
16 years ago, Pixar Animation Studios released the first feature length
computer animated film in history, Toy Story. What followed was an
incredible run of success, an 11 film hot streak that yielded dozens of
awards (including 11 Oscars), billions of dollars in box office
receipts, and the admiration of audiences and critics everywhere. Year
after year Pixar was a company you could rely on, and while not all the
films were perfect, they all were at least of decent quality, and light
years ahead of their competition from the likes of Dreamworks and Sony.
So therefore it's heart-breaking to say that Pixar's hot streak has
come to a crashing halt in 2011. Cars 2 is not just the weakest film in
Pixar's catalogue, it is the worst high-profile animated release for
some time.

If there is one Pixar film that divides opinion much more than any
other, it is 2006's Cars. While by no means a bad film, it just didn't
hit in the same way as films like Toy Story, Finding Nemo, or The
Incredibles. It did middling numbers at the box office (by Pixar
standards) and currently sits with a 74% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, the
only film from the studio below 90%. For director John Lasseter (also
head of Pixar), Cars is obviously a very personal film, a nostalgic
story about the loss small-town American values in the face of
increased modernity. If it's not a complete success, credit must be
given to Lasseter for at least trying to say something meaningful, and
in typical Pixar fashion the film stands out in the increasingly
crowded computer animation film market for at least attempting thematic
depth, and it's ability to reach audiences both young and old. Cars 2
on the other hand is completely devoid of depth and subtlety, and will
more than likely annoy adults while at times being arguably
inappropriate for children. Returning director Lasseter takes the worst
character from the first film (in my opinion the biggest reason for
Cars' failure), and structures the whole story around his infuriating
exploits. Imagine George Lucas, upon seeing the negative feedback
following The Phantom Menace, making all of Episode 2 about Jar-Jar
Binks. That's the kind of thing we're left with in Cars 2. Compounding
the story problems is the troubling amount of guns and violence in the
film. To make the argument that 'it's OK because they're just cars' is
inexcusable. This is still supposed to be a children's film, and while
the espionage sub-plot does have potential, there are elements that
seem shockingly unsuitable for young kids.

This brings up a question: why would Pixar choose to revisit the only
film they have produced which could conceivably be called a failure?
Lasseter is on record as saying that the company would only explore
sequels to their films if a good story could be developed, and the
level of quality of the two Toy Story sequels seems to back up this
sentiment, but it's hard to believe that anyone would think the script
of Cars 2 is worthy of that high standard. Interestingly, there is one
other way that Cars stands apart from other Pixar films: the estimated
$8 billion merchandising revenues. While all Pixar films have profited
from merchandising, none have had the global appeal of Cars. It's
upsetting to think that Pixar, a company who seemed previously to place
greater importance on the quality of its films than the bottom line,
have gone for the easy cash grab, but there really seems to be no other
reason for the existence of Cars 2. Everything about the films seems
designed to increase the potential for selling merchandise, whether
it's the films global locations which pander to international
audiences, or the increasingly ridiculous characters and set-pieces,
tailor made to be toys and video games. It's a cynical opinion, one
which I had hoped I'd never feel towards a Pixar film, but it is
undeniably true: Cars 2 is a film created not as an artistic endeavour,
but to feed ancillary markets.

Pixar's golden run had to end sometime, and one bad film is a small
price to pay for 11 good, with two or three being genuine masterpieces.
What is most unfortunate is the catastrophic level of Cars 2's failure,
and Pixar will undoubtedly lose a lot of respect for making such a
soulless film, unworthy of the studio's name.
<|_=00=_|>
We all know that Pixar makes incredible movies, I personally have never
disliked a Pixar film. The first "Cars" film, was a great movie, not a
perfect film. It was one of the least better films, Pixar has made, but
that's like saying, Insomnia was one of Christopher Nolan's worst
films. I had high expectations when coming to see the film, like I
always have before I see a Pixar film.

After my viewing of the film, I have to say Pixar never fails to
produce a great, entertaining film. Although it doesn't reach the
heights of Wall-E, Toy Story 3, etc. It still stands by itself pretty
high up there. The animation is extremely well done, the look of the
film is amazing. The voice actors are great, I miss Paul Newman though.
Although the film is not perfect. The movie is not perfect though, the
story is not great, but not bad, the movie does not have the emotional
as other Pixar films, but it is definitely not a heartless film. But
the film is definitely entertaining and a great beginning to 2011
Summer movie season. Take your whole family to see this movie, it will
probably not disappoint. It will not only satisfy kids, but also the
adults, this film is for everyone. Fun for kids, but the adults can
also connect with it and will have a great time watching this movie in
theaters. It is quite an adventure and I will be glad to give it a
second viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
We hoped it would never happen, but no one is perfect. Even the best
can stumble. This had to happen eventually. Even the string of terrific
Disney's classic films and the 90s Disney Renaissance didn't last
forever. I'm afraid that, yes, Pixar has made a bad film.

Cars 1 was their least ambitious film. The story was predictable and
character development obvious making it their most mediocre film. It
was good but it lacked that little extra touch that made their films
great. However, they had some great side characters, a heart, and
wonderful scenes that elevated it up beyond most other films. But ever
since this film's announcement I always wondered why. McQueen had his
story and there's not much else to tell. Like Finding Nemo, where else
is there to go? And I'd rather see sequels to better movies like The
Incredibles, even Bug's Life seems to have more potential. It's easy to
see why they made a sequel to it, since all you need to do is go to
Disneyland or any Disney Store and see it covered in McQueen and Mater,
which happened to be two my of three year-old cousin's first words. Off
all the Pixar films, Cars made the most with the merchandise.

The biggest problem is the story. Cars 1, while predictable, was
touching. Cars 2 has almost no heart or character development. The
focus shifts from McQueen to Mater. McQueen had his story in the first
and there's little to tell here. He has one character moment that's
essentially the same realization as the first film's. The problem with
Mater is that he's such a simple character. Everything about him is on
the surface for all to see. He's the same person throughout the movie,
with one predictable realization which goes no where, that he doesn't
warrant his own film. He's like Kronk from The Emperor's New Groove.
They're both terrific side characters but lack enough complexity for a
full story. And Larry the Cable Guy has always been better with the
other Blue Collar guys rather than on his own.

While Cars 1's highlight was its side characters, this movie almost
abandons them. They do nothing. McMissile is a moving plot device and
little more. Shiftwell is supposed to be a love interest but lacks any
interesting moments. The rest of Radiator Springs basically sit back
while McQueen and Mater have all the fun. Their stories and character
are pushed aside so Larry can have fun being Mater. Because of this,
there are almost no funny little side scenes where characters just have
fun being themselves. Instead, most of the humor is derived from seeing
Mater do silly things.

The look is impressive but not more than anything else Pixar's done.
With each movie, the studio has pushed the graphics into new levels.
Each movie has had some wow moment where audiences can't help but be
amazed by what they're seeing. There were times in Cars 1 when it
looked almost real. Cars 2 lacks any wow factor. One of the most
impressive sets, Tokyo, were already spoiled by the Tokyo Mater short.
This more than anything makes me wonder if Pixar was even trying to up
the ante or if they were just using what they had to make a movie a
year.

Spies and Cars seems to work well together. After all, any Bond or
Bourne film will easily demonstrate why the two go together. Indeed,
the opening scene on the drilling platform is easily the best with the
fast chase and cool gadgets. But they weren't able to properly combine
the racing and spy elements, almost as if you're watching two movies at
once. There's too much spy stuff for the racing to be interesting,
which becomes pointless against the overpowering and overly clich√©d spy
story. Perhaps Pixar should have set it as simply a spy movie set in
the Cars universe and had McQueen and his friends in cameos or as a
background story.

Another lousy spot is the music. Cars 1 had a terrific soundtrack with
excellent uses of popular songs like Life is a Highway and Route 66.
But there's not one memorable song or music cue in this movie.
Giacchino usually does terrific work like with The Incredibles,
Ratatouille, and Up. But he too fumbles the ball here. Perhaps he was
just uninspired by what he had to work with.

Cars is Lasseter's pet project. But I think he's too close to it. He's
got that Lucas Star Wars prequel trilogy problem. The people around him
either were in awe of the man who made Pixar and Toy Story or they were
afraid to hurt his feelings since he loves the Cars franchise so much.
Pixar efforts have been so well done because they were collaborative
efforts, each fixing each other's problems to make a better project.
But with Lasseter off working more directly with Disney, he really
should have had a co-director or perhaps given the reins to someone
else like he did with Toy Story 3.

I almost rated this movie higher. It is fun while you're watching it,
even if as soon as it's over it becomes too easy to pick apart the
problems. But this is Pixar. They've dominated the animation market
since Toy Story and have been pushing the boundaries at the Academy
Awards ever since. To see them stumble with a not-so-great film would
be one thing. But they're coming off from two Best Picture nominees to
a movie that's simply flashy but with little substance. Kids will love
the bright colors and silly antics, but parents will hate having to
then buy twelve new Mater toys. Cars 2 is stalled and in need of a
tune-up.
<|_=00=_|>
Espionage, assassinations, sabotage of renewable energy, propaganda,
corporate cover-ups, media manipulation and The Mob...

James Bond? Nope. Jason Bourne? Nope. 

Disney/Pixar's CARS 2. Wow. This movie wasn't at all what I was
expecting. In the second serving of Lightning McQueen and his pals,
they take their show to the international stage in a world championship
race-off sponsored by oil-alternative manufacturer, Allinol. But
turmoil behind the scenes pulls the gang into a world of spies, the
Mob, Big Oil, evil German scientists and hit men. Now they have to save
the world before it's too late. Oh, and they race too. The animation is
amazing. Water, large balloons, backgrounds during races...pay
attention because the quality of the graphics in this one are
world-class. There are some goofy, funny moments and some nice one-
liners for the older crowd. The themes of being true to yourself and
bonds of friendship run strong throughout this film but it's the
remainder of the message that worried me. There were non-stop put downs
throughout and some other questionable topics. I was beginning to
question the G rating when the villain ordered his henchmen to "kill"
several other cars. Thinking back to the innocence and the good spirit
of the first movie, I began to wonder how we got from there to here.
Adventures in racing take a back-seat to the more mature plot of an
espionage thriller. Looking around the theater, I could tell that kids
younger than 4 or 5 were beginning to get lost. Even my ten-year-old
had a hard time understanding the socio-political messages. On top of
all that, I'd be willing to bet that Cars 2 is a contender for most
guns, explosions and bullets fired in a G-Rated movie. This movie had
much more violence than the first one.

Aside from the appropriateness of the movie, it wasn't bad. All the
likable characters from the first movie were back with bigger roles
like 'Mater & Luigi and there were many new characters added that also
brought their own personalities into the mix. To me, this was an
espionage-thriller so the added bonus of some comedy made the movie
move right along at a good pace. 

It was engaging for me, I enjoyed it, but the entire time I couldn't
help but wonder why Disney/Pixar chose to tell this story through a
kids movie.
<|_=00=_|>
As an ardent fan of the first Cars, I was shocked at what an absolute
mess this movie is. I was prepared for a certain level of
disappointment from the trailers, but I didn't expect the sheer
second-rate train wreck that is this movie. All the heart of the first
film has been chucked out the window on the way to cashing in on
merchandising possibilities.

McQueen has been practically relegated to minor character status here
(one wonders why Owen Wilson even bothered showing up). Occasional
glimmers of clever humor are all but eclipsed by a rickety plot that
can't bear the weight of all it's trying to accomplish. Mater's hi-jinx
as the centerpiece of a ridiculous (and unfunny) spy plot go from
annoying to disturbing as the violence ratchets up. While several
critics have claimed this sequel is aimed at particularly young
audiences, no other children's movie you're likely to see in the near
future does more to glorify gun violence.

Pixar has sucked all the dimensionality out of every returning
character, and the new ones it's added are so one-dimensional as to be
nonexistent. This is a pathetic offering from a studio that should know
better.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm finding myself very disappointed by the generally critics about
"Cars 2", and I found the nucleus of the issue the fact that Pixar's
latest movies have had a very philosophical idea floating around
(Wall-e, Up, Toy Story 3) and the "Cars" franchise it's not about that.

Does "Ratatouille" have a philosophical script? I'm afraid not, "A Bugs
Life"? Sure not, But they accomplish another goal, they were made for
another approach, a different image and a different perception of the
movie.

Is Pixar a philosophy-related books maker? Is Pixar a adult-animations
producer? They're not, they're great storytelling guys (They found out
a way to link the whole world without making a "Around the World in 80
Days" film), they make the gorgeous 3D scenarios (I was astonished by
the great detail of London and Porto Corsa) and they develop almost
perfect characters (Who in the world will link as many cars parts with
body parts as Pixar did?) and most important, they bring entertainment
to the audience, and "Cars 2" fills all those gaps.

I'm afraid this is the result of what happens when someone (in this
case Pixar) develops a great reputation and suddenly they came up with
something different of what we are used to, and it became for some
people a "horrifying" creation.

I enjoyed "Cars 2" since the stressful opening scene until the happy
ending and I think is because I entered the theater hoping to have a
great time, fun and a visually amazing experience, and not hoping to
find the anthropological greatest creation, and that's exactly what I
got.
<|_=00=_|>
The best of Pixar's films have protagonists who are a small part of a
very large world and are almost helpless against incredible odds - Toy
Story, Wall-E, Finding Nemo etc. The protagonists of Cars are very big
in a very small world, so do not play to the strengths of Pixar.

However, being Pixar, they still make these films better than anyone
else would have with the same material. Cars and Cars 2 are
intelligently written and filled with more detail than you could
comfortably fit into a single screening.

This movie is not so much a sequel to the first as an affectionate
James Bond parody that happens to be set in the Cars universe. Whereas
the original Cars was thematically slow and patient, this one
deliberately takes things in the exact opposite direction. Whether
anyone will prefer the first film or the second is entirely their
preference, and it is wrong to say that one is better than the other.
Each film has its own appeals and drawbacks.

The main weakness of this film is a failure to create any kind of
sympathy for the characters. They are not alone, they are not lost,
they have friends and allies and the resources to get out of any
situation. It never feels like there is any real danger, as there is
with the Toy Story films. Whereas the first film had enough focus on
character development to compensate for this, the subplot about the
tested friendship between McQueen and Mater seems especially
insubstantial here.

Nevertheless, I feel like this is an enjoyable installment in the
franchise, never letting your attention wander and always ready with a
clever idea. They have demonstrated that they are willing to go in
entirely new directions with this world - maybe if they make a third
film, they can make something truly worthy of the Pixar name?

If I were rating this in comparison to other Pixar films, my score
would be lower... but scoring this as a film on its own, I think it is
deserving of between five and seven stars.
<|_=00=_|>
The saddest thing about Pixar today is, they don't know what movie they
are going to release on their 25th Anniversary since one of their
upcoming projects "Newt" was cancelled despite from Blue Sky's Rio
plot. Cars 2 feels like it's a direct-to-DVD film. It's not really bad
but it's just unnecessary. Though, the action is pretty cool. The kids
will enjoy it but the rest is like Rango. Instead of Western Themes,
it's Spy movies. The story isn't bad except it doesn't give anything
emotional and heartwarming unlike the other Pixar movies. Cars 2 is
pretty fun but the most important ingredient of their movies is
missing.

Firstly, the lead of the film is Mater. The theme of the film is
Espionage but it's just some sort of an animated version of a
particular spy movie. Everything moves here. There are too many action
that any kid can enjoy but the story is probably too interesting for
grown ups. If the movie gets focused to the plot, the kids might get
bored. The missing Pixar element here is the heartwarming moments. The
movie still has a heart but it fails to be compelling. Don't worry
about the humor, that is one thing they will never fail. Some of the
writing seems rushed.

The voices do what they do best. John Lasseter knows what to do in this
movie. The animation is obviously pretty good. The score is a bit
generic that you may hear in any movie or television show. The action
keeps everything moving. Watching the car fighting scenes is like
watching a kid playing his little toy cars and let them do something
fun. Which is pretty impressive.

In Pixar, the craftsmanship or the animation doesn't quite matter. It's
all about the compelling story and the emotional heartwarming moments.
It's hard to say Cars 2 is bad film. Pixar still knows how to make a
good movie but without their important elements, it's like you're
watching a movie from a different studio. Once again, it's pretty fun
but if you expect a lot of Pixar magic then you might get disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes you go to a Pixar movie and get a deeply insightful,
heart-tugging classic that sings to the deepest corners of the human
condition.

And sometimes you go to a Pixar movie for some uncomplicated fun and
adventure.

"Cars 2" is unapologetically the latter; it never reaches the emotional
depths of "Up" or "Toy Story 3", but it never tries to be. Instead,
this is a family-friendly action-packed adventure movie, the kind of
movie you watch because you just want to sit back and enjoy the
spectacle. Whether it's the gorgeous scenery, the breakneck chase
sequences, or Finn McMissile's never-ending arsenal of cool gadgets,
"Cars 2" is a movie that simply wants you to have fun as you follow
along with its whirlwind escapades.

Some might feel this is a disappointment from Pixar, but I think that's
being unfair -- after all, no one begrudges Steven Spielberg for
producing both "Schinder's List" and "Indiana Jones".

"Cars 2" isn't high art, but it never tries to be. Even the best
creators deserve to cut back and have fun once in a while.
<|_=00=_|>
I personally enjoyed the movie very much... It was full of action and
had the same old Pixar humor. The only things that critics said that
was seriously wrong with the movie was the fact that they build to much
on Mater's character... Mater's character in the first one provided
comic relief for the movie. In Cars 2, they made the comic relief the
main character. The entire movie was based around Mater and that is
what made it funny. But for some people there was to much of him and
not enough of the original Lightning McQueen. This is a valid point,
but it doesn't ruin the movie.. I would suggest watching it for sure!

JRT
