
This movie is a throwback to Hollywood's earlier days in the sense that
it's all about the story and the acting. There's not a special effect
to be seen.

The story is powerful. And the acting amazing. I had read the book and
listened to an audio version, so I knew what was going to happen, and I
was still moved. Djimon Honsou is terrific. 

If you are looking for a light, fun night at the cinema, Same Kind of
Different as Me is not your film. If you are looking for a memorable
movie with powerful acting, it is.
<|_=00=_|>
"We are all homeless, working our way home." Truly powerful insight
delivered remarkably well from an emotional and powerful film. I had no
idea going in that this was a true life story. I enjoyed the trailer
and took a flier on the cast. I'm extremely pleased that I did. 

All these Oscar nominees and winners brought their A-game and have
delivered one of the better movies of the entire year. I wouldn't even
classify this as a faith based film. In fact, Greg Kinnear's character
never seems to embrace any particular religious sentiment. It's a true
story of a woman's kindness and generous soul that is still
reverberating through many people's lives. Her simple philosophy of
feeding the homeless and SEEING them bares fruit in many ways. Her life
and by extension those who are carrying her torch are one's to admire
and even strive to emulate. 

Her (Renee Zellweger) story is told through the eyes of her art
dealer's husband (Greg Kinnear) and heavily involves a homeless person
(Djimon Hounsou) who we get to know as the film unfolds. Great racial
strife and emotional scenes of his life are seen through flashbacks.
Overall, all three character arcs are moving and fleshed out amazingly
well. It is a slow burn as the first act sets up very slowly. The
pacing improves and the journey experienced is worth the exposition.
While not a perfect movie (pacing issues, Hounsou's Denver character
shifts fast from crazy violent homeless man to wise sage, severe
marital problems glossed over quickly) it is a movie that will make you
think and even move you to tears.
<|_=00=_|>
At first, I thought, "Oh no, this is going to be a cheesy religious
movie of some kind" but I changed that thinking quickly. It turned out
to be extremely thought provoking on several levels. It made me want to
do more with my life, reach out to others, and be a better person.
Can't beat that for $5.50! I'm telling everyone I know that they should
see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Same Kind of Different as Me is a powerful character driven film.
Actor, Djimon Hounsou's excellent portrayal of Denver, a colored
homeless man who through divine intervention becomes friends with a
wealthy white couple, (played convincingly by Greg Kinnear and Renee
Zellweger) is flawless. The journey they're taken on changes them all
for the better.

The movie reminded me of some of the character driven classics made by
Frank Capra.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the true story of Deborah (Ren√©e Zellweger) and Ron Hall (Greg
Kinnear), a wealthy Texas couple who befriended a violent and
intimidating homeless man dubbed Suicide but named Denver (Djimon
Hounsou), this heartfelt tear-jerking retelling captures the essence if
not the full depth of the relationship that transformed these three,
the Hall's children and their community.

Central to the movie is Debbie's character, whose faith drives her to
forgive Ron's dalliance and involve him in her outreach work at the
Union Gospel Mission in Fort Worth. Through a dream, she sees a man
that will change the world; that man is manifested in Suicide, a large
homeless loner that swings a baseball bat at whomever he feels
threatened by at the mission. Debbie pushes a reluctant Ron to reach
out to Suicide; Ron learns Suicide's name is Denver, and his harrowing
background. The three of them steadily form a friendship and
relationship of trust that includes their children Regan (Olivia Holt)
and Carson (Austin Filson).

Unfortunately, as Denver predicts, because Debbie is making a positive
impact on the world for the Lord, she attracts of the attention of His
enemy, and is stricken with terminal cancer. However, she deals with
her illness most gracefully and there are some sweet family moments to
the end.

For fans of the book (like me), as is typically the case, there are
some significant differences between the book and this movie including
the focus of the title itself: the funeral speech draws a link between
Denver and Debbie whereas the book's title refers to the sameness
between Denver and Ron! Several important scenes have been altered
(e.g. Denver praying outside Debbie's hospital has been replaced with a
scene of the two of them sitting silently tearful on a bench) or cut
(Denver doesn't drive Regan cross country) and Ron's entire background
has been left out (though it's alluded to through the retrospective
plot device of his writing the book) while an alternative storyline
with his father Earl (Jon Voight) has been inserted (as a proxy for
Denver's care of Mr. Ballantine?).

That being said, I'm still recommending the movie as the book's
essential themes of love - and how that is manifested in outreach to
the poor, forgiveness and hope are still intact.

The closing credits indicate that this was a 2016 production; the movie
was originally slated for release in April, 2016, which was then pushed
to February, 2017 before it was finally released on October 20, 2017.
Besides the shift from Paramount Pictures to Pure Flix Entertainment
for distribution, there may also have been other changes (reshoots and
reediting?) that account for these delays.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw "Same Kind of Different as Me", today, and found it to be a movie
with much food for thought. I knew nothing of its background, nor that
it came from a best-selling novel that was true. Few movies, this year,
have had much substance, so this one was a pleasant surprise. The
acting was quite good. Djimon Honsou is a new actor to me, and I found
him to be quite touching in his role as a homeless man.
<|_=00=_|>
That this movie has not received the publicity and advanced advertising
that it truly deserves is shameful -- the producers and production
studio should be ashamed of themselves and they will reap their due
reward from low attendance and most likely box office profit loss. This
film definitely is worth its proverbial weight (cost) in gold. First
and foremost is the plot itself, which propels the human instinct of
avoidance of the uncomfortable, as with dirty homeless people, to a
higher plane of reaching out, in caring rather than invasive ways, in
order to actually help those less fortunate despite their social
handicaps. That there is a Christian spirit about this movie is without
doubt, but there is no specific religious dogma or theology. There is
no "action", there is no graphic violence, there is no nudity, there is
no profanity -- how completely refreshing in a movie. It is all
character and dialog driven -- the acting is absolutely top notch, the
dialog thoughtful and smart. The theme: reconciliation in all of our
weakened or seemingly broken relationships if possible, with the onus
being on ourselves to make the effort, in other words doing what we can
to heal ourselves, and then being able to effectively, meaningfully
reach out to and help those less fortunate, with respect rather than
pity. This movie is a true treasure which, sadly I fear, will be missed
by a very large audience due to lack of effective promotion.
<|_=00=_|>
The title of this movie ("Same kind of different as me") is what
attracted my attention and curiosity to watch it. I was amazed and
quite impressed with this movie. Before watching it, I did not know
that it was based on a real-life story, or that a book had been written
featuring this true story. I do not care how similar or different the
plot of this film is from the book, because as a movie, I loved it a
lot.

The basic story revolves around a Texas couple, Deborah (Renee
Zellweger) and her husband Ron (Greg Kinnear) who attempt to help
homeless people. One night, Deborah sees a dream about a man who will
make a special impact on his community, and / or the world ; that man
turns out to be Denver (Djimon). Initially, Denver seems to have
developed an image of a violent man who will attack anyone who he
classifies as a threat ; but, as the movie progresses and as the couple
befriend him, he reveals his entire story to them (and to viewers). The
plot progresses in a " poetic style " and ultimately reaches its
inevitable climax.

This movie is very timely and relevant, because life today has become
very materialism-driven. This rare gem film attempts to teach everyone
that we all should help each other, when required. Humanity,
brotherhood, and love must be placed first on everyone's priority list.
Regardless of the fact whether you are a businessman, politician,
model, or a regular worker - if you can help someone, then do it. This
is the main theme of this magnificent movie.

The acting is outstanding, and the direction is commendable. I would
love to become a story-screenplay writer for movies because intriguing
stories develop in my mind all the time. Employers can contact me at
svhot34@gmail.com
<|_=00=_|>
Even though I'm not attracted to most Christian films, I really
appreciated the quality of the story, casting, acting and shooting on
this film and I'd love to see more like it. So often, our largest and
closest movie theater can go for weeks without one movie worth seeing.
Kudos to Pure Flix for their work on this ... and blessings on your
future efforts to do similarly.
<|_=00=_|>
We were excited to see this film. We like almost any film that is
"based on a true story". We especially like the "follow up" that comes
at the end of such movies. "Same Kind" was not a disappointment on
either front. It was powerful. It was deep. It was very dramatic. It
was an eye-opener. I think I spent the last 30 minutes with tears in my
eyes--but good tears. Would highly recommend this as a "must see"
movie.
