
Billy Taggart (Mark Wahlberg) is a New York city cop who got off on a
technicality following his execution of a supposed rapist/murder.
Discharged from the force by his Captain (Jeffrey Wright), Taggart is
viewed highly by Mayor Hostetler (Russell Crowe) for taking out the
trash with a common thug. Seven years later, Hostetler, amidst a re-
election battle against golden boy city councilman Jack Valliant (Barry
Pepper), hires Taggart to find out who is sleeping with his gorgeous
wife (Catherine Zeta-Jones). As Taggart follows, he uncovers a much
larger conspiracy. 

In his first solo outing, Allen Hughes (one half of the Hughes brothers
that brought us "The Book of Eli") now offers a stylish, dark vision of
corruption in New York. The ladies are beautiful and all have something
to hide, the men are violent and vicious and the story is ripped out of
countless true-to-life headlines. "Broken City" lives up to its name
and fires a slug packed with intrigue and intelligence. That doesn't
necessarily translate to mean "clever". 

The story sold in the trailer is a bit misleading, but perhaps that's
the point. Mayor Hostetler's hiring of the true-blue cop Taggart is
only a minor segment of a much larger puzzle. It involves cops,
businessmen, and politicians in bribery and exploitation with a prize
that all but Billy seem to seek: power. Overall that is the film's
theme and it more than adequately conveys it. If you understand that
and aren't looking for much else, "Broken City" is your ticket. 

As I was watching the film I kept thinking that there must have been
some significant cutting and re-editing. Perhaps the original cut was
too dry so they added in some scenes and cut some to make the film seem
more edgy. But it doesn't seem as edgy as it could have been. A number
of subplots (for instance Billy's actress girlfriend, or the
undeveloped father-son relationship between two of the villains) go
nowhere and remain unresolved when the screen goes black. I felt much
the same way.

Mark Wahlberg does an excellent job playing Mark Wahlberg, a role he
was born to play. Catherine Zeta-Jones is as beautiful and commanding
as ever in a role that is too short for the movie. But it is Russell
Crowe who devours his scenes with the political intensity I would
suppose is necessary for any real Mayor of New York. Even as the script
built around Billy lags, Crowe tears apart his role. He shows why he is
truly one of the best actors in the business. 

The supporting cast of this film are as much a draw as the leads.
Jeffrey Wright, the usual supporting character with more power than he
lets on, plays the secretive Police Commissioner. His character is
introduced as a stock role but ends up being much more. Kyle Chandler
has a small role that deserved to be expanded. Barry Pepper, who wasn't
even featured in the trailer, is the only actor in the film with the
same bravado as Crowe. His scenes, particularly one with Wright and
Wahlberg, are indicative of why he should be the one on the poster, now
buried in the bottom credits. 

Overall "Broken City" kept my attention but left me hungry for more. I
suppose that is all you can ask for at the movies. I would take this
ride again.
<|_=00=_|>
I give this a five for the cast, but a two for the obtuse and
predictable script, which inexplicably appeared on the Black List of
best unproduced scripts -- in which category it should have remained.
In development hell for years, it should at the very least have
undergone a major rewrite to simplify the story (which wanders all over
the place and becomes dumber by the minute) and raised the tone up out
of the gutter. Whichever studio execs placed this on the Black List
need to stop sniggering over the dirty words and earn their money by
figuring out just what constitutes a good script. Wahlberg is always a
pleasure to spend time with but the phoniness of so many of the scenes
and the clunkiest car chase ever defeat even his efforts to entertain.
So much of this movie is predictable and so many scenes are actors
simply going through their paces with inferior material. The gorgeous,
gorgeous Catherine Zeta Jones is totally wasted in this piece of dreck.
Somewhere in this movie there may originally have been a good idea
about corruption in the city. Unfortunately nobody appears to have had
the courage to grab it by the throat, beat it into shape and present it
to the public with any wit, style or originality. Like it says in the
header, this is painting by numbers.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all whats with the title of the movie? its catchy but hardly
bears any relevance to the story. The plot and the screenplay are just
good for a detective show on the television. Even when it tries to pack
some thrill, the plot is so obvious that you can almost make out what
has really happened. performances from Wahlberg and Crowe are decent
although we have seen better from them. Catherine zeta Jones is
absolutely wasted. when you watch the movie, you get a feel that you
have seen this before as there's hardly anything new to offer. overall
watchable once you start watching it but why should you in the first
place? give it a miss. you wont miss nothing.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie that is much less than the sum of its parts. Good cast,
good director, both completely undermined by a Godawful script. I sat
through the whole thing hoping it would get better, even though it
revealed its awfulness within the first ten or fifteen minutes, but no
such luck ... it just descended into further levels of horrible until
it finally fizzled out with a whimper.

The plot is a mishmash of elements from other, superior movies -- cop
with a vigilante bent, corrupt mayor, blackmail, plucky Girl Friday,
double-crosses, incriminating documents being shredded, blah blah blah
- - with extra subplots (girlfriend seduced by showbiz, father-son
conflict, gay marriage) thrown in for good measure, except they don't
advance the story or humanize the characters one bit. The script is
full of expository dialog (most irritating rookie-screenwriter habit
ever), improbable twists, clunky edits and plot holes you could park a
semi truck in. 

This one might be worth seeing on DVD, especially if you can make up a
good drinking game to go along with it -- take a shot for every plot
hole, perhaps? Or every slip of Russell Crowe's questionably-Queensy
accent?
<|_=00=_|>
The quality of a corruption-themed political thriller with a
star-studded cast always comes down to one thing  the script. Mark
Wahlberg, Russell Crowe, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Barry Pepper, Kyle
Chandler and Jeffrey Wright definitely qualify "Broken City" for that
category of film, and so all eyes are on rookie screenwriter Brian
Tucker.

Billy Taggart (Wahlberg) is a New York City police detective acquitted
of killing a man who got off on a rape and murder charge. The mayor
(Crowe) and commissioner (Wright) know a bit more, however, and require
Taggart to step down. Seven years later, Taggart is a private
investigator owed a lot of money that he hasn't seen, so when the mayor
comes calling weeks before election day and asks him to find out who
his wife is sleeping with, he quickly agrees. But when he completes the
job he finds he's been double-crossed and set up as an accomplice to
murder.

The plot is most definitely neo-noir, but the direction of Allen Hughes
(one half of the Hughes brothers, the duo behind "The Book of Eli" and
"From Hell") provides it with none of that style or class. But visual
flare becomes irrelevant when your audience is too preoccupied with
making sense of a convoluted plot. 

Tucker weaves an intriguing network of deception that keeps you from
trusting any character in the movie, including even Taggart, but there
are too many pieces, including barely introduced characters, that
comprise the hidden truth in the story. Consequently, the film relies
on heavy- handed dialogue and formula way more often that it should.
Tucker tries to make it so every component of the film connects in some
way, yet to do so he falls back on clichés. 

A lot of the dialogue is also steered toward set-ups for sharp
one-liners. These veteran actors know how to work lines of this
contrived nature, but because the rest of this film doesn't do its job,
these quotes elicit chuckles more than satisfied smirks.

Of all the talents, Crowe gives the film's best performance as the
shadowy Nick Hostetler, who despite preferring to keep his own hands
clean, comes off as though at any moment he might roll his sleeves up
and punish someone. Considering the trailer casts him as the bad guy,
it's impressive that you'll like him for as much of the run time as you
do. 

The script attempts to paint Taggart as a complex main character of
moral ambiguity, but he just sort of drifts in and out of likability
instead. Few actors do the "man on a mission" better than Wahlberg
does, but Taggart is saddled with a penchant for violence that crops up
sporadically and he's also a recovering alcoholic. And that's in
addition to his past transgressions.

The conflict plays over a mayoral race between Hostetler and Jack
Valliant (Barry Pepper), which gets a lot of play despite factoring
minimally into the main narrative. It's part of the many cogs necessary
to make the plot function, but it mostly results in the spouting of
political rhetoric that just makes the story all the murkier. 

"Broken City" works reasonably well in individual pieces and scenes,
but as part of the master plan, they're drawn together almost
haphazardly, with some crucial details cutting across the screen in the
blink of an eye. Even so, the resolution all comes down to some really
simple and even cliché plot devices. There are no late twists or
revelations that really turn the tide; the biggest one gets nullified
almost instantly.

Any film can flash some big names and load up on reputable faces, but
in this genre, script is king. Hughes is practically invisible as a
director, so Tucker's work is exposed all the more. Some strong acting
really bolsters the film's strengths, but it only goes as high as the
structure it's built upon, and that structure has enough kinks that
"Broken City" only delivers marginal satisfaction.

~Steven C

Thanks for reading! Visit moviemusereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
In New York City, detective Billy Taggart (Mark Wahlberg) goes to court
for the murder of the rapist Mikey Tavarez (Luis Tolentino), but the
Mayor Nicholas Hostetler (Russell Crowe) and the Chief of Police Carl
Fairbanks (Jeffrey Wright) vanish with an important evidence and Billy
is declared non-guilty by the judge but he leaves the police
department. 

Seven years later, Billy is a private detective that lives his
girlfriend Natalie Barrow (Natalie Martinez), who is an aspirant
actress and the sister of Mikey's victim. His secretary Katy Bradshaw
(Alona Tal) is trying to collect part of the debts to save their
business. 

In the week of the elections, Hostetler summons Billy and offers US$
50,000 to investigate his wife Cathleen Hostetler (Catherine
Zeta-Jones) that he believes is having a love affair. Billy discovers
that Cathleen is meeting Paul Andrews (Kyle Chandler), who is the
coordinator of the campaign of Jack Valliant (Barry Pepper), the
opponent of Hostetler and favorite in the election. When Paul is found
dead on the street, Billy finds that he had been double-crossed by
Hostetler and he decides to investigate the truth behind Paul's murder. 

"Broken City" is a great political thriller about a situation that
certainly happens in big cities. Mayor Hostetler is evicting people
from a residence building and selling the real estate for an underrated
value. In Rio, there are mysterious interests from the Powers That Be
that change the construction code allowing tall buildings at the
seaside streets; or destroy a velodrome and a car racing track in a
valuable real estate and intending to construct another in a mined area
that belongs to the Brazilian army; or valorize the harbor area with
questionable constructions. Unfortunately only in fiction majors are
investigated and arrested. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Linha de Ação" ("Action Line")
<|_=00=_|>
Broken City (2013)

*** (out of 4)

Entertaining but very flawed political thriller about a private eye
(Mark Wahlberg) who was thrown off the NYC police force but gets a
major job when the Mayor (Russell Crowe) asks him to find out who his
wife (Catherine Zeta-Jones) is messing around with. This case is rather
easy for the man but soon he realizes that this is just the start of
dirty business. BROKEN CITY, as a thriller, really doesn't work because
the plot is rather silly. It's especially silly if you start to think
about it too long and that's why it's best to just walk into the
theater, turn your brain off and enjoy the excellent cast that's
offered up here. It's always amazing to see how many great actors they
can get for less-than-stellar material but the three leads are
excellent as are Jeffrey Wright, Barry Pepper and Alona Tal. The
performances are certainly the reason to check this film out as they
help keep the film moving along no matter how many twists and turns get
thrown at us. Wahlberg is once again a lot of fun playing the tough guy
and has no problem with this. Crowe appears to be having fun with the
less than serious role and Zeta-Jones gets a couple nice scenes along
the way. I thought Pepper is the one who really stood out playing the
man going up against Crowe's character in the upcoming election. Tal
was also a breathe of fresh air when she's on screen. An almost
unrecognizable Griffin Dunne also plays a supporting part. Director
Allen Hughes does a nice job at keeping the film moving at a nice pace
but there's still no question that the material just isn't all that
strong. I'm not sure if there were countless re-writes or not but the
screenplay pretty much hits on every cliché that this lower-quality
political thrillers do. The twists and turns aren't all that shocking
and neither is the ending. Still, BROKEN CITY remains enjoyable thanks
to the cast.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. The best Political crime dramas are
complex films with multiple intersecting sub-plots, filled with stylish
mis-direction and intense wordplay and back-stabbing between good guys
and bad. What doesn't work is obvious. Especially obvious to the point
where the audience is way ahead of the earnest, but clumsy protagonist.
Luckily for director Allen Hughes (working solo without his brother
Albert for the first time), he has stacked the film with a wonderful
cast which makes it somewhat entertaining despite its major flaws.

Mark Wahlberg plays (what else?) a streetwise guy/cop/detective who
tries to do the right thing but always seems to end up with the short
straw. Russell Crowe is in fine form as the megalomaniac NYC mayor who
plays dirty, but knows how to sell his stuff to the people ... even as
he schemes to do great wrong. Their paths cross twice and neither time
turns out so great for Wahlberg.

As for the rest of the cast, Barry Pepper is miscast as Crowe's mayoral
opponent; Jeffrey Wright is intriguing as the Police Commissioner
seemingly playing both sides against the middle; Catherine Zeta-Jones
is Crowe's most unhappy and disloyal wife; Kyle Chandler plays Pepper's
campaign manager (and evidently more); and Griffin Dunne is a rich
Crowe supporter and knee deep in the evil scheme. Also interesting is
Alona Tai as Wahlberg's wise-cracking assistant.

While no details will be spilled here, there is a fun exchange during
the debate between Crowe and Pepper, and well, the movie is just at its
best when Crowe is on screen. Wahlberg's character is pretty much the
same he has played a dozen times prior, but it seems the real issue is
with first time screenwriter Brian Tucker. He is just overrun with
ideas and because of that, most go undeveloped. A script clean-up from
a screen veteran could have turned this one around. Still, if you have
seen all the Oscar nominated films and are looking for a watchable
January release, you could do worse. Just try not to think too much!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a ridiculous mess . The script was awful , made no sense
, left plot lines hanging. Horrible waste of actors I like. That being
said, only Crowe made an effort in this stupid movie and it wasn't very
much of an effort . Walhberg is an alcoholic who stopped drinking 7
years ago , he breaks with his wife--with absolutely no groundwork laid
for this breakup , they seemed very much in love until the breakup, and
he just starts drinking. No one says anything about it , he handles the
alcohol fine , and we never see the wife again and she doesn't seem to
entire Walhberg's mind. It's so stupid that I can't even go into all
the things that don't make any sense. Just save your money and see
something else , this will just make you mad.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a mess. It's an entertaining mess but a mess nonetheless.
Besides taking no time to introduce or make us care about any of the
characters, the overall plot and concept are simply ludicrous and
that's putting it mildly. What transpires a week leading to the
election for mayor of New York is so outrageous and nonsensical that it
deflates this movie right to its core. Character actions make no sense
at all and the movie tries to turn on a dime in a few places to seem
clever or deliver some sort of arc but it all plays out as lazy writing
and development.

SPOILER: The mayor's wife Cathleen Hostetler (Catherine Zeta-Jones) is
written the worst of all and when you think about it, her involvement
and the motivation of others to include her makes no sense at all. It's
not a plot hole, it's just too silly for reality or for entertainment
in this case. You have to have a plot that makes sense in the first
place for there to have plot holes or flaws. Crowe phoned in the bad
guy mayor role because I believe that he had to. There's nothing there
to work with as an actor, even one as good as Russell.

Overall, the writing and character beats are atrocious just like
Wahlberg's last early year release Contraband.
