
How many millions of dollars went into this which could have been used
better in some other venture? Sour premise of a dope-smoking,
opportunistic junior high school teacher who skates through her job,
looking for a way to fund her breast augmentation job so she can land a
rich boyfriend. Ends up committing several felonies & getting a stuffy
but honest co-worker blamed for everything (including drug use on
school grounds) while she wins the day. The redemption is her hooking
up with an angry gym teacher when he proves the affluent guy she's
sharking for is a shallow imbecile.

Now, I'm not the sort of person who demands a moral message in every
piece of cinema, but really? Who is the target audience here? To whom
are the filmmakers attempting to appeal? This is just vile.
<|_=00=_|>
I know others will disagree with me, but this has got to be in the
running for the pick for the Razzies this year. What a pathetic piece
of crap. The storyline was boring and the jokes either over-the-top,
or, worst, not even close to funny. It never fails to amaze me when
really bad ideas not only get to be screenplays, but they actually wind
up getting produced. And...Timberlake's character...what was he
thinking when he took this role??? Yeah, Diaz is still a hot body and
all, but even that couldn't save something so downright dumb. I won't
bother with any spoilers; it's not worth the effort. Save your money.
This one will simply insult your intelligence. I would give it a minus
one if I could.
<|_=00=_|>
Bad Teacher is a great concept that resulted in a style of humor like
most of the Adult Swim cartoons you see today: When the jokes hit they
hit well, but when they miss, they miss quite badly. The cast was
delightful, but could only go so far with the material. As a matter of
fact, it was the cast that saved the movie from being a total disaster
by providing their comedic chops, their charm, and their good comic
timing that you don't see enough of nowadays. Despite all that however,
Bad teacher is a shiny apple with a few rotten parts.

Elizabeth Hasley (Cameron Diaz) is a foul-mouthed, bitter, and quite
nasty teacher that is keeping the job only to pay the bills after her
rich fianc√©e dumps her. Facing debt, aging, and loneliness, Elizabeth
starts setting her sights on a boob job and on a new (rich) teacher
(Justin Timberlake), whom has also captured the attention of a
manipulative rival (Lucy Punch). The script was helmed by two veteran
writers of The Office (Gene Stupnitsky, Lee Eisenberg) as they use
their non-television ratings boundaries to mix plenty of vulgar and
raunchy humor with even some tidbits of cruel humor. Unfortunately,
their lack of boundaries led to a mediocre script.

This film's biggest falters come in the form of the script. Despite the
promise in the premise and the cast involved, the script was
convoluted, and didn't have much structure until the second half. As a
matter of fact, the film switches up the pace very unexpectedly when
the next act approaches. Pretty much almost all the crude and vulgar
humor failed to draw laughs, with one notable exception involving one
of the odder "sex" scenes in recent memory. The movie was a great idea
not exactly explored upon, and was full of smaller ideas that were not
utilized. Many good smaller characters did not get enough time in the
script; most notably the students, the gym teacher (Jason Segal) and
the main character's roommate (Erik Stonestreet).

Despite the writing being a fickle mess, the cast was superb, from the
small roles to the big ones. Cameron Diaz I can honestly say is one of
the most underrated talents in Hollywood, because she rarely ever
delivers a mediocre or weak performance. She has this aura, this energy
that can save the worst of films (See: What Happens in Vegas) and it is
no different here. Despite her
smoking/drinking/vulgar/manipulative/cynical/cruel/superficial ways, we
still secretly root for her to succeed in reaching her goal. Very few
actresses can pull off this type of charm.

Lucy Punch, despite having a bit of questionable material, delivers as
Diaz's rival. Jason Segal could have helped the movie a lot more if he
was in it more often, as he delivered the laughs every time he was
on-screen with his wit, sarcasm, and I-don't-care attitude. Television
staples Phyllis Smith and Erik Stonestreet were hilarious in the
far-too-few moments they were on-screen. The movie does indeed have its
laughs, but the potential was so much greater considering all the
talented actors involved.

Jake Kasdan as a director doesn't have much of a resume, but he does
have the comedic chops and timing, and he proved this with the
underrated Walk Hard. With Bad Teacher, he did not have as much good
material to work with but could have still helped the movie if he had
tightened the first third of the movie better. There was a lot more
unnecessary fluff in the first half of the movie compared to the second
half. Smaller plot lines were never resolved, certain jokes literally
fell off without a punchline, and certain situations were brought up
but never explored. Many concepts were also never explored: especially
that of how shallow and shady we all become towards each other in the
workforce.

Bottom Line: Bad Teacher was a great idea, poorly executed, but
relentlessly saved by the energetic cast. This movie could have mixed
the dark charm of Bad Santa with the subtle workforce ridiculousness
humor of Office Space to become something very, very special. But
neither style of humor was dwelled upon deep enough. The first half had
its laughs, but was far too convoluted and was salvaged mainly because
of the hilarity of Cameron Diaz. The movie definitely picks up later,
but by then its too late, the potential was wasted. Either way, you
will certainly laugh, you will remain entertained, but will also be
bothered by what it could have been.
<|_=00=_|>
Bad Teacher is funny in ways it shouldn't be. Cameron Diaz owns the
role of Elizabeth as the foul-mouthed, pot smoking, trashy blonde
teacher with a twisted outlook on life. Obscenities and bizarre sexual
innuendo roll off her tongue perfectly. Justin Timberlake is hilarious
and awkward as Scott. His character is complex and....well he's just
awkward....there's no other way to describe it. Lucy Punch is the
perfect counterpart to both Diaz and Timberlake's characters as Amy
Squirrel. Her over-the-top performance is one you will remember. Jason
Segel steals every scene he's in as Russell the equally foul mouthed
and dirty gym teacher. Phyllis Smith is an adorable and strange
addition to the movie as the confused Lynn Davis, bringing her own
brand of corkiness to the plot. All in all, the casting of Bad Teacher
is flawless and is really where the movie shines. The punchlines are
delivered with punch and the characters are decently developed and
complex in their own ways. 

There are some setbacks to Bad Teacher which stop it from being a great
comedy. The plot devices used to move the story along are unconvincing
and overplayed. Character transformations are equally unconvincing,
uninspired, and rushed. Some scenes feel forced for the sake of cheap
laughs or shock value. None of it though is shocking enough for this to
be an effective method of comedy. Sometimes the characters feel a bit
too weird even for the universe of strange the movie sets early on.
Jason Segel's Russell is the most interesting character in the movie
and yet for some reason is greatly underused. He pops up in pointless
scenes simply to interject a laugh and then disappears for long
stretches of time. 

Bad Teacher is a funny movie. The critics have not been so generous
with their reviews, but who listens to them anymore anyways? If you are
into dark comedies or a raunchy brand of humor, you will find yourself
laughing with this one. While the plot devices are forced and some of
the humor could have been better with a more subtle approach, overall
this is a decent flick to chill out on the couch and laugh with. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
What was the point of this movie? Cameron Diaz has been in some great
stuff. Why would she humiliate herself with this pathetic script?
Perhaps she liked the idea of showing off her body for an hour and a
half. Because she is exceptionally hammy here in that respect. 

Every single character in this movie is unlikeable, with perhaps the
exception of the school superintendent, who occupies about three
minutes of screen time. Diaz plays an obnoxious character who uses and
abuses others, children foremost among them. Jason Timberlake starts
out being a refreshing contrast to Diaz, but after awhile he's as
unpleasant as all the rest.

The plot is exceptionally poorly constructed. We're supposed to care
about how a psychopath drums up the $9,000 necessary for breast
implants? Admittedly, I'm older than the target audience of this film.
I admit I felt a bit of justice when the acne-faced teacher (unfunnily
named Squirrel) caught Diaz at her game. But the plot disappoints again
when Diaz out-cons everyone anew. The unlikely ending seems as if it
were slapped on because the writer couldn't think of any other way to
release the audience from its misery. 

This movie is pure detritus and I'm really sorry my family wasted
$38.50 (including food) to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's face it, the reason many people call Bad Teacher the "worst movie
ever shot" is not rational, it doesn't have to do with the movie itself
in any way. From the reviews I have read on here the main problem seems
to be the moral values in this film leading many "oh so shocked"
viewers to give bad reviews, question people's sanity for producing
this movie and hate everything about it - whether they admit it's the
reason they dislike it or pretend to hate everything about an
objectively well crafted film. But this movie is not supposed to teach
anyone life lessons, it's not supposed to have some big, moral message
about how to live your life in a good way. This is a film for adults.
And films for adults do not have to follow certain morals because an
adult is expected to judge morals on their own without needing
guidelines. An adult can enjoy movies with main characters doing things
they would never find acceptable because it's not about agreeing with
the character's actions.

Normally, I would rate this film 6 stars, but I rated it 8 to keep some
of the irrational reviews on here from bringing the score down too far.
It has solid jokes, a mostly good cast, OK direction but also some
really bad moments and the main character goes completely out of
character towards the end to achieve the usual Hollywood "we need a
kiss! FAST!!!" Happy Ending, but overall a good comedy I would watch
again with a great performance from Cameron Diaz.
<|_=00=_|>
Am reviewing this to counter-balance the far too many negative reviews
out there. This is a funny, not hilarious, but funny and sometimes
cruel film about a bad teacher, who is funny because she is bad. Just
like bad santa she isn't being held up an examplar for teaching or a
role-model for young women (actually I'm not too sure about that). What
she is is an anti-dote to the righteous, touchy-feely, moralising
lesson preaching,heart-in-the-right-place films that normally dominate
this genre, or at least do whenever there is a female in the lead. God
knows the world would suffer if every film was like this, but a little
bit of gentle cynicism is good thing in a world that is full of
fraudulent fictional xmas cheer. Spoiler: As for the sensitive little
boy not getting the girl, isn't about time that movies stopped lying to
teenage boys that being nice & sensitive will get you laid.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to watch this movie because I got the impression that it could
be a new kind of "High School Rock" or something similar. Simply a
"bad" teacher who discovers that she really wants to do something good
for her students and actually helps them in getting good grades and
self-esteem. But unfortunately, there is NOTHING of that in that movie!

I don't even know how to begin my review of how bad this movie is. The
only good thing about it is the cast: Cameron Diaz, Justin Timberlake,
Jason Segal, Lucy Punch, Phyllis Smith... This movie almost SCREAMS for
wanting to be a big funny comedy! The cast, including Diaz, is doing an
amazing job fitting their roles. Especially Timberlake, who is showing
a rather odd kind of roll as the hot hipster new age idiot. But
nonetheless, all their effort doesn't save this movie from falling on
its knees. 

Because this movie gets nothing right. The jokes are harsh, nasty,
dirty and political incorrect. Some may find them interesting and funny
because of that fact. I just find them typically MTV-generation bad.
The story and the pace in which the film develops are horrible too! It
starts out by introducing how "bad" of a teacher Diaz is. She clearly
shows that she has no interest in her students and their future, lets
them watch only movies each day and forces them to do national tests
without them having learned anything. And when the students fail (of
course), she yells and threatens them to do a better job. And what's
more, because threats don't work either, she lets them stand in line at
the gymnasium and throws basketballs at each kids face if the kid
doesn't answer correctly to one of her questions. Seriously?? What is
this movie telling us? That the education system in the US is messed up
or that you can teach students better with corporal punishment? All
that attitude is so unrealistic, you wonder how she got her teachers'
license in the first place.

But sadly, Diaz is never getting away from her attitude. She is never
really growing or changing in that movie. She sleeps, drinks, smokes,
steals, takes drugs, is violent, cynical, lies and betrays all people
around her. And gets always away with it. Right from the beginning of
the movie until the end. What's worse, she even gets a colleague of
hers to be forced to move to another school AND gets the guy in the end
who was chasing her through the movie the entire time. Wonder what he
sees in her?

There are only two scenes in the movie where you think that Diaz
finally will change, or at least show her "real" nice self. The first
one is when she is smoking pod in her car and one of her students is
giving her home baked cookies. For the brink of a second, Diaz is
softening up and gives her student the advice to loosen up a little
("stop acting like you're racing for congress"). But she immediately
finishes with "You're hopeless, kid." The other scene is after one of
the boys in her class openly confesses his love to his crush, gets
rejected and runs away in his misery. Diaz chases him, and when they
finally sit down to talk about what happened, she repeats herself: "I
told you so many times, a guy like you will NEVER get a girl like her.
Take that ugly hat off your face!"

I became so frustrated by those small moments when it seems like Diaz
finally will show us her nice self, only to prove once more what kind
of a sad and mean psycho she really is. This movie gives you nothing
and is not rewarding to watch in any way. You will get no interesting
story, no plot twists, no philosophical depth, no moral message, no
happy ending. It's really one of these movies where you have to ask
yourself how the script got past the producing rights in the first
place. I can simply not recommend this movie to anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
The gold digger Elizabeth Halsey (Cameron Diaz) quits her job as a
teacher at the JAM High School expecting to marry her wealthy fianc√©.
However, he calls off their engagement and Elizabeth returns to the
school. 

Elizabeth is reckless, incompetent, pothead and does not give any
attention to the students and her coworkers, and she shows movies to
her students along the classes. The envious teacher Amy Squirrel (Lucy
Punch) hates Elizabeth and they are estranged to each other. 

When Elizabeth meets the substitute teacher Scott Delacorte (Justin
Timberlake), she discovers that he is very rich and she flirts with
him. Further, she learns that Scott likes big breasts and she decides
to have a surgery of silicone-implant. She needs to raise US$ 10,000.00
for the breast-implant, and she learns that the teacher that gets the
best scores in the state exam would receive US$ 5,700.00 bonus.
Elizabeth changes her attitude and teaches her students to prepare them
for the exams. However, Elizabeth uses an unethical means to win the
competition and Amy seeks evidences to prove that Elizabeth has cheated
the exams.

"Bad Teacher" is a politically incorrect, brainless but very hilarious
film. Cameron Diaz performs the most awful teacher of cinema history,
the opposite of Sidney Poitier in "To Sir with Love"; Edward James
Olmos in "Stand and Deliver" or Michelle Pfeiffer in "Dangerous Minds".
Elizabeth Halsey is a slut, pothead, reckless, gold digger, corrupter,
cheater, blackmailer and everything that is not good. But I Laughed a
lot with this forgettable film. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Professora sem Classe" ("Teacher without Class")
<|_=00=_|>
First Santa, now a middle school teacher. I feel as if we're on the
verge of a new trend of bad *insert occupation here*. Bad toll booth
operators, bad samurai deli clerks¬Öwhere will it end? Anyway, this is
the latest from comedy director Jake Kasdan (WALK HARD) and a decently
funny movie with some great moments but finds a major problem in its
main character. 2011 hasn't been super strong with comedies; there have
been some real good ones (BRIDESMAIDS) but most of them have been
pretty forgettable (PAUL). This movie is pretty funny but it still ends
on the low end of the spectrum. Cameron Diaz is Elizabeth Halsey, a
gold-digging narcissist who has somehow made a career of being a middle
school teacher. She believes she's found her way out with a rich fianc√©
to tend to her every need, but it falls apart when he finally realizes
she's using him. Elizabeth is forced to return to her teaching job,
where she proceeds to care even less than before. She fends off the
advances of gym teacher Russell (Jason Segel) and focuses her attention
on landing the new substitute teacher, Scott (Justin Timberlake).
Elizabeth realizes that the only way she'll snag Scott's attention is a
little self-improvement. Not becoming a decent person or anything, just
a breast enhancement. From then on, she lies, cheats, and steals her
way to the money she'll need for the surgery; and the only one who
suffers is the good teacher (Lucy Punch) who just wants Elizabeth to do
her job.

In A CLOCKWORK ORANGE, young Alex (Malcolm McDowell) robs, rapes, and
commits horrible acts of violence but maintains a charismatic
personality that allows the audience to root for him. Elizabeth Halsey
in BAD TEACHER, does not. The "protagonist" in this movie also happens
to be the least likable person in the film. As a result, the movie
comes off as a little backwards. The character we're supposed to
support (Elizabeth) is just a horrible person with absolutely no
redeeming qualities presented until the final act of the film. And I
mean none. She was a gold-digging fianc√©, she's perpetually drunk/high
on the job, and she coldly dismisses gym teacher Russell's advances
without a glance in favor of stalking the new substitute with the
massive bank account. It would almost make more sense if the film
focused on Ms. Squirrel (Lucy Punch) living out her dream teaching
career when trouble-making Elizabeth comes along and steals her thunder
in underhanded ways. Punch should be the protagonist, and Elizabeth the
antagonist. But it's not; instead we watch as the film's "good guy"
punishes the "bad guy" for nothing other than doing her job and doing
it well. Oh well, whatever¬Öit's just a comedy after all. Antiheroes can
be fun and it works as long as the film is funny, which it mostly is.
The movie is good for some laughs, though it's tough to be anything but
distant as you watch everything going down without ever really being
drawn into the story.

Cameron Diaz really is the best person for this role. Not because she's
horribly unlikeable (I assume she's not) but because she's got a decent
comedic background in her films and she's still capable of pulling off
drop-dead beauty. In BAD TEACHER, she's the teacher we all wished we'd
had in middle school. She really drives the point home when she
volunteers to work the school's charity car wash so she can pilfer
funds. The supporting cast in this movie is what really makes it
enjoyable. Jason Segel is always great as a lovable schlub (which
pretty much sums up his gym teacher character) and Lucy Punch is
hilariously eccentric as Ms. Squirrel. I've also got to give credit to
Phyllis Smith as Elizabeth's friend Lynn. She's probably the funniest
part of the movie as the soft-spoken conservative friend who wants so
badly to be as cool as Elizabeth but can't bring herself to commit to
the debauchery. Honestly, the main character may be crap but the movie
does have some real funny moments. I just don't know if there's enough
to save it from fading out shortly after watching it. If it helps, I
find the movie is funnier the less sober you are when watching it.
