
There came a point, about half way through this film, when I emerged
from the world of wonder on screen, took stock of my emotions in that
instant, and realized that yes, by God, I am LOVING this movie.

I didn't really expect to, of course -- although certainly, I hoped for
it. With such an incredible cast, an able director at the helm, a story
of Bryan Singer provenance and the inclusion of some of my favorite, if
lesser known, X-types (Darwin! Tempest! Havok!), I was eager to see
this beloved band of merry Marvel mutants redeem themselves after the
massive failures of X3 and X-MEN ORIGINS: WOLVERINE.

Which they do. And how!

One thing that the avid comic fan must do when approaching this movie,
however, is to divorce themselves utterly from almost all established
four-color X-Men continuity. Oh, some bears up, but by and large this
is a whole new origin story, a reboot of epic proportions, and yet it
is a retcon so cleverly done, and one that offers up a such a delicious
mélange of complex relationships and sensible motivation, that all of
the many discrepancies inherent in having Mystique on the side of good
or having Moira McTaggert a CIA agent simply do not matter. 

Speaking of McTaggert, Rose Byrne is both comely and convincing in the
role, and almost every other actor is perfectly, one might almost say
forcefully, cast. McAvoy brings a kind of laddish charm to Charles
Xavier that he mixes nicely with both decency and naïveté, and Michael
Fassbender's nascent Magneto is relentlessly, even heart-breakingly,
compelling. Their chemistry is electric -- theirs' is one of the most
multi-faceted and sincere bromances the screen has seen in a good long
while.

The younger cast all impress, though particular praise must go to
Oscar-nominee Jennifer Lawrence as the petulant but pitiable
Raven/Mystique (The Academy Awards have been good to young, hot
X-chicks; let us not forget that Rogue herself, Anna Paquin, won for
THE PIANO). Former child star Nicholas Hoult is also outstanding as the
troubled Hank McCoy, and perhaps the most surprising kudos must go to
teenage dream Lucas Till, who conveys the particular anti-social
asshole-hood of the turbulent Alex Summers very convincingly indeed.

The biggest letdown in the movie, acting-wise, is January Jones as Emma
Frost. True, she is appropriately ravishing, there can be no denying
that, but she lacks the the zing of the written character. There is
very little intelligence, snark, or even personality behind her
interpretation of this most intriguing of mutants; she's just kind of
Stand There and Look Pretty -- which, for one playing Emma Frost, is
something a travesty.

The only other weight under which this movie really labors is the fact
that it is a prequel, and it therefore suffers from the feeling of
inevitability that besets all such endeavors. Anakin Skywalker HAS to
go Dark Side. Bilbo Baggins HAS to find the One Ring. And Magneto HAS
to turn against humans; Mystique HAS to join him; Xavier HAS to end up
in a wheelchair. With these definite plot developments looming, their
eventuation is bound to be a bit of an anti-climax.

And yet the fun part about X-MEN: FIRST CLASS is the journey it takes
us on to get us there. Offering up plenty of surprises, some kickass
action sequences, mighty fine special effects, sly humor and a killer
cameo, it is without doubt the best comic book movie of the year  nay,
decade  thus far. And considering how overcrowded that list is, this
is really saying Something.

Huh. A prequel that does not, in any way, suck.

Amazing, isn't it?

-- Rachel Hyland, geekspeakmagazine.com
<|_=00=_|>
Fox can breath easy again because I think it's safe to say the even the
extreme fanboys will be putting down their pitchforks and torches and
smile after seeing this amazing film. I know for a fact that general
audiences are going to love this movie. I know some fans can be
irrational and hold on to their hate because they expect certain things
they read in their books but I can't seeing anyone being that
irrational when faced with a result that delivers what First Class
manages to deliver. It honestly is a genre-defining movie on a level
with any comic based film that has come before it. Everything in this
movie is exceedingly better than what Fox delivered in their last two
efforts with this franchise. Going back to the beginning and re-hiring
the guy that brought us those films was a splendid idea. The acting
here is superb and the dialogue is rich. Every character feels
absolutely believable no matter what abilities they have on display. No
cartoonish villains or cheese in sight, every side of the issue is
presented by people who believe they are the ones who are in the right
and the underlying message of tolerance and bigotry only add to the
depth of this film. If not a genre-defining movie than maybe it
redefines the comic book genre. It restores the sense of epic adventure
and grand-scale storytelling that we saw in X2. In fact, it perfectly
complements that great film and probably surpasses it.

This film is to X2 what Godfather 2 was to the Godfather. Seriously,
First Class is an exceptional "flashback" look that links the best of
the X-Men trilogy to the past. Instead of DeNiro playing young Vito
Corleone we get James McAvoy as young Charles Xavier. Marlon Brando and
Patrick Stewart made their respective characters popular but both were
more fleshed out by incredible younger talent. I'm not placing the
X-Men film itself on a par with the Godfather but both have become
legendary in their particular genre. I am, however, saying McAvoy has a
bright future as a complex and talented actor. Just like the young cast
of Godfather 2 was legendary, the young cast of First Class has many
great days and projects ahead of them.

Love this entire cast but Michael Fassbender delivers the best
performance with an amazing presence and command of the screen.
Everyone was extraordinary. What many expected indeed happens. By that
I mean every scene that Fassbender and McAvoy are in together
absolutely sing. It won't surprise anyone to know that Kevin Bacon,
Oliver Platt and Jennifer Lawrence are superb in supporting roles but
Nicholas Hoult did stunning work as the Beast and deserves some love as
well. January Jones and Rose Byrne are hot as can be but aren't just
simple eye candy. Sure, the story is compelling and the action is
amazing but the performances elevate this movie far above a common
summer flick.

Movie of the year so far...
<|_=00=_|>
What you need to know about this movie before you go and see it.

1. Michael Fassbender and James McAvoy are superb. Each one, alone, 
would have made the movie terrific, but together? Forgetaboutit! Every 
step of the way, every scene, every emotion, these two men own the 
movie and watching their bromance is a treat from start to finish. Make 
no mistake about it, even when the world is on the brink of utter 
destruction what really matters is how these two men relate to one 
another. And when you watch the movie, you will care.

2. Everyone in the cast is good. Kevin Bacon has never been better, and 
Jennifer Lawrence is wonderful. Rose Byrne and January Jones aren't 
given much to do, Ray Wise and Michael Ironside only have a few short 
lines, but - across the board - the entire cast are a delight.

3. The story is tight. You've got a bad guy with a plan, which he sets 
about executing in A/B/C fashion. Against him, the good guys work 
together. Their motivations are different, of course, but they pretty 
much want him stopped so they unite. That's it.

4. Charles and Erik are fascinating characters. They debate. And 
viewers can debate endless about them, and about who is right, etc. As 
you watch you desperately wish they could stay friends, but you 
understand why they ultimately can't. Even if they themselves, in these 
early days, don't understand it yet. To have that so perfectly captured 
in a Summer Blockbuster movie is part of what makes this a treat and a 
future classic. But, aside from their relationship to each other, the 
movie takes time to make each of them interesting in his own right. We 
get to see Charles as a teacher, for instance, and come to understand 
how he impacts upon the lives of those he tutors. Some of Erik's best 
moments (away from Charles) are in his comments to Mystique about her 
appearance, making it clear that this man has more to him than the 
shadow of his past.

4. Most supporting characters have very little screen time. But that's 
okay, since this isn't THEIR story, really. Of the bunch, it is 
Mystique and Beast who are best served. Both have terrific character 
arcs that - in a lesser X-Men movie - might have been the highlight of 
the film. Here, their stories serve as quality background material to 
the main event (Charles and Erik). Beyond that, we just learn enough 
about everyone to know what they can do and like them a little bit, 
mostly through their banter and most obvious character traits. Once 
scene where most of the supporting characters are clearly terrified 
will certainly go a long way towards making you care about them for the 
rest of the movie. On the downside: Shaw's two henchmen don't get 
ANYTHING to do except use their powers, and at the end of the story we 
know as much about Emma Frost as we did at the beginning. But these are 
the exception, not the rule.

5. Visually, this movie is a treat. The FX are good, no surprise, but - 
much better - the actual sets/costumes are beautiful. Whether it's a 
remote CIA lab or a lap-dance club, whether it's the Magneto helmet or 
Mystique's everyday clothes, you are always admiring 'the look' of 
what's on screen.

6. There are action scenes all during the movie, but - having said that 
- the movie builds as it goes. The first half is more 
story-heavy/character-heavy so that when the action REALLY starts we 
care about everyone. And, again, it works. Even with the scant details 
given their characters, when Banshee and Havok (for example) go into 
battle you are invested in them to a certain degree.

7. There are surprises. Deaths, betrayals, cameos and name-dropping. 
But, as well as being cool, all of this makes perfect sense for the 
story/universe of the movies.

Superb! Rock-solid script, two amazing lead performances (the film is 
basically a bromance). Haven't been this excited about the X-Men 
franchise since X2: X-Men United.


<|_=00=_|>
There are plenty of big action scenes throughout but it's the first
half of the film that really impresses. Establishing these characters
and the entire universe is done remarkably well and in a remarkably
moving manner. This new spin on familiar "bad guys" Magneto and
Mystique does give the actions and emotions for the characters a new
level of appreciation and helps give them so much more depth and
pathos. Both sides of the fence (Xavier's vision and Magneto's
contempt) are advanced and the brilliance of the plot is that both
sides are understandable and relatable. The viewer can simply sit and
watch it unfold but also be emotionally invested in the journey. During
the second half, plot threads move towards resolution and action picks
up. Xavier is a shining example and his journey throughout the film
matches that of Erik.

First Class never undermines the audience nor talks down to them and
does all that is expected of it. It delivers great action, humor,
effects and a strong connection between heroes, villains and those
developing in between. The retro design is suave and making this a
period piece gives it a cool and unique flavor. The collaboration
between Singer and Vaughn apparently was a perfect blend. Vaughn did a
brilliant job and Singer's vision from the first two films stayed in
tact and was enhanced. I have to add that the score had a perfect
heroic theme but was also moving and very well done. The overall impact
of this film leaves you with a great sensation of a job well done. Fast
paced yet filled with depth, spellbinding visual effects and a gripping
finale. In the end, they succeeded in re-establishing these characters
in a superb and interesting manner. There is more to offer and more
depth to appreciate. I certainly can't wait for a sequel and inclusion
of Scott and Jean from the original trilogy.
<|_=00=_|>
Beginning with a crime-thriller and a fantasy film on his directorial
résumé, it is safe to say that Matthew Vaughn may have already found
his niche genre in the super-hero field despite only directing four
films in seven years. His first super-hero project, 'Kick Ass,' opened
in 2010 to solid critical acclaim and a finalized gross of three times
the film's ordinary $30 million dollar budget. And after only two
years, Vaughn returns with 'X-Men: First Class,' an origins story to
accompany the Bryan Singer/Brett Ratner X-Men trilogy released between
2000 and 2006. It's intelligent, enthralling, well-acted, stylishly
directed, and most importantly by focusing heavily upon the
relationship between the two central protagonists, it does not feel
like a conventional super-hero film.

Set within the political context of the Cuban Missile Crisis in the
early 1960's, Charles Xavier (James McAvoy) is an up-and-coming
Professor whose life is drastically altered when he is introduced to
the other members of society who also share the same mutant gene as
himself that supplies them with super-human abilities and traits. After
stumbling upon the shape-shifting Raven (Jennifer Lawrence) within his
mansion, the telepathic Xavier then encounters Erik Lehnsherr (Michael
Fassbender), the son of Jewish parents who were murdered during the
holocaust by the narcissistic former Nazi scientist, Sebastian Shaw
(Kevin Bacon). Erik, who can manipulate all metal objects around
himself, wants retribution and nothing more from Sebastian who is now a
successful and evil underground figurehead who commands a team of
mutants (Azazel, Emma Frost and Riptide) to do his bidding for him.
But, once his plan for world domination is revealed, they find that it
far exceeds the constraints of humanity, and Xavier, Erik and a rag-tag
band of young, hide-away mutants (Havok, Beast, Darwin, Angel and
Banshee) who were discovered by Charles, must combine their powers in
one last attempt to stop Shaw from destroying the planet and humanity
as a whole.

Instantly where 'X-Men: First Class' works is in regards to its two
central characters; Charles Xavier played by an incredibly affluently
sounding James McAvoy and a rage-fuelled Erik Lehnsherr played by a
stern-faced Michael Fassbender. Their instant on-screen chemistry
provides the drive and ammunition for the plot to carry itself forward.
Both characters have differing ideologies and their constant clashes
due to this aspect allow the script to be brought to life. Instead of
simply infusing their relationship with formulaic violent clashes,
Vaughn has instead opted for more articulated verbal battles between
the two characters regarding their stance within the society they are
now becoming a part of. Xavier is an intellectual being who believes
that humans will eventually be accepted within society as equals
alongside humans, while Lenhsherr believes that mutants will always be
hunted and unable to live peacefully side-by-side with the human race,
his evidence for this resides in the anti-Semitism and hatred he
received at the hands of the Nazi party during the holocaust. This
heavy-set contradiction in ideologies allows their relationship to be
imbued with pessimism, while they may be shown as friends and fighting
together initially, fans of the comic books and films in general know
this does eventually turn into a bitter rivalry and it's this
development which drives the plot forward.

Aside from the script, it would also be rude to not praise the
action-sequences which take place within the confines of the 1960's
X-Men universe. With a modest running time at two hours and ten
minutes, there are more than a few well-choreographed action sequences
that would adequately satisfy any of comic-book-to-film aficionado's
wishing to see this film. Each character's power or ability is at some
point represented in a destructive or defensive capacity, taking full
advantage of the fact that while many super-hero movies tend to
concentrate on the aesthetic nature of the artillery characters can be
seen to withstand from governmental agencies or blindsided human
opponents, here it is shown and constantly emphasized that human
reaction would be futile due to the overwhelming power the mutants
possess. These scenes also allow the less important characters to show
their physical presence on-screen. For example, during the climactic
fight sequence at the conclusion of the film, every mutant character
that is identified to the audience is finally shown using their
abilities to full capacity, most notably the henchmen of Shaw and the
rag-tag team of Xavier and Lehnsherr. This therefore accounts slightly
for the lack of depth that has been attempted in these secondary
characters due to the time and story constraints.

While it is a very good and accessible comic-book/super-hero movie,
'X-Men' does also contain two central flaws. The first is superseded in
a way by the strength of both McAvoy and Fassbenders performances, as
Kevin Bacon is constantly overshadowed as the one-dimensional
antagonist of the piece. His plot to ultimately destroy humanity
becomes second fiddle to the ever intricate complex relationship
between Xavier and Lehnsherr, and his appearance seems too modelled
upon that of a James Bond villain. He has the slick hair, the beautiful
women and the villainous underground Club to boot, but Bacon
unfortunately doesn't have the charisma to be accepted as a worthy
opponent to the protagonists. The other flaw has to do with a minor
aspect of the production itself, as the non-diegetic music, most
notably during the action sequences, begins to diminish in its impact
as the film carries on, leading to it eventually becoming the generic,
genre-related fanfare associated with the conventional comic-book
films.

'X-Men: First Class,' is not your typical comic-book movie, it may
contain certain elements associated with the comic-book genre, but by
placing a heavy emphasis upon the strength of the plot and the script
at the film's core instead of the action-set-pieces taking place,
Vaughn has intended, and succeeded, in transcending the stereotypical
conventions of the genre and has created a film which will appeal to a
wide range of audience members.
<|_=00=_|>
Xmen: First Class is simply fantastic. Strong emotion and explosive
action. The acting is top notch. Delivery from every actor is at it's
best, more so from Mystique, Beast, Xavier and Magneto. 

The story is more character based than action, however the action
sequences are still superb. Personally i'd have liked to of seen it
being a 15 and have a more adult but it wasn't a big issue. Also some
more background story from the bad super's would have been good but
again this wasn't too much of an issue and would leave some nice room
for upcoming xmen movies. 

I don't want to say too much but to break it down... Go see this film
no matter what you are into. There is something for everyone. 9/10 easy
<|_=00=_|>
Of the original trilogy, the first X-Men movie still rates the
best.....until now.

This prequel is an absolute stunner - from storyboard, script, mutant
characters, pace, cinematography, Foley FX, VFX....you get the picture.
In fact, the subtitle for this movie could also be X-Men: Origins. The
poignant beginnings of Magneto and Mystique are recounted, as well as
the extraordinary powers of Professor X. Yes, indeed! The good
professor had plenty of goodies (and hair) in his formative years at
Oxford University.....^^ 

I cannot wait to see X-Men prequel II and III, 3D or not.
<|_=00=_|>
Normally prequel movies are made because the main characters of the
first movie died (or in the end achieved their goals) and the producers
still want to make money out of the franchise. Think Butch Cassidy &
The Sundance Kid, Psycho, the (still to be made?) I am legend and of
course George Lucas's Star Wars saga. X-Men First Class also falls into
that category, but I cannot imagine that anybody will be complaining
about that. Director Matthew Vaughn created a great, thrilling and
sometimes even moving picture that without any doubt will get raving
reviews and be a huge commercial success. God knows both movie and
director deserve it.

What makes X-Men First Class really work is the great story. It tells
us about the beginning of the mutants and especially the friendship
between professor X (a charming James McAvoy) and Erik Lensherr/Magneto
(an impressive Michael Fassbender). Although they will drift apart at
some time, you know that they will always have respect for each other.
In this stage they even become close friends. 

The movie opens during World War 2, when young boy Erik is taken to a
concentration camp (like the opening of the first X-Men movie). There
he meets Sebestian Shaw (a great Kevin Bacon), a scary Joseph
Mengele-like scientist who likes to experiment on Jews and is
especially interested in mutants. In order to force Erik into helping
him he shoots his mother. Erik never forgives him for that and spends
his whole life looking for revenge. Unfortunately he learns that Shaw
is also a mutant. The scientist is even so powerful that it's almost
impossible for Erik to kill him. Luckily he bumps into Charles
Xavier...

What I also like about First Class is that the movie takes place in the
past (the sixties) and uses historical events (the Cuba crisis and the
Cold War) to make its point. Erik claims that no matter how many times
mutants save the world, normal people will always see them as enemies.
Professor X still wants to believe in the good of the people. With that
message the foundation is laid for X-Men 1-3.

The performances in First Class are first rate. Kevin Bacon is a
brilliant villain. His German is actually quite good and his opening
scene can already be considered as a classic. He also speaks Russian in
the movie by the way. Michael Fassbender (Magneto) represents the most
exciting drama in the story. He's kinda like Darth Vader. You know he
will turn to the Dark Side but you still hope that somehow he will
stick with professor X.

First Class will be the beginning of super stardom for actress Jennifer
Lawrence. She plays Raven in the story, a girl Xavier adopts as a real
sister/best friend. She later becomes Mystique. Jennifer won critical
acclaim with her role in Winter Bone and will play the lead in the much
anticipated The Hunger Games movie, to be released in 2012. She is a
great, vulnerable Mystique who later on chooses Magneto over 'her
brother' Professor X. 

So what's more to tell? January Jones as Emma Frost is sexy as hell,
the special effects in the movie are great and there are not one but
two cameos from actors from the first X-Men movie (and no, the second
one is not Patrick Stewart). Unlike previous Marvel movies there is no
extra scene after the end credits and Stan Lee does not have a small
part in this one. Overall First Class makes you think of the Sean
Connery Bond movies and the reboot of Star Trek (2009).

So... are you convinced? Just go see this excellent movie. Can't wait
for its sequel!

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
What stands out in this movie (besides the look of some of the
mutants), is the clever way in which all the pieces fall into place as
a prequel which cements the backdrop and tone for the previous X-men
offers. This one however, stands above them though for the
consideration and tact that has gone into developing these
understandably complex characters. Resulting in a more complete movie
experience.

The leading cast do a brilliant job in giving you a sense of their
conflict with ingredients such as prejudice, ignorance, a sense of
belonging and bitter revenge giving the film a more humane feel than a
lot of dramas allowing you to connect with the characters more easily.

The special effects- lets not forget, are top notch as expected, but
surprisingly very in-keeping with the film and doesn't take away from
the other elements of it. The violence is clean but present, pitched
right between a young and adult audience. There's also a decent amount
of ironic humour thrown in, which, considering the party tricks on
offer (by that I mean the powers and peculiarities of the mutants),
just comes and goes naturally without feeling forced as like a lot of
comedy moments in films of late.

Bottom-line, this is a well-constructed, well acted Marvel film. I
wasn't totally convinced beforehand, casting James McAvoy as the young
Xavier, a full head of hair and northern accent doesn't seem the best
fit after all. I can say that he fully realised that role and showed
his range in playing a more commanding lead. Michael Fassbender has
great screen presence and does a good shift as the Magneto to-be and Mr
Bacon adds another interesting element to the story. All the supporting
cast give a solid performance with everyone focused on the exciting job
at hand and no weak links.

Easily worth the cinema admission and thank god they didn't make it in
hit-and-miss 3d, there's just no need! The best of the X-men franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
I love the Xmen, I won't beat around the bush. There are so many
mutants, heroes and anti-heroes that you relate can to at least one of
them. The franchise has had its ups and downs. The first two films made
the superhero genre what it is today. Stunning set pieces, breath
taking special effects and a group dynamic that was brilliantly
cemented in the second film. The third struck a middle ground where the
spectacle overshadowed the narrative but was still a fun ride, and the
last title Xmen Origins: Wolverine, was the only miss-step in the
series. Xmen first Class is really very good. It manages to keep up
with the first two whilst retaining an originality in its own right.

The Direction is great, Vaughn's clearly got a knack for angles and
keeping the audience engaged whilst the story chops and changes. The
look of the film is modern, yet still has a 60's and almost retro look
about it. The special effects are very good, though some how not quite
up there with Xmen: The Last Stand. The energy is fast and relentless
and the action sequences blend in with the dialogue sequences
seamlessly.

The acting is very good, though Patrick Stewart and Ian Mckellen are
definitely missed, McAvoy and Fassbender do excellent jobs and really
are in keeping with the characters you already know and love. Emma
Frost and Sebastian Shaw are deliciously malevolent and Moira Mctaggart
is perfectly pitched. My only reservation about the acting in the film
is of Mystique, who I believe wasn't quite right, her motives in the
film don't seem in complete continuity with the rest of the films.

A sequel has already been planned and I shall be eagerly awaiting it.
Having Storm back in the series would be a personal highlight for
myself, but not necessary. I would highly recommend this film to anyone
that has watched the original films and even for newcomers.

One thing I will add that I have noticed since watching the original
trilogy is that in 1980 Charles is walking, but according to First
Class he loses this ability in the 60's...
