
I saw "The Devil's Double" at the Berlinale 2011. An unusual large
number (over 300) stayed for the full 30 minutes of Q&A after the
screening. The producer warned us that we should expect not too much of
the political impact of this film. It is better (his words) to regard
it as just a gangster movie. We also learned that the stand-in
situation that seemed compressed here in a smaller time frame, in fact
existed for a full 4 years. We saw that Latif succeeded in keeping his
hands reasonably clean, but it cannot have been real for such a time
span. We still may wonder how much of this life he was pulled-in,
against his will and his nature, but nevertheless being part of it.

According to the film maker, what we saw was in more respects not
completely accurate. Some freedom was exercised while portraying the
situation in Baghdad at that time. The existence of stand-in's,
however, was realistic and publicly known. That went as far as showing
them openly, if only to confuse potential attackers. It certainly
reduced the risk in public appearances, since one could never know
whether you saw the real one, or a double dressed and acting like the
real one.

There were also questions about using English as the prime language.
The producer had some arguments in favor of the choices made. Firstly,
raising a 50M budget for a movie with Arabic speaking actors, was
considered a Mission Impossible. Also, English is generally accepted as
the standard movie language, spoken by Roman emperors as well as aliens
from other planets.

The Q&A also revealed some facts about how Dominic Cooper handled his
double role. We now know that he played both roles on the same day,
given the entourage and colleague actors present that day. He always
played the "lunatic" parts first, and (without much time in between)
the "Latif" parts shortly after that. Of course, there was a challenge
in keeping track of the places where the counterpart actor stood at
particular moments during the scene. Anyway, if he missed a few and
looked in a wrong direction at some instances, I did not notice it and
I think the same of other people seeing this film for the first time.

At various moments throughout the screening the notion crossed my mind
that this movie could be construed as a justification of overturning
the Sadam regime, or (in other words) as propaganda in favor of George
W for a completed project in Iraq. In retrospect, I don't think such a
hidden meaning was intended. The film was not against Sadam as a
dictator in particular, but rather against dictators in general. They
existed and ruled since the time of the Roman emperors (and probably
before that), and still are ruling nowadays in countries all over the
world. We see the wrong side effects of unlimited power. We also see
how uncooperative people were regarded "that is the thanks we get for
uplifting this country" (or variations thereof).

Political issues and hidden meanings set aside, we saw a well
constructed story line, believable casting, and an inside view in the
palace and its inhabitants at that time. One can argue about the
torture, punishment and other violent scenes, that these better could
be left out, or otherwise included implicitly by telling about it
(without showing actual pictures). On the other hand, leaving these out
would change the film too much into a costume drama, thereby reducing
the impact it now will have on the average viewer. Anyway, it is easy
for us to criticize choices being made by the film makers. In my
opinion they did their job very well, all things considered.
<|_=00=_|>
After the slew of Iraq movies, all of them from the American soldiers
perspective (Green Zone, The Hurt Locker, Three Kings) I found the
subject matter of this film to be a refreshing change. What most people
know or remember of Gulf war one, is completely overshadowed by Gulf
war Two/ Iraqi Freedom. So to be able to go back in time and get a
glimpse of Baghdad in it's hey day was a remarkable break from "Victory
movies", this is the only movie about Iraq to date as seen from an
Iraqi viewpoint. Yes, it's violent (not necessarily moreso than Saw,
Texas chainsaw massacre et al) but then since it is a portrayal of
events in a real persons life would you want it any other way? Dominic
Cooper is just fantastic, he inhabits both characters flawlessly and
for the most part you genuinely believe that he is two people.

As for the excess, obscenity, gratuitous violence and material wealth
that some other reviewers have complained about, well, that was Bagdad
in the '80's, does it have to be dressed up in Military Fatigues
screaming "U.S.A" to be a good movie? If you liked Scarface, if you
want an action packed ride, if you love depth of colour and sound in
your movie. If you want to see great acting from Dominic Cooper, then
this is the movie for you.

When you go see it, ask yourself, what would you have done in the same
situation as the main character Latif Yahia? Could you have survived,
because, unless you hadn't heard it is based on a true story.

Watch and Enjoy, I have watched it twice and want to watch it again
because each time I watch it I can't believe it's over, I want more!
Stories like this don't come around everyday. Unless of course you want
to watch another Hurt Locker, it may have won a lot of Oscars but The
Devil's Double deserves more.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw The Devil's Double at the Sundance Film festival back in January.
I didn't really know anything about the story, but there was such a
buzz about it at the festival I thought, why not? that's what festivals
are for, watching movies you might not normally see. I wasn't sorry
that I did, from the first scene until the last I was gripped, I found
myself laughing at times when normally you wouldn't, but that was the
great thing about it, it was a roller-coaster ride. A gangster movie
set in Baghdad in the 80's, the fact that it's based on a true story
doesn't really hit you until you walk out, and you completely believe
that the lead Dominic Cooper is two different people. Fantastic. Even
more fantastic is the fact that the guy who the movie is about Latif
Yahia is still alive! I've seen some people rate this movie with one or
two stars, nonsense, 11 out of 10 it's great! But don't believe me,
spend a few dollars and make up your own mind, you won't be sorry, I
certainly wasn't.
<|_=00=_|>
There are many ways to describe Uday Hussein, Saddam Hussein's oldest
son. None of them are positive. 

The Devil's Double is a "take no prisoners" film that's as hard to
watch as it is entertaining. It follows Latif Yahia (Dominic Cooper),
an Iraqi soldier from an upper class family, who is plucked from the
war to act as Uday's double. Uday (also played by Cooper), remembers
the comparisons the two would get when they jointly attended grade
school. He asks Yahia to be his double - for both political and
personal reasons. Like his father, Uday is in a constant state of worry
over an assassination attempt. Further, he wants to send Yahia on
personal trips that he himself doesn't wish to attend. Yahia, kind and
warm, refuses, but is forced to with the threat of harm to his family.
Yahia is given cosmetic surgery and dentures to complete the look.

Yahia is thrust into Uday's world. This is a world filled with rape,
torture, murder, drugs, sex and money. The lifestyle that the Hussein's
live is more than Presidential - it is royal. Immediately, Uday claims
Yahia as his own property. Uday has grown into a monster, getting
whatever he wants and never having to deal with the consequences. Yahia
is who he wants. The atrocities he witnesses because of Uday disgust
him, but he is stuck in this nightmare. We watch as Uday preys upon
young girls walking home from school. We watch as he guts his father's
best friend at a party. We watch Yahia struggle with the lifestyle he
is forced to live. Uday's fascination with Yahia grows stronger and it
enters your mind that Uday may actually be in love with his double.
This doesn't necessarily mean in a romantic way, but because his love
of himself is so great, that he sees Yahia as apart of himself.

While the rest, as they say, is history, I certainly don't want to
spoil the way the rest of the film plays out. This is a movie that you
must see for yourself!

The acting in dual roles by Cooper, his first film as lead, is Oscar
worthy. He gives both men their own voices, mannerisms and
idiosyncrasies, that instantly allow the viewer to tell them apart.
Subdued and stoic, Cooper plays Yahia as a guilt ridden man, grappling
with the life he has been thrust into. He plays Uday as a manic, hyper
madman with a broken smile and a creepy laugh. You literally believe
they are two different actors.

Latif is an ordinary man who is thrust into an extraordinary situation.
An object of admiration for the President's son, he has no choice but
to comply with the excruciating horrors that are put forth before him.
Never once, however, do we seem his morals waver.

We know how it ends, but as with life, it's the journey that's
important. The Devil's Double is the real life, Middle Eastern
Scarface. Powerful, unsettling, thrilling and always entertaining, The
Devil's Double, is quite easily one of the best movies of 2011.

From PopCultureWhore.com
<|_=00=_|>
I started loving this film within the first few seconds. This film has
many redeeming features and I personally found it very enjoyable.
Director Lee Tamahori brings a lot of the key Oscar-winning players of
the Slumdog team back for this new film. Latif / Dominic Cooper The
human connection element was most fascinating, as we wonder what we
would do if placed in a similar situation ??? We are really "with"
Latif on his journey, as we see him discover a reason to live and how
his life perspective changes, not just how to get free from Uday
Saddam. The Devil's Double, does not simply prove the point that humans
will do whatever it takes to survive in dire circumstances. In fact, I
might argue 9 of 10 people wouldn't do what Latif Yahia (Dominic
Cooper) does in this film. The Devil's Double, A Definite must-see
10/10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie not realizing that both leads were being played by one
amazing actor!!! Dominic Cooper was exactly that: amazing. And
deserving of an Oscar nomination when the time comes for handing them
out. My film club was fortunate enough to have an interview with DC via
Skype and found him to be as charming as he is talented.

Some seem to find fault with this film because it reminds them of
Scarface. I don't get that at all. Perhaps they mean that at times it
is operatic, over the top, but it is, after all, a biopic about a crazy
man, and to me anyway, the parts of the film that deal with the double
offset the high drama perfectly. Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
This film, although admittedly not a masterpiece, is not a 1 star film
either. 

This film has many redeeming features and I personally found it very
enjoyable. In fact it's quite similar to Dorian Gray but loads better
and nowhere near as monotonous. How a certain reviewer , who although
has his own other personal opinions which I really respect, gave this
film just 1 star out of 10 I do not know. One just has to watch the
trailer to find out. Trust me, it deserves much more than that mark.
Overall this is a great film and for me it lived up to my expectations.
Despite some minor flaws I left rather satisfied at the end, certainly
something 1 star films are not capable of doing. 

It's after all how a film should be, rather enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this movie today at Berlinale and was pleasantly surprised that as
I walked out of it thought to myself that it's been a really long time
since I saw a decent movie like this. Before I looked Uday/Latif up on
the internet I had doubts about how close the plot was to reality,
turned out to be quite interesting showing that, well everything in the
movie has (kind of) happened. Makes it disturbing to know on a
different level.

The depiction of Uday's psychotic character throughout the movie seems
very real and does not spare or cheat the viewers any disturbing
torture/abuse scenes. Some people might dislike this, some maybe even
enjoy it.

That being said I liked the overall acting, both main and lesser
characters did a good job. And on a side note: i found the movie sets
and props were quite awesome.

btw: I can still remember the news of Uday's and Qusai's deaths back in
2003, but that meant little to me at that time. At least now i know.
<|_=00=_|>
When they were filming Scarface I don't think they thought that the
lines "Say hello to my little friends" was going to be absorbed into
popular culture. Neither do I believe that Michael Thomas the screen
writer of The Devil's Double think that the line above "I made you
Latif, I MADE YOU !" would stick in the heads of not only me but my
other friends who went to watch the Devil's Double last night. Based on
the true story of Latif Yahia, the man forced to become the Fiday or
body Double of Uday , Saddam Hussein's oldest and psychotic son. Both
parts are played by actor Dominic Cooper ( Mamma Mia!, An Education,
History Boys) a huge departure form his "softer" roles, where he
usually plays a love interest or gentleman. He is so convincing, that
you forget that you are watching one guy playing two roles, well
actually three, Uday, Latif, Latif being Uday! It's confusing just
saying it, try doing it! The film itself is loud, colorful and so
'80's, not that I remember them very well but having seen a few '80's
movies recently I marveled at where they got the shiny suits from! It
is definitely a guy's movie, (but the girls will be captivated by
Dominic in all his guises) and by that I mean fast cars, mustaches,
cigars and lots of semi naked girls! There's a bit of a love triangle,
Uday, Sarrab,(played by hot French actress Ludivine Sagnier, see The
Swimming Pool) Latif. It's fast paced, action packed and does make you
think, how could a guy survive that life? What were his options? Oh
yeah, a bit of techie stuff, it was filmed on R.E.D the new digital
system, see if you can tell the difference in picture quality. I
enjoyed it, my bro's enjoyed it. See for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
The posters for director Lee Tamahori's The Devil's Double (18) declare
it to be "Scarface of Arabia", referring both to Brian De Palma's 1983
gangster opus Scarface and the film's setting during Saddam Hussein's
brutal rule in Iraq. The Devil's Double is based on the true story of
Latif Yahia, an Iraqi soldier chosen by the regime to be the
body-double of the dictator's infamous son Uday, with both roles played
by Dominic Cooper.

The perks of the job are acceptable: enough designer clothing and
willing women to make the average Premiership footballer looking like a
trappist monk. However, the downsides are considerable too: torture,
being shot at  and the fact that the penalty for seeking alternative
employment is the death of Latif's entire family.

Dominic Cooper stars in Devil's Double with Ludivine Sagnier.

Dominic Cooper stars in Devil's Double with Ludivine Sagnier.

It is easy to see why The Devil's Double has been compared to a
gangster film. All the whirring, terrifying madness of Uday's world is
depicted with the brutal verve one finds in Scarface and other films of
its ilk. Instigating nightclub orgies while American bombs are
exploding and shooting at loyal companions in psychotic rages are all
part of Uday's regular routine.

The direction, intermingling footage of Operation Desert Storm with
debauchery, captures the craziness of Uday and Latif's world with a
lurid style.

Again, like a great underworld film, Cooper's performance as the
central villain is masterful, capturing Uday's menacing madness and
chewing the scenery in between sucking breasts or shovelling cocaine up
his nose. His performance as Latif is equally striking, but in a more
nuanced way. We are never in doubt which one Cooper is portraying; his
sickened desperate body language showing through even when Latif is
Uday.

Yet this film is not Scarface, and Uday is not Tony Montana. Tony
Montana, like most anti-heroes found in films depicting criminals, had
a form of morality. It may have been a twisted, cocaine-fuelled
morality but it was one none the less. Uday has no morality; worse than
that, he's evil even by the standards of his father, a man who thought
nothing of gassing entire ethnic groups. This gives the film a heart of
darkness. Uday is possibly one of the most horrifying characters ever
to grace a cinema screen, proving it at regular harrowing intervals
with crimes of a scarcely believable depravity.

This leads me to the film's central flaw. Despite Cooper's performance,
Latif's story never quite feels as compelling as it should be. The
script at times makes a good man's forced descent into hell on Earth
seem more like a mob underling's troubled conscience upon witnessing
his boss go too far. One scene, which directly juxtaposes his actions
in saving others from Uday's horrors, doesn't have anywhere near the
emotional resonance it should. One gets a sense that in trying to show
us a world in which a moral compass is more likely to be thrust into
the genitals of an innocent than providing any sort of guidance, the
film has lost some of its humanity along with its protagonists.

Despite these flaws, though, The Devil's Double is still an excellent
film. It is a brave attempt to portray a difficult and scarcely
believable story. Even its failure to completely emote is
understandable given the skill with which it presents its harrowing
world. Due to this, and possibly the performance of the year from
Dominic Cooper, its flaws are eminently forgivable.

Verdict: ●●●● A must-watch for Cooper's performance alone, but expect
to be troubled as well as thrilled throughout.

Read more reviews on www.theupcoming.co.uk
