
I just got back from seeing "The Men Who Stare at Goats" at the
Woodstock Film Festival. I walked in knowing the main plot, and I
expected it to be pretty good because of the great actors it has, the
premise of the story and the music used in the soundtrack. My
expectations weren't only met, but they were greatly exceeded.

The story follows a broken-hearted journalist (McGregor) who goes on
the job to Iraq to prove to his ex-wife he isn't weak or frail. There,
he meets Lyn Cassidy (Clooney) who is a "psychic" soldier for the US
government, trained by his hippie instructor Billy (Bridges) to use his
mind, peace and love to overcome hairy military situations. The story
is the two mens' adventure together.

The movie is essentially broken down into I'd say 3 parts. The first
part is the main story of the journalist and Lyn as they travel in Iraq
on a special mission Lyn is on. The second is the very humorous
back-story of the history of the creation and existence of the "psychic
soldiers" of the military. When I say "back-story" and "history" I mean
the main background to Lyn and Billy's character, as well as the main
antagonist of the story, played by Kevin Spacey. The third part is the
first person narration provided by Ewen McGregor about the things that
are going on. He offers insight into his mind and opinions on the
things he says and of himself and Lyn as the story progresses.

The Men Who Stare at Goats is a very hilarious movie, with many
quotable lines and excellent acting by the entire cast. The story is
very unique and the film uses that as a great advantage to itself in
setting up the humor. The characters are very real and are taken to
heart right away. The film is funny, intriguing, smart, witty,
fast-paced, emotional, enjoyable and inspirational. I highly recommend
it to any Ewen McGregor, George Clooney, Kevin Spacey or Jeff Bridges
fan, for fans of those men will not be disappointed with the acting and
mannerisms of the characters those actors portrayed.

The Men Who Stare at Goats is a very fun movie to see in theaters and
everyone in my audience were cracking up laughing many, many times. It
is a movie for casual movie goers and film aficionados alike. Go see
it.

8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Watching Grant Heslov's "The Men Who Stare at Goats" was tantamount to
staring at a stick of dynamite - for 93 minutes - that never exploded.
All the critical mass of a quirky, eccentric comedy (i.e., an able
cast, a political pseudo-relevance) seemed to be undercut by clunky
writing, tacky 'Watch people fall down, get run over, and laugh'
stunts, and a painfully disjointed plot which can barely be deemed a
plot at all. Rather, the movie featured more of a direction: an
ill-defined, ill-conceived mission toward which two characters
(Clooney's Lyn Cassady and McGregor's Bob Wilton) floated. The problem
with the loose plot development, in this case, is that Clooney's
chemistry with McGregor feels forced and their connection in the film
equally contrived. The film was peppered with flashback (to which
Bridges and Spacey owe the majority of their on-screen time) which
jettisoned any chance the viewer had with feeling an investment toward
the central story or its characters. In fact, the film stumbles from
character to character so often that the viewer is caught juggling them
under the central story arc -- and we never really care about most of
them in the first place.

"The Men Who Stare at Goats" allows for some laughs and some admirable
situational ironies. But don't expect the brilliance and subtlety of
"The Big Lebowski" or "American Beauty."
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I must say that I was looking forward to this movie - after
reading the cast list and hearing a brief overview of the plot I felt
that it had good potential. And whoever made the trailer did a very
good job of making me want to see it.

Unfortunately, there seemed to me to be a certain amount of confusion
about the film - were the directors entirely sure what type of film
they were making? There are elements of comedy, satire, drama,
action... but without having enough of each of these things to really
give the movie a proper feel or direction. It veers close to being
funny... and then veers off. It comes close to satirising American
military tactics... and then goes off in another direction. I felt that
a little more focus was needed overall to bring the film together.

In terms of acting, I think that generally the actors can be pleased
with their work - I don't remember any specific cases of over or
underacting, and the characters were about as believable as they could
be in a film like this. As far as the comedy goes - this film was
primarily marketed as a comedy - there are some genuinely funny
moments! Overall, however, I felt that some bits needed to be trimmed
down - the constant Jedi references were funny the first time but
quickly wear thin.

The plot also needed a little bit of work: it started off with a
promising storyline, and good editing I might add, but seemed to lose
its way towards the end. It seemed as if the film-makers didn't really
know where to go next. There were a few scenes that really didn't need
to be included either - Robert Patrick's contribution to the film
really added nothing, and could easily be removed. It was entirely
forgettable and was simply a device to get the characters to the next
place that they needed to be.

Overall I'd say this this is a fairly good film, certainly worth
seeing. As for buying the DVD, that I'm not so sure about. If you're
looking for a way to spend and hour and a half of your evening, while
there are better films to see than this there are also considerably
worse ones.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading some of the reviews here, I came to this film expecting
to be disappointed. How wrong I was! It turned out to be one of the
funniest, most powerful films that I have seen in years. It reminded me
of some of the great movies of the sixties and seventies. Times have
changed and it seems that people no longer get the kind of satire that
grabbed us back then. I was constantly reminded of films like "Catch
22,"" M.A.S.H." "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest," and "Steelyard
Blues." In those days, we got it. Now, people see that "Hippy
Philosophy" thing as a clich√©. They cannot see the relevance to today's
world, which is a pity. "The Men Who Stare At Goats' is a genre film,
in the tradition of those great comic satires that challenged the
status quo so effectively, 40 years back. I truly believe its
reputation will grow, over the years.
<|_=00=_|>
I laughed so much I ended coughing! Even more so when I imagined how
hard it had to be for the actors to remain that serious trough the
hilariously stupidities of almost every scene.

I found it brilliant because it had not an ounce of sanity, and it is
difficult now a days to catch a good, funny script that says so much in
saying nothing. It's all in the eyes! 

Do not expect coherence, it cannot have it and that's the geniality of
the whole movie. All the characters are as absurd as they can be,
ambivalent, retarded, inspired and generous... No need to look for more
ingredients to make a perfect funny concoction, worthy of your time and
money.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm going to say its definitely up there in the top few films I've seen
at the cinema this year. It has been criticised for lacking more biting
criticism of the US government, but I think people who are saying that
are missing the point. It does have a fair bit to say about how stupid
the US Military can be and how they like to blow money on obviously
pointless ventures, but there is a whole other side to it.

I thought that the film was more about the human spirit and how that if
you want to make a difference and want to do something you've got to
really go for it no matter how stupid the aim. Obviously the idea of
trying to be a psychic spy is unattainable and may sound ludicrous, but
so may be the notion of trying to create world peace and help bring
different people together over a united cause. The film was more about
how these drifters and lost souls managed to find something that they
found worthy of pursuing and really devoted themselves to it, and I
think this message is more admirable than any side-criticism of the
USA.

The film plays out mainly as a buddy movie with Geogre Clooney, who is
doing his usual comic act very well, and Ewan McGregor as they head
around Iraq not really knowing what they are looking for and getting
into loads of hilarious antics along the way. I don't think I've
laughed so much in the cinema this year, and the whole audience was
laughing along as well.

I thought the structure was hardly groundbreaking, but done really
well. Flashbacks involving Jeff Bridges and Clooney help add comic
relief during some of the straighter scenes in the film and also at
times are used to rack up the tension and reveal interesting insights.
It is of course up to your interpretation if the flashbacks are 100%
real, because they are told from the point of view of Ewan McGregor,
recounting stories that were told to him by Clooney. This sorts out
another common criticism that the film is extremely unrealistic, but
there are some key scenes saying that Clooney might not be telling the
whole truth that I feel have been overlooked.

It isn't going to be Oscar-fare or the greatest thing you'll ever see
but with a good cast and a lot of laughs there isn't really going to be
a much better way of spending a lazy Saturday afternoon with some
popcorn and a buddy or two.
<|_=00=_|>
Even from the title, a person can guess that this movie will be
different. Men staring at goats doesn't seem like the most interesting
plot line; maybe then does the movie aim to be original rather than
just having commercial appeal? The answer is a resounding yes. Men Who
Stare at Goats is absurd, odd, hilarious, amusing, definitely original,
possibly good and not at all what you would expect.

The plot, well the plot is complicated and involves a present-time
storyline that is broken up between flashbacks. In short, George
Clooney and Ewan McGregor are on one hell of a road trip in Iraq while
Clooney tells McGregor about his time in a secret army training
program, bent on creating Jedi warriors. So it's your typical movie.
What it really is is one of those smart-and-dumb-at-the-same-time
-comedies-that-involves- George-Clooney; films such as Burn After
Reading and The Informant (which he produced) also fall into this
category. Whether you like this movie or not, will depend on how
accepting you are of the ridiculous. The movie deals with developing
Jedi warriors in a comedically serious way that will be just too much
for some people. The sixties counter culture is popular target for
jokes in films, but an army program run by a long-haired hippy, working
on world peace by dancing, that's pushing it. My personal feeling for
the movie was overall positive; it was original and some segments were
genuinely funny. Also on the plus side was the acting. The two leads
were good, though McGregor had some accent slips, but the supporting
cast was also impressive. Kevin Spacey, Jeff Bridges and Stephen Lang
all embraced the absurdity of their roles and played them with relish. 

As for the comedy, the movie is funny. Some parts drag on a little long
with no laughs but patience is always rewarded. Jokes in this movie are
both smart and dumb, mixing slapstick with intellectual comedy. Clooney
running over someone he's trying to rescue falls in the slapstick
category; a guy explaining why the US has to finance the Jedi training
because the USSR thinks there already financing it is smart funny.
Kevin Spacey's "psychic voice" is just plain funny. 

To finish off, I can only think to repeat that the movie is absurd and
just plain odd, but then again so is real life. If the US can torture
people with Barney why can't they train people with Star Wars?
<|_=00=_|>
The story borrows liberally from the exploits of Joe McMoneagle and
Ingo Swann and the cadr√© of Remote Viewers stationed at Fort Meade, MD,
under the operational detachment Project Stargate. Yes, as the film
states upfront: "More of this is true than you would believe". There
are instances in the film that incorporate actual Stargate operations:
tracking submarines, finding a kidnapped American General in Italy and
the search for Noriega following the US invasion of Panama. The comedy
comes from the disconnect that the professional military hierarchy has
from the rest of us. The Pentagon has too much money at its disposal
and its internal political dynamics encourage a bizarre mixture of
risk-averse yet forward-thinking innovators. This was particularly
rampant after our loss in Vietnam. Vietnam and the Cold War combined to
pull the Pentagon Brass in a thousand different directions and created
a schism in the strategic planning sectors that is ripe for comedic
exploration. Grant Heslov deftly captured this cultural watershed
through his direction of the film. He ably guided the actors in
performances that while sometimes brief, captured the totality of the
real absurdity that the military can sometimes give us, while keeping
the characters real and grounded and not drifting into farce. Heslov
has captured an elusive tone, entirely his own, that I've only
previously seen in Coen Brother's films. This is a story I've longed to
see told on the big screen and it was worth the wait. You could say its
a story about the Military-Insanity Complex, but that's too broad a
brush for this slice of American military history. Clooney is
brilliantly understated as always, he's a master of subtlety and an
actor that understands how powerful the camera can be. Kevin Spacey is
throughly despicable as the film's only real villain. If the film has
any flaws at all its that Spacey is not in it enough. But the most
poignant character is beautifully drawn by Jeff Bridges, who in just a
few scenes depicts the inevitable trajectory of the innovative
free-thinker in a rigid, uncaring system. Bridges shows us the cost of
being that individual and Heslov gives the film room to explore this
aspect of the story without sacrificing the reason we're all there to
watch: and that is to have a laugh at something that maybe should never
have happened but did.
<|_=00=_|>
I understand that not everyone will get this movie, but for me it was
an overwhelming emotional ride because I share the same philosophy as
the character Bill Django (Jeff Bridges). I recommend this movie to
anyone who likes to ask questions about why things are the way they are
in our world and wonders what we can do to change it. It was
intelligent and funny, and will probably be appealing to more
open-minded viewers. There are too few movies like this and I enjoyed
that it made me think. It has that altruistic feel to it that doesn't
sit well with everyone based on some other reviews, which perhaps makes
it an even more important movie for our times.
<|_=00=_|>
While doing his boring job as a reporter-journalist, one man stumbles
upon the existence of an old military secret: a branch of soldiers
trained in harnessing their mental superpowers. Coincidentally, after
heading off to Iraq for an inside scoop on the 2003 war, he meets
another member of this secret group and his misadventures begin.

There's some weird obsession with "Star Wars" in this film. Besides the
obvious talk of Jedi Warriors, there's a scene early on where the main
character makes a reference to blonde farm boy, which is clearly meant
to be Luke Skywalker. (What's interesting is that later the guy claims
to have not seen the movies, so it's odd that he would make cryptic
references.)

I cannot say enough about the amazing cast. Ewan MacGregor, Kevin
Spacey, Jeff Bridges and George Clooney, among others. The most
disappointing thing about this film is that with such an amazing cast
that you would think this would be the year's blockbuster, but actually
will more than likely be no more than a blip on the cinematic radar.

I don't know what's up with Roger Ebert and his Lebowski obsession. In
his review, he repeatedly says that Lebowski fans will like this one
and that Jeff Bridges plays his role as Lebowski playing a military
man. Well, I could see some Lebowski in there, and like that other
film, they both involve Iraq. But, really, I see Lebowski when I see
Jeff Bridges, so that's not really a stretch. Ebert really took it
beyond the necessarily bounds.

Ultimately, the film comes up short. With this cast, as I said, I
expect something more. There is humor, but it's here and there. And
even the plot, which is interesting, doesn't really seem to be as
strong as it should be. A good film, and one I recommend to George
Clooney fans, but not a hidden treasure.
