
Today I had to sit through this movie several times. :-(

As an adult, it wasn't funny or entertaining. But what amused me was
the reaction from the kids in the audiences. Almost none of the kids
laughed out loud during the matin√©e viewing (the showing with the most
kids in attendance). 

Some take away comments from the mouth of babes: "Is it over YET?" "I'm
bored" and my personal favorite "That wasn't so funny at all." (poor
kid said it over and over again with the "big" jokes.) Plus, I had
never seen so many kids ready to leave after the first 15 minutes. 

It didn't get better over the course of the evening.
<|_=00=_|>
After all the negative reviews I read, I went in with pretty low
expectations. Perhaps that's why I ended up giving up a 7.

Look, this is not Hamlet, Citizen Kane or Duck Soup. This is a PG film
that as close to being family friendly than I have seen. I can only
imagine the PG rating was due to the fact that the chipettes were darn
right sexy - I didn't hear any vulgarity, see any nudity, violence or
adult situations.

It is really getting hard to find a film where I can take my 9 year old
daughter to. With battling giant robots, vampires, and giant smurfs
lurking in 3D, this movie was a relief to see.

The plot is paper thin - though in its defense it did have an ethical
base of family, friendship, and responsibility.

The effects were top notch, and there were a few times I even laughed
(which was a few more times than I expected).

In one word it was - 'Cute' - which is exactly what I think it sought
out to be. Nothing more.. Nothing less. Harmless fluff.

My 9 year old enjoyed it. And at the end of the day, that's all that
mattered to me.

This is a film for children. Taken on it's level, I give it a 7. if you
want to rate it as art or entertainment for adults? Yeah, mebbe a 2 or
3. But you know what? Some kids were clapping at parts in the theater.
To me, that was pretty cool knowing that a film can get kids in a
theater clapping for the characters on the screen.

So relax. chill.. bring your little ones... and enjoy...
<|_=00=_|>
I asked my 11 year old and 7 year old daughters what they thought of
this film. They both loved it. 

The 3 on IMDb is a bit misleading. This is a film for children, not a
campaign to win an Academy Award! Obviously there are people out there
who take things a little toooooo seriously when rating kid's movies.

My 11 year old daughter writes the following: the movie was great. i
love the sounds of those little voices. why are kids films usually
getting a 2,3,4? the film the music, adventure,scenes were all
entertaining for me. 

Remember folks, this is a film for children, the chipmunks have been
around for more than 30 years so they must be doing something right. If
you want to over analyze a film then do a search on the French new age
section and go your hardest, on the other hand if you are looking for
pure entertainment for your under 12's then go no further.
<|_=00=_|>
I can honestly say the movie itself was only decent, I did expect
better and this is coming from a huge fan of the chipmunks, dating back
to the early 80's when the cartoon series reined. I enjoyed the first
3D chipmunk movie, I watched it a few times and there wasn't too much
with it that I did not like. But this movie... it had me smile a few
times, other times it kinda let me down because it did not live up to
my expectations.

One of the BIGGEST disappointments to me was the limited interaction
the chipmunks and chipettes had with each other throughout the movie.
It certainly wasn't like the old cartoons where they were all together
getting into mischief, competing with each other, or just plain having
fun doing whatever it was they did. It was always enjoyable watching
Alvin and Britney going at it, while the other 4 tried to keep them out
of trouble. In this movie their interaction with each other is very
limited, and when they do interact, it's mostly in depressing or angry
situations. In the old cartoons, sure they squabbled, especially Alvin
and Britney... but it was in a fashion that left you smile cause you
know deep down they all cared. In this movie they seemed.. cold to each
other, especially Alvin vs. Simon.

Examples are when Alvin tries to warn Britney about Ian Hawk, Britney
turns a cold shoulder to Alvin's advice and ends up on the floor
covered in food, angry at Alvin. Another example is a scene showing a
depressed Theodore because of his brothers fought for a good portion of
the movie, Eleanore comes over to talk to him. Just when you think
she's gonna cheer him up, the scene ends abruptly in my opinion. Last
example is when Alvin misses the music competition and shows up late,
Britney just looks at him all sad and says "BTW, I didn't want to win
this way" then walks away.. what the heck is that? There's also the
constant arguing and fighting going on with Alvin and Simon, and
Theodore spends a good amount of his time being sad. I was not
expecting some chipmunk love story where they all fall for each other
and live happily ever after, but I did expect to see them all get along
for more of the movie. The majority of the movie was about them
fighting and distrusting each other, it's not the image I remember from
my youth.

I understand that the storyline was that Ian wanted revenge on the
chipmunks, and didn't want the chipettes to trust the chipmunks so they
couldn't warn them about who he really was. Simon and Alvin we're
fighting because Alvin was being his egotistical self, and Theodore
didn't like it. The storyline in theory was good; it's the way it was
executed that kinda killed it. It felt like they tried to do too much,
and accomplished so little. It's like the movie was just a bunch of
short random scenes that eventually came together in some fashion, but
never felt entirely complete. Again, I think I feel this way because
you never really see ALL of the chipmunks together in this one, and it
seems to focus on Alvin and Simon a lot more than the other four.
Because this Squeakuel introduces the chipettes, by the end of the
movie you feel like the chipmunks and chipettes never really got to
know each other, then they all end up living together in the end?

Besides the limited interaction with the chipmunks and chipettes as a
whole, where was Dave? In a hospital bed almost the entire movie. Don't
get me wrong I'm not a huge fan of Jason Lee, but jeez why cut Dave out
of almost the entire movie? He's part of the Chipmunks franchise, and
he made very limited appearances. Instead they put in some nerd cousin
of David's who wants to take no responsibility and play video games.
Who is this guy? I don't ever remember seeing him before, why take out
Dave? I did start to kind of like him by the end, but still.. he was no
replacement for Dave.

So there's that, those are my biggest disappointments about the movie.
Besides the flawed execution of the story, the limited interaction of
the munks, and the lack of Dave.. it was enjoyable to watch. I can
honestly say unless you are a chipmunk fan from the past, you probably
will not like this movie. I am personally hoping for a 3rd movie just
to correct the mistakes of this one, and carry on this wonderful
legacy. I want to see all 6 munks running around, laughing and playing,
and getting into trouble like the good old days.
<|_=00=_|>
I was about as excited about watching The Squeakquel as Marie
Antoinette was about walking to the guillotine. From the trailer alone,
you can tell this was made with the hope of making a quick buck with as
little quality as possible. It succeeded, as it made millions of quick
bucks at the box office and it just made another when my mother decided
to buy the DVD. We decided to spend quality time together watching this
thing, and after wasting precious minutes of my life with bad jokes and
a stale plot, I have decided to review it.

The chipmunk trio is sent to high school, where they deal with
stereotypical high school problems and have a rivalry with a female
group of chipmunks, The Chipettes. The Chipette's manager is the greedy
manager of the Chipmunks from the last movie, seeking to reclaim his
former glory by making millions off of the female group's talent. Then,
there's a plot where the Chipmunks sign up for a talent show in order
to win money for the school's music program, which is losing funding, a
plot I'm sure has never before been used.

The story is about as interesting as the synopsis. You could make a
drinking game based off of how often you can predict what's going to
happen next. None of the characters besides the main trio are
interesting, the jokes fall flat, and all the high school "trauma" the
chipmunks deal with is about as real as an episode of Saved By the
Bell.

Now, I wasn't expecting Citizen Kane or some grade A masterpiece with
complex themes and characters. I knew perfectly well this is a kids
film and not one of excellent quality at that. It fails nonetheless.
Just because a movie is for kids doesn't mean you have to reach for the
lowest common denominator in order to entertain them, it doesn't mean
you have to give them a thin plot with the freshness of a rotten apple
core, it doesn't mean you have to reach for teenage stereotypes that
should have been out with big hair, and it doesn't mean you shouldn't
at least TRY to put a decent amount of effort into the final product!
3/10
<|_=00=_|>
Saw an early screening. I never saw the first one, but within the
context of it being a kids' movie, it was actually quite well made. I
actually laughed at the jokes, and I'm 33 and educated. If I were a
young kid, I'd love this movie a lot, but I'm way past that and am
often quite critical of children's genre films these days. The plot was
coherent and the moral issues were clear. The characters stay true to
themselves, much to anyone who is a fan of the original cartoon
characters, and the dynamic of character triads works well for moral
storytelling.

The moral lesson to be taught is about learning to be selfless and
considerate of others. This is explored through Alvin and his ego
problem, and the consequences it has on his friends and family. Other
characters have their own arcs as well, and they read clear and
convincingly.

On the downside, I think there are some choices that hurt the quality.
Dave, the most famous human character in the franchise is probably in
the film for about 5 minutes total, however the human characters we're
left with are good performers with decent subplots. I did not care for
the clich√© use of a fart joke, but I forgive it because there was only
one, and it was used in a way that's actually still funny to adults.

Sure, it's not the most intellectual film for an adult audience, but it
serves its purpose and achieves its goals, despite being the result of
commercialism. I highly recommend it to anyone looking to take their
small kids out to a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this film, but mostly because I went in with the
expectation that I would have an hour and a half of laughs and general
fun, not a serious film. I have seen the first film, and this isn't as
good as it, but probably because film makers always use up all there
best ideas in the first films, very few sequels live up to or surpass
the originals. Obviously it's not the sort of film you can watch again
and again, the jokes are clich√©d and will quickly become old to anyone
over the age of about 8. It never ceases to amaze me why adults go and
see a children's film and somehow expect a serious film. All in all,
good fun, the quality of the film isn't bad. Children will enjoy this,
and their parents won't be bored by it either!
<|_=00=_|>
I have to laugh at the comments about "not having substance." Um, this
is 'Alvin and the Chipmunks,' right? If you really are concerned about
what "messages" this movie is sending your children (or....yourself?),
then there is a plain, easy-to-grasp theme about family and friends
sticking together. I'm not sure what else you want.

Beyond that, the film is very cute, funny, and entertaining all the way
through. The female-counterpart "Chipettes" add something new, but
don't take away from the Chipmunks. Zachary Levin and David Cross are
charming and amusing in their respective roles. If you liked the first
movie, then you will be entertained by the "squeakquel."
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a terrible movie, even for children. I am 15 and had to
bring my younger brother to this. Even he didn't enjoy this movie.
Watch the three chipmunks attempt to "survive" high school. It boggles
my mind that people are still pretending that high school is a huge
threat. It really isn't anywhere near how bad these unimaginative
scriptwriters and directors believe it to be. you love exhausted and
clich√©d plot-lines, shallow teenage stereotypes, numerous plot-holes
galore, and an endless stream of fart and belch jokes, you still won't
watch this movie. I wouldn't even recommend this to fans of the
original, which was probably about five times better then this garbage.
A useless movie that maybe should have been released straight to DVD at
best.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand the severely low rating for this film. 2.7?

I was prepared for something awful but wanted to do something with the
4 younger kids before they headed back to school.

This is the movie they wanted to see.

I've seen a lot of kids' movies and this is definitely among the
funnier ones I've seen.

My 8-year-old and I sat next to each other and had a hard time
controlling our laughter on a few occasions.

I told my husband he definitely has to see this when it comes out on
video. I can't wait to watch it with him!

Give it a try - maybe even risk raising your expectations a little!
