
For some reason this movie had not been getting the greatest critic
reviews. I do not understand that at all. I thought the movie was very
enjoyable and a successful sequel in the series.

For anyone who has seen the first Iron Man you can expect much of the
same in this movie. Robert Downey Jr. plays Tony Stark like he is meant
for the part. He has the same sarcastic wit and self-confidence that is
evident in his other movie roles. Gwyeneth Paltrow, as Pepper Potts,
has a comes more to the forefront in the sequel. I also personally love
that Jon Favreau is the driver for Stark/Potts, and that he gets into
the action a little bit. You have to respect the director for that,
even though Jon has done plenty of acting himself.

Normally in when they replace someone in a sequel with a different
actor/actress I am very upset. However, Don Cheadle replacing Terrence
Howard in Iron Man 2 as War Machine/Lt. Rhodes made me happy. This is
similar to what happened with Maggie Gylenhal in the Dark Night.

Samuel L. Jackson playing Nick Fury has a bigger role, and it leads all
the viewers into wanting The Avengers movie to come out immediately.
Scarlett Johansson also showed up with some impressive stunt work,
along with her always gorgeous looks.

All in all it was a well done sequel. The plot is not too convoluted to
follow. The new villain, played by Mickey Rourke, is very impressive
and fun to watch. The action scenes are all entertaining but they do
not completely drive the movie. The only thing that I wished for
leaving the theater was a longer final fight scene.

Also, make sure to watch after the credits!! It is short, but worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
Robert Downey Jr was the best reason to watch the first Iron Man film
since he seemed to slide into the role of Tony Stark so flawlessly and
effortlessly. RDJ is just as amusing and fun to watch in Iron Man 2. If
there were any doubts left over from RDJ's portrayal of Tony Stark from
the first film, they're inevitably washed away with his convincing
performance in the sequel. Newcomers Mickey Rourke, Sam Rockwell, and
Scarlett Johansson are just as impressive. Rourke has been on an
incredible streak since The Wrestler and puts in another solid
performance here. His Russian accent is pretty spot on and he shows a
wider range of emotion than you may not be expecting. Rockwell has been
on my "actors to keep an eye on" radar since Confessions of a Dangerous
Mind. I thoroughly enjoyed his smarmy performance as Hammer, who has
all of the tools at his disposal to make as big of an impact on the
world as Tony Stark has only to wind up falling short in the long run.
The flirting between Tony and Johansson's Natalie Rushman is pretty
captivating, but her crowning achievement is her fight scene in the
latter half of the film that practically steals the show. Don Cheadle
does have a few humorous one-liners and is great as War Machine, but
doesn't really add anything that Terrence Howard already established
with the role in the first film. It's slightly disappointing since
Cheadle is known for his strong acting roles, but may be a result of
the way the Capt. James Rhodes character was written for both films.

While the film is a worthy sequel, it does contain a few small flaws.
What is it with Hollywood films lately having the climactic battle
during the finale last five minutes or less? Transformers: Revenge of
the Fallen, Clash of the Titans, and Iron Man 2 all share this trait.
It doesn't take away from the fact that the conclusion to Iron Man 2 is
still pretty satisfying, but my mindset seems dead set on thinking it's
more satisfying when the antagonist has the advantage. He or she gains
the upper hand and there's that moment where you think they may bring
their evil plan to fruition before the protagonist outsmarts the
antagonist for the win. When that last battle seems short, it makes it
seem like the villain was all talk. Speaking of the action sequences
though, they're spectacular and twice as big as the action in the
original film. The problem is that the action seemed to get blurry
during several of the more hefty action scenes. I'm not sure if it's
because it's the way it was shot or what, but it made it seem like
there was too much going on in the film to fully process in
post-production or something.

Iron Man 2 is an extremely satisfying sequel on all accounts. While the
original film is probably slightly better, the sequel does everything
right and doubles up on everything in comparison; action, strong
characters, teases for upcoming Marvel films, etc. Despite some of its
early negative criticism, Iron Man 2 delivers a worthwhile sequel with
a fantastic cast and spectacular action.
<|_=00=_|>
The sequel to Marvel studio's surprise hit of 2008 is here, bigger than
ever. But is it better? After the surprise success of Iron Man,
expectations for the sequel, from both movie viewers and long time
comic books fans, were no doubt high.

Picking off where the first film ended, billionaire genius Tony Stark
has just revealed to the world his identity as the armor clad
superhero, Iron Man. Now he reaps the whirlwind consequences of his
actions as both the military and unscrupulous competitor Justin Hammer
vie to obtain the secrets of Stark's Iron Man technology for their own
gain. Too add to the flames, Stark soon discovers that the very
technology that is keeping his heart alive is also poisoning him. As he
tries to salvage a life that is slowly falling to pieces and his
growing feelings for his long time assistant Pepper Potts(Gwyneth
Paltrow), Starks has to contend to with a foreign weapons genius named
Ivan Vanko who seems to bear a deep seated grudge against the ailing
billionaire; a grudge that stemmed from the legacy of Tony's father,
Howard Stark.

Whatever was good in the first movie is carried on in true sequel
fashion. The acting and chemistry among the cast is definitely the
highlight of the whole film. Robert Downey Jr IS Tony Stark, though
less of a playboy following his "change of heart"(figuratively and
literally) in the first movie, but still the same wisecracking, smirky
eccentric. Everyone is just so natural in their roles including the
villains, especially The character of Justin Hammer, played by Sam
Rockwell. Hammer had all the makings of a silly one dimensional
villainous caricature, but manages to be a well rounded scumbag of a
corporate competitor, providing some excellent comic relief while still
presenting a credible threat to the hero.

That being said, the script is just littered with witty banter,
intelligent jokes and a good number of "Easter eggs" for the long time
comic book fans. Writer Justin Theroux had a good number of interesting
themes going for this movie, most notable of which is the theme of
"legacy", of what people leave behind when they are gone; their
impressions on their successors and how the effects of their past
actions would echo down the years long after one has passed. Stark
himself, faced with his inevitable demise, does not want to leave a
legacy of death as a weapons designer. Aside from that, we see how the
legacies of both Stark's and Ivan Vanko's fathers have affected their
present lives.

Now, Vanko's (played by Sin City's Mickey Rourke) is a truly tragic
tale. It is easy to pass him off as a "darth maul" type character with
no other purpose than to provide the hero with a powerful opponent for
the mandatory climax. But to the more attentive viewers, one can see
how Vanko is basically the dark opposite reflection of Tony Stark. Both
are geniuses, both are where they are because of their respective
fathers yet different circumstances in life brought them down entirely
different paths. The parallels between his origin story of creating the
"whiplash" powered armor from scrap, getting captured(in a similarly
explosive manner) in order to develop weapons for one man to bring down
his competitor all the way to his cunning escape plan and his mistaken
impression about his dearly departed father are all uncannily similar
to Tony Stark's experiences in the first movie that led up to his debut
as the hero Iron Man and his mistaken impression about his own father.

The one thing viewers might not appreciate is that this sequel seems to
lack that sense of "fun" that the first film had, taking on a more
serious tone at times to dish out the more complex themes and even a
romantic sub-plot. It really is too bad that the more complex themes
are there but not really expanded upon. This leaves a lot of "could
have been more" moments hanging by the time the show ends. At least the
action is satisfying high octane eye candy as Jon Favreau's steady
directing hand brings out the intensity of every battle scene. Special
effects are top notch as usual except for a couple of cartoony looking
moments that do require some suspension of disbelief, for example the
briefcase that transforms into an iron man armor with armor parts
seemingly appearing from out of nowhere.

By the time the all too familiar final battle is over and the credits
start rolling, one gets the impression that Iron Man 2 could have been
a lot more than the sum of its parts. A little longer running time
would have fixed most of the story kinks but perhaps Marvel is merely
using this movie as a money generator and spring board to something
greater.(Blatant teasers are thrown into the narrative itself almost
like a running catalog of future Marvel film projects).

Topping the first film is no easy feat and of course Iron Man 2 would
disappoint a few here and there. But it is nonetheless one of the most
entertaining comic book movies that mixes action, wit, drama and cast
chemistry so well. If widespread appeal is its purpose, then Iron Man 2
has fulfilled that function magnificently in that even a newcomer to
the franchise can kick back and enjoy the show. Marvel studios has
started a new legacy beyond great comics. Here is a legacy of comic
book movies, true to the spirit of its source material yet tailored
nicely to the tastes of the modern movie audience.
<|_=00=_|>
Reading Iron Man 2's plot summary, things sound bleak for our
characters. But not at all. This is a breezy, light-hearted,
inoffensive affair that saunters at a magnetic pace, with emotional
discomfiting a far thought. Which is pretty refreshing, to say the
least. In fact, Iron Man 2 is the complete of antithesis of recent
comic book movies. For one, it certainly isn't darker than its
predecessor, absent its slow-burning first half and latched-on social
commentary. It also gives itself the poetic license to stretch
credulity. This is a movie about a man who flies around in metal suit,
blasting away multicolored-haired Russians with electric whips. Realism
simply doesn't apply, and thankfully director Jon Favreau and writer
Justin Theroux take affectionate liberty with the bonds of belief. Yes,
Ivan Vanko can secretly build super technology unbeknownst to his
suppliers. And yes, the only way to incapacitate a drunken Tony is to
beat the crap out of him in a Iron Man suit. No complaints here! 

Iron Man 2 is also very much Iron Man's superior, although partly by
default. The first movie was stuck with a pedantic origin story.
However, the sequel had no shortage of possible paths to take. Which
did it choose? The way you should always go; the road of
characterization. Rather than tediously expand upon its universe, Iron
Man 2 simply reprises its dramatis personae and sticks them into
situations graver than before, upping the ante but reiterating the
overall heart and spirit of its predecessor. The characters are
well-etched, each snappy exchange rendered with a mature pathos that
contrasts with the spurious scenarios that they feature in between of.
Iron Man 2 could easily be called a comedy, but the naturalism of the
comedy is seamless; you get the sense that it would be impossible to
write this movie without having these vibrant characters joke and jeer.

To bring the clever screenplay to life is the phenomenal cast. Robert
Downey, Jr., as always, is effortlessly captivating. Charisma defined
and an scandalously unsung master of versatility (he's not just playing
himself, people!), it's no breaking news that he's still one of the
most watchable actors ever. He is the perfect Tony Stark, and a
more-than-worthy representative of the thinking man's action star. His
chemistry with Gwyneth Paltrow as the pragmatic Pepper Pots is
electric, and she too turns in a fine performance. Wistful, but by no
means a damsel in distress, she is probably the realest character.

The baddies, just as essential as the hero, don't disappoint either.
Another wrong from last time round successfully remedied is the lack of
genuinely menacing villains. Jeff Bridges honored us with his
always-welcome presence in Iron Man, but his warm affability was
anything but menacing. This time, however, Mickey Rourke and Sam
Rockwell (oddly, both novices to blockbuster attention) are on duty,
offering more than enough bang for your villainy buck. Rourke as Anton
Vanko/"Whiplash", supplements a composite of the unintentionally hokey
showman, supercilious mastermind, and the seemingly unstoppable
behemoth. This effectively fends off one-noteness, and Rourke perfectly
embodies the duality of Vanko's deceptively boorish visage and
surprisingly vast intellect, while still indulging in the welcome
irreverence that comes with the comic book villain (his Russian drawl
is humorous but gives him an otherworldly conviction).

Rockwell, on the other hand, is flat-out comic relief as Stark's
weaselly rival  though not necessarily a threatening one  Justin
Hammer. He is excellent in the part; an absolute delight to watch,
whether irascibly mugging in a loss for words with his insubordinate
partner Vanko or, in one of the movie's best moments, shamelessly
accolading his own (faulty) inventions with juvenile zeal.

Unfortunately, with all these characters butting heads for screen time,
co-stars Don Cheadle and Scarlett Johansson as Tony's pal Colonel James
"Rhodey" Rhodes and eventual partner War Machine and alluring temptress
of a new assistant Natalie Rushman, respectively, are given the short
straw. Both are more than able of carrying a scene, but while the
script lavishes Tony with many moments in which to brood his way into
some fine character development, and to convey Pepper's many
grievances, neither supporting character is as lucky. Cheadle's moments
of potential are all obstructed by the War Machine suit, and everything
otherwise requires him to lucidly voice reason as a foil to the devil
may care Tony. Johansson is a non-event, her Natalie Rushman an amoral
nothing role, and her Black Widow guise is not so much daring femme
fatale as listless sex symbol. She acts as merely a vessel for fan
service, be it in her skintight suit for the general audience or that
she represents another stepping stone to an Avengers movie for esoteric
comic book fans.

The movie is inter cut between the scenes of terse characterization and
octane action. The latter is a dizzying combination of rapid
vicissitudes and toe-to-toe skirmishes, high on CGI, low on genuine
peril. In fact, Iron Man 2 could quite possibly have been a masterpiece
of the genre had it lived up to its first forty minutes of exuberance
and intrigue. But once the clumsy pugilism of Iron Man and Whiplash
takes place, the movie falls flat. The power play is nonexistent,
because it's hard to believe anyone could stand a chance against ol'
Shellhead. And if no sense of alarm can be conveyed when Iron Man is
caught in an unusually melee showdown, the flight sequences leave no
impression. Yes, the special effects are astounding, but it's all for
nothing if there's no dramatic undercurrent.

Otherwise, please, don't mistake my raving for fanboy hyperbole; Iron
Man 2 is great. It's well-written, well-acted, and simultaneously a
loving throwback to comic book norm and a break from recent tradition.
It's a rare occurrence to be thankful for, because God knows if this
follows the superhero trilogy formula, the third one will suck. Which
would tragically make this movie's thrilling departure from cliché null
and void.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked it a lot better than the mixed reviews I was reading would have
led me to believe. It's not as fresh as the original, but the charisma
and humor were there, and so were some great surprises. RDJ was amazing
as always - it's hilarious that Iron Man is a funnier superhero than
Spiderman, but the improv makes it work. Thumbs up! I think that anyone
who enjoyed the first movie will like this as well, and enjoy a great
thrill ride! And don't forget to stay after the credits for yet another
Marvel movie tie-in that leads towards the inevitable Avengers movie in
2012! Don Cheadle did a good job - ScarJo was good, but not what I
imagined the Black Widow to be like, but she *was* hot... And Gwyneth
did her usual impeccable job. Mickey Rourke added weight to what could
have been a cardboard cutout stereotype, and Sam Rockwell's character,
though annoying, was well played.
<|_=00=_|>
The second installment of this Marvel series does not disappoint.
Downey Jr. is once again a hit with a stunning performance as the
narcissistic Tony Stark. This time around Tony is dealing with a health
problem; the same miniature Arc-reactor that is keeping him alive, is
also killing him. The metal needed to run the device is poisoning him.
Stark starts down a destructive path until helped out by Sam Fury, who
surfaced in the after-the-credits spoiler of the first movie, and the
drop-dead gorgeous Scarlett Johansson. Don Cheadle enters as the
replacement for Terrence Howard as Stark's best bud Jim Rhodes. Mikey
Rourke continues his action-movie prowess as the villain and Rhodes and
Stark team up as Iron man and War Machine to bring him down. An
action-packed thriller, Iron Man 2 keeps all on the edge of their
seats.

Also of note, fans of the upcoming Avengers movie, based off the Stan
Lee superhero team, will enjoy the not-so-subtle look at Captain
America's shield and of the after-the-credits allusion to a Thor movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The new Iron Man sequel has attracted quite a bit of hype. Most of us
were surprised back in 2008 that the first film had turned out not only
bearable but pretty solid. The first film had walked the line between
serious origin story and self-spoofing comic book comedy. The new film
does the same and walks the delicate line between tension and comedic
relief just as well as its predecessor.

Downey Jr. is back as Tony Stark one of the first super-heroes to forgo
a secret identity. This eliminates what I feel is one of the weakest
gimmicks of the superhero genre, the secret identity to "protect your
loved ones". Ever notice how Peter Parker doesn't want to tell MJ who
he is because she'd be in danger BUT she ends up in danger anyway? Same
for Lois Lane or Rachel Dawes in Nolan's batman films. Iron Man doesn't
bother with the secret identity and the story is better off for it.
Instead the film focuses on the actual character of Tony Stark,
including the character flaws he is known for and his relationship with
his Father.

The plot is really about the "Sins of the Father" passing on to the
son. The Father of the film's villain has been wronged by Stark's
Father and this leads to a high-tech revenge story. The acting is okay
although I felt the script, at times, gave the actors little to work
with. Even in the scenes that were fizzling out into boredom a joke or
two would be thrown in to spice things up and reengage the audience.
Whoever they had treat the script did a bang up job with quips,
innuendos, gags and one-liners a plenty. These corny quips would be out
of place in most movies but in a summer comic book blockbuster they are
a MUST.

Cheadle takes over from Terrence Howard as Colonel James Rhodes and
while I feel he lacks the charisma Howard exuded in the first film he
still does a solid job as Tony's new sidekick. The film also goes
deeper into Tony's involvement with SHIELD, the legendary organization
that will eventually set up the AVENGERS. Scarlett Johansson also does
well in her role though honestly her beauty leaped off the IMAX screen
so much I could barely concentrate on her dialogue when she was on
screen.

All in all the plot clips along nicely, never dwelling on the boring
for too long but not letting the fast pace of the film take away from
telling a good story. The Special Effects are incredible of course and
some of the action scenes had the audience I saw the film with
applauding. I feel the film lives up to its predecessor in almost every
way and is easily worth an 8 out of 10. A solid superhero movie. I hope
to see more of Iron Man on the big screen.

Also, stay after the credits for a mini-sneak peak of one of the next
super-heroes to get his own movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Iron Man 2 is everything a summer movie should be, and much, much more.
There's a serious subtext to the story and it leaps out of the very
first moments of the film. The playboy, hard-drinking, fast-talking,
now public superhero (and all the pitfalls of such fame) thrills from
opening scene until the last.

The movie gets everything right but maybe its number one strength is
the casting. Downey again brings a winning personality to play as
Stark; he finds his pathos, too. Don Cheadle certainly has the acting
chops to hang with Downey as does Mickey Rourke. Rourke's Whiplash is
the perfect foil and perfect villain because he's no one dimensional
character. His Whiplash is on a par with Heath Ledger's Joker (but with
less screen time). Sam Rockwell is also perfect in his role. Gwyneth
Paltrow and Scarlett Johansson add more sex appeal than any summer film
in memory (what outfits for Scarlett) but they also deliver real
performances. Pepper Potts is every bit the wise yet sexy match for
Stark. The interaction and the relationships all work well and is one
of the highlights of the entire movie. All the dialogue is superb. You
would expect nothing less from a Jon Favreau film. (Who's also great as
Happy Hogan, that fight scene raiding Hammer HQ is priceless!) A lot of
superhero comic book movies seem to share a problem in tone. Most films
try to cope with wild concepts by emphasizing darkness, even
over-emphasizing it. IM2 is darker than the first but keeps in line
with the wonderful tone it already established for this character and
universe. Again, Iron Man's creators mix everything so well. It leans
towards dark but touches on every other tone and emotion. Maybe it's
the character or maybe it's because they had Downey's talents to play
with but Downey's performance leads to more clever banter and genuinely
fun dialogue than most other movies have ever delivered, regardless of
genre. So much of the humor works because of this and all the dramatic
beats really click. Downey's Stark is glib and even obnoxious at times
but he never loses his likability and grows in to something more,
drinking problems, fear of dying and all. That's true character
establishment and development in a summer film!!!! What's also rare for
any popcorn movie is that most every plot turn carries some emotional
weight. This is what you get when you mix great acting talent with
outstanding material. They make it shine and give you a remarkable
summer movie. Oh yeah and Iron Man kicks butt again both with and
against War Machine! The CG is perfect and the action is intense and
very well done. That's no shocker. What was a pleasant surprise was
that Iron Man 2 is now officially in the running for best movie of the
year, again regardless of genre.
<|_=00=_|>
Iron Man 2 delivers action with great emotional moments and a movie
that lives up to all the hype it has generated. It hits a high standard
of excellence by combining humor, a complex plot, breathtaking action
sequences, a heavy dose of self discovery and realization, betrayal,
forgiveness, love and puts it all together in one amazing package. All
too infrequently, a much hyped blockbuster hits the mark with such
power that it resonates above all others. Iron Man 2 is such a movie.
Much like the first film, it's truly deep and complex but sacrifices
none of the fun. The inner turmoil worked well, the beautiful thing is
that we can relate to each character, especially that of Tony Stark.
Stark's indomitable charm mixed with his flawed character makes this
hero more interesting then most. Mark my words; Iron Man 2 is a movie
people will be talking about all year if not for years to come. Iron
Man 2 delivers action with great emotional moments and a movie that
lives up to all the hype it has generated.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard that Iron Man was being made into a movie, I didn't
care much, but I still wanted to see it because of the action. I also
chose to see it because Robert Downey Jr. was playing the role of Iron
Man/Tony Stark. I've been a fan of Rob since Chaplin, that was truly a
masterpiece, he can work the English accent perfectly. I always thought
he was English because the first movie I saw with him was Natural Born
Killers, but he was obviously Australian in that.

Anyways, I finished watching the movie and I was blown away by the
sheer awesomeness of it. So, I chose to go back on my comic book hobby
that I used to have 8 years ago. I first picked up on the World's Most
Wanted storyline that is part of the Dark Reign event. I was hooked, so
I decided that Iron Man is my new favourite Marvel hero, next to Blade,
they're on the same level of epic. I read a famous story arc called
"Extremis". I LOVED IT! I loved the dark tone to it, the virus created
by Pharmlabs in Austin, Texas somehow slipped into some criminal's
hands and he went haywire. Iron Man saved the day by taking the same
dose of Extremis, he and the suit TRULY BECAME ONE, just like he says
at the Senate conference in this movie. I won't say much because you'll
love reading it, and it's really fun acting out the captions.

Anyways, the next storyline I'm reading is Civil War, it's interesting
to see his position in all of it. I still have 74 issues to go. My
point is, if you're an Iron Man fan like me, and if you read the comics
(which REALLY helped) then you will consider this the best movie in
move-making history. I certainly do, we will see how the Avengers can
top this, but I know Iron Man 3 will top Iron Man 2.

Now, onto the movie. The intro starts off really well, with recordings
from the ending of the first film where he announces that he is indeed
Iron Man. It then cuts to Moscow, Russia where we get to see Whiplash's
character intro. Truly sad to see the hand dealt to his father, Anton,
apparently his father worked with Howard Stark, Tony Stark's father,
and somewhere along the line, Howard took Anton's ideas and kicked him
to the curb, in the Russian ghetto. Whiplash swore revenge on this, and
let me just say the way the Monaco scene was setup was just AMAZING.

On top of the movie being awesome, it even added humour to it, just
like in the last one. Happy Hogan gets more screen time and lines. We
get to see more of Nick Fury and the sexy, and seductive, Black Widow
just to put the cherry on top. Justin Hammer, rival competitor to Tony
Stark and Stark Industries wants to conquer over Stark Industries with
H.A.M.M.E.R. advanced weapons systems. But he knows that he can never
get the praise and approval of the public like Tony gets. It triggers
his ego to go haywire, he truly needs Tony to succeed with his company.

Moving on to the plot which is very well done and fantastic. This is a
Marvel fan's wet dream come true. It combines the story lines of Armor
Wars and Demon in a Bottle. Tony Stark's arc reactor is keeping him
alive and killing him now, at the same time. He needs to come up with a
solution and a new suit, which he does later in the course of the plot.
This film is truly a masterpiece directed by none other than the
prestigious Jon Favreau. Him and Robert are the DREAM TEAM as I like to
call it.

The audience was cheering was laughter, enjoyment and praise. They gave
it a standing ovation after the movie was over, a theatre full of joy.
I must admit, I really do envy Robert Downey Jr. for the kind of man he
is. He has been dealt with the hand of jail and he has had his own
little demon in a bottle experience,but the got back up on top, along
with Mickey Rourke and has been given a second chance, and he took it.

The acting was superb by all the cast members. The special effects and
action had fans like myself drooling for more of it, just to appreciate
the sheer beauty of it. I can guarantee you that this movie will make A
LOT of money, maybe even over 1 billion and I hope it does because of
the incredible hype it has received and well deserved too.

The movie has a special Captain America easter egg and a secret ending
after the credits. So stay in your seats. The music was very well done
and in the right moments.

Iron Man 2 gets my envy and full respect. This is truly the movie of
the year, and possibly the decade until Iron Man 3 can top it off.
People asked has the Dark Knight set standards too high for comic book
movies? I'd say it didn't set them high enough, Iron Man 2 SURPASSES
TDK in every way possible. This movie is godly. Rob and Jon are the
dream team, never forget that people and Hollywood. They are the future
of the movie industry. LONG LIVE IRON MAN!

P.S. 

Oh and as of this year from May 6th to May 10th, you should all
celebrate IRON MAN DAYS. On those four days, celebrate the great
achievement Stan Lee and Jack Kirby has created.
