
This was great entertainment, Story:well scripted to avoid the many
pitfalls the this kind of movie could have fallen in to. More layering
and character development that you could ever expect from a film like
this. Acting: no Oscars gonna be won here... but hey it's a JCVD flick
and he and the rest of the cast do a good job in it. Action (fights):
No Jason Bourne, or Taken, but pretty close!, you can see how much went
in to choreography and rehearsal, very well done. Production: Nice
cutting, great timing, superb use of location. Maybe the only weakish
spot was the score, it sometimes felt out of context and/or
under-produced.

Anyway: Director sure knew what he was doing here, and i liked it a
lot.

Please Mr Hymas (Sr and Jr?) find a big budget, a great script and go
do a Jason Bourne movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I really really did not want to see this movie, but boy am I glad I
did. It was very well directed, well acted (for the most part), and
well shot. I would have gladly paid 10 bucks to see this on the big
screen. The problem is I (and most people) didn't know it until after
we had seen it. After the god awful sequels I thought this outing would
be the same garbage. John Hyams created a much darker bleak Universal
Soldier that out shines the first installment. He has a very bright
career ahead of him. The world he created in this film has the same
look and feel as Terminator Salvation did. In fact this film is as good
if not better than T4. Mainly because it had nothing to live up to. All
the fight scenes were top notch, and graphically violent (which is a
good thing). Even Dolph Lundgren was interesting. And near the end of
the film there is a shot, of JVCD standing in front of a doorway
looking at the kids that are his mission, that is just amazing. If you
do not like action films you won't have any fun, but if you do your in
for a real treat. You can give it a rent, or the better option would be
to buy it on blu-ray. It's just a shame we can't see it on the big
screen. Because after all these years JVCD finally has an action film
thats worthy of it.
<|_=00=_|>
In the third and by now the last Universal Soldier series, both Van
Damme and Dolph Lundgren are back for one last showdown together.

This time they are both in a different place a different time for a
different reason. But with the same anger and history.

So, is it any good? Well, being a STV and the fact that i's filmed in
Bulgaria, it's pretty good actually.

I would say that it's not by far the same as the first Universal
Soldier, but still good old action fun with two old action stars.

Anyways, good action, so so on the story and some cool violence and
effects. The movie were kinda fun.

I'll rate it 7 out of 10 stars, cause I like Van Damme and Dolph
Lundgren. :)
<|_=00=_|>
The opening scene blew me away!! Absolutely amazing action at the
beginning. Andrei (Pitbull) Arlovski stole the show with a great action
performance. JCVD had a smaller role than the previous film and did a
solid performance. I was disappointed that Dolph Lundgren's role was so
small but he did a great job. The long fight sequence between Dolph and
JCVD had some amazing parts as well.

The action at the beginning is by far the best; yet the film continues
to deliver till the very end. I especially appreciate the minimal use
of dialog. Extensive dialog was not needed for this film and was not
included (useless and excessive dialog drives me nuts in action films).

*************SPECIALIZED CRITIQUE TO FILL SPACE!!**************** 

My only complaint was the tactics, weapons and armor employed by the US
Army forces in the film. The weapons used by the Army forces appear to
be the fully automatic M16A1 (with after market banana clips) which was
used in the Vietnam War. The Army now uses the M16A4 with a 30 round
magazine (slightly curved but not banana style) which is not fully
automatic (Burst/Semi/Single) and Infantry are trained to rely
primarily on well place single shots leaving the fully auto fire to the
240B or the SAW Gunners.

Additionally the US Army relies heavily on night-time operations thus
ALL combat troops are equipped with Night Vision Devices. Mid day
attacks are rarely ever performed especially against a heavily embedded
enemy force. None of the "good guys" had night vision devices.

The US Army ubiquitously uses the Interceptor System of body armor
which utilizes heavy ceramic plates in front and back of the soldier to
protect from small arms fire and to minimize wounds from explosions.
The soldiers in the film appear to wear simple Kevlar.

Furthermore Recon operations are never performed by a single operator
but by small silent teams (2 or 4 men) moving slowly, smoothly and
silently together. The lone Recon guy's equipment, weapon, and
movements were completely wrong and his equipment made way too much
noise.

I guess my main complaint would be the Director didn't do his research
when it came to a large portion of his film. This is a common complaint
for me in most movies which attempt to show modern US Army tactics and
weapons. You would think that with all the unemployed Iraq War veterans
out there they could find a few to advise them on their films.

************************************** 

Ultimately Universal Soldier: Regeneration was an enjoyable film. I
read one snobbish review relegating it to "B" movie oblivion yet I
found the movie to be better than most "A" action movies coming out of
Hollywood.

Congrats to Dolph and JCVD for a great movie I hope to see more films
of this quality from both!
<|_=00=_|>
World wide terrorism is fast becoming the stereotypical plot for new
age films. They could be about corrupt inner governments, renegade
police or as in this case, rebellious disenchanted rogue soldiers. The
film is entitled " Universal Soldier: Regeneration. " This is part
three and as with the original premises, dead soldiers who died in
armed combat, were stored in cryogenic coffins, revived, repaired and
returned to duty. In this third sequel, Russian terrorists have the
added help of NGU's or New Generation Universal Soldiers which are
improved, re-generated, deadlier soldiers. Dolph Lundgren returns as
Andrew Scott and Andrei Arlovski, have kidnapped the children of the
Russian Premier. In addition, radical soldiers, have also seized
control over the Cernobal nuclear power plant. Together it poses a
world wide threat when the rebels promise to detonate a huge bomb
there, which will release a massive dangerous radioactive cloud across
the world. In response, the governments activate some elite soldiers of
their own including their former Universal soldier, Luc Deveraux
(Jean-Claude Van Damme) who has under gone DE-programing, to combat the
threat. The film is an improvement over the original in both drama and
excellent acting. Ludgren and Van Dammn should be complimented on
re-visiting former roles. With sufficient action, excitement and a
generous supply of physical confrontation, the movie does a good job of
keeping an audience entertained. ****
<|_=00=_|>
After the disappointment of Universal 2 I was afraid this would be just
as bad or maybe worse. To my surprise it ended up being a pretty good
action movie. The story is straight forward. A situation arises and
requires the return of Luck (Van Damme). The fighting scenes are pretty
well crafted and the return of Lundgren was quite enjoyable. I suppose
I need to remind people again that these types of movies are not
intended to change the world! They are action movies and should be
reviewed as such. As far as the bad, the story is really basic and the
movie is a little short. I was pleasantly surprised by the acting
overall. Yeah there is almost no dialogue, but Lundgren and Van Damme
seemed to have learned a little bit about their craft. I hope Van Damme
continues to make these types of movies and I look forward to one of
them getting a serious theatrical release. It's been a long times since
one of these movies has hit the big screen. I for one would love to
support this type of movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Amazingly enough I went into this movie thinking it would be complete
crap because of JCVD and Dolph "I can't act" Ludgren, but it was much
better than a lot of other action movies, including Terminator:
Salvation.

A lot of people might be hesitant because of the conflicting reviews,
but ignore the whole "This is bad because it has Jean Claude in it..."
stigma and you might be as surprised as I was after watching it. In
fact, I found myself watching it a few times again because, through and
through, it's an extremely engaging film.

What actually shocked me is that it covers an important social issue of
terrorism versus political tyranny; using terrorism to maintain (and
gain) freedom as well as capitalist control of armies without nations.
Yeah, it's a movie that actually covers something important about
sociality.

As a lot of other people pointed out, though, Jean Claude and Dolph
only lend their faces for brief (in Dolph's case) and extended (in
Jean's case) cameos. This film is not really about the aging action
heroes but rather, they play a part in the outcome of things, very
similar to Snipe's role in Blade 2.

As for quality...the movie is shot to look like the Bourne Identity and
even has a cool chase scene like it, too. All the action is depicted
with startling realism and all fist-fights result in such because
people either run out of ammo or get too close to use weapons. In other
words, all the fight scenes in this movie make a heck of a lot of sense
and are very realistic and practical. Added to this, the musical score
is extremely fitting to the science-fiction overtones.

Overall, this movie is leaps and bounds better than every other
Universal Soldier movie made before it and actually takes itself
serious enough to deserve better praise than what it's been receiving.
<|_=00=_|>
After JCVD movie I was pretty curious the next step. Actually, I can
not deny the fact I became disappointed having seen action production
for Mr Van Damme, rather than art films. But, one for the art, some
others for the money... So, liking also Mr Lundgren I was sad not to
have new Universal Soldier movie in cinemas. After watching this part,
I must say, this is far better than the most was screened this year.

What is the secret? 

Good directing, good photographer, good stunts, good timing, good
atmosphere. And most of all, Mr Van Damme is great, and acts, and Mr
Lundgren, well, just listen how he starts to speak, and his short
monologue... 

It is a really good thing in the plot that... well, just see it...:) 

To sum up, matured actors can make good movies with good director, good
script, good editing, good cameramen, and so on. And this happens here. 

And the supporting cast? I haven't even recognized it was filmed in
Bulgaria, and honestly, you watch a Van Damme film for Him, and this is
also a great point of the directing that... :) 

So watch it, and you will like it mainly because of Van Damme and
Lundgren. :)
<|_=00=_|>
15 minutes into this, I noticed something strange. I didn't want to
turn it off which is pretty rare when talking about most of Van Damme's
movies over the past decade. The thing that might kill this movie with
some fans is that it is so different from the great original...tons
better then the turd of a 2nd one though. It is not a polished
Terminator type action flick like the original was. It is much grittier
and with some of the locations and fights, it almost has more of a
Bourne style feeling to it (not as good of course) with Unisols. The
action is well directed...very quick with no dopey slow motion. Even
the acting is decent. The main reason for that probably is that the
film makers wisely let those actors with accents actually keep them.
Too often, they try and hide them horribly and it comes off as a
terrible performance. Another thing is that they used subtitles for the
terrorists which adds a little authenticity...sounds silly I know but
little things like that matter in movies. Mike Pyle is the only one who
sometimes comes of as unconvincing but it doesn't really hurt the
movie. It is true that Van Damme is only sprinkled throughout, but the
film is so fast moving, before you know it, you are already at the
final 40 minutes ...and Van Damme owns the *beep* out of it!! It's a
blast to see Lundgren too even if it is pretty brief. I didn't really
care for how they ended it but it's no big deal. All in all, it is a
solid little action flick. It doesn't compare to the original but is
still a lot of fun and I look forward to owning the bluray. I thought
the music was well done too. Think along the lines of something John
Carpenter might have used in a movie. ***out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
Did the world really need yet another Universal Soldier movie? Well,
no. But at least this one is "official", in the way that it's got the
original ensemble, Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren. This time
we get Andrei "The Pitbull" Arlovski as well.

The story is simple. Terrorists have placed bombs at the abandoned
Chernobyl Nuclear reactor and threatens to blow the place up (thus
exposing the core) if their terms aren't met.

This wouldn't normally be such a problem, but unfortunately they have a
scientist from the Universal Soldier program on board, and he brought
along some of his "experiments": The Next Generation Universal Soldier
(NGU). And so the original, Luc (Van Damme) is found and brought into
action again. But he will not face only one, but two Universal
adversaries.

Sure, the movie is predictable and clichéd to oblivion, but somehow I
found it to be pretty entertaining. There is also a long cut with Van
Damme kicking ass which I first believed would be done in one long
take. Unfortunately it wasn't. It was still a relatively long take, and
kudos to the directors for that.

In the end we have a fairly polished B-movie. Effects are reasonably
well done, acting is mostly pretty pathetic, but it's all quite
entertaining in its own way. I give the movie 7 out of 10 which is
based on the fact that it's a b-movie (straight to video) and the fact
that I didn't really expect much from it. Solid effort.
