
Millions, two huge stars, a director with a reputation and a fictional
sounding name, and of course, Venice! Nothing works, nothing! The
chemistry between Depp and Jolie is virtually non existent. She is
dressed in ridiculous, supposedly elegant, gowns but she looks as if
she's wearing costumes. Remember Audrey Hepburn? She was never worn by
her dresses, she was ahead. The dialog is not to be believed - Julian
Fellowes is listed among the writers but, I can't believe it's true.
The meet-cute on the train, done so beautifully in th past by a variety
of directors and stars, falls flat here, flat! Johnny Depp is one of my
favorites but here he looks puffy and detached. How can anyone managed
to make Depp look bad? I don't know but they did. Jolie is a big star
but here, she seems unused to wear dresses. I couldn't believe her walk
through Venice. "Hot to Trot" comes o mind. Imagine, Audrey Hepburn
walking purposely through Venice in a ball gown. Or Carole Lombard, or
Grace Kelly, or Loren or Deneuve, Gene Tirney, Kay Kendall... I can
think of dozens. This was really bad. The only saving grace a running
joke that has Depp's character, not speaking Italian, speaks Spanish to
the Italians and the Italians respond in Spanish, specially the scene
with Christian De Sica (son of Vittorio) in which De Sica replays "De
nada" So, the lesson learned is the eternal clich√©. Not everything that
glitters is gold. And this one, from a distance, glittered, big time
<|_=00=_|>
Considering the fact that Johnny Depp and Angelina Jolie are two of the
biggest stars in the world, you may have at one time flippantly
claimed, "I'd pay $10 just to watch them read the phone book!" Well, if
you decide to ignore my advice then you'll have the chance to put the
equivalent of that theory to the test if you lay down your hard-earned
dinero to see The Tourist.

Displaying the focus of an attention deficit schizophrenic, The Tourist
weaves its way through an odd mixture of romantic, comedic, and
mysterious elements. I have no problem with a film that embraces
multiple genres, as long as it can do so effectively. The problem with
this film is I was never sure what type of reaction the film wanted to
evoke. The romantic orchestra soars one moment, we're treated to a few
slapstick shenanigans the next, and then comes the brooding minor key
to remind us that there's a mysteriously mysterious mystery afoot! I
would not have been shocked had Rowan Atkinson made an appearance.

Plus, the "climactic" twist isn't as clever as it thinks. I suppose one
might be forgiven if he or she finds it cutesy, but even if you do fall
for it, by the time it arrives your interest will be too detached to
care.

Eliciting little more than a few chuckles and a whole lot of apathy,
The Tourist makes its mark as one of this year's most pointless and
useless films. I can't single anything out as being truly awful, but
neither can I think of a single reason why you should consider spending
$10 a pop on a film that offers absolutely nothing new to the cinematic
universe. The Italian backdrop is nice to look at, and Jolie and Depp
are adequate, if not dynamic in their chemistry, but it takes more than
the visual image of Depp traversing rooftops barefooted and in
grandpa's pajamas to be deemed worthy of my time.

Entertain, engage, educate, or humor me. That's all I ask. The Tourist
decided to go with "none of the above," therefore I encourage you to
think twice before making this your selection.
<|_=00=_|>
Opening day (a Friday) enough of the critical reviews I read were
negative enough, that I was asking 2 friends if they wanted to switch
films - money is tight, yah know? But we agreed there was nothing wrong
with checking The Tourist out, at worst there would be some eye candy.

Once again, I'm glad I blew the critics off - it's not that the
negative reviews are wrong, exactly. There ARE too many scenes of
entire rooms of people turning around to look at Jolie, like a perfume
commercial (or someone with toilet paper stuck to their behind).
Characters and relationships aren't fleshed out enough, and it's a
predictable film - North by Northwest is far superior.

But. As one critic said, it's a frothy diversion, pleasant and fun.
Thought the rumpled Depp was low-key and charming, and Jolie was
gorgeous and a sympathetic character. There are some amusing twists,
and our fairly full theater laughed a lot and was entertained by the
film; at no point did any of us lose interest. There are far worse ways
to spend a Friday night, and I'd recommend to anyone looking for some
diversion and gorgeous views of Venice. Good for anyone looking to
unwind after a long hard week.
<|_=00=_|>
This ugly little piece of slam dunk marketing featuring present day
reigning sex symbols Angelina Jolie and Johnnny Depp in a tepid
suspensor revolving around missing cash is a clunker from the get go.
It's all face time for the hotties which I surmise are supposed to turn
up the heat based on their good looks alone since the vapid plot and
predictable pursuers lack even a scintilla of originality or suspense.
It is a cynical cash grab by all involved. As Fats Waller would say
"all that meat and no potatoes."

Woman of mystery Elise Ward (Jolie) boards a train bound for Venice
where she enlists Frank Tupelo (Depp) as a useful idiot to help her
elude the law and the mob to rendezvous with an accomplice who has made
off with an obscene amount of money. The chase is on but the pace along
with just about everything else is off.

Jolie has a mega fatale look but her dialog is trite and she delivers
it with a comatose inflection that more or less says, with a face and
body like this whose listening? She's more runway model in the middle
of a show than character of intrigue morphing at times into a stunning
and stilted statue. Depp looks bored and non-committal with his rube
appointed resume (Wisconsin math teacher) and scruffy look that suaves
up in time to get into a clinch with Ms. Jolie, nearly matching her
lifelessness. 

Director Florian von Donnersmark is a major disappointment. The Tourist
is his follow-up to one of the finest films of this early century,
Other Peoples Lives and the drop off in cinematic skill and suspense is
equivalent to falling off of Everest. Lives, a sober but suspenseful
crafted work dealing with the dreaded Stasi in drab East Germany was
everything this sloppy escapist drivel isn't. Bad career choice or one
hit wonder von Donnermark has only this to show output wise over the
last four years and it's downright ghostly. 

The Tourist is one bad trip of a movie that smugly attempts to
overwhelm you with its stars and locale while paying cursory attention
to story, detail and substance. It is a callous, bland product example
of producer condescension for an audience that will settle for the
crumbs of something that looks great but runs lousy. It should do just
fine at the box office.
<|_=00=_|>
As if that's even possible.

Ignore the trailers... and the critics. This isn't a thriller, and it
never tries to be. It is, wholeheartedly, a comedy. Anyone who missed
that must have been watching a different film, because it's funny - in
fact, it's hysterical. But not because it's "so bad it's good". No,
it's totally intentional. The lines are funny, the pauses are funny,
the actors are funny... it's like a younger, slightly subtler, Venetian
version of Red. What's not to like? 

We're all used to seeing Johnny Depp and Angelina Jolie in dramatic
roles - Finding Neverland, Public Enemies, The Changeling, A Mighty
Heart... and it's so easy to forget that they can be funny. But they
are, both of them. Johnny shines, as he always does. Angelina Jolie
looks glorious, and when she smiles, the screen lights up. They don't
have chemistry, critics say. Oh yes, they do, I say. More importantly,
they seem to be enjoying themselves.

Johnny's Frank is delightful, touching and slightly mysterious. He has
endless room to play around, and makes Frank memorable, and lovely, as
only Johnny can. Angelina's role is more limiting, but she still makes
it fresh and - yes - deeply amusing, parodying both herself and the
genre in general. Watching her saunter around on her high heels, one
can't help but recall what James Bond used to be like. This isn't
Wanted or Salt: she has far more to do here than look cryptic and shoot
people, and she does it very well.

Add to that the utterly magnificent Paul Bettany, Timothy Dalton, a few
stereotypically dim Russian gangsters (they speak actual Russian, for
once, and their funniest lines aren't subtitled) and Rufus Sewell, and
there's no way you can go wrong.

Yes, there's a twist at the end - a twist that seemed to annoy most
people. But does that take away from the film? No! It adds to it,
because it's just so obvious, and natural, that it's all the funnier
for it. 

This isn't an intellectual film. Nor does it try to be. It's a romp, a
fun romp with two beautiful, endlessly talented actors, set in a
beautiful city (which is shot so beautifully that it becomes like a
separate character). So who cares how intellectual it is? This is a
film that's genuinely entertaining, from start to finish. And if it's
snowing where you are, you'll certainly appreciate the sunshine. Give
it a chance!
<|_=00=_|>
Imagine a movie, imagine that movie stars two of the hottest
commodities in Hollywood and add a sensual, somewhat dark
French-thriller plot. If you did that, you would have the trailer for
The Tourist, and it would sound like a pretty good movie, right? But
then if you take away the words "dark" and "thriller" and realized that
those sought after actors were actually last minute replacements, then
you would have the actual movie.

The Tourist stars Angelina Jolie and Johnny Depp in what appears to be
a very promising plot. Jolie plays Elise, a beautiful and mysterious
woman who ensnares spy-fiction fan Frank Tupelo (Depp) into his very
own web of international crime and intrigue. Under the orders of Chief
Inspector Jones (Timothy Dalton) Scotland Yard's John Acheson played by
Paul Bettany (The Da Vinci Code, A Beautiful Mind) tries his best to
keep up Elise and the man he believes she is connected to¬ÖAlexander
Pearce.

For what sounds like a fantastic plot on paper, the execution of it all
leaves a little something to be desired. Perhaps the problem is with
expectations. As stated before, the premise and the trailer and two
actors who typically take on fairly meaty roles suggests that The
Tourist would at least have hints of substance, instead the audience is
left with a beautiful and¬Öfun movie that is essentially summer action
fluff ¬ñ think The Italian Job meets Knight and Day.

The problems with the film almost assuredly were the result of
apparently several casting and directorial issues during
pre-production. Depp's role was reportedly originally slated for Tom
Cruise, who was replaced by Sam Worthington who dropped out over
"creative differences" and ultimately was replaces by Johnny Depp.
Angelina Jolie's character was also apparently intended for someone
else¬Önone other than Academy Award winning actress Charlize Theron. The
director, German born - Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck (Director of
the Academy Award winning film The Lives of Others) also was a
replacement and who he himself dropped out at one point, only to resume
his directorial role later on. It seems that for whatever reason, no
one wanted to be a part of this film.

The Tourist certainly has its strong points. The visuals are simply
stunning, whether that describes the beautiful European vistas, lavish
homes and hotels or the lead actors, there is definitely eye candy
everywhere. The action scenes are exciting and even the dialogue has
some charm. However it seems that for every peak there is a valley. The
Tourist like its pre-production story seems to have a bit of an
identity crisis. At times the film feels intense and brooding, other
times it feels like a carefree romp through the waterways of Venice.
The dialogue and script have their moments of wit and charm while other
parts feel like a reject Bond script. The Tourist is by no means a
perfect film, however going in with realistic expectations; it may be
just the way to end your night or your week
<|_=00=_|>
I was looking forward to "The Tourist" Depp and Jolie in a "Charade"
like romp. Well, not such luck. Seems as if the director has never even
seen a Stanley Donen movie. Not a single moment of fun. Not one!
Angelina Jolie behaves like a first time model wearing dresses that
were meant for someone else. Atrocious is the word that comes to mind.
I haven't been this embarrassed for actor since Vince Vaughn as Norman
Bates in the remake of "Psycho" Her lines and her delivery are worthy
of an amateur, and the script? Goodness, gracious, me! How can this
possibly be? Even Venice looks banal. Depp manages a couple of moments
but doesn't look well as if we were looking at the movie in the wrong
ratio. 15 $ a ticket. I'm so mad! Glimpses of famous (in Italy) Italian
actors including Alessio Boni (from The Best Of Youth) add to the
depression I felt sitting through this. They must have thought "a big
Hollywood movie with Jolie, Depp and the director of "The Lives Of
Others" what a break! Well I was fooled myself. Unforgivable!
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) Elise (Angelina Jolie) randomly sits next to an American
tourist, Frank (Johnny Depp), on a Venice-bound train. The police have
been following Elise for over two years waiting for her to contact her
lover, who embezzled over $2 Billion from a mobster. The British
Economic Police want to collect its share (taxes) of over $775 Million
to be paid on this money. Frank, a math teacher, and Elise must evade
the police, and also the mobster who's money was stolen.

(My Comment) This movie is unlike many that Angelina Jolie has played
in, in that she is involved in very little action. Johnny Depp has a
few minor action scenes. Most of the time Angelina walks around looking
beautiful, and Johnny is like a lost puppy, almost as if they phoned in
their parts. It isn't a totally bad movie; because it only has a little
action and a poorly written dialogue for these talented actors. The
storyline is not complicated; the mobster's money man steals a large
amount of his money, and he is now on the run for his life, plus the
police want him too. The movie contains some beautiful panorama scenery
of Venice. Overall, the movie is not what you would expect, but it kept
my attention, and it is a little entertaining. By the way, there is a
story twist that you may figure out for yourself before the end. (Sony
Pictures, Run Time 1:45, Rated PG-13) (4/10)
<|_=00=_|>
The only reason that I saw this film was because a friend of mine
forgot his ID at home and couldn't go see the movie we wanted to see.
Forced to pick another film, we decided on "The Tourist." How bad could
this Jolie and Depp film be? Both have been great before. Depp was good
in that first pirate movie way back when, but the sequels were just
annoying and I haven't been impressed by anything he's done since. If
Jolie really took this movie because it would be a "'quick shoot' in
Venice" (See trivia), she really needs to sort out her priorities as a
professional actress.

Nothing in this movie was realistic. None of it was believable. The
plot was your typical action movie: Someone's money gets stolen, they
want it back, someone will get killed if it isn't returned, there's
some romance, good guy wins. The "twist" isn't even a real twist; they
hint at it earlier in the movie and it continues to be something you
consider, so when you realize it's true you feel like you already knew.
How is that a twist? It's not.

I'm thoroughly convinced that the only reason people will see this film
is because of Depp and Jolie. Neither gave a good or even convincing
performance. Both were flat. If the entire world weren't in love with
the two thespians, this movie would have flopped. I suppose it was just
lucky that everyone thinks Angelina Jolie is a goddess.

Don't go see this film. It was a waste of a ticket fee.
<|_=00=_|>
'THE TOURIST': Two and a Half Stars (Out of Five) 

Two of Hollywood's biggest stars (Johnny Depp and Angelina Jolie) team
up for this goofy spy thriller. It's a remake of a 2005 French film
entitled 'ANTHONY ZIMMER' which starred Sophie Marceau and Yvan Attal.
The American remake is co-written and directed by Florian Henckel von
Donnersmark who also directed the critically acclaimed German film 'THE
LIVES OF OTHERS'. I have not seen that film but his writing and
directing here is pretty weak. Pretty much the only good thing this
film has going for it is it's two stars (and a decent supporting cast
including Paul Bettany and Timothy Dalton) but it really has me
wondering what ever attracted the two to this film to begin with! 

Jolie plays Elise, the beautiful mistress of a mafia money-man who
embezzled over $2 billion from a big time mobster (played by Steven
Berkoff). The British police want the embezzler for it's share of the
$775 million in tax money on the stolen money. They don't know what
their target looks like though so they've been trailing Elise for a
couple years hoping she'll lead them to their man. After receiving a
note from her lover Elise sits next to a random American tourist named
Frank (Depp) on a train hoping to lead the police into believing he's
the culprit but she unwittingly gets him targeted by the mafia as well
placing him in grave danger. Of course the two quickly fall for each
other (despite the extreme lack of chemistry between the two leads).

The story is pretty simple and routine but it does have a couple clever
twists towards the end and the climax is enjoyable. There are a few
funny lines here and there (mostly by Depp) but for the most part the
dialog is less than impressive. The direction is uninspired and the
film feels like a million other mistaken identity movies we've already
seen before. Depp is funny though and Jolie looks gorgeous. Like many
big star combinations in film the movie is a disappointment though. If
only they had picked a better project together the combined talent
could have made for a truly entertaining film. I expect more from Jolie
and a lot more from Depp. I seriously don't know what they were
thinking, other than maybe what they were going to spend their money
on.

Watch our review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=68YJe1yftWY
