
I AM female. I love to watch a good chic-flick. However, I was so
disappointed. This movie has little to offer except constantly changing
'bizarre' costuming presented as high fashion and thoroughly
embarrassing 'ugly American' scenes of over-indulged, entitled and
rudely written characters. I went to the theater to enjoy a fun movie.
I came away shaking my head. The movie was disrespectful to me as an
American woman. Who acts like Samantha when in a foreign country, the
Middle East or otherwise? As I watched the characters make total asses
of themselves I was embarrassed for them simply sitting in the theater.
It's no wonder other countries believe Americans lack respect for
everyone and everything. Hollywood apparently does and wants everyone
to know it. Unfortunately, the general public is judged by
Hollywood--the American delivery system. It's not worth the money to
see it. If you can get it on DVD for a buck, then judge for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
My sister and I were so excited about going to this movie. With the
recession, the loss of jobs and general pessimism of late - the thought
of dressing up, drinking cocktails and watching a great movie in the
company of a whole room full of women like us was excellent. We
desperately wanted to love the movie.

Initially, everyone seemed to be in good form  a bit of a cheer when
Mr. Big came on screen; gasps and giggles in response to the first few
jokes.then uncomfortable silence. My sister squirmed in the seat
beside me through the horrible 'I am woman' song. Having visited the
Middle East myself (and enjoyed the cultural experience and friendly
people; albeit with a different outlook on life) I was pretty appalled
at the blatant lack of propriety exercised by the four.

I have to admit when the movie ended, all the women around me turned to
each other and said it was 'great'  I don't think we were ready to
admit that it was possibly the biggest disappointment ever. My sister
and I had planned to talk about the outfits and scenarios afterwe
completely avoided the topic. We had all looked forward to this movie 
we couldn't admit to ourselves (never mind anyone else) that it was
awful.

To say I loved the original show is an understatement. As I enter my
late twenties/early thirties, the reruns are even more relevant. The
characters in the show discussed sexuality in a fresh, exciting way.
They were women you could look up to  intelligent, confident,
self-assured. They bear zero resemblance to the four self-indulgent,
disrespectful, two dimensional creatures I had to watch.

I doubt any fan will take my advice and not go  I would have ignored
it myself. The movie seems to symbolise everything that has gone wrong
lately  by blindly pursuing materialism we lose what's really
important. This movie spells that out  and leaves you feeling ashamed
for having loved them so much in the first place. Having said that, I
watched an episode in the series a night later and realised that,
actually, I'm not an idiot  they used to discuss interesting, relevant
issues  just in fabulous clothes.

As an aside, I spent an hour with my sister getting all dressed up to
go, two hours chatting to her before we watched the horror show and
four hours after dancing our socks off. Maybe the fact that was the
best part means I have my priorities right after all.
<|_=00=_|>
Went into this not expecting much, the premise seemed off but wanted to
see my old friends. I told myself everything you're telling yourself,
well the fashion will be fun...there should be some funny stuff...might
get to see a hot naked guy. I had no idea I'd robbed of my ticket money
and insulted for 2 1/2 hours.

I loved the series, seen every show at least 6-7 times. I thought the
first movie was a little disappointing, not very much depth, just
wallowing and moping for most of it.

The new movie is just an exercise in self indulgence and complaining
about problems that aren't really problems. Charlotte complaining about
how hard it is to be her when she has a nanny AND a housekeeper.
Miranda complaining that her boss doesn't like her. Carrie complaining
that Big puts a TV in the bedroom. Samantha complaining about her
hormones. I just kept thinking "are you kidding me?? This passes for
dialogue??". That's all in the first 8 minutes and it's just downhill
from there. I'm just disgusted.

Best part of the movie? The preview for the new Rachel McAdams film
that came on right before it.
<|_=00=_|>
This could be the worst movie ever made. Certainly its the worst I've
seen in a very long time. 

Now, before I begin I have to say that I'm not a fan of the series to
begin with. It had its moments, but as a lifelong resident of Manhattan
I mostly blamed the series for the unbearable influx of wide-eyed
moronic girls from all over the country who flocked to the city en
masse, thinking that upon arrival their lives would instantly revolve
around cosmopolitans, rich men and $1000 shoes, and who very quickly
became insufferable basket cases once the reality of city life actually
set in on them. 

Of course, I saw this movie with my girlfriend, as my good deed for the
week. What I was not prepared for was how horrible it actually was. 

The first ten minutes contained more cliché, stinted dialog, corny
jokes and general awkwardness than I had previously thought possible in
such a short time frame. It was embarrassing. It also involved Liza
Minelli. I thought it couldn't get worse, but oh did it ever. 

Next came the foundation for the entire film, which was that the ladies
were in a funk and needed to get away for a couple of weeks. The funny
thing about that is how they all have impossibly great lives,
especially by NYC standards. They live in massive apartments, have
high-paying careers, plenty of money and for everyone but Samantha,
loving husbands and families. And its not like there was some
substantial existential crisis underpinning their dissatisfaction to
legitimize their feelings and generate sympathy on behalf of the
audience. It all amounted to 'Boohoooo we used to partyyyy all the time
but now we're all grownups waaa pity us'. Literally, that was it.
Sorry, I don't feel bad for you guys. 

So Carrie starts a whole big fight with her husband because he doesn't
feel like going out to some stupid party after working into the evening
and providing her with a lifestyle that includes what appears to be a
$15 million apartment, two luxury cars, an unlimited decorating budget,
a truly massive closet with hundreds of thousands of dollars in
clothes, enough leisure time to write her stupid books AND her old
apartment to write them in. Then he had the NERVE to not buy her
jewelry for their anniversary (she actually said that). It was
completely effing nauseating.

The rest of the women's 'problems' were no better. Charlotte has kids
who drive her crazy. Really groundbreaking stuff there. Especially
since she too lives in a multimillion dollar apartment with a full time
live-in nanny and housekeeper. Pathetic. Miranda has a new boss who
doesn't like her very much, OBVIOUSLY because she's a woman, duh.
There's no other reason for a boss to not like a subordinate other than
their gender, clearly. And finally, Samantha is old and needs to take
hormones for menopause now, stop the presses. Is your heart bleeding
for them yet? No? You must hate women, you sexist. 

Moving right along. Samantha somehow is a mega-PR agent at this point
(in Times Square??), despite the fact that I've literally never seen
her do any work resembling PR (and I know lots of PR people). She meets
some sheik at a party who simply MUST have her work that imaginary PR
magic on behalf of his new hotel, and as a perk of this great new
account, conveniently gets the girls invited to Abu Dhabi. Hooray!
Their dreary despair comes to an end as they're flown ultra-first-class
to the glamorous 'new' middle-east, shuttled to the luxury hotel in
individual Maybach limousines (one for each of them!) and given two
weeks all-expenses-paid in the hotel's premier $22,000/night penthouse
suite, because that is totally standard treatment for PR flacks.
Naturally. 

All is well in this paradise for like a week, until the icky
middle-eastern customs of female oppression begin to rear their ugly
head and Samantha is inevitably arrested for being a giant whore and
having sex on the beach with some Dutch dude, at which point they're
politely informed that Samantha's PR expertise would not be needed
after all, and that they'd be personally responsible for another night
of hotel charges unless they vacated the hotel in one hour. So now
these four extremely wealthy women proceed to freak the hell out
because if they don't hurry they may be liable for (gasp!) $5,500 each
to cover the suite. Makes perfect sense to me too. Never mind that
they're millionaires, particularly Carrie, whose couch alone in her
living room is worth upwards of $30,000. Never mind that they could
have also asked to be moved into regular rooms for the night so they
could leave at a normal pace the next day. But on the other hand, if
they had been logical, we wouldn't have been treated to a madcap scene
of the girls packing and then inexplicably getting into trouble at the
local bazaar (again related to Samantha's inability to keep her clothes
on), followed by a quasi-insulting scene of burqa-clad women revealing
designer clothes under their robes and reading a Susanne Sommers
menopause book, for some reason. 

Ultimately they make their way to the airport in a horrible little
gypsy cab (because between the four of them they couldn't afford a limo
of their own too?), and before you know it, they're off to America
again. Oh and Carrie hooked up with her ex boyfriend at some point in
there and told her husband about it for no good reason. 

Predictably, they get home and everyone is as introspective as they're
capable of (not very much at all), and they realize how wonderful their
lives really are (no they don't). The end.

Now you don't need to see the movie. You're welcome.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the first Sex and the City movie, and finding it OKAY, I
decided to take a stab at the second film. I am a huge fan of the HBO
series, so i was naturally excited...

THE GOOD: Yes, there were some funny moments, and some nice things to
look at (clothes, design, men). I liked most of the music choices, and
I did enjoy the first 20 minutes or so of the film because it seemed as
though it would be building up to something interesting, but just these
few things alone could not have made a good enough movie for one of the
best shows to ever air on television. 

THE BAD: This movie had a lot of downfalls. Lets start with the plot
(or lack there of). The audience was treated to four women that
constantly complained about their "problems". I am not saying that
their issues were not legitimate to regular women, but they did not
present these issues in a way that would create an interesting
plot..they were just seemingly simple problems that were over
dramatized and annoying to listen to (lackluster marriage, boring job,
declining hormones, having children...) In the middle of these
"problems" we get to see how rich they are with their maids/nannys,
change of expensive clothes every 4 minutes and fancy homes. All these
things made it hard to sympathize with them. Yes, in the show we saw
their lavish lifestyle, but this film was rubbing it in the audience's
face, and it was a main part of the "storyline" when it really
shouldn't have been. (plus, a lot of the clothing choices were NOT
good) 

It seemed as though they threw in the idea of going to Abu Dhabi just
to make things interesting, but it just made things worse. I felt as
though there was a mocking/ undermining quality to the way they
portrayed middle eastern customs... But more importantly (to me) is the
fact that when i think of the show and its title "Sex in the CITY" I
think of that city as NYC, NOT Abu Dhabi (really, what were they
thinking?) 

Overall, i felt like this was a poorly executed film that had little
resemblance to the show... I feel cheated.
<|_=00=_|>
As a longtime fan of the series I was seriously shocked and appalled
that the 4 women that were initially portrayed as intelligent, fun,
sexy New Yorkers are shown here as self-obsessed, over- sexed idiots
that are not able to travel anywhere without offending the locals and
looking ridiculous. The plot of the movie is non-existent. It all looks
like a really long compilation of advertorials with not much connection
between the scenes. And I am not speaking about the horrible
inappropriate styling and the so-old looking women - it would be fine,
if they at least were styled and made up properly: Carrie has this
weird tan, looks about 10 years older than she actually is and has none
of the coolness that made her so likable. Charlotte is losing it and in
spite of all the makeup, looks tired and has totally lost her perky
personality. Not only Samantha also looks much older than she is thanks
to the terrible makeup, but her behavior is erratic and really not
consistent with what has been shown in the series. The only one who was
more or less OK was Miranda. And don't get me started on the Abu Dhabi
stint - the Middle-Eastern country is ridiculed, wrongly portrayed and
I frankly think that it is shown in a racist manner. It's a shame,
really, that they have taken a social phenomenon and turned it into a
shameful mess. I will choose to ignore this movie, pretend I never saw
it and keep on watching the series.
<|_=00=_|>
I feel like I was robbed. This movie was the epitome of bad movie
sequels. I cannot believe that the Sex and the City girls would stoop
so low to make this film. They must be desperate! Despite the tacky
clothes, plot and totally obnoxious take on the once really hip, cool
and classy girls from New York, the cinematography was horrendous. 

I can't believe no one on this site had mentioned the fact that you
could see the microphones above the actors heads in almost every scene!
It was so distracting in addition to being tortured by their senseless
complaining. I don't think I have ever seen such bad filming in my
life! I don't make films but I certainly would make sure I didn't get
any of the filming equipment on camera!

This movie was awful!!!!! I want my ten dollars back!
<|_=00=_|>
WARNING: a few *small* spoilers.

The previous review says it all - but I still feel it necessary to add
my two cents.

I, too, was a huge fan of the series...if only because the characters
were interesting, and it was so refreshing to listen to realistic
female characters discuss taboo topics such as sex.

I forced myself to watch the first movie. That was bad. This one...even
worse. The characters have become utterly superficial, materialistic
(in a way that's practically nauseating given the current state of the
economy) - and completely 2 dimensional. The writing - cartoony and
juvenile. Honestly, Carrie's the worst - the way the character acted in
the film, I would personally have recommended that Mr. Big file for
divorce. (Complaining because he wants to stay home and watch movies
together, then forcing him to leave a party--that she dragged him
to--early because he had a conversation with another woman?) Jeez.

As for Samantha - that character's gone completely over the top - sex
crazed in a way that went way past racy and into plain vulgar. 

Combine that with the incongruity of throwing the characters into a
completely unrealistic situation (heading to Abu Dahbi?), and then
disrespect that they show to Arab culture....well, this movie COULD NOT
have been worse. Thank goodness that there's no way they'll make STC3.
At least, I really, really hope not. How this ever could have been
green lighted for production is totally beyond my comprehension.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite having almost not plot line at all. I did chuckle in my seat a
few times. That is, until they decided to travel to another country and
start offending other cultures in a manner that should be frowned upon.
I have no idea how people of middle eastern decent will view this
movie. I'd imagine that they would be highly offended as I am. Going to
another country to visit and enjoy culture is one thing, going there
and not having the slightest respect for their laws and telling them to
"Fuck You!" while flicking them off because you disagree with their
customs is another. I expected a little better for such a well known
series. They really showed their true colors on this one. They showed
how sensitive they really can be when interpreting middle eastern
culture and way of life. Horrible movie.
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of people exercise their brains with puzzles found in the
newspaper. Sudoku is a prime example. The variety published by a
typical paper can usually be solved in less than 5 minutes, or at least
that's been my experience with them. The goal for me was to grab an
issue of The Kansan, take a seat in class, and have the Sudoku finished
before learning was to commence. I didn't have class every day, so when
I didn't need the Sudoku I kept the paper. A small pile sits next to me
as I type this review. I never got to working a single puzzle after
graduating; I found that writing and talking about movies was a more
suitable exercise for me. It seems that the worse the movie in
question, the more mistakes there are to find. For that reason alone,
Sex and the City 2 is a good brain teaser.

The adventure begins when Carrie Preston (Sarah Jessica Parker) and
friends Miranda (Cynthia Nixon), Charlotte (Kristin Davis), and
Samantha (Kim Cattrall) attending the wedding of their best gay
friends. Since this is based on a long running TV series, I'm sure fans
of the show found more significance to the scene than I did. In my eyes
it was the most logical way to present Liza Minnelli as herself singing
Beyoncé's "Single Ladies". It's a scene that can't be unseen, and I
knew instantly that it would haunt me for the rest of the summer.
Everyone at the wedding makes Carrie feel bored with her life now that
she's settled down with Mr. Big (Chris Noth). The most bizarre way this
is accomplished is by having a random couple tell them they will be
lonely if they don't have children. Then wouldn't you know it,
something ridiculous happens and the girls get flown to Abu Dhabi where
they are treated like royalty all because some sheik wants Samantha
work a PR campaign for his property. But don't worry, our leading
ladies forget about any logical objective and proceed to flaunt what
they got in the desert.

I realize this movie didn't have me in mind when it was created. This
is my first experience with the girls of Sex and the City and from what
I gathered I can see why an hour-long TV program running on premium
cable would be a hit. These girls are rude, and vulgar, but they play
off of each other like champs. When they are seated at a table
gossiping is when Sex and the City 2 shows any hint of a shine. The
problems then smudge that polish.

I've never seen so many costume changes. I'm convinced it's the driving
point behind the narrative. Every scene is constructed to show what
Carrie and the girls can put on then lead to another situation for them
to dress up. No movie should be so shallow, and even worse they look
flammable and toxic. I wasn't sure if the running gag is that Carrie
doesn't know she looks like a low rent streetwalker, there's a sign of
trouble if ever there was one.

No care is shown with the characters. Samantha sleeps with absolutely
any guy regardless of the situation, and the outcome is too much to
stomach. Miranda has a subplot about needing to balance work and family
which gets lost in a sea of plunging necklines. Charlotte frets about
her husband cheating on her with their nanny every 10 minutes. Lastly,
Carrie is simply too selfish to be likable. She has a husband who seems
to be doing a fantastic job by everyone else's standards. To her, he
needs to do more and this sets her up for a lamebrain, and oddly
predictable, encounter with an old flame.

The wanton excess of this movie leaves no doubt as to why the world
hates us. Sex and the City 2 is a better terrorist motivational tool
than it is an enjoyable time at the theatre. These girls are easily
living the life in New York before the film takes its sweet time to
send them to the Middle East where everything is ratcheted up to 11.
They each get a personal Maybach 62 S so they can be chaffered to and
from locations where they can offend locals and change clothes. There's
an occasionally clever line but that won't vindicate watching it.
