
I need to get my biggest criticism for "Funny People" out of the way
here at the beginning: it is not the movie the marketing campaign would
lead you to believe it is. While it is true of the ads that this film
is more than just a comedy and that it contains some heavy themes
involving a near-death experience, it would be more accurately
described as a dark drama punctuated by some very funny lines. But I
suppose that doesn't get people in to see the movie.

After all, the film stars Adam Sandler and Seth Rogen (who have
wonderful rapport), among many other, uh, funny people, and is written
and directed by Judd Apatow, the director of "The 40-Year-Old Virgin"
and "Knocked Up." Of course the trailers have been playing up this
angle but, as my wife commented, that's like marketing "Schindler's
List" as "From the director of 'E.T.' and 'Jaws'." It doesn't tell you
much about the movie you are about to see.

This beef aside, what you will see is a very mature drama (yes, I said
mature despite the rampant penis jokes) reminiscent of the best work of
Hal Ashby and Cameron Crowe. Sandler proves once again that he is a
fine actor, and his performance as successful movie star/comedian
George Simmons is tonally similar to his fantastic work in "Punch-Drunk
Love" and "Reign Over Me." A very isolated man made rich by a number of
films that look like rejected Wayans Brothers ideas, George lives in a
castle of a house, complete with an indoor and an outdoor pool. His
only obvious human contact consists of photo ops with his fans, and the
servants at home that he keeps at arm's length. Early on he is
diagnosed with a rare blood disorder for which no clear treatment
exists. Death on his doorstep, he begins to examine his life. He hates
himself, but that he let so many important relationships go to waste is
something he hates even more. It's time for a change.

Enter Ira Wright (played tenderly by a slimmed-down Rogen), a
struggling stand-up who works at a deli counter and lives on a pull-out
couch and in the shadow of his successful roommates, comic Leo (Jonah
Hill) and sitcom star Mark (Jason Schwartzman, who also co- wrote the
simple acoustic score with Michael Andrews). Ira and George cross paths
at a comedy club where George performs a self-loathing monologue that
generates almost no laughs. Ira follows his act, trashing George's
apparent depression. In spite of this, George hires Ira to be his right
hand man, as a joke writer when he decides to return to stand-up, and
as a general errand boy. The dynamic of this new relationship is
unclear to Ira, but it seems like a foot in the doorand it sure beats
serving macaroni salad to soccer moms.

What follows is a long road to recovery, physically and emotionally. I
say long, because the movie runs almost 2 ½ hoursa daunting running
time for a comedy or a drama. Anyone who has enjoyed Apatow's work as a
director knows that his films have become incrementally longer. At
times, I wished he would take the advice from the character Alan Tudyk
played in "Knocked Up," as Katherine Heigl's boss who instructs her to
not necessarily lose weight, but to "make everything tighter." I
wouldn't know what to tighten exactly, because there are many excellent
scenes. No matter. I would rather sit through 2 ½ hours of this than
the same length of loud, racist pummeling robots. I hope there are
other moviegoers out there that share my sentiment.

In addition to the great work by Sandler and Rogen, we have Mrs.
Apatow, Leslie Mann. She plays Laura with great vulnerability, the love
of George's life, left behind years ago when he cheated on her. She has
since married the Australian version of George, Clarke (a hilarious if
underused Eric Bana). They have a big house and two beautiful and funny
daughters played by Apatow's and Mann's real-life daughters Maude and
Iris, who also played Mann's and Paul Rudd's daughters in "Knocked Up."
George and Laura reenter each other's lives and try to pick up the
pieces, much to the dismay of the reserved, more morally-centered Ira.

There is an awful lot of movie to cover, so I will stop there. The
screenplay, while thoughtful, emotional and at times hilarious, follows
a non-structure that would infuriate Robert McKee. There is no
three-act structure. There is no classic antagonist. The unusual pacing
allows the story to unfold more like life in that way. I'm curious to
see how this movie will be received by audiences expecting a typical
Apatow film. The thing I appreciated most about "Funny People" is that
Apatow takes huge risks with the ambitious goal of "making a very
serious movie with twice as many jokes" as his previous films. That he
more often than not achieves his goals is a remarkable feat, and while
"Funny People" isn't a great movie, it shows you a fascinating side of
show business, and more importantly, it makes one believe that we can
look forward to a wonderful and varied body of work from an original
and, maybe someday, great filmmaker.

"Funny People"

Starring: Adam Sandler, Seth Rogen, Leslie Mann, Eric Bana, Jonah Hill,
Jason Schwartzman, many comedians as themselves. Director: Judd Apatow.
Running Time: 140 Minutes. Rated: R for tons of crude language, and for
sex and brief nudity.

Consensus: Expect a fascinating drama with fine acting and a few hearty
laughs (if you can handle crude humor). Just don't expect the movie
they show you parts of in the previews.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll start by saying that I am a Judd Apatow fan. I've loved most of
his movies, including the two previous movies he's directed, The
40-Year-Old Virgin and Knocked Up. I've seen each many times, and they
are two of my favorite comedies. 

This, however, didn't prepare me for his newest, Funny People. Apatow
has become well known for his sweet, adult comedies, but this movie is
very different from his others. I would almost call it a "funny drama."
This has it's pros and cons. I don't think I laughed out loud as much
as in either of the other two films, but what I got in return, is an
actual good movie, that's actually ABOUT something.

I liked Adam Sandler before I knew what a good movie was, as I grew up
watching his lighter movies, like Waterboy, Happy Gilmore, etc. I've
seen him so much that he ceased becoming an actor to me and actually
reached a point of self-parody. His role as comedian George Simmons is
perfect for him, because he's basically playing himself, to a point. He
gives the performance of his life, even better than Punch-Drunk- Love.
His portrayal is cold and confused, angry and hurt. It's what a
comedian might truly be like when he's not on stage. He plays it
perfectly, providing a likable character while at the same time showing
us there might not be so much to like. He's the best part of this
movie, and that's saying something

The supporting cast is great, as usual. Seth Rogan actually plays a
different character than his other movies as Ira, who acts as a great
foil to George Simmons. Jason Schwartzman and Jonah Hill provide some
great comedic backup, including their hilarious fictional sitcom "Yo,
Teach". In fact, a lot of the laugh out loud comedy from the film stems
from the many supporting performances and cameos (My favorites being
Marshall Mathers and James Taylor). Eric Bana is very funny, and Leslie
Mann gives an impressive performance as well.

Funny People's only real problem is it's ambition, and that's
definitely the best problem to have. It's nearly two and a half hours,
and while I didn't have a problem with the length, it obviously had to
end when it did, as there aren't many people who would want to sit
through a three hour comedy. I wish it could have ran even longer, as
some subplots weren't fleshed out nearly enough. I really liked the
romance between Ira and Daisy (Played by Aubrey Plaza, who is sweet and
funny in every scene she's in), but it was rushed, and in the end cut
short, which is a shame, because it's one of the best parts of the
movie.

Above all, this is a real movie. It's success doesn't just depend on
the amount of laughs it receives. Thanks to Sandler and a thought
provoking story, this is more than just another raunchy-sweet comedy.
The movie will definitely divide people more than the others, and I'm
not sure it will find as big of an audience. Judd Apatow has improved
tremendously with each movie he's directed, and, despite his
detractors, he's going to be the king of the comedy movie for a long,
long time.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed the first half of Funny People. I don't think I've
ever seen any other Adam Sandler flicks (I didn't want to), so I was
happily surprised by the good mix of comedy and drama here.

As soon as Sandler's ex-girlfriend and her family enter the fray,
though, the film comes to a screeching halt. And when we learn new
facts about his disease, the film turns itself upside down and inside
out trying to figure out what it wants to do with this information. No
one knows how to react; not Sandler, not the girlfriend, and not her
husband. Judd Apatow thinks they do, but it's so hard to follow the
character's ideas and feelings here that the film becomes unreadable.
Because we don't know where the characters are coming from, we don't
know whether we're watching comedy or drama, so we don't know how to
feel or react. The little girls, while enjoyable to watch, are cloying
and don't advance the story. And when a lot of screen time is devoted
to the people playing games and generally goofing around, you're no
longer watching the characters--you're watching the actors simply
having a good time, which further slows down and confuses the story. 

Seth Rogen's character seems to know what's right, but his voice gets
lost amid all the confusion until the end, when we get an
all-too-convenient moral finish that doesn't address any of the
important issues raised in the film.

I think this could have been a much better film with a lot of the
meandering in the second half either tightened up or removed.
<|_=00=_|>
It's difficult to imagine what was in Judd Apatow's mind. A serious
comedy of sorts? Adam Sandler is at the center of the confused attempt.
He's better than he's ever been in a part that is, quite frankly,
disagreeable to say the list. This creature that has achieved fame and
fortune but without building any interior life. A bum, ignorant, silly,
self pitying, spoiled, uneducated, moronic and I could go on but I
guess you get the picture. The strange thing is that the story is
structured in such a way that seems to imply we're suppose to feel for
him even feel identified by his predicament. He's told he has a fatal
disease at the beginning of the film but then miraculously he gets
better and then you have another hour of film in which new characters
are introduced. I wanted to run out of the theater and scream. There
are a few funny moments and Jason Schwartzman and Eric Bana are very
good but,somebody please tell me, what the hell was this?
<|_=00=_|>
The first hour and a half was fairly entertaining, funny one-liners,
exactly what I was expecting. Then the scene when Adam Sandler's
Character goes to visit his former girlfriend's house. It dragged ON,
and ON, and ON, and so forth. It was like the tempo of the movie went
from snappy to outright boring and annoying. There were at least 15-20
minutes where nobody in our almost sold-out crowd laughed. Terrible.

It was almost like Apatow took two completely different editors, gave
one the first half's footage, and the other the second half, and had
them edit without seeing each other's work. The second half was
painfully awful to sit through. Some people left the theater. Plot
development was slower than ever, everything was predictable.

None of the characters were likable, expect for maybe Seth Rogan's and
the children. It didn't "move" me in any way possible, plot was fairly
pointless and dry, satire was nearly absent, and it relied on penis,
fart and sex jokes that were nowhere even close to Superbad. Sandler
was OK. It was nice having lots of cameos: James Taylor, Eminem, Tom
from Facebook, Ray Romano and Sarah Silverman just to name a few. But
it didn't make up for subpar acting from the others.

I thought maybe the ending would make up for the second half it could
have been a decent comedy, but it was formulaic and awkward. I've seen
much funnier people in much more funny movies. Rent it and hope the
"directors cut" literally cuts about 60 minutes off the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Thus far, 5,000 people have voted this movie as a 9 or 10 star rating.
There's really, honestly only one explanation for this: These people
were associated with this movie and have something to gain by its being
rated high enough to dupe people into buying it.

For a movie that was reviewed as being "Uproariously Funny" and
"Hilarious" that has a cast of comedians, is located in the comedy
section, and is called "Funny People" one would expect something along
the lines of, oh, I don't know, a comedy.

Instead what you get is a two and a half hour long, poorly directed
drama about a man who finds out he has a rare form of leukemia, has a
92% chance of dying, so decides to go on a last stand-up comedy tour
but has lost his "funny." So he hires an aspiring stand-up comedian to
do his writing for him.

It was as if they were trying very, very hard to show just how un-funny
starting comedians were. In the scenes where some stand-up was seen,
this would have been the opportune time to inject some comedy into this
otherwise depressing and pointless movie. Instead, you get bad jokes,
vulgar jokes, and groaners.

So the main character (George Simmons) begins talking to his (now
married with two children) ex-girlfriend who was the "love of his life"
(that left him because he cheated on her). Later discovering that he
has miraculously beaten the odds, and is in fact getting better, the
"love of his life" decides she will leave her husband, keeping the two
children, and live with George. Ultimately, having already cheated on
her husband and slept with George, she decides that he hasn't really
changed all that much, and no lessons are learned by either party. She
goes back to her husband attempting to lie about having slept with him.
Yes... Really... This is the 2.5 hour plot.

The closest thing to "funny" in this movie was a very short fight scene
between her husband and George that happens at about 2 hours and 15
minutes into the movie. There was also a ton of cameos of various
comedians, and on all parts, they either failed to even have dialog, or
their dialog was utterly pointless, and non-humorous. In fact, the
funniest cameo in the whole movie came from a 10 second bit with
Eminem. That should tell you something.

This movie would have deserved a 5 if they had cut out some of the
completely undeveloped sub-plots, some of the inane, and incredibly
long dialog, and made it a decent 1 hour, to 1.5 hour movie. However,
after sitting through 2.5 hours of this move in the hopes that
SOMETHING would climax and make me feel like it wasn't a complete
waste, by the end, I was left feeling that this was yet another 2.5
hours of my life I would never get back.

To reiterate, there was just no comedy in the movie. Even the humor you
see in the trailers, when actually put into context with the actual
movie, still ends up being depressing.

The "40 Year Old Virgin" was brilliant, and I loved it. Don't let the
fact that the same director was involved in this crap-storm fool you
into buying it. If you must see it, rent it, or better still, con a
friend into renting it so you at least won't be out the money.

-Javin
<|_=00=_|>
One of the major rules people should have learned about movies is this:
No matter how specific the title is, it may not be what you thought it
was going in.

Judd Apatow had two previous titles, both being specific in title, with
"The 40 Year Old Virgin" and "Knocked Up". So when you see a movie with
a title like "Funny People", you will probably expect a very funny
movie; This wouldn't be necessarily incorrect, but misleading: There
are funny people in this movie, it is just not a movie that is truly as
funny as the title would lead you to believe.

Adam Sandler as George is surely the highlight of this movie, We think
we will see Adam playing a serious role, and for the most part, he
does. His character, dying from a rare blood disease, is brought up
almost immediately, so the movie moves right away.

George decides to go back to the stage after making a handful of truly
bad movies (An obvious look back at Adam's acting career) and bombs on
stage, but Ira, played by Seth Rogen in a different kind of role, gets
some big laughs. George hires Ira to help him write jokes, and a
different kind of friendship, but a friendship nonetheless, develops.

George soon gets into touch with an old girlfriend, played by Leslie
Mann, Director Apatow's Wife, and the two begin to realize how much
they have both changed. She has a husband (Eric Bana, in a truly funny
role) and two kids (Iris and Maude, Mann and Apatow's real life
children), while George lives a life less fulfilling.

The movie takes a real backseat to conventional rules of movies; There
is maybe, at a maximum, of two real clichés in this movie, one
mentioned in this review already, and the other for good measure.

The movie feels a little long winded, running at nearly 2 and half
hours, and the characters are sad, but interesting. Seeing Adam playing
a shadow of himself is certainly a depressing site, and Rogen doing all
he can for the man that he admires, since he was a kid, no less, is
even better, proving that Rogen isn't a one trick pony, hopefully
making this a bit more noticeable for his performance in The Green
Hornet next year.

The movie also has some great performances from Jason Schwartzman as an
actor starring in a horrible television sitcom and Jonah Hill as a
competing comedy performer.

But there has to be a reason why this movie is ranked so low, and it
could almost be said of the running time, but its coming right back to
my first paragraph about ironic titles in movies. I suspected a laugh
riot, and got mere chuckles. The stand up is hard to enjoy, being very
oriented in genitalia humor and sex jokes doesn't make it really funny,
just repetitive.

And I will be honest: I didn't pay attention to the title business and
felt rather disappointed. This is a movie not sitting at the dinner
table with all the Apatow produced movies of the last three or four
years; like George, he's sitting at his own table, not quite like
everyone else.

Perhaps now that I've seen the movie for what it truly is, a drama with
some funny parts in it, I can now go back and see if maybe I can look
at it any differently.

Here is an Apatow film different from anything he's directed, written
or produced lately, and deserves to be seen at least once, and while
people will see this and perhaps, not laugh as hard, here is hoping
Apatow doesn't lose face and give up on this kind of writing. Apatow
can make characters more like real people, and he needs to consider
maybe doing a drama a little more than once or twice, now that he has
done it. If he doesn't, he might end up like most writer-directors, who
just get tired after awhile, instead of trying out different genres of
film, regardless of what his "Fans" might say anyway.

7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
A cross Between Terms Of Endearment and a Dice Clay stand-up act, Funny
People is a vanity project taken to pathological and psychotic
extremes. One gets the impression Apatow's motivation for making this
was to inflict psychological torture upon his viewers. The film stars
Adam Sandler as a man who you know will be dying at the end of the
film, so the movie starts out with raunchy dialog that would make Kevin
Smith blush, then abruptly shifts gears by emotionally manipulating the
audience using tearjerker plot techniques typically used in the average
Lifetime Movie of the Week. 

Perhaps there is a way to effectively execute an odd conglomeration
such as this, but Funny People fails at every level. The jokes are
tasteless rather than funny, and the sap-o-meter is off the charts -
making Pretty Woman seem like Die Hard in comparison. 

Seth Rogen and Sandler have proved to be fine comedic actors, you wince
at watching them sell their souls to Jud Apatow. If there were any
justice, this narcissistic and brutally maudlin film would ensure
Apatow never works in Hollywood ever again. He casts his kids and his
wife and shows them off adoringly. With every frame, you can
practically hear him screaming: "I have made it! I can make my own
Heaven's Gate!" 

I honestly felt sick to my stomach walking out of this cringe-worthy
film and was unable to sleep or develop an appetite for food 24 hours
after. No movie has ever had that affect on me. 

I am ashamed to admit seeing this film but I feel obligated to warn
people to stay away. Do not even rent for a buck when it comes on DVD.
This is a total waste of time and is offensive in every way imaginable.
I was one of many to walk out of the film before it ended at the
screening I attended. So, unfortunately, I cannot give a full review,
although I am sure I missed out on it's overly sentimental conclusion,
and I don't regret missing it. Do yourselves a favor and steer clear
from this abomination at all costs. Sandler & Rogan ought to be ashamed
of themselves. When all's said and done, Apatow will be finished in
Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
I went in with high hopes expecting this to be very entertaining and
sure enough, I was in for a treat! Seth Rogen and Adam Sandler were in
perfect sync with each other and had some very funny jokes that were
not only witty but very good. Even the theme of a near death experience
seemed to really fit in with the movie.But after the first hour and a
half and Sandler being cured, the film just dragged. I found it very
odd that after Sandler was cured, there was little to no mention of him
being cured after he initially tell everybody, then goes back to being
the same jerk he's always been. It just didn't make any sense of what
someone who just went through a near death experience would really do.
Then here was a lot of pointless drivel about his ex married to an
Australian dude that Sandler was trying to get back, how he still loved
her, blah blah blah,and he still doesn't get the girl in the end! All
while he's with the girl, him and Rogen get into a huge fight and then
they're just done.What was that??? I kept thinking "What happened?" The
duo that Sandler and Rogen portrayed so wonderfully from before fell
apart, and the film just ceased to be funny.If the film would've ended
after Sandler gets cured, I'd easily say Best Film of the Year, but
because they had to goon and on for almost another hour and a half
about something that had almost nothing to do with the story really
killed Funny People for me. If you're going to see it, I suggest going
for the first hour and a half then leaving because if you stay, get
ready to pull out a pillow and get a good almost hour of snooze.
<|_=00=_|>
FUNNY PEOPLE (2009) ** Adam Sandler, Seth Rogen, Leslie Mann, Eric
Bana, Jonah Hill, Jason Schwartzman, Aubrey Plaza, Maude Apatow, Iris
Apatow, RZA, Aziz Ansari, Torsten Voges. (Cameos as themselves: James
Taylor, Eminem, Andy Dick, Charles Fleischer, Paul Reiser, George
Wallace, Norm MacDonald, Dave Attell, Sarah Silverman, Ray Romano)
Misfire dramedy with Sandler as a self-centered jerk comedian whose
life-threatening illness comes into focus as he attempts to re-connect
with an old flame (Mann) with the help of his new assistant and sudden
best friend (Rogen), and up-and-coming comic wannabe falls flat on so
many levels in both genres: drama and comedy; not really absorbing as
the former and very seldom funny as the latter). While comedy king Judd
Apatow attempts something different he misses the mark completely:
entertaining. The film is neither and painfully again the comedy is
mostly a mélange of dick jokes trying to fade out the 'heavy drama' at
hand. Heavy-handed instead and the fact that a corral of big-time
comedians are given senseless cameos providing them nothing to do
except smile and nod.
