
There are big, loud and dumb movies, and then there are movies like
'Red Dawn', which deserve to belong to a category in themselves for
being sheer stupidity magnified. The fact that this was in fact a
remake of a 1984 movie that starred the likes of Patrick Swayze, C.
Thomas Howell, Charlie Sheen and Jennifer Grey is no excuse for how
blatantly silly the premise is  if you're looking to give it another
go, the least you can do is to try to make it better.

For those who have not heard of that John Milius picture, its essential
conceit was how a ragtag group of teens become a formidable resistance
force when their peaceful community is suddenly attacked by an
occupying force. The Russians were the ones unfortunate enough to be
vilified then  not surprising given the lingering Cold War fears  but
writers Carl Ellsworth and Jeremy Passmore have made the North Koreans
the invaders this time round, though any real world relevance the
opening sequence of edited news footage might suggest the movie would
have is quickly thrown out of the window barely ten minutes into the
film.

After briefly introducing the audience to the pair of brothers  the
newly returned Iraq War veteran Jed Eckert (Chris Hemsworth) and his
hot-headed younger brother Matt (Josh Peck)  the North Koreans are
literally dropped into the movie. Waking up the rumble of explosions,
Jed and Matt are horrified to discover that the sky is dotted with
North Korean bombers and scores of soldiers are parachuting into the
town in a hostile takeover attempt. If it already sounds unconvincing
as we are describing it to you, trust us when we tell you it looks even
more ridiculous on screen.

Are we supposed to believe that within the span of one night, the North
Koreans have suddenly made their way halfway across the globe to attack
America? Are we supposed to believe that they could have come with all
that firepower? And worst of all, are we supposed to even buy into the
fact that they would even bother about a small town called Spokane?
Sure, we would willingly suspend our disbelief for a movie that bothers
to make sense; but 'Red Dawn' makes no such attempt, and utterly
baffles in how it thinks it can get away with such an absurd setup.

Does it get better along the way? Absolutely not. Seeing his father
executed before their eyes, Jed comes to the conclusion that they need
to prepare for war  and just like that, he becomes training commander
of a young team of rebels who call themselves the 'Wolverines'. They
learn to fight, to shoot and to hide, all in the name of preparing to
wage an urban guerrilla campaign against the North Koreans who have
taken over their town with their arsenal of soldiers, jeeps, and tanks.

And when they are finally ready, Matt decides to undermine their plans
by scuttling off to rescue his girlfriend Erica (Isabel Lucas), thereby
igniting a brotherly conflict between the rational and responsible Jed
and the impulsive and impetuous Matt. What a pathetic attempt at trying
to make us care about two stock types who frankly are just in the movie
so we have the good guys  the same goes for bringing Toni (Adrianne
Paliki) and Erica into the fray and building some sort of romantic
links between Jed and Matt respectively.

Even if we accept the tradeoffs in plot and character most B-movies
would have their audience make, the least director Dan Bradley could
have done is to mount some decently shot action sequences. That is
precisely Bradley should have done with his cameraman Mitchell Amundsen
 shoot him point blank. Clearly trying too hard to emulate the
'Bourne' films to lend the action a sense of urgency, the shaky
camera-work is downright frustrating to watch, and even more so because
the sequences  especially the final one set within a huge circular
room fronted on all sides with glass windows  are pretty promising to
begin with.

No thanks to its abundant flaws, the movie also wastes its promising
young cast. Hemsworth has good presence as the smart leader of the team
(he takes over Patrick Swayze's role in the original), while Josh
Hutcherson (who played Peeta in 'The Hunger Games' and here is in C.
Thomas Howell's role) brings naivety and temperance to the role of
Robert Kitner, a bookish type who turns warrior because of
circumstance. Less convincing is Peck, who mostly just looks too stoned
to convey any sort of inner dilemma his character is supposed to face.

Nonetheless, the acting is the least of the flaws in a movie that is
painfully illogical and utterly nonsensical. Its invasion scenario
might have been able to fly with an audience in the '80s, but to try to
transplant the same premise to today's context is just plain daftness.
Ironically, there are some moments that appear to suggest that the
filmmakers are wise enough to know not to take the movie too seriously
 but those moments fade away as soon as the next unabashed
war-mongering scene arrives.

Don't get us wrong  this isn't about whether we love B-action movies
or not. We do, but it is movies that insult the intelligence of its
audience that we truly detest, and 'Red Dawn' is one perfect example of
that. Watch only if you need to understand the meaning of stupid.
<|_=00=_|>
I was not going to talk about this moving until I saw one of the actors
interviewed on CNN. He talked about making it better than the original
because today's audiences are more sophisticated that they were 30
years ago and need a better story and acting. Please, this movie is
full of special effects and CGI, the acting is sub par and, it's just a
bad, bad movie. If this movies shows anything, it's that Hollywood has
no respect for audiences and just recycles an old movie, loads it with
pretty faces and special effects, makes it PC and throws it out at
audiences. Seems that every year, Hollywood throws out trash like this,
fills it with CGI and special effects, lot's of fires and explosions
and calls it "art".

A complete waste of time unless you are a male in his early teens.

if a movie could get 0 stars, that's what I would give this movie. It
will be in the bargain bin at Walmart for .49 Even at this price, it's
not worth the money.
<|_=00=_|>
Words cannot begin to describe how awful this movie is. Not sure if it
was meant to be serious or a parody that went haywire. This movie could
not end soon enough and the fact that its rating is sitting at a 5 on
IMDb right now just made me lose a ton of respect for the IMDb ratings.

My wife and I can't stop talking about how bad this movie was. A group
of high school students terrorize an entire N. Korea army which for
some reason or another took over small town USA? WTF? We couldn't stop
laughing when the N. Korea military leader kept yelling "The wolverine
terrorists are attacking..." yeah - watch out for those high school
snipers (all 5 of them) terrorizing your artillery of tanks and
thousands of troops.

I couldn't make up this movie plot and can't reasonably understand how
any movie director or studio could come up with this, let alone
actually release it to the public. It embarrasses the entire movie
industry.

The director and studio should be banned from producing movies for
life.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly you are better off going to North Korea than seeing this poor
excuse of a movie. Honestly I wish N. Korea would invade us just so
they could stop the distribution of this awful film. It is a shame that
this movie was made in Michigan, not exactly a boost to our rep. I have
no idea why they chose Josh Peck for one of the male leads. He makes
Hayden Christiansen look like Marlon Brando in his prime. Now that I
think about it, I might even have to suggest seeing that new Twilight
instead of this. I know that's pretty extreme, but trust me it's really
that bad. It also makes sense that this was filmed back in 2009 and
just now is being released. In hindsight, the studio should've just cut
its losses and canned this thing for good. The one positive is perhaps
it will cause people to watch the original film from the 80's which is
actually watchable.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm sure this movie shows more or less how it looked when US forces
dropped in to say hello in Iraq and Afghanistan. The 30 year old
teenagers in this movie throw out mercilessly sub par dialog like "This
is not their land. This is our back yard and we're going to fight for
it," or "they killed our father, we have to fight or die." I'm sure
that's what they said in Fallujah too when good ol' George W. sent his
invading army to destroy their country. Aaameeerica,
Aaameeerrrrriiiicaa!! God save them all, they do make me laugh and cry
at the same time.

Enough has already been said in previous reviews about the wildly
idiotic plot and lazy directing. Rather get the 1984 version. At least
it had some heart in it, though the plot was just as ludicrous, playing
on the strange fear of communism America has always fostered. 

One more thing! Modern movies (this one being no exception) way overuse
the lazy technique of compressing together various sorts of character
growth sequences into a few minutes. It's very annoying and shows a
lack of skill on everyones part.
<|_=00=_|>
This pitiful remake is nothing more than a hurried excuse to make money
off of an 80′s action brand that made its money off of the pretty faces
that starred in it, by doing more of the same. Oh well, we've got Chris
Hemsworth and Josh Hutcherson, right? (both fine actors, by the way).
But wait, hell with them, let's have a greasy-looking, stoner-faced,
mumbling Josh Peck as our war-torn hero. These "pretty faces" fill out
the empty space where the rest of the story about a hostile North
Korean attack on American soil should be. Wait, where's the United
States military? Hell with them, there's some device that shut them all
down, and these kids are our last hope! Yeah, right. If you can tie an
anchor to every last one of your disbeliefs and drown them in the
waters of horrible cinema, then maybe you can appreciate one or two of
the well- orchestrated and intense action scenes that "Red Dawn 2.0″
has to offer. Maybe you can even grow attached to some of the
characters. But hell with all that, and hell with an ending. That's the
reward for your investment. But hey, the studios probably made enough
money for a sequel. So there's that.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been a while, since I have seen something this bad. In fact, I
spent the whole screening time waiting for the movie to start making
sense. The Koreans invade using a top secret EMP weapon that SINKS
SUBMARINES (oh yeah) but leaves all electronics intact and working,
with no resistance from the armed forces, apparently taking everyone by
surprise. To remedy the situation, US sends 3(!) marines to take orders
from a resistance cell operated by a local high school team in order to
retrieve an unhackable device that lets the invading forces communicate
with each other during the "blackout" (once again, all the electronics
still work just fine). They succeed and escape to Canada, leaving the
insurgent kids alone against the enemy. The Koreans seem to be
completely incompetent and untrained: Not one of them can hit a target,
prisoners are rounded up at a high school football team with only a few
guards, when laying siege to a building, they never bother to cover the
exits, etc. A mysterious Russian guy appears and is immediately
identified as a counter insurgency expert. Despite this, he appears in
the movie exactly twice and both time does nothing. On top of this, the
product placement is pretty bad: at times it seems like the whole flick
was shot by using ad money from rolling rock and hammermill. I want my
12 dollars back.
<|_=00=_|>
I always wonder who approves these kind of movie ideas? This movie was
more annoying then anything I have seen in a very long time, and I felt
the urge to walk out numerous times. I did my best not to compare this
to the original, and kept an open mind as much as I could. However,
this movie lacks real tension and emotion. The opening invasion scenes
were very promising, but it went sadly downhill from there. The story
arc of Matt Eckert was awful. There were absolutely zero plot twists,
the most surprising part was when Jed was killed. But who shot him? I
mean come on, the star of the movie gets killed by a "loud bang" out of
nowhere, it's like the producers were making this up as they went.
There was never a feeling of a big "show down" brewing, no climax. No
character repertoire, just a big sterile, loud, jerky camera waste of
time. I feel a remake of a classic film should be a homage to that
original film. Otherwise, what use is it? Is this what the younger
generation likes in action movies these days? I sure hope not.
<|_=00=_|>
I came with somewhat high hopes, and I don't think I could have been
more let down. The story is alright, since mostly follows the original
and they didn't have much to write on their own. But they really
screwed the pooch on this one. Acting was among the worst I have ever
seen. Hemsworth is the only one that was passable, the rest
disgustingly atrocious. Josh Peck is an absolute joke, It was painful
to watch him, he should never have been casted. Even after filming
somebody should have done something to midigate his performance. I
can't speak enough to how terrible he was. The rest of the supporting
cast not much better. Seems like all they could do was make dramatic
faces and awkwardly spew out their lines.

This whole movie was terrible, i feel bad for anyone who is associated
with this garbage, for the original movie and cast, because the new
generation will likely judge their work on this ridiculous performance.

I really hope that the next time somebody decides to re-make a movie,
they put some real effort into it.
<|_=00=_|>
A few of the positive reviews for this film were probably written by
real people... like 13 year old boys, and frustrated, wannabe soldiers
who failed the IQ test.

The rest can only have been added here by a cubicle farm of movie
studio marketing drones, who really earned their pay trying to think of
good things to say about this sad, career-damaging waste of time.

Josh Peck is one of the all-time worst casting calls, and should become
a cautionary tale amongst casting agents.

Agent 1: 'What do you think of this guy for the main character?'

Agent 2: 'Are you trying to 'Josh Peck' this film?'

He looks about 20 years older than his older brother, and even in the
most dramatic scenes - has a mopey expression on his face that makes
you want to slap him. All I can imagine is that he helped fund the
film, because there's no other logical reason for him playing this
part.

I would have liked to be in the screening room when they showed this to
the studio head. There was probably a long silence when the curtain
fell, as half a dozen people were fired by text.
