
I went to see this movie yesterday and I have been positively
surprised. 

Keanu Reeves has given a great performance as Henry, the main
character. The chemistry between Reeves and his counterparts (Vera
Farmiga and James Caan) was really good and palpable. 

The story was convincing, well written and from start to finish I
actually believed in what was happening on the screen. Vera Farmiga,
who plays the female lead character, is superb, credible and bitter
enough to give convincing diva acting in the Checov's Cherry orchard
play, which is crucial for the dynamic development of the movie itself.

I left the theatre thinking I wanted to see it again. 

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't know what to expect when I saw the film first at the Toronto
Film Festival. But I was very surprised to see Keanu Reeves in a non
action special effects film. Henry's Crime is a perfect role for
Reeves. I was also blown away by James Caan and Vera Farmiga. Both give
standout performances worth of wards.

The film is a funny heist story with a twist of romantic comedy. It
doesn't go over the top, but it is a fun ride and makes you feel all
warm and fuzzy at the end. Not quite a chick flick, but a good date
movie as both men and women will appreciate the cast and the storyline. 

Other great cast mentions are Fisher Stevens as a conniving partner in
crime and Bill Duke as a helpful security guard.

The script is clever and the music is eclectic. I can't see anyone not
enjoying the fun and funny film. Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
Throw out your preconceptions of bank heist films and you have a good
start on "Henry's Crime". This one is a left-field success. The story
isn't at all remarkable, other than it was imagined and realized. The
thing that makes this flick fly is the fantastic performances. No one
is acting, they're just being really low-key engaging. This makes the
parts greater than the whole. You've seen some great movies with James
Caan, but did you expect another now? I've sensed Keanu Reeves could
use his "stiffness" to great effect if something which depended on that
came along and this is it. Add some rich flavor with Vera Farmiga and a
slight undercurrent of comedy and director Malcolm Venille delivers
just the right end result.

This bank heist film is more a comedic love story than anythingÂ…And, it
works. A slacker, who is actually happy married and going nowhere,
becomes a witless victim of circumstance. While in prison he is told he
has to have a dream or his life is meaningless. Once more circumstance
intervenes and he realizes what he has longed for is the meaning life
has once its shared. The trouble is that he is a bit slow to come to
that realization and the dream he imagined, that being a bank robbery
without violence, really isn't his dream at all. The whole thing is
juxtaposed by his becoming an actor, the suitor, in Chekhov's play "The
Orchard Thief". Again, low-key brilliance.

This movie entertains first and foremost. It passes as if it is ten
minutes due to the uniformly excellent performances of the cast. The
direction gets out of the way and there isn't any need for any special
effects or senseless action. It ends in the best possible way as to not
try to tie up anything past the found love between two people. Simply
put, entertaining low-key brilliant thus highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Henry's Crime is about an unfulfilled man who is used as a patsy in a
bank heist and is wrongly imprisoned. He figures since he did the time,
he might as well do the crime and he happens upon an unusually
accommodating gateway to the bank vault. Things become complicated when
he is hit by a car by a local play actress and falls in love with her.

I got the impression of classic Hollywood reminiscence within the
romance aspect which portends to a beautiful and passionate resolution.
The humor is quietly facetious and amenable but the ludicrous
situations keep it from drying out. The main character Henry, played by
Keanu Reeves leads an unfulfilled existence with nebulous ambitions and
seemingly incurable apathy. The accidental imprisonment of his body
leads inexorably to the liberation of his spirit. His mentor in prison,
played by James Caan and his romance with a local play actress played
by Vera Farmiga help guide him to his destined self-discovery. The
movie's plot is also ingeniously juxtaposed with a play by Anton
Chekhov, considered to be one of the greatest short-story writers in
the history of world literature. Eventually elements from the bank job,
the play and the romance all begin to culminate into a fervent
conclusion.

Keanu Reeves is brilliant in his restraint and in his dexterity
especially in roles where he emerges from dispassionate stoicism and
opens the emotional floodgates slowly with control and precision. His
style, subtle, graceful yet bold and veracious lends itself perfectly
to this character.
<|_=00=_|>
Time Out described it as a "Quiet Triumph" and I tend to agree. It's
not the best movie ever made but is clever, multi-layered (stories
within stories within...) and an interesting, often tongue in cheek,
look at acting as a process. It is enjoyable, although slightly
uncomfortable in places as Farmiga plays self reliant/involved diva and
ego-above-her-status-actress very well and with great aplomb. Caan's
comic relief as the wannabe lifer adds some one liners and fun to a
film that has an old-fashioned serious classic quality both in style
and direction (something to do with dimensions of camera angles/screen
apparently), and the soundtrack is brilliant. Chekhov's The Cherry
Orchard lends a certain gravitas to the proceedings, and a backdrop for
the real-life storyline, as does Reeves' deliberate delivery and method
metamorphosis from downtrodden bored/boring-but-nice average Joe to
cavalier passionate lovestruck criminal-mastermind, which is
impressive! I think this film is a slow burner... after watching it, it
stayed in my mind and I want to see it again, sure there will be more
layers and nuances that I missed.
<|_=00=_|>
Toll-booth attendant Henry (Keanu Reeves) serves jail time for a bank
heist he didn't commit. On being released he determines to rob the same
bank (on the grounds that he might as well, as he has already served
the time). He recruits cellmate Max (James Caan) to help with a plan
involving using an old tunnel between the bank and the theatre next
door. The theatre is rehearsing Chekov's The Cherry Orchard and we find
Max both performing and falling for actress Julie (Vera Farmiga).

I knew little about this film going in: only a synopsis briefer than
the one in the preceding paragraph. In particular, I did not know what
genre the film fitted into and, consequently, I spent the opening half
hour or more trying to figure out what sort of movie I was watching.

I am no wiser.

But I don't think it matters. It features comic elements and there are
points when you chuckle, but it isn't a comedy (possibly more of a
comedy of errors than an outright comedy). It might be classed as a
drama except, to be perfectly frank, it is so totally improbable that
it seems unfair to classify it as a drama. There are elements of
romance except, again...

I never lost interest, and I was entertained throughout, but I left the
cinema thoroughly bemused as to what exactly I had just watched.

I think the overall improbability is what works most strongly against
the film, together with Keanu Reeves' Henry during the first half hour
or more. Henry shows no reaction to anything, to the extent that I
wondered if he was supposed to be simple minded. You never know what he
is feeling or thinking and, therefore, what his motivations are and,
given the plot line, this is a serious failing. And it's a failing in
the conception of the character, not in Reeves' acting, because Henry
suddenly starts reacting and behaving normally about a third of the way
through.

James Caan is clearly having a great deal of fun as Max, and Vera
Farmiga continues to impress by cutting a thoroughly believable Julie
out of unlikely cloth. And Peter Stormare as a caricature Russian
director is almost worth the price of admission on his own.

This movie is worth trying out if you fancy something which doesn't
obviously fit any conventional stereotype.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film on it's opening night and very much enjoyed it. The
plot and its' details were original in a sense, and the casting was
perfect. Keanu's character 'Henry' was quiet and thoughtful, one of
those people who seems shy but is mostly pensive. Which is refreshing
in a sense that each time he speaks, you know it's something of
substance. His chemistry with Vera is perfectly suited and humorous.
And of course, with James Caan's con character thrown into the mix, the
audience is in for a treat. The film is well outlined and easy to
follow, yet interesting and suspenseful at times. I'd highly recommend
going to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
HENRY'S CRIME is a dark comedy that actually carries a fairly good
afterburn. The story is solid, the characters are unusual, and the
setting in Buffalo, NY is appropriately dark and dank. This is a tale
of how people react to their own personalities, moving through the
world seemingly oblivious to those around them, afraid to create dreams
much less go after them. 

Flatline Henry Torne (Keanu Reeves) works the night shift in a freeway
tollbooth, quite alone, and seemingly undisturbed by his isolation. At
dawn he goes home to his tiny house where he greets his wife, nurse
Debbie (Judy Geer) who wants to talk about beginning a family but as
usual things distract the couple's ability to have a conversation.
Friends pick up Henry to have him replace a member of the neighborhood
baseball team and Henry goes along (as he does with everything that
comes his way) only to wind up as the driver of a getaway car for his
'teammates' as they pause to rob a bank. Henry is so loopy that he is
not sure what happened and is arrested by the bank cop Frank (Bill
Duke) and without much effort in protecting his innocence, Henry is
convicted and imprisoned. There he meets Max Saltzman (James Caan) who
loves being in the protection of prison (low goals in life). When Henry
comes up for parole, Max wishes him luck in finding a dream (or waking
up to life) and Henry wanders back to his home: Debbie has married
worthless Joe (Danny Hoch) and is pregnant - and none of this seems to
bother Henry either. Henry decides to return to the bank he was
convicted of 'robbing' and is struck by a cellphone carrying driving
actress Julie (Vera Farmiga). Henry has feelings (surprise!) for Julie,
follows her into the theater next to the bank where Julie is rehearsing
Chekhov's 'The Cherry Orchard'. Things finally begin to move: the
theater is connected to the bank by a tunnel, Henry visits Max and
convinces him to get out on parole, and the two men plan to actually
rob the bank Henry was sent to prison for not robbing! From here the
puzzle takes twists and turns but the result is Henry's finally waking
up to his emotions (with Julie), with a 'dream' of robbing the bank to
repay the fact that he was unjustly incarcerated, and nothing - and
everything - goes as planned with big surprises in the end. 

Malcolm Venville directs this plodding venture written by Sacha
Gervasi, David White, and Stephen Hamel. Much of the plot is rather
silly but that seems somehow proper for a character as bland as Henry
(played with appropriate flatness by Reeves). Farmiga and Caan add the
sparkle that keeps the boat afloat. Just when viewers are about to
groan over this story, it reminds everyone of some of the people who
are sleepwalking through life, whether blandly or anxiously, and by
film's end the importance of dreams and an appreciation of the events
that make our lives interesting and quirky provides some valuable food
for thought. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
I've just watched this movie, and though my expectations were not very
high, "Henry's Crime" surprised me in a very pleasant way. The acting
is superb, starting with a sentimental Keanu Reeves, continuing with an
excellent performance by Vera Farmiga, and ending with the always
credible James Caan. The plot in itself is very simple, but that
simplicity is an important feature of this film. Henry (Reeves) gets
mixed up, unknowingly, in a bank robbery by an old high school buddy.
After serving three years in prison, he decided to change the way he
handled his life, by attempting to rob the same bank, though this time,
with full intention. When casing the bank, he gets run over by Julie
(Farmiga), an actress working in a play in the theater next to the
bank. From there on, they got to know each other, until they began a
relationship. At the same time, Henry asks his former cell-mate, Max
(Caan), to help him out to rob the bank. The plot seems kind of
unrealistic, but, in my opinion, it is not important. The real
important thing is the portrayal of each character, very well done if
you ask me. The writers focus on the fears, the dreams, and the
feelings of each character to state how we may react in the different
situations the movie presents. Though it has not the potential to win
an Oscar, "Henry's Crime" is an excellent movie, entertaining, but
above all, insightful, which is something not very common these days.
<|_=00=_|>
This isn't really a think piece although describing its structure makes
it sound like one. Both Keanu Reeves and James Caan's careers have been
on life support for a while but they both had a lot to work with here
and they came through. Vera Farminga is now at the top of my list of
favorite actresses. She is one strong capable woman and that comes
flying out of the screen.

The film which moves from one layer to the next, starting as an
I-have-no-life-but-don't-know-it tragedy, to a theatrical drama which
blossoms about half way through into a comedy which then plows into
reality. But the plot is pretty simple: good guy decided to rob the
bank he was unjustly sentenced to prison for. It's an interesting
premise, but if that's all it had, it'd would only have been mediocre
or average.

I wrote and thanked the theater here for showing it.
