
The Muppets is essentially flawless. I know this is a weird way to
start a review, but I feel I should just forego formalities and cut to
the chase. This year has been a fairly disappointing year for movies,
but The Muppets just about makes up for it all by itself. It's an
absolutely life-affirming tribute to beloved characters and memories
that should have never been allowed to fade into obscurity, and if you
care at all about movies you need to see this, as soon as possible. 

Jason Segel, along with co-writer Nicholas Stoller and director James
Bobin have made a film that is just absolutely bursting at the seams
with affection towards the Muppets, and that love and passion has
instantly rocketed this movie to the very top of the list when it comes
to long history of Muppet shows, movies, and even viral videos. The
film is one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time and
accomplishes this without being crass or cynical; it's smart, witty,
and most importantly, completely heartfelt. Jason Segel with his
obvious and undying love for the Muppets is, by all accounts, the most
deserving person to be given creative control of the Muppets since Jim
Henson himself. 

The original Muppet Movie will always be a timeless classic, and it's
charm and legacy will likely never be topped by another Muppet movie.
However, The Muppets is the closest it has ever come, and, due to the
timeliness and poignancy of the story, I would argue that right at this
moment it is more relevant and moving than even the 1979 classic. I was
unable to stop smiling during the entire running time of the movie,
even while tears were coming to my eyes. 

I know I'm not really reviewing the movie right now, and I'm more just
beaming about how much I loved it, but really, I feel it would be a
disservice to go into details about this movie. Simply put, you need to
see it, and if you don't you're robbing yourself of a truly
extraordinary film experience. This is the most sensational,
inspirational, celebrational, Muppetational movie of the year. Go see
it. Right now. I mean it, go buy tickets for this weekend, and you can
thank me later. 

A+
<|_=00=_|>
"The Muppets" plays the music and lights the lights, but it's not
sensational, inspirational, celebrational, or even muppetational, and
that's the most disappointing thing of all. What we have are two movies
vying for the same space, neither emerging victorious because they're
not handled particularly well. On the one hand, we have a soppy,
innocuous love story between Jason Segel and Amy Adams, which is
occasionally interrupted by musical numbers that have plenty of singing
and dancing but hardly any life. On the other hand, we have the Muppets
themselves, which would be fine except that they're almost completely
reduced to background scenery and aren't given anything much to do. For
all the effort that was put into the sets, the costumes, the special
effects, and of course the puppetry, the film lacks the imagination and
heart that made most of the previous Muppet films so enjoyable.

In the earlier efforts, human actors were essentially supporting
players. The filmmakers had enough sense to let the stories unfold from
the perspective of the Muppets, all of whom were allowed to develop as
characters. This is not the case with this film, which gives ample time
to Segel and Adams. They play Gary and Mary, a wholesome, sunny couple
from the all-American hamlet of Smalltown, where the population number
on the welcome sign fluctuates due to the buses crossing the city
limits. Much of the film is spent on their being deeply in love  and,
of course, on the circumstances that test their emotional fortitude. We
know right from the start that their relationship is silly, but the
real problem is that it's also unnecessary. It doesn't help that
neither Segel nor Adams gives a noteworthy performance. Adams in
particular is surprisingly out of place, spending most of her time
mugging girlishly.

For their tenth anniversary as boyfriend and girlfriend, Gary decides
to take Mary on a trip to Los Angeles. Along for the ride is Gary's
brother, Walter, who, for reasons wisely left unexplained, is a puppet
(performed by Peter Linz). Mary doesn't mind ... as long as Gary makes
time for a romantic dinner. Naturally, Walter is not seeing this from
their perspective. Being only three feet tall and made of foam, he
always felt like an outsider. He found solace only in watching "The
Muppet Show," and in due time, he because the Muppets' biggest fan. His
sole purpose in joining Gary and Mary is to take a tour of the Muppet
Theater in Hollywood (take note, Angelinos: The Muppet Theater is
actually the El Capitan  which, incidentally, is where I saw this
movie). It turns out to be a shadow of its former self, a dilapidated
tourist attraction no one is interested in.

In due time, Walter overhears the wealthy Tex Richman (Chris Cooper),
who says he wants to turn the theater into a Muppet museum but has in
fact discovered oil underneath and plans on taking it all for himself.
The only possible way to save the theater, as stipulated by the Rich
and Famous contract Kermit the Frog signed in 1979, is if Kermit raises
$10 million by a certain date. And so Walter, Gary, and Mary find
Kermit (performed by Steve Whitmire), who now lives in an old, decaying
mansion in Bel Air. He decides that his only hope is to track down the
rest of the Muppets and, in the tradition of the Judy Garland/Mickey
Rooney backyard musicals, put on a show. But is such a thing possible?
As a TV executive (Rashida Jones) eventually makes abundantly clear,
the Muppets just aren't popular anymore. Under her orders, they must
have a celebrity host.

We see some of the Muppets being found. Fozzie (performed by Eric
Jacobson) performs in Reno with a mean tribute band called the Moopets,
Animal (again Jacobson) is undergoing anger management, Gonzo
(performed by Dave Goelz) has become a successful plumbing tycoon, and
Miss Piggy (Jacobson yet again) has made a life for herself in Paris as
the editor of "Vogue" magazine. The rest are gathered during a montage.
What bothers me is that just about none of the Muppets are given their
fair share of screen time; they're not characters, but objects for the
audience to point at and recognize nostalgically. The only exceptions
are Kermit and Miss Piggy, and even then something is missing. For the
first time in their decades of being paired together, they have
absolutely no chemistry.

Like most Muppet movies, we're treated to a slew of celebrity cameos.
These would include Jack Black, Mickey Rooney, Alan Arkin, Neil Patrick
Harris, Sarah Silverman, Whoopi Goldberg, John Krasinski, Selena Gomez,
Zach Galifianakis, Rico Rodriguez, Jim Parsons, Judd Hirsh, Emily
Blunt, and Dave Grohl. If you can think back to 1979's "The Muppet
Movie," you'll recall that all of the guest stars were given more to do
than flash their faces for a star-crazy audience. They played actual
characters. Remember Steve Martin as the irritated waiter? I can count
on one hand the guest stars in "The Muppets" who are given a purpose
and are developed into anything resembling a personality. There's no
reverence, only hype and a lot of one-note jokes. "The Muppets" may
find an audience through its harmless tone, bright colors, and broad
humor, but its thin plot, shoddy soundtrack, and badly developed
characters are unlikely to appease die-hard Muppet fans  or anyone in
need of a good story.

-- Chris Pandolfi (www.atatheaternearyou.net)
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't raised on Barbie dolls, or cartoons. I wasn't in love with
Duck Tales or The Secret of Nimh (in fact it scared me senseless), but
I was raised to love The Muppets. Fozzie the Bear was a safe old friend
who always cheered me up, Kermit was my sense of justice and reason,
Miss Piggy was an exercise in the unrestrained Id, Gonzo was something
I didn't and still don't understand, but he's blue and adorable! The
Muppets are incredibly precious to me. And I just LUCKED out, because
the newest Muppet movie was made by a fan who took all of that into
account and made a film that just celebrated the glory of the Muppets.
Sure there were moments of overkill, sure it sometimes got ridiculous,
but The Muppets is about more than just the Muppets. It's about
yearning for something pure; something innocent without patronizing its
audience. This film was really clever, self aware with a great sense of
humor with a giant heart. Definitely see it!
<|_=00=_|>
The Muppets may quite possibly be one of the best movies of 2011. I
don't just mean that as a fan. The Muppets had everything spot on  it
was clever, entertaining, adorable, heartwarming, and absolutely
hilarious. The magical thing though is that The Muppets pleases
everybody -- average moviegoers and Muppet purists alike, and that I
believe is its greatest triumph. On one side is a modern comedy, chock
full of hysterical celebrity cameos and pop culture references. And on
the other side is a nostalgic throwback to the Muppets era. Those who
remember the old series will unquestionably find delight in seeing
their favorite puppets reunite for another big show, literally.

Funnily enough, the movie treats the Muppet characters as if they were
real life actors, with The Muppets shows and movies being their past
careers. The Muppets haven't seen any action in years (a fact also true
in real life), and each muppet has taken his/her own path in life with
varying degrees of success. When crisis arises, the old troupe is
forced to find each other and give it another go.

It is all weaved through a fascinating metanarrative that begs the
question, what happens to the Muppets when they aren't The Muppets?
After all this time away, can The Muppets make a comeback through a
reunion and relive their former glory days?  a question ultimately
answered by the movie itself. 

The film opens with a common puppet named Walter, whose childhood
consists of watching The Muppets and dreaming of joining them. His
older brother Gary (Jason Segel) extends the invitation to come with
him and his girlfriend of 10 years Mary (Amy Adams) to Los Angeles so
that he can visit the Muppet studio. Much to his disappointment, the
Muppet theater is abandoned and Walter even overhears an oil tycoon's
(Chris Cooper) plot to tear down the place. Walter and Gary quickly
seek out Kermit the Frog to reunite the Muppet crew and remedy the
situation, but all the while Mary is upset that the turn of events is
ruining her 10 year anniversary with Gary.

As you can imagine from the premise alone, the movie is a tribute to
the Muppets in every sense. It travels respectfully through the old
Muppet history, and relives it instead of trying to replace it. In
fact, seeing how each one branched off from the group like members of
an old band and "grew up" gave, I would say, substantially more
character to each Muppet than they ever had before. I think fans will
agree that this is the best possible way the muppets could have
returned.

Simply put, I can't imagine anyone with a heart not enjoying this film.
There's something in it for everybody, especially if you're in the mood
for laughter and catchy musical numbers. The creative humor was a
breath of fresh air. There is plenty breaking of the fourth wall and oh
so much of that lovely deadpan irony and absurdist humor, reminiscent
of old comedies like Airplane! The audience in the theater was cracking
up almost every other moment, myself included. And while humor is its
strong suit, the movie is also an incredibly heartwarming tale of
friends that go their separate ways but are still connected through
their hearts. Moviegoers and Muppet fans alike, go see this movie!

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
There are very few of us twenty-somethings who grew up without the
Muppets. Between Sesame Street, Muppet Show reruns, and videocassettes
of the various Muppet movies, we saw these guys all the time. We even
had one or two theatrical releases of our own during the '90s. (My
personal favorite of those is The Muppet Christmas Carol, which is
still annual holiday viewing.) In recent years, since the very
underwhelming Muppets from Space, we've seen them pop up now and again,
mostly in similarly underwhelming TV projects and in short (yet
hilarious!) YouTube videos. I am quite happy to say that, in this
newest movie, the Muppets are back in a big way! 

The movie starts by introducing us to a new Muppet, Walter, and his
strangely human brother Gary. Gary has planned a trip with his
girlfriend, Mary, to Los Angeles, and he is taking Walter along to
visit the home of his heroes, Muppet Studios. They find the studio to
be in disrepair, and hear of an evil plot to destroy it. Can the
Muppets, and everything we hold dear about them, be saved? To get my
one complaint out of the way, I do feel that this movie was a bit
rushed in places. I wanted more time with these awesome characters, and
it did feel as if they were trying to get from one place to the next a
bit too quickly.

That said, I spent nearly the entire movie with a smile on my face.
These are the Muppets that I grew up with, doing what they are best at
doing, with that gently edgy humor at which they have always excelled.
While there are some moments that are very touching, it is mostly very
funny, with lots of nods to The Muppet Show and The Muppet Movie. While
new little Muppet fans should enjoy this, it will be much more
meaningful to those who have a history with Kermit and Co.

Clearly made with love for Jim Henson and his creations of fur and
felt, The Muppets is the most delightful movie I've seen in theaters
this year.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a disappointment.

On the good side  I couldn't tell it wasn't Frank Oz doing the voice
of Miss Piggy, and there were some giggles to be had, and some
interesting celebrity cameos. I won't spoil them, but there was some
good fan service in the cameos.

On the bad side  Jason Segal. Frank Oz didn't want to be involved
because of the horrible script, and I totally see his point. The movie
isn't a Muppet Movie. It's a Jason Segal film, staring Jason Segal,
produced by Jason Segal, written by Jason Segal, and utterly dominated
by Jason Segal. Jason Segal takes up more than 50% of the film, which
is horrible considering there were about 40 other more interesting
characters all competing for the remaining 50% of screen time. I've
never heard of him before and I never want to again. Jason Segal so
utterly dominates the film that the Muppets themselves are reduced to
mere cameo performances in the film.

With no Frank Oz the voice of Fozzy was just peculiar. Not only
unrecognizable, but occasionally slipped into being a woman's voice.
Weird.

The introduced character of Walter (basically, a Muppet clone of Jason
Segal) is just not interesting. I didn't care about him at all, and
hated the fact that his story dominated the Muppets to the point that
we just don't get any story development about the Muppets themselves.

Amy Adams, usually entertaining, is so dominated by Jason Segal that
her character has no reason to be other than as a romantic object for
Jason Segal. She's a bit of a non-entity in the film, sadly.

When Jason Segal isn't on the screen, this film is quite good. Sadly,
he wasn't off screen all that much.
<|_=00=_|>
For all of you who are wondering if this will even come close to
capturing the magic of the original Muppet movie, I just have one thing
to say to you: go see this movie!!!!! I was a little worried myself
that this movie would not be great, but tonight, I gave it a chance.
And I left with a smile on my face. :) The story is that Gary (Jason
Segel), Mary (Amy Adams), and Walter (the new Muppet) decide to take a
trip down to Los Angeles; Walter wants to see the Muppet studios, but
Mary and Gary are going for their 10th year anniversary of dating.
There, they discover the oil tycoon Tex Richman's (Chris Cooper) plan
to tear down the Muppet theater. That's when they decide to get the
Muppets gang back together, and to put on one last show to raise enough
money to save the theater. I'll let you put two and two together now.

Warning: This just might be my longest review so far on this website.
That's right: I loved this film so much that I have to ramble on and on
about how much I love it.

Let me first start off with the behind-the-scenes work. Jason Segel, I
applaud you. You believed in this movie more than anybody else, and it
is why they trusted you, my man. Thank you so much for everything you
have done on this film; the result is that kids are now laughing at the
Muppets, while adults are reminiscing about the old days when Kermit,
Fozzie, Miss Piggy, Gonzo, and the rest would come into their TV's and
bring laughter into their homes. Both generations are coming out with
smiles on their faces. As for the rest of the crew, thank you so much
for doing your job right. I am so happy that cgi and 3d was not used
here, so thank you for not incorporating those elements.

Now, to the actors (the human actors). Jason Segel and Amy Adams are
perfectly corny in this, but it works here, because it's the muppets!
Their little story on the side was great; it was not overplayed, it was
just right. I won't spoil what this side-story is, but trust me, you'll
enjoy it. Chris Cooper was perfectly evil here. I would say that he was
one of the most evil characters in the history of the Muppets, but even
he gets a song in this movie.

Speaking of the songs, they are all so great and corny here. From the
new songs, like "Life's a Happy Song," to the great old ones, like
(yes, you are hearing this right) "The Rainbow Connection." They even
have the celebrities in this movie singing "Mahna Mahna" in the
credits. Loved every bit of it.

And finally, the stars themselves: the Muppets. The trailers did
emphasize Jason Segel and Amy Adams, but make no mistake, this is a
Muppet film, and the whole entire gang was back. Kermit is still the
normal Muppet trying to pull it all together, Fozzie still has a bad
sense of humour, Miss Piggy is still very selfish, Gonzo is still
trying to perform dangerous stunts, Animal still plays the drums, Rowlf
still plays the piano, and all the others are doing their thing. But,
let's not forget the newest addition to this wonderful gang: Walter. If
you guys are wondering if whether or not he is worth watching, guess
what, he is worth it! He is a really likable character, who grew up
watching the muppets, and therefore has found them to be his place in
life. He is a very nice addition to the family, and I welcome him
aboard.

Simply put, I can't stress on how great this film is. Forget about
Twilight; The Muppets is where it's at! Everything about this film is
great! Honestly, I don't know why Frank Oz said that he felt like this
film did not focus on character development of the Muppets. Um Frank, I
believe that the Muppets have been around for around 35 years now; I
don't think they need that much more character development. Simply put,
this movie is great. Kids will love the Muppets, and Adults will
remember why they loved the muppets when they were growing up. My only
complaint is that this movie should have been longer, but that's barely
a complaint, since I enjoyed the movie so much that I will give it a
10/10. That's right, a 10/10 for me! Welcome back, muppets!
<|_=00=_|>
The Muppets brought a generation of youngsters (myself included) out of
Sesame Street and into a world where they didn't feel like airhead
children any longer.

With THE MUPPET MOVIE, Kermit, Fozzie, Miss Piggy and the gang
discovered each other on a cross-country adventure that was a true
odyssey. But here we've mentally gone back to Sesame Street with some
silly sing-alongs, flat jokes, and an unexciting journey out of a small
town where resides Jason Segel, his school teacher girlfriend, and a
puppet named Walter who loves watching  and relating to  the original
TV series.

They decide to take a trip to the Muppet studio, but it's but a
wasteland. And here they discover a greedy oilman wants to turn the
dilapidated theater into his very own goldmine.

The trio find a melancholy Kermit and they head off to collect the
remaining group throughout America and Europe. Thus the road trip
begins, which could have (should have) taken most of the film like the
original, but it's but a fifteen-minute rushed romp where not much
happens, leading to a big show where the Muppets have to raise ten
million dollars to save their studio.

The Muppets themselves are all present, but they don't do much nor are
they individually vital to the story  but then again, there's not much
of a story to begin (or end) with.

The fundraiser itself is a rushed montage of skits lacking what The
Muppet Show had in creativity and humor. As for star/producer Jason
Segel, whose effort to get the classic icons all back in one movie has
merit, the result is too banal for what these characters, and their
audience (old and young), truly deserve.

And the entire film centers on the long-lost nostalgia of the Muppets
during the late seventies/early eighties, forgetting all the movies
made after the death of Jim Henson, which might have explained their
departure. But perhaps Segel wanted to only remember the golden era;
it's too bad he failed to recreate it.
<|_=00=_|>
While the "We Built This City" number really stands out amongst a few
others in capturing the essence of classic Muppets, overall Jason Segel
and his puppet creation Walter simply wear out their welcome. Jason
Segel (Gary) and Walter (Gary's 'brother') usurp/upstage and prevent
the Muppets from rightfully ever taking center stage, as opposed to
eventually settling in and complimenting Jim Henson's life work. At
some point the film stopped being The Muppets and more so The Jason
Segel & Walter Movie, featuring the Muppets. This awkwardly overbearing
sentiment was cemented in one of the (borderline self congratulatory)
final scenes of the film, where Segel's new 'reluctant' hero Walter is
lifted up by the 'thankful' Muppets, the image on screen is brought to
a still and framed in black and white...

Whatever the motives were, the resulting film begins with a 'tired'
Kermit who never seems to become fully rejuvenated by films end, and a
Fozzie who is... a 'fuzzy' figment from Reno of his former self.
Additionally, neither of the two aforementioned lead Muppet characters
is appropriately voice cast. For the sake of full character comparison
(voice, mannerisms, personality, role, etc.), please take the time to
watch (or re-watch) one (or a few) of the films this one is supposedly
intended to capture the spirit of/pay homage to (in addition to the
original show itself, of course!) such as The Muppet Movie (1979), The
Great Muppet Caper (1981), or even The Muppets Take Manhattan (1984).
Had the Muppets really become that pathetic? Were they really long
since forgotten and discarded to the ash heap of history, only to be
saved with a guest-starring role by Jason Segel (who's passionate about
both puppeteering and writing, granted, but is a little hard to
actually connect with on screen...) and his puppet creation Walter? Or
is this more possibly a case of initial good intention having crossed
the line into a wee bit too much self indulgence and become a vehicle
for a little (ok, a lot of) self promotion? Unfortunately, it seems the
answer to that question is the latter.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a huge fan of the Muppets for decades. Somewhere Jim Henson
is turning in his grave or should be. This is just awful. 

The most immediate criticism that comes to mind is reduced to one word,
pacing. This drags like a corpse through the slowest zombie apocalypse
movie ever made and as much as you hope it will pick up the pace, you
cannot eventually help hoping that someone will put this zombie to rest
with a quick head shot. 

I wanted to like this movie. After all, how can you go wrong with
Muppets, right? You expect formula, maudlin music to tell us how we're
supposed to be feeling, and incongruous shots of glee in the midst of a
terrible situation that you know will somehow be fixed in the last
reel. You hope for better, but you know how the predictable sells, but
this? 

This is a movie that didn't know what it was. It could have been -
emphasis could have been - a meaningful yet light and entertaining
criticism of being left behind and forgotten. You know like the middle
class people who used to have enough income to waste money buying
tickets and renting videos for movies like this. Instead we get a feel
good, Capitalist fueled commentary about combating cynicism.

Amazingly, there is also bitterness painted over as humor. Miss Piggy
and Amy Adams' Mary have men who've done 'em wrong. They weave as much
"I am woman hear me whine" mono-normativity and passive aggressive co-
dependence as you might expect from a 1950s advice column white gloves
included. It sends the wrong message to young women; and the tacit
expectation that men should tow the line and give them whatever they
want no matter what they might want is simply appalling. It has NO
business in a movie that children might see. 

The one ray of hope in the movie was Chris Cooper whose acceptably
obvious-sounding character Tex Richman (Rich Man, get it?) provided a
little Scrooge-esque energy to this latter day Christmas Carol (sans
Christmas of course). Those hopes were quickly dashed, though, as he
managed an even more puppet like performance than his co-stars. 

The one legitimately funny moment of the film came when the gang caught
up with drummer, Animal, at an anger management meeting. I won't spoil
it, but watch out for it, because it produced the only giggle in two
hours. 

Cameos were dismal and apparent from an early appearance of Mickey
Rooney to Zach Galifianakis' Hobo Joe to his Hangover co-star Ken
Jeong. The sole bright spot among the also-ran list was Jim Parsons as
Human Walter. Maybe they'll let him come back in some future
installment and actually show people how funny movies are supposed to
be made.

I only have two thumbs but if I had more I would give this ten thumbs
down.
