
I saw Leap Year today. Matthew Goode has been a favorite of mine since
his performance in Chasing Liberty with Mandy Moore. Amy Adams was new
to me. Both leads were outstanding in this film. I am 58 and single, an
old softy who always looks for a good "chick flick" and this one is a
beaut. I don't want to give away anything. Just see it. You will love
the interplay between Amy and Matthew. Theirs is a very sweet romance
that builds ever so slowly. For laughs, there are pratfalls and other
silliness (that's a good thing). The supporting characters are also
funny and charming. The Irish countryside is gorgeous. On the way out,
I heard a man behind me tell his wife "That was a good movie. I'd see
it again." So would I. Definitely!
<|_=00=_|>
I just got back from the theater under an hour ago, and am still in a
good mood after having watched this. Some romantic comedies are more
comedy than romance, or more romance than comedy, but this one blends
the two into something especially delightful. I left the theater with
more of a bounce in my step and a wide smile on my face, despite having
had a not so great day.

It's not perfectly original--there were parts where I was able to say
ahead of time precisely what was going to happen next--but it is not
entirely formulaic, either. And there is something comfortable about
the familiar, especially if it is done slightly different.

Matthew Goode surprised me in his role, and there the originality is
quite refreshing. I hadn't realized exactly how limited of roles I am
used to seeing the typical "rom-com" male fit into, until he kept
breaking my expectations. And I like how real Amy Adams is: no harsh
looking clavicle bones sticking out, minimal makeup, and her face
hasn't been pinched and pulled into a tight canvas.

The Irish scenes are gorgeous, and the accents entertaining. And, I
don't know if there was anyone else who was pleased, but I was ecstatic
at this proof of a great romantic comedy kept within a PG rating. No
embarrassing scenes to make mixed company awkward; no offensive
profanity. It IS PG, of course, so don't expect "Little Mermaid"
standards, but it was still incredibly clean for the genre. I have
little brothers aged 7 and 9 (who I'm very protective of), and I would
not have felt embarrassed to allow them to watch this.

Overall, a great show for the genre. The best I've seen in a long time.
Not perfect, but if you're in it for entertainment and a feel-good
story, rather than as a movie critic, I think you'll really enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Anna (Amy Adams) - busy, dedicated, talented, goal oriented with one
track mind on life matters. Has "what she wants and not what she
needs".

Jeremy (Adam Scott) - accomplished cardiologist with no need to be
concerned. Has what he wants and not sure what he needs. Loves himself
and thinks everyone else does, too.

Declan (Matthew Goode) - very much a Hugh Jackman "coulda-been",
content with what he has and thinks he needs nothing, Luck 'o the Irish
did nothing for him but he doesn't believe in luck anyway.

As Anna herself put it, she has "what she wants but not what she
needs". Since becoming an accomplished "Stager", decorating homes to
display in hopes of selling, she happily puts herself on display,
knowing exactly what it takes. We see her first known personal
disappointment when she expects her boyfriend, Jeremy, to propose. He
is so comfortable with her company, earrings are the obvious gift to
surprise his girlfriend of 4 years, and not an engagement ring. She is
further disappointed when he immediately has to leave the country
temporarily. Being the woman she is, she spends no time with self pity
but decides it's time to go to Dublin and propose to him as Leap Year
permits.

Leap Year is an excellent romantic comedy. I was reminded of Doris Day
and Audrey Hepburn comedies. Nothing hilarious, Amy really has
wonderful physical comedic skills but still allows her charm to come
across and make me smile. While the movie gets a little clumsy, nothing
is bad enough to keep me from appreciating her. Her chemistry with
Matthew Goode played well. He was fun to watch as the Irish he-man who
lives a casual life with no expectations and no concern for others'.
But then along comes Anna, and their one-track lives intertwine and
soon the future becomes less clear. Anna and Declan travel to Dublin
finding strangers and situations that force them to examine life and
its meaning, or lack thereof. A forked road appears and we find both
now have reason to question a future with or without each other.

Please don't expect hilarity. Sit down, get comfy, and admire a good,
simple love story. It's what we all need.

7 of 10
<|_=00=_|>
I had a chance to see an advance showing, and I found it to be quite
enjoyable. But for me, Amy Adams can do no wrong. She lights up the
screen in every scene, whether in a drama such as "Doubt," or a lighter
story, as in "Julie & Julia." Her character, Anna, is sweet and
vulnerable, but self-reliant when she has to be. The male actors
support Ms Adams admirably and the pace never lags, thanks to competent
direction of Anand Tucker. The Irish countryside is spectacular. The
story is a variation on an old theme, but it is retold in movies
because it is a good one. This is a fine date movie, but enjoyable as
well for those of us who fondly remember the sometimes funny, sometimes
painful quest for a mate.
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely adored this movie. So much so that I watched it 6 times
within one week. Not because it's anything amazing or Oscar-worthy.
Don't expect anything completely awe- inspiring, complex, or brilliant.
It's just a simple love story. And what I really appreciate about this
movie is how innocent and lighthearted it is. Kind of a breath of
fresh, romantic air. Adams and Goode have amazing chemistry and perform
their personalities to a T. It was really fun to watch the steady but
stubborn transformation of their relationship throughout the movie. If
you're a little bored by the acting in the very beginning, don't give
up on it... It gets better! And it's even better the second time
around.
<|_=00=_|>
The uptight stager Anna Brady (Amy Adams) from Boston is a planner that
stages apartments for Realtors. Anna has been dating the cardiologist
Jeremy (Adam Scott) for four years and they are buying a high standard
apartment in Davenport together. Anna expects Jeremy to propose her in
a dinner but he gives a pair of rings to her instead and travels to
Dublin for a congress. Anna decides to meet him in Dublin on the
February 29th and propose him in accordance with an old Irish folklore
tradition from the Fifth Century of leap-year proposals by women.
However, her airplane is forced to land in Wales due to bad weather and
she is not able to find a connection since the Dublin airport is
closed. She decides to travel in a supply vessel but she is forced to
disembark in Dingle due to a storm. Anna walks to the only restaurant
and inn of the area and she hires the cynical and sarcastic owner
Declan (Matthew Goode) to drive her to Dublin. Declan accepts to drive
her since he needs money to quit his debts and along their journey they
have many incidents. But they fall in love for each other but when they
finally arrive in Dublin, Jeremy proposes Anna. 

"Leap Year" is a delightful and innocent romantic comedy. The sweet and
gorgeous Amy Adams shines in every scene and Matthew Goode shows a
perfect chemistry with her. The plot is predictable but I laughed a lot
with the funny situations along the journey of Anna to arrive in
Dublin. I know that there are bitter viewers that do not enjoy this
type of film that will never be nominated to any award. But I loved
"Leap Year" with the lovely Amy Adams and the awesome landscapes of
Ireland. My suggestion: invite your wife, fianc√©e or girlfriend; enjoy
this adorable film; and always kiss her like it was the first time and
the last time. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Casa Comigo?" ("Marry Me?")
<|_=00=_|>
Where do I start?? Oh yes, why do Americans always portray ALL Irish
people as backward, smelly, Guinness guzzling, tractor driving,
mumbling smelly farmers that wear tweed hats and knitted jumpers. Oh
yes... and the mobile phone invention hasn't reached Ireland yet either
by all accounts. Public transport is a bit of a disaster too you know!
And why would the 'cool Irish guy' EVER go for an annoying,
materialistic, American girl? Why does that always happen in these
stupid films too? This film is so disgustingly predictable. I do like
the occasional 'Rom Com' (I hate that word!) but this is dire,
diabolical drivel at it's best! The groaning continued long after the
film ended. And the thing that gets me....most people on this website
loved it. Dear God...
<|_=00=_|>
It has been years since my wife and I have seen a new romantic comedy
that did not offend or annoy us with some element or another. Even our
favorite current director in the genre, Richard Curtis, slips in a bit
of unnecessary Chaucerian vulgarity. At his best, it redeems itself,
but it seems a fixation (artistic or commercial, I wonder?).

This comedy could have been directed by Frank Capra. It is rooted, it
is humanistic, and it is earnestly funny in spots.

She (played by Amy Adams) is an American career woman who has responded
to her father's (played by John Lithgow) financial misadventures by
forging a life of success and security. He is a cardiac specialist who
likes to consult on surgeries from the dinner date by IM and share the
pictures at the table. The other he is a cranky Irish tavern owner on
the brink of ruin conducting her to Dublin after her own travel
misadventure because he needs the money to stave off ruin.

Ireland serves as the fairyland where, at the end of a long
overcompensation for her father's flibbertigibbet ways, she finds her
total control solution also has unfortunate limitations.

Excellent work.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Leap Year at a screening before the holidays, and found it much
more "enchanting" than the typical romantic comedy. The story line is
simple - basically, it is "It Happened One Night" in Ireland: apartment
"stager" Amy Adams, tired of waiting for her uptight, longtime
boyfriend to propose, decides to meet him on business in Dublin on Leap
Day when tradition states that a man must accept a woman's proposal.
Weather forces her to be diverted, first to Wales and then to the west
coast of Ireland, she has to be driven to Dublin by and disgruntled
bitter local.

But while the story is straight-ahead, the movie is extremely charming
due to the terrific chemistry in between Amy Adams and Matthew Good.
Whereas other romantic comedies pander to the lowest common denominator
with base humor, this one feels much more like "4 Weddings and a
Funeral" or "Local Hero." The characters seem simple at first, but we
see the depth beyond them as the movie goes on. The comedy is always
sharp, and special kudos to the actors who play the superstitious
friends of Matthew Good, but this movie never forces in the pratfalls
and dumb jokes that we see in your typical romantic comedy movie. And
when there a bigger laughs (a scene at a wedding is particularly
funny), the movie delivers. 

There are a couple of slow spots, especially at the very beginning, but
the last 20 minutes are funny, touching and real. I think it is a very
good movie for our times right now, with a message that rebukes control
and superficiality and all the trappings of what most of feel makes for
a successful life. And our audience was with it throughout, and
applauded at the end.
<|_=00=_|>
OK ...first of all the Cliffs of Moher are not in Dingle so don't plan
a trip there expecting to see those amazing cliffs ...they are in
Connemara, on Ireland's West coast. Also a ferry from Wales can bring
you to Dublin in 2 hours .... to get to Dingle will take you 24 hrs!!!
I know it's just a movie but please!! Also could they not find an
equally handsome Irish actor to play the Irish fella - British born Mr.
Goode's accent was awful and all over the place. He couldn't decide
himself what part of Ireland he was supposed to be from. Last but not
least nobody in Ireland would ever get married on a Sunday (or plan it
outside at the end of Feb) .... total blasphemy. I enjoyed the comedy
and the chemistry between the 2 main characters and apart from the very
predictable script it was a cute little movie. I suppose I'm just a wee
bit offended that the writers couldn't have made the back drop a bit
more believable.
