
OK, what is going on please? Here is an excellent, skilfully crafted,
intelligently paced and well structured movie with a most complimentary
screenplay, and it should of course be rated at 8.x out of 10. Yet, as
I write it is barely rated above average. Sorry, but I have to knock
myself on the head a couple of times just to check that I am now indeed
only seeing 6.7 out of ten for a most excellent relationship themed
movie.

I am not at all sure what is wrong with most people who've rated this
movie "a notch above so so", save for the usual obvious problems when
it comes to matters of 'most people'... Nonetheless, I am reminded that
most people often get it right: Matchpoint was correctly rated, Two
Lovers was fairly rated, Before Sunrise also got the high rating it so
deserved. However, here is a movie which is every bit as excellent as
those named movies, albeit being in its own inimitable way different,
yet it is still currently (Spring 2011) faced with the travesty of
being so unjustly under-appreciated.

Please watch this movie if the themes of modern relationships, loyalty,
trust, and betrayal are of any interest to you, and you should find, as
I did, that its insanely 'above average rating' is well short of the
mark. For this movie is a near masterpiece as a study of such themes.
The performances of the lead actors/actresses, its screenplay,
direction, score, production are all first rate. Don't miss this movie
if you've a brain in your head, and if themes concerning relationships
are of any interest to you at all. I also rated Matchpoint, Before
Sunrise, & Two Lovers very highly, in case you're wondering if my word
is worth following. Then you should also find it to be worth a far more
realistic 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Rather enjoyed this film at the Rome Film Festival last night. The
atmosphere of New York by night and the soundtrack itself made it worth
the half an hour delay getting in! The main performances are strong,
Keira puts in a surprisingly convincing interpretation as the wife who
meets her previous love the day her husband is out of town with a
female colleague he likes. It discusses the nature of love, betrayal,
marriage and sentiment in a thoughtful way, without the usual labelling
of people as cheaters and victims. It should encourage us to realise
that life and relationships are more complex and that ultimately,
nobody really belongs to anyone (however much we might like to think we
do). It's a shame these days that we only get to see the lives of the
beautiful, very well-to-do folk (in their wonderful apartments, sipping
on fine wine) on the big screen as if temptation within marriage was a
luxury that only the wealthy and obscenely photogenic can afford.
Anyway, universal themes are dealt with well and it's good fodder for a
long conversation afterwards.
<|_=00=_|>
I am very surprised "Last Night" got a rather lukewarm user rating on
IMDb. From my point of view it is a movie that is very honest, if
terrible in its depiction of relationships, love and faith. There were
many moments, where I expected the movie to lose its momentum, where
the filmmakers could have chickened out, but that never happened. Maybe
too much is talked about, when some things could have been told through
pictures. Then again, I found all dialog very believable. My only
criticism concerns Sam Worthington's rather wooden performance. Apart
from that "Last Night" really knocked me off my feet, from the
beginning right until the brilliant final scene.
<|_=00=_|>
LAST NIGHT is a tightly woven tale that explores the psyches of four
people in one fascinating evening. This is the initial directing outing
for Iranian-American writer Massy Tadjedin ('The Jacket', 'Leo') who
also created the story and the script: the film is so fine that we
doubtless will be hearing more about her. 

Joanna Reed (Keira Knightley) is a beautiful young writer married to
commercial real estate developer Michael Reed (Sam Worthington) in what
appears to be a happy marriage despite the struggle between two
careers. Michael takes Joanna to a company party and there she observes
the soft spoken Michael paying attention to one of his co-workers, the
sensuous Laura (Eva Mendes), an act that Joanna feels indicates
unfaithfulness or at least suspicious behavior on Michael's part. The
seed of doubt is planted, Michael is leaving for a business trip to
Philadelphia the next morning with his coworkers Andy (Anson Mount) and
Laura, and there is friction between Joanna and Michael that Michael's
reassurance cannot overcome. The next day as Joanna sops for coffee she
encounters an old flame from her time spent writing in Paris - Alex
Mann (Guillaume Cadet) - and they agree to meet that evening. Chemistry
resurges and that evening as Alex and Joanna dine with Alex's publisher
Truman (Griffin Dunne), both are questioned by Truman about their past
affair, Joanna admits she is now married, and Alex is in a relationship
in Paris. The couple leaves and circumstances lead them to return to
Joanna's apartment where they face their feelings. At the same time as
this evening is developing Michael and Laura enter a seduction dance:
Michael is faithful to Joanna but the emotionally bruised Laura
persists in her attempt to pull Michael into her web. The manner in
which each of these temptations resolves and the aftermath is the
brilliance of Massy's writing and direction: this is a story written
very much form a women's vantage and that fact allows each of the
characters to become very well defined and credible. 

The quartet of actors is well matched: Knightley continues to mature as
a fine actress, Sam Worthington breaks out of his stodgy shell to allow
us to see a man driven by fidelity and tempted by lust, Eva Mendes
takes Laura to a higher dimension of being, and Guillaume Cadet is
undeniably an Alex who few women could resist: he has true star power.
The method of pairing the development of the one night by flashing back
and forth between the progress of the two couples in the dance of
seduction vs fidelity is extremely successful. This is a thinking
person's movie and an introduction of a writer/director who already has
shaped the beginnings of a successful career. Highly Recommended. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is one of few I am going to watch again. Actually, I can't
wait to have my own copy.

I could agree that the storyline is not most original ever but this is
the movie you watch not to see pictures but to feel sensibility. I
imagine if you were never involved in that kind situation it could be
hard to catch the sight of the pain, misery and suffering. However I am
not sure about the character of Keira Knightley. I believe she is a
great actor but the character she played was ambiguous. In some scenes
she acted like an easy-going girl who considers her ex-love like some
fun but later you see how much it hurts to her.

I cant understand what type of girl the authors wanted to make of Eva's
Mendes' character. When she told a story about random incidents letting
decide her behavior she looks like fragile and unsure girl but later i
could call her quite a bitch. However I would like to believe that she
should feel quite guilty about falling in love with a married man.

I was expecting the character of Sam Worthington to be firmer. On the
other hand then he would look like malignant cheater however he was the
victim of circumstances.

I never saw Guillaume Canet before this movie and I was excited about
his likeliness to McDreamy Patrick Dempsey. His playing was perfect, he
expressed his feeling in such a persuasively way and he deserved the
name of McDreamy.

I was both happy and unhappy about the end of the movie. Any end case
would have called lots of objections and discontent. However I was
expecting it would tell what is the right end in that type of stories.
As you may guess there is no right end. And the movie gives you much
potential to think.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this movie at the Tribeca Film Festival and can say that I was
truly taken aback by the brilliance of such a simple concept. The movie
about a married couple amid marital temptation is very well acted and
directed. The film captures the vibe of the Tribeca lifestyle and the
trials of a young marriage. Sam Worthington does an amazing job as the
reserved husband in love with his wife. The film is well-paced and
builds to a crescendo of will they or wont they infidelities. Visually
the movie is simple but the effects of overlapping pictures and
conversations highlights the similarities of temptation and the
differences between men and women. The story was truly amazing and the
best movie I have seen in 2011.
<|_=00=_|>
I generally find the romantic dramas boring, because besides of the
fact that they use to abuse of the same clich√©s over and over again,
their intention of touching us or making us cry feels even more forced
and dishonest when it is not well handled, which is what happens in
most of the cases. However, I decided to watch Last Night because I had
some free time. To my surprise, I ended up liking the movie very much
because of its detailed narrative, brilliant performances and for
daring itself to raise interesting questions about the marriage, the
faithfulness, and the responsibilities from a couple.

One of the things I most liked from Last Night is that the screenplay
does not stay on the simple level of a moralistic fable, but that
instead of that, it involves us gradually on the game of emotions,
circumstances and decisions which will influence in the couple's
destiny. The rhythm from Last Night is slow (but never boring), and the
spectators who expect to find the runaway melodrama from films like
Closer and Eyes Wide Shut might feel unsatisfied with it. On the
opposite, Last Night focuses its attention on the small
details...Joanna's expression when she imagines the road her life could
have taken if she had stayed in Paris; the poaching looks from Michael
to Laura...what I wanna say with this is that Last Night is not a
cathartic soap opera melodrama, but a methodic and intelligent
characters study with an emotional minimalism and thematic clarity.

And we also have the extraordinary performances from Keira Knightley
and Sam Worthington. I think that Knightley brought her best
performance so far in here, because of the amazing conviction and
aplomb she shows in her character. As for Worthington, he shows a much
wider histrionic range than the one he displayed in the action and
adventure films Terminator Salvation, Avatar and the remake of Clash of
the Titans, and I hope to see him in more dramatic roles. Eva Mendes
and Guillaume Canet also bring solid performances, but Knightley and
Worthington definitely steal the show with their fantastic works.

Considering that the romantic dramas generally bore me, the fact that
Last Night kept me fascinated from the beginning to the end, and left
me thinking once it was over, is something remarkable. In conclusion, I
consider this film worthy of an enthusiastic recommendation because,
leaving a few moments of a slight pretension aside, this is a
brilliantly written, solidly directed and perfectly acted film.
<|_=00=_|>
It's rare when a film's rating actually starts to climb the more people
get to see it, so I'm really happy because Last Night totally deserves
it.

A lot has been already discussed in other reviews, let me comment on
things which haven't been covered yet. 

*** Possible spoilers ***

Apart from main themes of the film: "Which is worse - physical or
emotional unfaithfulness?", "Can suspicion give rise to infidelity?"
and "What do we regret more, doing something or blowing the only chance
and not doing it?", I love the way Massy shows the irony of getting
what one wants. Or rather the way it happens in real life: when we get
it, it's not quite exactly WHAT we wanted and usually not WHEN we
wanted it. Joanna is the perfect example of that. She wants Michael to
love her, spend more time with her, and to be his sole object of
attraction. When he realizes how much she means for him at the end, and
he himself wants to give Jo what she wanted, she couldn't care less...
now she's all about Alex. She gets exactly what she wanted but too
late.

And then there is this theme of temptation and how people are fighting
it. Massy Tadjedin shows all the hypocrisy of this notion. Temptation
is not something awful that people FIGHT, it's something pleasurable
that they actively SEEK. Very often anticipation of a deed is more
gratifying that the deed itself. This is what temptation is. It's
almost like foreplay. People love toying with an IDEA, playing all
possible scenarios in their mind, modifying it, perfecting it. And at
the same time they have this conceited view of themselves as being
noble because they are "resisting" the ACT. But the truth is that if
temptation really was something horrible that we have to fight with all
our might, we would do all we could to avoid putting ourselves in such
position. Joanna would never go out with Alex, Michael would never end
up in this pool with Laura. They did that not because they saw that as
a challenge and wanted to examine the strength of their character, but
because they wanted it, because it was (almost) as good as fulfilling
their fantasies.

Finally Joanna and Alex are writers, and as such are used to living in
the world of heightened emotions. Drama is their air. They are both
aware, maybe her more than him, that fulfillment quenches the urge,
while longing is more powerful and eternal than desire. What seems like
an almost unbearable sacrifice on her part, in fact may be her way NOT
to give up this love.

***Spoilers end***

Acting is fantastic from everyone.

I am Joanna in real life, and I didn't sense a single false note in
Keira's performance. It's heartbreaking because it's so true.

I've never been the greatest fan of Eva Mendes but she won me over in
her last scenes.

The only character of the four I've never been is Alex, but Guillame
Canet ¬ñ if not exactly helped me understand his behavior ¬ñ at least
made me feel sympathetic to him.

Finally Sam Worthington was tasked with probably the hardest and most
ungrateful job. Firstly, his Michael, unlike Alex, is not the kind of
man women fantasize about, but the kind they end up marrying. If Alex
is caviar, Michael is bread ¬ñthe unexciting, taken for granted one, but
one who's essential, who provides safety and stability for neurotic
Joanna. That this unpretty, almost starchy affair probably constitutes
the most exciting thing that has happened in his life of late, borders
on poignant. On top of that, the two couples move to the steps of a
different dance. While Joanna/Alex let their bodies speak with more and
more broad gestures through the night, with Michael/Laura it becomes
much more vital what they do NOT do or say. Once they both know exactly
where they are, each step becomes like walking a minefield - one word
or gesture too many from him, and Laura may mistake it for a sign of
his readiness to go where he still hasn't decided whether to go or not.
So as the film unfolds, the plot requires this quiet and uncomplicated
guy to go progressively more restrained and subdued. And still,
constrained by these tight borders of the character, Worthington
manages to give his Michael subtle variety: at the opening party
Michael has this adorable innocence of an attractive guy who's
completely oblivious that he is; he is the real, most earnest self in
the moments of intimacy with his wife; and finally when Laura makes her
intentions clear he becomes self-conscious, visibly uneasy and
unaccustomed to being the one who's appreciated and admired for once. I
feel pity for him that this really solid performance doesn't seem to
resonate with critics, but at the same time I'm grateful that he chose
truthfulness over the urge to show off as an actor.

Special mention - one doesn't get more charming than Griffin Dunne. His
Truman stole every scene he was in!

One last word about writing.

Massy Tadjedin directed the film based on her own script, and I thought
that she would be very "protective" of every line. I had a chance to
read it and I still vividly remember the first 20 pages or so because
what the characters say there are verbatim the conversations I once
had, same words, just a different language. But in the film, almost all
of it is gone. It's incredible because the feeling is the same, but
instead of dialog it's all done with gestures. And this is what makes
it so much more gratifying - we're given the chance to watch, decipher
the subtleties of body language, recognize the patterns we know from
our life. Fantastic!

I'm really looking forward to her next film.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this movie because it shows real life.There are many
difficulties and temptations in a relationship, especially a marriage
and that could be a start for someone to watch it.Sometimes it's good
to get an idea of what really is going on in reality.We are so used to
see a happy end and foolish problems and many may not appreciate the
plot .I believe though that the end is a little poor, but maybe on the
other hand it lets the viewer decide what would he do in the
circumstance that was presented, because the characters can relate to
every common man or woman.I also liked very much the chemistry of
Knightley and Canet, but in my opinion Worthington and Mendes were not
really the best choices, not that their act wasn't good, it just did
not hit the eye. I also loved the location!
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't used the above summary "line" for a while but must have for
quite a few times in the 870 odd postings to-date. What it conjures up
in my mind is a piece of intimate, self-contained, exquisite cinema
that is, it wouldn't be far wrong to say, the opposite to an epic,
although they can be equally pleasurable to experiences.

The montage of the opening scene deftly sets the stage. After a brief
introduction of a young New York couple who are dressing (and casually
chatting) for an evening out, the scene cuts back and forth between
sketches of the party scene and Joanna's (Keira Knightley) pensive,
reflective face in the cab on their way home. What "happened" in the
party is just Joanna noticing how Michael (Sam Worthington) spends most
of the evening in what appears intimate conversion with an attractive
colleague Laura (Eva Mendes) whose existence she has never been aware
of before, despite the fact that Michael was recently in a business
trip with her. The 4-year marriage comes under a stress test when it
Joanna realizes that Michael and Laura will be on another trip together
in the next day, to Philadelphia (even though this is only for one
night and they are accompanied by other colleagues). Then, shortly
after Michael has left, Joanna bumps into Alex (Guillaume Canet), an
"on-and-off" French boyfriend from Paris where they first met. They are
both writers, although Joanna has so far published only one book ("a
very good book", Alex keeps telling people).

The rest of the movie follows the development of these two pairs, in
New York and Philadelphia respectively, cutting back and forth and
often employing voice-over to precede the scenes. I have made this
sound mechanical, maybe even deliberately, but there is no point trying
to give a pedantic account of how mesmerizing this movie becomes. The
enjoyment comes from watching it.

Maybe just a few hints, and SPOILERS. In Philadelphia, it is
doubtlessly sensual, but also assiduously subtle. Don't expect torrid
love scenes (although there is a brief one - love scene, thats is, but
not torrid). With absolutely alluring full lips, Mendes would rather
have her seductive charm ooze from a languid dialogue of her
heartbreaking lost love. In New York, things are even more bittersweet,
when layer after layer of hidden emotions are peeled away, revealing
the depth of feeling Joanna and Alex have for each other. She ends up
"in bed" with him, in the ultra-literal sense (think Bill Murray and
Scarlett Johansson in "Lost in translation"). One film review likens
their evening and night together to "Before sunrise" (1995), which is
quite insightful. There's one difference though: Jesse and Celine made
love, twice (as we found out in "Before sunset" (2004)), before the
night was over.

It is a pleasure to see Knightley maturing into a role that she hasn't
been seen in before. Worthington, after an assortment of worlds such as
Earth after a nuclear holocaust, an exotic planet called Avatar and
mythological Greece, in good in coming down to earth with a troubled
marriage and facing temptation. Canet is such a heart-throb that had he
been English, he would be the undisputed successor to Hugh Grant, and
with more charm and less comedy.

The movie is intelligently open-ended, consistent with its
contemplative tone.

Finally, I can't finish without pointing out how international this
movie is: the four leads are, respectively, English, Australian, French
and Cuban-American. Just to hear the variety of ways English is spoken
is sheer fun.
