
"Alpha and Omega" is your standard kiddy flick of conflict and
resolution with much detail to the 3D imagery and not enough to keep
Mom and Dad entertained. The story brings nothing new to the party;
it's like the friend that you invite and tell him to bring a side dish.
"Toy Story 3" spends all night baking cookies for everyone. "Despicable
Me" puts forth an effort by bringing barbecue weenies in a Crock Pot.
"How to Train Your Dragon" takes the time and mixes 7-Up and punch.
Then there is "Alpha and Omega," who stops at the local gas station and
picks up a fun sized bag of Doritos for itself and arrives 30 minutes
late. 

The story begins by introducing us to the main characters, Humphrey
(voiced by Justin Long, the guy from the Apple commercials) as the
Omega wolf and Kate (voiced by Hayden Panettiere from "Heroes"), as the
Alpha wolf. They are acquaintances at the beginning of the movie, where
it is hinted at that Humphrey has a crush on Kate. After a winter at
Alpha school Kate is being trained to become a leader of the pack and
Humphrey is still palling around with his knucklehead friends.

Humphrey and Kate's wolf pack has a rival pack that is trying to take
the caribou hunting from them. That doesn't fare well with Winston
(voiced by Danny Glover) who is not only the leader of the pack but
also Kate's father. And, who is the leader of the rival pack? It's Tony
(voiced by Dennis Hopper, in his last film), who has some unexplained
history with Winston. Tony. Really? This great wolf is the leader, the
old wise sage, and that's the best name they could come up with? Tony
the Wolf. Sounds too much like Tony the Tiger. 

Humphrey is in love with Kate but she is arranged to be courted by the
rival pack's Alpha male, Garth. The packs have a ritual where the
adolescents meet at a mountain in Jasper National Park to howl at the
moon. It's comparable to going to a junior high dance at the taxidermy
display inside a Cabela's. There was a song and dance element here that
felt out of place. I felt uncomfortable to see these wolves dance
seductively together in a kid's film. At that point, I understood why
wolves chewed off their own leg when caught in a trap. 

At the "howling" Humphrey and Kate are hit with a dart gun and
transported from their park in Canada to a park in Idaho. Here they are
set free and it's up to them to find a way back home. 

The couple is eventually befriended by Marcel, some sort of a cross
between a Canadian goose and either a bald eagle or a vulture (I
couldn't tell) and his side kick Paddy, a yellow duck. These two birds
are avid golfers. Hitting the golf ball gives the movie a reason to
exploit their 3D technology. Hey, you paid for it; you might as well
use it, right guys? 

Marcel and Paddy keep showing up during the movie to act as guides for
Humphrey and Kate. It's not fully explained how these four keep running
into each other but it just so happens that they always show up at the
right time. 

The rest of the picture is about how Humphrey and Kate work as a team
to get back home while realizing an Alpha and Omega wolf can have deep
feelings for each other. 

Should you see this movie? Nope. It was trying to be kiddy movie with
goofy elements of bathroom humor and at the same time a movie with
adult themes about falling in love. 

The 3D action sequences were well done. There were several scenes of
Humphrey finding old trees to slide down hills and incorporate the
first and second person angles of sliding. And, as my 11-year-old
daughter pointed out, whenever these wolves needed an old tree to use
as a sled it just so happened to be within reaching distance. How many
dead trees are there in a forest? 

If you absolutely feel that you still need to go, bring your kids if
they are under the age of 10 and if they have very little imagination
on their own. Or just wait until it's out on DVD because after you
spend $10 each you won't be howling with excitement, it will be more of
a whimper.
<|_=00=_|>
Alpha and Omega is a competent baby-sitter but doesn't have quite the
chops to be as absorbing for adults as well, as Pixar movies do. The
movie is a standard fare love story and standard fare animal animation
somewhat encased in a male bashing advertisement's philosophy. Humphrey
is the idiotic male whose carelessness actually is a major plot point
in the story while Kate is a mature, responsible, competent hunter,
pretty, yada yada and so on.

The quality of the movie is top notch, and has a beautiful 3D that
creates makes the scenes look much better and vibrant, though darker
like using sunglasses using the 3d glasses. The movie is reminiscent of
a lot of animal movies that happen in jungles that partially cross
paths with humans. The golfer geese are funny and the bears, caribou
all provide a lively background for the story to unfold.

Great movie to go with your daughter if you can bear the kid directed
non-Pixar movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this lovely animation movie with family during my vacations. Had
not heard much about it as there was not much TV promotions and
publicity before the release, but was pleasantly surprised by the high
quality of animation, character building, the story and many other
aspects. For my family it turned out to be a perfect vacation movie.
The soundtrack of the movie is also worth mentioning here. Referring to
another review here criticizing the movie for beyond understandable
reasons, I believe movies are made for having fun, and criticizing them
for stupid reasons like this movie was inspired by whatever is
nonsense, because at the end of the day most of the animation movies
including by all top studios follow the fun, family, adventure,
thrills, some moral/ethics at the end of the story themes and this
one's no exception. We enjoyed it throughly until it lasted plan to buy
the Blu Ray disc for the kids as they loved it as much.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been waiting for this movie for years, mainly because I am a
wolf-lover and a cartoon lover.

First off, let's get into what the movie is about. Kate is an Alpha
wolf of a pack, Alpha's are the pack-leaders. Humphrey is an Omega
wolf, who's job is to play as peacemaker and retain calmness in the
pack, so the story-writers got their jobs fairly accurate. There are
two rival packs who want to fight for each others land... why? Small
amount of caribou, good reason, so it make the rival pack more like
anti-heroes rather than villains who want to hurt others for the sake
of it.

To keep the peace, Tony (Kate's father) arranges Kate to marry the
rival pack's Alpha son, Garth. At first, I was going to expect Garth to
be some snobby rich-like stuck-up who doesn't care about Kate... I was
taken off-guard when Garth actually was handsome AND had a heart of
gold. So the movie wasn't TOO predictable! In the scene where Humphrey
and Kate were tranquilized, it just... happened! No build-up of the
park rangers coming, Humphrey and Kate were just talking, suddenly
SNAP! I was taken off-guard by that! I mean, I KNEW it was coming due
to the trailers, but didn't know WHEN. I also liked the conversation
Humphrey and Kate had between the crates, you can't see their faces,
allowing the viewer to use their imagination on what's going on.

Some people can't wrap their minds around a golfing goose. Right, WHY
was a goose golfing? ... my answer, WHO CARES?! Just WATCH it and
ACCEPT it... a GOOSE is playing GOLF... it's FUNNY! Who cares if it
doesn't make sense (except for nit-picky perfectionists who are
incapable of finding/keeping jobs that require creativity)? Some people
complained about the potty-humor. I personally LIKE potty-humor, and to
those that don't, there's only like one or two of those scenes. To
those that like that kind of humor, there are only a few scenes of it,
but they're WORTH it LOL Humphrey and Kate combine what they have
learned as Alphas and Omegas to overcome obstacles, such as the
bear-slide. Over time, Kate learned how to have fun like an Omega,
giving her some character development. At first, she was annoyed by
Humphrey's "rain dance" but then she laughed and enjoyed the log ride
at the end.

Meanwhile, back at the packs, Kate's sister Lilly offered to show Garth
around. She even taught him how to howl, whom Garth was a BAD howler,
birds falling out of the sky twitching. As the movie progressed, the
pile of birds kept getting bigger (to me, THAT'S funny!). However, over
time, Garth and Lilly started to fall for each other, and it was coming
SLOWLY, so it wasn't rushed, you know. To me, that's "I'm marrying you
because I love you" instead of "I'm only arranged to marry you."
Eventually, Kate and Humphrey return and, even though Kate admits to
herself she's in love with Humphrey, she uses her responsible
personality to go on with the marriage with Garth. During the wedding,
both Kate and Garth are unsure of each other, Lilly looks sad... but in
the end, they both agree that they couldn't do it because she said
"I've fallen in love with an Omega" ... everyone was shocked to hear
that (can you BLAME them if you were them?!) But Garth understood,
because "I've fallen in love with an Omega too" and Garth and Lilly
embrace, but the rest of the pack fights! ... which provokes a caribou
stampede! During the stampede, Kate's father and Garth's father,
leaders of the rival packs, get caught in the stampede! Soon, Kate and
Humphrey use what they've learned in their journey to rescue them! But
Kate is hurt. This was a sad scene. I knew it was going to have Kate
come back, but it still felt like an eternity... kind of like in "Toy
Story 3" where the toys were in the incinerator ready to be burned
alive... but saved at the last minute. Finally, the packs are united,
Kate is with Humphrey, and Garth is with Lilly, and everybody's happy.
Some people don't like happy endings... WHY?! 

My only complaint was I wish Humphrey and Kate's journey would have
been longer, like in "Bolt." But "Bolt" was all about the journey
whereas "Alpha and Omega" were about feelings. I guess they overdid it
with having the wolves stand on their hind legs, but it was still most
on all fours. Some people complained about how the wolves LOOKED...
well, play this game called WolfQuest (it's free to download at the
WolfQuest website) and look at the 3D models of the wolves in that
game. Are they realistic? VERY! Would they make for believable faces,
express lots of emotion, and could we relate to them? I know I
wouldn't. A real wolf's face, up-close you can see emotion, but a
normal view it's hard to tell, that's why the animators make them look
the way they did.
<|_=00=_|>
Alpha and Omega (1:28, PG, 3-D)  other: talking animals, 3rd string,
original

I feel a little sad giving this movie a 3 (which matches up to the
adjective "bad" on my 9-point scale, just above "awful" and
"execrable"), because it's not as if it's really offensive, irritating,
ugly, loud, stupid, or any of the other things that normally nets a
rank in my bottom 1/3  the "avoid these" bunch. But it just isn't very
good, so my advice has to be to skip it, despite its kindly intentions.

It's an animated pic about 2 young wolves, Humphrey (Justin Long), the
omega (bottom of the pecking order), and Kate (Hayden Panettiere), the
alpha (leader of the pack, or at least in training for the position*).
It's part of the movie's simplistic conceit that there aren't any
wolves in the beta-thru-psi range. Furthermore, the social gulf between
alpha and omega is such that they may be friends but are never, never
allowed to, uh, howl together.

Yes, that is the awkward bowdlerization that the film uses to let the
adults know that these 2 hormone-filled teen-equivalent wild animals
may in fact be inclined to have carnal knowledge of each other, while
ostensibly protecting the sensibilities of the little kiddies in
attendance. In furtherance of this latter objective, we get an
embarrassing sequence in which the wolves actually do engage in a
pathetic imitation of howling, supposedly to satisfy their innate
longings for this shared intimacy.

As tension builds between the eastern and western hunting packs over
who gets to raid the caribou herds of Canada's Jasper National Park,
our heroes are shot with tranquilizer darts and trucked off to the
Sawtooth National Wilderness of Idaho, where they are expected to
repopulate the region. This too is discussed on screen with much
hemming, hawing, winking, and nudging. (Really, screenwriters Chris
Denk and Steve Moore, if you didn't want to talk about sex in front of
the urchins, you should have made the movie about something else. And,
directors Anthony Bell and Ben Gluck, depicting them sans genitalia is
no more convincing than those udders on the bulls in Disney's Home on
the Range.)

The problem is that Kate's, um, paw was promised in "marriage" (yes,
that's what they call it) to Garth (Chris Carmack), the effective
prince of the eastern pack, in a union which would supposedly unite the
2 clans in peace and harmony. But when Kate disappears, Garth's dad
Tony (Dennis Hopper, in his final role) accuses his opposite number,
Winston (Danny Glover), of trying to prevent the merger so he can keep
the meaty resources of Jasper for his own followers. Why exactly this
is contingent on the princess materializing at the appointed moment is
never explained; if you think it's hard for adults to figure this out,
imagine how bewildered the tots are going to be.

Anyway, Kate and Humphrey, upon being decanted in Idaho, immediately
launch into Homeward Bound mode, abetted by the comic-relief birds, a
balding Canada goose golfer with a French Canadian accent and his
caddy, who I think is supposed to be a British duck. Right about here
is where you get the impression that the characters were created by
throwing darts at a thesaurus.

The wolves spend a lot of time standing upright, engaging in the kind
of somersaults that would do credit to an Olympic gymnast, sledding
down hills inside hemi-logs, sampling blueberries, wearing flowers, and
occasionally advocating vegetarianism. Aside from that, totally
realistic.

I saw the movie in 3-D, and it was used effectively rather than
garishly. The depictions of the forest in the background were really
quite good. The animation itself, however, seemed cut- rate, over and
above having it done in Mumbai. For example, everyone concedes that fur
is an animator's biggest challenge, and this movie had lots of it.
Crest Animation decided to fake it by showing the fur in clumps which
never moved internally and only moved minimally with respect to each
other. Expressive features like eyes, mouths, and snouts were done
mediocrely. (I concede that I've been spoiled rotten by DreamWorks and
Pixar, and that Crest is still kilometres better than Hanna-Barbera.)

My best advice? If you want to see a really, really GOOD movie about
wolves, go out and rent Never Cry Wolf, but stay away from Alpha and
Omega.



*Since we're suspending disbelief here, we graciously concede, for the
sake of political correctness, the possibility of an alpha FEmale.
<|_=00=_|>
Alpha and Omega is a great film that is for all ages! It is about two
wolves from Canada, Kate and Humphrey who get separated from their pack
by the Fish and Game Dept. in Idaho. They get captured and relocated
there to repopulate in Sawtooth, Idaho. This is most likely a homage to
the Sawtooth Pack that was taken care of by Jim and Jamie Dutcher in
Living With Wolves and Wolves at Our Door (Which are both great movies
again for all ages).

Kate is against this since she and Humphrey must return to her park in
Canada to help re-unite the packs together since in their part of the
territory both theirs and a rival pack are vying for control over a
small prey base. This too is factual since prey base can rise and fall
due to geographic conditions and other factors that have nothing to do
with wolves whatsoever.

Through their adventure Kate and Humphrey meet trials and tribulations
and friends, such as a Canadian Goose and an English Duck who play
Golf. As a result they bond together and fall in love. And this isn't
uncommon in real-life. In the saga of the Sawtooth Pack, the Alpha male
actually fell in love with the Omega female during the course of the
two titles referenced above and became mates. 

They return to Canada just in time to prevent the war between the packs
and all live happily ever after. 

It is a great film that features a great voice cast and musical numbers
as well. Fun for all ages, it isn't a film to be missed. And there is
also a Nintendo DS game that ties in with the film in addition to
storybooks for kids and a delightful soundtrack as well.

Mike Wagner

Founder and Director of Heart of the Wolf Organization
<|_=00=_|>
Cartoon about 2 wolves, an alpha (Panettiere) and an omega (Long),who
get relocated to Idaho and there journey back home. Two wolves that are
unable to "be" together get captured and relocated to another park
halfway across the country. They set out for home with help from some
very funny friends. Being a kids movie not much really to review,
(except my kids really liked it). For the adults who watch this I
really found it to be a metaphor for a class based system of the haves
and have-nots. I may have read too much into it, but it makes a good
point of love conquering all, no matter who or what you are. Deep
enough? There were some really funny scenes in this but it is
definitely a kids movie. Adults won't be totally bored, but don't
expect "Shrek" type humor in this. I give it a B-, My kids give it an
A.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a great movie and i don't know why people think this is a bad
movie. They are showing the true love between Kate and Humphrey and
showing that even though Kate is an alpha she couldn't save herself
from the bear, it was Humphrey an omega who helped her.also, Humphrey
jumps in to save Kate when the stampede is going on. People are saying
that wolfs don't have blue or green eyes. let me tell u one thing more
than half of the movies are made up example harry potter, lord of the
rings. I loved it and i think they should make a part 2 for this. I
don't know how people can even say that this movie sucks i mean look at
this it shows the meaning of true love. So this is the reason i gave it
a 10 star rating. so i hope you people watch it and vote for it.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I love this movie, 2ND I can watch this movie over and
over again, 3RD I Laughed, I cried, and I cheered, and Last but not
least don't listen to the negative reviews about this movie, just give
it a chance, it depends on if you like it or not that's what matters, I
have some people in my family that don't care for this movie, but does
that mean that I don't like it? of course not I love this movie and
that is my opinion, so Just because there are negative reviews about
this movie does not mean that you won't like it. This reminded me of
Balto that is another reason why i saw this movie.

that is why this is my favorite movie of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw the trailer, I cant say I thought incredibly much of
it, the style seemed weird to me, and the butt humour shown in the
trailer didn't appeal to me much, but being a wolf lover, I decided to
part with my £6 and go and see it anyway. 

It was possibly one of my best decisions ever! I loved it! The style,
the thing initially putting me off wanting to see it, was one of the
things that grew on me the most. The movie has an incredible amount of
charm in it, from the carefully and beautifully modelled scenery of
jasper park, to the awe inspiring background music. The voices are
packed full of emotion and the movies style fits in incredibly well
with the whole feel to the movie.

The movie is funny, yet it quickly finds a soft spot in you with the
romance scenes. It has a very nice balance of serious and light
heartedness. It has humour in it for adults, that younger children
wouldn't understand as well, so in my opinion, it can be enjoyed by all
ages. The overall plot is pretty predictable, but that is the same with
most romantic comedy's and alpha and omega has many things between the
plot and its so beautifully done, you don't notice that much and it is
still easy to enjoy the film.

One thing I feel is very important to note about this movie is the
romantic scenes between Kate/Humphrey and Lily/Garth. In typical
animated films with anthropomorphic animals, they tend to steer away
from romance between the characters. In Alpha and Omega, they don't
steer away from it as much. The few romantic scenes within the movie
are breathtaking, moment, music, everything is so finely tuned for
those moments. It is completely fair to say that this film has better
romance scenes in it than any other animated movie.

Overall I give this film a 10/10, about and hour after watching this
movie I wanted to go in and see it again. Im 16 and enjoyed it a lot,
so I think its safe to say that it can be enjoyed by all ages, not just
kids.

I have one final thing to say though. If your going in expecting it to
be just like a Disney, pixar or dreamworks film, your going to be
disappointed. Instead, go in with an open mind, you'll enjoy it a lot
more. Alpha and Omega is not a Disney or dreamworks film, it is
something totally different and new, has a different type of charm to
it, but is equally enjoyable as anything Disney, pixar or dreamworks
has to offer!

I highly recommend this film!
