
The zombie horror genre is an over-saturated one; and it takes
something truly original to remind you why you loved them in the first
place. "Pontypool" is such a movie. If you think this is going to be a
straightforward zombie flick, it's time to think again.

The first half of the movie moves slowly but efficiently, as a radio
host and the two women in his team begin to realise that something is
most definitely wrong in their normally quiet little town. With the aid
of some wonderful cinematography and an intelligent script, the
audience is holed up inside the radio station as reports begin to
filter through of mysterious events which are growing ever more
threatening in nature.

The second half of the story, when the cause of the danger becomes
known and our protagonists are forced to protect themselves, will
either impress you (as it did me) or completely lose you. If you're
lucky enough to experience the former, you'll realise that this movie
has far more going for it than your standard 'mindless zombies run
around eating brains' movie. It's a cerebral horror movie, designed to
make you think as you watch.

The acting is solid throughout. Stephen McHattie (who had small parts
in "Watchmen" and "A History Of Violence" amongst others, and whose
voice and appearance reminds me of Lance Henriksen) is perfectly cast
in the central role, and is backed by great performances by Lisa Houle
and Georgina Reilly. As most of the early scenes of rising dread come
from their characters listening to others calling the radio show, their
reactions are essential to maintaining suspense and they do a fantastic
job.

If you're a fan of more intelligent horror fare (such as the earlier
work of David Cronenberg), you'd be advised to take a look here. It's a
movie that defies expectations and provides a refreshing injection into
a genre of movie that has become increasingly tired as of late.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at the Toronto film festival, and I must say it was
superb. It's a zombie flick that isn't a zombie flick--it really breaks
out of the genre. At times honestly hilarious and truly suspenseful at
others, it was one of my top three films I saw at the festival. The
IMDb synopsis doesn't do it justice. The main character loves to throw
out references to linguistics and literary critics, and the
"transmission" of the virus fits perfectly. Stephen McHattie did a
fantastic job, as did Lisa Houle and Georgina Reilly. Even though the
"we're stuck in a building surrounded by zombies" is a well-used setup,
Pontypool is so different from most zombie movies that it doesn't feel
hackneyed. Altogether, it's a totally fresh, exciting movie. If you can
get your hands on it, watch it!
<|_=00=_|>
I remember purchasing this book back in 2008 because it was a Canadian
zombie story that takes place in a little nowhere Ontario town called
Pontypool. The back of the book had me laughing and intrigued by the
description.

A virus. Flesh eating zombies. A body count in the millions has
decimated Ontario's population. What if you woke up and began your
morning by devoting the rest of your life to a murderous rampage, a
never-ending cannibalistic spree? And what if you were only one of
thousands who shared the same compulsion? This novel depicts just such
an epidemic. It's the compelling, terrifying story of a devastating
virus.

I will not tell you how you catch it so as not to include spoilers, but
once it has you, it leads you on a strange journeyinto another world
where the undead chase you down the streets of the smallest towns and
largest cities.

If you are expecting a night of the living dead style film... this is
not it. This movie does a fantastic job of drawing you into the world
of the characters, their relationships and everything falling apart
around them; you are not an outside observer. You are for all intensive
purposes just another Pontypool citizen wondering
"Wiskey-Tango-Foxtrot".

This movie is a great treat for four reasons 1) The focus on the actors
as the actors were perfectly cast. You may recognize an actress from
the recent release of Dark Room 2) The choice to follow the "Aliens"
model of never placing the source of "fear and unease" front stage. By
not letting you in on the whole thing and only providing glimpses, your
imagination will take the scenes further than any expensive CGI ever
could. 3) The writing and angle of the movie. You feel like you are
part of the movie as you only know what the main actors know... nothing
more! 4)The intro and the voice of the main actor really pull you in
like a warm sedative as you spiral downward into the insanity of your
own imagination.

Enjoy... we did!
<|_=00=_|>
As with many film genres, the psychological horror film becomes
increasingly in danger of being driven into the proverbial ground under
a staggering mountain of cliché and repetition, with frustratingly few
alternatives to the same old spin on the same old story. However, with
Pontypool, Canadian independent director Bruce McDonald manages to not
only breathe fresh life into an increasingly withering genre, but
concoct a sliver of something altogether unexpected and new in the
process. Adapted from screenwriter Tony Burgess' own novel about a
small Ontario town overrun by zombies infected by a virus spread
through the English language, McDonald's impressively lo-fi sheen
proves the perfect fit for a zombie horror film brave enough to engage
in notions of semiotics (dismantling the English language and forms of
verbal communication) and philosophical reflections on interpersonal
communication and survival situation ethics, while somehow managing to
remain darkly comedic in the process. Yet, inherent complexities and
offbeat humour aside, Pontypool remains a gruesomely effective and taut
piece of psychological horror, beautifully paced and peppered with
chillingly detached bursts of visceral violence and gore, making it
almost essential viewing for any horror film fans. 

Taking notes from abiding genre classics such as Alien, McDonald keeps
the viewer daringly in the dark throughout the film, offering only
tantalizing snippets of information from outside news broadcasts to
contextualize the viral outbreak and horror unfolding outside the
secluded setting. This focalization alongside the protagonists serves
not only to draw the viewer in further in terms of alignment with the
characters, but perpetuates a noxious, continual sense of
claustrophobia, amplifying the creeping terror to almost unbearable
levels. Far from balking at the challenge of keeping a single enclosed
setting interesting, McDonald practically drinks in every last inch,
managing to make the radio studio appear alternatingly oppressively
tight and eerily vast - a masterful exploration of subjective relations
to space. Similarly, Claude Foisy's eerie dirge of a spectral musical
score perfectly compliments the film's crushingly atmospheric veneer.

And yet McDonald refuses to let genre conventions stifle an impish
sense of fun, as the film's grisly realism is counterbalanced by
unexpected moments of irrelevant silliness (a man dressed up as Osama
Bin Laden appears on Mazzy's radio show with no explanation given),
tastefully melding the zombie horror and black comedy genres to create
a remarkably unprecedented result. And while the film may not be a
flawless entry into the genre (Burgess's script offers the occasionally
wooden patches of dialogue, and the daringly ambiguous ending may not
be for all tastes), such a unique spin on age old narrative tropes
deserves recognition and plaudits from all capable of stomach the
material, both in terms of jarring violence and troublesomely complex
thematic and philosophical overtones. 

Being such a human drama centered piece, without the right cast, the
low budget and static location of McDonald's film may have started to
fragment, but thankfully the collection of primarily new actors prove
more than up for the job. Perpetually underrated character actor
Stephen McHattie shines in a rare lead role, giving a remarkably
balanced performance as sardonic radio broadcaster Grant Mazzy.
Showcasing both a deliciously dry comedic deadpan and potential for
raw, dramatic charisma, McHattie deftly carries both the light and dark
aspects of the film with ease. Lisa Houle gives an impressively
measured performance as Mazzy's harried co-worker, managing to defy
'damsel in distress' stereotypes by being a fully capable and
independent individual, yet with an appealing vulnerability equally
driving home the credibility of her character. Georgina Reilly is a
powerfully commanding presence in a far too brief role, similarly
essaying a fully convincing human being forced to succumb to petrifying
circumstances. And Hrant Alianak is a delightfully bizarre presence as
a quirky doctor who may or may not possess crucial information
regarding the viral outbreak. 

Easily worth seeing for its unconventional blending of the
intellectually complex, chillingly horrifying and bleakly humorous,
Pontypool achieves a cinematic gut punch, delivering a reaction unlike
most contemporaries and certainly proving far more memorable. While
certainly not an appropriate initiation for those unfamiliar with
zombie horror, the film's unique hybridity and visceral emotional
effect is sure to both sate and fascinate fans of the genre, making
Pontypool near indispensable viewing. 

-8/10
<|_=00=_|>
My husband and I watched this last night. Excellent movie. Well done
and I imagine the costs of filming were not that great and this should
smack some other movie makers as the thing to do. Scary. Suspenseful.
Thought provoking. We really enjoyed it and it was not predictable. Be
sure to watch past the credits. As usual, another independent film
outweighs the crap put out in the mainstream. And, maybe there is also
a lesson that good acting can be more important than expensive sets,
props and special effects. And, amazingly, no shameless plugs for
advertising. No hidden political agendas. There was no needless action
or violence. There was no need for gratuitous and pointless sex scenes
to keep audience interest.
<|_=00=_|>
Pontypool was an amazing film for a number of reasons.The story pays a
respectful homage to horror greats like Night of the Living Dead and 28
Days later without ever becoming cliché. The approach to the mass
"infection" was something that I never saw coming. The acting was
excellent and I got the genuine impression I was listening to talk/news
radio. The authenticity of the radio broadcast and culminating events
were enough to actually draw me into the anxiety that the characters
felt,which says a lot considering the 2-dimensional feel of the
majority of movies I have seen as of late. I highly recommend this
movie to any real sci-fi/horror fan that is fed up with the standard
fair.Also, watch the final frames after the credits! Great job. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Pontypool is one of the few horror movie that used a little creativity
and proves you don't need a high budget to a make horror film. The
story circles around a local radio station and its crew of three
people. As the day moves on they slowly start to here reports of
violence happening all over the region. This includes riots, people
killing each other and intervention from the Canadian Government. Soon
they find themselves hiding in the station from the horror out side
they are reporting. If that was not bad enough, they can't figure
what's going on. Pontypool takes a very different and more effective
way at trying to scare its audience. Most western horror these days
seem to mainly focus on jump scares or brutal kill scenes alone.
Pontypool on the other hand gives a few vague descriptions on what's
actually going on out there. For most of the movie you really are just
listening to a broadcast and testimonies of eye witness. This leaves
the viewer having his own imagination working against him for a big
chunk of the film. For me this was the most strongest for the first
half of the film when we don't know what's causing the hysteria. I
actually only have one real complaint which I felt the ending could
have been better. I didn't hate the ending it just feels kind of weak
compared to what we see earlier. I would go into more detail but that
would results in some spoilers.

Overall it's a fun creepy horror movie that could be enjoyable for
Halloween. I give it a few extra points for what they were able to pull
off on a low budget and for an interesting experiment in horror.

Thats why I give this radio broadcast from hell an 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed this and was completely taken by surprise. My DVD
box has a quote across the top, 'The Best Zombie Film Of The Year' and
this is probably both correct and most misleading. As others have
mentioned it is best to go into this not expecting rampaging and
bloodthirsty zombies, but to allow the very unusual and original film
work it's magic. Stephen McHattie is outstanding in the central role
and most convincing as he (and we!) struggle too interpret information
received. This is far removed from being a 'sit back and wallow' movie
and I certainly found myself on the edge of my seat thrilled, perturbed
and anxious to work out just what was going on. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie not too long after it was released. As a fan of the
zombie/apocalypse/scary disease genre, I was looking forward to this
movie but had pretty low expectations. Afterall, for every great movie
we often have to sit through a dozen bad films. Pontypool did not
disappoint and greatly exceeded my expectations. 

To begin, if you watch horror films solely for the blood and guts, then
this isn't a movie for you. This movie doesn't follow the typical
format of a band of survivors battling their way through hoards of
zombies. In fact, you might not even call the infected in this film
zombies. Most of the movie takes place in the same location but the
concept is innovative and the suspense is brilliant. Basically, the
disease in this film isn't some random virus or parasite. The disease
is language. The way this is done is really creepy and if you watch it,
you'll see what I mean.

As I said, if you want violence and blood and guts, then you might not
appreciate this movie. But if you're looking for a psychologically
terrifying experience then check out Pontypool. And if you work for
Comcast, please put this movie on OnDemand!
<|_=00=_|>
I really, really, hate to give anything away but many people seem to be
missing the obvious... that words hold power, they are infectious and
can lead to unintended consequences. Stephen McHattie steals the show
as the cowboy hat wearing radio talk show host Grant Mazzy. Mazzy was
recently fired from his real gig and is now the morning show in the
small town of Pontypool. Between reports of school closings and traffic
reports, Mazzy tries to provoke (wake up) his audience with charged
language but Mazzy is about to learn that words have consequences.
First he offends his producer and a casual joke turns out not to be
funny when it hits too close to home. Then reports of mob violence
start flooding the station. As the bloodshed escalates and threatens
Mazzy and his morning crew they slowly learn the true nature of the
threat and the power of their own words. Pontypool holds relevant
lessons for us all. There is some blood and mild gore but the really
scary part is how many Pontypool type zombies are already among us.
