
I'll be honest, I was dragged to this movie by a girl friend. I was
tired of the rom com genre. I had seen it all before. Ill say this,
this movie strips away all those clichés and goes in the opposite
direction. What a lovely and funny R rated comedy with a lot of heart.
There are so many charming moments that I cannot even explain them all.
Rebel Wilson does her usual thing but here she perfects it and brings a
certain edge to her performance. Its my favorite performance of hers.
Dakota Johnson gives the best performance of her young career and
Leslie Mann owns her roll. Its her funniest, saddest, and truest
performance to date. Yes Im still talking about a raunchy comedy here.
There is more to this movie than you might think. The men in the film
are actually better written that most clichéd men in romantic comedies.
Finally, the ending is just perfect for those single people out there.I
advise seeing this with a friend and not with a significant other. ****
out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
A mixed cast out of established actors and "Newcomers" aka. "Isn't that
the guy from (insert show-name here)" loosens up the mood and gives the
general idea that the movie doesn't take itself too serious. Creative
details like glowing numbers on bottles and texts in the air also
contribute to this.

Furthermore, multiple laugh out loud-moments. Which is always a
plus!Rebel Wilson is hilarious. Everybody has to agree at least on
that.

Surprisingly not the most stereotypical cheesy wannabe perfect life-
ending. A deeper meaning in said ending compliments the movie as a
whole, without coming over as forced.

Of course movies like that always sort of have this fakeness about
them. I mean, everybody knows that you could never be able to afford
this huge apartment in NYC nor experience a love story like that. But
you don't watch these films to get realistic life-reviews. You want to
simply look at pretty people partying, doubting existence and having
sex. In a not weird way of course. "How to be single" will provide you
with all three, without making you gag over the silly tackiness.
<|_=00=_|>
It's risky to title a movie like a self-help book, because the audience
may actually expect to learn something by watching the story unfold.
The bad news is, if you're seriously looking for a guide on how to be a
single lady, you'd gain more by listening to Beyonce. 

'How to be Single' centres around Alice, played by Dakota Johnson
('Fifty Shades of Grey'), and her transition into post-breakup life in
New York City. Once she arrives at her new job she becomes fast friends
with Rebel Wilson ('Pitch Perfect'), a guru on the single way of life.
This involves a lot of partying, drinking, and waking up in random
people's bedrooms, all to a soundtrack of Izzy Azalea and Taylor Swift.
You get the picture. 

Romcom staple Leslie Mann plays Alice's older and supposedly wiser
sister. This character goes from hating children to booking herself a
sperm-donor online, in the space of about a week. Another subplot,
which has very little to do with the main story, involves Alison Brie
('Community') who is also looking for love in the Big Apple. Instead of
the partying/one-night-stand formula, she devises an online dating
algorithm to find the perfect man, with some pretty bad results.

The central message of the plot is confusing, and changes throughout
the film. The protagonists develop relationships with around fifteen
men between them, which becomes quite hard to keep track of, and also
leaves us wondering whether any of the women are ever truly single for
more than a day at a time. 

The trailer for this movie does a good job of making it look like a
decent enough comedy. Rebel Wilson has to be given credit for some of
her one-liners and stunts, but the big problem is that the few jokes
from the advert are by far the best in the whole script. The rest of
the time, there's a truckload of weak, over sexualised jokes that just
don't serve their purpose. In other words, if the trailer doesn't make
you laugh, the full 2 hour feature may just make you cry. If you do end
up seeing this, a good way to make yourself laugh is to imagine you're
watching one of those 'bad lip reading' videos. The dialogue in many of
the scenes is quite literally on that same level of obscurity.

At this time of year, cinemas are chock-full of Oscar nominated films
that work hard to deliver you quality entertainment. Amongst them, this
sticks out like a sore thumb. I did my best to enjoy this movie,
because it does try to be funny. But like your uncle who tries to stay
hip and relevant by using Facebook, the results are cringeworthy and
frankly, a little bit creepy.
<|_=00=_|>
My God, what a terrible movie. I know that I shouldn't have high
standards when it comes to rom-coms, and trust me mine are super low,
but this one hits rock bottom. It is so condescending and sexist that I
had a real hard time watching it to the end (I've watched it with a
couple of friends so that made me stay). I can actually enjoy trashy
films that are so terrible that they are awesome, but this one actually
tries to make a point and it fails miserably. The writing is terrible,
the acting is terrible, even New York can't help it (and that says a
lot). If you are looking for a rom-com, do yourself a favor and skip
this one. And then send me a "Thank you" note for those 90 minutes of
your life that would gone to waste (plus millions of brain cells you
would lose in the process).
<|_=00=_|>
I am finding that the more movies I watch with Dakota Johnson just
leads to disappointment. Is it just me or is there no emotion in her
face when she acts. 

The movie trailer gets the audience pumped up for a romantic comedy.
Super pumped and thought this is going to be hilarious. There were
funny parts, but it left me disappointed and frustrated in the end. 

For example the love Tom has for Lucy. If a guy truly felt like he
did(cant get her off his mind). It wouldn't take him 3 months to try
and talk to her). Lucy felt something as well for Tom, even for a
moment when they kissed. Now a girl that is obsessed with finding a guy
wouldn't have just dropped it. It would be running in her head
repeatedly, whether creating something that wasn't there or convincing
herself it was nothing. 

Something positive about this movie is it did show all different
aspects of relationships and how people feel. as well as majority of
women jump to soon and forget their wants/needs just to please a man.(
hence the saying you have changed). Men do it too we pretend to be
someone we are not to please someone else.
<|_=00=_|>
Many unattached adults find being alone difficult  especially on
Valentine's Day, so I guess it makes sense that there would be a movie
called "How to Be Single" (R, 1:50) in theaters starting the second
weekend in February. What doesn't make as much sense is using such a
title for a movie that is more likely to make many singles feel even
worse about not being in a romantic relationship on said holiday.

Dakota Johnson, Alison Brie, Rebel Wilson and Leslie Mann play four
women navigating singlehood in New York City. In spite of what the
movie poster implies, they are not a group of party-animal gal-pals who
are all on this journey together, but there are connections here. Mann
plays Meg, an obstetrician who doesn't need a man or a baby to feel
fulfilled (thank you very much). Meg is the older sister of recent
college graduate Alice (Johnson) who becomes best friends with new
co-worker, confirmed bachelorette and hearty partier Robin (Wilson).
Lucy (Brie) is a control freak with high standards who plugs data from
dating websites into algorithms and spreadsheets in the hopes of
finding the perfect man. Through Alice, Meg and Robin kind of become
friends-in-law, while Alice and Lucy both end up involved with the same
guy at different points, but that's the extent of these characters
crossing paths.

These four women all view being single differently and learn different
lessons along the way. Alice breaks up with college boyfriend Josh
(Nicholas Braun) because she feels she needs to experience being single
for a while. When she is hired by the same law firm where Robin works,
Robin takes Alice to a bar and tries to school her in how to be single.
Alice hooks up with handsome bartender Tom (Anders Holm), which
actually makes her miss her relationship with Josh, even as she keeps
bumping into real estate developer David (Damon Wayans Jr.). As
independent as she is, Meg starts thinking that she might want a baby,
but not necessarily a man, although sweet younger man Ken (Jake Lacy)
seems interested in changing her mind about that last part. Meanwhile,
Alice becomes friends with Tom (since she lives above his bar and has
most of her first dates in that bar). Her data analysis leads her to
the handsome Paul (Colin Jost), but she also attracts the attention of
funny bookstore owner George (Jason Mantzoukas). Robin doesn't want to
meet Mr. Right, but just to drink, dance and be with Mr. Right Now.

Part of the problem with "How to Be Single" is those characterizations.
Instead of following these women as a group, screenwriters Abby Kohn,
Mark Silverstein and Dana Fox (adapting Liz Tuccillo's 2008 novel of
the same name) jump back and forth between loosely connected stories.
This muddles the movie's message and makes the plot a little hard to
follow. The script manages a few laughs (mostly crude sex and toilet
humor) sprinkled throughout the movie and almost overshadowed by the
large number of un-funny and uncomfortably awkward moments. In spite of
director Christian Ditter's attempts at character development, the
characters still feel shallow. Then, the resolutions of some of these
stories send mixed messages which seem more likely to upset than
comfort unhappy singles.

But before I render my verdict, here are a few fun facts: (1) This
movie is based on Tucillo's first novel, but her earlier 2004 book,
"He's Just Not That Into You" (co-written with Greg Behrendt) won a
Quill Award, was a New York Times best seller was featured on The Oprah
Winfrey Show and was adapted into a film of the same name in 2009, a
movie with a better cast, better script and better director than this
one and with moderately more entertainment value. (2) Johnson's
character gets involved with the character played by Wayans', whose
uncle, Marlon Wayans, co-wrote and starred in 2016's "Fifty Shades of
Black", which was a parody of Johnson's 2015 blockbuster "Fifty Shades
of Grey". (3) In the theater where I watched "How to Be Single" (on
Valentine's Day), I saw no one sitting alone. The audience was mainly
groups of women (which seemed to enjoy the movie a little more than I
did) and couples (which vocalized somewhat less approval). (4) This
film's original title was "How NOT To Be Single". Okay, that last one
isn't a fact, but it does fit this rarely funny and forgettable movie,
with its mish-mash of confused, self-centered characters and convoluted
messages. "C-"
<|_=00=_|>
This movie had loads of talent to tap into and the writers flopped big
time. The director had about zero vision during the whole run time. I'm
surprised the producers still have jobs. Heck, I'm surprised anyone has
a job after this movie. If a normal commonplace job had this much of a
screw up at a $38 Million dollar budget, they would be sued and living
on a street corner.

I will say, I'm a man, and this is clearly not for men. It's for women
strictly, even the previews were geared towards women. So, that being
said, I was brought along with my fiancé to watch this dreadful film.

Normally, I can limp along and see the silver lining or notice the
jokes as they are meant to be portrayed. However, they couldn't even
nail a single joke with me or with any of the other 7 people in the
theater. I saw one guy get up and leave, I told my fiancé he had the
right idea.

As the title says, I haven't seen worse, this is by far the worst movie
on record for me. Please, do yourself a favor, take the overpriced
movie ticket money, walk outside and literally give it to ANYONE. It
will find a better use of its own purpose AND yours.
<|_=00=_|>
It's got no plot. It's got no point. It has absolutely no clue how to
be funny.

Nothing in this mule has a reason to exist.

There isn't a single cliché they used that made any sort of sense. The
plot is just confusing and pathetic. Did anyone who reviewed this
actually NOT be paid to write a good review.

Most of the scenario is in Manhattan so of course, it's unrealistic
with massively large apartments and set in the Meatpacking district.
Utterly and totally stupid. 

Nothing in this movie made sense. Not by any sense of the word. Anyone
who says they like it is obviously from Kansas and has no clue what
relationships are like. 

This is for the Sex and the City crowd. 

Stay away. Stay far away from this dog.

Er, sorry, POS.
<|_=00=_|>
Good movie + Rebel Wilson = bad movie

I would have enjoyed this film a lot, if Rebel wouldn't have been it.
Her character was so annoying that my family and I almost stopped
watching the movie. She has the most annoying roles in movies and they
still keep casting her. The roles she plays are really one-sided, the
recipe is simple: one joke characters, who know how to party and are
allowed to say and do anything.

The story line is not too complex, however, for a one-watch-only movie
it is not that bad. There were some good puns and I was kind of
interested in the ending.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a better than average romantic comedy. I gave this one an extra
star, because, although it largely followed the rom-com formula,
meaning happy endings for most of the characters, it wasn't obvious who
was going to end up with who, or otherwise. Rare is the film in this
genre that does not telegraph its exact ending at least forty minutes
away. Rebel Wilson played to type and was quite amusing. Alison Brie
was lovely, and played her neurotic role very well. Dakota Johnson was
absolutely adorable. I hope to see more of her in the future. Kudos to
Leslie Mann, as well. The New York sets and photography were
impressive, and there were no obtrusive directing techniques.
