
First off, don't read other reviews about this, it will ruin the
unexpected plot and you will probably go in with a negative view.
Somebody else said that this isn't a cinematic masterpiece and that's
pretty much what i agree with, but it wasn't meant to be, it had some
refreshing dialogue that wasn't so much punchlines, but funny
conversations,the whole movie itself was just funny in general, the
plot was ridiculous but at the same time it was really funny because it
was just a big joke. The same people who rate this movie down are the
same people who go rate down Schwarzenegger films because they have a
silly plot, it's not about the plot, it's about hardcore action and
silly punchlines, just like this movie is about funny conversations and
a fun plot.
<|_=00=_|>
I see a lot of people bashing this film for some reason. Sure it's not
some cinematic masterpiece; when I went to see it I wasn't expecting
that. "The Watch" is a funny buddy comedy, filled with crude jokes and
the silly shenanigans that you'd expect from Stiller, Vaughn, the rest
of the cast, and writer Seth Rogen. Like a delicious onion the film
does a good job peeling away at the story. Yes, it is not hard see the
plot coming, but it's how the characters deal with the situations they
encounter, that makes the film entertaining. Crybaby critics with their
stuck up trendy smugness, "See, told you the plot was predictable.."
Wow, way to over dramatize the obvious, you're so clever. I bet that
"Titanic" ending took you by surprise? For all those critics who whine
and cry about "The Watch" maybe they should just stay home and watch
one of their Disney classics on VHS. This is a great film to see,
escape the chaotic world and have a few laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
For me, this movie is a clear sign that some film-makers still care
about making a good comedy. The movie is not just simple, cheap,
predictable laughs, it actually is being one that relies on its story
development and character buildup.

No, I'm not saying that this is a very clever or brilliantly written
and made movie but I definitely prefer the approach of this movie above
that of the average and more standard modern comedy. This is being a
somewhat more subtle movie with all of its comedy and how it got
incorporated into the movie.

Thing that made this movie especially great and fun to watch for me
were its characters. The movie truly is mostly about its characters and
their interactions with each other. All of the actors play quite well
off each other and manage to give their characters some distinctive and
enjoyable personalities. Really, without the movie its characters and
actors portraying them, this would had most likely been a terribly weak
movie.

It's true that most of the actors are playing the same type of
characters they often play. Ben Stiller again plays a normal guy, who
gets caught up in a crazy situation and Vince Vaughn basically is being
a big man-child again. But somehow it all works out quite well and
entertaining for the movie and I even dare to say that some of the
biggest Stiller and/or Vaughn haters still could get some enjoyment out
of this movie and not feel annoyed by their performances and
characters. 

It's hard not to really spoil this movie but it's about something way
more than just about a neighborhood watch, with a bunch of misfits in
it. There are some interesting and unexpected developments in this
movie, at least when you haven't heard about them already. I won't say
anything about it, since I feel that it's more fun to just go into this
movie, without knowing what is going to happen in it. So I advice you
to also stay away from any trailers and just let this movie surprise
you.

I simply had a good time watching this movie!

7/10 

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
I have never claimed to be a screenwriter (nor would I even try to be),
but it seems to me that if "The Watch" had just been about a group of
goofy, inept, over-the-top neighborhood watchmen, then it could have
been a much tighter, coherent and interesting endeavor. 

Under the eye of director Akiva Schaffer ("Hot Rod") and penmanship of
writers Jared Stern, Evan Goldberg and Seth Rogen, however, the film is
badly-managed and all over the map  thematically speaking. I use
"writing" loosely, though, since much of the dialogue was ad-libbed by
leads Ben Stiller and Vince Vaughn, and the undisciplined approach
certainly shows with these vulgar and stilted performances.

Adding murder, mutilation, orgies and an ill-conceived alien invasion
just shows the desperation (and bloated budget) the cast and crew were
forced to work with. Never has the phrase "less is more" been so sorely
needed in a so-called comedic production.

Thus, the first pairing of Stiller and Vaughn since 2005′s "Dodgeball:
A True Underdog Story" is sadly wasted as the laughs come few and far
between. And, when they do, they are usually overshadowed by following
sequences of slaughter, mayhem and utter confusion that leaves both
casual film patron and experienced movie critic scratching their
collective heads in complete bewilderment.

The ludicrous plot has longtime Costco manager Evan (Stiller) grieving
over the killing of a Mexican security guard in a most offensive and
stereotypical scene. Starting a comedy with a vicious, bloody murder is
hardly the best way to go, but that is just the beginning of this
film's problems.

Appearing in front of a high school football audience (in one of the
few really funny sequences), Evan makes an appeal for neighborhood
watch recruits, but can only attract three weirdos  Bob (Vaughn),
Franklin (Jonah Hill, fresh from "21 Jump Street" and an Oscar-
nominated performance in "Moneyball") and Jamarcus (Richard Ayoade) 
who use the situation to get away from their wives and family members
and look to get drunk and party.

The quartet is a joke (a really UNfunny joke, however), being ridiculed
by smart-mouthed teens, random citizens and local law enforcement. When
more murders take place, though, as well as the discovery of a
forthcoming alien invasion, the group begins to suspect most everyone
in the small Ohio town is involved (because, evidently, the invaders
can also assume human form, any further plot explanation is really
unnecessary at this point).

Along the way there are also several pointless subplots in "The Watch,"
one including Bob's slutty daughter, Chelsea (Erin Moriarty) and her
sexcapades, as well as Evan's low sperm count; neither of which is even
remotely interesting or humorous. 

Lame supporting characters include Will Forte ("MacGruber") as the
disbelieving town cop, and Rosemarie DeWitt ("Your Sister's Sister"),
as Evan's non-descript wife. Then, the final conflict takes place at
the Costco store and, like the rest of the enterprise is boring,
confusing and nowhere near as comedic as it needed to be.

And so "The Watch," the much-anticipated Stiller-Vaughn reunion (well,
anticipated by SOME people, I suppose), falls flat on its face. The
painfully humorless and obscene story, that meanders around like a
rudderless alien spacecraft, makes this comedy one of the most
disappointing and depressing adventures of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
The nerve! I can't believe it look better on the page. Ben Stiller
should know better by now. Or it's just a question of money. Not a
moment of real comedy, not one. Vince Vaughn totally out of control in
a non-character part. Oscar nominee Jonah Hill, lost. I felt hopeful
when Billy Crudup makes his appearance, but the hope was very short
lived. Random, inexplicable touches, that include explosions as a form
of production value,I presume, but how embarrassing. The script is
cheap and opportunistic but also misses its target, completely. Aliens
in suburbia could have been a great idea. They needed writers and a
director to execute it with some degree of oomph. Awful and depressing.
<|_=00=_|>
I got about 20 minutes into this... this dreadful, tiresome, mind
numbing, "comedy" and that was all I could take. I tried to find humour
in Ben Stiller's performance but I'm sorry, I'm not 10 years old and
don't do dope or take drugs of any kind. I just don't find Ben Stiller
funny in any of his films though I bet there are any number of people
behind the camera laughing at his every wide eyed attempt at ironic
humour, his manager, his agent, his psychiatrist etc. Frankly, I don't
think even he gets it. His idea of comedy died with the Three Stooges.
Only Phil Silvers can carry off being Phil Silvers (even Steve Martin
must be aware of that by now) know what I mean. Be original! The first
rule of comedy is IT HAS TO BE FUNNY! It wasn't. I'd like to see
Stiller in a dramatic gritty role for a change. I bet he'd make a great
action actor with say Bruce Willis; he'd nail it. I have yet to see a
subtle comic performance from him. Those eyes and expressions of his
have been done to death. The only one who made me remotely smile was
Richard Ayoade a man who through his hit UK sitcom The IT Crowd, which
made the absurd brilliantly hysterical, has a genuine feel for absurd
throw away dialogue. Jonah Hill can be very very funny and anarchic but
in this he was miscast, sorry Jonah. Vince Vaughn
"If-I-shout-loud-enough-it'll-be-funny" brand of comedy just annoyed
me. It was insulting. They were all doing their own bit but none of
them seemed to be relating to the others. Yes if that was the point, it
didn't work. Anyone one of their characters in reality would have
walked away from the others. Comedy comes out of real situations. None
of that had any sense of reality about it. It was like a low budget
remake of The Burbs (kind of) but without the class and black humour.
My advice is don't watch it. Go and paint your car or knit yourself a
suit of armour or something. You'd be better employed.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is just about unwatchable. Filled with high-school
humor,long boring conversations and horrible acting with aliens in the
mix.The only people who can find this funny are stoned high teenagers
and kids that just learned a new word, DICK.

This is one of those direct to DVD mistakes. 

Let's face it, Ben is just not happening this days and poor Vince (a
man with some talent)will be in the same boat if he keeps appearing in
venues such﻿ as this.

Sitting in a theater with all of 12 people was a PAINFUL experience at
best. The only bright spot in this trash pile was the sixty seconds
that Lee Ermey was on screen.

My roommate asked me about the movie and i told him "Don't waste your
TIME and hard-earned money!".
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a collection of actors seemingly in need of a paycheck;
it is slow, largely unfunny and boring. There were few genuine laughs
and I found myself straining to laugh at scenes that really weren't
worth the effort. Ben Stiller plays the same character he has played a
dozen times and I am struggling to remember a single funny line he
issued. Vince Vaughn had a few funny moments, but again, he played the
same character we've seen in all of his prior movies. And, Will Forte,
he only has one character. At least he was irritating. Costco was
funnier than any of these has-beens and never-weres. The plot was
contrived and struggled to stay together throughout. I would have
walked out but for Jonah Hill, who was genuinely funny and needs to
stop carrying other people's movie's. Even with his moments of
brilliance, I could not wait for the movie to be over. This will be the
last Ben Stiller movie I will ever see.
<|_=00=_|>
Like most comedies starring Vince Vaughn, Ben Stiller and/or any of the
Frat Pack, people are going to complain that this was gross, unfunny,
ridiculous, etc. 

But they clearly expect too much from these guys. If you go into this
movie thinking that you'll fall on the floor laughing then yes, you
will disappointed. But I expected nothing and I laughed my butt off.
It's a silly movie with a silly plot and it knows this. 

If you don't like Vince Vaughn or Ben Stiller, then don't see it. It's
that simple. If you do like them, give it a try. I'll definitely watch
it again because it was entertaining in the most over the top way.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a supermarket manager, who forms a
neighbourhood watch after his employee was brutally killed in his
supermarket.

"The Watch" is a light-hearted and fun rendition of a few unlikely
heroes who save the world from alien invasion. The whole plot s so far
fetched and ridiculous, that it means "The Watch" cannot be taken
seriously. There is a metal ball capable of mass destruction, there is
a super hunk that turns out to be more than he is, and the weak spot of
the aliens is located in a particular area of the body. The dialog is
juvenile and silly, but "The Watch" is all about brainless
entertainment. If you treat it like a joke, you will have a lot of
laughs.
