
Alex, Marty, Gloria, and Melman and the rest of their gang return in
the third installment of the "Madagascar" series, and yes they are
still trying to get back home to New York City. This film has them
traveling with a group of circus animals all throughout Europe on the
run from a French animal hunter who has killed every animal and has
mounted their head on her wall, except for a lion.

This movie stars the voice talents of Ben Stiller (Tower Heist, Tropic
Thunder), Chris Rock (Grown ups, The Longest Yard), David Schwimmer
(Friends, John Carter), Jada Pinkett Smith (Ali, Collateral), Sasha
Baron Cohen (Borat, Bruno), Cedric the Entertainer (Larry Crowne, Ice
Age), and Bryan Cranston (Drive, Breaking Bad). Everyone did a great
job with their characters and it was a blast to hear all these familiar
voices in a film together again.

I have been a fan of the previous "Madagascar" films, and that still is
the case, but I really didn't have any hype for this movie because from
the trailers, it didn't really look that good. I am glad to say that it
is the complete opposite of that. Surprisingly, I really enjoyed film
from start to finish and thought that for certain audiences, the film
is perfect. If you are a younger person (12 and under) the movie will
entertain and make you laugh the entire time. Now for the other
demographic (13 and up), the film is still a really fun experience
having jokes that adults would get, as well as some really funny
situations.

The "Madagascar" series has been known to be over the top, but
"Madagascar 3â€³ takes the cake for being the most over the top one yet.
You can not simply go into this movie expecting a toned down film
featuring animals that can talk and doing anything that humans can. You
have to go into this film with an open mind and just enjoy the ride. I
found myself laughing constantly throughout the film and I couldn't
help but have a smile on my face the entire time. This movie made me
feel like I was a kid again and that is one of the best feelings there
is.

This is easily the best movie in the series in my opinion. What really
blew me away though was something that wasn't crucial to the movie, and
that was the 3D. This is probably some of the best 3D I have seen in a
film. I was sitting on the edge of my seat waiting to see what was
going to pop out next. If you see this film, please do yourself a favor
and see the 3D version of it, you will not be disappointed. I highly
recommend this film to all ages. Whether you are a kid or an adult, you
will find enjoyment in this film.

Rating 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
There are eager animated film franchises that rehashed the same old
themes and gags in all its installments, and deservedly crashed under
its own repetitiveness. Think Shrek, which started brightly, but with
each sequel the grumpy ogre and his friends started to become cheap
parodies of themselves. There are other film franchises that grow from
strength to strength though, such as Ice Age where we get to go on an
incredibly long journey with its characters trying to survive the
inevitable change and extinction, and then there's Madagascar, with
Europe's Most Wanted surprisingly having a lot more to offer than what
it had suggested.

We go back to where we last left off, rejoining Alex the Lion (Ben
Stiller), Marty the Zebra (Chris Rock), Melman the Giraffe (David
Schwimmer) and Gloria the Hippo (Jada Pinkett Smith) who are still in
Africa, but getting homesick and yearn for their lives back in New
York. So they hatch a plan to regroup with the Penguins, who had left
with the Monkeys in their flying machine to Monte Carlo and its glitzy
casinos, and compel them to take everyone back to New York. Granted
it's a slow start, but when it picked up with Frances McDormand voicing
the French policewoman Captain Chantel DuBois, more of an animal hunter
in disguise and hell bent on adding a lion to her trophy wall, it
really went over the top with a multitude of action sequences that get
set to show off dedicated and meticulously crafted moments for 3D. It's
clearly one of the better 3D efforts in an animated feature film that
took pains to ensure the medium got milked for the premium ticket you
paid for.

Then the narrative goes up a notch with the introduction of some circus
animals with whom our protagonists get to mix with in order to
momentarily escape the fanatical clutches of DuBois, and in comes the
opportunity to expand on its cast, with the likes of Jessica Chastain,
Bryan Cranston and Martin Short entering the fray as a cheetah, tiger
and sea lion respectively, each with its own distinct quirk, objective
and baggage. It's a zoo animal meets circus animal rivalry formed, and
Alex and gang wanting to stick around, with thanks to the Penguins,
because the circus is en route to Rome and London, where an American
circus event promoter would be in town to evaluate if the troupe can
make money if brought across the Atlantic, and naturally, New York.

I'm rather surprised by the depth of the narrative here, as Eric Damell
and Noah Baumbach's screenplay managed to squeeze a lot in under 90
minutes sans end credits roll. Characters don't get thrown in for fun,
but have enough screen time to perform without getting the feeling of
being redundant to the whole scheme of things, and how they all blend
well together for the major set action pieces, complete with comedy
ranging from witty repartee to physical slapstick gags. The major new
entrants to this installment will also become crowd favourites, such as
the girly cheetah Gia, the curt Russian tiger Vitaly who has to reclaim
his theatrical mojo, and Stefano the sea lion trying his very best to
hold the entire troupe together, while not being very bright himself.

Every scene got designed to have the characters endear themselves to
the audience, even if they come silent, such as the bicycle riding
bear, and a couple of English dogs voiced by the likes of Vinnie Jones,
Steve Jones and Nick Fletcher. Paz Vega also lent her voice to a
collective group of show-horses, while perennial favourites such as
Sacha Baron Cohen's Julien and Cedric the Entertainer's Maurice almost
always threaten to run away with the show, given their rather spaced
out moments that run outside of the main narrative thread. There are
colours galore with gags running wild, and I'd suspect where your sense
of humour might have been misplaced if there's absolutely nothing here
in the film that can tickle your funny bone.

With an assortment of pop songs ranging from 90s hits to those by Katy
Perry, the signature theme song only got an airplay during the end
credits, and is an amalgamation of the Afro Circus song written by
Chris Rock, that somehow had a strange yet infectious blend that
epitomizes everything that had transpired in this film, and set itself
up for more. Themes of friendship and sticking together through thick
and thin, of never giving up and the likes, are good themes to have for
a film that's going to appeal to the young for sure.

I'd like to think there's a stop at three policy and to leave the
franchise as it is now, going off at a high, rather than to continue
with a formula that would ultimately show its age. Madagascar 3 worked
and delivered everything you'd expect of a crowd pleaser that can
appeal to all age groups, and I'm very much compelled to earmark this
for a 3D blu-ray title for keeps. Definitely highly recommended in my
books, given its rarity of it improving upon the strengths of its
predecessors, and finding room to add more characters, not caricatures,
to its mythos.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this at the Cannes Film Festival 2012 after deciding to take
a break from all the serious art-house fare on offer. With the
exception of Ben Stiller's lead all the original supporting leads take
virtually a back seat in this third instalment. But several great new
characters are introduced namely Frances McDormand as Captain Chantel
DuBois, Bryan Cranston as Vitaly and the fabulous Martin Short as
Stefano. All there performances are stand out but wished Shorts Stefano
was featured more. Cranston as Vitaly was beautifully menacing but it
is the wacky deadly policewoman in charge of hunting down and capturing
the animals as they make their way across Europe which is the centre of
the narrative drive. Since the police team where obviously the bad guys
(DuBois only wants to capture Mike (Ben Stiller) so she can add his
head to her mounted collection of stuffed animals on her office wall)
it was ironic that I watched this in France since the police were
portrayed as bunch gung-ho obsessive freaks (DuBois crawls around on
all fours to sniff down her prey like a dog come insect). The film was
screened in 3D, initially I was apprehensive since I don't really enjoy
3D movies but this was a pleasant surprise. After a few minutes I had
completely forgotten that I was wearing the 3D glasses and
actually...in the spectacular climatic scene I was completely wowed. An
explosion of vivid movement and colour formed an intricate moving
tapestry of light and colour that was gorgeous to watch. The kids will
love it and any one young at heart enough to let themselves loose
themselves in escapist fun for a couple of hours. One of the best
"family" animation films that I've seen in years and highly
recommended. Oh I nearly forgot....Baron Cohen's (as The King) love
affair with a giant mute bear is both surreal and priceless!
<|_=00=_|>
As with most sequels, the quality greatly decreases with the number.
Madagascar 3 is not an exception. I watched the first Madagascar back
in 2005 and me and my friends found it hilarious. The second
installment was still OK, but this one ... terribly sucks. I looked at
the movie rating and the raving reviews and I am still wondering if the
people were on some kind of drugs while watching it. Maybe one of the
reasons is that I watched it on 2d and did not get the 3d treatment
like the rest, but if one dimension will make you rate a movie that
high, then the humanity is definitely in trouble.

For me it seems that this episode was created for kids up to 5-6 years
of age: simple jokes, whole bunch of rainbows and bright colors, lots
of musical flicks, many scenes that lack logical explanation (from
being in Africa the animals end up in Monte Carlo swimming - why didn't
they swim to the US in the first place then), lots of shallow
characters, really insanely overblown circus tricks (a tiger going
through a ring after being lubricated from head to toe).

Even the penguins are not the same. I cannot really say what was wrong
with them, but they seem to be just a part of the scenery.

The only thing that was missing was pink unicorns, but I think it was
well compensated by a zebra painted in white with colorful spots,
wearing a rainbow-colored wig and singing something about polka.
Genuinely ridiculous. Someone in the reviews was wondering what drug
were the creators of this movie on ...

The only thing I really laughed at was the relationship between the
lemur and the bear.

So, to summarize: if you are more than 5 years old you should find that
this movie was a total waste of your time and money.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally! We have a movie in 2012 that is worth every minute and every
penny. If your kids (or you, for that matter) cannot stop singing
"Circus! Afro!" then go ahead and see Madagascar 3: Europe's Most
Wanted in 3D. It is the most clever, fun, and exciting animated film to
hit theaters in a long time.

When we see our favorite zoo escapees this time, they are on the run
with their jungle friends in Europe. Alex (Ben Stiller), Marty (Chris
Rock), Gloria (Jada Pinkett Smith) and Melman (David Schwimmer)
desperately want to get back to Central Park. Standing in their way is
Captain Chantel Dubois (Frances McDormand) as the most evil animal
control officer in the world. They narrowly escape her clutches by
jumping on a train with a traveling circus. Now their only hope for
getting to New York is to buy the circus and whip them into good enough
shape to earn a touring contract in America.

Director and screenwriter Eric Darnell does an excellent job of leading
the crew with this third installment. The story incorporates new
characters beautifully by adding a love interest for Alex (Gia, voiced
by Jessica Chastain), a dopey friend for Marty (Stefano, voiced by
Martin Short), and a fallen hero everyone can cheer for (Vitaly, a
tiger voiced by Bryan Cranston). King Julien (Sacha Baron Cohen) also
finds love in a big bear wearing a tutu named Sonya, and the results
are as hilariously sweet as the love saga of Donkey and Dragon. Kids
will be able to keep up with all of the new names and nationalities and
may even find a new favorite character in the bunch.

What makes this movie truly magic is the skillful use of 3D technology.
Every leap on the flying trapeze, flight out of a cannon, and grasp at
an animal's tail by Captain Dubois jumps out of the screen and excites
the senses. It is so refreshing to see a movie in 3D that actually
takes full advantage of its capability. The clever script and silly
animation also kept me laughing, but I could have done without all of
the jabs at people of Russian, French, Canadian, and basically all
non-American descent. What was initially funny drifted toward mean, and
resulted in one joke that was totally inappropriate. These moments only
accounted for about 5 of the nearly 90 minutes of running time, so do
not let that deter you from enjoying this chaotic adventure.

Madagascar 3 is just like going to the circus, but with more laughter
and less wondering about how the animals are treated backstage. If you
still like to "move it, move it," then you need to see it see it!

Review courtesy of The Rogers Revue
<|_=00=_|>
I know it sounds silly to say I want more realism from a film about
four talking zoo animals, but Madagascar III was so far removed from
any sense of internal logic or consistency that it was just plain
stupid.

Very little about the first Madagascar falls out of line with reality.
They even go so far as to explain why the animals can't talk: When the
quartet is nearly apprehended at Grand Central Station and Alex (the
lion) tries to reason with the crowd but his speaking comes out as
roaring.

The third Madagascar got so ridiculous, I eventually tuned its attempts
at making sense out like white noise. We have the animals deciding to
swim halfway across the planet, a tiger who can jump through a wedding
ring, the circus now being run by chimpanzees and selling out to a
human audience, and a lion suddenly learning the trapeze.

None of the new plot developments are particularly additive. In one,
Sasha Baron Cohen's lemur monkey falls madly in love with a big bear
(which by the way, is kind of gross) and the two go to the Vatican to
kiss the pope's hand and get his blessing. What?! I'm not sure where
the pope stands on monkey-bear unions but at least the first and second
installments had a clearly spelled out humans-animals relationship.

The movie also feels rushed. It wasn't just the actual running time of
93 minutes, but the storyline weaved its way from one plot point to
another at right angles with no transition. The gang decides to go to
Monte Carlo and are suddenly there one scene later. One scene after
that, they're being chased out of Monte Carlo and onto the next
adventure. There's a weary Russian tiger played by Bryan Cranston who
warns against clichÃ©s and nearly quits the circus but is talked out of
it in 30 seconds by Alex. What do you call a sudden 180 reversal like
that again? Oh yes, it's a clichÃ©.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to believe that it has been over seven years since the first
"Madagascar" film arrived in theaters back in 2005. Now, the number of
installments in the movie franchise has risen to three. In "Madagascar
3: Europe's Most Wanted" we are reunited with our beloved Alex the
Lion, Marty the Zebra, Gloria the Hippo, and Melman the Giraffe. Our
favorite animals are stuck in Africa and are missing their home in
Central Park Zoo in New York. In the process, they head to Europe
(marking a shift in the setting compared to its two predecessors which
are set in Africa) where most of the adventure takes place. Regardless,
this third installment is a marked improvement from its two excellent
predecessors, offers a great deal of fun, and promises a hear-pumping
ride.

"Europe's Most Wanted" is mostly set in Europe, from Monte Carlo all
the way to London. This marks a shift in the setting compared to its
two predecessors which are set in Africa. Anyways, you're probably
wondering "What happens in this third installment?". Apparently our
four favorite animals are stranded in Africa along with King Julien,
Maurice, and Mort. The penguins and monkeys left them and head to Monte
Carlo (specifically the luxurious casinos) and promise to never come
back. The remaining seven animals then head to Europe to capture the
penguins and monkeys in the hotel, only to cause trouble. Because of
the chaos that ensues, Animal Control Captain Chantel DuBois is hired
to capture these escaped animals in a chase that spans all over Europe.
DuBois is ruthless and she actually wants the animals dead, especially
Alex. Aside from ruthless, she possesses some of the coolest moves you
would least expect from an elderly woman, and some of the most
preposterous tracking methods, more reminiscent of a dog's.

Along the way, the escapees encounter the circus train belonging to the
Circus Zaragoza (later renamed Afro Circus) where we meet new friends
(which consist of the circus's members). This includes Stefano the sea
lion who is a sea lion cannonball, Gia the jaguar who is a skilled
trapeze, and the most harrowing of them all, Vitaly the tiger who can
jump through a ring of all sizes (even as small as an engagement ring).
We also meet Sonya the Bear, whom King Julien develops a romantic yet
comedic relationship with. Apparently the circus has been losing its
luster ever since Vitaly's bad incident years ago. From then on, the
circus crew just didn't have that same energy and excitement they had
before. Alex later on along with his friends attempt to rebuild the
circus by developing some of the sickest and breathtaking stunts ever
for a circus show.

The breathtaking circus stunts bring one of the most entertaining
scenes in the entire movie. The scene I'm talking about is when the
circus crew, now added with Alex and friends, performed in London. I
like how they combine the different acts together along with the neon
lights, fantastic sets, and not to forget, Katy Perry's "Firework" song
playing in the background, to create something so spectacular and
bright and colorful. Add the stunning 3D effect and this scene is just
flawless.

"Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted" is humorous and is better than the
previous two installments even in terms of humor. Marty the Zebra'
jokes assure that this film will be humorous while the romantic
relationship between Sonya the Bear and King Julien is silly that it
makes you laugh. But what made me laugh the most was DuBois's
preposterous methods of tracking the animals. She can crawl on all
fours and inhale the air to see what the scene was like hours ago. It
is so preposterous that it's funny and humorous. She also possesses
some of the coolest moves you'll ever see, most of them present in the
chase scene in Monte Carlo where DuBois jumps over obstacles with her
bike and does crazy stunts. 

The actors gave applauding voice performances. Ben Stiller was great as
usual providing the voice of Alex the Lion. Chris Rock delivered a
great sound for Marty the Zebra. Jada Pinkett Smith gave a strong voice
for Gloria the Hippo whereas David Schwimmer provided a great sound for
Melman the Giraffe. Frances McDormand gave one of the best performances
as she voices DuBois with ruthlessly and hauntingly whereas Bryan
Cranston delivered a menacing voice for Vitaly the Tiger. I also loved
Martin Short's performance as the sea lion Stefano where he makes
Stefano an extremely likable figure and I wished that his screen time
had been extended and made longer. 

The 3D is also one thing to note about for this film. It's excellent
and enhances the movie experience. One of the scenes that benefit from
3D is the circus show set in London where there is an eclectic mix of
fantastic sets, breathtaking stunts, and the beautiful upbeat song
("Firework" by Katy Perry) in the background. It makes you feel the
movie more and makes the ride more thrilling. 

Whether you're a fan of the previous two installments or not, go watch
this one. "Europe's Most Wanted" is an improvement from the previous
two films, even when its predecessors are already excellent. Its shift
in the setting makes the movie more interesting and the presence of a
human villain makes it more exciting. The 3D enhances the movie
experience and allows you to feel more and capture the heart of the
film. Overall, "Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted" is a great film and
highly recommended especially after it's been a long time after the
last family-oriented animated movie came out in theaters so go watch
this film with your families. 

Rating: 8/10

Final Verdict: "Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted" is an improvement
from its two excellent predecessors that entertains you immensely and
delivers a great deal of fun - and it has to be watched in 3D.
<|_=00=_|>
Whoever said watching a movie in 3D is the same as watching it in 2D,
got it all wrong. Madagascar 3 has amazing 3D effects which will really
make you experience the movie in a different way. From the beginning
till the end, you will get into fits of laughter and the animals will
keep you entertained. The overall plot of the movie is good but what
really steals the show are the new Italian circus animals and their
Italian accent. I always felt that the real hero's of this smart
Penguins and Marti, the Lion, is only a pseudo hero.

What I didn't like about this movie was the unrealistic villain and her
super human abilities, although funny, but at some point you will feel
it was too much. But I can bet you won't notice the small things with
the crazy animals making you LOL through out.

My suggestion: Don't miss this one, and watch it in 3D.
<|_=00=_|>
'MADAGASCAR 3: EUROPE'S MOST WANTED': Two Stars (Out of Five) 

The second sequel to the popular DreamWorks animated movie finds the
animal characters from the first two films once again trying to make
their way home to New York Central Zoo, where they originally escaped
from. This time they join a traveling circus in Europe and have an evil
Animal Control Captain hot on their trail. Ben Stiller, Chris Rock,
David Schwimmer, Jada Pinkett Smith, Sacha Baron Cohen, Cedric the
Entertainer, Andy Richter and Tom McGrath all reprise their voice roles
and are joined this time by Jessica Chastain, Frances McDormand, Bryan
Cranston and Martin Short. The film is just more of the same and I was
never a fan of the series to begin with (although I don't think I ever
saw the second installment). The jokes are forced and the action is
chaotic. Should please kids though.

Alex the lion (Stiller), Marty the zebra (Rock), Melman the giraffe
(Schwimmer) and Gloria the hippo (Smith) are still trying to make their
way home to the New York Central Zoo, which they escaped from in the
original film and traveled to Madagascar (with the help of four
penguins). In this film they first journey to Monte Carlo, in order to
find the penguins once again. There they find trouble once again as
well and have Animal Control called on them. The Captain of Animal
Control (McDormand) wants nothing more than to kill Alex and
relentlessly pursues him and the other animals. They join a traveling
circus, as cover, and find a new family of struggling friends there.
They're soon, of course, not sure if they even want to go back to the
zoo in New York or not.

The film was directed by Eric Darnell, Conrad Vernon and Tom McGrath
(Darnell and McGrath also co-directed and co-wrote the first two films
as well). Noah Baumbach (who directed and wrote such critically
acclaimed hits as 'GREENBERG' and 'THE SQUID AND THE WHALE') also
co-wrote the screenplay for this. Considering all the talent involved
(in acting, writing and directing) I just expect a lot more. I know the
movie is made for kids, and on that level it succeeds, but kids' movies
don't have to be so dumbed down and pointless. They can actually be
smart, clever and have a well thought out message. This movie is just a
mess. A mess that kids will enjoy but probably no one else.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k6yq7kwUUDQ
<|_=00=_|>
It's been four years since the last Madagascar film was released.
Surprisingly, the elements of the franchise is still there and the film
does not feel strangely different like in most sequels. Except, this
one has a larger scale and crazier action. Well, Dreamworks Animation
has gone to a new level in animation. Bringing a quicker, bigger, and
more spectacular visuals to the film and make it a non-stop ride and
worth it in 3D. But it's still not as compelling as any other classic
animation films. The only purpose of these Madagascar films is to have
fun and it truly succeeds in doing that.

It has the same old trope of the series. The gang trying to get back to
New York then they suddenly bumped into new friends and they end up
lingering to their situation and an old lady hates Alex the Lion. The
penguins having the best gags and King Julien being crazy. It's
delightful and the fans will be pleased for seeing these again. The new
characters are as likable as the original characters. While everything
is fun, the wonderful visuals adds the film's enjoyment. There are
plenty of sequences that are meant to be seen in the big screen, either
in 2D or 3D.

Some scenes are ridiculously exciting, some are awfully eye-candy. The
film itself is like a spectacular show with so many wonderful colors.
But it does not go beyond that. The film only wants to be big, fun, and
nothing else. Just make sure you are not looking for more than
mind-blowing visuals. The jokes are still pretty hilarious. You will
still root for these characters. There is no need to tell how was the
voice acting because all of them are predictably good.

Madagascar 3 is the most gorgeous part of the series but not quite the
best. The trilogy will probably remain only as a little cult classic.
We loved the humor, the characters, and their crazy antics. The movies
have heart but there is a little impact to their drama. It's not
something like Pixar. But these Madagascar films have their own
personality and we accepted it. Talking animals escaping and creating
some disaster. Slow moments with clever and sometimes slapstick gags.
If you are a fan of these films then you will see something spectacular
to it, but like I said, there is nothing bigger than that.
