
Just caught this at the Toronto Film festival. It is undoubtedly one of
the higher quality dramas in 2011. At its heart is a baseball-centric
docu-drama, but even folks with zero baseball knowledge/interest can
enjoy and be moved by this movie.

Jonah Hill's performance in the film is phenomenal, and this may be the
break that that young actor has been joshing for. His portrayal Peter
Brand, a Yale Economics major and full time computer nerd is beyond
believable, you practically swear that you know him personally a few
days after the movie.

The role of Billy Beane, played by Brad Pitt, is an incredibly
demanding one. While there are tons of dialog, hack arguments, display
of physical rage, etc; it is the silent story telling, emotional
turmoil, change-of-heart reflections, pupils-triggered catharsis, and
so on that are the toughest to convey and requires a well-seasoned
character actor. This is easily Brad at his widest acting range - and
you see all of it in a little over two hours. 

To be totally honest, I have not been tracking Philip Seymour Hoffman's
acting career until this film. His portrayal of the ready-to-exit
Oakland A's coach Art Howe, caught between "the for-sure old money" and
the "crazy senseless new reality", convinced me that they couldn't have
casted this part any better. Hoffman delivers on every single scene and
you literally sweat his frustration along with him. This foil to Brad
Pitt's character is actually effective enough to save several heavy-
drama exchange where Brad's delivery falls slightly short of the mark.

This is an "onion" movie, constructed purposely to be entertaining on
many levels. It can be watched purely as an entertaining account of
modern baseball history - how player statistics became one of the most
important factors determining financial success in modern baseball. 

For more sentimental audience it tracks the journey of a man, forced to
embrace change and disappointment as he fumble aimlessly through life
etching out an unremarkable career first as a failing professional
player, then small-time scout, and washed-out General Manager; only to
finally wake up - and find himself becoming one of the greatest living
innovator of the modern game.

Finally, for the abstract-at-heart, and those who knows or cares little
about the game of baseball (like yours truly), this is a tale of an
industry under irreversible change; a documentary of the conflict
between innovators who brave the slings-and-arrows to map out the new
ways, and the old stalwarts who goes all out to protect their crumbling
turf. 

At this historic moment in time, the message really hits a home-run!
Other than baseball, we've recently witness similar changes and
conflicts played out in public across the automobile, music
distribution, movie distribution, book distribution, home computer,
banking , and many other industries. Every unemployed in a vanishing
industry can easily identify with the old Billy Beane, it is how Billy
leverage his disappointment and experience, to turn his life around
that we can all aspire to.

A worthy note is the soundtrack for the movie, grass-root simple and
heartfelt, it sent me looking for the album on itunes - only to realize
that the movie has not been officially released yet.
<|_=00=_|>
Moneyball tells the story of the 2002 season of the Oakland Athletics,
a team that rose to notoriety because of its low payroll and unorthodox
player selection. Billy Beane (Brad Pitt), a former player turned
general manage, grows tired with the ancient, inefficient ways of the
game he has committed his entire life to. When a transaction goes awry
he stumbles across Peter Brand (Jonah Hill), a Yale, economics graduate
who believes he has a system to rating players based on numbers.

Billy and Peter begin trading, signing, and grooming the team based on
data, not scouting, something that other members of the team are not
fond of, including Art Howe (Philip Seymour Hoffman), the team's
manager. Billy and Peter's system defies current baseball logic, but
when the club starts to win games with players like Scott Hatteberg
(Chris Pratt), David Justice (Stephen Bishop), and Chad Bradford (Casey
Bond), the eyes of the country turn to Oakland, where only seeing is
believing.

What happened in Oakland back in '02 was incredible. It shouldn't have
happened if you ask the right people, and other people will tell you it
means nothing. Well, it did mean something it has changed the way
people think about the game for good. You couldn't just go out and look
at a kid to see if he would be a star or not. There were more stats to
consider than home runs, strikeouts, and batting average. The game was
expanding and becoming more and more a battle of logic.

The film's structure is centered mostly on Billy Beane, but the most
exciting parts for me were about the system. Writer Aaron Sorkin, who a
few months back accepted a slew of awards for his screenplay The Social
Network, tosses out jargon that baseball fanatics go crazy for. For the
general audience, that's where Billy helps out. Peter explains the
system and has to break it down more for Beane (i.e. the audience) so
everybody on screen and in the seats is on the same page.

Pitt's portrayal of Beane won me over. He completely caught me off
guard. I know Pitt can act but I remember him for performances that
were very complex on the outside. Aldo Raine (Inglourious Basterds)
with his pronounces chin, squinty eyes, and thick accent. Benjamin
Button (The Curious Case of Benjamin Button) who grew younger as he got
older. Jeffrey Goines (12 Monkeys) who couldn't sit still let alone
focus on one subject in a conversation. Yes, he was nominated for all
these performances, but in a performance like this there is something
bubbling under the surface. All of his characters to an extent have
something going on underneath, only this character, Billy Beane, is so
normal and calm on the outside, yet when he is alone we can see pain
and frustration.

His supporting cast of Hill, Hoffman, and the slew of ball players and
colleagues, help turn this baseball team into the world of Oakland
Athletics. Hill and Hoffman especially play perfect compliments to
Pitt's sunny exterior. Hill is quiet, timid, and very smart. Hoffman is
cold, weathered, and stubborn. Pitt is able to play off of both
temperaments and make their scenes together pop off the screen.

The one thing that this movie has going for it is the lack of actual
action on the diamond. There are some great scenes of actual baseball,
one at bat by Hatteberg in particular struck a chord with me, but for
the most part the action is behind the scenes. There is enough for a
sports junkie to get their fix and enough drama and with Beane and his
family to entice any average viewer into the theater. I can't think of
many target groups that wouldn't find it interesting, except for
children, due to language and complexity of some of the dialogue. All
in all this is one movie that will please a lot of people, and more
importantly a lot of different people, sort of like The Blind Side,
only the movie is actually really good.
<|_=00=_|>
I have another rare chance to catch a film more than a day before its
national release. Usually when this happens there's a horde of folks
queued up. When the doors to the theatre open, phones are sequestered,
and a rush is put on to find prime seating. Those were movies starring
a bunch of well less than household names. Surely a sneak to see a
Brad Pitt movie would be even more chaotic. Unfortunately the waning
popularity of America's pastime is as much of a deterrent as a movie
star and free entertainment are agents of attraction. 

Billy Beane (Brad Pitt) is a former major leaguer turned general
manager of the Oakland A's. After losing in the playoffs to the
Yankees, the A's lose their stars to free agency. Billy is tasked with
rebuilding despite a payroll that leaves the A's trailing the
competition. 

While going through the usual motions, Billy happens by Pete Brand
(Jonah Hill), an economist who may have found a way to scout baseball
with the efficiency the A's need. The two delve in head first, and
despite some tough outings they never back down.

Pitt is at the top of his game. As an everymanor at least one that
isn't played up as wealthy, a man struggling to keep his
jobfrustration is clearly seen in Pitt's face. Pitt brings humanity to
the ominous job of a general manager. Flashbacks of his stint in "the
show" surmise his entire life, be it his divorce or relationship with
his daughter Casey (Kerris Dorsey).

Moneyball is not the action-packed sports outing one may be expecting.
Director Bennett Miller spends very little time focusing on the game of
baseball, or even the personalities of the players. Moneyball is a
movie about management. Its deadpan, forthright approach is fresh
compared to the typical underdog story filled with home runs and stolen
bases. There's no electrifying music or thrilling speeches, but the
excitement found in a phone call is realized as well as one could
imagine. I don't think any actor other than Hill could pull of his
slowly clinched fist.

Like the good sports films, Moneyball shares a deeper meaning than
simply winning. Immediately the value of loyalty comes to mind. The
sports genre is changing, much like how the crew of this story changed
talent scouting. Just last year a movie rose up about the struggle to
manage a boxer, and now here's the struggle to manage a team.
<|_=00=_|>
It has long been said that professional sports are more a game of
politics than an actual game. Major League Baseball is not just a game
of money, but in "Moneyball" it's a game of numbers versus a game of
people. It's callousness at its highest when general managers trade
away people as if they're objects with little regard for them or their
family. Brad Pitt as Billy Beane, the GM of the Oakland As, seems to
take that even further, treating people as if they are only numbers,
and yet there was something refreshing and humanistic about the whole
thing.

It's 2001 and Oakland has just lost to the New York Yankees in the
playoffs, not surprising, seeing as their payroll was 76 Million
dollars less. The humour of "Moneyball" starts in the off-season when
the team can't afford to keep their top players and Beane and his
experienced scouts start tossing around some free agent ideas. One guy
is no good because he frequents strip clubs too often, another guy is
no good because his girlfriend is ugly, and on down the list they go.
But then Beane meets Yale-educated, economics-, mathematics-, and
computer-whiz, baseball fan, Peter Brand (Jonah Hill). He has no
experience and he doesn't know these players. He doesn't know if they
stand funny or if they swing ugly. He only knows their stats and their
salary. 

A lot of people took offense to Beane's approach of degrading players
down to the sum total of their on-base percentage and runs-in
potential. But I liked it. Since the game of baseball isn't changing
any time soon and players will always just be elements that can help
win games and make more money, why not view them as numbers rather than
as people with ugly girlfriends? Like Peter Brand, I like numbers. 

It's a movie about doing more with less, so I think we're just supposed
to ignore the irony that they needed an excessively high budget to make
it. In fact, it cost Sony Pictures more money to make this movie than
it cost the Oakland A's to field their entire team for a season. Oh
well, only one lesson for Hollywood at a time, and I still liked the
movie.

For a movie about people trying to change the game of baseball, it's
only fitting that they are changing the sports genre. This isn't about
the team and how many games they're going to win. As in all cases, they
win some and they lose some. And we really only meet one player, the
rest are just names thrown in the air. The movie is about Billy Beane,
a real person, and a multi-dimensional character. At first he realizes
that he is going to have to play the game with more than just money,
and then after he makes it about numbers too, he finds a balanced
statistical and personal concept.

"Moneyball" says that the game is about money, but the movie is about
people. Writer Aaron Sorkin knows how to write people, and as evidenced
by "The Social Network" (2010), he also knows how to turn
computer-programming into riveting cinema. We find humour in the
least-expected of places, we find heart in the least-expected of
people, and 'Moneyball" gives us a completely enjoyable movie that
becomes so much more than numbers.
<|_=00=_|>
America's pastime has returned to the big screen and it is more witty
and elegant than ever. Moneyball is the inspiring story of the Oakland
A's, a team that was all but bankrupt but managed to beat the odds
through intelligence and perseverance. Brad Pitt plays Billy Beane, the
team's general manager who has run out of ideas on how to make his
strapped for cash team successful. This is until he meets Pete Brand,
played by Jonah Hill, an economic major from Yale. Brand devises a
formula that analyzes players in a way nobody else does, thus revealing
statistics about players that no one else can see. Beane and Brand use
this formula to build up their unlikely roster of misfits. The themes
of this film run deep through our aspiring minds. It's a film about
beating the odds, going against the current, and standing up for what
you believe is right. It is a moving and inspiring film that really
only uses baseball as a backdrop for its deeper and more universal
themes. It's a moving film and you don't have to be a baseball fan to
love it.

The strongest element of Moneyball is easily Aaron Sorkin and Steve
Zaillian's incredibly sharp script. Moneyball brings up fond memories
of 2010's The Social Network in which Sorkin pulled out all the stops
in his intellectual screen writing ability. The dialogue in Moneyball
moves at the same pace as any Sorkin or Zaillian script does. It has a
driving cadence to it that keeps a film entirely dominated by dialogue
very exciting and entertaining. Their script is lively, energetic, and
diverse. Moneyball has intensely emotional scenes that compel and
inspire, but then it has its lighthearted and much funnier moments that
have the exact same affect. There's a lot to be said for any film that
has the capability to make its audience laugh and cry in the same two
hour span. Moneyball is a film like that and it all begins at Sorkin's
fantastic script.

However, it is helped by the film's superb cast. Brad Pitt leads the
film perfectly, creating a very interesting protagonist and driving the
film in a way few leads can. He attacks his role as Billy Beane with
the utmost care, respect, and sincerity. Despite all of Pitt's good
looks and always recognizable celebrity face, you will have a hard time
remembering that Pitt is the one acting, not Billy Beane. But, as
always, where would such a strong lead be without his supporting cast?
Moneyball has that supporting cast, and it finds its immeasurable
talent in the most unlikely of places. I'm talking, of course, about
Jonah Hill. Hill has built his career on being a comedy caricature with
over the top flicks such as Superbad and Get Him to the Greek. But all
that changes when Hill takes on the role of Pete Brand. His performance
is stellar. He proves himself to be a true up and comer who won't find
himself restricted within the confines of teen comedy.

Overall, Moneyball is your typical crowd pleaser, but it is incredibly
high quality. It is so well directed, so superbly acted, and Sorkin and
Zaillian's script is practically flawless. Personally this isn't the
film I will go crazy about. Rather, it is a film that I will enjoy so
sincerely and with all my heart. I really did love this film and my
respect for it is eternal. It may be typical and straightforward in its
overall themes, but the quality of the film outshines this. Moneyball
is just an excellent film.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, when purchasing my ticket I expected to see a good movie about 
baseball. I was rewarded with just that. Overall I thought the film 
excellent, both as a finely crafted film and as a representative of 
baseball. To demonstrate that I had no preconceived prejudices, I can 
say that I'm not really a fan of professional sports any longer. My 
fond memories of baseball are mostly from playing the game when I was a 
kid. We lived in a neighborhood with a lot of boys, all of whom were 
involved in sports and we played baseball a lot. But, that was the 
1950's and times have changed. No one now days can hold a candle to The 
Mick.

The film centers around the Oakland A's in the early 2000's and it's 
controversial General Manager, Billy Beane, skillfully played by Brad 
Pitt. The premise is the real story of how, with an extremely small 
budget for a professional sports team, he managed to win a surprising 
number of games, including setting an all-time major league record of 
20 consecutive wins. The method used by Beane was not of his invention, 
having already been around in theory and known as "sabermetrics". The 
crafting of the team into that form is credited to have been begun by 
Beane's predecessor, Sandy Alderson. Beane himself was thrust to the 
forefront as the focus of a successful 2003 best-selling book 
"Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game"; which ultimately led to 
this film.

The film was very well done, really succeeding in sucking in the 
audience to it's ebb and flow. The audience I was in clearly enjoyed 
the film, there was a lot of laughter in the right places and applause 
at the end, which is rare enough. The setting had the look and feel of 
realism and the same with regard to the actors portraying the players. 
There was a fairly long list of good character actors peppered 
throughout the film, all of whom added considerably to the film's 
realism.

But the lion's share of the film, and the credit for it's quality, goes 
primarily to it's major stars, Brad Pitt, Philip Seymour Hoffman 
playing Team Manger Art Howe, and Jonah Hill, as the fictional 
character Peter Brand who is said to have been based on Paul DePodesta 
who was Beane's assistant during the period covered by the film. 
Hoffman is great as usual but played his character a bit understated. 
Jonah Hill nearly ran off with the attention altogether while he was on 
screen. But Pitt clearly controlled the central attention and did so 
with ease and excellence. He managed to make the character look smart, 
fair and quite human.

Pitt's humanity was helped by the presence of tidbits of his family 
life, mainly focused on his relationship with his 12 year old daughter, 
well represented on screen by the young Kerris Dorsey as Casey Beane. 
The interplay between them added a lot of humanity to the film that 
would have otherwise been lacking. There was a small part played by 
Robin Wright as Beane's ex-wife Sharon. It was the closest anything in 
the film came to a romantic involvement.

Many of the character actors made important contributions, such as 
Stephen Bishop as David Justice, Chris Pratt as Scott Hatteberg and 
Brent Jennings as Ron Washington. There was even a cameo by Joe 
Satriani playing his guitar as superbly as usual.

Leaving the theater I thought that one would have to have at least a 
working knowledge of the game of baseball to get the most out of the 
film. I wondered how it would play to someone without that knowledge 
and I think a lot would be lost, but it would still be enjoyable for 
it's basic story of struggling to overcome long odds to achieve 
something good and the exploration of the people and personalities 
involved. That's a pretty good accomplishment for any film to make and 
this one does it with a lot of fun and class.

<|_=00=_|>
Surprisingly, this movie is less about the baseball game than the game
of baseball. What is striking about this movie (and it's not about
outs) is the raw audio sound technique used in this movie that is
usually found in documentaries than feature films which helps make this
movie come alive. There is a the ambiance of background sound and the
echo that seems to resonate and bring the movie closer to the audience
and present a much closer to realism experience. There isn't that much
actual continuous footage of baseball in this movie, but rather the
management of it. The heightened personal and emotional tension is
carried throughout the movie and Director Bennett Miller has put
together this compelling very intimate portrait of a man played by Brad
Pitt and his statistician in an unusual angle of the game of baseball.

Somehow the almost overly brief snippets of scenes and background of
current events and story are blended together along with poignant
flashbacks will edited into some meaningful, main storyline without
ever creating the idea of that the additional footage has someone been
shortchanged. Bennett Miller apparently in his wisdom was able to
capture the primary message of the movie, developed an accompanying
background, and maintained the singular story around the entire movie,
the art of carefully scriptwriting and editing.

Even without the formulaic all-American ending, Bennett Miller was able
to wrap this movie into a complete feeling of wholeness for a feature
film. Miller made excellent use of silence and editing choices in
keeping the camera going just long enough for the more in-depth,
substantive emotional impact of a scene to sink in. Miller seems to
have brought a new found vision of a approach that brings a more
connectiveness and meaningfulness to film-making, especially to
interesting stories of reality that aren't even about the biggest and
most momentous achievements of humanity and bringing them captivatingly
to the big screen.
<|_=00=_|>
In a league where the New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox regularly
field teams with $100 million-plus payrolls, how do you field a
competitive team with a payroll that is a mere fraction of that, at $37
million? This question could have been the basis for a dry documentary,
only appealing to a legion of die hard statistical analysis baseball
geeks, but instead, it forms the basis of a film that shows a great
deal of heart and spirit which moves it into a statement I never
thought I would be making, but here goes: Moneyball is possibly the
best baseball movie I have I ever seen.

Granted, I've never seen Bull Durham or Major League, but even with
that deficiency in my sports film-viewing I can say with some
confidence that this is at least as good or better than Field of Dreams
and at least as good or better than The Bad News Bears.

The answer to the conundrum of fielding a competitive team with a
limited budget is in fact the one sought by Billy Beane, the general
manager of the Oakland Athletics. In 2001, after sending a team to the
divisional playoffs only to lose in a heartbreaking game 5 to the big
market big money New York Yankees (who went on to lose the World Series
to Arizona), he was losing three of his star players and he simply
could not afford to replace them. He hit the realization that in order
to compete, he had to re-think the way that baseball business is done.
No longer could he think in terms of buying his way into the playoffs
(as the Yankees seem to do every year), but instead he would devise a
system that would revolutionize the way that baseball is playedor at
least they way a team is constructed. To this end, he constructed an
unorthodox and unconventional system which at the time was completely
unheard-of. Suddenly, players were valued not for home runs or batting
average, but for walks and runs scored. Under this system, 3 players
making 250,000 each were worth the same as one player making 7 million.
And in doing so, Beane managed to field a winning team who set an
American League record for consecutive wins. Critics may point out that
as yet, under this system, the A's still haven't won a championship.
But they were always competitive, which is more than we can say for the
majority of the teams in the league who also are not winning
championships and are in fact spending a lot more money.

These ideas have been around for about ten years now and are now pretty
much commonplace in baseball, but at the time Beane was ridiculed for
trying them. The writing is excellent (Aaron Sorkin has a screenplay
credit) and draws you in even without a lot of "action." We know that
Oakland will not win that final game of the series, we know that Beane
will continue to strive for that elusive championship, but we still
have a lot to root for and cheer for. Even my personal feelings about
my own team (sigh--long-suffering Orioles fan) did not in anyway
prevent me from cheering the A's improbable drive toward history. The
relationship between Beane and his daughter is a nice, and helps to
drive in the fact that to some, baseball is more than a game. You might
even argue that this film is not so much about baseball but about the
effect our choices have on our lives and the lives around us--the
supposed threat that unconventional thinking presents to the status
quo.

Ultimately this film is the Bad News Bears of the new millennium--a
ragtag group of veterans and rookies and cast-offs come together under
the visionary leadership of a general manager who dared to think
outside the box. It is possible that if you have absolutely no interest
in baseball, you would still like this movie for its message about
resisting the urge to do what is safe and easy in favor of what is odd
and maybe even crazy...and works.
<|_=00=_|>
On recommendation from a friend, I recently saw Moneyball and thought
the movie was quite great. The storyline is intriguing to say the least
and though a lot of people already know the plot the movie made it come
to life. The cast was great and specifically Jonah Hill, who usually
does a great job in comedies, should get nominated for best supporting
actor in it. It is nice to see him make a switch to a non-comedic role
and I am sure this will greatly help his acting career.

This is one of those rare movies that everyone should like, whether
they are sports fans or not. The story is so interesting that it could
not have been made up and the original author of the book was well
represented in the screenplay. I read some commentary that this might
not be as big as The Blind Side overseas because a lot of people aren't
in love with baseball, but I think this appeals to all people even if
they are not a fan.

Overall, I think Sorkin did a wonderful job with the movie and picked a
perfect cast-he has definitely been on a roll lately. Although I saw a
matinée, I would have even liked it had I paid full price for my
tickets. So, enjoy... :-)
<|_=00=_|>
Sports films... Not a huge fan of them, and don't see them much because
of the predictability of them. However, one cannot deny the impact that
some have, like for example in recent years The Fighter and Aronofsky's
The Wrestler. Moneyball can now join them and is among the best films
of the year.

The film is always intriguing, and Aaron Sorkin (whose screenplay for
The Social Network was last year's best) is to be congratulated for
this. It's his wonderful script that gives the film the energy. What
also helps is the lack of predictability. Sure, one can't seem to hope
for an 'experimental' sports film, since this is based on a true story.
However, Sorkin, as well as the director, always keeps things
refreshing and interesting without becoming repetitive and stale. The
dialogue is brilliant of course, and the lack of 'field' action makes
it even more involving so when the important ball scene comes along it
makes an impact. The other big driving factor is Brad Pitt, who has had
an incredible year. His performance in The Tree of Life is already
among his finest work, and now this joins it as well. He portrays all
of the character traits with such versatility and charisma. A great and
satisfying protagonist. 

Overall, I was incredibly pleased with this. It is to this day the best
adapted screenplay of the year, and not surprisingly Pitt is my win in
both categories for both of his films.
