
The film is amazing, I absolutely loved it, the 3D animation is
spectacular, the voice acting is incredible and the music is
mesmerizing! Trust me, this is one film that actually lived up to
expectations, sure some parts were a bit forced but overall the film is
fantastic. The film had a great message in it and a very frighting
villain, The Pure Ones remind me of The Nazis and Ku Klux Klan. The
animation and fight choreography was very impressive and I'm very happy
they got actors like Hellen Mirren and Geoffry Rush to voice in the
film! Ultimately you will come out of the film and feel the money has
been well spent!
<|_=00=_|>
Within the Pixar Dominated, Slapstick Permeated, Cookie-Cutter animated
generation we currently live in, Legend of the Guardians: The Owls of
Ga'Hoole, Directed by Zack Snyder ("300" & "Watchmen"), breaks this
pedestrian mold through its Captivating Visuals, Engaging 3D, and its
Lord of the Rings-like Odyssey.

Based on a series of books written by Kathryn Lasky, this mythological
story centers on dreamer Soren (Jim Sturgess), a young owl enamored
with stories of "The Guardians", a clan of warrior owls who hail from
the Tree of Ga'Hoole, and protect the weak from an evil army called the
Pure Ones. When Soren and his brother, Kludd (Ryan Kwanten), are
kidnapped by these Pure Ones, the stories become reality. Soren escapes
and hunts for the Guardians to save the owl kingdom from the Pure Ones,
while Kludd slowly becomes one.

Legend of the Guardians is a milestone for animation and a 3D visual
masterpiece. Under the direction of Snyder, Australian company Animal
Logic (Creators of "Happy Feet" & special FX for "The Matrix" and "Lord
of the Rings") have achieved something incredibly remarkable. The
interaction of air and digital feathers work in a harmony that makes
Avatar look like an old computer game. The landscapes are absolutely
breathtaking, Monsoons are shimmering and talons glistening, this
brings out the best in Snyder's heavily artistic directing style, and
has adorned this movie with graceful battle scenes, beautifully blended
with his signature slow motion shots at the perfect moments.

With its comparisons to films like "The Secret of NIMH", "Watership
Down", "The Dark Crystal", with clear shades of "Star Wars", Guardians
is not your run-of-the-mill animated movie with a fart joke every 10
seconds. The movie takes on a much more serious disposition which fits
perfectly with its thematic flow. It is important to note, the film
deals with issues such as courage, unity, loyalty, faith, sacrifice and
betrayal tackled by Snyder with understated maturity. Though the story
moves at a fairly quick pace, you will be immersed in what develops, as
the writers did well to implement essentials to the storyline with
comprehensible dialogue.

With that being said, Guardians is an engaging and relatively intense
movie from start to finish. Thus, successfully separating our mindset
of "Animated" and "Kid Friendly" being synonymous with each other. It
is inspirational, breathtaking, humorous and educational with all the
essentials of an all in all great story and movie. The kids and adults
will both learn, while at the same time be visually enraptured by the
animation's beauty. Don't be remotely surprised if you see sequels as
it certainly has the legs to do so...or should I say wings (Note to
self: Refrain from the bird puns..)
<|_=00=_|>
Is 2010 the Golden Year of CG-animated films? We already had TWO
excellent films, all computer animated and all family-friendly. "How To
Train Your Dragon" and especially "Toy Story 3" are stunning in terms
of quality and technicalities. Even "Despicable Me" had a heart. I'd
add another to that list: "Legend of the Guardians: The Owls of
Ga'Hoole".

There will be complaints, like every other movie. Some will call the
story unoriginal. Some'll say it's childish because it has talking
animals. Some'll say it's stupid for the exact same reasons. I say, so
what?! It's a family film, meaning there's something for both kids and
those who are kids-at-heart! People go to the movies to be entertained,
especially families, and with that this film delivers in spades.

First we have a superb, outstanding cast consisting of
Australian/British actors of both the young and highest caliber.
There's too many actors to say here, so I'll just say this: the voice
acting is terrific. The owls speak in accents (for obvious reasons)
making them sound as far and away from being "Hollywood-ized" as
possible. There's depth, determination and heart to these characters.
The villains of the film are really menacing, a feat considering that
almost every character in the film are owls.

Story-wise, it's obviously unoriginal, but it is told very well. This
is due to the animation, which is absolutely, spectacularly stunning.
There is a great amount of detail in the film, especially on the owls,
you can see every feather, every movement they make, every gust of wind
that brushes that pass their feathers. Director Zack Snyder (finally
using his talents for the kids) puts his signature style to terrific
use here, using the "ramping" (frantic slowing down and speeding up
repeatedly) technique from his "300" and "Watchmen" for the action
sequences, that will make one forget he is watching an animated film,
let alone a movie that has talking owls. It's absolutely breathtaking
to see it in 2D alone, I watched it in 3D and had a hard time closing
my stuck jaw afterwords!

The film looks and feels like it's a lost "Lord of the Rings" film.
There's the armor, and the swords (talons), and then there's the big
bad (Metal Beak) and the young hero (Soren) who is destined for
greatness. It's set in a fantasy, far-away world where 3D is put to
terrific use. Not since "Avatar" has 3D been used so efficiently and
effectively that makes it an essential part of the story instead of
being distracting and gimmicky. Likewise, the cinematography and the
orchestral score is great and puts you into the film more. The owls
look painstakingly well- rendered and they don't look
too-clich√©d-cartoony or too-frighteningly- realistic. It's just right.
The only gripe I had with the film is the insertion of an Owl-City
(because he's practically the most famous artist today with the word
"Owl" in his name) song in the middle of the film which is distracting.
But apart from that everything else was great.

In short, it's one of the best animated films of the year. It's the
perfect movie to bring your family (and maybe friends as well) and
enjoy. Have no worries, sit back, and enjoy the ride. And seeing it in
3D is a plus, no matter what anyone else says. The ending also hints at
a sequel. Hope that's a possibility as Warner Bros. has a potential new
family franchise at their hands. And I hope Snyder returns as well.

Overall value: 74/100
<|_=00=_|>
Right from seeing the trailer in June, I had extremely high hopes for
this movie. What drew me to this film was the animation quality and the
animals they used; owls. Thankfully, the trailer did not reveal too
many details about the story, I love going into a movie not knowing
what to expect.

As for the film itself, I found it to be an extremely captivating and
magical experience, a similar experience that I had not felt since
seeing Avatar in December of '09. The animation was beyond top notch as
each audience member bare witness to the immense detail of the owls and
the environment. Each feather on the owls and each rain drop and spec
of dust from the environment was clearly visible in the film.

The cast chosen for the film couldn't have turned out better than it
did. The overall voice acting was fabulous and wouldn't have wanted any
other way. The perfect octaves, expressions and moods were used in each
line. Straying back to the previous paragraph slightly; most animated
movies leave most people guessing the actor who plays the voice of a
given actor. I, however, did not do this in this film. I was simply too
immersed into the film to really notice.

The music used in the movie was beautiful and majestic. Truly epic
scores of musical composure added so much to the film. You can tell the
music in a movie is great when you never truly notice it, not to say it
doesn't deserve its recognition. I merely mean that if you notice the
music in a movie, it simply stands out too much and becomes a
distraction. So having not noticed the music, I simply mean that the
music became one with the movie and the experience.

In the end, I left the theatre with a very familiar feeling that I had
not felt since I was a child. The feeling of classic Disney
storytelling. The feeling of a masterpiece in the making. Legend of the
Guardians is truly an epic film with a very rich plot and brilliant
characters
<|_=00=_|>
I never thought I would see a computer animated feature film with as
much attention to perfection as a Pixar film in my lifetime. This movie
was it. Just amazing!

Each frame a visual masterpiece. Movement choreographed like a perfect
ballet. Unimaginable detail in each filament on the owl's feathers.
Eyes glistening with soul. For gods sake even their irises dilating
with their heartbeat! 

The story was never dull for a moment. Its tempo kept gaining speed to
the end hurling me to the edge of my seat.

If you don't see this in 3D you have missed out on an amazing
experience. Enjoy :)
<|_=00=_|>
LEGENDS OF THE GUARDIANS; THE OWLS OF GA'HOOLE with the voices of Jim
Sturgess, Emily Barclay, Ryan Kwanten, Hugo Weaving, Helen Mirren and
Geoffrey Rush, directed by Zack Snyder. Rating: 7/10.

ALTHOUGH lacking in humor and quite violent for a film aimed at
youngsters, this visually dazzling 3D animated fantasy feature from
director Zack Snyder ("300" and "Watchmen") has the epic sweep and feel
of "Lord of the Rings".

Based on the first three books in Kathryn Lasky's bestselling series,
"The Guardians of Ga'Hoole", Snyder's film revolves around Soren
(voiced by Jim Sturgess), a young owl who has always been enchanted by
his father's stories about the Guardians of Ga'Hoole - an heroic and
mythical group of warriors who once fought to save the owl kingdom from
the evil Pure Ones. 

Soren dreams of one day joining the Guardians, but his jealous older
brother, Kludd (Ryan Kwanten), has no such noble notions.

When Soren and Kludd's bickering causes them to fall out of their
treetop home, the two are carried off by the Pure Ones and imprisoned
at the St. Aegolius Academy for Orphaned Owls. Here, they face a grim
future as either soldiers or slaves.

Kludd wants to be a soldier, but Soren and his new friend Gylfie (Emile
Barclay) escape with the help of a guard named Grimble (Hugo Weaving)
and set off on an arduous journey to the legendary city of Ga'Hoole,
where the old warrior Ezylryb (Geoffrey Rush) will train Soren in the
art of war. 

"Legends of the Guardians" is a rather serious affair and Snyder - not
surprisingly - brings a certain intensity to the many battle scenes
which dominate the second half of the film and feature plenty of slow
motion shots and much owl on owl violence. The movie is blessed with
superb voice acting from Sturgess, Helen Mirren, Anthony LaPaglia,
Weaving and, in particular, Geoffrey Rush, Of course, what really makes
it work are the stunning visuals. The exciting flying scenes -
reminiscent of those in "Avatar"- are quite breathtaking, and the shots
of lush, dark forests and vast seascapes are equally sumptuous.

Perhaps it might be a little scary for tots under seven, But "Legends
of the Guardians: The Owls of Ga'Hoole" is first class family
entertainment. The young audience I saw it with were spellbound from
beginning to end, and applauded when it was over. The film looks
marvelous in 3D, but I should imagine it looks pretty good in 2D as
well. GA.
<|_=00=_|>
I suppose this is that movie that's a third generation retelling of an
older more established fantasy settings and hero's journey. Which seems
kind of like retreading dead waters at this point, but hey throw some
owls in there and you got something fresh enough to justify a ninety
some minute movie. While on the surface having a cast composed almost
essentially of all owls seems a bit silly, and to some degree it still
is, but the movie carries itself in the right tone. The fact that
they're owls never sticks out to a negative and the fantasy aspects of
the story kick and carry the weight of the plot nice and properly.

On reflection there's a few things to like about this little movie. The
CG looks fantastic, the facial animations carry all the right emotions
and don't even get me started on the feather as each one acts as they
should wither their in the air or dancing through the rain all without
diving strait into the uncanny valley. The voice work has some charm
and believe it or not Hugo Weaving is not the villain in this movie, in
fact he has two separate roles in a bizarre double casting. Helen
Mirren has a nice mother/temptress run at things, and Jim Sturgess
finds that sweet spot between being a naive dreamer and headstrong
bravery. Furthermore the heavy handed emotional speeches that usually
make my ears bleed just a bit actually have some proper reserve behind
them, relying more on the power of the words more then the emotional
act behind them. And I will say this, although in about twenty minutes
of the movie you'll hear somewhere around fifteen fantasy words, one's
that have no relevance to the real world, but the movie never makes the
mistake of sticking around them long enough to where things just get
dry and confusing. It's kicked from one reel to the next, which kind of
works in its favor to some degree. You're never lost in this world and
the plot advanced fast enough that your brain never has the time to
throw up too many red flags and pull you right out of the story.

As far as negatives are concerned. The owls suffer from the same boring
over dramatic dull most fantasy stories suffer from in terms of plot.
In that everything boils down to the one righteous path or collective
taking arms against the bullying radical one. Essentially when broken
down the bad owls, the Pure Ones, really only seem to be into slavery,
kidnapping and training child soldiers and for all other purposes
ethnic genocide all aimed in the total commitment of just being evil
bastards. There's no real balance of purpose for the Pure Ones.
Furthermore on another note, you would think a pseudo fantasy heroes
journey would be all about the journey. Where each step for the main
character is filled with adventure and danger and perhaps even a lovely
maiden or two along the way. But this never really settles into that
sort of pattern, perhaps it because the owls have the advantage of
flying over those pesky foot dwelling creatures normally put on camera,
but our cast of heroes scale all the way to Mt Doom and back and only
break a sweat when the plot demands it, which is about three times
throughout the movie. Oh and although this is sort of a kids movie, the
standard betrayal has no real emotional resonance because its handled
more as a demand of the plot than a character turn not to mention if
you don't see these things coming I must assume you are either a bit of
a young ling or a recent victim of cranial intrusion.

In the end I'd equate this movie to something like The Dark Crystal or
Dragon Heart. Those kind of over zealous fantasy pseudo epics that have
more than a few open wounds but have enough charm to warrant a viewing.
I'll admit I enjoyed myself. While there's not a whole lot of new thins
brought to the table and I can't help but feel I'm missing out on more
than a few things for not having looked into the source materials, what
is there hits all the right notes for this kind of fantasy setting and
there are a handful of nice idea's that even Tolken never got into
well. In that there's a bit of subtext about the cost of heroism and
how much it hurts to do the right thing even when its what needs to be
done, and I quite liked those aspects. Although I would caution the
more casual movie viewer as this movie asks you to buy into a fair
amount of fantasy tropes and once again there are only five types of
characters owls, a single snake, some crows and some bats and one ratty
looking mole like thing.

One last thing, speaking from a 3D viewing perspective. It's actually
well done here. The unique perspective give the aerial combat a nice
visceral punch and the ever sprawling backgrounds look deep and distant
giving the movie the feel of a huge sprawling world. So there is some
value to the price jump between the 2D and 3D if your into that sort of
thing.
<|_=00=_|>
Legend of the Guardians: Owls of Ga'Hoole surprised me. I was expecting
a childish movie, but this in fact is for a much more mature audience.
Snyder stays in lieu of his previous films with his infamous slow
motion effect. The visual effects are absolutely dazzling, it nearly
looks real down to the feathers. The story centers around a young owl
named Soren (voiced by Jim Sturgess). Soren believes in these
"Guardians of Ga'Hoole, which are basically owls who fight against the
brainwashed soldiers of St. Aggie's. St. Aggies is an "orphanage" where
Soren and his brother Kludd (voiced by Ryan Kwanten)are kidnapped to
become workers. While there, he meets Gyflie, a much younger female owl
(voiced by Emily Barclay). The owls are "moonblinked" which is
basically when someone is brainwashed. Kludd, seeking to be brave,
joins St. Aggies and goes under the wing of Nyra (voiced by Helen
Mirren). Soren and Gyflie eventually escape, to contact The Guardians
to help them fight the owls at St. Aggies.

I thought it was good for the family, certainly, if you are a Snyder
fan, then you may enjoy this. I have not read the books, but thoroughly
enjoyed the movie. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie. It might not be 100% accord to the books but that
doesn't matter, the movie is fantastic, now if you liked the movie, go
ahead and read the books, you won't be disappointed.

If you young children are easy impressive, you might not like them
asking you "but why is the pretty bird doing those bad things?" and
stuff like that, just imagine an epic movie, you know: knights, kings,
queens and battles, but for children and adults alike, it depends on
how much your kids know about epic stories and the implications of war.

The visual designs are awesome and the music is beautiful, it is a
great story.
<|_=00=_|>
This was absolutely fantastic.

The storyline, although portraying a certain adventure-y theme that
we've seen in countless anims, is utterly fantastic. The awesome
animations added with digital 3d only enhance the experience, with the
slo-mo scenes and native music within those scenes furthering the
experience.The amazing attention to detail just makes it better. You
can see every droplet of rain, every particle of dust. Especially in
the slo mo moments, it is just fantastic. I, myself, was utterly
engrossed in the storyline. Although there was more violence than what
i would have expected in a G rated movie (what can you expect from the
guy that directed 300 xD) it still is a great movie, and i absolutely
cant wait for the sequel(s?) that the movie hinted at towards the end.
In my list of best animated movies of all time, this rockets up past
avatar (thats like semi-animated) to my number one favorite movie of
all time...
