
At 65 years old, Michael Douglas can still command the movie screen. In
recent years, his choice of parts has looked somewhat desperate to me.
Solitary Man got little publicity and is playing largely art houses
around the country. And it is quite a film. It is very much Douglas at
his aging best. His character is true to the Neil Diamond song by the
same name, a version of which is sung (badly) over the opening credits.

Featuring an all-star ensemble cast, Solitary Man centers on Ben Kalmen
(Douglas), a formerly rich, highly-successful "honest" New York car
dealer who pulled off a Bernie Madoff-level scam, got caught,
prosecuted, and lost all of his money and most of his respect in the
ensuing years-long legal battle. He did avoid jail, however. The movie
opens before the scandal and 6 ½ years before the current day, with the
always-cocky Ben (think Tom Sanders in Disclosure) going in for his
annual physical. His long-time doctor "doesn't like his EKG" and orders
major diagnostic tests for him. Flash forward to now.

Ben is divorced from his wife, Nancy (Susan Sarandon in a luscious
cameo); living with a rich younger woman, Jordan (Mary-Louise Parker)
and her daughter, Allyson, (the very talented Imogen Poots); trying to
get a new car dealership approved by the local city council; and
chasing women successfully all over the Boroughs. This 60+-year-old has
all the moves, and they still work on younger women. He hops from bed
to bed while milking his live-in and trying to re-capture the success
he exudes from every pore but without the money or the friends he once
had. Ben is living a nightmare. He is trying to bury the images with
meaningless sex and a carefree, live-for-the-moment attitude that is
vaguely reminiscent of his roles in films like Wall Street, A Perfect
Murder and Wonder Boys.

When Jordan gets ill, she commands Ben to take Allyson to her college
interview at Ben's alma mater, where he has been a major donor with his
name on the library and everything. Here, the film hits its stride. Ben
doesn't want to be there but the memories flood back, including those
of his first meeting with Nancy. He leaves Allyson to do what she wants
while he befriends a young college student (played by Adventureland's
Jesse Eisenberg), becoming a mentor in the process. He also gets
reacquainted with his college buddy, Jimmy Merino (Danny DeVito with
whom Douglas has done countless films and with whom he roomed as a
young thespian), an underachieving good guy who never left the college
town and who owns a small café near campus. The very best moments
involve Ben and Allyson; don't miss them.

Let's just say the story evolves from here with Ben's life spiraling
downhill, all of his own doing. Nothing has been the same since the day
his doctor told him he might have a serious heart problem. Everything
came up smelling like roses until then and it's been all smelly
fertilizer since. Even his only good relationship - with his married
daughter, Susan, who loves her dad, listens to his problems and helps
where she can  begins to decay. Played by The Office's Jenna Fischer
in a performance that was a revelation, Susan doesn't hold any grudge
about the divorce or dad's highly publicized fall. But he even does her
wrong.

There are several questions the audience wants answered. Can Ben be
redeemed? When he hits rock bottom, will anyone be there? Will his
heart give way before that? Will he commit suicide, die of natural
causes, or be saved? Co-writers Brian Koppelman and David Levien direct
their first major movie after having penned films like Rounders,
Runaway Jury, and Ocean's Thirteen (all favorites of mine), and they do
so with aplomb. This is an exceptional, if depressing, independent film
that shows that Douglas can still act, entice, entertain, and engage.
<|_=00=_|>
Michael Douglas' character is not a nice guy. Things are not going well
for this guy at all. He's a pig. And he looks like hell, disheveled,
unkempt, unshaven, and -- the worst thing -- OLD! And the best thing is
that Douglas lets us see it all -- every year of wear and tear.

In short, it's one of the best performances of Michael Douglas' career.

The movie revolves entirely around Douglas' character. I often don't
like movies where the main character is unlikable, but there was
something about this guy, warts and all, that drew me in. His level of
denial? His former success? His ability to love and behave badly
simultaneously? True, the supporting cast is great. Susan Sarandon,
Danny DeVito, the always wonderful Mary-Louise Parker. But it's also
true that they don't have all that much to do. Douglas is in just about
every scene. And he pulls it off.

The one iffy part? The ending. Not the very very end, which I liked,
but the place Douglas' character was left. Just a bit of a surprise.

But see it for yourself. It's worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
This Hollywood movie might have worked better as a rough-hewn indie
picture with more particularized locations and more unexpected faces,
but it has two big things to recommend it: the writing, and a wonderful
performance by Michael Douglas as the titular loner, a fallen used car
magnate, a seducer of young women and a man near sixty who's run out of
options. Douglas wears this charming sleazebag's skin with breathtaking
ease. The settings don't really matter too much (they're pretty
generic), and the excellent cast, which includes Susan Sarandon, Sarah
Louise Parker, Danny De Vito, and Jesse Eisenberg, is a little too
familiar. But none of that matters because Douglas is so good. The
noirish aspects of the story creep up on you very gradually, and you go
from not caring about the protagonist to caring just when you know you
should have long given up on him. This is the writing and Douglas's
performance working together to create a man who is reprehensible in
interesting and perhaps universal ways.

Ben Kalmen is a wise guy who needs to learn a lesson. You would think
he had already learned a big one. He was a car dealer in the Tri-State
area so successful he was once on the cover of Forbes Magazine. Then he
ran a scam against the car companies, taking profits from cars he
hadn't sold. He was arrested, he squandered a fortune defending
himself, he paid a huge fine and all but went to jail. He is disgraced.
All of his powerful friends have abandoned him. He is also broke and
divorced. Six years ago as we see in a preview sequence, his doctor
found heart irregularities that might be dangerous and wanted to have
tests run. Ben ran from that instead -- to bars where he began picking
up and bedding young women in an effort to cheat time and mother
nature. This is a game that has worn thin, but he isn't prepared to
give it up.

When the action begins he's pushed by his very wealthy girlfriend
Jordan (Parker) to take her daughter Allyson (Imogen Poots) up to his
alma mater for an admissions interview. He has given a lot of money to
the school in the past and still has influence with the dean. He
doesn't want to go, but he goes. Allyson doesn't want him to come, but
he comes. There's mention of her having had a drinking problem. She
puts on a great pose of sophistication and independence. And then over
the weekend he gets her drunk and seduces her. He also makes friends
with a sophomore, Daniel Cheston, whom he calls Cheston (Eisenberg).
With both young people Ben indulges a penchant for playing the
worldly-wise sex adviser. He tells Allyson how to get her young men to
satisfy her sexually (that's how he begins his seduction) and he tells
Cheston how to get a girl. Later he betrays Cheston's trust.

Once Ben sleeps with Alllyson on that trip, bad things happen, very bad
things. His attempt to overcome doubts in high places and start a new
car dealership is gradually shot down. He can't even get a job as a car
salesman. He is behind in his rent; he borrows money from his serious
daughter Susan (Jenna Fischer). He runs out of money and goes to his
old college friend Jimmy (De Vito) for help. The wrath of his
girlfriend Jordan turns out to be very dangerous.

Douglas' role as Ben Kalman touches on aspects of his Gordon Gecko of
Wall Street and Grady Tripp of Wonder Boys, which is to say he is well
cast, not that this is a repetition of those roles or performances. Ben
is as lacking in a sense of human values as Gecko, and his life is in
as much disarray as Tripp's. Some find Ben much more shocking than
either. So much the better. Douglas takes on this role fearlessly and
it leads him along familiar trajectories into a new place. Ben is a
human being. He is a man more adept at the material than the moral
who's dealing with his fears the best way he can. He is short on wisdom
but not on bravery. His grandson adores him. Like the dad in the indie
surprise flick Daddy Longlegs, he is the dangerous, unreliable adult
who is magical and fun. He is the man young adults may need along the
way for inspiration and then must discard when they realize some
essential parts of the picture, the consistent set of values, was
lacking.

Douglas' thrusting intonations here become the embodiment of the (once)
successful car salesman. Ben is selling a materialist and sensualist's
program for defying time. Perhaps not enough time goes in the film to
establishing Ben's former good side. It's a little hard to understand
how his ex-wife Nancy (Sarandon) can remain so understanding, not to
mention his daughter Susan's rallying when she has once given up on
him. De Vito's still-loyal old friend is an idealized and simplistic
figure. And yes, it would be better if Douglas, too, were not so
familiar to us. But the movie still succeeds in concocting a man and a
situation that have much that are fresh about them. Ben is a
wonderfully complex creation, charismatic and charming and sexy and yet
very clearly also a jerk. And in playing him, Michael Douglas shows
himself once again to be a very good and very brave actor, for more so
than people tend to realize. Koppelman and Leviean have written for
Steven Soderbergh, who co-produced; Leviean was the writer here, and
his collaborating on the directing seems to have worked well for the
coherence of this well-made film.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is unlike any you are likely to see this year or the next
few years. It seems somewhat like a French or Euro remake in that the
story revolves around a man who "flaunts convention" and sleeps with
any young woman who pleases him, even though his family (ex-wife, adult
offspring) are well aware of his bedroom adventures and taunt him about
his behavior.

His current girlfriend, who apparently knows something of and tolerates
his loose standards, presses him to go with her daughter to a college
admission interview over a weekend out of town. When he seduces the
daughter, it is a shocking turn of events that marks this film as
strikingly different. When she reveals the blatant transgression, the
shocks continue. (Am I in Paris here?) So much for the first third or
so of the film, which really amounts to the set-up. Disaster follows
Michael Douglas' character around like a bad haircut. His chance for a
comeback in business, and life, is squashed by the influential
relations of his now ex-girlfriend and he descends farther into a world
only he would want to inhabit.

With a more traditional storyline, this is where he would either become
some sort of psycho killer or pull himself up and out to rebuild his
life. Nothing doing here. There is a lot more down and self degradation
to follow. He's on a mission.

I was wondering what could trigger not just a moral collapse, but that
of a human being who, were are told, was one day the toast of the
business world in New York and made so many millions that he had a
college library named after him. You see, Ben Kalman, the main
character, behaves like someone with no moral backbone at all, someone
who either knows no limits or is bent on self destruction.

Fearing that the audience couldn't figure this thing out for
themselves, the movie serves an explanation up complete, as if Ben
Kalman, victim of himself, could somehow suddenly understand why he was
doing what he was doing and consider the idea of change. All too pat,
and not believable to boot. We are made to, forced to, care about a
deeply flawed character and given an explanation that just doesn't hold
water. If he were capable of this level of creepiness, it seems very
unlikely that he would have risen to such heights and been loved and
adored by so many. Obviously, there must have been some deep character
flaw in him all along, but we have no idea what it might have been.

Otherwise decent people do, every day, go off the deep end. Some people
commit acts of unkindness, even violence, for which friends and family
can never forgive. How can one bit of unfortunate news about possible
health problems send a man so far away from his grounding on planet
earth and cause him to ruin everything in his life? I don't know, which
is one reason, although this is a startlingly original movie with good
to great acting all around, that I ultimately don't care about it and
wish I could forget it.

There was one truly wise scene with DeVito discussing why he never
chases young women that was almost worth the price of admission.

Doug Terry
<|_=00=_|>
"You can't cheat death, Benny. Nobody can, no matter how many
19-year-olds you talk into your bed."

The topic of the mid-life crisis and men losing their identity and
sense of self as they get older has been fertile ground for movies in
the past, and Solitary Man is another entry into that sub-genre. 

It's a drama with slight comedic elements. Michael Douglas stars as a
once powerful man who lost his wealth and position when he was caught
running a scam. He fills that void with ill-advised trysts with young
women and depending emotionally on his exasperated daughter. When his
last-ditch attempt to regain his past career is derailed because of
another poor decision, he has to confront what his life has become, his
own self- destructive behavior, and how his choices have affected the
people around him. This isn't a ground-breaking story, but it's
certainly watchable and occasionally emotionally involving. 

The real reason to see Solitary Man is the cast. Along with Douglas,
the movie stars Mary-Louise Parker, Imogen Poots, Danny DeVito, Susan
Sarandon, Jesse Eisenberg, and Jenna Fisher. Some of the parts are
bigger than others (I really wish Sarandon would have been a larger
part of the movie), but fans of any of them will want to see this. 

For everyone else, Solitary Man is a movie you should watch if it
piques your interest. Will you be adding it to the list of your
all-time favorites? Probably not. It's definitely worth ninety minutes
on a Sunday afternoon, though.
<|_=00=_|>
Solitary Man tells the story of Ben Kalmen (Michael Douglas in a good
performance), a formerly successful car dealer now on a downward
spiral. Now close to 60 years old, Ben seems to be living a sort of
late identity crisis, chasing younger women and trying desperately to
start a new business while his personal life goes down the drain as
quickly as his financial situation.

The direction and writing, by Brian Koppelman and David Levien, takes a
bittersweet approach to this story, chronicling the events while
elegantly letting us decide what we think of Ben. In this respect, I
felt they were honest and not manipulative. Unfortunately, this will
also make it hard for some people to relate to the subject, unless they
have contemplated those situations themselves. 

The story is quite simple at its heart and tackles issues that are
becoming more and more prevalent in our society. That is, we are
constantly told we deserve it all, we deserve it now and we deserve it
forever. Ben (implicitly and explicitly) would like to be the person he
used to be, has a hard time redefining facets of his life. 

Viewers will have different takes on Ben, ranging from admirable to
pathetic but he is never demonized nor sainted in the movie.
Unfortunately, while the themes are strongly driven throughout the
film, the story itself looks more like a series of anecdotes, some of
which are not stringed in the most elegant way.

The whole cast around Douglas (quite an ensemble) is excellent, except
Susan Sarandon who is surprisingly bland and not up to her usually high
standards. I felt her characters had few scenes but they were key to
invest the audience and something was lacking there. 

The film's ending is great and more food for thoughts but overall,
Solitary Man falls short of being a classic due to a few writing
issues.
<|_=00=_|>
Solitary Man hit home for me in a few ways. First of all, the stellar
cast was in fact...stellar. Michael Douglas is in top form with a role
he's familiar with on screen. Michael's character grows on us as a
wise, go-get tum, never-mind-the-bollix attitude that we love to see in
ourselves. Deep down however, it's apparent he's reaching for his
youth. He befriends a young character (Jesse Eisenberg) advising him
about college, love and zest for life, but when things begin to fall
apart in his own life, he's forced himself to finally make a decision
to face the challenges of his own not so youthful life. Only Michael
Douglas could pull this off IMHO. He carries his character in such a
way that we still care about him, even after his rather devious
actions. The film really could be considered a vehicle for Michael,
being in almost every scene, yet there stands Danny DeVito, Susan
Sarandon, Marie Louise Parker, Jesse Eisenberg, etc to support this
fine film.
<|_=00=_|>
Solitary Man (2009)

Michael Douglas is a wonder in this film. You could by a cynic and say
that the arrogant, energetic, womanizing, aging man here is just
Michael Douglas, and that it's not acting at all.

But that's unfair, because he pulls it off with such responsive ease,
it's a wonder. Not that he's a likable person. In fact, that's one of
the things to get used to, having to watch a lecherous old man push and
connive his way into a night with one young woman after another. It's
actually the director and writer to blame, here, because this is a
tired and abusive theme. As if all these old timers are really so
irresistible !? (I'm thinking Clint Eastwood, here, too). Sorry, dudes,
but these young women have much better meat to hunker down with. I
mean, the real Douglas and the real Eastwood have that star power thing
that might be true in real life--I can imagine wanting to say I slept
with Michael Douglas the rest of my life, maybe. Maybe. 

But Michael Douglas plays a big time car salesman here, not himself,
and he's already an aging loser by the time the movie begins, convicted
of felonies, estranged with most of his family and previous life.
That's the essence of the title, that this once connected man with the
world before him was increasingly alone. And there seemed to be little
he could do about it.

As aggravating as all this is--you don't ever feel sorry for him--it's
a sharply witty screenplay and the editing is fast, the acting first
rate. In fact, it's in many ways a good movie. It's a contrivance, for
sure, and pushes too hard, but in the same ways, so did "The Blind
Side" with the extraordinary acting of Sandra Bullock. So we have here
a worthwhile movie despite all its flaws, some of them pretty obvious.
And Danny DeVito is his usual self, well cast (hate to say) as a deli
owner.

But there is no escaping a larger point or two. First of all, Douglas
is a predator who seems to get away with it all, which is sort of okay,
but his former wife, played in a brief role by Susan Sarandon, has to
take on that most horrible or roles--the ever forgiving wife, waiting
for her man despite his really extensive selfishness and downright
meanness. And then there is the nearly impossible scenario of the
daughter of his current girlfriend suddenly losing all resistance to
the man. But I say too much. This daughter, by the way, is played with
more artistry than her role probably required by an impressive Imogen
Poots. She's worth keeping a watch on.

But Michael Douglas is the bread, the butter, and the dessert here. He
appears in every scene, and his acting is perfect. And his character
does represent a problem for older men (and women) losing some kind of
sexual aura (and ability). And so the man copes, in his own excessive
way. Brace yourself for the other stuff, and watch him roll.
<|_=00=_|>
"Solitary Man" clearly is one of those some will like or hate, as it's
a complex character study that proves most in life will not give up
their vices. As people will always be stubborn and not change their
ways. The film also is made watchable by having an all star cast.
Micheal Douglas shines as Ben Kalmen a 60 year old man who's complex as
it's clear he's going thru a midlife crisis.

The film begins with Ben receiving some bad health news then it flashes
ahead six and one half years. And it's clear that this has changed
Ben's lifestyle and his personal dealings with his job and family.
Ben's now divorced from his wife Nancy(Susan Sarandon)and his
relationship with his daughter Susan(Jenna Fischer) is strained. Ben's
only satisfaction is his romancing and dating of Jordan(Mary-Louise
Parker) an elegant and sophisticated single mother who's attractive and
sexy daughter Allyson(Imogen Poots)becomes a conquest of Ben's. That's
right when he accompanies Allyson away on a college trip he beds this
18 year old. Also on the trip Ben parties up with a fellow campus
student(Jesse Eisenberg). Clearly Ben is trying to live his teenage
years all over.

Kalmen can only dream of his past success as a high rolling car magnate
in which he threw away due to his crooked dealings. As his complex
behavior continues his only comfort is found when he reconnects with
Jimmy(Danny Devito) an old school friend who offers Ben a job at his
diner. This is a way that Ben can pay off his debts. Slowly you as the
viewer see it was just meant for this man to be complex as you have to
pay your debts to life and society when you screw up. And clearly as
proved with this film when one is in dire straits vices and
rediscovering youth is a pleasure of relief. Still you accept the hard
ways and see some people don't want to change their ways only you as
the viewer root for redemption for complex characters like Ben Kalmen.
Overall this was a complex and touching feel good performance from
Michael Douglas.
<|_=00=_|>
Long, pointless, rambling movie starring a wizened and disturbingly
wrinkled Michael Douglas, as a relentless philanderer who decides to
pursue and bed countless young women after his doctor tells him there
may be something wrong with his heart.  The hours slowly stumble by as
we are subjected to unsavoury images of Douglas 'seducing' countless
women, in a bid to show off his 'technique' garnered from years of
sexual experience.  As expected, his life ends up in tatters when he
can't find work, can't pay the rent, is forbidden contact with his
grandson, and is turned down by a woman.  Not really sure what one's
meant to make of the anticlimactic, obvious, and rather lazy ending
other than that maybe he finally realizes the shallowness of his ways. 
Frankly I didn't care what happened to him in the end and felt it would
have been more exciting if his heart had exploded in glorious
Technicolour. 
