
Precursor: I just moved back into town two days ago and had made plans
to see one of my old friends tonight. I did not want to see this movie,
and wouldn't have under any other circumstances but my friend really
wanted to and the tickets were free so I went. 

Review itself: This is of no disrespect to Jonah Hill, his fashion of
humor or his fans at all, but I, personally have grown tired of what
seems to now be a plethora of wanna be Hangover and Superbad's. (The
success of Project X seriously worries me...). Anyways, having that
mind set approaching tonight and considering the fact I didn't laugh
once during the 21 JS trailer, green or red band... I really wasn't
expecting all that much out of the experience aside from leaving the
house and catching up with a buddy. 

But damn. 

I honestly thought this movie was great. Yes, there were parts I wasn't
fond of... a bit of the dialogue seemed to me to be vulgar strictly for
the sake of being vulgar... there was the usual expected Jonah Hill
trademarked myriad of penis jokes and one extremely unnecessary shock
gag but the majority of the movie was, to me, surprisingly
satirical/smart/relevant in today's society, self-aware, and
situationally hilarious. Even the dumbest and most profane of this
movie's jokes and clichés seemed to know that they were such and were
given the proper comedic build up/context to at least warrant a
chuckle. This movie had some surprisingly clever dialogue throughout
and some of the best supporting characters I've seen in recent comedies
(Ice Cube, The Principal, etc..) What really stood out to me though was
the editing. 21 Jump Street features some of the most awkwardly
humorous camera shot transitions, scene changes and music integration.
Despite it's faults, I found this to be a damn hard movie to hate, and
would recommend it to anyone looking for a fun weekend movie.

All in all... genuine, clever, vulgar yet respectable comedy with some
heart. 

IMO a very good career move for both Hill and Tatum. 

Stoked for the sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
Buddy cop movies have been losing their waves. The thing is that all
the buddy cop movies after Rush Hour 1 have been either too dull to
comprehend or just mildly interesting and could just pass as a movie
you've seen just to mark the register that you've seen it.

Based on a TV series of the same name which aired on Fox Network
between 1987 and 1991, the series focuses on a squad of
youthful-looking undercover police officers investigating crimes in
high schools, colleges, and other teenage venues. The 2012 movie
adaptation also had the former cast of the series; Johnny Depp and
Peter DeLuise play a minor role.

Written by Jonah Hill who also starred in it, 21 is a movie that suits
a cinema viewing with a box of popcorn at your side. Hill's performance
was on a mild okay side, but the main cheese in the movie was Channing
Tatum, who transcended from a jock to a nerd and still maintained his
persona. I guess the most fun I had was when I saw Ice  Cube talking
to the duo.

The movie was directed by Phil Lord and Chris Miller (Cloudy with a
Chance of Meatballs). The directors and writers made sure you didn't
have to go see the original to get the full taste of 21, as the film
made do of the current pop culture in our time and how ironic and dumb
it looks to make a fun movie and enough juice left to make another.

21 makes fun of everything in its path, even down to drugs, and how we
kept expecting things to blow up and they just don't. The jokes keeps
coming in from every corner making you laugh although.

The high moments in the movie was whenever the duo were together, the
low moment was when they were apart.

The plot had the duo Hill and Tatum as Morton Schmidt and Greg Jenko
(respectively), get deployed as undercover cops to a high school to
bust a drug ring, and everything you'd expect to happen, doesn't.
That's the fun of the movie.

All in all, why are you wasting time reading this go watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
So if you like Jonah Hill and comedies with really great cameo
appearances, I think you would definitely like this film.

I must admit I expected this to be at the same standard as maybe The
Change-Up or The Hangover Part II which weren't terrible movies, but
they weren't the funniest movies I have seen either. This movie is more
on par with The Hangover (the first installment), Superbad and
Anchorman.

The chemistry between Jonah Hill and Channing Tatum is brilliant, and
it's nice to see Tatum in something other than his standard rom-com or
"rom" setting. I was already laughing from the first scene, which is
generally hard to do and the humour was the correct balance of wit and
slapstick. There were actually a lot more clever jokes than I expected
and there were some scenes were I couldn't even control my laughter in
a full cinema.

All in all, I'm not saying this movie is for everyone but the way I
would tell you to see it is if you like Jonah Hill's ridiculous
dialogue with sometimes unnecessary swears and you have no expectations
of it being anything like the original TV show, I would definitely
recommend this one! Best comedy film I've seen at the cinema in 2012.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never seen the original 21 Jump Street series so I can't
compare. I had only watched the trailer and thought it looked alright,
but wasn't planning on paying to see it. I received free advance
screening passes to see it last night and I am so glad! It is honestly
the funniest movie I've seen in a long time. I usually don't laugh out
loud but this movie had me (and the rest of the audience) laughing at
least every ten seconds.

Who knew Channing Tatum could be so funny? He really steals the show
half the movie with his great comedic timing. The back-and-forth that
he and Jonah Hill have is so refreshing. They have clear comedic
chemistry and play off of each other very well. The dialogue is fresh
and hilarious. Another standout actor was Dave Franco. I am a big fan
of him and have always found him funny, and he really shines in this
movie. Overall, every actor played off the next very well. It's clear
they had a great time making this movie.

I can't recommend this enough. If you want a good laugh, then SEE THIS.
It has clever, outrageous comedy and some great acting. There was a
great cameo surprise towards the end that had the entire theater
gasping and laughing. This is one of the few movie experiences I've had
where the entire audience enjoyed themselves and laughed out loud, even
clapped at some parts. Go see it, you will not regret it!
<|_=00=_|>
21 Jump Street sounds like a terrible idea on paper: a big screen
adaptation of an ABC TV series from the 80s. Was anyone really
clamoring for that? Was there any reason to adapt that into a feature
film in 2012? It sounds like just another example of Hollywood cashing
in on an established franchise, akin to the decision to make a movie
based on the board game Battleship. As it turns out 21 Jump Street is
barely an adaptation, and it isn't just an excuse to capitalize on an
old concept. Directors Phil Lord and Chris Miller, the team behind the
brilliant and absurd Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs, use the fact
that nobody is too invested in the source material to their advantage,
subverting all expectations for what a movie like this would be. The
result is a smart, exciting and often hilarious action-comedy with real
stakes and a surprising amount of heart.

Jonah Hill and Channing Tatum star as Schmidt and Jenko respectively,
two rookie cops who went to high school together, though belonging to
different social circles. Jenko was the popular jock while Schmidt was
the unpopular nerd. When they realize each has something the other one
needs, a friendship sparks and they become partners. After a failed
drug bust, they're reassigned to a special division when their police
station decides to "revive a cancelled program from the 80s" (get it?).
They're sent to a local high school undercover as students to
investigate and bring down a drug ring. Despite identical titles, I
don't know if we can even call this an adaptation of the show. While
the TV show was primarily a drama, the film is essentially a satire of
movies and shows like 21 Jump Street, fully aware of all of the clichés
of its genre. 

Writer Michael Bacall (Scott Pilgrim vs. The World) seems to have
realized nobody really cared about a 21 Jump Street movie and instead
decided to make something totally different. Early on, in a scene of
dialogue that may as well have been delivered directly into the camera,
a character explains that there aren't any original ideas these days
and so we're stuck rehashing old concepts from the 80s to make a quick
buck. In this way and many others, the movie is all about subverting
your expectations, which based on this premise are probably very low.
It's anything but a lazy cash grab, taking everything you know about
buddy cop films and turning it on its head. It embraces the stupidity
of its concept too, by constantly acknowledging that Hill and Tatum are
way too old to be posing as high school kids, or by having Ice Cube
play the stereotypical black police captain from every 80s movie ever,
and then outright acknowledging that. In a hilarious early scene
Schmidt and Jenko's roles are reversed, with the jock forced to pose as
the nerd and the nerd posing as the jock. 21 Jump Street thrives on the
unexpected.

Many were initially unsure how Channing Tatum would perform, as he is
an actor who has never headlined in any major comedies before. While
Jonah Hill is without a doubt the star, having had tons of experience
in films like Superbad and Knocked Up, Tatum does a fine job as well
and the two actors have great chemistry together. In movies like this
with two main leads, the rapport between them can make or break the
film. With 21 Jump Street, it absolutely makes it.

That's ultimately why the movie works as well as it does. Any
successful comedy needs real stakes. Otherwise, it just feels like a
series of Saturday Night Live sketches with no real purpose. A few
years ago, Superbad was extremely successful not just for being a goofy
and raunchy comedy, but also for having a believable high school
friendship at its core. Similarly, 21 Jump Street works because the
friendship between its protagonists feels real, and as a result there
are real emotional stakes to go along with the satire. Driving this
silly, raunchy comedy is a truly interesting story about popularity and
friendship in high school, and about how you might act differently if
you could go back as an adult. It's easily the funniest comedy in well
over a year, but it's not just a vehicle for jokes: 21 Jump Street
tells a great story, too.

Phil Lord and Chris Miller seem to love surprising us. As with Cloudy
with a Chance of Meatballs, 21 Jump Street is a movie nobody expected
to be great. Its brilliance lies in the fact that it knows all of your
complaints ahead of time. Think it sounds like a cheap cash crab based
on an 80s property? They make a joke about that. Think Jonah Hill and
Channing Tatum are too old to play high school kids? They make a joke
about that too. It's extremely clever and always two steps ahead of the
audience. But what really stands out about 21 Jump Street is that it's
not just an enjoyable and hilarious time at the theater, it also tells
a genuinely interesting and emotionally compelling story, developing
its characters in a way you probably wouldn't anticipate from a raunchy
high school comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite all the hype, I'm sad to report that 21 Jump Street, the new
action comedy based on the 1987 TV series, just isn't very funny. My
problem with it, is that Jonah Hill's 'Morton Schmidt' and Channing
Tatum's 'Greg Jenko' are so over the top as cops, that you cannot take
most of it very seriously at all.

For example, when Jenko can't remember his Miranda warnings, or even
worse, when Jenko fires his gun in the park, after tackling a bad guy,
these type of things would probably lead to immediate dismissal from
the force in real life. And what about, after being expressly
prohibited from serving alcohol to minors, the bumbling duo go ahead
and serve up drinks at the 'undercover' party, anyway?; not to mention
the confiscated marijuana they take from the police property room
place, without authorization.

The joke is supposed to be that in reality Schmidt and Jenko are really
glorified fraternity members, who just happen to have jobs as police
officers. Where I could definitely buy a bunch of 'loose cannon'
fraternity members in a film like 'Animal House', where one demented
group is pitted against a 'straight' one, it doesn't really work in the
police setting, since as stated above, improprieties are simply not
tolerated.

While a good deal of the humor of '21 Jump Street' is juvenile in
nature, on one occasion it veers into the area of being quite vile.
This is near film's end when the bad guy is castrated and somehow,
we're ask to laugh when viewing the scene of his detached member. No
it's not funny and I hope word gets around that this is the kind of
gross 'humor', Hill and his fellow scenarists are trying to peddle.

No need to recount all the details of the plot. Suffice it to say, that
Schmidt and Jenko are on a mission to take down assorted bad guys who
have been selling a new 'designer drug' in the school. It's your
typical buddy movie where Schmidt is the nerd with a brain who can help
the intellectually challenged Jenko, and Jenko is the jock with a
powerhouse punch who can bring the socially inept Schmidt, out of his
shell.

Actually, it's the bad guys, who really keep the story moving along.
There's 'Eric', the eco-friendly big man on campus who moonlights as a
drug dealer, and his supplier, Mr. Walters, a physical education
teacher, whose goofy demeanor masks a huge anger management problem. To
top it off, an assorted bunch of nasties, consisting of bikers and gang
members, led by the menacing 'Domingo', lend an air of verisimilitude,
not found in the antics of the principals, Jenko and Schmidt.

Occasionally, there are a few amusing bits in '21 Jump' including
trucks filled with gasoline that fail to explode as well as some funny
hallucinations which we get to see, when the protagonists are forced to
take drugs in order not to blow their cover. But on the whole, Jonah
Hill and co-writer Michael Bacall's frat-boy humor, lacks subtlety and
relies on low-level slapstick routines, to get by. At this point,
America is so desperate for something humorous in the movies these
days, that a mediocre exercise such as this, is hailed as a comic
masterpiece!
<|_=00=_|>
The TV series of 21 Jump Street is always remembered as one of Johnny
Depp's early performances. The concept is a bit interesting. At first
glance, this movie looks like it's just another mediocre raucous
comedy, but it turns out to be a clever one. It's quite a surprise. It
stays loyal to its roots except it added some raunchiness and slapstick
humor to the story. It's a new kind of 21 Jump Street that is much more
fun.

I'm not saying it's better than the TV series though. Both are pretty
interesting but this one is definitely aiming as a comedy. The film is
just crazy stuff with crazy characters living in an absurd setting. The
original premise remains but with some buddy comedy elements, and
raunchy and slapstick humor. Surprisingly, it works better to the plot.
The humor is clever and quite hilarious. These jokes are greatly
executed by the stars. Jonah Hill is always a brilliant comedian.
Channing Tatum finally plays a none bland character. His chemistry with
Hill shines to the film. While the others, Ice Cube hams it up a little
but he can provide some laughs. Rob Riggle is just being Rob Riggle.
Dave Franco's role here kind of reminds me of his role in Fright Night
but he's pretty good with it.

The direction is snappy and stylish. The action is fun but I don't
think anybody cares about that. The main point of this film is High
School and the relationship between Schmidt and Jenko. It shows how the
new high school turned their lives upside down. They can't stop playing
with their antics on their mission. There is a drama between them. Most
of it played as a joke but the heart is always there.

All turns out to be pretty well in this film even with all the changes
and the absurdity. It's smart, sweet, hilarious, and fun. The fans of
the TV series may still get a surprise while they miss the none mad
Captain Jenko and the charms of the show. This film is too crazy and
absurd but in a clever way. I haven't enjoyed a comedy like this in a
while. 21 Jump Street is undeniably fun and it's probably one of the
best comedies of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie seems to be confused as to whether it was supposed to be an
action movie or a comedy and fails to achieve either. It isn't really
very funny at all and it drags too much to be exciting. It has other
problems as well. 

The jokes try to hard to be hip and end up being just plays on
stereotypes. For example, in a misguided attempt to look cool one of
the characters punches a guy for being nerdy. The victim mistakenly
believes he was punched because he is black and gay which makes the cop
look uncool. In another example, throughout the movie the head of the
jump street program acts like a stereotypical bad tempered black cop,
even calling himself that. It is vaguely amusing the first time, but
the next umpteen times it gets a little lame as do the frequent jokes
about the guys not looking like teenagers. The visual and verbal humor
are like this through the whole movie. 

The movie portrays alcohol and drug use as a funny joke. It shows
scenes of the cops high on the supposedly deadly drug they are supposed
to be in high school stopping. It shows them buying booze for an
underage party and it's supposed to be funny because they have to use
false IDs. It shows them stealing marijuana from the evidence lockup to
share with the kids. I know it's a comedy not a message movie, but this
is just not funny. To top it off, they don't even get reprimanded for
any of the illegal things they do from giving drugs to minor to
engaging in a high speed chase on a freeway, to reckless discharge of
firearms, to taking further police actions when technically fired. 

The action is boring. The interminably long scenes of bicycle, car, and
limousine chases do not even begin to liven up this bomb. They are not
interesting. 

The juvenile behavior the two leads exhibit ruins any dramatic elements
of the movie. They don't act like two adults pretending to be kids,
they act more like two kids pretending to be cops. 

I used to watch the 21 Jump Street series and it was a serious drama
about serious issues like homosexual bullying, drugs, suicide, and peer
pressure. It may have been a little soap operish at times, but it was
dramatic and interesting. I think it deserved more respect than this.
<|_=00=_|>
I too expected this to stink. Another buddy cop movie, starring Jonah
Hill and Channing Tatum, based on a lousy 80's television show -
doesn't sound all that appealing.

Hill's "The Sitter", completely mediocre, and it's been quite a while
since Superbads success. 

Channing Tatum showed his comedic timing during his appearance on SNL.
I was still hesitant.

But, I stand corrected.

This is the funniest movie since last years' Bridesmaids.

The key here is the fantastic script. The story isn't rocket-science,
and we knew it wouldn't be, but the comedic timing of the leads is
spot-on, and they were given a great script to work with.

I found myself laughing multiple times throughout. My spouse concurred.
One late, unnecessary gross-out moment brought it down a notch. The
film hadn't used any of those gimmicks and didn't need to in the end.
It just seemed a bit out of place and distasteful.

The leads did a great job here. Their characters worked exactly how
they should in a buddy-cop flick like this. They bounced off each other
for an hour and a half, and the result will surely be one of the best
comedies of the year, and an outside shot for my 2012
top-25(back-end)if it can hold-on.

Watch out for a sneaky cameo(spoiled by the cast list if you look).

Nice surprise.

Deserves it's ranking here.

Stuck between 7-8, but going with 76/100, so I'm rounding to 8.

You'll enjoy this if you liked:The Other Guys, Starsky and Hutch, If
Looks Could Kill, or Blue Streak - even though I think this is actually
a clear notch above all of those films.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie version of "21 Jump Street" was supposed to be a comedy, I
guess. And I guess you would think it's funny if you love the same old
jokes about penises over and over from beginning of the movie to the
very end, literally.

I thought the movie was going to show how two older, wiser guys go back
to high school as undercover cops, and show those young kids what's up.
THAT would have been interesting. Instead, they go right back to how
they were as kids, bumbling and fumbling their way along, and doing a
LOT of stupid things as well.

The juvenile behavior the two leads exhibit ruins any dramatic elements
of the movie. They don't act like two adults pretending to be kids,
they act more like two kids pretending to be cops.

The original 21 Jump Street with Johnny Depp was a good show. The movie
version with Channing Tatum and Jonah Hill was just dumb, sorry.

This is easily Tatum's worst film, and I can't stand Jonah Hill. Hill
is not funny, just annoying, and it makes sense that he co-wrote the
script.

You can tell Hill has no idea what a cool person is actually like, so
he throws in about a hundred penis jokes, along with the usual drug and
sexual comments, which take no imagination or creativity at all.

Big time bomb.
