
In his directorial debut, Robert Siegel shows that his true talent
still lies in his writing. The tone of Big Fan feels very similar to
Siegel's past writing venture, The Wrestler. In both films Siegel
proves that he is able to craft a story that feels so rooted in the
real world that at times it can feel as if you are simply a fly on the
wall watching these events unfold. The only problem with this is that
the real world can be boring, and without the direction of Darren
Aronofsky to help bolster it, Big Fan occasionally slips into this
category.

Big Fan follows the life of Paul Aufiero (Patton Oswalt), a devout New
York Giants fan, and parking garage attendant. Paul plods along through
his life, living with his mother (Marcia Jean Kurtz) in Staten Island,
working nights at the parking garage, and finishing everyday by
cranking one out before he falls asleep. We soon see that the only
thing that Paul really cares about is football, or more specifically,
the New York Giants. Paul meticulously crafts rants about why his
Giants are "destined" for glory and calls in to a local late-night
sports radio show where he is a known contributor and enemy of
Philadelphia Eagles fan, Philadelphia Phil. Paul seems happy with this
life and only asks that come Sunday he can put down another win for the
Giants. Things then take a turn for Paul as a night out with his best
friend Sal (Kevin Corrigan) results in a sighting of his favorite
player Quantrell Bishop (Jonathan Hamm). The two follow Bishop through
Staten Island eventually coming to a Manhattan strip club. In the club
Paul finally builds up the guts to go over and talk to Bishop and in a
drunken state Bishop misinterprets something Paul says and beats him to
a pulp. The rest of the film follows Paul and his struggle to figure
out his life as everyone around him tries to get him to sue, and
imprison his hero, all while his Giants stumble and fall from their
path to "destiny".

The acting in this film is its true saving grace. Oswalt proves that he
is so much more than the voice of the rat in Ratatouille. He becomes
Paul, leaving the audience completely convinced that the Giants truly
are this man's reason for living. Also of note is Kevin Corrigan.
Corrigan is continuing to be "that guy" in movies. He is probably best
known as Eddie on TV series Grounded for Life, but he has also popped
up in movies like True Romance, Goodfellas, The Departed, and more
recently Superbad and Pineapple Express. The guy is a great actor and
really deserves a lot more credit than he gets. With the character of
Sal, he really is the only character to stick by Paul throughout the
entire film, and he is completely believable the entire time. Not once
is the audience left to wonder why Sal is supporting every decision
Paul makes. Corrigan never makes us feel that he is just the token best
friend in the movie. Sal supports Paul because that is who he is and we
never doubt that. Corrigan truly deserves to get a lead role in a film
so that he can really show people what he can do.

The comparisons between Big Fan and The Wrestler are unavoidable. Both
were made on a small budget, take place in lower middle class urban
neighborhoods, and deal with sports. Unfortunately for Siegel, where
Aronofsky succeeded with The Wrestler, Big Fan seems to falter. The
direction is not bad; it just causes the film to sag in spots. I was
bored during some long stretches of the movie that made me feel like I
was watching the most mundane moments of Paul's day. The visuals often
leave something to be desired, making the viewer feel like the film was
a few steps away from being great.

Big Fan manages to combine just the right amount of comedy in what is
most definitely a drama. The acting is surprisingly good, with both
Oswalt and Corrigan turning in great performances. Siegel shows us
again that he is a great writer and has a gift when it comes to
crafting believable real life dialogue. The direction causes the movie
to be boring in some parts most likely due to this being Siegel's first
outing. Even if you are not a football fan, which I am not, you will be
able to enjoy this movie. And maybe next time you hear a crazed fan on
a radio call-in show, you will feel a little differently.
<|_=00=_|>
Oswalt plays a guy you might call a loser, but his character wouldn't
agree. He's not as over-the-top into loserdom as DiNiro in "King of
Comedy." He's not delusional, in other words, just passionate. His team
means more than anything to him, and if they are doing OK, he is
content. In his world, he has status, and he's just not interested in
anything outside that world.

I was surprised to see real acting going on, not comedy. (I won't say
"just" comedy - that's hard as hell and takes real talent.) Nothing
milked for laughs, nothing that broke the boundaries of the world of
the story. A reviewer said Oswalt was "fearless", and I agree. William
Goldman wrote of stars that you can never make their parts cool enough
for them. That's why so many movies are so terrible. Oswalt has never
seemed that interested in being cool. Instead, he dives into his
character, as sympathetic or unsympathetic as the moment requires. Not
a shtick: character.

It is a low budget production, but I felt it was adequate. The
production values didn't hurt. And it is funny, just not 3 jokes / page
of script.
<|_=00=_|>
Paul is in his mid-thirties, single, and still living at home with his
mother. He works as a parking lot attendant in New York, and is content
to sit in his booth at night writing down passionate, articulate rants,
so that when he goes home he can call a local radio sports show and
prove his fanaticism for the Giants, his favorite football team.

Paul is played by Patton Oswalt, one of the funniest stand-up comedians
alive, and what he does in this film is really quite remarkable. He
creates a fully convincing and pathetic loser, and is unafraid to
reveal all the character's lowest points. If this were an Adam Sandler
comedy we'd probably have scenes showing us how misunderstood and sweet
Paul is, so we can understand that he's the one we're meant to root
for, but Oswalt's Paul isn't so cleancut. He treats his family like
crap and has terrible mood swings; he only seems truly happy when he's
in his element: either witnessing a Giants win or ranting to strangers
on the radio. The fact that he must write his speeches down beforehand,
and preps himself for hours in advance of calling, says everything.

Paul gets in trouble when he spots a Giants quarterback at a gas
station in a shady neighborhood and follows him into a NYC nightclub.
After an awkward introduction, Paul makes the mistake of mentioning
that he's been following the sports star and his entourage for the past
few hours, and the drunken athlete reacts by beating him senseless.
Three days later Paul is hospitalized and the police want his statement
-- but he suddenly "can't remember" anything that happened, desperately
hoping the Giants won't be forced to suspend their star athlete. But
that's just the beginning of his problems.

Big Fan is the directorial debut of Robert D. Siegel, who wrote last
year's sports-themed The Wrestler. Both movies concern the plights of
apparent losers, the biggest difference being Mickey Rourke's 'Ram'
actually had a life at one point, whereas Paul's existence is
experienced vicariously. Everyone around him tries to offer a better
life, whether it's jobs or moving into his own place, but he firmly
rejects them. In Paul's eyes, this is his life. He is perfectly content
to be discontent, and the movie's lack of transformation for its
character will undoubtedly alienate some viewers.

And, put bluntly, Big Fan is not as strong or poignant as The Wrestler.
Siegel is not as capable a director as Darren Aronofsky, and the story
-- despite clocking in at under an hour and a half -- does tend to
meander a few times. But it is endearingly bleak, honest and real, and
kept afloat by Oswalt's fascinating performance, which is hard to shake
off even after the credits are over.
<|_=00=_|>
Patton Oswalt plays Paul Aufiero, the star of Big Fan, an indie drama
about a New York Giants football fanatic. He eats and breaths blue and
red and wants nothing more than for his team to go all the way. He
works as a parking garage attendant where he takes money, opens the
gate, and prepares his thoughts for the night's radio broadcast where
he is Paul from Staten Island. He calls to give his opinion about the
team, how they will win, and tells another fellow caller, Philadelphia
Phil, a proud Eagles fan, that he can basically go eat his own shorts.

He lives at home with his mother where he is bombarded with ideas and
images of a better life thanks to his well of brother (Gino Cafarelli),
a lawyer, and his brother-in-law who keeps after Paul with a job offer
that he doesn't want. Paul's only haven is with his best and only
friend Sal (Kevin Corrigan). They share a love for the game and a love
for their team. One night they spot Quantrell Bishop, Paul's favorite
Giant. His idol of the gridiron. They see him coming out of a shady
spot on Staten Island and decide to follow him all the way into a
Manhattan night club. When they decide to approach they are met by a
hostile Bishop who thinks they are stalkers. He beats Paul into the
hospital where he is met by a barrage of questions from investigators
and his lawyer brother. Now he is faced with the decision of turning a
blind eye to what happened or pressing charges against his favorite
player, likely causing his team a division title.

A round of applause to Oswalt for his performance. He really captured
the spirit of his character. I am sure that there are many people out
there similar to him (I can think of a few I know who border on this
line of fan-hood). Oswalt is a stand-up comedian by trade, but lately
has been dabbling with some acting roles. He was the voice of Remy in
Pixar's Ratatouille, one of their better casting jobs, and I
particularly liked his cameo on Comedy Central's "Reno 911" where he
played a "gamer" like those from "World of Warcraft" and "Dungeon's and
Dragons". Here he steps way out of his comfort zone and does so
effortlessly.

This is a Robert D. Siegel's directorial debut. After writing the
screenplay for last year's The Wrestler, he dives into a different
sport: the sport of, well, watching sports. He presents us with another
tragic character. Paul is someone who cares only for his team. Not
himself, his family, or his future. He doesn't care for his job and he
doesn't care about how he lives. He is a special kind of man.

Siegel does a nice job behind the camera, but his strength is clearly
on paper. He does a great job establishing background for his
characters. We know that Paul has been a die hard sports fan for a long
time. We know that he has worked the same job and has lived the same
routine for years and years. Little things like his mother saving
Chinese food condiments and the cluttering of Paul's bedroom walls with
sports paraphernalia give these characters a history. One that we can
relate to and have seen before.

This is a nice little film that has an excellent story with an even
better ending. I really enjoyed the struggle that Paul goes through
with all of the different pressures around him, trying to persuade him
to go against his will. An excellent achievement for both Siegler and
Oswalt.
<|_=00=_|>
Simplicity is a rare commodity in today's fast moving, conglomerate
world, but for Paul Aufiero (Patton Oswalt) there's only one thing that
matters in his life. Everything else is irrelevant in comparison and it
isn't his wife, or his child, or his family in general; it is the
American Football team the New York Giants. As the self-proclaimed
'biggest Giants fan ever' Paul lives, breathes, shouts, screams, and
sleeps everything about the team. He even situates a poster featuring
his favourite player Quantrell Bishop (Jonathan Hamm), the Giants
quarterback, above his single-bed. But when an opportunity arises to
meet Quantrell, the player mistakes Paul for a stalker and violently
strikes out causing his instant hospitalisation. Once released he has
to come to terms with the fact that his simple, linear life is now
starting to crash around him, like a fumble in the final moments of the
Super Bowl, as his family, the media and the team all want a piece of
the Giants 'Big Fan'.

Written and directed by Robert Siegel on a minimal budget, 'Big Fan' is
a surprising independent gem that attains the majority of its prowess
from an outstanding offensive performance by Patton Oswalt as the man
who lives for the Giants. His support is monumental as he travels week
in and week out to merely sit in the car-park outside Meadowlands
Stadium and watch the game on a portable TV with his right-hand fan Sal
(Kevin Corrigan). While he spends his job as a parking attendant
writing up witty remarks to use on the Sports Dogs nightly call-in
Sports show  of which one participant called Philadelphia Phil becomes
Paul's nemesis over-time. There banter over the airwaves becomes one of
the biggest driving forces of Paul's life while he isn't thinking about
the next game. But after the assault takes place, his loyalty, and in
turn his life starts to become torn apart. His family want him to turn
the event in an opportunity to sue the player; the local authorities
want him to press charges against quarterback, while the team are on a
losing streak as Quantrell has been suspended while the investigation
is on-going. All the while, all Paul wants is to support the team and
nothing more. He doesn't have the greed and the ambition that others
do. To him the Giants are his life-support machine, and if you take
those away he would flat-line in an instant.

While Oswalt's performance is mesmerising, Robert Siegel's writing and
direction must also be commended. His script is honest and
straight-to-the-point, he captures it captures all the awkward events
of Paul's life perfectly, including the argument between the brothers
on the toilet. While he uses the space of the world around him
perfectly to capture Paul's subtle isolated life brilliantly and at the
same time Siegel also uses the, sometimes overtly exaggerated, close-up
shot to portray the characters emotions within this one man's own
perfect universe. 'Big Fan' is low budget, high impact film that
thrives off a gleaming central performance by Patton Oswalt, and is
definitely one of the best independent films of the last couple of
years.
<|_=00=_|>
Big Fan stands as a profound and thoroughly remarkable character study
marked by a magnetic performance of Patton Oswalt. He excels as Paul
Aufiero, a life-long fan of New York Giants being brutally hit by one
of Giants' top players in a strip club. Oswalt is equally sympathetic
and believable starring as this deeply troubled character. His
performance is the chief, but thankfully not the only reason to see Big
Fan. Writer-director Robert Siegel regards the sports fanaticism as an
addiction and that gives his film the necessary gravitas: its power and
its credibility. The script is devoid of clichés with many
well-observed situations thrown in and several ingenious twists you
won't see coming. As a result, you observe Paul falling into decay with
great anxiety combined with care. Siegel crafts a subversive comedy,
funny and bleak in equal measures. It also works as a peculiar take on
the pathology of sports mania.
<|_=00=_|>
While watching this movie, it's best to keep in mind that the word
"fan" is a shortened form of "fanatic." Patton Oswalt is disturbingly
good as Paul, a 36 year-old pathetic shlub who still lives with his
mother and works a dead-end job as a parking lot attendant. His life
revolves around the NY Giants and calling in to sports radio shows to
deliver rants he carefully composes while he passes the time in his
parking attendant booth. One night in a strip club, Paul meets his
favorite playerwho proceeds to beat Paul within an inch of his life.
The rest of the film becomes a distressing and insightful commentary on
the vaunted status we afford to our sports "heroes," often at the
expense of our own sense of self-worth. We witness Paul's inability to
understand what's happened to him, which results in a growing sense of
dissociation, ultimately leading to a sad and pitiable attempt to
assert his loyalty and strength.
<|_=00=_|>
A combination of the awesomeness of The Wrestler and the terrifying
mood of the trailer brought me to this movie. Robert Siegal has his
eyes on sports, but he's not making the feel-good sports movies about
the American Dream and hope winning over the underdog. His sports movie
is the world of self-destruction, or in this case, of ultimate passion
met with ultimate lack of ambition, as he explores the life of a person
with absolutely no motivation but for what serves his team.

Patton Oswalt plays Paul Aufiero, a man who loves his New York Giants.
He loves the Giants so much, in fact, that he has nothing else in his
life. He lives with his mother, he has no intention of getting a
girlfriend, he has a dead end job that he's nevertheless completely
satisfied with, and he does nothing all day but think up some excited
rants to give out on his local fan radio station and drive to the
Giants ballpark to support them (though not monetarily, as he just
watches the television in the parking lot). When he and his one and
only friend Sal (Kevin Corrigan) see the Giants' quarterback Bishop
getting gas, they decide to follow him to get a chance to meet him.
Unfortunately, their lack of social grace and a miscommunication
results in a violent confrontation and Paul ends up in the hospital,
Bishop cannot play anymore, and the season--and thus Paul's sense of
reality and self-esteem--go down the tubes in rather short order.

I was expecting disturbing drama but a lot of this movie is actually
quite comedic, and it seems to me that Siegal is mostly working
character portrait this time around. The good thing is that Paul
Aufiero is neither a caricature of sports fans in general, nor does he
stand-in for, for instance, Giants fans or anything like that. He is
entirely his own individual character, and it's the lack of familiarity
with him that gives most of the drama since it makes his decisions
quite unpredictable. However, Siegal is, between The Wrestler and Big
Fan, obviously great at creating empathy for his characters, so the
drama definitely draws you in. I would have preferred a darker story
simply because that is what I went in expecting, but it turns out that
even the more comedic moments really do make sense in terms of who Paul
is and what he would do in those situations. In the end, the movie is
surprisingly nonjudgmental about his decisions, and he still manages to
lose the all of nothing he had and still be happy (because he needs
nothing else). So, good for Paul? The movie itself is certainly a win.

--PolarisDiB
<|_=00=_|>
How big is the small independent movie "Big Fan"? Well if you are a
fervent football fan, then to certain extents you will relate to the
film's protagonist Paul Aufiero; a die hard New York Giants fan whose
life revolves around following the pigskin team and one of its star
players Linebacker Quantrell Bishop. If you are not a football
aficionado, then my daring prediction is that you will still be taken
by its narrative's character study on obsession as a way of life. So
"Big Fan" did not make big bucks at the box office. So what! It still
sacked plenty of dynamic film-making richness in Writer-Director Robert
Siegel's brilliant look on one man's fixation for his favorite football
team. Patton Oswalt's marvelous performance as Aufiero was of thespian
Pro Bowl caliber. Oswalt fired away sorry maybe wrong choice of words
for JFK Stadium Philly fans. What I meant to say is that Oswalt scores
high with his portrayal of a sports nut who spends most of his working
day as a park attendant writing discourse for his ritual nightly
call-in to a sports radio talk show. Aufiero, near 40, still lives with
his whining mother. His injury attorney brother Jeff, Jeff's
archetypical New York attorney wife Gina, and Paul's other sibling
Christine think that Paul is an immature "get a life" slacker whose New
York Giants worship has caused him brain damage. Even though Paul's
family is not on the "They Might Be Giants" team, they still love him
and what him to flourish professionally & personally. The plot of "Big
Fan" takes a stalking play-call turn when Auferio follows the Bishop to
a Strip Club (somehow that does not sound right) and the Linebacker
does an off-the-field "unsportsmanlike penalty" play by beating the
crapola out of Paul. However, the deranged Aufiero does not intercept
Bishop's playing career by pressing charges against the millionaire
footballista. Kevin Corrigan's exceptional performance as Paul's
Giants-Loving best buddy Sal well complimented Oswalt's Aufiero. This
rocking "They Are Most Certainly Giants" duo were a big hit during
their shared screen time. Michael Rapaport flew like an eagle in his
brief scene-stealing supporting performance as the obnoxious
Philadelphia Eagles fan Phil, which in some odd way could be classified
as the villain of "Big Fan". Other supporting performances that
tailgated the aforementioned fine acting of the film was carried by
Marcia Jean Kurtz as Paul's Mom, Gino Cafarelli as brother Jeff, and
Serafina Fiore as Gina. Siegel's game plan on the writing & direction
of "Big Fan" was fantastic with its authenticity, creativity, and
connectivity. And what an original trick plot play does Siegel call
during the 4th Quarter of this movie! You just gotta see it! But at the
end of the game, it was General Patton Oswalt's mesmeric starring
performance that enamored me the most to be a big fan of "Big Fan".
***** Excellent
<|_=00=_|>
"Big Fan" is an unpleasant movie about an extremely unpleasant man.

Patton Oswalt plays a dumpy 37-year-old loser who lives with his mother
and spends his life living vicariously through the glories of the New
York Giants. On a night out on the town, he and his buddy catch sight
of their favorite player and follow him to a nightclub. When they
approach him, a misunderstanding leads to Oswalt getting badly beaten
by him. But he refuses to take legal action against him despite the
admonishments of his family, because he'd rather see his favorite
player able to lead his team to a win than seek remuneration for
himself.

"Big Fan" starts out as a low-key comedy, but gradually picks up dark
overtones and seems like it's going to take its audience to some
uncomfortable places. Oswalt's character comes across as a schlubby but
mostly decent guy at first, but as the movie progresses, we start to
wonder if he might be mentally unhinged. However, a cop-out ending
lurches the film back into uneasy dark comedy, and basically asks us to
find Oswalt's character endearing even though he's been nothing but off
putting.

The tone is all over the place, the comedy never really working. If the
film had acknowledged that Oswalt's character is a loser, and made some
kind of point about the fine line that begins to separate hobby from
obsession, it might have been more interesting. But it instead asks us
to take his side, and seems to take the stance that his obsession is
just the healthy interest of your everyday man-child. The movie goes
out of its way to make Oswalt's family into obnoxious caricatures, and
we're not supposed to like them because they think he needs to get a
life, but guess what....his family seemed to me to make a lot of sense.

Pretty much the definition of a misfire.

Grade: C
