
Trying to keep up with the plot of this movie is like chasing a moving
train. Except even when you think you've caught up to it, you're not
sure you want to get on board. 

As someone who went into this movie with tempered expectations thanks
to negative critical reviews, yet also hope it would have some
redeeming moments due to the overall positive IMDb user reviews, I can
honestly say that the critics may have won on this one. 

Suicide Squad has a number of issues, but is not a total loss for comic
book fans. The performances by the actors is not what stops this film
from being a success, but it doesn't stop their characters from going
in the wrong direction. 

1. THE PLOT: The plot was pretty much a mess. This was a common
complaint about the Batman V. Superman movie: the plot defied logic and
had too much trivial sub-plot due to the amount of characters. Suicide
Squad runs into a similar problem. I feel like they compensated logic
to simply include scenes that would satisfy comic book fans, however
it's at the sake of the film's success as a whole. Nothing is ever
explained that you want explained. And somehow the movie is a confusing
blend of predictable yet unclear. I found myself constantly asking "Why
wouldn't you just do____?" 

2. Not enough screen time for the other squad members: The rest of the
squad (Other than Harley and Deadshot) are not fleshed out well. And
the movie's feeble attempts to add background, dimension or complexity
to the characters fails, with flashbacks and random monologues that
don't elicit any sort of empathy from the viewer. I found myself easily
not caring about the squad or its success at all. (Example in point 6)

3. PACING: I think the attempts to flesh out the characters failed also
because of the way the movie is paced. It's about 2 hours, yet feels
like a 30 minute movie. Scenes jump around quickly and what they do
choose to drag out (flashbacks amongst other things) may be fun to
watch but is unnecessary. 

3. Overuse of Music: A little more nit-picky, yet nonetheless something
I noticed. Now I'm for every character having a cool theme, and
soundtracks are great but... Suicide Squad utilizes loud, distracting,
CONSTANT music... over dialogue, over key scenes.... music accompanies
everything. Or at least that's what it felt like. Don't get me wrong
sometimes it works. 

4. THERE ARE NO STAKES INVOLVED WHEN YOU'RE FIGHTING MONSTERS MADE OF
GOOP: I worried about the antagonists of this movie when I saw the
trailers. None of the fight scenes have any real tension or meaning,
because of the type of monsters their fighting. Faceless, CGI, magical
goop. 

5. Uneven Dynamic of Power: This is a big issue I have with the movie.
A lot of the characters seem extremely unnecessary and frankly
misplaced, due to the disparity of power between all of them. In Batman
V. Superman, people worried about how Batman would stand next to
Superman, Wonder Woman and Apocalypse. In Suicide Squad it just felt
wrong that a girl with bat and a guy with a boomerang were even within
two feet of a guy who can breathe fire and a woman who can tear a hole
in the sky. You simply don't believe Harley, for example, is needed in
the group, which throws the logic of the film out of wack. Or that her
bat can rip apart monsters, when Waller's bullets don't pierce them or
Katana's sword. Not sure if this is a popular opinion, but the thought
definitely occurred to me. 

6. Katana : Out of all the characters in this movie, Katana's character
was the biggest wasted opportunity (Boomerang is a close runner up).
I'm not too familiar with her character in the comics, but I've looked
up a couple strips and she's speaking English. THEY FREAKING SUBTITLE
HER IN THE MOVIE. She can't even communicate with the damn squad. She
could have been a character that could bond with them and be pretty
cool, but she's reduced to a non-English speaking, body guard. And the
film's attempts to humanize her couldn't be more ineffective. I had
hoped this character would be utilized stronger and better.

7. The Joker : I never thought I'd say this in my lifetime, but this
film should not have included the Joker. He should have full gotten his
own movie or only been in certain scenes. Jared Leto does a great job,
and he's definitely a scene stealer. In fact, I could see people
leaving this movie thinking he was the best part or the only redeeming
quality (Which in my mind is actually Will Smith), but I did enjoy
watching the Joker. But his appearances made no sense in the context of
the plot and felt fairly forced and random. I was expecting complex
schemes from him or maybe an interesting sub plot, but that's not what
I got from the movie.

8. Still Fun to Watch : The movie with all its faults is nonetheless
fun to watch at times and the performances aren't bad. There are
particular moments that I think are done well or include nice cinematic
details. Batman v. Superman is overall a better film, but Suicide Squad
is definitely more exciting. 

In conclusion: It was difficult to keep this review fairly spoiler
free, but I think I did it. Suicide Squad may become your next "guilty
pleasure bad movie" film, but I think the average viewer will
definitely find the film to be subpar. I did, and I hope this review
helps you.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't get the ratings here. This is a cut and dry poorly made movie
and fans of the DC universe deserve better. I don't normally post my
reviews here. But I have to share my take on this movie because it just
wasn't good. I didn't even have to go into spoilers to show how
terrible it is. Movie goers shouldn't mindlessly consume these films.
Christopher Nolan set a high bar, but producers and studios need to
step messing with auteurs and maybe we can get a quality DC movie:

There is nothing in Suicide Squad that shows any hope that an auteur
filmmaker can do anything distinctive with the current cash cow of the
Hollywood machine: the super hero movie. What Christopher Nolan once
made his own has devolved into a predictable pastiche whose charms
should be wearing thin on audiences. It doesn't help that the movie is
also an example of how bad one of these films can be when it becomes
watered down and designed to refrain from shaking up anything in the
so-called DC Universe. Suicide Squad, a PG-13 film, was supposed to be
DC's entry to rival Marvel's R-rated Deadpool. Even though Deadpool had
its own problems as a self-aware action movie, it still had focus and a
bravado that is nowhere to be found in Suicide Squad.

Suicide Squad follows a group of villains with super powers released
from prison as part of a government plan to protect the world from
terrorists or whatever sign-of-the-times fear currently plaguing
society (Zika?). Starring Will Smith as the hit man Deadshot and Margot
Robbie as the Joker's manic girlfriend Harley Quinn, alongside several
other less familiar DC baddies, these guys are supposed to be complex
people who have long fallen from grace and are supposed to rise above
to find their humanity and gain the audience's sympathy. But
writer-director David Ayer tries so hard to take a safe route, you can
see the gears trying to manipulate audience emotion, revealing the
inherit problems of these comic book adaptations straining to catch up
with decades of printed storytelling.

You can't totally blame Ayer, who last gave moviegoers Fury, an
incredibly strong and startling war movie featuring a better fleshed
out motley crew of characters. The preciousness Hollywood has for its
ongoing world building of interconnected comic book films creates such
tight restrictions on storytelling that anything that might upset that
world has no room to prosper. At one point, toward the end of Suicide
Squad, one character asks another, "Shouldn't you be dead?" Of course
not, this is the DC universe, and it's gotta be milked. That means no
major players should be written off in one movie.

The result of these storytelling restraints is a soulless kind of
filmmaking hampered by pussyfooting. It's like a syrupy glaze that
drowns out any possibility to shine above what has become a predictable
pattern of storytelling. Characters dole out uninspired lines that play
superficially to feelings, like, "Dad, I know you do bad things, but I
still love you." Then there are the clich√©s, like "fight fire with
fire." Sometimes the script inadvertently deflates the tension by
spelling things out. Someone over a radio says, "Use extreme caution,"
and someone in the action responds, "I don't like this." But in case
you miss that, someone else says, "I don't like it either." A kid
playing with his action figures can come up with better chatter to
establish tension....
<|_=00=_|>
Disappointment. That's actually far better than what I felt after
watching this movie. I wanted to leave the cinema about 30 minutes
before the end but that's against my personal policy so I tried plan B
but found nothing to poke my eyes out so I watched, and cried...

-First, where is Deadshot? No, because all I saw from start to end is
goody Will Smith playing the good family guy, very far from the cold
hearted hired assassin he is supposed to play.

-Second, what was that false publicity? The Joker appeared a lot in the
trailer but he has absolutely no purpose in this movie apart from being
the background story of Harley Quinn. Really, you remove him, you get
the same movie but with only half of the theatre full.

-Third, while I'm on her, the guys who made this movie obviously didn't
get the relationship between Harley and the Joker. The Joker don't give
a damn about her, she is his tool, he can throw her from a bridge
without a second thought while Harley has developed a serious Stockholm
Syndrome toward him. In this movie they are all lovey-dovey, at the end
of the movie I nearly expected to see them leave in a car with "Just
Married" written on the back with a "And they lived happily ever
after."

-The first half of the movie is actually not that bad, the villains
really look and act like villains most of the time but everything
started to fall apart after Will Smith reunite his troops after they
failed the mission the first time, each one of them just want to drop
everything and leave but then Will Smith says they can't give up and of
course all the bad guys listen to him because he is Will Smith (God?).
That was when I did my first face-palm.

-This movie is 50% Will Smith, 40% Harley Quinn, and 10% the others.
Really, apart from the first two, the others are just background
characters, to make a comparison, in Guardian of the galaxy, you got
one hero but you know the background stories of every members of the
team, and they get their fair share of screen time. In this movie, they
just don't care.

-The jokes, sorry... The "jokes", well, I think the quotes speaks for
themselves. Sometimes it's funny, most of the times it's not and
sometimes they even try to explain the joke you understand but don't
find funny. I think Warner tried to be more funny and less dark in this
movie after they got some bad reviews about Batman Vs Superman being
too dark but that's just ridiculous, they remade some scenes to add
jokes and sometimes it even breaks the action.

-And while I'm on it, Batman vs Superman had an impact in the DC
Universe, it starts with the consequences of what happened in Man of
Steel and at the end of it, the world has changed. In this movie, there
is no progression of the DC Universe, it feels more like one of those
filler episode you don't want to watch in any series.

-I won't talk about the end of this movie because, as a sadist, I want
you to go watch this movie and suffer during the two hours needed to
finally reach the end credits. Just know that the last minutes are
actually way worse than the rest of the movie. Enjoy ;)

Anyway, as a DC fan, I wanted to see Harley Quinn in a movie but
certainly not in this one. I really, really, REALLY hope that Warner
won't use this movie as a reference to make Justice League because if
they do I'll have to formulate an official request to DC so they can
let Marvel do their movies :D See you all in 2017.
<|_=00=_|>
I am really really disappointed to be honest. I was waiting for this
movie for so long, I loved Suicide Squad in Assault on Arkham and I was
so happy when the news arrived about the live action movie. And as a
massive Jared Leto fan I was extremely happy they chose him for the
role of my all time favorite character, Joker. So I was hyped to see
him, but the whole gang too. And what I got from the movie was equal
with pure sadness. I mean, Jared was in it for a total 10 minutes and
his role could have been easily left out, I only knew the characters
because I read the comics and watched the wonderful animation (which by
the way a 100 times better), the story telling was HORRIBLE, the actors
could have been wonderful but they kinda lost in the terrible script.
Will Smith, Margot Robbie and Viola Davis were fantastic but we didn't
really get to know them... and the other characters were only there
for... who know why? WHY DC, WHY? This story had so much promise and
you ruined it... You should have adopted the Assault on Arkham into a
live action movie... All these characters would needed a stand alone
movie, and once we've got to know them then put them together... sure
it would take years to build up a universe like that, but come on,
that's what Marvel did and their movies are amazing! I am so, so sad
right now... All of the actors deserve way better than this and they
all have great potential
<|_=00=_|>
This movie tries to be so much but ends up being a real mess.

Where do I begin? Character introduction runs for almost 40 minutes and
I still don't end up giving a damn about anyone.

Jokes are often very misplaced and feels extremely forced. Many scenes
feels like they were made solely for sake of the trailer and also the
trailer resembles nothing of what the actual movie is like.

CGI is so off that I divide the movie into 2 teams, CGI-team and real
team, and I keep ending up thinking how the ***k is human team going to
beat world consuming superman-like characters.

However I do like the look of the Villains, especially Enchantress.

Maybe this film is the best thing for DC Universe superfans, but for
the casual viewer it's very hard to get a grip of this movie, at least
for me it was.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got back from the movie and have a few feelings about it. It
started out solid enough, we get to know the
characters/motivations/weaknesses. Yes it was hurried but necessary and
stylish.

Then things drastically started to go downhill. DC's answer to Samuel
Jackson is the stony faced Amanda Waller. She decides she needs to get
these people together in case of another meta-human attack and by doing
so she instigates the attack itself.

So now we are faced with the big bad enchantress who we know nothing
about and really aren't that committed to as a movie baddie. But that's
OK... the bad guys aren't that important if our protagonists have good
charisma with each other on screen. Here was my biggest issue. They
just don't.

The enemy ends up being a barrage of blackberry-headed minions and it
begins to feel like an annoying video game. Step into a room, kill all
bad guys, move on to the next room and repeat. To add insult to injury
Rick Flagg even gets dragged away twice and has to be rescued like
those ridiculous 'keep them alive' missions in video games. The action
feels more suited to a war movie than to a comic book movie (perhaps
the directors past is showing here)

I wanted to like this movie, I wanted to like the characters but there
were points where the dialogue was just so bad. TWICE, characters
randomly hit on Katana to which she does not respond. It's not funny.
TWICE everyone ends up ogling Harley Quinn. The attempts at humor in
the movie were weak at best. Killer Croc utters so many pointless one
liner's that are neither funny nor useful. It just didn't work. 

You want humor? When the characters are being shown their wildest
dreams, give us a ridiculous seen with Boomerang. Give us some funny
scenes with Diablo and stop saying 'esse' at him.

I loved the romance with Joker and Harley.. give us more of that, don't
squeeze the joker into a bunch of different personas.

The bar scene was lovely, you felt the characters come close to
something like a bond. Don't give us that at the end... give us that at
the start of the movie, make us actually feel like these people mesh
together well. They call themselves a family at the end but they have
done nothing to merit that.

Diablo had a cool scene at the end and Will Smith played an amazing
Deadshot but I feel Rick Flag was just badly cast. I never really cared
for the Rick and Deadshot scenes together on screen... It never felt
like it really worked. 

Overall, I'll still watch DC movies, but I do feel like they are
missing something that the Marvel counterpart has got right. Maybe it's
heart, maybe Marvel just have more practice but I hope DC can redeem
themselves next year.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to this movie and only ended up with a
huge deception. The script is messy and there are way too many
characters that are too quickly introduced. Many of these "villains"
would require a whole movie to give intensity to their character... I
really feel like DC just wanted to have as big an audience as possible
without spending a penny on the script. Some good things are the
special effects , the movie is overall very beautiful to watch. Some
characters need a bravo for their wonderful roles: Harley Quinn
mostly... The others are kind of empty to me. And some are very very
bad like enchantress who mumbles in a foreign language all along and
whose only 3 lines in English SUCK (when she asks Flag to destroy
enchantress instead of saving her blabla). The Joker doesn't have a
place in the movie, his role does not add anything to it and half of
his lines are... awkward moans. El Diablo's behavior is predictable
from the very beginning, Batman really wasn't necessary, Katana's few
lines are desperately cheesy, etc... As a conclusion, the viewer is
unable to feel a link whatsoever to any of the characters since their
stories are disappointingly and quickly told. The acting of many
characters does not help, whether they were just bad or the director
asked them to play in that un-subtle fashion. The script is disjoint,
flashbacks don't add much quality or intensity to the movie, and the
"big plot" revealed at the end is... not much of a secret since the
viewer KNOWS enchantress escaped from the hands of Waller. I feel like
this is a big commercial move from DC to attract people... However,
this will only disgust the people who were fans of the heroes/villains
in the beginning. Money over quality
<|_=00=_|>
Is this movie terrible? Absolutely not

Is this movie great? Absolutely not.

I always heard from people that they either HATED or LOVED this movie.
And for me it was neither.

The audience for this film is served with a classic action movie/comic
book. "The world is in danger! There must be a solution! Although there
are bumps between the characters along the way, eventually, we'll solve
the problem"

The interesting twist is *supposed* to be that instead of classic
superheroes, we have bad guys. To that I say "so what?". The movie
didn't really establish why I should care about much of what was going
on on screen¬óit was all just classic popcorn movie action and sequences
that were occasionally broken up by half-attempts at character
development.
<|_=00=_|>
To start it off, i'm a big fan of dc cinematic universe, and the year
2016, hadn't been a good year for me and the other fans. Even though,
i'll state myself optimistic, since actually, all my hopes and
expectation fall into this movie instead. 

OK, Let's start with the strong aspects of the movie; performances and
characters. well, i actually think this is what the director want to
top off and show to the audience, thus forgetting the plot, which we
will get into later. but the characters and the performances are
well-performed- Margot Robbie as Harley Quinn really tops off my
expectation. i'm a fan of harley quinn character, and she actually
brought me the harley quinn i'm expected for- sexy, beautiful, it girl
of joker's. while watching the movie, and whenever i'm feeling bored,
harley quinn is there to make the scene fresh. and i think all
audience, including audiences who didn't know her will love her and
feel sympathetic to her. Will smith as deadshot actually didn't deserve
much of my appreciation. i mean even though he's one of the great and
strong aspect in the movie, i just thought i don't see will smith even
trying to act, which weirdly works. watching Will smith here is just
watching him using a kickass suit. Jared Leto as The Joker, is actually
isn't the worst part of the movie (unlike what people might have said)
i think that Jared Leto pull of a great effort into his character, and
some scene of him showing up gave me goosebumps and own joys. but,
maybe how little the scene for him is, or his character is pretty
under-developed that just doesn't fit the puzzle in the movie. Viola
Davis as Amanda Waller also brought up my her characther pretty well,
as she played the cold-hearted leader Amanda Waller. other performances
are great, like Joel Kinnaman, Jai Courtney, Jay Hernandez, Karen
Fukuhara, and Cara Delevigne.

The chemistry between the characters are great, as well as the
development between their relationship. in my opinion, one of the
strongest chemistry is Harley Quinn and Deadshot. Their chemistry is
electric, funny, and watching them teasing, and slowly started to care
about each other, is entertaining, and make me ship them together.
even, i have a relationship that had a weak chemistry, that is Rick
Flagg and June Moore's relationship which is bland, forced, and
unnecessary. 

Now, parts that i think is the weak part of the movie, I think the plot
is the main reason. The plot is lazy-written and under-developed,and at
some point is pretty ridiculous. i don't want to get into it too much,
since it will spoil some things, and i need you to watch the movie
without spoilers, yet. even, i could tell you that the CGI is pretty
cringy and sometimes, so does the visual effect between the scenes. the
ending is actually rushed, predictable, and i think they could do
better after building up the story of the fight scene.

At the end, everything has its bad and has its good, what i really
suggest for you to do is just lower your expectation, yet don't miss it
either. it may not lift the hype as in the greatness in the trailer,
but i think it's still a great fun must see summer movie , and you
should enjoy it without all the overly negative critics.
<|_=00=_|>
My god, that was AWFUL. Just random made-for-trailer tiny scenes that
add to nothing, have zero depth and don't make up a coherent plot.
Wall-to-wall inappropriate songs that come at random times. Boring plot
(if you can even call it that), boring and indistinguishable flat
characters. Harley Quinn was annoying. Jared Leto did his best as The
Joker but had absolutely nothing to work with - he just appears at
random times for a few seconds and disappears. There's no depth and no
story. If you've seen the trailers, you basically saw all the
one-liners and "money shots".

If all that isn't enough, the last third of the movie is simply
unwatchable.

I don't think David Ayer is a bad director (I liked HARSH TIMES and
FURY), but this is definitely his worst movie yet and I'm pretty sure
it's due to massive pressure from the producers.
