
Lowrider is a term that refers to a certain type of low-riding car and
the people who drive them. Lowrider cars have been modified with
hydraulics so they can be raised or lowered by the flick of a switch
and many of the cars can also bounce. They also have wire-spoke wheels,
whitewall tires and detailed unique designs painted on them. Lowrider
culture developed among the Mexican-American community in Los Angeles
in the years following World War II. The hydraulic modifications came
about after California passed a law making it illegal for any part of a
car to be lower than the bottom of its wheel rims. The ability to
adjust the height of the chassis allows the driver to skirt the law by
raising the car when law enforcement is in the area and lowering it
again after the danger of getting the lowrider impounded has passed.
The painted designs are also a statement of individuality, celebrating
Hispanic culture. These various aspects of the East L.A. car culture
are found throughout the drama "Lowriders" (PG-13, 1:39)  along with
the emotional story of one family being pulled apart by conflicting
values.

Danny (Gabriel Chavarria) is a Mexican-American high school senior
who's torn between his priorities and those of his father, Miguel
(Demián Bichir). Miguel is a widower and recovering alcoholic who owns
a custom garage and wants nothing more than to win an annual lowrider
competition with his 1961 Chevy Impala, "Green Poison", which sports a
hood design painted by Miguel's father. Danny considers himself an
artist, but his canvases have all been L.A. bridges and buildings.
After Danny gets arrested for a particularly dangerous graffiti stunt,
Miguel is beyond disappointed, telling Danny that he's turning out just
like his brother, Francisco (Theo Rossi), who people call "Ghost" and
who is spending time in prison.

When Ghost is released from prison, he angers his father by taking
Green Poison cruising  with Danny along for the ride  and announces
that he's competing against Miguel in the upcoming lowrider
competition. As the tension between Miguel and his older son rises,
Danny continues fighting for his right to make his art. He starts
dating a photographer named Lorelai (Melissa Benoist), who helps Danny
get his art noticed, but not the way that he wants. The result of that
lowrider competition accelerates the escalation of tensions between
Miguel and Ghost, putting Danny in the middle, and leading to some
serious consequences. In the midst of all this, a local police
detective (Cress Williams) is repeatedly involved in the family's
turmoil, Danny's best friend, Chuy (Tony Revolori), gets caught up in
this whole mess and Danny's new stepmother, Gloria (Eva Longoria), is
fighting to keep the family together.

"Lowriders" is engaging, interesting and entertaining. Although the
details differ from family to family, the film's drama is something to
which most people can relate. The script, by several writers, including
Elgin James ("Little Birds") and Cheo Hodari Coker ("Notorious"),
sometimes has the various family members take some nonsensical actions,
but the strong cast (especially Bichir and Rossi) helps sell the story.
And, thankfully, this is one movie about Mexican-Americans that has
nothing to do with drugs (except for some alcohol). For many Movie
Fans, the main attraction will be the vehicles of the film's title.
Director Ricardo de Montreuil (helming his first American feature)
celebrates lowrider culture without deifying it. The movie's balance
makes it easy to enjoy seeing and learning about these rolling murals,
which really are mechanical marvels, along with Danny's struggle for
acceptance and the poignant family drama at the film's heart. "B"
<|_=00=_|>
"Lowriders" is a solid redemption drama wrapped in a celebration of a
car culture that frankly doesn't often get the respect and attention it
deserves. With all the fast and furious stuff going on out there, it's
a breath of fresh air to just appreciate the art of the low and slow.

Directed by Ricardo de Montreuil, set against the backdrop of the
lowrider society in Los Angeles, Southern California, Gabriel Chavarria
plays a talented young graffiti artist, Danny, who's caught between the
lowrider world inhabited by his old school father (Demian Bichir) and
his ex-con brother (Theo Rossi). Co-starring Eva Longoria, Melissa
Benoist, and Tony Revolori.

Last year you had a look at L.A. from the much vibrant musical point of
view through "La La Land," well, "Lowriders" gives you a different
angle, and not the stereotypical gang turf war either. It's a clash
between father and sons, about sins of the past and what they define as
self-expression. I think the story blends the car culture and the
family drama really well, the mix of those two makes sense in this
film, and it speaks about the characters as well. There's plenty of
conflict to go around, well-performed by all the actors involved.

You don't have to come from that background or from that neighborhood
or you don't necessarily even have to know much about cars to be able
to relate to "Lowriders." It's one of those situations in which you can
always tell beauty when you see one, whatever shapes and sizes, and so
that's the kind of art that "Lowriders" offers. A lot of people look
down on graffities, some of their reasons may be justified, but a lot
of the times they also don't take the time to truly look at the work
and try to understand what it's trying to say. Street artists may not
have the same reputation that gallery or exhibit artists do but that
kind of freedom is what "Lowriders" puts a spotlight on. It's a film
that does the culture justice.

-- Rama's Screen --
<|_=00=_|>
A young street artist in East Los Angeles is caught between his
father's obsession with lowrider car culture, his ex-felon brother and
his need for self-expression. Lowriders is a film that i wanted to
check out for some time now and mostly because of Melissa Benoist and
honestly it did not disappoint, of course the film didn't go out
without people criticizing it, it currently sits on a 55% on Rotten
Tomatoes with a 67% on the Audience Score and a 5.7/10 here on IMDb and
i highly disagree this isn't some kind of "Fast and the Furious" movie
you won't see ridiculous car chase sequences or the Rock doing a spear
in Vin Diesel it's not mindless fun it's actually a character study
piece with some really great performances by Gabriel Chavarria (War for
the Planet of the Apes), Theo Rossi (Luke Cage), Demian Bichir (Alien
Covenant), Melissa Benoist (Supergirl) and Eva Longoria (Harsh Times)
the entire Cast gives some pretty good performances and each of them
has a vision for example Miguel wants to reunite with his sons Danny
and "Ghost", Lorelai wants her art to be recognized and Gloria simply
wants her family united once again. You do get to see the Lowriding
world and it's cars and it's quite beautiful to say the least but you
also get a pretty heavy drama about 2nd chances and fatherhood and most
important about love and art. It does have it's flaws like it dragged
in certain moments and i wish that things went a bit better for certain
characters but overall i really enjoyed it a lot and i loved the style
that it had this wasn't another car chase thriller or whatever you
wanna call it it was actually a pretty decent and smart drama with some
pretty good performances by a talented cast of actors. (8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
"Lowriders (2016)", a textbook example of a good movie ! While not
tackling epic themes such as survival of humanity(since it's a drama),
the story is told through it's characters as they make mistakes, learn
upon them and change. We following their relationship within and
outside the family while keeping it like a true lowrider movie, low and
easy, totally opposite of F&F movies. Cinematography was really good,
with lighting sometimes being really outstanding ! Overall I'd
recommend this movie, even though it wasn't upfront like most modern
car-culture-inspired movies. I'm giving it 7/10, a totally subjective
opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
Lowriders has a couple of things working against it right off the bat.
First it's a Blumhouse release, which makes one think horror film. Two,
the name implies it's a movie about cars, in the vein of The Fast and
The Furious franchise. Lowriders is neither of these things.

What the movie is, is a family drama centred on a Mexican-American
family in LA. The father owns a car shop, and is prepping to enter into
a car competition for low-riding cars. These lowriders are portrayed as
part of the culture down there, though I don't know enough to know how
true that is.

Daniel, the main character in the movie, is a teen trying to find his
way. He's a street artist (graffiti), but gets no recognition. His
older brother, Francisco a.k.a Ghost just got out of jail, and recruits
Daniel away from the father.

These different tensions are well played out and acted, and it's easy
to get invested in the characters. Knowledge of the culture isn't
necessary to find the good in the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Normally I wouldn't watch this flick because it's really about the
lowrider culture famous with the South American people living in the
USA. Not that the culture is bad but is really is filmed in their
language but what tricked me is that Eva Longoria and Melissa Benoist
are in it, famous from Desperate Housewives and Supergirl. 

Eva is recognizable but Melissa is harder to recognize. So I picked it
up and I must say that it really is a good flick, a bit cliché here and
there, you know son being prisoned and the father ignoring him and it
all explains itself throughout this flick but ion the other hand the
cars shown, and there are a lot, are a must see.

So if you dig muscle cars rebuild into lowriders then this is a must
see. 

Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 0/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5
<|_=00=_|>
For a low budget movie this is pretty well made and acted.
cinematography is well done. Sure it's cliché and cheesy at parts or
maybe even a bit heavy handed at others... compared to a B.S.
garbageathon movie like the Fast and Furious franchise (after part
1)this actually has heart. This is not Oscar worthy but Worth a rental
for sure.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a young man who is an aspiring graffiti
artist. His brother has just been released from prison, and his
mechanic father does not approve of him pursuing his dreams.

"Lowriders" is really not my world, and therefore I have difficulty in
connecting with any of the characters. I never knew cars bouncing up
and down existed, and never imagined that it was actually a popular
thing. Graffiti is not my passion either, so I basically have very
little in common with the characters. The only thing I have in common
is the ability to feel bad during the lows of life, but that is not
enough for me to enjoy watching "Lowriders".
<|_=00=_|>
This film is definitely worth watching. The story itself is not
groundbreaking but the performances are solid. Watching Demian Bichir
and Theo Rossi face off is worth the price of admission. Eva as the mom
is a bad ass bitch and Gabriel as Danny holds his own.

One of the best things about the film is the glimpse we get into East
LA and the Lowrider culture. It's a rich world visually and culturally.
It's nice to see this world depicted in the movie theaters.

It's a strong family drama with strong acting and some powerful
performances with some amazing works of art on wheels.
