
Despite having double the budget and some pretty big Hollywood stars
the 2010 release adds nothing whatsoever, and in fact is in many ways
inferior.

Not only are there some very lacklustre performances in particular from
Chris Rock and Martin Lawrence as the two sons of the deceased, but the
camera work in some sections is truly awful with the decision to use
"handheld" or steadicam photography resulting in the picture shaking so
badly in some sections that it is almost hard to watch.

Despite all this many of the best moments of the original are copied
perfectly and work just as well as they did the first time around
meaning that there are several good laughs to be had, but when you've
got the choice of watching this or the original there's really no
contest.

Distinctly average.
<|_=00=_|>
Why was this film remade? Why can't the Americans just let us have our
comedies? Why do they have to steal all of our ideas? Why would James
Marsden and Danny Glover degrade themselves in this movie? Why can't
they try something original for a change? And when will Chris Rock
realise that he's really not all that funny?

Please take my advice all avid film and comedy fans if anyone out there
is interested in watching this film STOP!!!! Go out and find the
original and watch that. I promise you it is so much better.

The British have a much more tactful way of creating comedy. We don't
need to use short people jokes and sexual innuendo to get laughs. IT'S
JUST SIMPLY BETTER
<|_=00=_|>
'Unnecessary' is probably the best single word description of Neil
LaBute's "Death at a Funeral." I mean, there's really no precedent for
the release of a same-language remake a paltry two and a half years
after its original, and yet the guest list arrives for this new
"Funeral" with almost as fast a turnaround as a Hollywood sequel. Hell,
Chris Nolan hibernated on his second "Batman" film longer.

Nevertheless, the reality is that the decidedly Afro-American-friendly
version of the dysfunctional family comedy (notable only because it
really is the later film's sole distinguishing feature), is now in
theaters, leaving anyone who remembers the Frank Oz original to ponder
why.

LaBute and star Chris Rock, who also served as a producer on the film,
cheekily 'adapt' U.K. writer Dean Craig's screenplay by peppering it
with hip-pop pop-culture nods to Usher and R. Kelly, and leaving the
rest, in essence, unchanged. On one hand, I appreciate the sentiment in
that it doesn't presume to outdo its progenitor, but that's its problem
as a standalone piece: it's either identical or inferior in every
conceivable way. As such, the majority of its first-time audience will
probably appreciate the comedic build-up having not been spoiled on the
gags, and that's fine for right now, but it poses a potential dilemma,
say, ten years down the road.

When film buffs and historians look back on "Death at a Funeral" (which
they honestly have little reason to), the choice between the two
versions will be obvious. Plus, they'll have no idea who "Usher" is.

Likewise, even today I'd recommend a rental of the 2007 film over a
ticket to its 2010 counterpart, because, well, the original is the
original, and for all its faithfulness, the remake actually accentuates
what's lost in translation. The pop-culture one-liners clash with the
characters on the page, and leave them feeling half-formed and sloppy
on the screenAre we watching Chris Rock do what makes Chris Rock
hilarious, or are we seeing him play a repressed, introverted
protagonist? The answer, messily, is both.

On that level, there's a creative integrity to the original
performances that is impossible in LaBute's version. Martin Lawrence,
Danny Glover, Tracey Morgan, Zoe Saldana, Peter Dinklage, Luke Wilson,
and others comprise an undeniably talented cast that does an admirable
job performing characters that were written as upper-crust Englishmen,
but watching Rock sulk his way through the film makes it abundantly
clear that they're not being themselves.

There's also the not-so-insignificant matter of LaBute's bland
artisanship. In the past, he's been responsible for equally lifeless
big-screen adaptations of his own stage plays, and a spectacularly
poorly-received remake of "The Wicker Man"It begs the question, why
was he asked and trusted to shepherd this project? There's no single
performance in the film that feels particularly informed by his hand,
and LaBute fails to bring a single funny idea to the table. In adhering
so rigidly to "Funeral" prime, his remake is marked by an absence of
directorial and comedic vision.

I have no qualms with anyone who enjoyed "Death at a Funeral" for the
first time via the LaBute/Rock version. A lot of what made the British
comedy memorable has survived, and even with a jaded precognition of
the gags, I mined a couple laughs. However, the fatal flaw of the 2010
adaptation is that the 2007 version exists. It's not like it's
antiquated or anything; it's three years old.

Anyone with an open mind can still appreciate the original "Death at a
Funeral," and its immediate availability for less than the cost of a
night at the movies makes the 2010 remake quintessentially one
thingUnnecessary.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me cut it short. There was a refreshing, funny, utterly lovable and
enjoyable death - comedy titled Death at a Funeral. It's not even
outdated, came out a couple of years ago. This movie tries to live up
to the original English comedy, but despite the brilliant actors like
Glover and David, it doesn't succeed. It actually made every mistake a
remake can make, therefore the original remains brilliant and this one
is just a weak copy. Sad, but true. They tried, even tried hard, I
admit, but there are things that best remain untouched. Death at a
Funeral is one of them. It's a nice try, but will disappear
undocumented, unlike the original one that remains a fine example of
English black humor.

My recommendation: Watch that one instead.
<|_=00=_|>
Go and see the recent original film 'Death at a Funeral,' the British
version, hilarious. It is a black comedy, which isn't depressing but is
light hearted fun of the almost delicious Charles Addams school of
macabre humour.

I can only surmise the US film industry thinks US viewers too thick or
insular to watch a comedy in the same language with a (nowadays)
slightly different accent. 

If you aren't as puddle headed as they've assumed, see the original and
laugh yourself sick, as I did. PS it so far has got 7. something on
IMDb... enough said, you'll be pleased you did. What's more the whole
family can enjoy this one without boring anyone at all let alone to
death.
<|_=00=_|>
If you have seen the 2007 version, you will probably go to sleep
watching this crap! They even copied off the lines...

from http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0795368/

absolute crap man!

Seriously!

You got these people, trying desperately to copy of an originally made
movie, my advise, don't even download the DVDRip for free man! waste of
bandwidth! Who make the same movie 3yrs later man, seriously! What sort
of demented joke is this, unless the producer and actors were gaining
some income tax benefits by making some crap sound expensive...
<|_=00=_|>
I watched the original Death at a Funeral when it first came out and
thoroughly enjoyed it, however this remake, though possessing arguably
greater star power fails to live up to it's predecessor. in my opinion,
it misses the mark completely, and was absolutely unnecessary. I know
everyone has different taste, but this was just bad. Bad Bad Bad. It is
difficult to give an unbiased review seeing as how I have watched the
original, but this to me has just highlights how substandard this film
is. It is as if Hollywood was trying to prove a point, but failed
miserably. I have watched the original four times and still am able to
laugh throughout. This was just terrible. This brings me to the
question "why?" Who felt that this was necessary? I was gravely
disappointed with this film and I think an apology is due to it's
original writer and cast members for this atrocious remake!!.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about the funeral of a family man. the funeral turns out
to be very eventful with many surprises.

"Death at a Funeral" is almost the same as the British original, be it
the title or the plot. The British one was really funny, I remember
myself laughing very hard when I watched it. This remake, is mildly
funny, but it is just in a different league. It uses cheap humour to
make people laugh, and it lacks the witty dialog of the original.
Moreover, characters are less sympathetic and more annoying in this
remake. Despite a few funny moments, I would stay "Death at a Funeral"
is an uninspired remake of a great comedy. 

Maybe filmmakers will bear in mind that remaking such a recent film in
the same language with the same plot is not such a good idea, as it
will inevitably draw comparisons between the original and the remake.
<|_=00=_|>
Very talented comedic cast...unfortunately the material and character
development were lacking. I only chuckled a couple times at best.

Hopefully, if Chris Rock, Martin Lawrence,Tracy Morgan and Luke Wilson
(some of the funniest and most talented),should have the opportunity to
perform together again, it will be in a screenplay that will play to
their talents, not confine them in characters that are stereo-types.

Loretta Devine...an amazing talent as seen briefly on television's Eli
Stone, was used minimally and not to her full potential.

Danny Glover...played an erasable old codger, once again,character not
fully developed. 

Example: James Marsden's character consumed a hallucinogenic
unbeknownst to him, so when Peter Dinklage's character & Danny Glover's
character also had consumed a hallucinogenic the effects of the
hallucinogenic seemed over the top for James Marsden's character
"Oscar", and Peter Dinklage's character had quite a few more pills and
yet had a more subdued reaction. Finally Danny Glover's character who
was physically immobile somehow managed to end up naked on the roof
after consuming the hallucinogenic. 

This wouldn't be that big of a deal had it not been one the integral
'sight gags' involving Tracy Morgan with Danny Glover's character
earlier in the film.

Bored to death by Death at a Funeral!
<|_=00=_|>
It's unfortunate watching a talented cast not live up to their
considerable talents. This is why Death At A Funeral, a remake of the
2007 British farce is so unfortunate. While the funny, talented cast
does what they can and produce their fair share of laughs, they don't
live up to their considerable talents nor does the film live up to its
original. I think the reason I actually kind of enjoyed this is because
I view the 2007 version and this version as two completely different
films, but it's hard not to compare the 2 if you walk into this version
having already seen the 2007 version. I'm happy that this story is
getting a wider audience because the script is brilliant. A cast
including Martin Lawrence, Regina Hall, Columbus Short, Chris Rock, Zoe
Saldana, Luke Wilson, Danny Glover, Peter Dinklage, Keith David,
Loretta Divine, Ron Glass, Tracy Morgan, James Marsden, and Kevin Hart
create a better than average comedy, but not the comedy this talented
cast could of created. I really liked the cast and did laugh at this
more than at something like, say, The Bounty Hunter. I'm sure a lot of
people are gonna like this, but, unless you have not seen the original,
and in that case, do not know there was an original, you can wait for
video, or better yet, skip it.
