
'Moby Dick' is the well known adventure of a whaling ship and its crew,
relentlessly hunting the legendary white whale that had been a
proverbial thorn in any whaling expedition. But before Herman Melville
wrote his most famous piece of work in 1850, the American author had
received the inspiration for his classic from a real life whaling
expedition thirty years prior. The true story of the Essex and its crew
reverberated around the world and had the potential to destroy the
whale oil industry at a time when the precious commodity was the
'electricity' of the day. Its use in everyday life was common and was
the main source of heat and lighting in the nineteenth century. The
hunt for the rich oil saw large numbers of whaling ships spending years
at a time out at sea so the bright lights of towns and cities could
burn before the introduction of electricity. How far we have all come,
even from the recent past.

Ron Howard has always been a bankable Director. He has been at the helm
of some truly delightful films in recent memory and has rarely provided
the audience with a bad experience. His solid wisdom has enabled him to
deliver a film that is concrete without being spectacular. Charles
Leavitt's screenplay shadows that of the direction; it provides the
opportunity for deep dialogue without ever pushing the boundaries of
its cast, leaving the best performance to a CGI generated whale. Howard
has been able to create an authentic nineteenth century atmosphere,
with rich scenes full of all the wonderment's of a by-gone era but the
film on a whole seems to lack an emotional impact that Herman
Melville's story was able to achieve. 'Moby Dick' seemed to have an
excitable expectation about it where as 'In the Heart of the Sea'
failed to deliver any really memorable moments. This is not to say that
Ron Howard's film is not watchable, it just has been unable to conjure
up anything new.

The narrative focuses on the booming whaling industry out of Nantucket
and its heavy reliance on whale oil to provide the energy that society
needs to live through their everyday lives. The whaling ship 'Essex' is
the pride of the fleet and has been commissioned for a new expedition
for the growing need of the priceless liquid. The story is told through
the eyes of Thomas Nickerson (Brendan Gleeson), who is the last
survivor of the fateful adventure that took place thirty years before.
His narration is for the benefit of Herman Melville (Ben Whishaw) who
is compelled to write about the story. Nickerson centres his narration
around Owen Chase (Chris Hemsworth), the second in command of the Essex
and a man that was born to be a whale-man. Chase is respected by his
crew and is good enough to be the Captain in his own right but lacks
the heritage to demand such a post. George Pollard (Benjamin Walker) is
given the task of commanding the Essex and it isn't long before his
personality clashes with that of Chase.

Through heavy storms, potential mutiny and misdirection, the Essex and
its crew struggle to make the quota of three thousand barrels of oil
needed for a successful voyage. With hope quickly turning to doubt,
morale is boosted with a story of infinite whale sighting's a thousand
miles from land and the chance for the crew to meet the demands of
their employers. once the Essex reaches its location they are
confronted by a monster that they have never encountered before; a
sperm whale with white markings that is one hundred feet long and full
of vengeance. It doesn't take a genius to know what happens next but
the aftermath leaves both Pollard and Chase with memories that changes
the course of their lives.

This is the whales film and the gigantic beast's on screen presence is
what the audience wants to see. He makes an absolute mess of the Essex
and hauntingly stalks the survivors as they float in small boats in the
vastness of the Pacific knowing that they are all at the whale's mercy.

Brendan Gleeson is always good to watch and puts in a solid performance
as the older Thomas Nickerson. Ben Whishaw is a star of the future and
does credit to his role in a safe performance as the famous Melville.
Chris Hemsworth is trying to spread his acting wings by expanding his
appeal to the powers that be. The big Aussie hunk is doing his best to
become a bankable leading man but the jury is still out as to whether
he has the screen presence to successfully become the film star that we
all want him to be. He can act but I feel at times that he is left
behind by more accomplished craftsmen.

'In the Heart of the Sea' is a curious film. See it once and enjoy what
it has to offer but 'Moby Dick' it ain't. The audience does get an
insight into the extremities of an industry that was once the life
blood of human civilisation. There is a scene that could be confronting
to those viewers with a weak stomach as the Essex crew go about
extracting the oil from the harmless beasts of the ocean but luckily
this is only seen once although vital in the context of the narrative.
<|_=00=_|>
It is said that we understand more about space than our own sea,
although one thing both realms have in common is the propensity to
convey epic journeys to silver screen. There's an inherent romantic
feel to maritime life, even as a tragic showing like Life of Pi or
Titanic. This is the same attribute "In the Heart of the Sea" has, and
even though there are minor blemishes, it still produces a good human
drama shown by impeccable visual atmosphere.

This is a retelling of a particular ship's ordeal, also an inspiration
for the novel Moby Dick. It is told from an account of then young crew
member, he now tells the story of adventure and misery in his older
days. While it's a good ground for characterization and set-up, it
might overhype its own story and break the pacing slightly.
Fortunately, Brendan Gleeson and Michelle Fairley are capable enough to
maintain their own mini subplot.

The actual voyage consists of two leads, Owen Chase (Chris Hemsworth)
and George Pollard (Benjamin Walker). Owen is a veteran sailor, who is
promised a captain seat, but ultimately denied of the right because of
nepotism favoring George. The two collides frequently, and more than
once their dispute ends up bringing malady to the ship and its crew.

Chris Hemsworth is a great actor, however this is not the same level of
rivalry he had in Rush. It is by no fault of Benjamin Walker who does
try to fulfill the role, but he doesn't portray the personality clash
of an epic saga. In fact, Hemsworth has more connection with Gillian
Murphy, the third in command, even though they have lesser screen time
together. The rest of the crew isn't compelling enough, in exception of
young Nickerson who will eventually narrates it.

For most part the visual is splendid, mainly when it transcends the
barrier between sea line and underwater. On some scenes it pans out so
nicely it brings an alluringly harrowing view of ocean, its human
drifters and beastly occupants. It has overall bluish tone that keeps
the cold isolation vibe while the gigantic whale, though we know it's
CG as whale is too much of a diva to work with, is still pretty
convincing in close up.

Plot keeps a straightforward momentum, although it may be inconsistent
sometimes. There are parts where it seems to dawdle for ten or fifteen
minute more than needs be, while some scenes are cut short and
ultimately feels disjointed. It's not a big issue, but it does make the
story skips rather abruptly or plods at times.

In the Heart of the Sea is an interesting excursion with fine visual.
Granted, it doesn't navigate well enough under some waves, yet this
homage to a great classic has its enchanting and inspiring moments.
<|_=00=_|>
If you don't count his Dan Brown films, it has been a very long time
since Ron Howard has made anything less than a solid entertaining film
and this is no exception. Based on a true story that inspired Herman
Melville's Moby Dick ITHOTS begins with Melville meeting up with the
only still surviving member of the Whale Ship Essex, played by the
always excellent Brenden Gleeson. Melville pays him to finally describe
the events of 30 years earlier when he was a 14 year old crew member on
his maiden voyage.I won't go into how it bugged me that using the
historical time line. Gleeson could not have yet turned 50, because I
am one of only a few geeks who would dwell on that. 

I think this is Hemsworth's best role if for no other reason he does
the DeNiro Raging Bull thing to his body. The characters starve at sea
and it is hard to believe that CGI is not heavily involved with his
appearance at the end of the film, but from what I have read apparently
not. If Howard had made this film a decade ago, Russell Crowe would
have had the Hemsworth role as the first mate. But Hemsworth does as
well as I could have imagined Crowe in the role, and that is a
compliment to his maturing as an actor.

A lot of interesting stuff about Whaling and the film is beautifully
shot. I have a feeling that fans of the book will be a bit disappointed
because it seems that certain aspects of the book were probably glossed
over. If you want to see it in IMAX (which was not offered at my
screening and which I thought was surprising and disappointing) then
you had better catch this opening week. Something tells me that another
film opening the following week is apt to hog up all the IMAX screens
for a few weeks. I hope that does not hurt the box office for this film
too, because it is a big screen epic. 

My wife would not go with me because she did not want to see the
cruelty to the whales, and there are some terrifically filmed and
exciting hunting scenes, but I am one of those that kind of rooted for
the whales as well. Heck, at the end of the day, one might say the
Whale won.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into the cinema expecting something fairly decent. Something
that would at the very least, satisfy. I I was more wrong than I
thought. It was better than satisfactory. It was brilliant. The Effects
are the best of the year, and Chris Hemsworths Acting is top notch. Ron
Howard has always been a great director, and I did enjoy a beautiful
mind and Apollo 13, but this film has to be one of the greatest of the
year. The film is very emotional at times, and the storyline is very
well thought out. Definitely deserves an Oscar for best visual effects,
and hopefully it will bag some more Oscars on the way. 

The movie is best viewed on the big screen, as it possibly wouldn't
have the same effect on a TV. Get into the cinemas before it's too
late.
<|_=00=_|>
Heart of the Sea is a mass-produced still-life painting: technically
proficient but as flat as the canvas it's on. Technically, it's fine;
the cinematography is interesting, the actors hit their marks, the
sound is on point. But other than a few moments of nice humor and mild
sea-faring thrills, the film lacks any spark. It's like director Howard
and co. weren't that interested in creating an emotional, cerebral or
exciting film, but more focused on simply getting the job done. The
story of 19th century whaler Owen Chase (played by an oddly-accented
Hemsworth), the influence for the literary classic Moby Dick, is a
story worth knowing. However, the giant scale and obsession inherent in
this tale is never fully conveyed, as Howard opts for computers and
green screens, in lieu of the actual sea, to tell his story. So instead
of a propulsive thriller or even a thoughtful psychological study, we
get a generic and forgettable action/adventure, couched in boring
characters. And much like the crew of the Essex itself, we are stranded
in a seemingly endless sea of lackluster storytelling It also features
some of the worst cinematic framing ever. Instead of just filming Moby
Dick itself or just the story of real-life Owen Chase, they opt for a
messy mash-up, constantly cutting away from the Essex's voyage to a
recounting of the story to Melville; like bad narration taken to the
nth degree. Even some marginally compelling moments showing the
survival instincts of desperate people can't save this sinking ship.
Watch Jaws, All is Lost, or Master and Commander if you want to take a
worthwhile trip to the heart of the sea.
<|_=00=_|>
yes, some movies get released in India even before US/UK. this is one
such movie which got released one week before US. 

I went for the movie more for nature, graphics and 3D of Whale, but as
a sweet surprise, the director took more time in depicting characters
and their feelings rather than spending time on Whale or graphics,
which is a welcome change, considering we having lots of movies with CG
now a days.

as i said in the summary, it is a movie at the right pace, brooding,
dark and desolate at times but nevertheless beautiful.

beautiful how the bickering relationship between captain and his first
mate changes into a influencing r.ship in the end is lovely. 

should i say ? must watch.

many viewers from IMDb yet to watch this movie, so no spoiler from my
side ! enjoy the survival of the fittest and the people who have hope
to survive any situation !!

swim in the lovely emotions director created
<|_=00=_|>
'In the Heart of the Sea' is not 'Moby Dick'. Instead, it is based on
Nathaniel Philbrick's non-fiction book of the same name, which was
itself drawn from real events surrounding the Nantucket whaling ship
Essex that was allegedly sunk by a giant sperm whale in the western
Pacific on November 20, 1820. Out of the 21 men who made it out alive,
only eight eventually survived the ordeal in the open sea, and there
are accounts from two  one, the ship's first mate Owen Chase; and two,
a 14-year-old cabin boy named Thomas Nickerson who waited 55 years to
write his side of the story which ended up lost until 1980.

Even though young Melville's (Ben Whishaw) interview with the truculent
Nickerson (Brendan Gleeson) bookends the film, let it first be known
that these scenes are in fact fiction, for there is no way that the
real-life Melville could have access to Nickerson's memoir, since the
book 'Moby Dick' was published in 1851. Notwithstanding that it is a
classical framing device for a tall tale, there is no denying that
these portions are redundant and quite the unnecessary distraction in
between critical points of the Essex's doomed voyage, redeemed only
somewhat by Gleeson's performance of such dignity and sadness at the
dire circumstances that he had to confront in order to survive on few
provisions for 90 days.

It is Gleeson's narration that brings us back to 1820 Nantucket, where
we are first introduced to Chris Hemsworth's Chase, a proud whaler
excited at the prospect of commanding his own ship. Alas, its business
owners who had before promised Owen his boat decide to make him
nursemaid Pollard (Benjamin Walker), whose only qualification is that
his father is the company's patron. Despite his frustration and his
wife's (Charlotte Riley) reservations about that particular expedition,
Owen eventually sets sail with George and the rest of the crew, which
includes his best friend Matthew Joy (Cillian Murphy), the young
Nickerson (Tom Holland, or soon-to-be 'Spidey'), and George's cousin
Owen Coffin (Frank Dillane).

As expected, tension soon builds between the experienced first mate and
the inexperienced but eager-to-prove-himself captain. In the first of
three major action sequences, George orders the Essex to sail head on
into a squall against Owen's advice as a test of mettle for the crew,
an ill decision that almost capsizes the ship and seemingly pits the
two men squarely against each other. Thrilling as that setup may be,
Charles Leavitt's screenplay gives the officer- versus-officer conflict
short shrift in the later acts.

Losing no momentum, Owen soon chances upon the sound of whales exhaling
air through their blowholes; how Owen and his men kill and capture a
full-grown male is shown in exhilarating detail, as much as the later
operation to harvest its fats for oil is displayed in full gory glory
(especially a sequence where the young Nickerson is thrust down a hole
in the whale's head to scoop out the prized sperm oil). Yet, bad luck
immediately after forces George to bring the Essex into uncharted
waters to hunt for pods, and the last of the big-bang sequences you'll
get is the encounter with the big one, described by a Spanish captain
the crew meet on a stopover at Atacames who lost his arm and six other
men as measuring almost 100 metres in length and whose hide is
alabaster white.

Howard and cinematographer Anthony Dod Mantle do not disappoint; that
single encounter is single-handedly the highlight of the entire film,
edge-of-your-seat gripping, breathtakingly staged, and enough to
silence the hubris of any man who thinks he is superior to Mother
Nature's creations. It ends with the Essex in flames and the surviving
crewmen in three whaleboats, and so begins a much more sombre and
deliberately paced final act which chronicles the harrowing aftermath,
with the men forced to brave storms, starvation, panic and despair. It
is here that we find out just what has been disturbing Nickerson all
these years  when staring starvation in the face, the men would be
forced to eat their dead shipmates or draw lots for one of them to be
sacrificed.

Hemsworth's dramatic weight loss to play a sunken Owen is clearly
evident, as is the dedication by the other cast members to portray
their characters' afflictions with utmost realism. Yet, coming after
films such as 'Castaway' or even 'Life of Pi', we'd be lying if we said
it was new or surprising. Both of those movies however managed a deeper
emotional resonance because they gave us characters which we actually
care about, the same of which cannot be said here. Owen's obsession
with the giant whale that seems to be following them is never quite
explained, nor for the matter why the animal shown to evoke some sort
of mythical terror would do so. How the friction between Owen and
George gives way to mutual respect is also glossed over, and the same
goes for the discord between George and his cousin whom the former
lectures earlier for abusing familial privilege.

In the absence of more compelling character drama, all we are left with
is an old-fashioned seafaring adventure and an ageless tale of men
forced to do the unthinkable in order to survive the odds of nature.
Being the consummate storyteller he is, Howard excels in both regards,
and there is never a dull moment in his film. Yet, as much as this
story of ordinary men pitted against their own moral fiber fits
squarely within Howard's oeuvre, it ultimately comes up much less
because it fails to define the men themselves, or their raison d'etre
for going at each other. Ironically, 'In the Heart of the Sea' could do
with a lot more heart at its core, seeing as how it wants to be more,
much more, than just the battle with the whale that was 'Moby Dick'.
<|_=00=_|>
In the Heart of the Sea tells the true story of the Essex, a whaling
ship. In 1820, while first mate Owen Chase(Chris Hemsworth), captain
George Pollard(Benjamin Walker) & the rest of the crew were searching
for whales in the middle of the ocean, they encounter a gigantic sperm
whale. This gigantic whale causes the Essex to sink. Now, it is up to
Owen Chase & the rest of his crew to somehow survive the harsh
conditions at sea. They will also have to be alert for the return of
the whale. The true story of this movie, inspired Herman Melville's(Ben
Whishaw) famous novel, Moby Dick. 

In the Heart of the Sea is a spectacular film. The CGI is perfect & the
whales in the movie look extremely realistic & intimidating. The 3D
works really well in all the scenes involving the whales & the chaos &
destruction set pieces. However, it is unnecessary for the emotional
scenes of the movie. Director Ron Howard perfectly captures the
suffering of all the crew members of the Essex. He makes sure that the
movie is not just about the special effects & adventure but, also adds
dramatic set pieces. One flaw of the movie is the lack of character
development. Despite everything they go through, you don't genuinely
care about the fate of all the characters in the movie. You only care
about, Chris Hemsworth's character, Tom Holland's character, Cillian
Murphy's character & to a certain extent, Benjamin Walker's character.
At the end of the day, this is not a major flaw because, you can't give
each & every character a detailed back-story. This would have
unnecessarily elongated the duration of the movie. Chris Hemsworth has
given the best performance of his career, as Owen Chase. Hemsworth's
dramatic weight loss for the film, shows the dedication & hard work he
has put in for his role. Benjamin Walker is great as George Pollard.
Cillian Murphy is brilliant as Matthew Joy. Brendan Gleeson is good as
Tom Nickerson. Ben Whishaw is wonderful as Herman Melville. Tom Holland
is outstanding as Thomas Nickerson. Frank Dillane is superb as Owen
Coffin. The supporting characters are impressive too. In the Heart of
the Sea is a must watch. Go for it!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a high quality sea faring adventure movie, apparently based on
a true event. I am glad to highly recommend the film as the whole
production is first class and to fully appreciate the picture better to
view it at the movie house rather than the likes of DVD. As for example
the spectacular ocean scenes are at their best on the big screen.

In around 1820 huge profits were available to shipping companies for
catching whales mainly for their sperm. One such company had an
important whale hunting expedition but for selfish motives employed an
inexperienced ship's captain, whilst the second in command ought to
have been in charge. That fatal error leads to disastrous consequences.
Indeed it was this story which led to the subsequent fictional classic
book Moby Dick. 

The movie for me captures the time period perfectly as the production
and design is meticulous even down to the accents and language spoken.
I felt I was transported to the 1820's and beyond.

An excellent cinema experience! 

7 and a half rounded up:

8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
In the Heart of the Sea is an Action/Adventure/Biopic based on the real
disaster that inspired Herman Melville's 'Moby-Dick'. The film follows
the voyage of the 'Essex', a whaling ship that was bought down in 1820
by a Sperm Whale in the South Pacific, and is a tale of Adventure,
Drama, Survival and Boredom. Obviously the main reason I and most other
people wanted to go and see this movie was to see this massive whale go
toe to toe with the Essex and its crew. Actual confrontations with the
whale in this film were few and far between but when they happen, man
do they make an impact. This whale was ginormous, he was grand and it
was such a spectacle seeing this huge beautiful whale on screen. The
way they emphasise his size through juxtaposing him with the boats
gives his presence much more weight. Confrontations with the whale were
intense and serious edge-of-seat stuff. The CGI effects of this whale
were beautiful and incredibly detailed. This would have taken up a huge
chunk of the budget as making this whale look as realistic as possible
was crucial to the enjoyment of the film. Some of the CGI in the wide
shots were well done, but there were still quite a few scenes and wide
shots throughout the film, especially in Nantucket that really just
didn't look right and did take me out of the film.

The film's biggest problem over the entire film was the pacing and the
negative effect that had on my overall enjoyment of the film. This was
a lot of the time a very slow film, especially at the beginning where
the first 20 minutes or so was very dreary and quite boring. Throughout
the film there are quite a few uninteresting moments that constantly
just make you lose interest. The biggest culprit of these boring sleep
inducing moments were the scenes that are showing Thomas Nickerson
(Brendan Gleeson) recounting the events of the film to Herman Melville.
Scenes like this are nothing new and have been done in countless films
before this, but they were just completely uninteresting and didn't
really add anything to the actual story of the film. I guess they were
trying to get us to care about his character and his younger self for
what he endured but for me at least i could have done without those
scenes and it would have cut at least 15 minutes of its long 2 hour
runtime and the film would have flowed better and quicker. There was
one bit of dialogue early on that i thought spoiled how the film was
going to end, but it was a very good piece of misdirection by the
writers, if it was intentional. 

Acting wise, the film was pretty good. Chris Hemsworth was the obvious
standout, he was able to show off his acting talents quite a few times
throughout the film, but still it was nothing amazing. The supporting
cast was also mostly pretty strong, Benjamin Walker and our friendly
neighbourhood Tom Holland were good, not great, just good strong
performances. Ron Howard did a pretty good job directing the film, most
of the time he nailed the tone of the film. The dramatic action scenes
were filmed and directed in a very frantic and chaotic manner that
upped the stakes during those intense moments. Especially in the latter
portions of the film he does represent the sad tones and emotion pretty
well and handles some very confronting scenes in a way that isn't too
disturbing but also isn't sugar-coated. The latter half of the film
although not free of some boring moments does pick up significantly
from the first half when it introduces some survival elements. It
doesn't really end on a high note, it should have been a short and
sweet ending but it is dragged out a little longer and just ended up
being alright. 

In the end, this is an Action/Adventure that has its intense, dramatic
moments, but is not without some boring moments that if excluded could
have kept the film to like 1 hour and 40 minutes and would have made it
more enjoyable and impactful. If you are fascinated of the story of
Moby-Dick then you will probably get more out of the film than i did
but it really wasn't as great as it was meant to be. - 6/10

Also this film believe it or not was supposed to release way back in
March of 2015, but it was pushed back to December into Awards season to
possibly get some Oscar recognition. Should have stayed in March
because i'll be genuinely surprised if this even gets nominated for any
awards when you consider all of the other great stuff from this year.
