
It's easy to slam a movie like "Yogi Bear"- just talk about how
simplistic the script written by no less than three writers; or how
childish the antics are of the titular character and his cautious
sidekick, Boo-Boo; or even how repetitive pic-a-nic basket stealing
gets. Yes, they are all fair observations of this live-action
adaptation of the 1960s Hanna-Barbera cartoon, but I wouldn't go so far
as to criticise the movie for these very traits. 

If you've seen the Saturday morning cartoons, you'll find that this
film actually stays extremely faithful to its source. In them, Yogi
goes around doing perhaps one thing and one thing only- that's right,
stealing pic-a-nic baskets and thinking to himself how he's "smarter
than the average bear"- together with Boo-Boo, occasionally running
into Jellystone National Park's head ranger Smith who yells at him for
disturbing the peace. 

We used to laugh at Yogi's foolish schemes (or at least I remember I
did), so why is it so difficult to laugh at the same things all over
again? Sure many of us who have enjoyed those cartoons may have grown
up, but that's not a fault of the film, especially when those in the
audience who were of the age when we were watching the cartoons were
obviously having a great time. 

Around the regular pic-a-nic stealing, writers Jeffrey Ventimilia,
Joshua Sternin and Brad Copeland have spun an eco-friendly story of the
unscrupulous town mayor (Andrew Daly) who aims to sell off Jellystone
to the loggers to cover the city's deficit. Needless to say, it will be
up to Ranger Smith, his love interest the nature documentarian Rachel
(Anna Faris), and of course Yogi and Boo-Boo to save the day. Yes it's
simple but the plot is just serviceable enough to be the glue this
live-action treatment needs. 

Ultimately, the stars of the show were always Yogi and Boo-Boo, and in
this regard, both the voice actors and the animators have done a
wonderful job. Dan Aykroyd does his best Daws Butler impersonation for
Yogi Bear, most impressive for nailing his character's distinctive
speech patterns. Just as outstanding is Justin Timberlake, clearly
relishing the opportunity to disappear into the role of Boo-Boo,
complete with the trademark nasal delivery. It's especially interesting
to think how Timberlake sounds so uncannily like the classic Don
Messick. 

Director Eric Brevig (of 2008's "Journey to the Centre of the Earth")
keeps the gags flying fast and furious, so even if some of the supposed
verbal punchlines fall flat, there is always something visually
appealing to hold your attention. An Oscar-nominated effects
specialist, Brevig makes great use of the stereoscopy to deliver all
sorts of visual gimmicks- whether something flying in your face or
hurling you along- but it adds nicely to the fun. 

And that's one word that sums up what it's all meant to be about-
"fun", good clean harmless fun like how the cartoons were 40 years ago,
and a trip down memory lane for those who have seen the originals.
There'll be many tempted to ride the wave of criticism surrounding this
movie, but if you know what you're in for, then "Yogi Bear" should just
be the perfect family entertainment this holiday season.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all if you are going to see this film you probably already
know what you are getting yourself into. This is a really really really
dumb movie featuring Yogi Bear and Boo Boo voiced by Dan Aykroyd and
Justin Timberlake respectively. There is no substance at all what so
ever in this movie, therefore, sit back, relax, become a kid again and
enjoy the antics of Yogi Bear and Boo Boo. The movie begins with the
picnic basket nabbing antics of the renowned cartoon character Yogi
Bear and his partner in crime Boo Boo at Jellystone Park. They are
constantly messing with Ranger Smith (Tom Cavanagh) who they call Mr.
Ranger and scaring campers away. Documentary filmmaker Rachel (Anna
Faris) arrives in order to shoot a project by attaching a camera to Boo
Boo's bow-tie. All is normal until Mayor Brown (Andrew Daly) decides to
sell Jellystone Park to loggers in order to save the town from
bankruptcy and help him with his campaign for governor. However, Yogi
and Boo Boo have something to say about this and team up with Ranger
Smith and Rachel in order to stop Mayor Brown plot and save the park.

The movie itself isn't very good nor is it supposed to be very good and
the fact that the creators recognized this while making the film makes
the film a lot of fun. Yogi Bear and Boo Boo are the best part of the
film and are laugh out loud hilarious. They aim for the ridiculous and
do the craziest things that are very entertaining. Dan Aykroyd and
Justin Timberlake were perfect choices for the parts of Yogi Bear and
Boo Boo. They help the film avoid any sappy emotional drama and just
have some childhood fun. The film is also very short and therefore it
does not overstay it's welcome. The film just tells the story and makes
you laugh without really worrying about anything.

The film isn't worth paying fourteen dollars to see in 3D and is very
forgettable because it lacks any originality what so ever. Also, all of
the actors really do not add anything to the film except a small clich√©
romantic relationship between Ranger Smith and Rachel. The bad guys are
very annoying as they usually are these kinds of movies. Also there
really isn't a plot or at least a plot that you really care about. The
writing is terrible, but yet again you aren't seeing the film for that.

This is a great kids movie that isn't scary at all and could probably
even be rated G. I actually do recommend seeing the film, but you
should probably wait to see it in the cheaper movie theaters or wait
for DVD unless you want a really safe movie to take a kid to. (Save
your money and do not see it in 3D)
<|_=00=_|>
Why would anyone who watches a movie like this expect there to be some
sort of plot. The review I saw for this is dumb. Obviously , the critic
has never seen the cartoon version of Yogi Bear or he would know that
it is supposed to be random. It's a silly pair of characters. That is
what makes this movie so good. Yogi and Boo Boo have always been silly
characters. I mean if you expected this to be like a regular movie,
then you need to get into another line of work. That's like anyone that
saw the Rocky and Bullwinkle movie and thought it was supposed to be
serious or something. The movie was goofy because, if you ever watched
the cartoon, it was goofy too. That is what made it so damn funny. Come
on. Get with the program.
<|_=00=_|>
I am wondering why so many people come with criticism on this movie.
First of all, this is a kids movie, based in a cartoon created in 1958.
I watched that so many times, I am 24 years old and I still love watch
it. I love the clear and simple jokes and how all the story goes
around, well, I rather see Yogy Bear (movie or cartoon) than have to
see aliens becoming children, robots, creatures that I never heard
about. Because this is what keeps our kids on TV now days, when its not
the video game. So, please, people that come to criticize, please, go
find a movie where you find something interesting for yourselves. But
don't come here with your awful words for something that makes so many
kids laugh through decades. Its not fair, its not nice. Yogy bear will
be in my memory forever and I am pleased that the movie made the best
that could do.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was fun to watch from beginning to end. I haven't seen any
of the cartoons yet, so I couldn't compare it. This would be a perfect
summer movie, and clean fun for the whole family. Yogi and Boo Boo are
adorable and hilarious together. They live in Jellystone Park and often
cause trouble for Ranger Smith when they try and steal pic-a-nic
baskets. When the evil Mayor Brown orders Jellystone to shut down, it's
up to Yogi and Boo Boo to stop him. Along the way, Ranger Smith falls
for a woman named Rachel who happens to be a documentary filmmaker.
Don't listen to the critics, or the haters. I highly recommend YOGI
BEAR!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie fulfilled all the expectations I had. I grew up watching
dubbed Yogi Bear cartoons and I am kind of a fan of that kind of humor.
Simplistic yet profound in some way, and always with a very positive
attitude. That is exactly what this movie delivers. Plain old simple
jokes for everybody, kids and parents.

If, like myself, you're a fan of Yogi Bear you won't be disappointed.
Indeed this was the best carton to big screen adaptation I've seen. If
you didn't use to watch the cartoon, then I don't know what your
expectations might be, but I noticed most of the people are expecting
what this movie is not.

The movie is very laid back. Photography and scenes are also very fresh
and so is the cast performance. The cast fits the characters very well
and gets the job done, there's no intense dramatic dialogs, but keep in
mind that this is kid movie. The interaction between Yogi (and his
faithful friend Booboo) and Ranger Smith is the cornerstone of Yogi
Bear. The are friends and enemies at the same time. This passes a very
positive message to the kids and the movie does it in a very faithful
way, just like it was done in the cartoons. The other most
characteristic aspect Yogi is his obsession for human food. Again, that
is well featured in the movie.

A disturbing yet positive thing about this movie is the realism of the
Town Mayor character's personality. It's supposed to be a caricature,
but is a very accurate one.

Finally, computer generated characters and living ones work very well
on this movie. Unlike most of the movies that resource to this mix, the
cartoon characters blend well with the rest of the scene.

Great entertainment for all the family with some classic Yogi jokes.
<|_=00=_|>
Not that a review should be about ME, but it seems to help with the
review a little. I haven't reviewed a film in a long time, probably
because I have been busy getting married and having kids. With that
being said, I don't really see too many movies anymore and needless to
say, this was NOT tops of my list. If I finally get to see a movie, I
prefer an adult film, but alas, I have children. I got on here before
hand and was even less than ecstatic about Yogi given the reviews and
the star rating.

However, so many of them were so far off, that I felt inclined to write
this review the same night after seeing this movie. First off, for
those that review and/or rate a movie like this without having seen it
is quite silly and hinders the reasoning behind the rating itself.
Ratings are to help people, not skew them. 

OK, on to the film. This is a legitimate PG moving for children, i.e.
under 10, so take that into consideration. Someone in a rating said it
was not a movie they would take a date on . . . really? I mean, I would
hope not. Anyway, I have seen lots of kids and young adult movies with
far less plot and acting than this movie.

I thought it was perfect for the age bracket and while yes, there is a
mention about urination and about Boo Boo having trouble with baked
beans, other than that, I was actually quite impressed that the movie
survived without a bunch of potty humor. I thought it was a lightly
funny film that stuck to the entire Yogi Bear theme of trying to save
the park. I thought while some of the adults were silly to stupid, many
of them were again, lightly funny and silly but not over the top
stupid. Mentioning the word "stupid" also brings me to another thought
that the movie wasn't filled with boring dialog of people calling each
other silly names that make kids laugh, but irk parents knowing now
after the film their kids are going to be calling each other those
names and we will be left with trying to tell them why that is
inappropriate.

I actually laughed quite a bit and enjoyed seeing Yogi. I am 34 years
old and my daughter is 3 that was with me and we liked it. I could even
watch it again. I've seen bad films of all ages and genres and this is
NOT one of them. Is it academy award material? Not even close, but you
won't be disappointed in an entertaining film for children.

Again about the silly reviewers,if you don't like it, no biggie and it
is your perogrative to also write a review, they are needed, but why
the lies in writing a review? Bored to tears in 10 minutes? Yogi
getting hurt all the time? keep it lighthearted? How about paying
attention. If there is any major complaint, it should be that this
movie was nothing more than a glorified version of the cartoon, but
that is what one would expect. Have you never seen the Yogi Christmas
special. You know, the one where Ranger Smith tells Yogi to stay away
and where the place is going to be forced to close and all the animals
are sad? Sound familiar, hmm.

Now, for my final soap box that does make me mad. This dumb 3D is not
all that impressive and given the extra added cost to go see one, it is
NOT worth it. While there is a non-3D version, the theaters don't
really want to play that one too much, because they can't charge the
exuberant fee. I will for a fact plan ahead next time better and NOT do
the 3D film and make sure I send a statement, although minimal it is.
<|_=00=_|>
When reviewing a family movie, I look at it a few different ways:
first, is it appropriate for my three kids; second, is it entertaining
to me and my kids; and third, is there a decent storyline. I didn't see
Yogi Bear in theaters and I am glad I didn't spend money, for a family
of five, on tickets and concession items that go with taking my family
to a big screen showing. However, I think this is one of the more
appropriate and enjoyable family movies that I have seen in years. Yogi
made me laugh and it was just long enough to keep my kids attention for
the entire movie. The story line is basic and not to deep, which helps
to keep the kids' attention. As a dad, I appreciate not having to
explain everything to them and am able to enjoy the movie myself. I
thought Dan Aykroyd's voice work on Yogi was over acted and made to
sound like the cartoon I grew up on, but after a few scenes you get
used to it. Justin Timberlake, as you would expect him to be, was funny
voicing Boo Boo. Tom Cavanagh, as the abused Ranger Smith, was a clean
cut likable character similar to the character he portrayed on the T.V.
show ED, on which he starred. Anna Faris's part although limited, fit
in the movie's overall context. T.J Miller, Nathan Corddry and Andrew
Daly were entertaining fodder to Yogi's antics.

I watched this movie with my kids and I can't remember a part where at
least one of them was not laughing. To me, that's all you can ask for
in a family movie; no swearing, no violence, just good old fashioned
Yogi Bear Fun. This is a movie that I will be buying for the
collection.

Grade: A+

visit our site at www.twodudereview.com
<|_=00=_|>
I don't really understand the negative reviews for this film. It was
exactly what you would expect a new film about Yogi Bear to be. If
you've ever watched Yogi Bear you know what you're going to get.
Nothing profound or complicated, just simple childish fun. Good acting,
great cgi, and loads of funny moments. What more do you want for
goodness sake. Dan Aykroyd and Justin Timberlake are excellent as Yogi
and Boo Boo, Anna Faris is just lovely as always, and Andrew Daly was
super creepy as the Mayor. Saw it in 2D not 3D so can't comment on
that. To summarise, it's Yogi Bear, not anything profound, or deep, or
stirring, just simple easy escapism. Forget about being an adult for an
hour and have some fun.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is good. I liked the setting, kid friendly acting and it was
very appropriate to bring a child to go watch and reasonably
entertaining for an adult. I found yogi to be a good facsimile and
though I will always prefer 2d animation I thought it was well done.

The plot is simple and easy enough to follow. The 2 faced nature of the
politician is a good life lesson not to trust anyone who smiles too
much. Andrew Daly as Mayor Brown was particularly well done and I found
him quite funny and evil. 

I felt Tom Cavanagh did fine as ranger smith and felt he was what you
would expect. Someone who forgives easily and just wants to concentrate
on the park and not the money.

I liked it, My 3 Year old daughter liked it and we had a good time
watching it. I would have no problem recommending it to other families.
