
The film can be approached from two angles; as a comedy and as an
important contemporary cultural text. As a comedy it succeeded beyond
expectations. Part of the pleasure surely came from the spectacle of
the event; a sold out screening with cast and crew present along with
regional cultural references that resonated infectiously with many in
the audience, but this can take nothing away from the many levels of
comedy at work within this film. There were elements of overacted
screwball comedy; there were underplayed facial expressions and
reactions that added a wealth of character and personality to the
comedy; further still, there were elaborately constructed situational
set pieces. All these elements along with explosively dynamic dialogue
that was well delivered combined to send the audience into tears of
laughter.

In a separate issue to the comedy there was the cultural commentary,
which is always going to draw attention when it is such a taboo subject
as Jihad: a word that is often avoided at all costs. The film
unapologetically offers a plethora of questions around motivation,
meaning and justification which it never falls into the trap of giving
patronizing, melodramatic answers to nor does it preach any solutions.

The many characters were all utilised to give different points of views
and different perspectives; the main protagonist Omar (Riz Ahmed) was
fully fleshed out, with the other characters used to offer differing
ideas and obviously the above mentioned comic relief. Omar's brother
for instance had such a minor part but raises questions around what he
considers a true following of Islam, which he promotes as peaceful, but
is then exposed as intrinsically sexist due to the way he practically
locks his wife in a cupboard. That being said, Islam itself was to a
large extent sidelined and the film much more overtly dealt with
identification and senses of belonging for a demographic that has
partial but not complete grips on the many angles of where its identity
is created; this includes Barry (Nigel Lindsay), the Caucasian convert
amongst the group.

Four Lions is easily funny enough to reach a very wide audience, where
viewers will be left without answers and therefore forced to discuss
these issues, which are too often brushed under the proverbial rug.

twitter - @destroyapathy
<|_=00=_|>
Like Charlie Chaplin's Hitler, Chris Morris' 'Four Lions' shows that no
subject can escape comic scrutiny; humour always seems to find the
ability to expose the ridiculous in otherwise appalling situations.
This satirical black comedy vents its disgust at the pseudo-morality of
suicide bombing, whilst managing to portray its terrorists with an
affection that allows the audience an unexpected emotional attachment
with these supposed figures of violence.

The film follows a terrorist cell of blundering, inept, and impossibly
stupid would-be suicide bombers on their quest towards martyrdom  we
follow them failing miserably in a Pakistan training camp, trying to
run through sheep fields whilst carrying bags of explosives, attaching
bombs to crows, all the time creating a chaotic 'blooper' reel of
attempted martyrdom videos. These suicide bombers are not the feared
assassins of popular imagination, but absurd and easily led dupes who
encourage laughter and ridicule  and significantly, in the end, pity.

The comedy of 'Four Lions' lies in the power of its bathos: the film
reduces the dreaded spectre of suicide bombing to a ludicrous pageant
of ineptitude. It's a film with fast laughs and dim wit in abundance,
an absurd 'How Not-To Guide' to martyrdom.

However, the audience cannot help but feel pity for the characters as
their plot reaches its climax. There is a sad inevitability to the
group's last moments together; despite the horror of what the bombers
are planning, the audience has been lulled into sympathising with their
situation. The sadness of the film comes with the audience's
realisation that these characters are regular, likable, funny, naive
people  they are not monsters in themselves, but made monstrous by
their susceptibility to absurd, immoral teachings.

The lead character Omar's interactions with his wife and young son are
painful in their twisted depiction of the ideal family unit. At one
point Omar (played by Riz Ahmed) tells his son a bedtime story about
'Simba's Jihad'. It is a scene that is touching, funny and
uncomfortable all at once, a reflection of our responses to the film as
a whole.

'Four Lions' is provocative in its comic parody of an emotional
subject, but there is never any sense that it wishes to be deliberately
inflammatory. Instead, the story is told with warmth and sharp humour;
it offers us a fine concoction of derision and sympathy, pulling at our
affections whilst cutting the terrifying down to the clownish.

James Gill ------ Find more reviews, news and previews at
www.singleadmission.co.uk
<|_=00=_|>
Chris Morris has never been one to shy away from subjects that others
would call taboo or simply just wrong and that isn't going to change
with his latest film 'Four Lions' the story of a group of wannabe
suicide bombers. Not the most jovial of subjects I hear you cry, but
how wrong could you be? For here we have not only a truly funny film
but also a poignant one and one of the best British films of the last
decade. Meticulous to detail Morris spent over five years researching
the films central themes of terrorism and religion and a lifetime of
studying human behaviour and it's only with this foundation that he,
along with co writers Sam Bain and Jesse Armstrong (Peep Show), could
have made such a brilliant film. You will laugh and hard, then you will
realise what it is you are laughing at take a breath and then laugh
some more. In the same way that the recent American remake of
Battlestar Galactica dealt in allegories of the war on terror, politics
and human nature but just happened to be set in space 'Four Lions' just
happens to be set in a terrorist cell and in his own admission Morris
admitted that he wanted to explore group dynamics that could be found
either in a football team, a club of sorts or the guys in this movie.
It is so cleverly done that at no point is the film patronising or
preachy it just makes you think about the absurd nature of how people
think and what lengths they will go to for something they believe in.
The film also contains some scenes of the gang spending normal time
with their families, even discussing their plans with the children and
it's in these scenes that we given over to the idea that they are
ordinary people about to do something extraordinary. The cast play
their roles, not only with great comic timing, but with an
understanding of the subject matter that reflects in their
performances. The script is so sharp that not only will you miss stuff
on first viewing you will be quoting it for months to come. It is well
shot and perfectly paced but let's not forget that this is satire of
the highest order and in that there will be elements that might not
appeal to all. But if you think you can stomach it then let me assure
you that you will see one of the funniest films from one of Britain's
most underrated and genuinely talented comedians. Rubber dingy rapids.
<|_=00=_|>
Chris Morris has had his fair share of approaching controversial
subjects such as the brilliant Brass Eye. I so wanted this to be an
hilarious film as it was a long time since I had really good laugh in
the cinema. Here is another social commentary this time on terrorism
and I was optimistic that this was going to be the laugh I was looking
for even if the subject is controversial. The actual terrorists though
are inept and have no real grasp of what they are trying to do.We
follow them making plans and deciding that they want to strike the
London Marathon. The question being asked all the time is can a film
about suicide bombers ever be funny? Well the answer to that question
in my view is yes because it is more about characters being so bad at
something and presenting themselves in a bizarre sense. They are
delivered in such an amusing manner that I couldn't help but laugh out
loud at the sheer lunacy. In comedy itself being generally stupid and
incompetent is something that in my view is extremely difficult to get
right and can easily escalate to farce. In Four Lions though the acting
is good enough and set up well enough that it doesn't feel like they
are just dumping situations on screen and putting in random moments
designed to gain comedic measure. One scene in particular when the
group are forced to carry their bombing equipment on foot after their
car breaks down. It has to be seen as it is just brilliant. In this the
scenes are set up and the comedy is delivered very well. The humour can
get quite dark and sick at times but not so much that it isn't funny
nonetheless. I can understand why some people would shun this film and
the humour is definitely not by all means universal but I would
recommend it as it is a funny satire that you may enjoy. It is quite
understandable if you don't though.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm no easy viewer and too often do I find myself being bored while
watching a movie, or just barely interested.

I wasn't expecting much from this one and after a quick reading of the
synopsis, I just thought "say whaat ?". As a reminder you might check
again the IMDb summary and try to picture it seriously, you would
expect some "sofa talking action" - as a friend would describe movies
that have more dialogs than action scenes.

Long story short : that is, without any doubts, the most stupidly funny
movie I've seen this year and if you haven't seen it already ... just
go (Ok to be honest, I would also put Revenge of the Fallen even if its
last year, the level of stupidity is clearly enough for a couple of
years).

Whatever you are looking in a movie this one will deliver, it is filled
with dumb-touching characters despite their "mission" as terrorists.
The acting is not only great as a comedy but just strait out great, any
one in the movie have something special and memorable.

Hell, you could even try to get a social commentary out of it but
that'd be a long stretch, it's meant to be a comedy with a soul not
just the usual "a few scenes funny and forget me next week" kind of
movie.

I was really pleased to find this gem completely by chance and hope you
will too as this is how comedy films are meant to be.
<|_=00=_|>
4 Lions is an excellent well thought out film with a great pace, very
funny, and very thoughtful.

After watching the film I wondered at some of the choices Morris had
made concerning the depth of the characters in the film and their
motivation. On reflection I could see the extremely clever and
thoughtful way that he had written the script. This film is a fantastic
means of attacking the media's paniced frenzy regarding Muslim
extremist's bomb attacks.

I went to this film with no more knowledge then 'it's a black comedy
about Muslim extremist bombers in Britain written and directed by Chris
Morris'. Although I have followed Chris Morris' work throughout his
television career. I didn't know what to expect at all - whether it
would work or not. Some friends who said they had seen the trailer for
it at the cinema said it didn't look that good. It proved to be very
good.

It entertains very well and holds your attention. But the depth of the
film is that after it you have plenty of thoughts on the subject matter
and they all encourage an open minded re-exploring of thoughts on the
Muslim communities in Britain and the media's frenzy around terrorism
and Muslim communities in Britain.

There are specific parts of the film which are so clever in how they
raise questions that I'd love to talk about them but I'd spoil the
film. I think that it's best to go see the film and enjoy it as great
entertainment. On the way out of the cinema all the issues involved
will be real food for thought.

One of the thoughts I had after leaving was that Chris Morris had
perhaps written this with the first audience in his mind as British
Muslims and not in any patronising or preaching way, but further
thought made me believe the film was for all English people
specifically. Undoubtedly this film can work internationally and is
well worth watching if you are from some other country. But it was
great that Morris had made no concessions to this so he could tell the
story the way he wanted to.

Other nationalities watching the film may well have trouble with some
of the dialogue but you'll be OK. Watch this film, it's undoubtedly the
most important film to come out of the UK for a very long time, and
what's more it's bloody good entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
Home grown Asian suicide bombers are not an obvious choice for Comedy.
But Director Chris Morris makes a surprisingly good job of it in a work
which is skilfully written and performed. The best humour has a ring of
truth about it. And so it is true here. The plot moves from satire, to
slapstick to straight forwards storytelling, and back, at quite a pace
leaving the audience to make its own mind up about whether certain bits
are intended to be funny, or just turn out that way. That ambiguity is
probably the film's strongest suit.

A strong cast of Jihadists struggle to get a team together, struggle to
get to a Training Camp in Pakistan from which they are sent home in
disgrace, indeed they struggle to complete any task successfully. Yet
they are not portrayed as buffoons. Never before has Muslim culture
been lampooned like this, yet Morris shows it in such a way that they
are Everyman jokes and should not cause offence to anyone.

The fact that this is low budget works to its advantage. The script and
acting win and the documentary style filming gives it an authenticity
which is vital for the humour to prosper. Riz Ahmed stars as Chief
Jihadist Omar, but Nigel Lindsay steals the show as a Caucasian Muslim
convert. Preeya Kalidas has a frustrating, underwritten role as Omar's
wife. A nurse, and a mother we never really get her insight into the
prospect of her husband, and father of her son, embracing martyrdom,
even though she pokes fun at an over zealous cleric when he visits
their home.

At 100 minutes, the film ends when it needs to, in dramatic and
compelling style and does not out stay its welcome. For some this will
not be funny enough, for others it will simply be in poor taste. But we
should be proud that this sort of comedy simply could not be made in
America, and is the first cinematic attempt to deal with a relatively
new, and disturbing, social phenomena.
<|_=00=_|>
In the UK, Chris Morris is famous for the very controversial "Brasseye"
series, and he has taken that iconoclastic attitude to the big screen
to help create this wonderful little film.

It's a crude yet intelligent satire on a group of young men who want to
be martyrs for the Islamic Al-Qaeda in the UK. Rather than portray them
as dark shadowy men, they are really just everyday bumblers and naive
men. The frightening aspect is that despite the humour, they are aiming
to mass murder which always is behind the scenes.

The film uses humour to demystify the self-styled jihadists and take
away any sort of menacing notoriety and show them as the frightening
bunglers that they are. The fear is when one group actually manages to
carry out what they set out to do.

This film is worth watching. You will be rolling with laughter, but you
will end the film with many thoughts on the questions raised also. It's
simply another great bit of political satire, and I recommend it
highly.
<|_=00=_|>
With The Day Today and its more acerbic follow-up Brasseye, supreme
satirist Chris Morris made a mockery of the madness of the popular
media by saying what he saw. It was funny because it could have been
true. With Four Lions, Morris's focus is no longer on the manipulator,
but rather the manipulated. Yet by presenting this jihad suicide squad
as a group of bumbling misfits, chugging along the road to apotheosis
in a car fitted with dodgy "Jewish spark plugs", it's still about the
madness  here, the madness of a cracked ideology believed in mostly
because it's made up as it goes along.

This is not really a film about Islam, or even religious
fundamentalism, but identity. Omar (an excellent Riz Ahmed) speaks
fluently about the "Church of McDonald's" and Western imperialism, and
yet he's at the centre of a comfortable, suburban, upper working class
family unit. Hassan (Arsher Ali) is an awkward, gangly virgin with a
bone to pick with his Media Studies teacher. Barry (Nigel Lindsay, who
some might remember playing a terrorist of a different creed in HBO's
Rome) is white.

For all their misadventures, there's a genuine tenderness and loyalty
between these "soldiers". This is a side of Morris we've rarely seen
before  an emotional spine that raises the film far above what could
have resembled a series of sketches or, worse, a reel of better
outtakes. Perhaps this is the film's greatest success: bringing its
director out of the satirical shadows and into the comedy spotlight,
and proving there's a heart to go with that clever head.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the sort of film at first glance you believe shouldn't work.
Just looking at what it's meant to be, a parody/comedy about British
Muslim terrorists. My first thoughts were 'Too Soon?'. But then I
realised this is just a mockery on something that has had a big impact
on us all.

The film is based around a group of Jihadists that are planning to
cause a terror attack on Britain but the group leading this attack is
just full of oddballs which gives for great slapstick comedy and some
memorable quotes that served the film well.

Christopher Morris has done himself good with this film and the final
ten minutes were really an eye-opener to me. I recommend that this film
should be seen by people who won't take this film seriously, it's a
gimmick. That's the only reason the film's story worked, if it wasn't
funny the film raters wouldn't have let this film be shown. So take the
100 minutes or so to sit down and enjoy laughter all the way through.

9/10
