
Young, professional and successful, John and Laura (Regina Hall) Taylor
desperately want to have a baby, but are unable to conceive.

After exhausting all other options, the couple hire Anna, a beautiful
young woman who agrees to become a surrogate mother for the Taylors.

Everything seems fine until Anna starts to develop a dangerous fixation
with John as the pregnancy moves further along. The Taylors now find
themselves playing a deadly game with a psychopath who holds the key to
their future.

I advise you to ignore the low rates and watch this excellent movie.

I guarantee you are gonna enjoy watching this interesting movie from
the beginning till the end.
<|_=00=_|>
John and Laura Taylor (Morris Chestnut and Regina Hall) are a young,
professional couple who desperately want a baby. After exhausting all
other options, they finally hire Anna (Jaz Sinclair), the perfect woman
to be their surrogate - but as she gets further along in her pregnancy,
so too does her psychotic and dangerous fixation on the husband. The
couple becomes caught up in Anna's deadly game and must fight to regain
control of their future before it's too late.

I loved this movie. I think all of the actors did a great job. Morris
Chestnut always brings it in his movies and the attraction he has with
Regina Hall felt so natural. I would like to see more movies like this.
I never would have let that PYT move into my house though. Nah.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is, I believe, a remake of "The Hand That Rocks the Cradle"
from 1992. At least, a similar set of elements comes up in both movies,
this time with a black cast rather than white. One way or another, it
was a good movie, full of suspenseful points, and the acting was good.
I liked it.

John and Laura Taylor cannot conceive a child, despite having made all
efforts, and have resorted to hiring a surrogate mother, who is sweet
(and seriously cute) and generally easy to like and love, a girl named
Anna Walsh. But Anna isn't all she seems to be, living an unstable life
and hiding her own deep and dark secrets as she develops inappropriate
feelings for John, and her obsession with him turns dangerous and
violent. What happens next? Buy a ticket and see the movie. LOL

PH
<|_=00=_|>
While I can be honest and say this is not an A+ movie, I definitely
don't think it is bad either. If you saw the previews, you know exactly
what you were in for. Because of that, I think the movie was pretty
good.

I think I enjoyed the movie so much because of the actors. I adore
Morris Chestnut & Regina Hall, even if their acting was just slightly
better than everyone's else and that's not saying much. The problem,
however, is that this scenario is a little tired at this point. It
reminded me the whole time of Obsessed with Idris Elba, Beyonce & Ali
Larter. Only, when I saw Obsessed, being in my early 20's, it was the
first I had seen of this type of movie, so to this day I love it and
actually want to watch it now after seeing this one. I personally
prefer Obsessed because it's just a bit more fun, I'll take Beyonce as
the sassy, bad-ass housewife over Regina's demure, almost helpless
career woman any day. 

Ugh and that whole husband hiding the other woman's advances from his
wife because he can "handle it" narrative is so stupid I don't see why
it's keeps being used. What would have made a more interesting movie,
he tells Regina the minute it starts happening, the two of them
continue to play along and eventually turn the tables on the surrogate.
That would have made it a great movie.

All in all it was a beautiful movie, the settings and imagery were
nice. Not to mention the actors, especially the surrogate were hot! I'm
a woman and came for Morris but the surrogate was so sexy, even while
pregnant. She was the only thing that kept me interested. Not great
enough to buy but definitely good enough to rent and watch at home.
Unless you've seen this scenario one too many times, then I wouldn't
recommend it. Like I said though, if you've seen the trailer, you
already know what's going to happen. If you watch and expect anything
else, you will be disappointed but that is not the movies' fault.
<|_=00=_|>
Robbie K here, and I'm back with yet another review on the latest
blockbuster to storm the theaters. This review we are going to focus on
another thriller, one that is promoted to be full of drama, suspense,
and scandalous affairs. Yes, I'm talking about When the Bough Breaks!
While certainly looking cliché in the trailers, we never know what the
final product will be. So let's get cracking shall we?

LIKES:  Good Acting  Pace moves quickly while keeping drama 
Delivers what is promised

As we often see in the Drama genre, a majority of our cast falls into
the overacting territory, turning our characters into blubbery,
quivering, overemotional messes that have you rolling your eyes.
Surprisingly, most of our cast manages to avoid this scenario and keeps
their emotions in check and somewhat relatable. Morris Chestnut was my
favorite of the bunch, developing a character that was respectable,
believable, and one worth rooting for. He was suave and sophisticated,
willing to do whatever it took to protect his family without becoming a
rebel without a cause. Regina Hall, an actress who wears many hats, did
a nice job in the supporting role of the hardworking wife. While
certainly not the greatest role, she worked well with her limited
screen time and reacted well to her fellow actors. Of course the other
show stealer is Jaz Sinclair who seems to have the psychotic jealousy
embedded in her DNA. Sinclair seemed to play two characters in this
role. On the one side she plays a seductive, manipulative, and an evil
mastermind capable of crafting schemes. The other side an obsessive,
emotional, and somewhat horny minx whose sole purpose is to make love.
She does both personalities justice and mixes well with her fellow cast
members. 

In regards to the actual story, well the movie delivers exactly what
you expected from the trailers. It is a straight forward story about a
couple learning the harsh lesson of showing caution when hiring
surrogates and how they deal with the nut job carrying their baby. The
drama is intense and the suspense is drawn out, but much of the
audience in my showing relished every minute of it. The pace of the
movie is fast (which I like) and provided an atmosphere of urgency that
increased the suspense, thereby keeping my attention. An added bonus of
this pace, was that it kept the emotional drama in perspective, which
made for an a better plot. 

DISLIKES  Nothing really original  Predictable on so many levels 
The Wife had a limited role  So many idiotic moments  Still
overdramatic at times

Originality is hard to come by in this day and age, but this film
certainly made no attempt to inject uniqueness into the genome. When
the Bough Breaks follows the same formula that so many television
Horror/Dramas employ from the very linear dialogue to the seductive
moves our nut jobs like to perform. The bottom line of all of this..is
that this movie is certainly predictable and took some of the edge
wayat least for me. 

What also was a downer to me was how little the wife played in this
movie, despite what the trailers promised. Rather than helping uncover
the deception at hand, she pretty much only acted as a morale
counterbalance and a means for Anna's character to go nuts. In
addition, despite all the money, connections, technology, and smarts
our heroes hadthey were surprisingly stupid at times. I understand the
reasoning is that she had their baby hostage inside her stomach, but
certainly after the first attempt to break up the family they would
have invested in some cameras or equipment to catch her in the act. The
stupidity also extended into the "exciting" climaxes where both parties
made mistakes that resulted in further injury. Sure we all have our
idiotic moments, but in the span of nine months with a lunatic, surely
they could have learned some lessons. But if logic took precedence,
then that ever addicting drama would be diluted right? Despite the
decent balance of drama, there are still moments where things still
turn to the melodramatic. Most of these moments do involve the crazier
side of Jaz, mostly in the form of temper tantrums, or hypersexual
moments that were cheesy and missing steam. Oh well, what else would
you expect in a drama. 

The VERDICT

Again, you get exactly what the trailers promised in terms of this
movie. It is a drama with lots of stereotypical ploys brought to life
by a talented cast of actors and actresses. Unfortunately, it still
uses the bag of tricks we have come to know and lacks much originality
to warrant this film a big screen visit. It's not that I didn't enjoy
parts of this movie, I just think its place was more justified on
Lifetime amidst their usual scandalous films. Nevertheless, the
recommended audiences are fans of lifetime movies and those looking for
a low key "horror" movie that won't disturb your sleep cycle.
Otherwise, skip this flick for the weekend and catch the other movies
coming in the next few weeks. 

Drama/Horror/Mystery: 7.0 Movie Overall: 5.5
<|_=00=_|>
Immaculately dressed man. Totally aseptic environment. Man: lawyer,
well married, rich, highly regarded by the boss. All according to the
"American Dream". What's wrong with these scenes? No, I will not
answer. I leave it to anyone who reads these lines. Laura Taylor
(Regina Hall) and John Taylor (Morris Chestnut) live this very
well-driven drama at the hands of Jon Cassar. Laura has a serious
health problem: if she tries to get pregnant again, she can put her
life at risk. Solution: Look for a "surrogate". The search is insane.
But ... here comes a humble, quiet, friendly candidate who immediately
conquers Laura's heart. John (as a good lawyer) does not think it a
good idea to hire her, by meeting Anna Walsh (Jaz Sinclair) ...
suspects that everything is "so right" that you can distrust ... And
then the suspicions are confirmed: Anna has a boyfriend Mike (Theo
Rossi - in few but striking appearances) who lives to apply blows on
desperate wives to have a child ... The cinematography is excellent
(David Moxness) capturing the environment as one should do in a good
thriller. Highlight for Daniel Coe (Construction Coordinator) for the
sensational work and for John Frizzell (Music). On a scale of 1 to 10,
my vote is 7 (very good).
<|_=00=_|>
I find films like 'When the Bough Breaks' very frustrating, because
they have no chance of living up to their full potential even before
the opening credits have rolled. The reason is that their hands are so
severely tied behind their back in terms of what they are able to show
and portray. There were times in this movie where I was actually
surprised how far they went in terms of some graphic violence, yet on
other occasions they seemed incredibly limited as to what they could
show. The latter was certainly the more predominant case in the film. I
can't help but think while I watch films like this that life is too
short. Who really wants their films this toned down? Surely no children
are out there watching a film about a topic like this. So are there
adults out there craving PC, bland nonsense? If so, good on them for
catering to those needs. But you'd better expect the rest of us to hate
your films.

The other big problem with the film is just how "Been there, done that"
it all feels. There isn't a single shred of originality in this film.
Not even one moment that could possibly be in the least bit considered
an original idea. The amateur nature with which this film was made was
nothing short of shocking.

There aren't a lot of good aspects to mention, but if I had to point
some out they would be a decent scare near the end that actually worked
quite well, and a final 10 minutes or so that weren't actually half bad
(although that could have just been because I was comparing them to the
90 minutes that had proceeded them). At the end of the day though my
advice would be to not see this film. Everyone who gives their hard
earned money to films like this is simply encouraging more films like
this to be made. And that would be a very bad thing.
<|_=00=_|>
"When does it become a kidnapping?" John (Chestnut) and Laura (Hall)
Taylor are desperate for a baby, but are unable to conceive. After
years of trying they finally have found a willing surrogate and things
are falling into place. Little but little things start to change and
the surrogate becomes obsessed with John and everything is threatened.
This is a hard movie to review. First thing I will say is that the
movie is tense and dramatic. The only downside is that this is the same
type of movie that has been told over and over and over. Movies like
Obsessed, No Good Deed, Perfect Man.all have the same idea and while
they are all good the idea is getting old and to the point of being
able to know exactly what will happen. That, for me, ruins a movie more
than anything. Being able to stay one step ahead in a mystery movie
ruins the enjoyment. Overall, not a bad movie, but needed something to
make it seem original instead of repetitive and generic. I give this a
low B-.
<|_=00=_|>
I knew this movie was gonna be good when I saw the previews, but it was
ten times better than I expected. Enjoyable, well crafted and good
overall. Would def watch another like this and would recommend. Had
more twists than I expected, but as soon as the movie started I was
hooked. I am usually pretty hard to please with movies and like to
criticize every little detail but with this one I really have no
complaints. Should have gotten more stars and a better rating.

I waited a lot longer than I wanted to, to see the movie. I wanted to
see it when it was in theaters but never had the chance. I finally got
a chance to watch this movie months later. Wished I would have seen it
sooner. I put it off so long that I thought I wasn't going to like it
anymore but finally watched it and loved it way more than I ever
thought I was going to.
<|_=00=_|>
*Minor Spoilers Ahead* John Taylor (Morris Chestnut) and Laura Taylor
(Regina Hall) are on top of the world in their respective professions.
John is a powerful lawyer and Laura is a top-shelf chef. They live in
New Orleans in an amazing house but their lives are still incomplete.
They long to start a family but they have miscarried 3 times and are
down to their last usable embryo. They're trying to get a surrogate and
then they come across Anna (Jaz Sinclair). She's 21 and she's a
waitress in New Orleans. She comes across as very genuine and Laura
takes a shine to her immediately. John isn't quite sure and after
meeting her boyfriend Mike (Theo Rossi) he's even less so. Mike is
creepy and is very possessive of Anna. But Laura is sure and encourages
him to change his mind. Little do they know there's more going on in
the shadows. Mike has a plan to extort money from the happy couple and
as things progress he gets more and more aggressive toward Anna to fall
in line with this plan.

There is no pleasant way to say this, the majority of the plot of When
the Bough Breaks has been done before. More than a few times actually,
the most recent example in memory being Obsessed in 2009. This would
have been okay if they had a way to switch things up or bring a fresh
take on it. The surrogacy angle is relatively new but that's basically
where the new stuff ends. They needed far more interesting stuff in the
side-plots than whether John gets the big case at work or Laura gets
the new position. We meet their subordinates for so little time that it
is literally impossible to get attached to those parts of the plot at
all. The scheme that Mike and Anna cook up isn't fresh, I'll admit it's
one of the more interesting parts of the plot but it's also undercut by
how telegraphed it is by Jaz and Theo's performances.

The other problem with When the Bough Breaks is the pace of it. The
first half of this movie is pretty boring. It's meant to set things up
but they slow play it so much that you can't set up any kind of
tension. The story comes across as heavily melodramatic and that isn't
helped by how bad the dialogue is in spots. The plot does pick up in
the second half but that's when it devolves into the more illogical
stuff. They keep the cops out of it for stupid reasons, John doesn't
tell his wife how Anna's behaviour is changing for no good reason. It
has to happen because the plot doesn't work otherwise. The second half
does pick up but it gets progressively more and more outlandish to the
point where in the final rampage by Anna, she stops because her water
breaks. Ridiculous is the word that comes to mind when I think about
the ending of this movie.

The acting wasn't all bad but this is the type of movie that doesn't do
the actors/actresses any favours. You would think this kind of stuff
would be beneath people like Michael K. Williams, Regina Hall and
Morris Chestnut. They're all accomplished actors and this movie makes
them look like amateurs. But they weren't the worst casualties, Theo
Rossi was awful in this movie. I know he isn't a terrible actor, he was
solid in Luke Cage but this movie made him look laughably bad. Jaz
Sinclair is beautiful but she didn't have the chops to carry this movie
like she needed to. She's definitely got potential but she's slightly
robotic at the start and when things go south, she can't quite make it
work.

I've been pretty hard on this movie but I've seen worse. This is
formulaic and that's the long and the short of it. It made money at the
box office and we'll end up getting more movies like it in the future.
I can't recommend this though, there are better thrillers out there
that supply what you actually want from this. There are no thrills to
be had here and that was the sole job it had to deliver on.
