
The reviews for this film seem to be pretty negative generally
speaking. Pivoting around the historical inaccuracies and the addition
of the "Half Breed" character played by Keanu Reeves to this legendary
tail. More on that further in.

In a nut shell. 47 Ronin has a fair amount of mystical magic and demons
peppered throughout a historical tail. A tale of Samurai who's master
is killed and their status is reduced to Ronin. Only for them to rise
up and seek revenge against the evil ruler and his witch who are
responsible.

Let's get to some positive stuff. Visually the 47 Ronin is beautiful.
The costumes design and color choices to separate each of the different
clans is impressive in it's complexity. The villains are not just
dressed in black, but a fair amount of purple and silver is mixed in to
highlight the details in their armor. The sets have an epic feel that
is grounded and doesn't feel to fantastic, but rather believable.

Now on to the "Half Breed", who mainly adds the taste of a forbidden
love story as well as a lifeline to the audience, drowning is a sea of
unfamiliar faces. Many, if not most reviewers who've pan this movie for
the addition of the "half breed" character fail to realize his
importance for the audience. Around the start of the third act, there's
a scene where one of the samurai apologies for his treatment of the
half breed in a way that communicates to the viewer exactly where a
Ronin places in the Japanese cultural/social structure vs where a
Samurai does. The inclusion of this character and his treatment
throughout the movie is an important plot device. Seeing his treatment
by the Samurai as an outcast in the first act, then later his
acceptance once they are labeled as Ronin is vital to the evolution of
the main Japaneses characters of the story. Not to mention it helps to
bridge a gap for an audience unfamiliar with Japanese cultural and
social structure.

Historical inaccuracy are common in Hollywood. I personally view the
ones in 47 Ronin to be no more reprehensible then the ones committed in
superheroes films. Yes, I am comparing changes made to characters from
Batman, X-Men, Spiderman and Iron Man's cannon to this historical tale
of the 47 Ronin. Deal with it, they're just stories after all. We
really have no way to know it there really wasn't a half breed
character, do we? After all, history is told by the winners, and often
inaccurately.

With a 2 hour run time, it did feel a bit slow to start, setting the
stage for the second and third act. Once it gets going tho, it moved
rather nicely. I didn't find myself checking my watch every 10 minutes
wondering when it would end like another holiday release I won't
mention. If the trailer interests you then you could probably do worst
at the box office this holiday season. I enjoyed it, but that's just my
opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
It never bodes well for a film when its release date is delayed - much
less when it's been pushed back a whole year, ostensibly to accommodate
reshoots that would bump up Keanu Reeves' completely imaginary role in
a Western blockbuster take on a classic, awe-inspiring tale right out
of the Japanese history books. That way lies disaster and madness, one
would think - and certainly the bland, monster-heavy trailers for 47
Ronin did the film no favours. Smack down your inner critic, however,
and this epic fantasy flick - for that's what it is - turns out to be
reasonably palatable fare.

The bare bones of the true story are all there: the kindly Lord Asano
(Min Tanaka) is ordered to commit seppuku - ritual suicide by
disembowelment - when he almost mortally offends Lord Kira (Tadanobu
Asano - a nicely ironic name if ever there was one). This renders all
the honourable samurai in Asano's service masterless i.e., ronin. Led
by the noble Oishi (Hiroyuki Sanada), the loyal band of 47 ronin vow to
avenge Asano - even though they have been ordered by their Shogun (top
military commander) not to do so.

What's less accurate, of course, is pretty much all the rest of it.
Reeves plays Kai, a half-British, half-Japanese orphan who's taken in
by Asano but treated like an outcast by everyone in the household -
except, of course, for Asano's loving daughter Mika (Kou Shibasaki).
Kira's nefarious plans have the support of Mizuki (Rinko Kikuchi), a
witch who can apparently take any form she likes: wolf, snake or
dragon. It's all a bit nonsensical, especially when Kai tries to get
swords for the ronin amongst some pretty creepy folk who have gone from
society's outcasts to being part of what looks like a supernatural
cult.

In other words, 47 Ronin is a faintly ridiculous addition to the wealth
of ChÅ«shingura - fictionalised accounts of the 47 ronin tale - that
already exist in Japan. It's the kind of big, dumb blockbuster in which
the good guys literally live to die another day as long as the plot
calls for it. These fearless ronin even survive when the villain is
protected by a witch with crazy mystical powers! She can set an entire
field on fire, create poisonous spiders and turn into a dragon! And the
ronin - at least 47 of them - live anyway! It's crazy! 

That's what makes it all the more surprising when 47 Ronin turns out to
be... well,actually not half-bad. Once you've accepted the sillier
aspects of the film for what they are, it's easy to get swept along by
its very earnest drama and spectacle. Reeves' storyline is a made-up
jumble of nonsense, but is played very straight - this is, in effect,
Sad Keanu: The Movie - and it just about works. Casting Reeves as the
outsider allows him to do what he does best: play the role with
stony-faced reserve, whether he's levelling up by battling demons in
cage matches or pining moodily after Mika. Kai's restrained love story
with Mika is fairly predictable stuff, with the girl fading a little
too much into the background (don't expect any bloodletting from
Shibasaki, Battle Royale fans), but it's salvaged by the rather
non-Hollywood way in which it all ends.

For all that Reeves takes centre stage in the publicity campaign, the
film belongs just as much to Sanada's Oishi. He undertakes a more
arduous emotional journey: one that takes him from grudging to
full-hearted acceptance of Kai's worth as a warrior and comrade. His
relationship with his family is more fully examined than Kai's
unwavering loyalty to the Asano clan. As Oishi plots his course of
action, one that will bring him shame for disobeying the Shogun even as
he avenges his master, he warns his wife and son Chikara (Jin Akanishi)
to disavow him. Their reactions provide some of the most emotionally
resonant moments in the entire film.

All things considered, the title of the film is a bit of a misnomer -
it would more accurately be called 2 Ronin, subtitled Oishi And Kai's
Excellent Adventure - and it suffers from a lamentable lack of humour
and historical accuracy. But it's not a complete travesty. Tucked away
beneath a layer of mystical beasts and witches lies a story with enough
heart, nobility and soul to survive even the oddest twists and turns.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw the movie and my expectations were met. It wasn't
over-hyped, it wasn't over done as far as marketing is concerned. It
probably could have used a little more, but none the less... It turned
out to be a fun film to watch.

I am pretty familiar with the original tale and legend of the real 47
Ronin and despite historical inaccuracies, which even most stories
today are going to have to create a more dramatic and exciting story
like old tall tales. One comes to mind as Frank Miller's Graphic Novel
300 which ended up being film, it was widely inaccurate compared to the
true events that occurred, but it made the 300 Spartans look even more
awesome and exciting to watch. Most stories have embellishment in them.
Otherwise they would be kind of dull. The real world usually tends to
be just that.

Making this film isn't just about telling a cool story, it is to
immortalize those warrior's that stood fast and strong to fight for
what they believed in and at the same time make them look good doing
it.

The visuals were great, the costume design was great, the filmography
was amazing, capturing the essence of Japan was awesome. Everything
down to the colors, the landscape, trees, buildings and everything. Not
everyone will like this movie, but I for one would recommend it to
anyone that enjoys good movie about Samurai. This movie I thought had a
good story. It wasn't great or Academy Award worthy but it was good. It
wasn't all non stop action. The director did a good job of building up
without making parts drag and become dull.

I honestly thought while watching it, it felt like watching a live
action anime. Not to mention, I have an obsession with Samurai so I was
sold when I saw the first trailer for the film.

Overall, I thought the acting was well done, I think Keanu Reeves did a
good job. His character may not have been part of the true story, but
for the film I thought it introduced something good for the film. First
being an outcast and then being welcomed into the fold later in the
film.

I also liked Hiroyuki Sanada's acting job in this. I think he did an
amazing job as well as the entire supporting cast. They all acted as if
they truly belonged there. No one ever felt out of place.

If you want historical accurate view on the story, I suggest you buy a
book or do some hardcore research into the subject. If you just want to
watch a good entertaining movie full of mysticism, and Samurai action.
Then this is a good way to go. This is just my opinion, take it as you
like. Watch it before you criticize it. That is all I have to say!
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I saw this movie panned by critics on Rotten Tomatoes, and
the only conclusion we came to is they just were not sensitive to the
culture of Japanese mythology. The movie was excellent. We had been
dying to see it since the first announcements, and despite the critics
reviews, we went. Thank goodness we did.

The special effects were good, the story was good. Keanu Reeves did not
come off as Bwana, the white savior of the poor little Japanese people,
as some people might think, as per the usual American movies. He did
stand out, but it was well shared with the Japanese actors. 

The story itself is not American, and I believe that may have thrown
off critics. The ending is unusual, though I will not spoil it for you.

I recommend this movie highly. Should you have the itch as we did, see
it for yourself. You will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
A band of samurai who have lost there master set out to avenge his
treacherous death at the hands of Lord Kira. Enter Kai, a humble "half
breed" with more to him than meets the eye, with catching favor with
the fallen Lord's daughter, Kai must join the 47 Ronin to not only
avenge his honor but save the woman he loves..

Very visually appealing with a nice blend of action and a wonderful nod
to ancient Japanese mythology. I felt though that there could have been
more to the story, simple and clichÃ©d in some areas but overall an
enjoyable film. Keanu does a decent job with his part but the true meat
and potatoes comes from Hiroyuki Sanada, who does a masterful job in
his portrayal as the chief ronin, Ãishi . The true pleasure and joy
within this film is its nod and ode to the ancient Japanese mythology
of the time, which in my opinion is done very well. Some may not
understand the conclusion of this film but in a little learned
knowledge of the culture one would see it for what it was intended
for.. All in all an enjoyable movie and film for any fan of action
films and historical fantasy.
<|_=00=_|>
47 Ronin is a highly fictionalized take on the story of the 47 ronin
who took revenge on a court official who had the 47's leader commit
seppuku. In the film, Keanu Reeves portrays Kai, a half-British
Half-Japanese outcast who is called upon by Oishi, the leader of the
47. The 47 seek revenge on Lord Kira, who also has an evil witch (Rinko
Kikuchi) serving under him, who killed their master.

The movie itself looks absolutely phenomenal, with amazing visual
effects, an emotional and gripping musical score, and strong
performances from Keanu and Hiroyuki Sanada, who portrays Oishi. The
major problem that i saw with the movie was that, it was over way too
fast. They left out important character development for the witch and a
few other characters, which really could have added more emotional
flame to the film. Plus, the movie overall could have easily been
twenty, thirty minutes longer. If it were, i would say it can rank
alongside 13 Assassins and The Last Samurai. The script was
well-written in terms of dialogue (some cheesy lines), but the overall
script was devoid of real depth and thought. Then, Carl Erik Rinsch's
directing was actually pretty good, but had a few too many cut-aways.

47 Ronin is an extremely action-packed samurai/fantasy epic that is
something you don't want to miss on the big-screen (for a cheap price).
Though, if you want to see something award-worthy in terms of writing
and directing, hope for a Director's/Extended cut on disc, for you
won't find it here. But great performances, visual effects and emotion
really help make this movie stand out, even with The Desolation of
Smaug as competition.
<|_=00=_|>
As this is a fantasy retelling of a historic event it takes liberties.
However, for me it was about Honor above all else. I left the theater
not only entertained and with a sense of pride in the story telling. As
a veteran it resonates what I felt when we finished what we had to
accomplish. I did not read the reviews going into today's viewing,
however after I seen it I read the reviews and I think they got it
wrong. This movie is very good with a lot of understatement and
sometimes it gets fanciful but does not takeaway from the story
telling. I believe if you go a see it you will be surprised how good it
is.
<|_=00=_|>
Compared to 70% of the garbage in theaters, this movie is both quite
deep and fun to watch.

It is not a huge budget movie, it doesn't have a perfect script or
story overall, but the acting was great and the overall fantasy feel to
it mixed in with samurai lore was really enjoyable.

I expected this movie to be less than average due to overall scores.
Don't pay attention to them. I'll be purchasing the bluray after seeing
it just now.

It has a slower beginning but it helps give characters depth. The
ending is also quite spectacular because you're involved with the ronin
every step of the way. The last 1/3rd of the film is as usual where the
major battles happen, but act two does not disappoint.

In my books this is a 7.5/10, gave it an 8 as its under rated on here.
Approach it as a really good B movie and you'll love it. If you expect
an Oscar nominations and a $200 mil budget for this, you should
probably not be reviewing these sorts of films.
<|_=00=_|>
Contains mild spoilers:

For those who aren't familiar with the 47 Ronin, this film does it's
best to bring the legend to the rest of the world. Although the film
contains some great visuals, sets, music and costume design, infusing
the story with fantasy elements and some new characters in an attempt
up the action and appeal to a global audience is it's greatest
weakness. 

The story of the 47 ronin is uniquely Japanese. It's the concept of
bushido and how much one, or many, is willing to tarnish their honor in
order to restore justice. Unfortunately things have been simplified a
bit too much and all we are left with is a rather typical action-
driven revenge plot that could have benefited from being slightly more
character-driven. The original story contains a much more intricate
build-up to the final confrontation that not only tests the groups
patience, but their leader's resilience and cunning. Unfortunately,
this film does away with these elements that made the original story so
compelling. As good as the actors are (particularly Hiroyuki Sanada and
Tadanobu Asano), i was definitely wanting more character development
and drama throughout the film. Keanu's character as an outcast is an
interesting addition although he doesn't really get much to do. His arc
was fine but the character deserved more moments to shine. The villains
were fine but could've been deeper. It would have been nice for Rinko
Kikuchi's character to have some back story in order to pit her against
Keanu in a more emotionally driven confrontation. After all, these
characters were created for the film, so why not add an extra layer of
depth. 

I can understand the desire to want to do away with the philosophical
musings of bushido and character drama in order to push the action and
fantasy elements, but the action, although generally exciting and
visually interesting, lacked impact. I feel they missed an opportunity
to really showcase the awesome fighting abilities of the samurai,
instead opting for some CGI creatures and demons and a couple of
averagely-lit night battles. The cut-aways seemed to cheapen the
experience for me, especially during the seppuku scenes. It seemed to
have been framed a bit too closely and the sound was a bit off. No
doubt in order to keep it's pg-13 rating. Nonetheless, there were some
truly moving moments and I found myself ultimately enjoying the film.
Illan Eshkeri's score helped elevate the film's emotional scenes and I
found myself with tears in my eyes at certain points during the film. 

Overall, I found the film to be serviceable. It had a lot of potential
and it was better than expected, although I dared to hope for more.
Some genuinely emotional moments and serviceable action and effects
make this a good but flawed film.
<|_=00=_|>
I knew this movie was bad from reviews, but I went to see it anyways
because I like Reeves and hoped for some good entertainment. Well, the
movie happened to be really... bad.

First of all, movie starts stupidly with a narrative of Reeves raised
as a child from tengo-demons yet a minute later you are told he is
so... gentle. In a few minutes they tell you the daughter of the clan
leader and he are deep in love and this is character development the
movie is based on. I do not mind if they put a white guy as the lead
and tainting the real legend with some love story if executed well. But
because of dull, stupid, clichÃ©d dialog and bad acting the movie is
predictable, mechanic, unconvincing and damn straight stupid. It is an
insult to the original story of the 47 ronin. It is a movie telling to
you "I am a legendary movie because I am telling you so". They added
fantasy fairy tale twist to the original story. This could work if the
ronins were trying to reach the enemy castle fighting waves of enemies
and assassins, falling in traps, having heroic deaths ...but actually
ALL the fights in the movie besides the final battle are short, dull
and irrelevant to story line. In fact the trailer contains all the good
moments. And no, there is no cool tattooed guy to fight with. There is
no real demon monk fight as shown in the trailer. By the way, Buddhist
tengu demons training killers to protect their "beliefs"? I mean,
really? Next - the BIG guy in the movie everyone expected to serve as a
minor boss and have a great eye candy duel with, gone in a second blown
by a bomb. The enemy clan leader - running and fighting like a pussy in
the end. The final boss fight happened with the dragon-witch...and our
hero used his magical power cheat-cheesy move to kill the dragon, the
same magical power he has from the start of the story but never used
before? All those fights from the trailer are so short and unimportant
you just know they put it there as fillers. Probably for this reason
you see no more than ten ronins in most scenes. One of the guys
specifically says they are 47 because you would never believe they are
more than 15 till the final scene. Where nobody is seen to use the
magical swords they were given by the demons in any special way.

200 ml dollars spent on this movie? Hollywood product placement idiocy.
They should rather have made this movie a psychological drama with an
epic real played battle in the end rather than waste cash on computer
animations.
