
What a great film.

Ignore previous reviews. How people can ignore the realities of
psychotic family behavior is beyond me. This film smartly peels the
layers and transparently reveals all about people running astray with
their lives and emotions. It captures how families really are or maybe
should be. Americans are all too good at bottling and hiding their real
feelings and the result is vapid soullessness. Not with this film. It
displays like European honesty ensuring every word drips viscerally
from their tongues until the effects are felt. So reassuring in a
country gone soft and dull. Amazing performances, sharply written and
wildly funny, this film will pull tears, smiles and laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
Looking at the starry cast of This Is Where I Leave You, it's easy to
get excited about the film. But that excitement might easily fade away
when you realise that the director at the helm of this family dramedy
is Shawn Levy, best-known for resolutely mediocre films like Night At
The Museum and The Internship. Surprisingly, however, Levy has crafted
something witty, wise and quite wonderful from Jonathan Tropper's
screenplay (adapted from the latter's own best-selling novel). Its
narrative might struggle a little at points, and some characters fail
to really leap off the screen the way they're clearly meant to. But
This Is Where I Leave You is without a doubt Levy's most engaging,
full-bodied effort yet: a rich, bitter, quirky film about love and
family that teeters along the thin, broken lines dividing life and
death, and comedy and tragedy.

Judd Altman (Bateman) is having the worst year of his life. He's just
discovered that his wife Quinn (Spencer) is having an affair with his
scumbag radio-host boss (Shepard). The last thing he can handle is the
death of a family member. But home he must go in the wake of his
father's demise. Once there, Judd and his siblings - driven Wendy
(Fey), stern Paul (Stoll), and quirky Phillip (Driver) - must abide by
their father's dying wishes, as relayed by their mom Hilary (Fonda):
they are to sit shiva for seven days, a week in which secrets are
revealed, tensions run high, and love sneaks through amidst all the
lies and loss.

It's a situation rich with potential, one that could easily have taken
the path of high melodrama or descended into outright buffoonery. Levy
and Tropper go for something in-between. And so, in a film in which
Judd struggles desperately to mourn his father after the implosion of
his marriage, the sexual escapades of Paul and his baby-hungry wife
Annie (Hahn) are telecast to the entire house via a baby monitor. Wendy
re-connects with Horry (Olyphant), the brain-damaged childhood
sweetheart she left behind for a loveless marriage to Barry (Lazar).
Her brothers sneak off and get high during a service at the synagogue.
The final result is a tangle of black humour and bittersweet tragedy,
woven into a tapestry of joy and misery that's remarkably close to life
itself.

What keeps the film's servings of tragedy and comedy from tipping into
farce are its endearingly real characters. It's easy to see the wealth
of love and resentment that binds the Altman family together. The
siblings argue to the point of bloodshed over who will take over their
dad's sporting goods shop, and they tease one another with the
poker-sharp memories of years of enforced familiarity. But they also
let their guards down around one another: Judd chats out his troubles
with his sister Wendy, perched atop a roof; the siblings complain about
the loss of privacy stemming from their mom's best-selling book about
their childhoods, but still find themselves turning to her in moments
of deepest grief. "You're idiots," Wendy declares at one point to her
brothers, "But you're my idiots" - a sentiment that most would agree
applies particularly well to one's siblings.

Even the supporting characters are mostly well-served by the script,
whether it's widowed next-door neighbour Linda (Monk), mother of Horry
and keeper of a secret that will shock the Altman children when it's
revealed; or Phillip's new fianc√©e Tracy (Britton), a sexy, intelligent
therapist who knows just what a big mistake she's made in falling for
the Altman family screw-up. It's particularly intriguing that Quinn
isn't written off simply as a degenerate whore, but someone whose
mistakes - though inexcusable - are rooted in as much heartbreak and
sadness as she's causing Judd with her infidelity.

Unfortunately, not every character in This Is Where I Leave You rings
quite so truly. While Judd freaks out about Quinn, especially when she
flings a bombshell at him when she turns up at the Altman home, he also
draws closer to Penny (Byrne) - the sweet, kooky girl who's held a
torch for him since high school. In a film filled with so many
quirky-but-realistic characters, each of whom could easily have taken
the lead, Penny is an odd cardboard cutout of a dream girl. In effect,
she bounces around and chirps supposedly insightful but painfully
awkward things like, "I've always seen you, Judd Altman". Poor Byrne
tries her best, and has a sweet chemistry with Bateman, but her
character feels less like a genuine romantic option than the wishful
thinking of a writer who's spent considerably more time fleshing out
his other characters.

In news surprising to no one, Levy's ensemble cast is an absolute joy
to watch in action. Bateman anchors the entire film with one of his
most sensitive performances yet, but everyone around him gets a chance
to shine. Fey, better known as a comedian, mines Wendy's troubled
relationship with Horry for genuine emotional trauma, while Stoll and
Driver round out the Altman quartet with steady, appealing turns as the
eldest and youngest brothers who just can't get along. Fonda is
luminous, carrying off the comedy - and her prosthetic breasts - with
remarkable grace, while creating a picture of a tough, sexually
progressive woman with plenty of depth and love for her children.

Like the fractured, dysfunctional family at its heart, This Is Where I
Leave You isn't perfect. It can be insular at times, and its characters
occasionally speak in perfectly tart soundbites that don't quite ring
true. But Levy's film is also a tender, silly, deep, smart and
ridiculous look at a family in mourning. It finds the hidden joys and
awkward sadnesses in a group of people who sometimes love more than
they like one another. And it serves as a potent reminder that life -
happiness, tragedy, and everything in between - keeps happening, often
when we least want it to.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was actually funny, but not in a slap-sticky juvenile way. It
was a comedy for grown ups in that it dealt with themes that are
applicable to 30 and 40-somethings, such as death of a parent,
fertility, running a business, divorce, etc., but it was not a heavy
film in that it was not a dark comedy. The father who died as the
premise for it was never presented to the audience, which keeps his
passing from being a sad event and allows for the levity at his funeral
to be appreciated. The film generally seems to focus the most of
Bateman's character and his relationships with others, but he carries
that role well. In fact, I thought this performance was one of his
finest in quite some time. Tina Fey was great in it too. I thought she
was just a comedian, but she can act too! (Is there noting she can't
do?) Overall, this film is worth seeing and is a powerful yet
lighthearted journey in the interplay between siblings and the event
that all 30 & 40 somethings will face at some point: the loss of a
parent. If this film doesn't get you thinking about your relationship
with your family members, then nothing will. Not to worry, the family
in this film has enough dysfunction to make you feel better about your
own.
<|_=00=_|>
While many have claimed this title does not offer much that the others
of this particular genre do, I have to disagree. This is a heartwarming
story with genuine dialog between characters. Some of these
conversations and interactions I have experienced firsthand. The
cinematography captures the specific details that both add to the
dialog and allow you to pick up more the second time around. The acting
is very believable albeit a little over emphasized for comedy at times.
The first time I saw this I had wished they rewrote a few of the lines,
but after my second watch they seem fitting for the character and what
they were going through at the time. I really did not like Phillip, and
now I have come to realize he is that juvenile person frequently found
in families. I approached this film without any prior knowledge of it
and was pleasantly surprised. I concede it was not amazing, and given
the cast list may spark high expectations for some, but going into any
movie that way will leave you disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first review on IMDb ever ... I am not even an amateur
critic.

The movie is almost completely dialogue. If you want an action flick or
YA humour look elsewhere.

Everyone did a great job of creating a unique character. And the
characters interacted in a variety of interesting ways. And it was all
realistic though exaggerated as all movies are.

As always I loved Tina Fey, and found Jane Fonda interesting in her odd
but very good acting technique and presentation.

It was, in a word, poignant.

I recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
I would rate this movie an 8 or 9 out of ten because I am part of the
target audience. I read the book, Tropper does a great job of
translating that to the screen with the right blend of people.

Bateman is fantastic. One reviewer said that everyone is filled with
flaws, but I thought the characters seemed extremely real. Imagine a
member of your immediate family passing, and then sitting in a house
with everyone else in the family for 7 days. Flaws are going to be
shown. They will be plenty. This movie is about love. But it is about
love for people that matter, even if you forgot who they are. Go see
it!
<|_=00=_|>
I can't actually understand why so many people rate this movie so low.
It has everything. Just, everything.

It starts light, introducing the characters, it starts building
storyline, gradually the humor and comedy between the characters
becomes more and more fluent.

After the build-up and introduction, there is the storyline. And the
storyline just unfolds so brilliantly. I love how every character has
it's own unique differences, it's like a family not made for each
other, but completely lost without each other.

The ending is just undeniably great, it's one of the better movies I
have seen in a long time. Jason Bateman by the way, was born for this
role. The movie would have been one big flop if that man wasn't in it.
Jason Bateman just makes everything seem a little better.
<|_=00=_|>
Not much to tell about this movie. Really.

The premise, you've seen it a million times. The members of a family (I
let you to judge if it is unconventional or not) are get together in
their hometown because of a funeral.

Movies like this could be comedies, dramas, even thrillers. Most of the
times though, is about reconciliation between the members of the
family, and re-ignition of old flames from their childhood.

This is most definitely a comedy. There are some dilemmas to deal with,
and a few emotional surprises but, although strong, are presented in a
fun way.

And there is a lot of fun in this movies, mainly because of the
chemistry of some experienced TV actors who can play roles like these
in their sleep. Despite some forced clich√©s the movie is easy to watch.
Not boring at all.

Jane Fonda looks surprisingly good for her 77 years (she was also in
The Newsroom recently). Maybe there is message there for a healthy way
of living for the rest of us! Overall: Not Boring. Starts well and
continues like that until the very end. Check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
This genre of film - a group of people who have significant history and
are brought together by an event that impacts them all- rely on great
script,creative casting and directing that creates chemistry and
meaningful interaction.

"This is how I leave you" has none of these elements. The seemingly
talented cast seem to go through the motions, speaking contrived lines
and relying on set piece comedic elements that are not funny to begin
with, a rabbi called "boner" and Jane Fonda's fake breasts are as good
as they get. The script hardly rises above the level of a one -season
sitcom. Characters and their stories are undeveloped. there s no sense
of real relationship between these family members and certainly no
spark or wit. This film fails miserably. 

Save your money and watch "The Big Chill" to see how it should be done.
<|_=00=_|>
It's an amazing movie filled with love and incredible moments of
life.Its about love for your family,a crazy family or a dysfunctional
one,one might say but though they've drifted apart a bit they still
love each other.You will laugh,cry,feel annoyed at times but most
importantly love this movie.You will be laughing at the hilarious
scenes and feeling incredibly emotional at times. At first I thought it
would just be another movie to follow in the lines of others but it
was't. It's fresh,something new and heartwarming. If you're looking for
something with a mix of drama,comedy and love,then this is your stop.
You won't be disappointed. It's something that I'd want to watch more
than once and actually feel like it was a great waste of my time. It's
worth it!
