
I'm 36 years old and in 1981 the first horror movie I saw was John
Carpenters "Halloween". I was 6 year old and subsequently I became an
úber fan of the Director. I've worshiped the great ones (Assault on
precinct 13, Halloween, The Fog, Escape from New York, The Thing,
Prince of Darkness) enjoyed the good (Christine, Star Man, Big Trouble
in little China, They Live, In the mouth of madness, Vampires) and
stomached the bad (Escape from L.A, Village of the damned, Memoirs,
Ghosts of Mars). "The Ward" seems to fall into all of these categories.
Sometimes it's great, more often than not it's good but regrettably
when it's bad it's really bad. Perhaps it was the lack of a traditional
Carpenter score (although the score by Mark Kilian is suitably
haunting, memorable and atmospheric) or maybe it was the somewhat
derivative "jump" scares or could it have been the inconsistent overall
tone because to me it felt like I was watching a movie made by someone
trying to emulate Carpenter rather than a movie by "The Master"
himself. Don't get me wrong, technically it's excellent and it contains
a few moments of genuine tension but there was something missing from
the ingredients that make a great Carpenter movie and I think that
something is called suspense. It's a shame really because with its
eerie location, its linear, albeit uninspired storyline and its quirky
characters this had the potential to bring the Director back to the top
where he truthfully belongs but throughout I couldn't help feel that
Carpenter's become jaded within the genre. His techniques that were
groundbreaking during his prime have been exploited by every other
Horror Director of the last 20 years. So instead of evolving above this
and carving a revolutionary way forward as he once did so gracefully,
Carpenters now imitating his old self and his techniques just don't
seem to cut it anymore. To be fair it's an enjoyable and fast moving 88
minutes but from an old Pro like John Carpenter I was expecting
something a lot more terrifying. When Carpenter reviewed his initial
cut of "The Fog" back in 79 he found it plodding and just not scary
enough so he went back and re-shot scenes then re-cut it into the
classic it is today. I think if Carpenter had taken the same approach
with this movie it could've been up there with the best of the best but
something tells me that he's become indifferent, lost his passion and
dare I say "only in it for the money". Over time I may grow to love
this like I grew to love "Prince of Darkness" but as of right now it's
left me feeling somewhat dis-satisfied.
<|_=00=_|>
Nicely shot, if slightly claustrophobic, thriller set in the 60's, that
was better than I expected. 

After a young woman is found setting fire to an abandoned house she is
taken to the local asylum. There she meets 5 other young women, all
patients because of various mental 'illnesses'. 

What follows is a ghost story which, at times, had me quite spooked.It
seems that the girls have upset someone who is unwilling to forgive
them. Various escape attempts, therapy sessions and red herrings
follow. OK, it's no classic, but it had a genuinely interesting story
that kept me hooked until the end. 

Well worth a watch
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie because I came across the reviews of some raving
fan-boys calling this one a return to form for Carpenter. Frankly, that
would not have been enough, but then it had Amber Heard and Lindsay
Fonseca in it. So I went.

It started slow and steady and I thought that was a good thing because
then the tension would gradually mount towards the end and that the
filmmaker is taking his time to get to an awesome climax. But the pace
never picked up. In fact, when the big reveal happened, I groaned along
with many others present with me. **SPOILER** Multiple-personality
disorder? That's it? Seriously? **SPOILER** There are a lot of things
going against the movie. One, the acting is bland at best. Second, all
the patients are too cute and too SANE to be in a special ward. It was
like watching Sucker Punch with 60s clothing and no action. The premise
of the movie was also too similar to Sucker Punch except, compared to
this, SP did it better and had a lot of skin and action to boot, IMHO.
Third, there was no sense of urgency or suspense. All characters had
resigned themselves to their fate, so what is the point in fighting.
**SPOILER** All except Heard's character, who is at a loss as to why
she is being targeted by the ghost. We the audience are left wondering
the same even after the movie ends. Why did Alice create the new
personality in the first place? **SPOILER** Fourth, for movies with
such kind of a reveal, the events leading up to it should feel
realistic. Here it did not feel that way at all.

To sum up, the movie is Shutter Island, Identity (which used the
multiple-personality disorder more effectively than this one) and
Sucker Punch, all mixed together and then diluted to nothing but jump
shots of Alice's ghost.

Hardly scary and hardly original.
<|_=00=_|>
Yet another summing up project from Master of Horror John Carpenter.
This time he's revisiting the hospital killing ground of Halloween 2,
without the much missed Donald Pleasence to anchor the story.
Confidently directed by Carpenter, after nearly a decade away from
feature films, and well-acted by its young cast, the film is
nevertheless most enjoyable for its small pleasures, especially the use
of 1966 as a period setting. The cruder approach to psychology during
this era infects the film at every level, from the memorable credits
sequence, to the primitive yet threatening art direction of the mental
ward where most of the action takes place. Keeping the gore up to his
usual standards, and employing his standard bag of "cheap tricks" to
make the audience jump, Carpenter delivers an efficient slasher film
whose unpretentious approach to its core issues of sanity vs. insanity
prove much more satisfying than the dead end resolution of the recently
similar mental hospital thriller, SHUTTER ISLAND.
<|_=00=_|>
For the people who didn't enjoy this I can understand this somewhat, it
does have some weak aspects but overall I enjoyed the film. It has a
kind of classic, low budget sense about it. I liked the premise of this
film, an amnesiac in a psychiatric institution is being terrorized by a
ghost that is stalking and killing the other patients, it is definitely
watchable from the start to end. But on a whole this film is well
directed by Carpenter. Someone else mentioned the soundtrack which
plays in the opening credits, it has a haunting child-like voice. it
did have another song also Run Baby Run - The Newbeats. I have seen all
of Carpenters films and this was pretty good, it has a more dignified
sense about it than some of his others.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh dear, I rented this film with high hopes of a return to form from
John Carpenter - the director who brought us Halloween (the 1978
version not the turgid Rob Zombie re-hash) and The Thing (1980).
Unfortunately, whilst being nowhere near as excruciating as 2001's
Ghosts of Mars and the frankly ridiculous bilge that was Escape From
LA, his latest offering 'The Ward' still falls considerably short of
the benchmark of his earlier films. The film borrows heavily from other
genre thrillers such as Shutter Island and Identity whilst failing to
capture the creepy, dread-laden atmosphere that made these films a
relative success at the box office. At times 'The Ward' is reminiscent
of an unusually long live-action episode of Scooby Doo (albeit one with
a little more blood, no dog and less snacks.....) The acting and script
leave a lot to be desired and there is an over-reliance on cheap 'jump'
scares in place of genuine frights. For some reason the film appears to
have been released in the UK way before it's debut in American theatres
which makes me wonder if the producer is struggling to find a
distributor on it's home turf.

Better luck next time Mr Carpenter.
<|_=00=_|>
As a big fan of horror and also of John Carpenter, I was very much
looking forward to 'The Ward'. The first half of the film is a typical
set up for a creepy 'ghost in the hospital' film, but is made less
enjoyable by all the mental hospital clichés. There's the stubborn old
nurse (always with her pills and syringe), the electric shock treatment
and multiple lines like "I'm not crazy" (which, of course, nobody
believes). It's nothing we haven't seen before. Also, the trouble with
having a slow first half is that the second half seems to address the
failure to create any real tension or mystery and therefore turns to
more action-filled slasher territory. This is when the film became more
enjoyable. It feels like Carpenter has returned to the big screen with
some fun traditional horror, as characters sneak through air vents, get
murdered one by one in brutal (yet still too mild for real gore hounds)
and creative ways and the story of the ghost is finally revealed. On
top of that, the ghost is incredibly creepy and remains frightening
throughout the whole film. Some scenes are very tense, the film is
filled with 'jump!' moments and many shots of that darkened corridor
(with rain, thunder and lightning outside too, obviously). The acting
is okay, the score is fairly creepy (though it's no 'Halloween') and
the script's only big let down is it's desperate twist ending, which is
more silly than it is clever. However, it all adds up to make a neat
little horror flick that isn't perfect -nor the scariest or most
imaginative film ever- but is a nice change from the ton of remakes
that are spilling into our cinemas at the moment. Overall, an average
horror film, but enjoyable none the less. Don't take it too seriously,
don't expect to be petrified or vomit at the gore, but expect an
entertaining bit of easy old-school horror from a master of the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
Probably like many who grew up with Halloween, The Fog, The Thing,
Starman etc there has been a real sad sense of "What happened to John
Carpenter?" considering the horrors (bad pun) of later films.

I'm glad to say while this isn't perfect, perhaps the 1st act is too
long, this was really enjoyable and was much more reminiscent of early
days. It's nice to leave the cinema with the feeling you've not been
ripped off and genuinely entertained in that wonderful B-movie way.
Without risking spoilers, while it may seem to some clichéd, and yes
the ending is fairly predictable, in some ways I'm not so sure; there's
a cleverness present that meant the twist was far more satisfying than
the excruciatingly predictable Shutter Island. It also meant the very
last shot was not as "silly" as some feel. 

Considering the generally poor quality of many horror films these days,
there's an opportunity for Carpenter to really make a resurgence, which
for those of us remembering his golden period can hardly be a bad
thing.
<|_=00=_|>
Returning to the director's chair after a ten year absence, you might
think that during all that time, director John Carpenter would have
gone through a lot of proposed projects and picked the best one of all
for a comeback. I have absolutely no idea why Carpenter picked "The
Ward" for his comeback. It isn't a terrible movie - for a somewhat low
budget movie, it looks fairly professional, and it isn't boring at any
moment. But throughout the movie, I kept telling myself, "You've seen
this all before." This includes the "surprise" twist towards the end
the movie - most likely you'll have some idea of what will be revealed
before it actually happens. And when you think about the twist after
the movie has ended, you will realize that some other parts of the
movie don't make much sense with the knowledge of this twist. The
confusing twist, along with the unsurprising makeup of the rest of the
movie probably explain why this movie didn't get a theatrical release
in North America.
<|_=00=_|>
If one didn't see veteran filmmaker John Carpenter's name on this
production, they might not believe he actually was responsible. As was
said in another review, this is not the return to form we fans of
Carpenter were hoping for, after his almost decade long self imposed
break. It's not badly made or anything, just routinely written and
acted; it will have experienced horror fans shaking their heads with
disappointment. It just doesn't have anything to really distinguish it
from other low budget genre films taking up space on shelves. The story
takes place at one of those insane asylums that seemingly only cater to
smoking hot young babes (not that this reviewer is complaining on that
score). The new arrival is Kristen (Amber Heard), who'd set a farmhouse
on fire. She insists she's not insane, natch, and soon she and her
fellow inmates have their lives threatened by a mysterious long haired
entity that seemingly wandered in from a Japanese horror film. All of
this leads to a climactic revelation we've seen done before, all done
in the classic style of having one character explain everything just in
case we didn't get the point on our own. Carpenter does infuse the film
with atmosphere, a respectable amount of it, to give it some
effectiveness, but relies on jump scares just a little too often. The
movie works best when it's simply enveloping the viewer in its
ambiance. That said, Heard *is* a compulsively watchable lead, a
stunner *and* a capable actress who can get us on her side. Her fellow
hotties fare reasonably well: Danielle Panabaker (of the horror remakes
"Friday the 13th" and "The Crazies"), Mamie Gummer (the spitting image
of her mom Meryl Streep), Mika Boorem, Lyndsy Fonseca, and Laura-Leigh.
Jared Harris is likable enough as the psychiatrist who seems to have
her best interests in mind, although the other staff includes
stereotypical, grim faced meanies including an obvious Nurse Ratched
clone (Susanna Burney). There's some graphic violence, but not that
much blood, and the vengeance-crazed spirit is not among Gregory
Nicotero's and Howard Berger's best work. Then again, this whole thing
strikes one as exactly the kind of thing people do to collect a
paycheck. It's professionally done, but is also extremely forgettable
in the end. The last second shock ending was hardly necessary. Six out
of 10.
