
Winter's Bone is about a 17 year old girl name Rolly Dee set out to
find her father who put their house for his bailbond and then vanishes.
If she doesn't find him, her family will be turned out to the Ozarks.
Challenging her outlaw kin's code of silence and risking her life, Ree
hacks through the lies, evasions and threats offered up by her
relatives and begins to piece together the truth.

Let me, just begin by saying this movie is perfectly acted. Jennifer
Lawrence gives an Oscar Worthy performance as Rolly Dee. I was
surprised how excellent she was, because I was sceptical of her in the
"The Bill Engvall" show. But she turned me to a believer and boy, she
can REALLY act. Her performance actually surpasses some of Meryl
Streep's performances. Hopefully the Academy will recognize her and
give an Oscar nomination or maybe even a win! The film is well directed
by Debra Granik and is easily her best work yet. She definitely has
potential to become the "new" Kathryn Bigelow. Anyways the film is
really bleak and powerful, but it still has a tone of hopeful in it.
Very interesting and mesmerizing movie to watch. It is a bit slow at
times, but trust me it never gets boring or dull.

10/10 Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
"But I can't forever carry them kids and my mom, not without that
house."

Winter's Bone is a stark, almost documentary-like movie about a poor
teenage girl named Ree in the Ozarks who supports her near-catatonic
mother and two younger siblings during her meth-cooking father's many
brushes with the law. When he disappears before a court date and the
family's home is at risk if he doesn't show up, Ree (Jennifer Lawrence)
investigates amongst the locals to find out where he might be. But,
some people don't like the questions she's asking, and her life may be
at risk, along with her family home. 

The plain, unobtrusive way that the camera observes events really
helped draw me into the movie, to the point where I honestly forgot
that I was watching a movie, at all. This effect was heightened by some
excellent performances; especially from Jennifer Lawrence and John
Hawkes (Teardrop). Lawrence had a star-making (and award worthy)
performance, in my opinion. Ree is probably my favorite movie character
of the year (well, perhaps next to Hit Girl), and Lawrence plays her
with a realism and stubborn toughness that makes you believe that this
seventeen year-old girl wouldn't wilt under the kind of circumstances
that would overwhelm most adults. Her love for her family seems
completely genuine, and there's never a word or a glance where she
seems like she's "acting".  It's all very natural, and I was beyond
impressed.

The plot was quite tense and engrossing, as Ree pursues the mystery of
where her father is with a dogged intensity, despite the fact that it
leads her into some very dangerous (and violent) situations. The
sparse, beautiful winter settings are a perfect backdrop for the story.
It's been a while since I've seen a movie that does as good a job as
this one in communicating a sense of place.

Winter's Bone may not be for everyone, though. There are no shoot-outs
or florid romantic scenes. The moments of happiness are small,
fleeting, and poignant; like a gift of generosity from a neighbor who
knows you're in need, or the quiet assurances of an older sister to her
younger siblings. In Winter's Bone, our world is never in danger...but
one family's certainly is. I liked the movie the first time around,
enjoyed it even more the second, and heartily recommend it if you're
interested.
<|_=00=_|>
It is quite astonishing what people are capable of when their survival
or way of life is threatened. In those moments, they are somehow able
to employ a level of courage, perseverance, and high intention that
they never knew they had. Such is the case for young Ree Dolly
(Jennifer Lawrence) in Debra Granik's The Winter's Bone, winner of the
Jury Prize for dramatic competition as well as the Waldo Salt Screen
writing Award at the Sundance Film Festival. Newcomer Lawrence, a
Kentucky native, is completely convincing as the 17-year-old Ree who
has endured much in her brief lifetime and has plenty of obstacles yet
to overcome. Living in poverty in a small house in the rural Missouri
Ozarks, near the Arkansas border, she has to cook, chop wood and do
whatever is necessary to care for her twelve-year old brother Sonny
(Isaiah Stone) and her six-year old sister Ashlee (Ashlee Thompson) as
well as look after her mother who is catatonic.

Based on the novel by Daniel Woodrell and co-written by Granik and Anne
Rosellini, The Winter's Bone depicts how young Ree's life is changed
when the local sheriff informs her that her dad, Jessup, on the run
after being arrested for "cooking" methamphetamines, has put the
family's house up as bond and that, unless he is found and convinced to
turn himself in, Ree's family will lose their house. Insisting to the
sheriff that she will find him, the young girl begins a search among
friends, family members, distant relatives, and the community of
small-time crooks, dope dealers, and kingpins that dominate the
male-dominated rural society. No one wants to talk and Ree is met with
silence, hostility, and even violence. One neighbor tells her that her
questioning is, "a real good way to end up et by hogs." When someone
asks her, "Ain't you got no men folk to do this?" the answer is an
emphatic "no." (at times, the film seems to be challenging Juno for the
most quirky one-liners).

Ree's main antagonists are her father's terrifying older brother
Teardrop, played by John Hawkes, and Merab (Dale Dickey), the wife of
Thump Milton, one of the local bosses. The performance by Dickey
conveys an overbearing sense of intimidation that is both real and
frightening. As Ree navigates through this hostile environment, we grow
to admire her determination and her willingness to confront danger in
order to protect her siblings. Winter's Bone is a film about poverty
and desperation but it never exploits its characters or engages in
manipulation or sentimentality. Though it can be hard to watch at
times, it is not as some critics have said "poverty porn." There are
lighter moments as well that include authentic Ozark folk music sung by
Marideth Sisco and scenes of Ree teaching her brother and sister to
spell, count, and perhaps more important for survival, how to shoot a
rifle. She also tells her younger brother about the culture in which
they live saying "Never ask for what ought to be offered." 

Though I was riveted by the unfolding story, perhaps because of the
film's high degree of stylization, I stopped short of full emotional
involvement and was often conscious of the fact that I was watching a
movie. Yet The Winter's Bone is a rich, satisfying film that more than
deserves the accolades it has been receiving. Though it is stylized, it
has an authenticity derived from using local residents as actors and
from the director having immersed herself in the culture for two years
before shooting the film. Jennifer Lawrence conveys a stoic and
hard-edged individual, yet one with integrity who has somehow avoided
getting sucked into the soul destructive way of life that seems to be
endemic to the area. In Ree, Granik has created one of the strongest
female characters in cinema in memory, one who, by her sheer will,
suggests what could be accomplished if all of us could live each day as
if our life depended on it.
<|_=00=_|>
This shockingly diverse film offers numerous delights to the viewer.
Beginning with simple title credits, and ending in a beautiful display
of foliage. Winter's Bone will grab your attention and never let go.

Based on a novel of the same name, it's the story of a seventeen year
old girl who is searching for her missing father. Sound like something
you've seen before? Well it's not! The basic premise surrounds itself
with remarkably new idea's and situation's. A feeling of noir envelopes
the screen and each character and action leads you on a most enjoyable
journey. The Actor's and more importantly Actress, are dug so deep into
their characters that there isn't a single fake second.

Debra Granik does an amazing job in the director/screenwriter role. Her
vision entangles the story together and propels it forward to the
unforgettable climax. The world that is shown through this film is one
i was unfamiliar with, but after seeing it all i can think about is the
life those characters lead. And how different it is from my own.

A film that deserved the grand jury award at Sundance and one which I
plan to see again. Winter's Bone is a film for everyone, be you young,
old, or in the middle. Just walk into the cinema with an empty plate
and you will leave filled.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an excellent film, the casting was perfect and, filmed on
location in the Ozarks, it's depiction of poor rural mountain life in
the South was thoroughly authentic. In another generation, it was
moonshine that put these people on the wrong side of the law. Today,
it's methamphetamine and OxyContin. As the plot moves forward through
this drug subculture, the pride, family loyalty, code of honor and
toughness of the people are revealed. Three performances stand out.
Jennifer Lawrence never hits a false note as Ree Dolly, the 17 year-old
protagonist who takes care of her little brother and sister and her
mentally disabled mother. She learns that her father, who cooks
methamphetamine, had been arrested and put up their house and land for
bail bond. If he doesn't show up for court, they will lose their house,
and she must find him. John Hawkes, cast as her uncle, Teardrop,
quietly develops his character from someone who is initially menacing
and untrustworthy into a man you can faintly admire. And Dale Dickey,
as Merab, manages to convey a woman who is tough, mean, capable of
violence, yet also honest and reluctantly sympathetic to Ree.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. A double award winner at the
Sundance Film Festival, this film is based on Daniel Woodrell's novel
and is directed by Debra Granik. It's opening sequence slaps the viewer
with the bleak unforgivingness of life in the backwoods of the Ozarks.
This is land of people that time has passed by.

The basic premise of the story is that 17 year old Ree Dolly (played by
Jennifer Lawrence) is responsible for raising her brother and sister
and caring for her mentally-blank mother while maintaining a mostly
positive outlook on the present and future. Reality strikes again when
the local sheriff arrives to inform her that her missing, meth-lab
running father has an upcoming court date. He used their land and house
as collateral for his latest bond. If he fails to show, they will lose
their home. Instead of breaking down, Ree pledges to find him and
starts out on a hazardous journey, unlike we have seen on screen.

This community of mountain people are distrusting of outsiders, but
stunningly, are just as paranoid around insiders and even family
members. Their way of life seems to depend on pure independence, even
though they all seemed intertwined in the same illegal activities and
daily quest for survival. Some kind of odd code exists - ask nothing,
give nothing and get rid of any obstacles.

The driving forces of the story are Ree and her constant hope and
courage, and her bond to her dad's only brother, Teardrop played
chillingly by John Hawkes. Teardrop tries to toughen up Ree and get her
to accept her plight, while Ree constantly shows his there is reason to
plow forward.

The film is very well written and the local filming brings a harsh
reality that was crucial to the film's success. Additionally, I was
stunned at the fierceness displayed by Jennifer Lawrence as Ree. Her
performance reminded me of my first exposure to the talents of Meryl
Streep (The Deer Hunter) and Evan Rachel Wood (Thirteen). Talk about
powerful and exciting ... what she did with this role vaults her
immediately into a very small group of actresses who can carry a movie
with their presence. I am anxiously awaiting her next appearance - a
Jody Foster project.

I also want to mention the music in the film. The vocalist, Marideth
Sisco, is also the vocalist in the living room band who makes an
appearance in one scene. Her voice truly captures the balance of hope
and acceptance of plight. This is not a movie for everyone, but it is
fascinating and hardcore.
<|_=00=_|>
Just back from seeing this at the Edinburgh Film Festival, and at the
Q&A afterwards, the director, Debra Granik (refreshingly eloquent and
well beyond the usual wanting to thank the world and his wife for being
here at EIFF) described her film's subject matter as 'hard scrabble'.
Although she wasn't referring to a Russian Roulette version of the
popular literacy board game (now there's an idea for a film...), it was
an evocative description of the tough slice of backwater American life
served up here. The basic storyline  a teenagers plight to save her
dependent family from imminent homelessness because of the actions of
an errant and now-absent father  felt both authentic and compelling,
as did the way the local community closed in around her, meting out
both violence and support in equal measure.

Using grey and oppressive colour tones, the entire film is shot in a
bleak wooded landscape, where the grizzle-bearded men all look like
they've just left the set of 'Southern Comfort', and the
straggle-haired, world-weary lined faces of the women add to the
unspoken sense of the harsh reality of life here. I doubt they see many
tourists in this neck of the woods, and at the same time, the film
steers well clear of the 'and if they did, they'd probably eat them'
stereotype. I liked the sparse and effective use of
bluegrass-folky-type music, which cut through, and gave some relief to,
an otherwise fairly unremitting sense of hopelessness.

Although the subject matter is an uncompromising reality-check to much
of the superficial Hollywood drivel that fills our multiplexes, this is
not a hard watch. At its' heart, it's a good story, well-told, with
excellent central performances (particularly John Hawkes and Jennifer
Lawrence) and an open-hearted sense of the local community here, in
spite of their bread-line existence. 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching this film the first time you will see one of the most
accessible, compelling, and almost entirely straight narrative films
this year. As a film snob, I tend to like them more visually
challenging and time bending. Nonetheless, I was entirely blown away in
my first viewing and simply could not get this movie out of my mind for
the rest of the film festival I was attending.

In quiet repose, the vapor trails coalesce around two things when you
try to explain Winter's Bone to others. From the view of genre it goes
everywhere: mystery, noir in gray tones, gangster, thriller, almost
horror and a brilliant, stark family drama. Then there are the themes
that rage quietly behind the scenes: hopelessness in poverty, good
transcending almost demonic evil, an unbridled feminist treatise,
nobility free poverty, drug culture ripping social fabric asunder, and
family is your trump card for everything.

This really grasps you like a whirling dervish in a cauldron, so
powerful it takes your thoughts so many places so quickly.

The source of all this is a startling story and screen rendering by one
who may become a great young female director. The performances, likely
coaxed by this great director, stun you silent.

Plus it contains possibly the greatest role model for the young ever
put on film, performed in true star making brilliance if seen beyond
the art houses where characters like me reside.

In the end, after five viewings, it stands as my favorite film seen
since American Beauty, therefore placing it in my favorite ten
all-time. Please see this before it shocks you when its name appears on
year end awards lists.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the sad story of inbred, poverty-stricken, Missouri
Ozark hillbillies trying to scratch out a living on poor soil and even
worse personal resources, so it was no wonder meth production was
embraced as a life-changing profit center that had the illegal
potential to change their lives for the better. Their poor lives before
meth had a certain dignity in the hard struggle for survival in an
uncaring world that had passed them by or never allowed them to catch
up, either or both, but cheap and dangerous drug production leading to
fast but risky money took these unfortunates down a road that surely
few would have chosen if they had a chance beforehand to see any of the
personal and social harm it created in a society already at great risk
of decent survival. What great harm it did was shown and acted
brilliantly, as it pushed these already at-risk people lower down the
chain of life than before and surely even lower than the wild animals
they had to kill for food.

A young girl of 17, seeming older than her years, beaten up and beaten
down, wary of those around her but needing their help, and with 2 young
siblings and a helpless mother to care for, she learned that her
drug-making, drugged-out father disappeared and missed a court date for
a drug arrest, and the most important task of her life then became
finding her father before they lost their meager home to bondsmen, as
that sorry home place was all they had in the world but it was home and
she intended with all her heart and soul to do whatever it took to keep
it and her family together. The acting throughout was appropriately
serious to deadly, with hardly even a smile to be seen, and left us
thankful as seldom before for whatever our own lives give us compared
to those in the story.

Such a grim and foreboding task the daughter had, with imminent harm
threatening around every corner she turned and behind every door on
which she knocked, even those of relatives. Determination can get you
far, but only so far unless you get a few breaks, and that long quest
for a decent break was what kept viewer's eyes glued to the screen
until it all played out in the end as could be expected in that dire
situation. 

Bleak, stark, harsh, mean, cruel...all those tough adjectives were
present in full force throughout her search, but present also was her
eternal fire of human spirit and family duty that would never quit.
When actual survival is at stake, this story showed well that some of
us truly can find the right stuff to survive when no better choices are
possible.
<|_=00=_|>
A girl is searching for her presumably dead father in order to prevent
her house from being seized by a bondsman. The father turned out to be
murdered in a community effort to prevent him from talking to the
police about the neighborhood's little drug operation. The
claustrophobic atmosphere in the film is accompanied by dry local
dialog which won't exactly make you spin in your seat. By the time the
film is over, you have gained nothing in terms of entertainment or a
better understanding of what the hell it is that makes these people
tick. The film just kind of drags on for 100 minutes and then ends.
It's not a poorly made film by any means, it just begs the question why
anyone would bother to create it in the first place.
