
I know most people who love PRIDE AND PREJUDICE by Jane Austen are
furious about this movie even existing, let alone being successful. But
I actually liked it a lot!

I know the original classic fairly well (I'm a former high school
English teacher and a current college librarian) and I was astonished
almost from the very beginning at how much of the dialogue comes direct
from Jane Austen's novel. All of the issues that really matter and the
conflicts that draw the reader into the novel are still very much alive
in the movie. It's just that they are juxtaposed against the horror of
the walking dead. 

I can't say enough about the good looking young (and not so young) cast
members. I was absolutely blown away by how seriously Lily James and
Sam Riley took the relationship between Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy. Both
of them are so skilled at projecting courage and integrity combined
with deep feelings and hidden pain. They never seem silly even when
they're doing very silly things, i.e. cutting each others' clothes to
bits in a sword fight. Bella Heathcote and Douglas Booth as Jane
Bennett and Mr. Bingley are almost as good, and I have to say, visually
they are absolutely perfect as the characters from Jane Austen's novel.
And the supporting players are absolutely outstanding! You just cannot
go wrong with Charles Dance as Mr. Bennett. His performance is exactly
what you would hope for in a serious adaptation. Though that's true of
every actor in the cast, really. Lena Headey is an exquisite Lady
Catherine DeBurgh, though her character is ultimately just a little
more sympathetic towards Elizabeth than she is in the novel. Even Jack
Huston, who has been a hero of mine ever since his epic role as
disfigured World War One veteran Richard Harrow in BOARDWALK EMPIRE, is
an effective villain as Mr. Wickham. Best of all is Matt Smith, who
takes the thankless role of the hateful Mr. Collins and turns it into
an irresistible Peter Sellers style comic explosion. He's that good. 

Let's face it, a Jane Austen zombie movie is not for everyone. But if
you're willing to be open minded and you enjoy great acting, comedy and
romance, this just might be for you. The sword fights are exciting, the
love scenes (including the arguments) are authentically romantic, and
the blood and guts are never really that gross. Oh, and if you do go
and see the movie, make sure to stay through the closing credits,
because the last joke of the film is really the best!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is so fun and so campy. Is it winning any awards?...no. But
the acting is good. It's got a great cast and they do a really good
job. I was very pleasantly surprised with Pride and Prejudice and
Zombies.

It's a romance. It's horror. It's comedy.

Go for the fun of it and don't take it seriously. This is not a classic
Victorian novel and this is not a true tale of zombies like most die
hard zombie fans think of them (ie. The Walking Dead or the more
classic Night of the Living Dead). I am a true zombie lover. I loved
"28 Days Later", "The Walking Dead", "Zombieland", etc. This is not one
of those, so if you don't expect to see that when you go to this movie,
I think you will enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
I really feel like the people that rated this movie poorly either
didn't see the movie and just wanted to give it bad press, or had no
idea what the movie was about. The acting and effects of the movie were
beyond my expectations, and as far as the storyline, it was Pride and
Prejudice. I love the book and movie Pride and Prejudice, I also love
zombie movies so this movie was the perfect fit for me. That being
said, I feel that this movie would appeal to anyone who enjoys the
zombie genre. I had a lot of fun during this movie, I was pleased that
it didn't take itself seriously, yet I enjoyed the depth of the
characters. I equally laughed and jumped at the shocking moments
throughout this movie, and enjoyed every moment. I also must include
that I almost didn't see this movie, because of the bad reviews.
However, I am very glad that I didn't listen, because I feel like since
this is a beloved classic book with zombies people may be upset that
this movie was made in the first place. I am a huge Jane Austen fan, I
find it a refreshing fun take on the storyline.
<|_=00=_|>
My disclaimer is this: I tend to rate a bit high because I rate almost
purely on how much I enjoyed a film; I'm as far from a critic or 'movie
snob' as one could possibly be. My rating reflects pure enjoyment and
if it's worth spending the money to see at the theater. In my opinion,
it is!

The movie is truly Pride and Prejudice...and Zombies; it follows the
basic outline of the P&P novel, even some of the same dialog, but
throws in zombies. Personally, I loved the book and I loved the Keira
Knightly film and I will admit it took me about 10 minutes or so to
adjust to what I was seeing; but I quickly became immersed. 

The action is very well done and if you're a fan of women being in
charge in an action movie then you will really like this!

If you're a fan of Matt Smith then this is a MUST SEE, i've never
watched Doctor Who, I'm not a fan of him (just b/c I haven't seen him
in things) but he stole every scene he was in, he was excellent. 

I purposely try to keep my reviews vague so as not to give anything
away; the bottom line is this: if you're in the mood for a fun night
with a movie with a crazy premise and some good action then I highly
recommend it!

I am quite surprised by the low rating currently (5.4); I imagine it is
people who don't like seeing the novel turned into something with
zombies. At the end of the screening I was attending there was audience
applause and everyone genuinely seemed to enjoy it!

p.s. the current voting breakdown has 18%(!) of 1 votes! So take that
into consideration.

p.s. if you don't like horror, I personally wouldn't classify this as
"horror" but more "action"
<|_=00=_|>
Genreally, I like zombie movies a lot because of their post-
apocalyptic vibe.

Normally though, I find the genre comes in 2 distinct flavours; serious
stuff like "28 Days/Weeks Later" or campy B flavoured offerings like
"The Scouts Guide To The Apocalypse".

This movie however defies the genre. The closest comparisons I could
make would be "Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter" or "Penny Dreadful" but
with more humour. It follows the story of Pride and Prejudice so
closely I kept looking for Keira Knightly to appear.

The production quality however is what surprised me the most; it's
incredibly high with great sets, realistic costumes, lighting and
cinematography. There was a lot of attention to detail.

This is a very unique and interesting mash-up which I quite enjoyed. I
am surprised it's not rated higher on IMDb but I believe it deserves a
watch regardless.
<|_=00=_|>
I fully expected this film to be slightly underwhelming but possibly a
bit of fun and I never read any reviews on here or elsewhere before
watching it. It was very funny, witty and thoroughly absorbing. The
acting was excellent - Matt Smith, as others have said is wonderful -
and the production superb. The peculiarities of the novel are self
evident and, when the zombie influences are absent, you could think you
are watching another excellent version of Pride and Prejudice. I have
now read many reviews on here and am pleased to find that many
reviewers have given the film praise. The low score is disappointing so
I can only assume that many people have just written off the film
either not having watched it or are just trying to be clever and above
it all. Some reviews I've read are really quite pompous in their
approach. If you have an open mind, an imagination and, preferably a
liking for both Austen and zombies you will find this film
irresistible. I have noticed that some reviewers say this is just a
Victorian / zombie romance. It's Georgian, more precisely Regency and,
although a romance, is a story of manners. Great stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. For those high school Literature
teachers struggling to get their students to embrace the classics from
writers like Jane Austen, this movie won't help much. However, chances
are good that those same students will enjoy this blending of 19th
century British class warfare with "The Walking Dead"  likely one of
their favorite shows. The zombie apocalypse has landed in the middle of
Austen's prim and proper story, including the repressed attraction
between Elizabeth Bennett and Mr. Darcy.

Anyone expecting the serious undertones of Ms. Austen's1813 novel will
be disappointed  but the title should have provided a pretty solid
hint. While her characters and general story line act as a structure
here, it's really based on Seth Grahame-Smith's YA hit novel 
delivering zombie battles and often zany humor. Burr Steers (Igby Goes
Down) directs his own adapted screenplay and seems to really be having
a great time  right along with his talented cast. The sets, costumes,
dialogue and fight scenes work together to create an unusual movie
experience that will generate plenty of laughs while not dwelling on
the zombies or violence (it is PG-13). Expect most critics to destroy
this one because it's made simply for fun, not for art.

Of course, any Pride and Prejudice spin-off (even one with zombies)
must pay particular attention to Elizabeth Bennett and Mr. Darcy. It
turns out that Elizabeth and her four sisters are highly trained
warriors raised to survive against the undead. It's even clearer for
Mr. Darcy as he is billed as a zombie hunter and protector of Mr.
Bingley, the rich bachelor hooked on Jane Bennett. Things get muddled
by the devious Mr. Wickham, a focused Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and
especially the flamboyant fop Parson Collins. The interactions between
these characters bounce between loyalty, romantic attraction, emotional
turmoil and hand-to-hand combat  with enough comedic elements that
most viewers will find plenty of opportunities to laugh.

The talented cast is all in. They play it mostly straight (with one
major exception) to achieve the balance between somber and silly. Lily
James ("Downton Abbey") and Sam Riley (On the Road, 2012) are both fun
to watch as Elizabeth and Darcy. They are the film's best fighters 
both with swords and words. Bella Heathcoate (Dark Shadows, 2012) is
"the pretty one" Jane, who is wooed by Douglas Booth (Noah, 2014) as
Mr. Bingley. Lena Headey ("Game of Thrones") makes an impression in her
limited screen time as an eye-patched Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and
Jack Huston ("Boardwalk Empire") is well cast as Wickham. Screen
veterans Charles Dance and Sally Phillips take on the role of parents
to the five Bennett daughters, but it's Matt Smith ("Dr Who"), who
turns the film on its ear with his unconventional twist on the oddball
Parson Collins, who pretty much steals each of his scenes. He had those
in the theatre laughing out loud more than a few times.

Pity is the word that comes to mind for any young man who takes these
Bennett girls to the prom  or more likely to one of the societal
balls. The weapons hidden under their formal gowns offer fair warning
to zombies and handsy suitors alike. It's this element of strong women
(physically and emotionally) that might even allow Ms. Austen to
appreciate what's happened to her characters  were she alive to see
it.

Even though the film offers plenty of fun with laughs and action and
romance, let's hope it doesn't kick off a new zombie-adaptation trend.
Here are a few titles that we hope never see the big screen: Sense and
Sensibilities and Zombies, War and Peace and Zombies, Crime and
Punishment and Zombies, The Old Zombie and the Sea, Wuthering Zombies,
Romeo and Juliet and Zombies, and Alice's Adventure in Zombieland.
<|_=00=_|>
This honestly surprised me. 

It goes without saying I was not expecting much from this movie. I have
seen various Pride and Prejudice movies before today and did not enjoy
any of them out of sheer boredom. Nothing against those movies or their
quality but it just wasn't my kind of movie. I assumed that this would
be no different and that it would just be the same exact story with a
few zombies sprinkled in. 

And to an extent, it was exactly that, but there was much more depth to
the zombie plot than I anticipated. The zombies were a very large part
of the story and even when there was romantic drama there was still a
close focus on the zombie aspect. There is always that underlying
tension that zombies will strike. 

The visuals were not the best but were still very well done. The
make-up and effects for the zombies were much higher quality than I
thought they would be. And the atmosphere kept a good mix of an old
Pride and Prejudice feel while also adding a new element of dark
zombie-apocalypse tension that I loved seeing. 

There were a few parts that I rolled my eyes at, especially when things
got a bit too dramatic between the lead characters Darcy and Elizabeth,
but all in all it was a good movie that I enjoyed. 

Very surprised to say I give this movie an 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Pride and Prejudice and Zombies is an amazing experience. It's
thrilling, it's romantic, it's hilarious, and actioned pack!! I love
love love this movie. The humor is depicted to the audience in a form
that doesn't dumb down the dialogue. It's was brilliant and the cast
was fluid. Extremely worth watching. The setting is perfect for the
world our protagonist live in. The lore is tolerable. I personally
distrust zombie movies however I enjoyed every second. Would recommend
it to anyone looking to loose themselves in this wild piece of work.
Truly a roller-coaster of fun. Please watch with an open mind and leave
that pride and prejudice at home you zombie! #PPZ movie!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a zombie movie fan but I am a huge Matt Smith and Pride &
Prejudice fan so I felt the need to see Pride & Prejudice & Zombies. I
try to retain the image of MS as the Doctor so I haven't watched
anything else he has played in but because the two afore mentioned
worlds collided I HAD to see this movie and I was not disappointed! I
found it easy to look around the obvious plot holes and simply enjoyed
hearing the old familiar lines spoken in such a different
setting/atmosphere with MS's performance being the icing on the cake.
This movie is not award winning but it is very entertaining and I only
had to look away a couple of times.....
