
I'll start by stating that I'm a 62 year old white male. I did not grow
up in the South - but I did live for a year in Louisiana in the early
70's. I lived through every news event that was portrayed in the movie
- that is, I saw and read about them in the actual news when these
things happened. Many posters on the boards say that the movie is
inaccurate. Then they go on to say things like: His name was changed,
he didn't have 2 sons, he didn't look anything like Forest Whitaker,
Nixon was miscast, etc. True, the details of The Butler's family life
have been dramatized. That is called movie making. The movie was
historically accurate in every important way. I don't say that every
single detail was true, nor am I saying the portrayal of these
historical events was 100% exactly as portrayed. But it is far more
accurate (and important) than your average popcorn POS that pervades
the theaters these days. I want to state that I have rarely, if ever,
been as emotionally affected by any movie. It is brilliant,
provocative, artistic, and has a social purpose. Like it or not,
persons of African descent have been victimized, downtrodden,
brutalized, persecuted, tortured, lynched, raped, and murdered - and
only because of their skin color. HOORAY to Lee Daniels for making this
movie! Hooray to Forest for being a sensitive, intelligent, highly
gifted actor. Hooray to Oprah, whose performance is beyond stellar.
Hooray to anyone involved with this movie. Not to say that ALL movies
have to take you to the places that this movie does. I guess there is a
place for Pacific Rim and Wolverine. So if you think that movies have
no business delving into our racist and brutal history, then see one of
those movies. But to say that this movie is irrelevant or inaccurate -
well, as I said I lived through it all. It is not. What it is, is an
exceptional, mature movie for those that want a little more than
monsters (the fictional kind). My wife and I went through a whole
packet of tissues - we were blubbering like fools. BRAVO!!!!! 9 (rather
than 10) stars only because the 10 star reviews are often discounted as
over- the-top hero worship. But if Ironman, The Avengers, etc are 10
stars (and I liked those), this movie rates 100 stars - because it is
10X better, more important, more relevant, and more thought provoking.
<|_=00=_|>
The actors in this movie were fantastic, however the "rewriting of
history" was terrible.

The Butler's real name is Eugene Allen. Here is where the movie rewrote
history: he did NOT have a son who died in Vietnam, he did NOT have a
son who became a Black Panther, his mother was NO raped by a white
cotton field manager, and his father was NOT murdered by the same white
man.

So if you take this "made up" stories out of this movie, you have a
much different movie. What a disservice to Eugene Allen. You would
think that this story could have been a true story, at the very least
the opening header should make a statement that this is a FICTIONAL
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
There's a scene about halfway through Lee Daniel's "The Butler" that is
perfect. 

African-American White House butler Cecil Gaines (Forest Whitaker) asks
his boss, Mr. Warner, for equal pay for African American staff. They
are paid less than white staff, he complains. The audience has been
watching Cecil Gaines for a while now, and we know he is an admirable
man. He certainly deserves equal pay. 

Warner tells Gaines that if he is not happy with his salary, he can go
work someplace else. 

Gaines is trapped in an invisible prison of white supremacy, and he
knows it. Whitaker's face shows all the agony of that moment. He
quietly leaves Warner's office. 

Forest Whitaker is utterly brilliant in this scene, as he is in the
rest of this choppy, heavy-handed, misguided film. 

That scene is worth the entire rest of the film "The Butler." That
scene has everything the rest of the film lacks: subtlety,
intelligence, and faith in its audience. 

Otherwise, "The Butler" is Civil Rights for Dummies plus an overload of
stunt casting. 

"The Butler" tells the story of Cecil Gaines, an African American White
House butler. The movie tells us it wants us to pay attention to this
humble, working class man. The movie depicts none other than Martin
Luther King Jr, right before his assassination, delivering a speech on
the importance of domestic workers. 

But the movie belies its own message. "The Butler" doesn't have faith
in its audience. It believes that we won't pay attention to this
humble, admirable butler. So the film dumps one big Hollywood star and
tabloid celebrity after another in small roles, and the film beats us
over the head with a dumbed-down, sensationalized, hate-whitey version
of Civil Rights. 

Stunt casting: Mariah Carey is on screen for about two minutes as
Cecil's mother, and Vanessa Redgrave is on screen for about three
minutes as his first employer. The casting of the presidents Cecil
worked for is flagrantly weird. It's as if the movie wants to set the
audience abuzz over why this or that actor was chosen. John Cusak as
Richard Nixon? Alan Rickman as Ronald Reagan?? Robin Williams as Dwight
Eisenhower??? Jane Fonda as Nancy Reagan???? Did the people who cast
this film take any of it seriously? James Marsden, though, is fine as
JFK. 

Oprah Winfrey plays Cecil's wife, Gloria. Oprah gives a fine
performance. The problem is, she is Oprah Winfrey, and her presence as
a celebrity never left my mind as I was watching her. Rather than being
moved by the plot, my mind wandered. I thought about her recent public
scandals, the Swiss purse incident, and calling Trayvon Martin a modern
Emmet Till. I thought about her boyfriend Steadman. I wondered why he
has never married Oprah. Again, Oprah's performance was spot on, but
the script was not compelling enough to allow me willing suspension of
disbelief. 

The film's dumbed down version of Civil Rights is aesthetically and
historically criminal. In the first five minutes of the movie, the film
depicts two African Americans lynched together beside an American flag.
They remain on screen for quite a while. The film returns to the image.
A black woman is raped by a white man. Again, weird casting: Alex
Pettyfer, one of the most handsome men in the world, is the rapist.
Why? Then a black man is killed. The n word is tossed around liberally.
Crosses are scary  the Klan burns one and attacks a freedom rider bus.
The film eventually states, in so many words, that America was a
"concentration camp" for African Americans for hundreds of years, worse
than what the Nazis did to the Jews. 

All the whites on screen are rich and powerful. All the blacks,
including the Black Panthers, are good, innocent, humble, hard-working,
harmless. The Civil Rights movement is all but exclusively black. 

This just isn't true. Comparing the Holocaust to slavery and Jim Crow
isn't accurate. The Black Panthers did some very bad things, including
to their own members. Thousands were lynched, not millions, thousands
of those lynched were white. The largest mass lynching in America was
of Italian immigrants; Leo Frank was lynched for being a Jew. 

African Americans made up roughly ten percent of the population; had
whites not been part of the Civil Rights Movement, African Americans
could never have achieved what they did. The film insists that the
Civil Rights Movement was inspired by a "brown man," Gandhi. But in
fact Gandhi was inspired by Tolstoy, Thoreau, Christ, and the Bhagavad
Gita. The film alludes briefly to Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner,
but does not name them. The film refers to these Jewish Civil Rights
martyrs only to cynically dismiss their sacrifice. Americans only care
about dead whites, the film says. If that were true, the Civil Rights
Struggle would not have achieved what it did. Jim Zwerg, a white man,
endured a horrible beating on one freedom ride because he, like many
Civil Rights heroes, was inspired by the Judeo-Christian tradition. 

I've lived in the Indian Subcontinent, where the religiously mandated
caste system, for millennia, has doomed Untouchables to lives in Hell.
I lived in Africa, where the slave trade still flourishes. From a world
perspective, the United States is not remarkable because it had slavery
and Jim Crow. From a world perspective, the United States is remarkable
because it produced the Abolitionists, John Brown, martyrs like Goodman
and Schwerner and Viola Liuzzo and heroes like Jim Zwerg and Rabbi
Heschel. "The Butler" presents an unbelievable conundrum  a country
populated exclusively by evil, rich white supremacists somehow
magically changed in 2008 and elected an African American president and
presto changeo everything was better for black people.
<|_=00=_|>
I was hoping to see a movie about the butler and his experiences in The
White House. I'm sure he had a lot of interesting stories to tell and a
lot of very interesting experiences in his many years in The White
House. Yes, the movie was about a butler to some degree, but it was
more about the civil rights movement and the evil white man. I would
love to know more about the butler. I would love to have seen his
experiences with the presidents the movie skipped over. I think in real
life he must have been more interesting than he was portrayed. I also
did not like the liberties the movie took with the real butler's life.
He spoke of no horrible event on the cotton fields as a child. He had
one son, not two. His son, who is still alive, was not a militant. His
wife did not have a drinking problem, nor did she have an affair. Why
add unnecessary drama? This movie will win awards because of its self
righteousness, but not because it's that deserving.
<|_=00=_|>
It's always about race with anything Oprah touches and this grossly
over-hyped movie is just another example.

One need only see the trailers, watch the clips on the entertainment
shows or read user (not critics') reviews to get a hint of what you're
in for if you choose to waste your money in a theater watching this
tripe.

The film is very loosely based on a real life butler - Eugene Allen
(1919-2010))- who had worked in the White House for 34 years from
Truman in 1952 to Reagan in 1986.

If you want to know the real story of the real butler, read Wil
Haygood's book OR do some research on the internet instead of lining
Orca's over-sized pockets by subsidizing yet another fictionalized
rewrite of history. 

Here are 3 short examples:

ONE - In the movie, Oprah (as the butler's wife) brags that the White
House called her husband to come work there. NOT SO. In reality, the
real life butler got his entry level job by hearing that they were
looking to routinely hire pantry workers at the White House. 

TWO - In the film version, the butler's son serves in Vietnam and gets
killed there. NEVER HAPPENED. Although the real life butler's son did
serve in Vietnam, he is alive and well today. No matter to the makers
of this film.

THREE - The real life butler never had a second son at all, let alone
one who was a Black Panther as depicted in the film. 

Like the liberal media, an agenda is in play here and this racially
pandering movie is just another 2 hours of the oprahization of America
- the essence of which is: black man good, whitey bad.

Waste of time, waste of money. Read the book if you care at all.
<|_=00=_|>
From the opening scene of this film I was viscerally affected.

Let's just get this out of the way: Forrest Whitaker gives a
magnificent performance in this film. Whitaker can dial it back (as he
does in this film) or dial it UP as he did in "The Last King of
Scotland" and play either with equal aplomb.

In terms of regard per performance, he's actually criminally
underrated.

I thought Oprah's performance was very good, but I also enjoyed Cuba
Gooding, Jr's return to a substantive role. It is nice to see him doing
something poignant and relevant again.

The pace of the film is good and keeps you interested despite the
flick's non-trivial running time.

It's not always an easy watch, but it wasn't meant to be.

This film is NOT meant to be a point-for-point reenactment of "the
real" butler's life, but a weaving together of vignettes and actual
historic occurrences. (It is BASED ON a true story, but not a biopic.)
In this vain, the movie succeeds flawlessly.

There are clever casting choices (Jane Fonda as Nancy Reagan REALLY IS
a hoot for anyone who knows their history) and while admittedly some of
the actors playing presidents lack the visages of their famous
characters, the acting itself defeats these deficiencies. (I found Liev
Schriber's LBJ hysterical AND accurate.) 

From the opening scenes of brutal rape, murder and disregard for human
life, to the struggle to maintain a semblance of decency and the fight
for basic quality of life, this film depicts the struggle of MANY black
people of the time - told through the prism of this butler.

I know this to be true because there are similar tales of these
occurrences in my OWN family. I don't have to look far.

This film won't play well with the "get over it" set - or anyone who
has ever used the term "race baiter." These folks are already
approaching this flick with a certain agenda - and they aren't ready
for it's truisms. Unfortunately, there are enough of them to result in
the ridiculously low rating this film has so far undeservedly garnered
on IMDb. Even the most ardent detractor who GENUINELY disliked this
film without political agenda would have to admit that this film isn't
a 1 star offering.

A rating that low is downright silly.

That said, for those of us who actually live in the real world and
understand historical context, you will probably enjoy this film
immensely. Like others, I experienced applause at the end of the film's
showing, and I'd call the crowd mix about 50/50 black-to-white at my
suburban theater. This would indicate to me, at least anecdotally that
the entire crowd appreciated the film.

This film is not meant to be a pure biography per se... in fact, I'd
say it's more about a FAMILY than even the butler or his job in
general, but we pay attention because this particular butler happened
to serve in the White House.

This film is REALLY about the generational struggles that occur in
EVERY family, but made even more powerful by the juxtaposition and
immediacy of the civil rights movement. This makes it STILL relevant,
as its problems still echo in the headlines today.

If you wind up drawing parallels between Emmett Till, Oscar Grant and
Trayvon Martin after watching this film - then you probably got the
intent- and most likely enjoyed it. If you are of the mind that racism
isn't that bad, the 50s in the south were "the good ol' days" and even
the holocaust was probably overblown, then this flick isn't for you.

Might I suggest "Gone with the Wind?"
<|_=00=_|>
Go see this movie..It shook me to my core..As a white person I've never
been more ashamed in my life..And saddened.. We are in the midst of
racial struggle for equal rights right now..I sat in a packed theater
with all white old people and you could've heard a pin drop.. It felt
like a Forest Gump movie but with the racial history of our country as
the topic.. and it was NOT a pretty picture. Thank you for doing this
movie Lee, it is something we all need to see as Americans and we all
have to face that we still have MAJOR racial bigotry. It must NOT be
tolerated! I am white, 63 yrs old, born in Miami Fl and living in LA.
Please go see this and then go about being an agent of change..we need
to move on to better things and stamp out racism in America..it has NO
place here..and we should all be ashamed of it's existence and allowing
it to persist.. The cameos were priceless and OPRAH, (tho I am not a
fan) was incredible!
<|_=00=_|>
You'll feel emotions throughout "Lee Daniel's The Butler," but you'd
also cry if someone kicks a kitten on TV. Dropping in simplistic scenes
of hardship and meager triumph does not a good film make. This is not a
good film.

Technically, it's fine. And it's got a lot of stars. Some are hard to
spot such as Vanessa Redgrave as a racist Southerner and Jane Fonda as
Nancy Reagan. But, it's overlong even though the story spans nearly
nine decades. In all those years, very little actually seems to happen.

Nothing really happens with our hero, Forest Whitaker as White House
butler Cecil Gaines. He does his job quietly. He has very little impact
on those around him either at home or in the House. The film is named
for this person. It would be nice if he was interesting.

The only real action comes from Cecil's son Earl Gaines (David Banner).
Earl takes up the fight for civil rights. But, even he's mostly along
for the ride, so while he's not substantial enough for his own movie,
without him in this one, I probably would have fallen asleep.

And that's the thing. For all the dramatic tension offered by the
subjects of fighting for civil rights in the South and working in the
White House, this film is surprisingly boring. Sure, I got to see lots
of cameos by famous actors as Presidents of the United States, yet even
Robin Williams as Dwight Eisenhower did little to elevate my interest.

Like Forest Gump, the events of history pass by around Forest
Whitaker's butler. He is alongside every president from Ike to Reagan.
Unlike "Forest Gump," it's never that entertaining.

"Forest Gump" and "Lee Daniel's The Butler" also share a feeling that
they take themselves to be significant films saying important things,
but I am hard-pressed to say just what those things are. Putting
powerful, historical events on screen is not the same as saying
something insightful about them.
<|_=00=_|>
I am an avid movie watcher. I enjoy most movies. However, when a movie
portrays itself as a historical account about a figure that is easily
verified, then at least it should be accurate. I understand artistic
license and also understand that actors/actresses and directors have
personal motives in what they do and how it is done. This is so far off
historical fact that it is almost a comedy. I am sure that there was a
way to keep it historically accurate, and still forward the agenda of
those involved. Outright fiction was not needed. Those that refuse to
educate themselves and believe hype and fairy tales deserve the school
of hard knocks that life will hand them when they attempt to use the
hype and fairy tales as facts.

It would be important to note: Not all Blacks were slaves. Not all
slaves were Black. Not all slave owners were White. Not all atrocities
to slaves were at the hand of whites. While slavery is detestable in
modern constructs, historically for thousands of years it has been
practiced. That does not justify slavery, it is however a fact. Sadly,
this movie will win many accolades, not because of the accuracy,
acting, story / plot, or other factors, but only because of hype and
political correctness. I am sorry if I have offended people. But, I
have expressed my opine, you are welcome to disagree. To me the movie
was a waste of time, and money. Not just mine, but all those that are
suckered into seeing it.
<|_=00=_|>
Although the movie is based on a true story, a story that is very
interesting, the producers couldn't leave it alone. Instead, they
tampered with it so much that they made such an interesting story,
uninteresting.

The only bright spot in the movie is Forest Whitaker. Given what he had
to work with, he did a superb job of playing Eugene Allen. Allen was a
humble man and Whitaker captures that humility. Originally, Denzel
Washington was selected to play the part but it is unlikely that
Washington, as good an actor as he is, could portray a humble man.

One of he big weaknesses in the film was the supporting cast. Oprah
Winfrey was miscast as the butlers wife. That really distracted from
Goines. Oprah came across as much too strong a personality as if the
film was centered around her instead of Goines and her acting was
mediocre. In real life, the story was about Allen, and not about his
wife, but Oprah made the film as much about her as Allen. There are two
explanations for writing the story to include Oprah. Either, the
producers wanted her star power, or more likely, they needed her money
to produce the film and had to cast her in the movie to get it.

Other than the strong performance by Whitaker, about the redeeming
thing about the movie is that at least viewers are aware of the basic
theme of the story, as fictionalized as it is, is that there was a
butler of color that served eight presidents, was invited by one
president to an official dinner, and got to see a man of color elected
president. But we all could have learned that if it had been made a TV
documentary rather than a crappy movie.
