
Not being a huge fan of superhero movies, I didn't have much
expectations for Batman Begins. However viewing the 2005 Christopher
Nolan production, I was pleasantly shocked. Then after my huge
expectations for, "The Dark Knight", Christopher Nolan blew my
expectations to the dust. Will the same happen with the 3rd and last
film, "The Dark Knight Rises"? Quite simply, Yes! My big expectations
were once again, blown away. What a production! This is a true
cinematic experience, to behold. The movie exceeded my expectations in
terms of action, and entertainment. The editing, sound, score, visuals,
direction and action are all top notch. 

The film contains a fine cast of talented actors. Christian Bale, of
course still makes is a great Batman. Michael Cain is fantastic, as he
always is. He gives such a powerful performance, he really ought to be
considered for an Oscar nomination. Tom Hardy as Bane is utterly
terrifying, at times, and completely ominous. Anne Hathaway as
Catwoman/Selina Kyle is a scene stealer. She is completely engrossing.
Everyone is so great, the dynamic scenes between the actors are so well
done, so well written, and so well directed. The Dark Knight Rises is
is emotionally riveting and amazing to view.

At a running time of almost 3 hours, the film never becomes dull, which
is pretty impressive. The movie's action sequences are spectacularly
well created and very intense. The dialogue between the character's are
intelligent and highly believable. The movie's soundtrack is terrific
and really exemplify's many of the movie's scenes. Extremely well
editing and sound use really develop many of the movie's action scenes,
so it's not just explosions and visuals like in many other movies.
Nolan creates a grand, dirty, engrossing world, and his action
sequences just hum. 

In conclusion, this film is a gorgeous reminder that great writing and
direction can enhance any movie-going experience, even superhero
movies, which are usually thought of as mindless entertainment. I am
wholly satisfied with Christopher Nolan's vision and thank all who
worked on this film for bringing such an intricate interpretation of
its very famous literary source. I cannot recommend this film anymore
than I have, I just have to say everyone and anyone should see it.
10/10"
<|_=00=_|>
Christopher Nolan has outdone himself with this one. At 3.30 in the
morning, I was tired. Just getting out of it, I've never been so awake. 

Perhaps what set this film apart from his other films was that it had a
genuine emotional heartbeat. I felt that this was a flaw of Nolan's
other films - the vision of emotion was there, but it was hollow. In
this I bought it. I felt it, hero and villain alike.

Christian Bale was typically brilliant as Batman, and I felt that Bruce
Wayne was more heavily embraced in this final installment. Bale added
emotional depth to the character - a plot point that I think went
astray in The Dark Knight - picking up from the development made in
Batman Begins.

Tom Hardy as Bane was quite simply, terrifying. No longer a dunderhead
"enforcer", but one of the criminal masterminds behind "Gotham's
Reckoning", coupled with a physical dominance strong enough to send
shivers down your spine.

Anne Hathaway as Selina Kyle defied my expectations. Hands up who was
not entirely convinced that that girl from the Princess Diaries could
handle an intensely physical role like Catwoman. But here I am, hugely
impressed. She added immeasurably to the value of the film.

Marion Cotillard fulfilled the role of Miranda Tate admirably, though I
suspect this was the most underdeveloped character of the film - though
after watching, I can see why.

The unsung hero of The Dark Knight Rises is Michael Caine as Alfred. A
heartfelt performance that helps drive the emotional content of the
film, helping Nolan sell his most well-rounded film to date. Caine's
performance in both presence and absence.

Special mention goes to Joseph Gordon Levitt, who is consistently
proving himself to be a big player in the Hollywood game. His role as
officer Blake felt like there could've been more, but it may just have
come all a bit much. It was a great performance, and Levitt sunk his
teeth into role. 

If you can, go see this in IMAX. If any film was to sell the format to
skeptics, The Dark Knight Rises would be IT. I'm happy Nolan stuck to
his guns and shot in 2D. 3D would have been unnecessary. 

I suppose at this point, I have to turn my focus on Nolan. If he ever
reads this... aspiring filmmaker to filmmaker, I've never been so
envious, jealous in all my life. It's a film that leaves me
floundering, wondering what I could possibly do to get anywhere near
this ballpark. Well done. I think an Oscar Nomination is in order.

From here, I'm not sure what to expect of the future. Does our
imagination carry us forward, or do the studios? Time will tell.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
What makes things worse, is that its predecessors were basically
intricate works of genius, but TDKR lacks essentially everything that
made The Dark Knight (particularly) one of the greatest superhero
movies ever produced. On top of all this, everyone's bandwagoning on
thinking it's great because it's "supposed" to be great, right?!?! How
could Nolan's finale not be a masterpiece?! Well, I'll tell you...

Bruce Wayne acts out-of-character from not just the first two movies,
but from the comic as well. Catwoman's motivation and place in the
story is weak, flat, and forced. For a movie that's almost three hours
long, you only get about 20 minutes of Batman in costume (if you're
lucky). The movie jumps in weird time increments that are mildly
confusing, but mostly forced to facilitate its wanna-be epic nature. 

As for more heavily SPOILERY observations...

Commissioner Gordon is barely in the movie, spending most his time
injured in a hospital, while Joseph Gordon-Levitt's character comes out
of the blue and does what you'd expect the Commissioner to be doing...
solution- COMBINE THE TWO CHARACTERS!!! 

The two Batman vs. Bane fights are flat and boring as hell. Bane is a
cardboard, unexplored (until a late-third act flashback... of all
ridiculous cliché plot devices) character that reaches for sympathy in
one of the most embarrassing, wanna-be-tender, totally out-of-place,
extremely laughable scenes I've ever seen in my life- HE FRIGGIN'
CRIES?!!?!? 

Every single, yes EVERY SINGLE cop in Gotham marches down into the
sewers on a tip that Bane's raising a secret army, only to have all the
entrances blown up so they can be trapped down there... for like three
months. Reread that last sentence and tell me what part of it makes
sense.

Bane holds Gotham hostage with a 4 megaton nuclear device, after
blowing up all but one bridge leading into and out of the city, for
three months and the U.S. government does nothing. Seriously, nothing.
It's said they negotiated a truce and had FEMA send in supplies for
survival. Read that last paragraph and tell me what part of it makes
sense.

The "real" villain reveals him/her self in an absurd Act 3 "twist"
that's followed by a narrated flashback (the same one that leads to
Bane CRYING), and throughout the entire monologue Batman sits there
doing nothing after a knife has been thrust/held into his side.

After the 2nd lame Bats/Bane fight, the bulk of the late Act 3rd
"action sequence" consists of little more than Batman flying around in
that weird-looking clunky flying thing that supposed to be the Bat
Plane- half of which is of him outmaneuvering missiles that the bulky
"plane" couldn't have possibly eluded.

I really, really, really, really, really, really wanted to not just
like this, but LOVE it, but as it progressed the enthusiasm cloud
gradually cleared to the point of my being utterly flabberghasted in
disappointment- mostly because I can't believe the director of The Dark
Knight and the masterpiece that is Inception was responsible for this
movie. It's lazy and uninspired to the point of being offensive to
everyone who's ever been not just a Batman fan, but a fan of non-
intelligence-insulting movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't get what all the 10's are about. I don't see how this movie is
a 10, or rather even an 8. There are so many plot holes, the characters
are so one dimensional, action sequences OK at best.

Where do I even begin. Banes voice. I admit, I didn't get what he was
saying more than half the time, and even then I had to strain really
hard. It was just awful. There were jokes about not understanding Bales
growling, but this, this is something else. The movie would have been
better without him talking.

Catwoman! Suddenly she feels remorse and becomes goody goody at the
end, Oh the lord, this was about as predictable as rain in
Seattle(very, if you're unsure).

Talia, what a big face-palm. Might as well have made a movie when the
Batman woke up from a dream at that point. Can the plot get ANY more
clichéd? Thanks for popping up the MAIN criminal at the end of the
movie, who apparently had the hots for Batman.

Batman, his screen time is mostly groaning and screaming and getting
beaten around in boxing by Bane. He becomes a superior fighter by
jumping across the ledge? I think that's not how the body works. There
isn't any Batman stuff at all. Just punching and kicking. Muhammad Ali
would have been a better hero to fit that role (Yay, incoming dislikes
from people who don't know who that is). Also, big copter no one can
find, yea right.

Sheep followers wanting to get blown up. Ya, because getting evaporated
by a nuclear bomb is so awesome that every "mercenary" wants to do it.
Oh, but they didn't know that they'd be blown up.

All policemen going underground like a herd of cows because they want
to scout out the underground operations and therefore getting caught.
Sigh.

Big fight scenes. Police officers don't walk in formation with guns
against a bunch of mercenaries on higher ground and they all don't
start shooting at point blank range. No. That's not how police work. Or
any modern force with guns. That ONLY works in Lord of the Rings,
because they had SWORDS! Who wrote this script?

The other batman movies were good. The first one was great. The second
was good too. This one is ridiculous. I don't know how people can be so
blind to so many obvious flaws. Even with that, the best moments in
this film are...unimpressive. Did I go into the theater with high
hopes. Not at all. I expected average, I was disappointed to not find
even that.

Will be ever get another Prestige from these guys? I hope so.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the honor of watching TDKR during a screening and was completely
blown away! Christopher Nolan's third film in his Batman trilogy
doesn't disappoint. The movie is incredibly well made, its huge
production is quite breathtaking to view. This is a true cinematic
experience, to behold. The movie exceeded my expectations in terms of
action, and entertainment. The movie's score high-lites many of its
incredible scenes, and at times, it takes your breath away.

The film featured excellent performances, by all the cast. Christian
Bale, as always is great as Batman. Anne Hathaway was completely
engrossing, she became "Catwoman", just like Michele Pfeiffer did,
although their interpretations were very different, both were equally
effective. Tom Hardy was the main villain "Bane" completely shattered
my expectations. One of the best superhero movie villains, I've ever
seen. The terror caused by him, is completely believable and quite
menacing. Marlion Cotilliard, Michael Cane, Gary Oldman, and others all
did well in their respective roles. Now I know most will miss Heath
Ledger as the Joker.(I know I do) I hope people don't compare Tom
Hardy's performance to Heath Ledger's, its completely unfair and the
two characters are very different. Just read the comics.

The colossal size of the film is a spectacle to behold, but
surprisingly you don't get lost with all the explosions and extravagant
action scenes, like in other films,(AKA Transformers, or POTC.) If one
were to gripe, and I suppose there will never be a film made that one
cannot find a point at which to grip, it is painfully long running time
here. I found myself more worried about the pain in my posterior than
the emotional final minutes after almost 3 hours that I had spent in a
cramped seat, but that's just how I am. However the ending is just
fantastic, so emotional and bring the trilogy to a very satisfying end.

Sorry if I'm being all fan-boyish and kissing this movie's behind, but
I really admire it. It may not be among my personal favorites but
generally this seems to be the movie event of this year. As a film
though, this is amazing. A true lasting legacy in superhero story
telling and summer-blockbusters.
<|_=00=_|>
As this movie was the most awaited movie of the decade, I obviously
wanted to watch it as soon as possible. My friend won some contest
online and so, I got to watch it a few days earlier FOR FREE.

The movie is everything you want it to be. The story is very well told
and there is enough of Nolan-kind twists. Tom Hardy has some powerful
lines as Bane but the enhanced voice doesn't work at all. But, he still
does his character justice and performs to his full potential. For the
first time in the trilogy, Batman wasn't the strongest. This gave a
chance to Christian Bale to show off his acting skills without the mask
and he did a fine job. The veterans Gary Oldman, Morgan Freeman and
Michael Caine went about their job as if it was just another day at the
office. But, a major surprise was Joseph Gordon-Levitt who portrays an
ordinary police officer and pulls of an unexpectedly awesome
performance. 

The special effects, sound and action were out of the world. Nolan
spent a lot of money and he made it visible in the movie. The movie
connects all the dots from the previous movies and provides a fitting
end to the saga. Although, personally I liked The Dark Knight better.
But, TDKR certainly came very close it.

Finally, I would like to thank Christopher Nolan for portraying Batman
in a way no one ever thought was possible and for making one the best
trilogy of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
I came out with slight disappointment after watching DKR for I had huge
expectations from Nolan after an exceptional TDK.

I am huge fan of first two installment of Batman Trilogy and I liked
DKR. It's a good movie but it could have been much better. 

So rather than discussing its merit, which are many, I am pointing out
its shortcomings.

It's the weaker than other movies of trilogy and simple reason being it
lacks strong characters. DKR is all about storytelling  just like
Nolan's Inception but not as efficient. And in doing so it fails where
Batman Begins and The Dark Knight had succeeded.

Batman Begins was all about fear, doubt, self-realization and
redemption where Bruce Wayne discovers his destiny as Batman. BB had a
story arc which set background for main characters  Batman/ Wayne,
Ra's al Ghul, Gordon (to some extent) and most importantly Gothom City
and hence set stage for a fitting climax.

The Dark Knight explores the theme of chaos, morality and belief
effortlessly and establishes characters of Joker, Harvey Dent/Two Face,
Rachel etc. so effortlessly that people choose to ignore even some
major plot holes. Heath Ledger's interpretation of Joker was so
mesmerizing that it single handily carried TDK to path of greatness/
critical acclaim.

But Dark Knight Rises is all about story telling  efficient but not
exceptional. Bane, Miranda Tate, John Blake, Peter Folly (Deputy
Commissioner), Selina Kyle  characters are introduced but never
explored/ expanded - they just start working on their part - just like
cogs in the wheel. They are not so much part of the story itself but
just the agents which move the story forward.

Bane's character is dull and single dimensional and do not evoke any
fear or awe. He's meticulous, intelligent and strong and this is
established quickly in movie but after that he slumps into a just
another movie villain. Taila / Miranda character is never fully
explored. Even Wayne/Batman is devoid of any emotions in this one and
he feels so sure of himself that I start wondering if it's the same
Batman that I saw in first two installments. Only new character which
had some shades was that of Selina Kyle and Anne Hathaway did justice
to it. Add to that helplessness of Alfred portrayed superbly by Caine.
Other actors are good but there's not much for them to do.

There's no dilemma,doubt, love, choices, moral battles, hope, even no
chaos/fear- things which make characters and plot interesting ( at
least for me) and which made Batman Begins and The Dark Knight really
good movies. Even the theme of "Occupy Wallstreet" is very weak and at
best it's closer to London riots with its loot and arsoning. There's
even perfect order in Bane's revolution. Movie moves effortlessly from
one plot to another and to climax that it become at times predictable.

But maybe Dark Knight Rises was supposed to be like that only and Nolan
had too much to deal with in 2.5 hours. And maybe that's the main
problem with DKR  too much is going on in the story that it seems
crammed at times. And when there are too many characters and so many
story arcs and it's tough to do justice to characters and story telling
at the same time. And this is when you start looking for plot holes,
slackness, predictability et al.

-----------------some spoilers----------------------- 

Such as Bane's plan cement/explosive, Wayne- Miranda's romance, Blake
guessing Wayne's personality, Miranda-Talia twist, Batman doing Angels
& Demons stunt,Batman's escape from death, Blake as Robin (LOL) and
Alfred in last scene.

------------------spoilers end -------------------------

All movies have a style which depends on story and its story teller.
And there' no point of comparing different styles, say that of
Starwars, Godfather, Transformers or story tellers say Tarantino,
Cameron etc. Whatever maybe the style, good movies play to its
strengths  story/screenplay, characters, style, pace or all. Try to
recall some good movies and think what you like the most.

Dark Knight Rises have a good story but lacks strong characters and
relies Inception's style which incidentally differs from style of first
two installments of Batman Trilogy. 

And for me, soul of Nolan's Batman Series is its strong characters,
their underlying emotions and a theme which is much deeper and
meaningful than all fight, gadgetry and style. And this is where DKR
fails. 

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not one for writing reviews, but the positive response this movie
is getting makes me uneasy. I'm really worried about the general
population. 

The acting is just shocking. Michael Cain delivers a good performance,
but because everyone else is so terribly 2 dimensional, his character
seems almost comically overacted. 

The story is cliché, poorly written and the time-jumps are just bad.
Why is Bane pushed aside in the last 15 minutes of the movie and an
intelligent, interesting character turned into some girls thug (some
girl we know, or care, nothing about). It's bad, I didn't know Nolan
was capable of anything this poor. The movie would have been far better
if Bane was a real person trying to incite a real revolution. And I
find the glorification of the rich in this film interesting at a time
when their is global social unrest towards them in real life. Is this
propaganda or what?

Why don't the bad guys use their guns? Don't they know that just
pointing them at batman doesn't do anything? And walking closer and
closer to him until the gun is almost touching him also doesn't help?
And then using their gun as bat instead of as a gun is also stupid? And
the background combat is also lame. I saw way too many punches that
actually didn't touch the face of their victim. It's just poor and
unacceptable. 

Why the hell do all the cops just walk towards the enemy in a big mass?
Only the first line can fire? One grenade in the middle of them will
destroy them? What kind of city sends all of their cops down a hole?
Even if they somehow decided doing this was a good idea, they wouldn't
send 10 thousand cops leaving the city unprotected. How about the army?
When Batman tells robin (LOL) to get people off the Island, why does he
go and grab 10 kids? Out of a city of millions? Where the hell is the
cities population? Why don't we see anyone except Bane and a few of
this thugs? How does Batman keep appearing exactly where he needs to be
at exactly the right time without explanation? Who the hell is
cat-women and why do we care? Why does the bad chick (who's Banes boss
apparently) keep yabbering with her finger on the detonator, instead of
just pressing the damn thing? It's not 1990, those things just aren't
acceptable. 

Oh god the prison scene, It's been a long time since I've wanted to
vomit and kill myself at the same time, but this did it. Cliché to the
maximum. And when Garry drops the bomb diffuser just out of fingers
grasp, on the moving truck. Man, come on Nolan, were you even a part of
this film or did you just pay others to do it for you and pick up the
pay-check? Did anyone who's raving about how good this film is even
watch it? Makes me depressed. 

I could go on and on but I can't be bothered and nobody is going to
read it. This should be a 6 on IMDb, and that's generous. People are as
stupid as the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
My areas of disappointment : 1) Bane, 2) the threat on the city
(nuclear), and 3) the Mr. Nolan's surprising lack of storytelling and
bleak cinematic visual (even though he seemingly had the best filming
tools to deliver so.). 

1) I only wished the Mr. Nolan did not abruptly reduce his newest
villain, Bane, to something so insignificant and small. The menacing,
intelligent, "brute force" was indeed a towering figure throughout the
movie until he presents himself as secondary towards the end of the
trilogy.

2) And the threat on Gotham City, a nuclear one, was surprisingly
unoriginal considering how innovative the poisonous vapor threat was in
"Batman Begins" or how chaos forced the protagonists of Gotham to make
extremely troubling decisions in "The Dark Knight." 

3) Something breathtaking was so suppose to happen in either the plot
or in the IMAX grandeur. However, Mr. Nolan surprisingly failed to
deliver in both areas. Mr. Nolan did not make us hold our breath like
he did in the "Dark Knight" nor did he captivate our focus with his
playful plots and mind bending cinematic visuals as he did in
"Inception." In other words, I could not help but looking back at his
past films while watching the "TDKR." 

There were a few other things that caught my immediate, negative
attention. But who cares. It is really over now. This was how Mr. Nolan
decided to end this truly life defining story. With that said, I am
simply stunned and truly hurt that the trilogy had to end . . . like
this.

 davidwoongkim, Seoul
<|_=00=_|>
The best thing about this movie is how satisfying it is. It doesn't
leave you frustrated or confused. You can't really complain that it
didn't explore certain ideas or follow through. By deciding to have an
official ending to this trilogy's story, the themes surrounding Batman
are very fresh. We don't know where he'll end up. It's not the same old
thing about whether he can continue to be Batman or not, which was
already getting repetitive in Spider-man 2. The conclusions are not as
important as the feelings they invoke as they come about. Nolan is
especially good at capturing the complete tension of actually not
knowing what will happen and deeply questioning what you *want* to
happen and why.

This movie is bigger than the previous two, far more ambitious. There
are no obvious annoying weaknesses that usually come with films in
general, especially blockbuster action movies. All of Nolan's movies
have deep psychological themes and this takes those in another new
direction. I thought Inception was hugely original and insightful about
the way people think. That level of abstraction and depth is present in
this film. Bane bursts into it, his reputation is quickly established.
Nolan uses people's expectations and anticipation to the fullest. We
are left to wonder about what has happened in the 8 years since the
events of The Dark Knight. Why have the characters become the way they
are now?

In the latter half, it does seem like the movie is trying to pull off
so many different plot points and connections, but they all work. The
cast is very large and impressive. You don't see "good acting". You see
fascinating characters. They're just playing their part in the grand
story that's being crafted. There are many unfamiliar faces but they
all have a strange, unique look to them. We often see a person's flaws
and previous decisions coming back to haunt them. They find out the
hard way what mistakes they have made. Where their limits are. Where
they lose control.

The score is almost tribal, very raw and energetic. You don't get much
chance to pay attention to it but many parts of the movie are pounding
with excitement. There are countless quotable lines and disturbing
slices of dialogue. They cut deep. The Joker was a great character and
this is a very different movie but the themes are just as dark, only
perhaps indirectly. Underneath, it's very sinister. Writing and
efficiency appear to be among Nolan's greatest strengths. The story has
many layers that interweave and apparently they came in under budget.

Perhaps the most important thing about Catwoman is that she's
completely believable. When she beats up men, you don't roll your eyes.
She's feminine and powerful in her own way. She fits into the world and
we completely understand her motivations. She doesn't have a huge role
but a very important one.

I didn't find myself moved but maybe I'm too cynical. I was more
affected psychologically. Curious about humanity and all the different
sides of it you see in this movie. It goes to many extremes. I felt
humbled by my complete lack of life experience. What do I know about
anything? How could I possibly understand half of the characters? I
haven't been through anything or achieved anything compared to most of
them. Michael Caine gets a bigger role this time. He was always
critical but this time he's very much the emotional core.

I thought Christian Bale was overlooked in The Dark Knight especially.
The movies hinge on him. Bruce Wayne's just a man but also incredibly
inspirational. Bale's famous for completely committing to his roles and
it pays off. Tom Hardy is impressive as Bane but I suppose that's no
surprise. The rest of the leads are similarly awesome. There are many
references to the earlier films. Very few questions are left
unanswered. It's always nice when film-makers really think it through
and make an actual decision and get all the details right.

So anyway, I'll miss Batman (since the trilogy has ended) but couldn't
have hoped for a better, more epic and sincere finale to his story.
