
I saw the Broadway play with the original cast and had a great time.
The movie didn't disappoint me either. A cheesy love story tied
together with great music from the hair band 80's was on purpose.
Re-living that era, priceless. Go. Enjoy. This will definitely become a
cult favorite in future years, bless 'em for preserving some amazing
rock history. Ignore the professional critics, go have fun!

This is my first review attempt on IMDb, with hopes this helps those
who are turned off by People, EW, local and national news professional
(aka, paid) reviewers. I'm a pop culture junkie and a grandma, I don't
always agree with the pros. I'm sorry Rock of Ages had a poor box
office start out of the gate, but hopefully my little review piece will
bring some fun to those clinging to their entertainment dollars. Great
party experience!
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I were both in high school during the 1980's and we loved
this movie. So the story isn't Academy Award material, but it was the
most fun we have had at the movies in a while. The 80's music is not
the original work, but still performed well and placed great in the
movie. Tom Cruise is a hoot in his role (think Axl Rose) and the others
weren't bad either. Small cameos by some 80's rock stars. I have seem
some references to its similarity to Grease and its portrayal of the
1950's. I think that is a pretty good comparison. Again, if you are not
a fan of the 80's, you probably won't like this too much. But, if you
like the 80's and its music, you will probably enjoy this movie and
leave with a smile.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm 60, I want to have some fun, and this movie was fun. It put me
right in the Bourbon Room audience, blithely wearing the tasteless and
bizarre outfits that I couldn't wear because I was setting a standard
of decorum for my kids in those days, and embarrassing them was
anathema. It features a period of Rock (1987) when the genre was
flanked by inane crap "music" aimed at the 13-16 year olds I was
raising. Fortunately they didn't bite. This movie features the
memorable music of the decade that my grandson is now still honoring.
This music and that of the late 60's and early 70's helped me as a
beleaguered working mom "Rock" through a day of commutes, housework,
and culture shock. I don't "get " the focus on plot and antics that
some of the more "serious" reviewers are stroking themselves with. I
paid $8.00 and didn't fancy myself being at a rock concert or a stage
play, but I got all of that feel and more. I would have paid $30 just
to see Baldwin grunged, and desperate but hopeful. Cruise's character
looked shaky at first. But as usual, in trademark style, he starts off
blas√© and then explodes into passion and surprise. Paul Giamatti and
Zeta-Jones were fun to despise in their hypocrisy. Hough and Boneta
were fresh, talented and beautiful. Mary J. Blige (Justice Charlier)
was superb, and although I never "got" Russell Brand before, he was the
most fun of all. Leave your pretense at home. PLOT!? Yada Yada. If you
are pushin' or draggin' 60, go pig out on some Italian and party with
"Rock of Ages".
<|_=00=_|>
So I realize there plenty of cynical people out there that think
enjoying a fun musical isn't as cool as bashing it. If you listen to
these people, then pretty much everything "sucks" or is an "epic fail".
I don't think this movie is being given a fair shot. First off, Tom
Cruise gave a great performance and, believe it or not, sings rather
well. The plot was slightly predictable but, nevertheless, the movie
was fun and energetic. If I had to give any criticism, it would be that
Mary J. Blige was underused and Alec Baldwin delivered a couple of bad
lines. All in all, it was a very entertaining movie. I realize people
like to get on the net and complain and say how stupid everything and
everyone is, but don't let that sad, grumpy mind-set keep you from
seeing this movie. The song performances alone are worth the price of
admission.
<|_=00=_|>
I feel compelled to submit a review for this movie, purely because some
of the atrocious reviews I've seen contributed by others.

To give context, I grew up in the 80s and 90s, and pretty much know all
the songs backwards - surprisingly... decades later. I did not grow up
in LA, or the States for that matter, but I most certainly grew up with
just about every song played in this movie.

I absolutely hate musicals. With a passion. So, even though my friends
encouraged me to watch this movie, I resisted. Eventually I caved, and
all I can say is that I absolutely loved the movie! My wife loved the
movie, but in all honesty, our 10 year old thought it was OK - purely
because she didn't know any of the songs.

If you love rock, and grew up with 80s rock, this movie is for you.
This movie isn't called Rap of Ages or Pop of Ages or R&B of Ages or
Classical Music for the Ages... it's called Rock of Ages. Reviewers
posting they walked out after 15 minutes, really shouldn't contribute
here. And quite frankly, you need to have a serious problem if you are
analyzing the actors voices with respect to the original artists. This
movie is good fun, and true to the times... 

This movie is THE musical for all rockers out there! Absolutely
wonderful fun for the family, with a stellar performance from the
entire cast. A good couple of chuckles in there, and if you're over 35
years old... I dare you to not sing along with some of those classics.
With so much rubbish coming out of Hollywood to keep the nay-sayers
busy with their critical reviews, this is a refreshing change.

If rock is not your choice of music, skip this movie... but if you grew
up in the 80s, you should appreciate the music, fun and experience
portrayed in this movie.

This movie rocked!
<|_=00=_|>
*There are no real spoilers in this review, just some minor plot
details.

I had the privilege of being able to see this at an advance screening a
couple of months ago. Just to let you know, I have never seen the
Broadway show, so I can't compare the two.

On one hand, Tom Cruise stole the show as he always does. He plays the
role of aging rocker Stacee Jaxx, tasked with saving the Bourbon Room
from the villainous Patricia Whitmore's (Zeta-Jones) wrath. He has a
killer voice, and he shared some great chemistry with journalist
Constance Sack (Malin Akerman). I think everybody is going to love
those two together.

On the other hand, the two lovebirds Sherrie Christian (Julianne Hough)
and Drew Boley (Diego Boneta) just did not bring a lot of chemistry.
And their acting ability is so far inferior to the likes of the
Cruises, Baldwins, and the Giamattis of the world. And when they are
the leads, it kind of brings down the movie a little bit. The singing
was great, but isn't that the standard for musicals? I would've
preferred Brittany Snow be cast alongside the original Drew Constantine
Maroulis. Even though I have not seen the original play live, I've seen
numerous of his performances either live or on the computer.

Another critique I have is that the whole thing is a little too much.
This film felt a little busy to me. I almost wish someone would have
told Adam Shankman to tone it down a little because it fizzled a little
towards the end.

The musical numbers in were just incredible. As someone in the younger
generation, I don't believe I could appreciate the the 80s music as
much as the people born in the later 1950s, 1960s, and early 1970s.
But, make no mistake, every single number was executed pretty well. I
happened to like the performances more than Shankman's previous
musical, Hairspray.

It was legitimately funny. Even if you don't like Tom Cruise
personally, he kills it in every movie he's in. His scenes are the
best. I was also impressed by the performances of Alec Baldwin, Russell
Brand, and Paul Giamatti. Even singer Mary J. Blige got involved.

This is a movie that is some big time fun. It's not for everybody, as
the person sitting next to me reminded me of. But if you liked
Shankman's Hairspray, then you'll probably have a place for this one in
your heart too.

Kudos to Adam Shankman and Chris D'Arenzio (creater) for achieving what
they wanted to accomplish.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. A few upfront disclosures are in
order: I spent quite a few evenings on the Sunset Strip during the era
of this story; I had no idea who Diego Boneta was and only vague name
recognition of Julianne Hough when I walked in; and I never saw the hit
Broadway production. These points may help explain my reaction to the
movie.

The opening sequence immediately informs us that we are in for
something different. Aspiring singer Sherrie Christian (Ms. Hough) is
running from her backwoods Oklahoma life to the bright lights of fame
offered by Hollywood. While on the bus, we get the first of an endless
stream of staged karaoke routines ... "Sister Christian" (get it??).
Once on Sunset Boulevard, she is quickly mugged and then comforted by
Drew (Mr. Boneta), an aspiring singer and current barhop at The
Bourbon, an obvious nod to such hallowed rock ground as Whisky A Go Go
and Roxy.

No need to spend much time discussing plot. There is a muddled love
story filled with teenager dreams and miscommunication, and a financial
crisis at The Bourbon, thanks to back taxes owed by manager Dennis
Dupree (Alec Baldwin), and a political backlash against the club thanks
to the Mayor's wife (Catherine Zeta-Jones), who has a not so secret
need for revenge. The only way to save the club is for rock idol Stacee
Jaxx (Tom Cruise) to play a gig. The only way to save the love story is
to write it out of the film all together. The political agenda is
simply an excuse to add two more excruciating karaoke numbers.

What little fun there is in the movie is thanks to Cruise, Baldwin and
Russell Brand, who plays Baldin's sidekick and confidant. Cruise jumps
into the Jaxx role with both feet and seems to understand that a parody
should be fun. Being a rock idol isn't far removed from being the
biggest movie star on the planet, so Cruise blends Axl Rose and Bret
Michaels to create Jaxx ... throw in a pet baboon, two He-men
bodyguards, an endless train of groupies, and a dragon codpiece ... and
you get Stacee Jaxx, legendary rock star.

If one is going to make a rock 'n roll movie, it either needs to be
played straight (Almost Famous) or as a head-on parody (This is Spinal
Tap). What it can't do is celebrate the dead zone of lameness: lame
music covered by lame singers playing lame characters. No amount of
star power actors can overcome material that doesn't capture the power
and passion of the music. And we aren't even talking real rock n roll
here ... this is glam rock, stadium rock, big hair bands. Yet, the
movie still falls incredibly short of making a statement or providing
insight or even entertainment.

Cruise's performance generates some laughs, as do Baldwin and Brand.
However, Hough and Boneta aren't even cringe-worthy. They have no
screen presence and neither belong in a rock movie. Maybe the real
problem is that most of the songs in the movie have survived these 25
years because of their mediocrity ... they can easily be sung while
intoxicated. Evidently that's not enough for a decent movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1987 I was 22. So I actually lived through this musical era. And it
was a lot more fun being there in person in the 80s than sitting
through this movie. First of all, there were filming glitches. In a
couple of places including the bus station early in the movie there
were things on screen that would not have existed in the 80s. That
threw me off right away because the attention to detail of the era was
lacking. But on to the acting and the music. The only real shining star
of the movie was Tom Cruise. And I don't even like him. But he was fun
to watch. Everyone else seemed air brushed and auto tuned. Russell
Brand and Alec Baldwin were also decent. But the entire movie just
didn't seem 80s enough to me. I'll put it this way. During the first
hour I was debating walking out. The second hour I was checking my
watch. I made it through but wish I had been more into it. 

On another note, what was 80s about the strip club? The outfits, the
interior....nothing said 80s to me. I feel like whoever was styling
this movie either wasn't alive during the 80s or doesn't remember how
everything, including outfits, looked. 

Anyway, I give it a 4 for Tom Cruise. Other than that, it's 2 hours of
my life gone forever.
<|_=00=_|>
What is there to say? This is a musical comedy about love, rock, music
industry absurdities, complete with aging
god-of-rock-at-the-very-lonely-top, with the cast actually singing
quite well... I enjoyed every minute of it.

Ignore the bashers. Ignore the thin plot. Ignore the complaints about
the movie not being what a musical should be - when compared to such
and such another movie. Just sit back, take it with a grain of salt,
and enjoy, the very nicely mixed-into-medley 80's Rock 'n Roll hits;
all extravagantly presented for your entertainment.

The movie is worth your time; if only for the breath of fresh air that
it provides, and of course, that priceless Ga-Ga-puppy-eyed-look of
Julianne Hough when up close and personal with Tom Cruise's Stacee
Jaxx. That was money all by itself.

Tom Cruise was excellent as rock-god; Julianne Hough did a believable
sweet & innocent-small-town-girl-in-love. Alec Baldwin's character did
slightly weird me out, in a funny way. 

The movie rocks.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm an old goat who was, in the 80s, called the rock 'n roll Captain
where I worked. My son, who just turned 34, heard this music night and
day when he grew up. Last night, we saw the movie together and we both
enjoyed the hell out of it, even mocking the idea of hip-hop entering a
rock venue. 

Those looking for realism should recognize that a musical is never an
actual representation of the day and most often is a parody,
exaggerating and mocking its point. Rock Of Ages was just that, but in
a very fun way with good music and musical centered acting.

I recommend this movie because of all its elements: acting, setting,
music and and plot line.
