
Black Mass serves as a nice redemption for the floundering career of
Johnny Depp, who has leaned more on quirky voices and loud makeup than
his actual skills in recent years. His portrayal of mob boss Whitey
Bulger is a powerhouse performance and easily his best since he first
introduced the world to Jack Sparrow. It's too bad the movie as a whole
doesn't fair quite as well. Despite a great cast and some interestingly
insane source material, somehow a movie about one of America's most
infamous criminals feels more like small claims court. Director Cooper
focuses his narrative on Bulger's less-than-legal partnership with the
FBI. It's a fascinatingly close-knit community we witness (agents,
felons, politicians, and families alike) in which loyalty and
corruption go hand-in-hand. It's a grimy yet quiet 70's-feel gangster
film that engages its audience nearly as much as it reminds them of
better films. Therein lies its big problem: What is Black Mass offering
that hasn't already been perfected in other gangster films?
Unfortunately, instead of a true movie-making vision, it's like a guy
watched every crime drama from the last 40 years and just spit out a
less-interesting copycat. Not that a counterfeit of something great
can't still have its positives: the score is beautiful and the
performances from the top-notch cast around Depp are nearly as superb
as his, all of whom nail the oft-parodied Bostonian accent with aplomb.
But with too many side plots to juggle, not enough cohesion to the
storytelling, and an unfortunate lack of auteur vision, Black Mass just
can't stand against the great American crime films of yore (Chinatown,
Godfather, Goodfellas).
<|_=00=_|>
Black Mass: A Near Miss

'Black Mass' is another is a line of crime dramas set in Boston. The
film will inevitable be compared to 'The Departed.' And it falls short
in the comparison. The acting is top rate, and Depp is much better, not
as hammy, than the comic portrait of a crime boss by Nicholson in 'The
Departed.' Depp is genuinely threatening in the film and the make-up
job given him in the film adds to the fright. 

'Black Mass' has the look of a 70s television show, and that works in
its favor. In fact, the overall look of the film is exquisite. That,
and the acting, are the two best things in the film. However, the movie
is both too much and not enough. 

'Black Mass' tries to cover too much and thus it lacks focus. This is
where 'The Departed' succeeds. While 'The Departed' has many layers and
character, it has a focus: the Southie, Billy. 'Black Mass' doesn't
have a main theme, a main character, a main protagonist or antagonist.
There are a bunch of characters in tense situations with some irony and
symbolism. However, in the end, there is nothing to hold onto, no
lessons, no emotions, love or hate, for any characters. 

As I was watching, both my film buddy and I thought the same thing:
Scorsese could have made this story work with his writing and
directing. We also thought that in an era of long- form television that
it could have made a great 10-20 episode show. Then it could have gone
into depth about the childhood relationships between crime boss Bulger,
his FBI friend Connolly and Whitey's brother, State Senator Billy
Bulger. 

As miniseries, it could have more deeply explored the racial tensions
between the Irish and Italians with the African Americans stuck in the
middle. It could have taken a deeper look into Boston politics and
corruption, police corruption, and more. The miniseries could have also
gone further into the Irish American funding of the IRA. As it was, it
touched on each of those issues in an unsatisfactory fashion. If the
film had taken a deeper look into any ONE of those themes, it would
have made for a better movie. 

Rating: Matin√©e

For the great look and outstanding acting, I suggest you see it on the
big screen. Otherwise, wait for the miniseries. Hey, a man can dream. 

Peace, Tex Shelters
<|_=00=_|>
I swear to God I really really wanted to like this movie. I am kind of
a fan of Bulger's for some sick reason and I felt like Johnny Depp was
appropriately menacing and weird looking and did a good job with making
the Violence believable. What failed was the writing. There is never
really any attention paid to why Whitey was Whitey or how he got to be
Whitey or why he wanted to be Whitey. His kid is dead his marriage
ruined and he is just accumulating money to accumulate money? Why? He
apparently has no vices to speak of except giving money to con men from
the IRA. The whole thing just makes no sense. The whole thing just
seemed apathetic.It could have been a real classic but they fornicated
with the puppy yet again. It was just Depp looking weird and enjoying a
WHitey Halloween costume while he strangled hookers and killed
informants. Thanks Hollywood. I suspect you can blame the producers.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like slow, plodding movies full of unlikeable characters, by all
means gear up for this sleep inducing film. Goodfellas is an action
movie compared to Black Mass.

There are a few good qualities here: top shelf production, excellent
acting, a clear, concise story of characters making poor choices -
leading to predictable consequences.

But who cares? There's no entertainment here! None of these characters
are worth giving a damn about, and the few sporadic scenes that offer
any true value sit like islands on a still horizonless sea.

But I learned something... Really? This might be the number one reason
to sit through this boring expanse, and the info is not worth it. The
scumbags are scumbags, the protagonist is a weak, shallow excuse for a
law enforcer, and the other surrounding characters are bland at best
(including Benedict, who for all his talent, brings nothing of note to
an already white bread affair). Speaking of white bread - No culture
what-so-ever, and often these fat, out of shape gangsters look absurd
in their early 80's sunglasses and attire. There will be no awards
given for costuming or make-up here. True Depp is transformed with
prosthetics, but as a friend and I joked - his character is far
exceeded by the likes of Tom Cruise in Tropic Thunder.

If you've seen the trailer, you've been robbed of one of the films
three or four memorable moments. Interestingly, all of these good
scenes are just spice to the meat of the film. This is not a good
thing! When the main arc is dull, the violence (while realistic) lacks
stylistic punctuation, and the constant voice overs are delivered with
apathy... one wonders what the hell the director was thinking!

Waste of time, even for fans of actors involved.

my score? a disappointingly average 5 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I try not to get my hopes up too much for certain movies, and "Black
Mass" (which I got very excited about) just reminds me why.

Oh, Scott Cooper... how did you manage to make one of the most twisted,
unusual, and mysterious gangster stories into an emotionless web of a
film? From acting to editing, there was so much wrong that it's almost
surprising.

My main issue was the nonexistence of a certain necessity: stakes. In
all great mafia flicks, stakes are essential. Would "Goodfellas" have
been as remarkable if it didn't feel like any wrong move would set off
a universe-ending set of events? Would the "Godfather" have been
considered the greatest film of all time if a war wasn't seconds away
from breaking out? "Black Mass" managed to keep a story that easily
could've had those steaks from having any at all. This was, of course,
caused by the emotionless acting, but more on that in a second. But
this film really made me not care if the protagonist (whether you
consider that to be Bulger or Connolly) lives or dies; and in a mob
movie, that is a worse crime than anything committed on screen.

So the acting I blame entirely on Cooper. Every single actor did a
great job with what they were given, but the problem is that they were
given the wrong thing. For example, Depp was probably told to play a
silent yet psychotic, friendly yet intimidating crime lord. Did he do
that well? Absolutely. Is that who the character was written as? Not at
all. Same goes for Joel Edgerton's - who I thought did the best job out
of all of the actors - character, Jesse Plemons' character, and even
smaller characters like Adam Scott's. All those actors did well, but
not in the right parts.

The list goes on with issues, so let's talk about why the movie got 2
stars rather than zero (therefore, let's talk about the positives).
I've heard some critics discuss the overuse of violence in the film.
Though there is quite a bit of violence, I thought it was used very
tastefully. No blood was used where it didn't seem necessary, and
personally, I think that the violence becomes numbing, which takes us
even further into the mob guys' mentality on murder. Also, I thought
the shooting locations were very well chosen, as they really captured
the narrow-mindedness of the lead characters' lives.

So should you see this movie? -If you love mafia movies of any shape or
size, then go see it. -If you love Johnny Depp, wait until it comes out
on demand. -If you don't love mafia movies, haven't seen many mafia
movies, or just have none of the listed qualities above, then don't see
this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Encompassed with episodic rhythm and an awfully conventional format,
Scott Cooper mutates a story of rich soil capable of greatness to a
detaching and routine crime film. Black Mass grasps only on the
superficial layer as it focuses solely on documented events of the
crime they organized. Due to this, the movie suffers as it seems to be
merely a biography- laying out these horrific events in these specified
timeframes but not putting any focus on the characters that performed
it. All action, but none of the story that happens between that allows
the audience to view who they are and what they're like. Black Mass
fails to delve deeper into the roots, and this of course limits the
scope of all the actors. Great mob cinematography such as The
Godfather, Goodfellas, and the Sopranos- all of these were so great
because they allowed the audience to see what the characters were like
when they weren't shooting, beating, or plotting against people.

That being said, in their limited boxes boy do these actors put on a
show. Led by Johnny Depp and Joel Edgerton, the audience can tell
straight from the start that this cast reveled and lived their roles.
With the amount of overwhelming, heinous events; the film had to have
someone cold-hearted and sleazy, and woah did these actors become the
epitome of that. However, due to this heavily limited character, the
only "rise" the audience feels are from the bone-chilling actions that
these men did. Black Mass fails to captivate. And when the closing
credits roll a feeling of disappointment washes over you, as it feels
like you just watched an episode on the ID channel with really, really
good actors.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie with a bunch of my college friends (we are all in
college). They all loved it. And I will say that Johnny Depp and Joel
Edgerton were fantastic in this movie, however, the movie lacked the
qualities of a great mob movie. I have always been fascinated by the
mob genre. I have watched the sopranos, goodfellas, donnie brasco, the
godfather, and basically all mob movies under the sun. I feel like
Johnny Depp and Edgerton are great at portraying their characters, but
I feel like no other character was developed at all. Benedict
Cumberbatch is one of the great actors of today, but Cooper just wasted
his talents on a weak supporting role.

I was also looking forward to see the inner workings of how Whitey
Bulger came to power. I understand that he was a silent, cold-blooded
mobster that used the FBI to become to be one of the most influential
criminals in Boston. However, other then a few choking scenes and
murder scenes, I would have liked Cooper to show more of the specifics
of Bulger's rise to power. Also, we rarely see Bulger interacting in
the everyday mob-life, but we always see how he handles unique,
problematic situations all-the time. I would have liked to have seen
one normal day in Whitey Bulger's life given the movie was only was 2
hours long. 

Overall, a decent movie with great acting by Depp and Edgerton, but
lacking on some of the finer details of a classic mob movie. 

P.S. I could not take Ben Wyatt serious in that mustache.
<|_=00=_|>
The intrigue of all crime movies relies on a simple idea: people are
complex, but actions are not. Behind every reductive, one-word crime
¬ó"murder," "theft," "extortion"¬ñ is a human with a motive and a history
to support that motive. Part of the reason we follow the stories of
criminals is to overlay ourselves on their paths, trace the steps
around their intentions, and see where they turn where you would not.
Great crime stories give us the opportunity feel our own humanity guide
us through darkness. Unfortunately, I felt nothing while watching Black
Mass.

Heralded as a return to acting form for Johnny Depp, Black Mass tells
the true-crime story of James "Whitey" Bulger, a mythologized,
south-Boston crime lord who operated from the late 70's to early 90's.
As an adaptation of the best-selling book of the same name by Dick Lehr
and Gerard O'Neill, the film portrays the key years of Bulger's ascent
to power in the Boston crime world, during which he acted as an
FBI-informant through slick FBI agent (and Southie homeboy) John
Connolly (Joel Edgerton). At the behest of Connolly and his less
enthusiastic boss Charles McGuire (Kevin Bacon), Bulger provides
information that precipitates the downfall of the Italian mob, allowing
his own Winter Hill gang to take over all aspects of Boston crime, from
the drug trade to money laundering, and everything in-between.

However, with such a compelling, cant-fail crime premise, the film is
bafflingly hollow. Other than hearing a laundry list of crimes that
Bulger supposedly spearheads, we almost never see any crimes being
committed, other than the odd shotgun rampage or prostitute murder
(both which felt sadly derivative for such gruesome scenes). Doors
slam, money is exchanged, and men with furrowed brows walk hastily down
empty alleys¬óbut it never feels like we are made to understand why.

Where is the money coming from? What are Whitey's motivations? Who are
the victims of these crimes, or rather, where are the commoners (for a
film with such a large cast, it seems completely devoid of extras) of
Boston at all? Even the undeniable Benedict Cumberbatch seems adrift
and misused in his role as Whitey's state senator brother Billy Bulger.

Director Scott Cooper chose to focus only on a handful of key years
during Whitey's reign of terror, perhaps to draw focus on his peak
instead of wasting time on his rise or fall. Unfortunately, the result
is a dubiously avowed criminal juggernaut who feels¬ñand sometimes
looks¬ólike he is made out of paper. Much has been made of Depp's
transformation into the balding, ghostly Bulger through the magic of
makeup, prosthetics, and false teeth. He looks legitimately ghoulish
throughout the film, yet the performance feels thin and insubstantial,
perhaps less due to Depp's acting than to the camera's disinterest.

Depp does has his moments, especially in one particularly tense scene
where he slinks out of the shadows to confront Connolly's untrusting
wife Marianne (Julianne Nicholson), lurking over her like a pale,
demonic shadow. During that scene, I felt like I was watching a horror
movie. Afterwards, I could only lament the fact the rest of the movie
didn't try harder to be a horror movie, or didn't try harder to be
anything interesting at all.

Black Mass has the trappings of a great film with solid performances,
beautifully lit shots, and a wealth of source materials, making its
ultimate failure that much more disappointing. Crime stories are a
staple of American cinema and we accept them for their inherent
limitations. However, in 2015 it's simply unacceptable to approach the
making of a crime movie with absolutely no creative spirit.

Several other reviews have likened Black Mass to a poor imitation of
Goodfellas or other Scorsese films. If Goodfellas is the gourmet
p√¢tisserie of crime movies, then Black Mass is an airport Cinnabon, a
fluorescently lit sprawl of half baked, cookie-cutter crime characters
we've all come to expect¬ña dash of angry FBI chief here, a sprinkle of
disgruntled mob grunt there¬ñwho delivered their lines and then
seemingly evaporate into stale air. The movie runs over two
excruciating hours yet fails to make plain the impact of the Bulger's
crimes, resulting in a story which accomplishes the impossible feat of
feeling both protracted and unfinished.

Scott Cooper strives to portray Whitey Bulger as the boogeyman, an
unstoppable nightmare whose actions are made infinitely more terrifying
by the knowledge that they exist in reality. Instead, Black Mass is the
kind of dream that you forget the instant you wake up.

Please check out our website for full reviews of all the recent
releases.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't usually write reviews but I felt compelled to inform others
about how awful this film was. And I want to prefice this by saying I
love crime films and have seen the greats such as Goodfellas, the
Godfather, and The Departed but this was just drivel. 

Let's start with the acting: Johnny Depp plays Boston crime lord James
"Whitey" Bulger and reveals virtually nothing about the character he
plays aside from the violent actions he portrays. The supporting cast
does nothing to make this a compelling story either with the exception
of Joel Edgerton's John Connolly as a street-wise kid turned FBI agent
loyal to Bulger's cause. 

The pacing and dialogue are also the biggest culprits here. The film
develops slowly leaving the watcher wondering if it will ever pick up
to an emotional crescendo with only to find out the ride is as
monotonous as your daily drive. Moreover, the dialogue feels like
students taking turns reading out of a textbook. I know that the film
is a biographic one but there's no need to have it feel as though
you're reading a Wikipedia article. 

Likewise, the musical score tries to underpin the uneasy feel of the
movie but only works to put the viewer to sleep with its two tone rise
and fall. None of the cinematography and shots of the scenes work to
create anything worth capturing attention. There are shots of Southie
that do convey the bleak outlook of Bulger's turf but they are few and
far between as the film mostly focuses on the boring and uninspired
dialogue and setting the actors are captured in such as living rooms,
offices, dark bars, and car interiors. 

If I was to summarize watching this film with an analogy I would
describe it as eating and tasting a cardboard box.
<|_=00=_|>
Black Mass is a crime drama movie revolving around the true events
behind the Winter Hill Gang and the gang's leader Whitey Bulger played
by Johnny Depp. The premise for the film was very interesting as it
played on Whitey Bulger's connections as his brother, William Bulger,
played by Benedict Cummberbatch is a Massachusetts State Senator while
one of his childhood friends John Connolly played by Joel Edgerton is
an FBI agent. This an amazing premise however it was not fully executed
as it focused mainly on Joel Edgerton's character and Cummberbatch's
character felt out of place at times. This may have been a more
realistic approach however I felt like they could have utilized
Cummberbatch's character more in the film as it would have added two
assets for Whitey. The Film is divided in three parts overlooking
Whitey's almost twenty year reign. However because of this approach it
leaves viewers wondering what happened in that time frame and feels as
if it was forced to make the movie feel more like the actually events,
so spread out. The cinematography and direction of the film is very
crisp and sleek which makes the film a lot more enjoyable. The acting
all together throughout the film is superb as it holds a stellar cast.
I found Johnny Depp, Joel Edgerton,Kevin Bacon and Benedict
Cummberbatch to be all great. Depp's performance was electrifying and
he should get an Oscar nod but I would not be surprised if he does not
get one.

Overall decent film

7/10
