
Kevin Kline creates the sort of character we haven't seen in a long
time, not since Clifton Webb, Noel Coward or even George Sanders, an
actor dares to step into the uncomfortable zone with so much wit and
panache. He is the reason to see the film and in my book, that's reason
enough. Paul Dano is wonderful but he projects a strange feeling. As if
he has been removed from the pot a bit too quickly. He doesn't look
quite done yet. Thoroughly undercooked. One has the overwhelming
feeling, he won't be able to survive in this world. The film, as film,
doesn't have the aspirations of Paul Schrader's "The Walker" nor its
darkness but if you're not put off by a slightly tentative direction,
you're in for a treat.
<|_=00=_|>
Jonathan Ames, a writer of eccentric novels, penned the book on which
this bizarre film is based. His story of confused identities and
searching for a workable concept of self was adapted for the screen by
Ames with help from co-directors Robert Pulcini and Shari Springer
Berman. It is a confusing tale to watch but has moments of comedic
insight and a cat of well- known actors that help to make the film
entertaining  if a bit of fluff.

We meet English teacher Louis Ives (Paul Dano) after a prelude of
daydreaming the three factors that characterize Louis - his obsession
with classic literature of the 1920s, his untrained perception of how
to relate to people ('awkward' would be a kind term), and his penchant
for fantasizing about cross dressing. He is dismissed from his school
'due to budget cuts' (read 'having been discovered trying on a bra and
being caught by the headmaster'), yet his inappropriate response is one
of glee at having been given the opportunity to move to Manhattan to
become a writer. 

Once in New York City without connections, he answers an ad for an
inexpensive apartment sharing  the ad having been submitted by one
very strange Henry Harrison (Kevin Kline), an older down on his heels
writer and playwright who supports himself teaching college level
literature and who considers himself an aristocrat, serving as an
'escort' for older wealthy women. After an uncomfortable interview
Henry consents to allow Louis to be his roommate: after weighing his
options Louis accepts the room in the flea infested filthy apartment
and begins trying to get to know the secretive and zany Henry.

Henry provides companionship for one Vivian (Marion Seldes) and
eventually Louis is brought in as an 'extra man' to provide
companionship for one of Vivian's friends (Celia Watson). In the
meantime Louis finds work as a telephone salesman for a Green magazine,
meets the pretty but unavailable Mary (Katie Holmes), begins to
encounter Henry's entourage of loonies such as Henry's bearded and
dirty repairman Gershon (John C. Reilly), and gives in to his urge to
learn about cross-dressing by visiting a 'teacher ' and finally a
make-over artist who places him in the role of a 'woman'. Louis'
experience with transvestism fails and alienates Henry  for a brief
time. But what this comedic episode results in is Louis' discovery of
what is important  friends and family  and Henry and his entourage
supply that and the changes this brings in all the characters draws the
film to a close.

With a cast such as this we find ourselves wanting to connect with each
character  bizarre though they all are  and to a degree this occurs.
But the script is spotty and the direction is bumpy and in many ways it
feels as though the film simply never gets off the ground. Good
moments: no after taste to savor. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
This movie actually took me by surprise.

First of all, let me start off by saying that the story is so
compelling and spellbinding that it will blow you away. There is just
something about this movie that is so unique in every way.

The characters in this movie are so fantastically unique, quirky and
lovable. It all just came together for a greater unity. The role of
Louis Ives (played by Paul Dano) was the quirkiest of all, struggling
to find his place in life, dealing with his sexuality and the
admiration of Henry and trying to find acceptance. And I must admit
that Paul Dano portrayed his character in a very good way; he was
awesome in this movie. And his resemblance to a young Liam Neeson is
just uncanny.

Moving on to the role of Henry Harrison (played by Kevin Kline), well
his role was eccentric and strict. But, as usual, Kline put on a
magnificent performance. He is very charismatic and have a good voice.
He is indeed one of the better actors of recent times.

And also, not forgetting, the strange character of Gershon Gruen
(played by John C. Reilly) was also very memorable and lovable,
especially his voice.

In all fairness, then this movie worked so good on all levels. However,
I think that a share of people might be put off by the movie, as it
does have that certain epic cinema moment to it, and also dealing with
(and I use this term in lack of better) sexually deviant behavior. For
me, I found that aspect of the movie to be one of the driving factors,
because it showed how Louis Ives was struggling to find himself and
dealing with his needs.

The movie is very beautiful in more than one way. The story is
beautiful, the cinematography is beautiful, the music is beautiful, and
so forth. This is one of the better movies I have seen in a while. It
is a fresh breath of change in the movie scene for me. Nice with a
movie that stands out from the mainstream comedies, and dares to be so
unique as it is.

If you haven't already seen "The Extra Man", then you owe it to
yourself to do so, especially if you are (like me) a lover of the
cinema and movies. This is a story that will stay with you for a long,
long time.

Thumbs up, way, way up from me!
<|_=00=_|>
Way too much will be given away if I attempt to describe the storyline.
Suffice it to say that even a total lack or overabundance of plot
wouldn't detract from its fascination quotient if you enjoy edginess
and the unexpected, A side of NYC life never before portrayed on
screen. How "real" does it feel? Totally besides the point with
direction and acting of the highest caliber. Some of the best tales are
stories you don't believe until after you've seen them played out;
reality isn't what it's cracked up to be where thoughtful playfulness
takes precedence. Despite the tag-line, there is indeed erotica at work
on screen, but sexuality is never depicted for its own sake. More
emotional than carnal knowledge gets exhibited here. Wonderfully
diverse soundtrack ranging from classical/opera to T-Rex and Velvet
Underground. Totally haunting film experience that's not a blockbuster
but needs to be seen by people who can appreciate "quirk." This film
should become a cult classic at the very least and a long-running topic
of conversation at cocktail parties. A "sleeper' in the best sense of
the term. If you see it and "get it," you will enjoy bonding with
others of like minds.
<|_=00=_|>
i saw this movie because I am a John C Reilly fan, however, much to my
chagrin, even with his minor role, this gave me many genuine deep "what
the f%$#" laughs. I also like Paul Dano and think he really played this
character well. His look of horror at his woman self was priceless,
especially when he had to dodge flying Christmas ornaments from harry. 

it was quirky yet boldly in-touch and the humor spoke to me. It was a
movie that I watched by myself on a lonely night and it certainly took
me out of my head.

this is the only movie I have ever watched that I was motivated to
write the review for.
<|_=00=_|>
An interesting movie, full of off beat laughs and phenomenal acting by
Kevin Kline and Paul Dano and John C. Reilly. Intellectually
stimulating, fun, and most importantly, different than the average
movie. Paul Dano is brilliantly cast as a young writer who has some
confusion about his sexuality and also feels he is meant to be in
another era. Kevin Kline is hilarious as an off beat character whose
political and social views are quite out of the ordinary. The movie
allows the audience to ponder, while not being overly ambiguous. The
scene at the beach when John C. Reilly sings and Kevin Kline teaches
Paul Dano to dance, is a keeper for my memory bank. "Get me off this
Godforsaken beach. I need alcohol and civilization".
<|_=00=_|>
Henry Harrison (Kevin Kline) is "The Extra Man", but to him, he's an
"essential man". He seems to live in a time and class that he doesn't
physically occupy. Louis Ives (Paul Dano) would really just like to be
a character in an F. Scott Fitzgerald novel. These characteristics were
so intriguing at the beginning of the film because there are a lot of
thoughtful and interesting directions to take it.

They make a great pairing, except for the fact that Henry isn't just
homophobic, but proudly and defiantly, extremely homophobic, and Louis
is proudly and completely confused. And neither of them understand the
nature of their friendship. When the film chooses to explore Louis'
inner transvestite and getting deeper into Henry's obsession as the
essential man, everything just gets weird.

"The Extra Man" is an extremely intelligent film. There was clearly a
lot of effort put into the writing, the characters, the acting and the
making of this film, but the weird directions it took were too much for
me. I want to recommend it to those who like smart, philosophical, but
weird, independent films. Just look out for some "sexually deviant
behaviour".
<|_=00=_|>
Great to see Kevin Kline in a witty role again. Cleverly written lines
give some snickers, excellent techniques at times transported me. The
physical slapstick was a little off, but the gags made up for it. If
you like Kevin Kline, you'll like this movie. Give it a try. It will
appeal to the astute mind. The rich old women are entertaining and the
glimpses of the other side of life are sensitively done, with tongue in
cheek. The metaphor of the pigeons is a clever one observed by Henry
(Kevin Kline) himself, in this high-brow yet Oscar Wildeish
thrust-and-parry into the world of the Henry and his protégé, the young
gentleman. Ending on a feel-good note with the credits rolling to a
zany variation of a Marc Bolan written T-Rex number 'Dandy in the
Underworld'. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I have not seen Kevin Kline as funny as he is here in "The Extra Man,"
since his Oscar winning "A Fish Called Wanda," I thought he would be
hysterical as Artemus Gordon in "The Wild Wild West," but I was
terribly mistaken. Kline redeems his comic traits in "The Extra Man,"
the character is zany, and eccentric, fully of mystery, and
entertaining stories. His young protégé is also entertaining, with
humor, and drama. I thought John C. Riley's performance was quite
hilarious, even if it is a small role. The 3 mens antics as a team are
funny as well as touching. I would definitely recommend this film be
seen. *****
<|_=00=_|>
a great ensemble of good story and cinematography, well established
characters, nice acting and well chosen soundtrack...I simply couldn't
find out why its not a masterpiece. But you'll certainly see something
'new'

Paul Dano is brilliant in his role as Louis Ives, the young gentleman
who struggles about his sexual identity and being born late to this
world... Kevin Kline is great in playing the eccentric landlord. 

The story is great but it has some flaws in the script, such an
original movie should have had some catchy, clever lines. there should
have been more references to Fitzgerald and James since the character
is a teacher of English literature and basically lives the life of a
gentleman of old times
