
Oh yes, this is a chick-flick. One that is a proper showcase to prove
Zac Efron has grown up to be a heck of a hunk! Also, you can never,
ever find anything to fault with any performance turned in by Blythe
Danner. She has been perfect in any role I've ever seen her in, this
one is no exception. I have to say that logic does step in and you
want, desperately, to say, "Oh for goodness sake, just do what you came
to do!" But if that should have happened, it would have ended up a
short movie, indeed. There is enough action, romance, gentle humor,
wonderful Louisiana scenery, good people, bad people, decent
story-line, fine acting.it's a pretty good movie. Nothing
earth-shattering or Oscar-worthy happens here, perhaps, but it's a film
I'd recommend and one I enjoyed watching.
<|_=00=_|>
There seems to be a consistent trend in the movies based on Nicholas
Sparks' romance novels. They all contain sappy clichés and a lack of
substance. There are two main elements that are repetitive in these
novels: the relationship between two soul mates and the sickness/death
of a loved one. From what I've heard, the books are exceptional,
however, the movies always fall short.

Logan (Zac Efron) is a marine who serves three tours in Iraq. During
the war, he happens to find a photograph of a beautiful girl and "keep
safe" is written on the back. Directly after he picks it up, there is
an explosion right where he had been standing before he found the
picture. Logan asks around, desperately trying to find whose picture it
is, but nobody claims it.

Now that he has the picture in his possession, he is invincible and his
luck in the treacherous circumstances of war is incredible. After
surviving his three tours, Logan is determined to find the girl in the
picture to personally thank her for the good luck she brought him. He
recognizes a tower in the picture and walks with his German shepherd,
Zeus, from Colorado all the way to Louisiana.

Of course, Logan and the woman, Beth (Taylor Schilling), fall deeply in
love, but struggle through the conflicts that arise. Sadly, most of
this movie is revealed in the trailer, which seems to happen quite
often these days.

Zac Efron does a decent job playing the character of Logan, however, he
just can't pull off the tough-guy look that is essential in this film.
He will always be remembered as Troy Bolton from "High School Musical".
In any case, this is a tear-jerking, cheesy movie that most teenage
girls would enjoy. It's not terrible, yet nothing special. I give "The
Lucky One" a 6 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This was the first Nicholas Sparks book I read and I loved it, so I had
high hopes for the movie. Like usual the movies are never as good as
the books are. For some reason they changed a lot of basic info. Like
location. Why change the state? Any way the love making scenes were
very good so if you are just going for the romance you won't be
disappointed. I think that Zack played Logan well. He had a depth that
I didn't expect as an actor even though he didn't have much to work
with. It wasn't my favorite movie but it wasn't that bad either. Maybe
if you didn't read the book first you might like it better. And for
those who haven't read it but liked the movie, you should read it. You
will love it.
<|_=00=_|>
In Iraq, the marine Sergeant Logan (Zac Efron) finds the photo of a
young woman with the message "Keep Safe X" on the back in the debris of
a construction and he keeps it in his pocket. His action saves his life
from a mortar fire and he believes that the girl is his guard angel
that protects him.

When he returns to Colorado, he has difficulties to adjust to the
civilian life with his sister's family and he decides to seek out the
woman. Logan researches the landscape and finds that the place is
Hamden, in Louisiana, and he walks with his dog Zeus to Hamden. 

He discovers that the woman is Beth Green (Taylor Schilling), who is
the owner of the Green Kennels with her grandmother Ellie (Blythe
Danner). When Logan meets Beth, he is unable to tell the reason why he
had traveled to Hamden. She assumes that he wants a job that she had
advertised and Ellis gives the job to Logan. Soon Logan befriends
Beth's son Ben (Riley Thomas Stewart) and becomes close to the family.
But her former husband, Sheriff Keith Clayton (Jay R. Ferguson) does
not want to make Logan's life easy.

"The Lucky One" is a sweet and dramatic romance, with pleasant
characters. The director Scott Hicks explores the beautiful landscapes
with a wonderful cinematography. The plot is very simple and
predictable, but the chemistry among Zac Efron, Taylor Schilling,
Blythe Danner and the boy Riley Thomas Stewart makes the film worth. My
vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Um Homem de Sorte" ("A Lucky Man")
<|_=00=_|>
This movie contains eye-candy (Zac Efron) and stunning scenery. It's
almost like the director is counting on that to rescue a very weak
script. This movie spent over and hour and a half trying to make us
"feel" the angst of the main characters but instead I kept wanting to
slap them into having some sense. I kept thinking that the actors
needed more lines and less music to tell the story. It was melodramatic
and entirely predictable. I do not recommend this movie in the theaters
unless you have money and time to throw away. 

I must add that I was impressed with Zac Efron's acting and also the
boy in the movie. I was surprised that Blythe Danner lent her talent to
such a weak vehicle but I'm sure there aren't many options for older
actresses in this day.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie on Memorial Day, and was reminded all over again
that freedom isn't free. So if you are a past or present member of any
branch of the US Armed Forces, or if your loved one has paid the
ultimate sacrifice with their life, fighting for our freedom, please
accept my heartfelt thanks.

I LOVED this movie. Everyone did an excellent job with their character
 especially with Logan. So much feeling and emotion in his expression
and actions, even when no words were needed. I felt like I could see
into his very soul. I saw a young man who still can hardly grasp the
fact that he has survived 3 tours of war in the middle east, when many
of his comrades didn't come home. You can sense the depth of emotion
and turmoil, and can easily understand why it was often hard to just
find words to express himself. You can see the military training and
discipline, the steel resolve to control his reactions, even when
harassed by the town bully/ex-husband. There's also loyalty, concern
for others, tenderness, selflessness, willingness to work hard  he's
the man of every woman's dream! 

It's easy to see that Beth is a survivor of an extremely abusive
marriage. Even though she's now divorced, she's still not free from the
abusive and controlling ex-husband. She's very careful in how she
responds or endures his abusive threats, in order to keep him from
going into a greater rage and I cheered for her when she finally found
the courage to speak up and take control of her own destiny. 

Keith, the ex-husband, is easy to despise, for his hateful, snarly,
manipulating character and yet in the end we saw a little glimpse of
good in his soul as well a little glimpse of what he might have been
if he'd only been willing to humble himself and get help much earlier. 

I loved the happy ending, I loved the story, and I very much
appreciated that the producers kept it clean. I can't wait for the DVD
 this is a keeper!!
<|_=00=_|>
As romantic dramas go, The Lucky One is pretty thin stuff. It has a
workable premise and everything, but the movie can't think of anything
to do with itself, so it pads out its running time with one musical
montage after another. You know a director has run out of ideas when he
puts two different montages in about a span of two minutes apart from
each other. The film is based on a book by Nicholas Sparks, who has
done much better (and worse) than this. This falls somewhere in the
middle.

Our hero is Logan, a Marine fighting overseas as the film begins, and
played with wooden indifference by Zac Efron. There's nothing
particularly interesting about Logan to begin with. He's handsome, he's
noble, he works hard, and that's about it when it comes to his
personality. Despite this, Efron could have shown a bit more life in
his performance. After a particularly intense battle, Logan spots a
photo of a woman lying in the rubble of the battlefield. Lucky thing he
found and walked over to that photo, as moments later, a bomb drops
where he was standing just seconds ago, killing his comrades. Logan
finishes his tour, but is obsessed with discovering who the woman in
the picture is, and who it belongs (or belonged) to. He returns home
briefly to Colorado to live with family for a while, but when he can't
readjust to civilian life, he packs his bags and, with his faithful dog
Zeus by his side, decides to walk cross country to search out who the
mysterious woman in the photo is.

His travels take him all the way to North Carolina, which is quite an
amazing feat to walk all that distance. What's even more amazing is how
Logan managed not to get dirty, or even mess up or grow out his hair
during those many long months of walking. He arrives at a farmhouse/dog
kennel, where it just so happens that the woman in the photo lives and
works there. She's Beth (Taylor Schilling), who works at the kennel, is
a single mother to her seven-year-old son, Ben (Riley Thomas Stewart),
and shares the home with her mother (Blythe Danner, who gives the most
interesting performance in the film). Logan means to tell Beth about
the photo he found that day, but he just can't bring himself to mention
it. Part of this is because of Logan having issues with his own past as
a soldier, and part of this is for plot convenience, so that the movie
can drag out his secret as long as it can, until it is dramatically
appropriate. He takes a job at the kennel, and becomes a natural taking
care of the many dogs.

He also starts building a bond with both Beth and her young son. She
starts sharing her private hopes and dreams with him, and little Ben
starts taking him to the old tree house where he hangs out, which is
accessible only by crossing a rickety old bridge over a raging river.
As soon as I saw that broken down old bridge, I knew it would collapse
at one point - most likely during the intense climax, and during a
storm. Sure enough, as the climax approached, those storm clouds
started rolling in, and all the central characters started heading for
that bridge. Logan also gets to meet Beth's ex-husband, Keith (Jay R.
Ferguson), who serves as the town Sheriff as well as the town bully.
He's a one dimensional villain who exists solely to push Logan and Beth
around, and threaten to take Ben away from them. As a villain, he
couldn't be any less subtle if he was wearing a T-shirt at all times
that had the words "HI! I'M A SLIMEBALL!" written on it.

The Lucky One is pretty standard stuff as these kind of films go - The
central romance between Logan and Beth is nice and all, but the
characters don't really have a lot of personality to go with their
physical attractiveness. You get the feeling that these two don't have
a lot to talk about when they're alone. The movie also has its share of
corny romantic lines, such as when Logan tells her, "You deserve to be
kissed every hour, every minute, every second of every day", or when he
says, "Finding that picture of you on the battlefield was like finding
an angel in Hell". Yes, the movie is gooey in its sentimentality, but
it never offends. I also enjoyed Blythe Danner's performance. She seems
to know what kind of a movie she's stuck in, and has a little fun with
it, delivering some much needed sarcasm and wit in her performance.
It's no wonder I found her the most interesting character, she's the
only one who gets to act like a real person.

The movie was directed by Scott Hicks (No Reservations), who's done
some films I've admired, but seems to be cashing a paycheck here. I
don't blame him for wanting to take it easy once in a while, but I wish
he had picked a more interesting script. I can't really picture The
Lucky One being a very memorable romantic weepie, but hey, I said the
same thing about The Vow, so what do I know?
<|_=00=_|>
Whoever The Lucky One was meant to be, it certainly wasn't me.

If you've read any of Nicholas Sparks' novels (I haven't) or suffered,
sorry, seen any of the film adaptations (Message in a Bottle, The
Notebook etc.) then you'll understand the formula: Woman in need of
love meets man but an obstacle (death, another woman/man etc.) bars
their way to rumpy pumpy and never-ending happiness but something will
occur (argument, misunderstanding, accident etc.) resulting in the
death or change of heart of the cause of the obstacle and the
opportunity for the heartthrob to prove his prowess and win the girl.

If that was a plot spoiler for you, you evidently didn't watch the
trailer (the entire film in 30 seconds  and better for it!) and
deserve only to watch such turgid, pox-ridden flicks as Extremely Loud
& Incredibly Close.

There are no surprises in The Lucky One other than how utterly
predictable the plot and outcome are and how thoroughly stereotypical
and two-dimensional the principal characters turn out to be. Oh, I
suppose I was marginally surprised at how a young man who essentially
stalks the sister of a dead soldier is able to turn that into a plus
point Scott Hicks, who deservedly won plaudits for Shine and then
ripped the hearts out of the adaptations for two superb novels (Snow
Falling on Cedars and Hearts in Atlantis), again directs with a
join-the-dots approach with similar results: Yes, you'll know what the
picture is supposed to be but you won't want to frame it and hang it
over the fireplace.

I don't dislike the film because it's a rom-com, I dislike it because
it's a really badly made rom-com. It's certainly no Notting Hill and
doesn't even reach the dizzy first-floor heights of Hicks' own The Boys
Are Back.

The presence of Blythe Danner should be a plus point (and trust me, we
need every plus point we can find in this offering), but she's been
written another predictably fanciable, quirky grandma role who is too
beautiful, too 'wise', too absolutely perfect to be realistic or
engaging. Zac Efron's heartthrob marine, Logan, is equally
unbelievable; a good-looking, almost perfect, animal-loving,
child-adoring, non-judgemental, placid, mechanic, painter, pianist who
just happens, let's not forget, to be an obsessive stalker!!! What's
lovable or dependable about that? Taylor Schilling is as bland as Beth,
as Jay R. Ferguson is paint-by-numbers bad as ex-husband/pantomime
villain. It's barely worth saying much more about them lest the venom I
spit corrodes my teeth on the way out.

Stuff happens. All the stuff you know is going to happen happens. The
holes are big enough to swallow entire ranches. Nothing is fully
thought out or explained, everything ties up neatly and you'll either
leave the cinema in love with the pastel world of Hollywood's
schmaltziest minds or you'll escape to the car park just about in time
to vomit on your shoes without ruining the carpet.

I need a new pair of Ted Bakers.
<|_=00=_|>
Really? The Lucky One? I'm the one who's lucky to have a fast forward
button. 

Lame. Its one of those "I'm dancing in the water and the sun is in my
hair and oooooh I look so happy while lovely music plays in the
background, I'm so carefree and joyful". Vomit.

A film made completely of "romantic" montages. Another film that has
basically no storyline, or a storyline so flat they try to jazz it up
with background music and hope that people won't notice. 

Boring, boring, boring. 

Oh how convenient for you that you knew the road to walk to her house,
how convenient you get a job there, how convenient she's wearing hot
pants.

Dull with a capital D.
<|_=00=_|>
Whenever there is a new adaptation of a Nicholas Sparks novel is
released, there's always a mass amount of haters and so be it because
some of them are extremely cheesy and bad, however I think that the
hate towards The Lucky One is unwarranted, I personally thought it was
a very enjoyable romantic drama. The Lucky One is quite different to
other Sparks movies, I found the storyline to be a lot more serious and
mature than normal, and the story being told from the male perspective
is also a nice change.

The acting from Zac Efron is top form, as he gets older his roles get
better and his acting improves with each movie, Taylor Schilling is
also nice, if not being a little too old for Efron, but she brings some
niceness to the character, and Blythe Danner is a bit of a scene
stealer in her small role.

Yes parts of this film are a little cliché, particularly towards the
end, but it's no biggie, the lack of chemistry between the two leads is
a bit annoying at first but soon it changes and gets better, even
though Taylor Schilling is nice in the role I do think that she is
miscast, I think Abbie Cornish may have suited the role a little more.
But even still the few flaws that this movie does have doesn't distract
from the overall niceness of the film.

Zefron is all man now and he is definitely an actor to watch. Fans of
the book will love it, Zac fans will love it too, generally a nice
romance to enjoy with friends.
