
Just ahead, I'll tell you how to know if you'll love or hate this movie
(very few will be in between). But first, I'm always surprised to see
people reading the novel, rushing to the movie, and then expressing
disappointment with remarks such as, "there are gaping holes." A 2-hour
movie is a 110-page screenplay, which means a 300-page novel becomes a
6-hour miniseries. Get Martin Scorcese, hire "Never Let Me Go" novelist
Kazuo Ishiguro to write the screenplay, and cast it right, and you'll
have a shot at making a miniseries that CAN be compared to the novel;
otherwise, let's understand the limitation and let the film stand on
its own. I didn't read Ishiguro's novel, and I found Mark Romanek's
film (screenplay by Alex Garland) to be a beautiful, profound and
complete meditation on life. It demonstrates the best and worst of
human behavior, the beauty of undying love, and the heroism of
accepting responsibility (or fate in this case). To me, the story is
uplifting and memorable, in spite of its overall sad and melancholy
tone. What's more, it's seamless, from the superb performances by Carey
Mulligan, Keira Knightley, and Andrew Garfield, to the near perfect
direction by Romanek, to its gorgeous cinematography with muted color
palette, to its precise wabi-sabi production design (the beauty of worn
and broken things). But how can you know if you'll like this film or
not?

Forget the Sci-Fi angle; it's insignificant except as a stepping-off
point for a story that reveals great truths: That life is short, your
choices have consequences, and at the end none of us may feel we've had
enough time to love, or just get things right. But I can safely say...
If you interpret your movies literally, you will not like this film. If
you need action, a fast pace, explosions and special effects, you will
not like this film. If your idea of a great movie is Inception, forget
it. 

On the other hand, if you can appreciate a fine story by Henry James,
Edith Wharton, or Katherine Anne Porter, this film is made for you. If
you enjoyed Todd Haynes' lovely melodrama, Far from Heaven, or Oren
Moverman's powerful movie, The Messenger, or Tom Ford's poignant film,
A Single Man, you'll love this picture. The story addresses themes of
love, longing, jealousy, betrayal, courage, atonement, and perhaps most
important "acceptance." The film also asks us to consider the "morality
of science," and some might find this aspect chilling, but to me the
larger human themes overwhelm this one. 

When I saw Never Let Me Go, the theater was about one-third full, but
probably one-third of these folks walked out by the half-way point.
And, surprisingly, the couple sitting behind me got up and walked out
10 minutes before the end, once they were convinced (revealed by their
groans) that the story would not have a happy ending. Apparently, they
were looking for the "feel good movie of the year." Sadly, they missed
the most extraordinary and beautiful ending -- most of the emotional
power comes in that last 10 minutes -- but then I suppose they wouldn't
have understood it. But to me, Never Let Me Go is the "feel good movie
of the year," precisely because it tells the truth: life is beautiful
because there are hopes and dreams, love and loss, tears and tragedies. 

One final note: Keira Knightley and Andrew Garfield are excellent in
their roles, but Carey Mulligan is the standout -- she shows a wisdom
and weariness far beyond her years, and handles difficult emotional
material with a sublime restraint that makes the whole thing work. I
feel we are witnessing the early work of the next Deborah Kerr, Sarah
Miles, or Vanessa Redgrave. 

This is an excellent film, one of the best of the year, and not to be
missed by those who appreciate depth and literary quality.
<|_=00=_|>
I just recently finished reading Never Let Me Go. I have very rarely
been so intrigued by the subject matter of a book and at the same time
so bored by its style. Never Let Me Go, the book, was deadly dull.
Still, I was so intrigued, as I say, by the plight of these characters,
that I was compelled to see how the book translated to the big screen.
You might say I felt this novel and original storyline deserved a
second chance.

All in all, I give the movie adaptation a thumbs up, with one big
caveat: I think those who did not read the book first would be left
scratching their heads. While the book was slow and plodding (and
devoted MUCH too much detail to certain occurrences in the storyline),
nevertheless it offered the opportunity for reflection on the
subtleties of what was taking place. Given the pacing of a typical
movie, if you blink, you might miss something momentous and I think
that was the case with this movie, so it certainly helped to have read
the book prior to seeing the film. The screenwriters did an excellent
job of condensing the book, and I felt, after having read it, that
condensing was precisely what this otherwise compelling and poignant
story required.

Never Let Me Go was a lyrical and visually beautiful production. The
accompanying musical score was appropriate to a sad and heartbreaking
story. The acting was terrific - especially by Cary Mulligan whose sad
eyes reveal the melancholy of her character, and Keira Knightly,
especially in the hospital scene where she portrays a nearly depleted
"donor." I didn't care much for the male lead, but his one outbreak of
emotion upon having his hopes of a "deferral" dashed was very
significant. And the character of Miss Lucy comes across as more
sympathetic in the movie than in the book.

My criterion for a good movie is this: If it stays with me once I hit
the sidewalk in front of the theater, rather than evaporating like
smoke, well, that's a good movie. Never Let Me Go has stayed with me.
The ending left me with a feeling that although these fictionalized
characters were little more than lab rats, we all, in a sense, share a
similar fate. Life is short, loss hurts, live and love while you can. 

It rarely happens that I enjoy a movie adaptation more than the book on
which it was based, but I would have to say that was the case here.
Bravo.
<|_=00=_|>
I had read the book and loved it. But this movie isn't for just anyone.
I went to the sneak preview last night and there are always people who
go to ANY movie because it's free -- those people hated this movie. My
rant is it is their responsibility to do a little homework about a
movie -- don't just go because it's free! That said...what a beautiful
film. The visuals are something you will remember, the acting is
superb, the cast (the kids as the young students and the older kids),
the horror of "the secret" and then the unveiling of the reason for
"hope" they cling to. One of the best reasons to see this movie is that
you will need to think about topics you have not ever grappled with
before. Your memories and opinions of this movie should be haunting and
unforgettable. It is not a happily-ever-after film and is quiet, slow,
and deep. The music is wonderful. Think of this as a foreign film and
go with that in mind.
<|_=00=_|>
"Never Let Me Go" is an interesting, haunting and affecting story of
love and jealousy. The story that we see occurring on the surface is
fairly commonplace of friends growing up together and falling in love.
But the backdrop of this film, which eventually takes over the main
story, is science fiction like. It's dark and tragic and
thought-provoking.

The world the film is set in is 1980s England and it looks very similar
to the real world. But it's not our world and I had a hard time fully
realizing all the characterizations for characters in a world that I
don't quite know and understand. But it's just such a well done film
that my interest was piqued and the story had me captivated, or at
least curious, from beginning to end.

The film was incredibly well shot, making dreary England look
spectacular but still getting the feeling of damp and cold across. It
was also really well cast. The kids playing the younger versions of
Keira Knightley, Carey Mulligan and Andrew Garfield looked and sounded
just like them and were able to carry the beginning of the film. As
others noted, Garfield also really stood out for me and his character
moved me.

I recommend "Never Let Me Go" because of the high quality of
film-making. The science fiction elements are rather subtle so it's
more for fans of romantic dramas, but it's an interesting enough film
that it can cross into most genres.
<|_=00=_|>
"Never Let Me Go" is one of the most distressing and depressing films
I've ever seen, so it's easy to imagine why this film, despite a wealth
of positive reviews, failed at the American box office so badly last
year. What people are missing, however, despite its grim subject matter
(including one of the most upsetting, yet profoundly moving endings
ever), is one of the most intelligent, thought-provoking, and
well-acted films in recent memory.

Music video director Mark Romanek has had a somewhat easy transition
into the way of feature filmmaking (he made his debut in 2002 with the
creepy Robin Williams thriller "One Hour Photo"), and "Never Let Me Go"
is easily the director's best work. Screenwriter Alex Garland adapted
Kazuo Ishiguro's novel of the same name, and the plot centers on three
life-long best friends who are also wrapped up in a love triangle.
Kathy (Carey Mulligan) loves Tommy (Andrew Garfield), but Tommy is
currently engaged in a loveless relationship with their mutual friend
Ruth (Keira Knightley, in what is easily her best and in my opinion,
most tolerable performance yet).

Their tangled love affair is set against the backdrop of a revisionist
history beginning in 1978 and ending in 1995, when the three are young
children being raised at a prestigious boarding school called Hailsham
somewhere on the English countryside. Over the course of their growing
up together, they gradually learn the horrifying truth about the school
and the grim significance of what their lives really mean in this
world, because, as they also discover, their predetermined lives on
this Earth will be short and they have very little time to understand
each other and what life and love really mean.

To really describe the plot any further will be a great disservice to
the true-to-life performances of this film's three daring young leads
and the filmmakers. "Never Let Me Go" is a daring combination of
heartfelt drama, romance, and dystopic science fiction. The latter film
genre serves only as a backdrop and never once does the picture descend
into pointless action scenes and special effects as a means for its
characters to try to escape their fates, or ultimately responsibilities
to the rest of humankind. (In fact, "Never Let Me Go" actually has more
in common with Rob Reiner's 1986 comedy-drama "Stand by Be" than
anything written by Philip K. Dick.) No, although these three
characters have accepted the inevitably of their incredibly short
lives, they are still determined to enjoy what time they have left
together and that is the whole point of this powerful and
emotionally-driven film.

Anyone who dismisses this film because of the negative reviews (yes,
there were a few) saying it's too bleak and depressing are selling
themselves short. They'd also be missing one of the most powerfully
acted and ultimately moving films I've ever seen. They'd also be
missing one of the greatest films of 2010, that's for sure, and that's
the real tragedy of "Never Let Me Go": that so many people ignored such
an incredibly great and brilliant film about life, love, and humanity.

Never Let This Film Go.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Mark Romanek's Never Let Me Go opens with a scene of a woman staring at
a man on an operating table. She stares at him through a glass wall and
he stares back at her, a tear streaming down his cheek. It is moments
like these that work so well in Never Let Me Go, a dystopian science
fiction drama that is both tender and frightening all at once.
Romanek's haunting imagery combined with some great acting acting
really make this film work as a great adaptation of Kazuo Ishiguro's
still greater book of the same title. While the pacing may be a bit
uneven, a moving story with a purposeful emotional disconnection holds
together quite nicely on the silver screen.

Without saying too much, Never Let Me Go is a story about what it truly
means to be humans. That does not mean that there are aliens involved,
but there are other science fiction elements that are subtly blended
with complex emotions. The story revolves around Ruth, Tommy, and
Kathy, three children growing up at a school called Hailsham. Hailsham
is bizarre in many ways, but the children simply take it as it is. The
children eventually learn a nasty secret about themselves from a
teacher. Ruth (Keira Knightley), Tommy (Andrew Garfield), and Kathy's
(Carey Mulligan) lives change forever as they suddenly learn to live
their lives differently. As they grow up together, they experience sex,
sadness, and love in unexpected ways.

Mark Romanek, who is probably better known for his work on music
videos, has made this film look sad and cold. The cinematography
fulfills the book's sense of depression through images of repetition.
One especially beautiful shot is the closing one in which two pieces of
cloth lie tethered, almost trapped, on a barbed wire fence blowing in
the wind. The film's beauty lies in its color palette, which leaves out
all primary colors. Romanek said in interviews that he borrowed the
color palette from the excellent 1968 British film If..., a fitting
place to borrow from for this movie.

The acting from all three main actors is very good. The performances
probably do not merit any Oscars, but they are still great to watch.
Carey Mulligan shines for a second time here, although her performance
is probably better in An Education. Andrew Garfield, a fairly new
actor, does well as Tommy, playing his character with all the strange
mannerisms that he had in the book. Look for Garfield in The Social
Network. He definitely will be one to keep an eye on. Keira Knightley
also is quite good as the conniving Ruth, although her performance is
nowhere near as good as those of Garfield and Mulligan.

The pacing of the movie was its biggest problem. The middle of the
movie inches along a bit too slowly, whereas the book moved at a
constantly brisk pace. Though the movie should and did spend a little
more time on character development, it spent a bit too much time and
could have easily lost fifteen minutes. The plot of the book has also
been presented out of order, with the major twist revealed a half hour
into the film. This will strange for anyone who read the book, for it
makes the character development very different.

Never Let Me Go is sad, depressing, and interesting in many ways.
Though it is not bound for Oscar gold, it is brilliant in its
quietness. It may not be enjoyed by people who have not read Ishiguro's
brilliant book, but fans of the book will certainly appreciate
Romanek's direction and the performances of Mulligan, Knightley, and
Garfield. If any movie could make you sad for hours, it would be this
one, so be prepared, and bring some tissues.

As Never Let Me Go shows, coming into a person's life can be even
harder than letting go.
<|_=00=_|>
I class myself as a rough and ready kind of guy, drinking and spending
time with the lads down the local....leaving any comment on IMDb is
something i DON'T do......but let me just say that this film (only
watched because i was bored waiting for the football) blew me away. The
cast and everything was perfect..... a touching and heart breaking
story. This film deserves as much attention as many of the blockbusters
that have been and gone. 

8 out of 10.....wow

I've been advised that my comments are too short so i must say more.
So, as i would like to recommend this film to everyone i will continue.
I don't want to mention much about the story as i feel its best
watching knowing as little as poss....the characters will shine out and
hopefully engross you....its not full of action etc but boy.....it will
pack a punch. To be honest, it makes me feel more appreciative of my
family and friends and what little time we have we them
<|_=00=_|>
I seriously feel as if a chunk of my brain fell off after watching this
movie. I believe it is due to how stupid the screenplay writer and
director think the viewers are (or they themselves might not be that
bright....who knows)

What's worse is to open IMDb and see some people raving about how great
this movie is and how this makes you think the whole time. Yeah I think
how long will this crap go on. And how stupid can these characters be.

We are to believe that after they learn their fate, their attempt to
avoid it is just by asking for deferral?? And that when told there is
no such thing they just scream in the middle of a street? A little
study of Biology (I believe during my Junior High) mentioned that our
survival instinct part of brain is the first to develop and the one
that kicks in whenever we face problems. It's a field of study that I
will suggest for the writers and director of this movie.

There is one scene so memorable in the movie (which is probably when
the screenwriter wrote right after he got his lobotomy done). It's when
they finished the 3rd organ harvesting of Ruth and she died. The
doctors just pack up and left the room (instead of trying to revive her
as what would happen in normal world) they tried to portray a message
that these people are just like cattle and their life is just for the
organs, but if that's true, won't they straight away try to harvest all
other organs that can't be harvested without the person dying? (heart,
lungs, corneas) we all, at least those with brain still know that those
organs need to be harvested as fast as possible.

Sure the scenery is beautiful and the acting is pretty good and there
is the yada and the blah blah like other reviewers said. But if you're
looking for a movie that your brain can remotely comprehend (I'm
talking to those that have basic education) then Never Pick This piece
of steaming horse crap up.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of the book I had a mixed reaction to this adequate yet
overall uninspiring adaptation of Kazuo Ishiguro's brilliant novel. 

Looking back at my viewing experience I was reminded of the early
adaptation of 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' from the earliest era of films, in
which the filmmakers expected you to have read the book and simply
showed you interpretations of various scenes. 

Alex Garland's screenplay boasted the ambition of including a little
bit of everything from Ishiguro's 300 page book in his slightly under
two hour movie. The result is a simple abridgment, we have time to
realize the love brewing between the characters, the strained
friendship between Mulligan's Kathy and Knightley's Ruth, and the
dilemma of their caregivers at Hailsham. But the film lacks much the
catharsis and the commentary that made the book so great.

Romanek has proved himself to be a capable director, but here he made
some negative decisions which really removed much of the impact of the
plot. Adam Kimmel's cinematography is a stand out here, and given the
competition so far I wouldn't be surprised if he receives an Oscar
nomination for his work. 

The calm collection and stoic nature of much of the acting can be seen
as insipid or uninteresting to some. But I found the acting to be quite
appropriate, the tight lipped, proper British style of this movie
provided an nice contrast and balance to a story which could have
turned into a mindless melodramatic tear jerker if not handled
correctly.

In the end, I think active viewer-ship is of paramount importance to
this movie. The film is never interested in simply handing the audience
its ideas. Rather it called upon us to dig for meaning. I would say the
plot itself served as a bit of a metaphor, and that intrigued me. And,
despite some of the negative artistic liberties which were taken in
this adaptation, I feel that it did well enough to create an involving,
though provoking, and sometimes heartbreaking experience.

Despite its flaws, 'Never Let Me Go' has been one of the few strong
film that we've had this year. And, if your one of those people who
goes to the movies once or twice a month, I'd say 'Never Let Me Go' is
one of your better bets for an agreeable experience at the movies right
now.
<|_=00=_|>
I was in awe of the visual overtones in this gorgeously made film.
Deep, subtle, beautiful and cryptic--"Never Let Me Go" is sure to
instigate profound conversations after the screening. Like "Dead Man
Walking" (1995) and "Million Dollar Baby" (2004) there's a social
morale buried under this sumptuous love story.

The film follows the friendship of three children growing up in a
tightly-secured boarding school in Britain, beginning in 1978. They are
cutoff from the outside world; a life without a choice, but a life with
a designated focus. The story spans almost three decades, following
them from childhood to adulthood. The surroundings are ever constant,
even though the film follows them for three decades.

I would love to reveal what these special individuals are modeled and
raised for, but giving away that revelation wouldn't be fair to the
viewers. I must say, it's a very unique premise; one that gives the
audience a very improbable connection between images and content.
"Never Let Me Go" struck a nerve. I felt for these characters, very
deeply. I wanted them to realize what these young and loving
individuals could've achieved in the world they grew up in. They were
brainwashed into thinking they were isolated from everyone else, but in
reality, there were no boundaries. They could've escaped from the life
they were brought-up in and should've rebelled from the establishment.
Angry, sad, sweet, longing, optimisticI love it when a film channels
these ambivalent emotions and allows me to ponder about an alternate
direction for the characters to venture into. If a film does that, then
it must work.

After viewing this movie, I'm very curious about picking up the novel
to see how the filmmakers translated the descriptions into these
picturesque images. My guess is that the book is written on the same
lines as "The Horse Whisperer"with deft metaphors and rich
characterizations.

As much as I wanted closure to the narrative, I think the film does a
great justice by leaving the audience in the dark. It gives the viewer
more room to think, and it stimulates an array of intelligent
inquiries. "Never Let Me Go" dares the viewer to look beyond the
beautiful imagery and delicate character interrelationships, and
discover a multitude of hidden meanings and themes. Above all, this is
an exquisitely crafted tale about love, loss, individuality, and the
boundaries of life.
