
Me and my wife took our 3 kids to this one, we wanted to enjoy a nice
Saturday afternoon together watching a cute family flick, and this
movie delivered what we were expecting. our kids laughed and had a lot
of fun, and i found myself enjoying most parts of it.

Story is very familiar, about a business man " Carrey " who is always
busy and away from his kids, then suddenly he inherits penguins that
changes him and his life,..i guess you sort of know from here where the
story is headed. a very simple, and might sound silly story, but
executed in a very good manner, that made it better than your average
family movie. Carrey was funny as always, and added a lot to the over
all enjoyment of the film.

It is a family movie, starring Jim Carrey with penguins and is rated
PG, what really are you expecting ? it is exactly what you would expect
from this type of film. Just grab your loved ones, head to the
theaters, and enjoy this movie for what it is, don't take it seriously,
and you will have a great time !!
<|_=00=_|>
Before I begin, let me say this: I like Jim Carrey. I really do. In
fact, I watched Ace Ventura: Pet Detective back when I was a kid, and I
still find it funny today. But, as with most actors and comedians,
there is that little thing called shtick. Don't we all see a pattern
when we see those familiar faces on the screen? In fact, it seems to
generate the same kind of reaction: We become endeared to it at first,
but then it gets real by the time the fourth or fifth movie rolls
around. Will Ferrel, Adam Sandler and even Carey himself, are all the
biggest 'offenders,' so to speak, in this day and age. But, for the
sake of this interview, let's focus on the latter, and how this movie
relates to his 'shtick.' The movie in question, if it wasn't obvious
already, is Carey's latest venture, Mr. Popper's Penguins. Based
looselythe key word being 'loosely'on the 1938 novel by Richard and
Florence Atwater, "Penguins" tells the story of a work-obsessed
businessman named Tom Popper, whose life is turned upside down when he
inherits six penguins from his late explorer father. As is wont, his
cold heart begins to melt by means of the flightless, cold-loving
birds. In the meanwhile, he tries to evade suspicions of his bosses, a
respected entrepreneur, and a brown-nosing zoo keeper while also
rekindling his relationship with his estranged ex-wife and kids. And,
yes, that's the plot in a nutshell. But, does that mean it's as
mind-numbing as it sounds? No, my friends. It's not as bad as it seems.

First off, let's get the downside out of the way. The plot is
thoroughly and shamelessly predictable. It is riddled with so many
clichés, that I could sit there, predict every turn the movie was going
to take and be right. Also, I sat there and counted sixyes, sixpoop
or fart jokes. There may have been a couple that I missed during a
bathroom break, but I'm sure there were a couple more that I could have
counted. I blush to admit it, but I do laugh at potty humor, but only
when I don't expect it or it makes the movie actually funny. Again,
predictability killed the mood for me.

However, for all its faults, it's more charming than repulsive. Carrey,
though he is relying on his standard, over the top shtick, is not
overshadowing those adorable penguins. But, aside from Carrey, his six
co-stars, and his estranged family, there are two saving graces for
this movie. Mr. Popper's secretary, Pippi (played by British actress
Ophelia Lovibond) is a prim little poppet with a penchant for
alliterating all her sentences with any and every word beginning with
the letter P. She does grate a little bit, but she is still quite
adorable. The other actress to show her face here is the great Angela
Lansbury, who plays the owner of a restaurant that Popper used to eat
at with his late father. It is so refreshing to see this woman on the
silver screen again, especially for a girl who grew up with the likes
of Beauty and the Beast and Bedknobs and Broomsticks (There's
alliteration there, too, eh? Oh, darn this movie!). She still retains
that grace and charm through all the forced dialogue and situations,
and I applaud her for that.

Overall, my feelings for this movie can best be summed up by its
summary on RottenTomatoes.com: "Bland, inoffensive, and thoroughly
predictable, Mr. Popper's Penguins could have been worsebut it should
have been better." But for all its faults, its charming, fun and
completely harmless. It's probably best for kids, but animal lovers
will love the cuddly penguins, and Carrey fans will like seeing their
idol on screen. Give it a shot and decide for yourselves.
<|_=00=_|>
We go to movies as a family  my wife and I with our two children, nine
and six years old. We are looking for family fare that Mom and Dad can
at least abide. It's not easy.

Mr. Popper's Penguins, though, filled the bill nicely. It's a tad
formulaic. For instance, early on we see a boy neglected by his Dad via
flashbacks showing the boy waiting for his Dad to call via the ham
radio from some far off outpost. We never really see the dad. The movie
formula requires that the boy grow up to neglect his own kids, and sure
enough the formula is followed. In the end, so goes the formula, comes
a resolution.

I understand that adherence to that formula provides a sense of comfort
and familiarity to children such as mine  I have no problem with that.
Kids that age do not need to be challenged by a movie, just
entertained.

So this movie entertains. Your kids will laugh  my kids did, and I
laughed and my wife laughed. There were no concerns with off-color
material. It was good clean fun, the best kind.

I saw the movie tonight at a screening, and I would not be surprised if
the movie gets savaged by the critics, who tend to have contempt for
any movie formula. My advice, if you've got young kids, or even if you
have a date who enjoys a good laugh, is to go and see the movie and
have a nice time.
<|_=00=_|>
On Saturday, I had the honor of attending an advanced screening of Mr.
Popper's Penguins. Now I have never read the book in my life, but I am
aware that the film is an extremely loose, contemporary adaptation with
a setting in the present day rather than the 1930s in the book. So if
you're a die-hard fan of the classic book, avoid this movie because
they made so many changes to this new setting, it's insane. I am a Jim
Carrey fan as well, which was the main reason I went to this film, but
don't kill me for saying that I still have not seen Liar Liar, Ace
Ventura, and The Mask yet. But those three are still on my watch list,
though.

Jim Carrey plays Tom Popper, a successful New York City businessman who
has put almost all of his life into his work life instead of family.
One day he gets a phone call saying that his father has died, but he
left him a gift behind. That gift is six gentoo penguins, and these
penguins are going to help him realize that he has shunned out almost
every opportunity he's had in life to appreciate the beauty you can
experience if you take the time to do so. Once the penguins are brought
into the public eye, though, Popper has to contend with a stern zoo
keeper (Clark Gregg) who wants the penguins because he believes that
Popper's house is not well-suited to take care of all of them.

Jim Carrey definitely carries this movie and saves it from being a
complete disaster. His physical slapstick that has become well known in
almost his whole career translates in a good enough manner to provide
so decent moments of comedy. He may be very grounded in his limits for
what he can and can't do, but watching Carrey go crazy on screen is
always good enough for me. The supporting cast's performances are
really nothing special, but it was pretty cool to see Clark Gregg go on
the villain side for once, when he's not playing SHIELD Agent Phil
Coulson in the MARVEL films building up to The Avengers. However, the
penguins I believe are the weakest part of the film. The jokes
involving the penguins are heavily centered on young children and
parents who like to see their kids laugh. I'm 17 so I thought most of
the jokes were very juvenile at some times, especially a running joke
they carry on with one of the penguins who goes by the name of Stinky.
In addition, you'll be able to tell in every scene involving the
penguins when they're real or CGI, especially in the final climactic
sequence of the film.

Overall, if you've seen the trailers to this film, you pretty much know
what you're going to get out it. This movie could have been a Razzie
nominee in several categories, but Jim Carrey is there to save it from
going in that direction. I can say that I mildly enjoyed most of this
movie, but I'll probably forget sometime this week.
<|_=00=_|>
Mr Popper's Penguins is a good movie with a reasonably well developed
storyline and a talented cast. It's an enjoyable family film that had
many funny moments and is also quite sweet, it easily could have been a
disaster, but I think Jim Carrey did a great job of making it
watchable, he may have only done this for a pay check but he looked
like he was having fun and really became this character. However, It
certainly has many flaws, it throws far too much conflict and issues at
Mr. Popper, a divorce, a difficult job and kids who hate him, they
seemed like too much problems to give its audience for a ninety minute
film, and adding the penguins didn't feel as significant because of the
real life struggles that faced him. I found Ophelia Lovibond's
performance unbearable, Pippi was a very annoying character, her
constant use of words beginning with p wasn't funny to begin with, and
they just kept it coming. It has its flaws, but Mr. Popper's Penguins
is still a fun film that I would recommend to a family if you ever see
it on television and have some time to kill. 

Mr Popper gets sent six penguins, which makes the man's life a lot more
difficult, although he starts to grow fond of them when he discovers
the joy it brings his children.
<|_=00=_|>
On our way to an "adult" film (the theater turned out to be
inaccessible), we ended up at "Mr. Popper's Penguins," which my friend
remembered as a book that her now-29-year-old daughter had enjoyed. I
can't remember an evening of more unadulterated, good-hearted laughs in
ages. 

Viewers should be cautioned to abandon any need for verisimilitude.
This is not "March of the Penguin," although Jim Carrey does reference
Morgan Freeman in one line. The human children, however, are
delightfully true-to-life, in their enthusiasms and frustrations. The
penguins, however, manage to exhibit a charming mixture of human-child
mischief appropriate to their penguin natures -- sliding on any
slippery surface, splashing wherever possible, finding refuge in any
icy habitat available in a Manhattan apartment.

The dialogue is very well written and well paced. Jim Carrey is at his
best -- annoyingly over- the-top as a slick sales executive, genuinely
bonding with his surrogate children as time goes on -- a virtual "Marty
Poppins." Angela Lansbury displays her mastery of her craft as a
wealthy dowager quite unlike the charming "Jessica Fletcher" persona.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the trailer for this movie, I've finally got the chance to
see it today at the 1:30 premiere in AMC Theaters. I'll write the plot
before I make my opinion.

It revolves around Tom Popper (Jim Carrey), a businessman who spends
most of his time with his life instead of his family. One day, after
his father dies, he receives a crate which contains all six penguins
who then turns his life upside-down. Learning that he has to love them,
he does whatever he can to take care of them at any costs.

To those who read the book, I've read the book as well, but this movie
is loosely based on the book and I've got my opinion to prove it.

The only problem that I had with this movie was the storyline's pacing.
It was so rushed while everything else in this movie turned out great.
The casting was brilliant and even Jim Carrey, Angelina Lansbury and
Jeffrey Tambor did great at their performances. The jokes were very
funny I laughed at every single one of them. The development was
organized and well built together. That's all I gotta say.

Mr. Popper's Penguin's lacks in any depth, but it is a great comedy
film and little kids and their parents should watch this so they could
laugh their butts off for a few minutes.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Loosely based on the 1938 novel of the same name by Richard and
Florence Atwater, this is a family movie that does not ask to be taken
seriously.

As a kid, Popper never really knew his father, an explorer who was
always away on some adventure or another. As an adult, he is a
successful New York realtor, but divorced and lives away from his two
kids. Mr. Popper's (Jim Carrey) latest assignment is to acquire a
landmark restaurant owned by entrepreneur Selma Van Gundy (Angela
Lansbury). Despite Popper's gift of the gab, Van Gundy will not sell
the "Tavern on the Green" unless the buyer is a person of true value.
After a not so convincing attempt at buying the tavern, Popper receives
a strange inheritance from his late father half a dozen penguins. At
first Popper is annoyed and irritated with these frosty creatures but
they start to grow on him. His children then fall in love with the
penguins and soon enough, he starts to date his ex-wife (Carla Gugino)
again. Soon enough, Popper converts his plush New York condo into a
winter wonderland to accommodate his winged friends; much to the dismay
of his neighbors and a pesky animal protection zoologist. Eventually,
Popper is on the verge of getting his family back but his bosses fire
him for ignoring his job. Popper must now decide between being a
lovable family man or revert back to being a cold business man that he
was.

Adults will find this movie filled with predictable moments, some of
which are cliché ridden. Still, there is a lot of charm and feel-good
moments if viewed as a family movie. Kids will find the penguins
adorable, funny and mischievous, all at the same time. Having said
that, there are few recurring jokes for adults as well, only thing is
they are more potty than witty. Jim Carrey fans will find his
rubber-face moments dwindled down to barely a handful of scenes.
Although Carrey still has it in him, it is evidently clear that his
on-screen magic has diminished over the years since "Ace Ventura: Pet
Detective". As a woman caught between dating her ex-husband and a new
prospect, Gugino's scenes are subtle but do not really add as much in
terms of comic moments. There is however, a bit of feisty raunchiness
in her eyes, and if this was manifested into deeds it would have really
added an extra depth to the movie. As a guest appearance, I was
delighted to see Ms Lansbury in this movie. Most noted as a TV icon in
"Murder She Wrote", Lansbury's addition to the casting is well placed
in a role as the regale New York entrepreneur. They could have added
anyone from Glenn Close to Meryl Streep, but Lansbury is perfectly cast
and commands respect in the very few scenes she appears in. Another
standout appearance comes from the lovely Ophelia Lovibond as Popper's
personal assistant, Ms Peppy. If you think the title of the movie is a
bit of a tongue twister, wait till you hear Peppy; a person with
precise paranoia in punctuating phrases with ample amounts of Ps.
Pretty perky! With just ten titles to his credit, this is a decent
effort from director Mark Waters. Although a far cry from "Happy Feet",
Waters' depiction of six cute penguins, albeit CGI assisted, adds
amusement and heart felt warmth to scenes of icy New York. As a result,
this is a pleasant movie for families with young kids and is a
preferred alternative to a trip to the zoo.
<|_=00=_|>
Jim Carrey's career has in many ways mirrored that of Eddie Murphy. In
their early days, both had distinctive styles of their own  Murphy was
fast-talking, foul-mouthed, vulgar and very funny; Carrey was a manic
and energetic physical comedian like one of the Three Stooges on
steroids. They were both at their best in those early years. Their
comedy was effective and the films they made were usually enjoyable and
funny. Then, for reasons best known to themselves, both men settled for
a niche in that most insipid and cloying of genres  the mainstream
Hollywood family comedy. From time to time, both men escape from the
constraints of this self-imposed exile  check out Murphy in Bowfinger,
for example, or Carrey in The Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind 
and we get a wonderful reminder of what they're capable of. But all too
often, both men slip back into "Hollywood Family Comedy Hell", where
their talents are wasted on cinematic silliness like Mr Popper's
Penguins. This Jim Carrey vehicle is lame and predictable for its
duration, pandering solely for children below the age of 10.

Tom Popper (Jim Carrey) is a successful businessman who treats everyone
around him with frosty disregard. As a child, he was neglected by his
father who spent most of his time gallivanting around the world in
search of animals. As an adult, Popper now treats his own kids 
daughter Janie (Madeline Carroll) and son Billy (Maxwell Perry Cotton)
 with the same dismissive indifference. One day he receives word that
his father has died in some God-forsaken corner of the world, and
shortly afterwards Popper inherits a number of penguins. Initially he
wants to be rid of them but soon he discovers that he actually cares
for the penguins, loves them even, and before long he finds himself
becoming a better person thanks to the effect the penguins have on his
life. His relationship with his kids grows, and he even starts to
rekindle a romance with his ex-wife Amanda (Carla Gugino). But as
always things don't run smoothly, and Popper ends up having to save his
penguins from a nasty zoo-keeper while keeping alive a precious
business deal with cranky old heiress Mrs Van Gundy (Angela Lansbury). 

This isn't hugely different from Carrey's earlier offering Liar, Liar.
Once again, a single-minded and neglectful father gets a shot at saving
his marriage and rebuilding his relationship with his kids thanks to
extraordinary circumstances. But where that film had a degree of manic
energy, this one merely offers sentimental schmaltz. Mr. Popper's
Penguins is not a total loss by any means, with some amusing moments
and good special effects. It's just that the film doesn't really hang
together as a whole, alternating too often between the disappointingly
predictable and the excessively juvenile. In fact, the penguins have
all the best moments  if it wasn't for them, this would be a very long
94 minutes indeed.
<|_=00=_|>
It is not awesome but it is a good comedy movie, we enjoyed it..

As always Jim Carrey's performance is very good in this movie..

The penguins are so cute..

I want to have them in my house :) Honestly we couldn't understand
these penguins real or not..

Actually we read that -Jim Carrey said the penguins are real- ..

But still we cant believe that, it is amazing..

The animal cant act professionally like that.

If you watch this movie you wont be bored and I think you will enjoy
it...
