
Journey 2: The Mysterious Island is the 'sequel' of Journey to the
Centre of Earth (starring Brendan Fraser). Actually, I really don't
know why they consider it a sequel because the story is completely
different  the only similarities are the author of the books in which
the films were based on (Jules Verne) and the character of Sean
Anderson that appears in both movies. I also found interesting that
many people didn't know it was related to the other movie.

What we have here is a film that follows the same scheme of its
predecessor  a lot of CGI and 3D effects, amazing and colorful
scenarios, silly humor and nothing more. Journey 2 is a movie for all
ages - specially the kids - so don't expect violent sequences or sex
scenes with your favorite stars. 

The plot is traditional and there is obviously those parallel stories -
like the boy Sean(Josh Hutcherson) who falls in love with the charming
Khailani (Vanessa Hudgens) and his relationship with his mother's
boyfriend, Hank  played by Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson who shows us that
the 'tough guys' can also be funny, charismatic and do movies that they
don't have to kill a hundred people. 

So, are you thinking about taking your kids to the movies? Well, take
them to watch Journey 2: The Mysterious Island - they will be thrilled
by it.

But, even if you don't have any kids, watch it. Who said that adults
have only to watch serious and artistic movies? Sometimes a little bit
of unpretentious fun is necessary in life - and this movie provides it
(at least for me it did).
<|_=00=_|>
This movie lacks what it takes to take an Oscar Award, lacks the
sensitivity and depth....blah blah blah, forget all that noise...go see
the movie with your kids they would love it.

This movie is for Kids, and parents who have kids. I took my daughter
to see it today in 3D. Excellent visual effects, entire movie had
effects, you did not take your glasses off at all or you'd miss the
next 3d effect that is right around the corner. The cast was good, The
Rock was great and jokes were funny, this movie was child safe and had
everything that your young one would want, lots of effects, action,
above and underwater. I would definitely recommend it in 3D. The pace
of movie is fast and if you have kids ....you can appreciate this.

I rated this movie for what it is...a kids movie. Are you going to
leave the theater discussing the virtues of Plato? NO! but your kids
will be going on about this and that in the movie. Worth Admission?
Absolutely. Asked my daughter what she rated it....9.5 she said. Was it
worth it? When your child says 9.5 what the heck else matters?????
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot begin to describe the levels of wrong and awfulness for this
movie. I'll just bring it down to this:

I don't know what was worse. The story, the acting, or The Rock playing
the ukulele. 

The lines, the mimics, the situations, even the humor (which was
supposed to be funny... don't know how yet.. ) looked, sounded and felt
like plastic bags. They all felt so unnatural, and out of character. I
can't yell at mister Wrestler.. he did his best for what he can do. But
Vanessa, honey, you have a Disney background, you should be good at
this stuff... it's a kids movie.. good acting = good movie. Having a
red wet shirt on you throughout the scenes, that's not really
appropriate. 

The story is... well there isn't much of a story... only that 3
different people, wrote about the same island, and encrypted its map
and location in their books. The island (Atlantis) runs by a 'tectonic
plate clock cycle', diving in the ocean and resurfacing every X amount
of years. However, if the island was destroyed each time it went under
the ocean, how did it rebuild itself? Answer : A wizard did it... 

I wonder how they didn't get sued for using 'Yoda' which is a LucasArts
trademark. I also wonder why did they try to build The Rock's character
into a muscled 'MacGuyver' and a Wizard, and a Scientist, and an ex
Navy Seal, and a Wise Man ... and .. must I go on? 

Also, the kid, is so dumb... that a chick has to drop the curtain and
tell him : "Oh gee.. stop whining like an 8 year old.. for having a
step dad who cares about you.. wouldn't it be worse if you didn't had
him at all???". For being that stupid, you deserve to sink and die with
the damn island, and maybe you'd get reconstructed each 140 years like
the island does.. Yes sir..

The only good thing about this movie, is the CGI, which was well done,
no argument there. 

And one more thing. I laughed so hard at this. I imagined there would
be something like this in the movie (adding up to Vanessa's red wet
shirt). A kids movie = parents are there too. So how to keep them awake
or not drunk in the theater (also entertained would be a much suitable
word)? Yes, you got that right.. Vanessa's buttocks: Central Framed,
HD, 3D go watch it now (during the escape from Nemo's burial room).

Overall: probably good for kids, probably good for drunk adults, most
likely awful to everyone that noticed how the movie industry is on a
downfall, and how each year it gets worse.
<|_=00=_|>
"Journey 2: The Mysterious Island" is a blue-screen CGI extravaganza
that is mixed in with the picturesque Hawaii locations, but containing
a plot that is essentially all told in the trailer and presented with
the dynamics of an amusement park tour. The "2" in "Journey 2" is
because it is the sequel to the 2008 movie "Journey to the Center of
the Earth"; the "The Mysterious Island" in the title because both
movies are both derived from books by Jules Verne. 

Watching "Journey 2" is like being stuck in a vacation with five
slightly unpleasant people with slightly uncomfortable dynamics
between. Sean (Hutcherson) is bratty and overly entitled, Hank
(Johnson) his stepfather and Alexander (Caine) his grandfather are
constantly bickering, the tour guide Gabato (Guzman) is overly
emasculated and his daughter Kailani (Hudgens) surly. 

The 3D, the CGI of the island and the sets are perhaps main draw of the
movie. We see elephants as big as cats and bees as big as cars. The
effects are mostly impressive all around but it never manages to find
the right pace or impact because it just comes in one after another
without the dramatic tension. It's hard to care about the perils or be
in awe at what's shown when the characters are so thin.

After watching the movie, I get this feeling that the Rock had way too
much creative input in the movie. His absurd peck joke from the trailer
aside, his character is a prize-winning Navy cryptographer who also
knows structural engineering and who can also play a mean ukulele and
really hold down a tune (although awful singing truth be told); This
all hints at the big guy pretending to be smart and sensitive. Combine
this with the almost palpable resentment between him and Caine and the
sickening obsequiousness of Guzman towards him, it just feels
uncomfortable.

While the movie is impressive as a 3D CGI set piece, it is severely let
down by the characters. A lot of kids/family movies lately have this
undertone of spoiled rich American kid gets everything he wants but
this movie does this in a very ugly way. Kids will overlook all these
flaws in the movie and be mesmerized by the 3D and special effects but
I think adults would find it a bit pointless and uncomfortable. Empty
entertainment for kids is my view of this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the trailers, I looked forward to this movie. But although
I am a fan of Dwayne Johnson, I cannot recommend this movie to much of
anyone. It moves too quickly at the beginning. The premise is
interesting but completely implausible, especially the time frame. Some
of the scenery is enjoyable but fleeting. Michael Caine's character is
entirely too negative. The special effects were not very realistic
either. The plot was designed to be a dramatic thriller but it was so
pat it was boring. I almost left before the ending as there was no
mystery left shortly into the film. Also, the two young people were
rather lackluster and the pilot was annoying. For something that held
so much promise of a lovely adventure, it was a big disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
I cant spoil the story as there is barely any to find.

The only one/s who truly earned any coin in this movie are the people 
who did the trailer, because they managed to put together a clip from 
the none existent content of the film.

Suffice to say, I can bet you the 80 million dollars to that took to 
make this film that first graders and/or some random drunken people in 
a bar can come with a better screen play.

Its so bad that you can see everyone of the actors in the film can not 
believe they are actually going through with this scene after scene.

Its so excessively dull that I wouldn't even want my children to see 
it.

The ONLY thing you can do to make this film bare-able is to turn of the 
audio and watch it as a mute film. Anything you could imagine about the 
dialog would be better.

I'm only giving it a 3 because believe it or not I've seen worse ( : 
And CGI? Maybe we could have enjoyed the CGI if it wasn't crushingly 
burdened with carrying the dumbest dialog I've seen in years.

I'm only wasting my key taps on this "film" on the off chance that this 
will save someone the waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
I was already less than impressed by the trailer, and when I saw the
film my suspicions about the stale plot and characters where confirmed
in full.

We begin with the routinely angsty teenage boy with the novel hobby,
his conventionally careworn mother and his try-hard stepfather who
"Just wants to be friends." Along the way we encounter many overused
plot points, gags and characters. 

There's the eccentric old man with a taste for cheesy catchphrases, the
chubby simpleton who's only role is to inject some half rate comedy,
the "breathtaking" jungle island full of dangerous beasts and beautiful
creatures, and the pretty girl with the very low cut tank top who will
at some point be put in mortal peril in order for the afore mentioned
angsty teenage boy to prove himself worthy in the art of rescuing the
damsel.

The plot was recycled, the acting was OK at best, and the dialogue had
me rolling my eyes and sighing several times. The only redeeming factor
was the special effects, and even then they were nothing I hadn't seen
before.

Quite frankly, The film is, in my opinion, a film for children who
don't pay mind to anything but the pretty colours and cool stunts.
Nothing more.
<|_=00=_|>
The 17-year-old Sean Anderson (Josh Hutcherson) receives a coded signal
and his stepfather Hank (Dwayne Johnson) helps him to decipher the
message. They find that Sean's grandfather Alexander Anderson (Michael
Caine) has found the mysterious island in the Pacific described by
Julio Verne and two other writers in their novels.

The stubborn Sean wants to travel to the coordinates and Hank decides
to buy the tickets and travel with the teenager to a small island
nearby the location. They rent an old helicopter owned by the locals
Gabato (Luis Guzmán) and his teenage daughter Kailani (Vanessa Hudgens)
and the group heads to the unknown spot. Along their journey, they
cross a hurricane and crash in the island. They find a beautiful and
dangerous place, surrounded by forests, volcanoes with lava of gold and
menacing life forms. The meet also the old Alexander and Hank discovers
that the island is sinking. Now their only chance to survive is to find
the legendary Nautilus. 

"Journey 2: The Mysterious Island" is a movie with a trailer that is
better than the film itself. The lame screenplay begins in a fast pace,
with Hank and Sean guessing to quickly the message. The story is very
weak and the film is supported by the special effects only. The spoiled
Sean and the rude Alexander are detestable characters and Gabato is
stupid and annoying and never funny as supposed to be. Hank is multi-
skilled in codes, hydraulic and electric engineering, medicine, and
music and diving. In the end, "Journey 2: The Mysterious Island" is a
very disappointing adventure. My vote is four.

Title (Brazil): "Viagem 2: A Ilha Misteriosa" ("Journey 2: The
Mysterious Island")
<|_=00=_|>
Not so much a sequel as a new story altogether comes this likableif
unnecessaryadventure about Sean Anderson, a callow youth and 'Vernian'
who receives an encoded message then becomes obsessed with the idea
that it was sent by his absentee grandfather who may or may not have
discovered a mythical island that may or may not really exist.
Accompanied by his stepfather, a frugal pilot, and the pilot's
attractive daughter, Sean travels across the Pacific to the island
where the group encounters an assortment of wonders but just as many
dangerous perils. Uninspired, fairly predictable, but Johnson and Caine
give the film some much needed gravitas, Guzman adds his trademark
comic relief, there are some good effects and exciting moments every
now and again, but the subplot about parents and their children doesn't
really resonate. A good family-oriented fare, just nothing special. **
<|_=00=_|>
Somewhere in Hollywood there are people who think children are morons
and when they set up to make a kid movie, they do it starting with this
premise. Morons they may be, but not in the sense their brains don't
work well, but because they don't have enough experience. As such, this
kind of films appear to me made for retarded (in the real sense of the
word) people.

As a sequel to Journey to the Center of the Earth from 2008, it is not
that bad. The only character remaining, though, is Josh Hutcherson's,
so I was at first confused if this is the sequel to that film or to
Race to Witch Mountain, which stared Dwayne Johnson and some kids.
Also, all the characters are male but for a teen that has no real role
in the film. So I was really missing Anita Briem.

The effects were not bad, rather average. The plot itself, taken from
afar and with the grain of salt that one has to take with a movie made
for children, had potential. I also liked how the characters completed
one another, instead of the lone hero knowing and doing everything.
However the script to this plot was so incredibly bad that I could not
like it, no matter how much I tried.

Bottom line: a franchise dedicated to the sense of wonder and discovery
in Jules Verne's books should make more of an effort for actual
education. Dropping occasional (and conflicting) science facts that
don't even apply to the situation is not enough. Also, having silly to
the point of idiotic characters doesn't really inspire kids, either. I
grew up with the books of Jules Verne. This entire series has nothing
to do with them.
