
I am an avid fan of the original movie. While the concept of
vigilantism has been around for decades in film, it was never
communicated in such a way. The original movie was both entertaining,
and made certain statements about society. After all, isn't the first
purpose of film to entertain, and the second to create a message? If
the first movie focused on the message, the second seemed to focus more
on the entertainment. I'm OK with that. I already know what the McManus
boys are all about. Still, it was refreshing to see Il Duce's beginning
as a killer, even catching a glimpse of the first version of the gun
vest.

I was very skeptical of Clifton Collins Jr., thinking that he would
simply be a stand-in for Rocco. He wasn't. He had his own personality,
although I would have liked to have seen him involved in what the boys
were doing on a more personal level. It was like he was waiting for
them to come along just so he would have an excuse to kill mobsters.

The humor, slow-motion gunfights, and light-hearted moments were back.
During the first half, I sometimes felt the humor needed to be left
behind and the serious tone needed to come into play, but the second
half delivered that aspect very well, so it balances out in the end.

Julie Benz. Hmmmm. Attractive, intelligent, fun. But the southern
accent is so thick I had a hard time focusing on anything else.

I would like to make a special note of how ridiculous it is for someone
to dual-wield Desert Eagles, even if they have compensators attached.

Still, none of my complaints stopped me from enjoying the movie. I
watched it for what it is. An over the top-low(er) budget film that was
written to please fans of the original. I took it for what it is, and I
think I'm better off for it.

Many people criticize Troy and the films themselves, some going so far
as to say fans should go kill themselves. The internet, where everyone
thinks their opinion is fact, and everyone is a hardass. If you don't
like the movies, fine, but please, don't insult the intelligence of the
fans. Liking something that you don't doesn't make us any less
intelligent than you. If you want to pick on someone, pick on the
Twilight fans that think those movies are a real representation of love
and vampire mythology.

I hear Troy can be a bit of a douche. Maybe that's true, maybe it
isn't. What isn't true, is that the movies do not rip off of Tarantino.
I like Tarantino's work, but he was not the first person to do the
flashback narrative, dual wielding of pistols, slow motion gunfights,
etc. etc. That's like saying Halo was the first good shooter. All
movies borrow elements from one another. They're called themes and
archetypes.

All in all, an enjoyable film that gives the fans a taste of what
they've been missing for ten years. The editing is a little spotty at
times, and not everything hits the right beat, but simply to see the
boys in action again was enough to make me smile and laugh out loud,
and once again, isn't that what movies are supposed to do? Its supposed
to entertain us.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me clarify something right off the bat... I am not a fanboy who
rated this thing a 10 and down votes every negative review here. But
I'm also not a hater. I enjoyed parts of the original movie when it
came out. Sure it gets a little sillier with each subsequent viewing
and there's nothing terribly original about it but it had an infectious
style and a solid cast.

To be blunt, I can't even believe this sequel is for real. And I'm
shocked how many fans of the first film say they enjoy it. For me this
was a complete misfire every step of the way. The plot is ludicrous.
Not because it's too complicated but because it just defies logic. It
is not a compelling story on any level. It's an excuse to get the boys
back in their pea coats and shooting guns in slow motion. There isn't a
single plot point that's credible or followed through on. The movie
keeps changing what it's really about. It doesn't feel like layers in a
mystery are being pulled back. It feels like Duffy had no idea what
this was really about and just kept letting the script wander.
Characters are introduced halfway through with no real purpose or
development.

The acting just flat out sucks. And I like a lot of these actors. Aside
from Billy Connolly and Peter Fonda no one understands how to be
subtle. They all crank it to eleven and turn themselves into cartoons,
not characters. I thought the first one did a much better job of
balancing the humor, action, and drama. Duffy appears clueless on how
to accomplish that this time out. The bad guys aren't remotely
threatening and even the returning detectives are made to look like
buffoons at every turn.

The action scenes in the first film contain a lot of creative ideas
that aren't shot as well as they could have been. They're not terrible,
but not mind blowing. This one is just embarrassing. Every action beat
consists of slow motion, techno music, and the brothers standing in
plain view and not getting hit once (until the end when the script
requires them to).

It also just feels smaller and cheaper than the original. The settings
in the first one seemed real and dirty. We got a sense of the blue
collar life in Boston. This one feels like it was shot on sitcom sets.
And with hardly any extras it feels like our main characters and
villains are the only people in the city.

I know you're all going to bury this review because you don't agree but
there wasn't a single thing I found redeeming about this movie. Bad
script, bad acting, bad directing, bad music, bad editing... it's just
bad.
<|_=00=_|>
For those of us who have been cult fans of the original, the last ten
years have been a long ten. It was only a short while after the first
film that they announced a sequel, but that sequel never came about.
Then, finally, after all this time, here we are with All Saints Day,
and it's a film that should entertain most, if not all fans.
Unfortunately, it isn't quite the sequel I had hoped for.

Saints II picks up with the Saints having moved to Ireland after their
vigilante spree throughout Boston. When a priest is killed in Boston,
the Saints return to find the killer and take out everyone involved.
The story soon opens up into a deeper plot about past sins coming back
to haunt their characters.

All Saints Day continues the duologue slick, trigger happy style of the
first film with rapid fire gun play, film homages, and snapfire
duologue that is throughly entertaining. The gun play here is even more
stylized, and it makes for some very entertaining action packed scenes
that should please everyone who loved the first film. Most of the old
cast has returned, and then there is the new cast, who bring some
entertaining acting chops with them, mostly in the form of comic
relief. Suffice to say, everything you liked about the first one is
here, so if you were a fan of that film, you'll most likely love the
sequel.

Unfortunately, All Saints Day isn't quite up to par with that first
film. Where the first film had a natural flow to it, the sequel is
somewhat disjointed, and the cast seems to try too hard. While everyone
is real cool and funny, a lot of it seems to be too over the top, and
after a while it begins to work against the film. Julie Benz and
Clifton Collins Jr. try to make up for their first films counterparts,
that being Wilem Defoe and David Della Rocco respectively, but are poor
substitutes. Where these characters from the first one seemed to be
very natural and perfect in their element, the new cast members seem to
be trying to make up for a lack of said characters, and it shows. There
are also several silly and useless scenes that, while creative, are out
of place and could have very well been left out of the film. In
particular is a dream sequence with a character from the first film and
a scene with Julie Benz character as a cowgirl.

Fortunately, the end of the film is save by a fantastic climax headed
by Billy Connely and Peter Fonda. Their scene at the end is some of the
best written stuff of either of the films and these veteran actors
bring all their chops to this film. Adding to this is a very pleasant
bit part from a Boondock Saints favorite that should leave fans smiling
as they leave the theater.

Saints II is a film for the fans, that's for sure. It may even
encourage some to go see the first if they haven't seen it already,
though this isn't all that likely. But, this is a very entertaining and
decently written film that continues this great vigilante tale and may
even lead to more. As fans, we can only hope to see more of the Saints
in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
Being a huge fan of the first film, it's kind of difficult to admit
this, but The Boondock Saints: All Saints Day just fell short. 

The major flaw with the original was that it was a Tarantino-esquire
action spoof that was attempting to be serious. Complete with over the
top shootout scenes, campy dialog, and insanely unrealistic situations,
whether the creators knew it or not, the original Boondock Saints was
never meant to be taken seriously. It was just a fun movie. 

Anyway, about 15 minutes into this film, it seems as though Troy Duffy
had realized this and decided to embrace what the first film should
have always been: an entertaining, over-the-top, shoot 'em up flick. 

Enter Julie Benz and the three detectives. 

See, what made the three detectives from the first Saints funny was not
the dimwitted, slapstick gimmick they had in this film, it was Willem
Dafoe. It wasn't that they were THAT dumb, it was that Smecker was THAT
good. The weird guy was better than the average joes could have ever
dreamed to be, and laughs ensued. 

In Boondocks 2, you have three actors who are trying way too damn hard
to be funny, followed by Julie Benz trying to play a female Paul
Smecker. These characters worked in the first film because they
actually had a decent performance to play off of.

Don't get me wrong, Julie Benz is great on Dexter, but she was just god
awful in this movie. They might as well have tried to pass off that
Smecker had a sex change, and that he and Bloom were the same person.
They say imitation is the highest form of flattery, but in this case,
it was probably an insult. Also, the Southern Accent was just
atrocious. 

Aside from that, this film seemed to have expanded on what the original
should have always been. There was more laughs, more action, and more
blatantly forced accents. Hell, even the obvious replacement for Rocco
wasn't half bad. 

Dump every scene with Bloom, Greenly, Duffy, and Dolly, and you have
yourself a sequel that nearly matches the original. 

However, they were still in the movie, and they ruined it every time
they were on screen. 

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Being a fan of the Saints for years I went into this movie with high
expectations and a good amount of personal excitement. Unfortunately,
this movie fell way below the standards set by the first installment,
for these reasons:

.paper thin plot = very generic, the kind of thing you come up with in
five minutes of stereotypical mob brainstorming.

.Dumbed down = Where the first movie succeeded in being witty and fun
the second can only survive off of gay jokes and three stooges antics.

.Copying = It seemed like every single well known moment in the first
movie was copy and pasted into this movie with the exact same outcome
every time. Like they couldn't of anything else to do with them but
what they already did. 

.Dependent = This movie depended Way too heavily on the first being the
underground classic it was. It just tries so hard to be the same
bad-ass movie that all the shootout scenes are in slomo and last 25-30
min apiece. 

Troy Duffy had his chance to make a movie again and in my opinion all
he did was plagiarize himself. Though at times it was funny, the few
and far between moments were not enough to save what should have been a
continuation of a vigilante cult classic that survived despite the
odds. What we get instead is Troy Duffy's homage to himself and a movie
that never should have been made.
<|_=00=_|>
WOW! I absolutely loved the original. This one is so bad, I almost hate
the first movie. Seriously awful. It's full of terrible acting
performances from actors who put in a good turn first time around. I
hate when a character knows what's quirky about themselves. I can't
believe in them when everyone appears as though they know they're in a
movie and are IN on the joke. They're not supposed to be, only the
audience is. The movie is filled with forced references to what came
off in the first film as spontaneous but simply now fall flat. Reedus
and Flanery are slumming here. Also slumming is Julie Benz who is
basically playing Kyra Sedgwick as The Closer (2005 TV Series). I
understand the draw to be in this film, knowing the cult following of
the original but this was a big mistake for everyone involved from top
to bottom. I don't want to blame the actors totally, there's hardly a
good performance to be seen, but with what they had to work with, good
lord. 

I wanted to love this so bad. I even lowered my expectations in order
to have a buffer to allow me to think it was better than expected.
Impossible. Boondock Saints one was lightning in a bottle. Perhaps even
a fluke. Sure, I saw "Overnight" and bore witness to the train wreck
that was Troy Duffy but I always felt saddened by the fact that the
original movie showed that he actually had talent and that his demise
meant never seeing what he could do if given all of the right
ingredients to make more films. If they are anything like this one, I
would say that BS1 was indeed a fluke not to be repeated. Furthermore,
it makes me wonder if he actually directed BS1.

Unless your character's are Ferris Bueller, they shouldn't be so self
aware. It takes them and your audience out of the movie. We need to
discover the path WITH our heroes, not have it all drawn out like Wyle
E. Coyote's moronic designs. Repeatedly in this film a character will
say something and, as the audience member you think, "I knew he was
going to say that. And I wish he hadn't"

By the way, I sure wish Judd Nelson would could land some major films.
Given the right script and director, we could get some great
performances out of him. Right when he seemed to be channeling Pacino,
he was derailed with asinine dialog injected to sound witty , profound
or even just profane but landed like a thud. I hearken back to Saints 1
where Carlo Rota as Yakavetta is yelling at someone on the phone as he
gets his sandwich. That exchange is confusing and out of contexts but
feels so real. It was either his brilliant acting or a combination of
that, script and direction. That movie was filled with that brilliance.
BSII had NONE of it. I'd say the best part of this movie is the tease
we get of Rocco and his voice over at the opening of the film. The rest
goes downhill so fast it's almost a free fall. 

I will forever try to forget that this movie exists so I can still
enjoy the raw energy and relentless pace of the first film. This movie
is the second Boondock Saints film, yes, that's right, it's NUMBER TWO!
<|_=00=_|>
This whole movie feels forced, it is as though one of 'the saints' put
a gun to the creators head and demanded a sequel. 

The only people who are going to watch this are those who liked the
original (which was a great niche action movie 8/10 stars). BSII fails
to love up to the original in every way; interesting & entertaining
characters are replaced with cheap & annoying ones; old gimmicks are
simply rehashed; the leads look old & tired; recurring characters look
lost & bewildered; and where the original BS story was simple, tight, &
original, BS2's plot is overcomplicated and contrived.

There are some thrills and spills to be had in BSII, but it is
difficult to watch something fall so far short from the quality of the
original.

On the Fruit-Meter, BSII gets the "SULTANA (or RAISEN)'  The original
grape was fresh and juicy, the sequel has lost all the original zesty
flavours and has too many wrinkles.
<|_=00=_|>
How to go wrong with a sequel: 

1. Use the same storyline and premise and fail to build any new
conflict.

2. Use all the same cinema techniques and add louder music.

3. Get the same cast but tell them to overact and look ridiculous.

4. Only spend five minutes writing your screenplay.

This movie is a joke. Troy Duffy obviously felt that he needed to cash
in on his cult success with the first movie. There was no character
development. The plot was only mildly different and the characters
acted as if their IQ's had dropped forty points between movies.
Horrible writing!! You shouldn't put a decade between ideas!

The original Boondock Saints had a gritty feel to it. The moments of
comedy were never campy or corny, but actually a bit morbid. In this
waste-of-money-called-a-sequel, there is no dark edge. The characters
are lacking depth and conviction; it feels as if the cast is simply
going through the motions. The story is not cohesive and the plot just
plain fails to hold up. The only things that keep interest, are the
flashback back-story sequences about the father.

Do not waste your time or money!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie definitely let me down. It wasn't taken seriously, even by
the actors. I'm sure it was very fun to make and I might have even
enjoyed it a little bit if I didn't know the original existed. Granted,
the first is a very hard act to follow, but it could have been much
better. The first half of the movie I wanted to walk out, though the
second was somewhat redeeming it just wasn't enough. I think Troy Duffy
should give me my money back and start making music again. He had a
brilliant idea with the first one and got very lucky making it so good,
the second it is clear he was just having a good time with the cast and
basking in the nostalgia of the first. I'm sorry, but this movie just
isn't good.
<|_=00=_|>
If a class was given on cheesy action movies 101 and this was the final
project handed in, expect an A+ mark. This movie failed on so many
levels, it deeply saddens me.

I have and always have been a true fan of the original movie even
thinking it might be a good idea to get their veritas and aequitas
tattoos done. What was presented to me tonight was probably the worst
piece of crap i have seen in recent times. Our good ole boys known for
their strong poise turned in to a bunch of horrible actors making the
dumbest jokes i have ever seen. What happened guys? Recession got you
so you figured you would take this crappy part for the Ferrari fund?
Where the first movie had power ,belief and a true direction, this
movie was the complete opposite hopping around with no sense. A Mexican
"funny man" as Rocco? Are you kidding me? How about the horrible "sit
in" for Willem Dafoe or the crappy references to the first movie. I can
keep going on and on about it although i must mention Billy Connoly
(their dad in the first) played a solid part reminding me why i loved
the saints so much.

It failed to the point where i almost walked out multiple times. Please
skip this movie like the plague and keep the amazing memory of the
first in your head. I sure wish i would of kept my money.
