
This is my first review on IMDb so bare with me. Coriolanus has the
right ingredients for a good movie, great story(can you top
Shakespeare?) and a strong cast.Only thing that was unknown so far is
the director.IMO Mr. Fiennes did very well in his debut, his camera
moves around at eyes height and often lingers close up to actors
faces(it keeps the film from being stagy and lets you see all the
nuances they convey).Locations are interesting and there are couple of
nice fight scenes.The language is Shakespirian but i had no problems
understanding it( not my native lang.), musical score is kinda tribal
and quite appropriate for the theme of the film. It's a very dark movie
and it gets a bit bloody sometime so if you're not into that be warned.
My vote is 8/10 i recommend it to everyone and hope to see more of Mr.
Fiennes work behind the camera. P.S. Look out Ken Branagh you've got
some competition now :)
<|_=00=_|>
I had the pleasure of seeing Ralph Fiennes's "Coriolanus" at the St.
Louis International Film Festival, on Nov 11th, 2011. I was on the edge
of my seat through the entire film. Needless to say, the filming,
production values, etc., were fantastic; but it was the relevance of
the film that kept me glued to the screen. 

Ralph Fiennes captured the timeless concepts that Shakespeare expressed
in his play brilliantly - so much so that I feel there will be
strong/visceral audience reaction to the film's depiction of themes
that reflect in today's front page stories. 

The theme of a military officer's political role resonated with me as a
retired Navy Officer. The theme of the contrast between "high society"
and the proletariat resonates in the "Occupy XXX" protests occurring
today. The conflict between liberal and conservative (dare I say
Democrat vs. Republican) ideals played very loudly in this film. Even
the issues in European politics reflected themes we see in today's
news. 

The acting by Ralph Fiennes, Vanessa Redgrave & Gerard Butler propelled
the story and kept it moving swiftly. Some have panned the use of
Shakespeare's original language. I, for one, had no trouble following
the language. This film ranks with Kenneth Brannagh's "Henry V" and Baz
Luhrmann's "William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet" for making a film in
Shakespearean English accessible by 21st Century Man. 

I've always believed that some folks in the U.S. malign William
Shakespeare's writings today, because they were forced to read his
plays in a cold classroom setting in their youth. Shakespeare didn't
intend his works to be read. He meant them to be performed and watched.
This film proves the power of a good telling of a Shakespeare tale.
<|_=00=_|>
A jaw-dropping interpretation of Shakespeare's Coriolanus. I was
literally in awe when I left. Admittedly, I know my way around the
story, I've read Coriolanus a few times. But I have to say that this
adaptation is so well executed that I caught myself discovering
incredible lines and themes and ideas to which I had never paid
attention before. Ralph Fiennes' interpretation of Coriolanus is solid.
The pride, the wrath, the one-track-mindedness are all very palpable.
And one couldn't wish for a better Volumnia. Terrifying. Fascinating.
I've always been reluctant to modern settings, but this time, I loved
it. It just worked. Go and see for yourself. As for me, I'm definitely
going to watch it again.
<|_=00=_|>
I couldn't disagree more with the review that slates Shakespeare's text
as 'too wordy for modern audiences'. Viewers may find it challenging,
but even those who haven't read his work should appreciate his superb
capacity for character, metaphor and sheer innovation. To reduce the
play to just the plot with some poor, clichéd and genuinely meaningless
Hollywood script is to deprive it of its value, and to do a great
disservice to its literary status. The responsibility for understanding
the language (which I staunchly believe has a timeless relevance), lies
with those who struggle to do so, not with the text itself. I cannot
disagree strongly enough with the implication that we should dumb-down
Shakespeare.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got out of the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF) North
American Premier Gala event of Coriolanus. The movie was both gripping
and powerful. Yes it is always nice to see a film with cast and
director in hand to introduce the film and take credit at is
completion, but this movie definitely earned the audiences standing
ovation. Some may fear a presentation in Iambic Pentameter though the
script and delivery made every line understandable. Setting Shakespeare
in a modern day Roman city state was smart. I enjoyed ever minute of
this film and if you are a fan of good story telling, Shakespeare or
war movies, you will enjoy Coriolanus.
<|_=00=_|>
Shakespeare isn't Shakespeare without Shakespearean language. It might
be difficult to understand exactly what the dialogue is during parts of
Coriolanus, but there's no difficulty following the meaning. The
action, the direction and some powerful performances  most notably
from Ralph Fiennes and Vanessa Redgrave  carry the film and more than
compensate for the language barriers. Some people walked out about
halfway through but the climactic third act made it well worth the
perseverance  especially Redgrave's moving monologue as the formidable
matriarch Volumnia.

Gerard Butler was pretty forgettable in this. Whether that's because he
isn't exactly of thespian discipline or because his character isn't
particularly pronounced in this play, is up to you to decide. Perhaps
he and Jessica Chastain are nothing more than a bit of totty to sell
the film? Perhaps that's just a bit cynical.

James Nesbitt added an interesting, somewhat unexpected dynamic to the
play with his enigmatic nuances of jest and malice. Also worth a
mention was the little-known Dragan Micanovic who played a minor
character, Titus, but delivered a couple of pivotal lines with
engrossing presence.

The real star of the show is obviously Shakespeare. His poetic prose
courses through your mind and adds fuel to the fires of his drama. His
characters are bold and consistent, truly agents of their own
destinies. The subject matter resonates with political allegory and the
film's release is timely and relevant. The play set in a present day
context highlights the tribal social system which still dominates our
affairs. The story also works to express the futility of war.

Fiennes has done well to translate Coriolanus from the stage to the
screen and he hasn't stretched it too far so as to alienate it from the
original text. Stylistically, the film is quite gritty. The focus is
mostly on the actors, their eyes, their expressions and their
delivering of lines, but there are a few purely cinematic moments
(fight scenes in particular) which justify the adaptation to the
screen. There are a couple of truly violent moments in the film which
blast the cobwebs off the old play and hook the modern, desensitized
audience into the story.

Coriolanus is a tense and violent political wartime thriller which
makes Shakespeare not only accessible but utterly captivating. A
credible directorial debut from one of the industry's finest working
actors.

http://ionlyaskedwhatyouthought.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Shakespeare's most complicated tragedy set in the early days of the
Rome Republic gets an updated setting in Fiennes' movie. Using
story-telling techniques combining CNN, CSI, and YouTube along with
images of street demonstrations, riots, and urban warfare, Fiennes
gives us a Coriolanus befitting our times, clarifying how the titular
hero can fall from national hero to banishment in a matter of minutes
on the whims of a fickle populous easily swayed by political
spin-masters. Still, the mamma's boy element of Coriolanus' tragedy
remains intact.

Though significantly cut, the text is pure Shakespeare, even in the
mouths of TV talking-head pundits. Spoken by the likes of Fiennes and
Brian Cox, the verse lifts what could have been a gimmickry telling of
Coriolanus into a five-star Shakespearean movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Coriolanus (Ralph Fiennes) uses military force against people's
uprising when they demonstrate against oppression and starving in Rome.
Coriolanus is first declared as a hero but later relegated from the
city by the Senate for his brutality. He then allied himself with its
former enemy Tullus Aufidius (Gerard Butler) and they march together to
Rome to destroy the city. Coriolanus's mother, wife and son plead for
peace and reconciliation and when he gives up he is murdered by Tullus
Aufidius.

Shakespeare's dramas may well be set up in a contemporary set, because
the content is timeless. Here the screenplay drama is performed in its
original text. The old lines sometimes are in conflict with the modern
outfit, but you are quickly caught back to the drama by the violent
intrigues and you become strongly affected by the deep conflicts
between power and love. The war scenes are realistic and bloody. It is
exciting and the outcome uncertain for the uninitiated.

Ralph Fiennes both directs and plays the title role and succeeds well.
He has got a star team both in front and behind the camera. The film
photo by Barry Ackroyd is brilliant. The set and costumes are next to
perfection. The 74-year-old Vanessa Redgrave portrays Coriolanus'
mother, Volumnia, powerful and convincing. Gerard Butler as the rebel
leader acts with strong charisma and realism. Additional casting is
also very good.

The staging reminds strongly of the NATO's efforts in the Balkan War.
Military leaders are wearing American uniforms and the recordings are
made in the environments of Belgrade and in Serbia.

Eight of ten for a masterful direction, brilliant acting and a clever
staging.
<|_=00=_|>
Coriolanus is not quite one of William Shakespeare's famous plays but
this adaptation is pretty great. It starts with a bang. Slow burn of
loud noises. It's a decent opening. And it gets better when Caius
Martius was introduced. Even though the setting is modern, the language
stays to the film. But in some parts, the language doesn't fit to the
scene. Ralph Fiennes' performance was fantastic. All the performances
were fantastic. Well directed. Beautiful cinematography. Slick music
score. Coriolanus is a solid Shakespeare adaptation.

The film introduces with loud noises and explosions. These elements
usually overwhelm us in movies. Never forget, this is a Shakespeare
film. The dialogue beats the loud noises from its greatness. Everything
in this film is modern. The only thing remains here is the language. Of
course, it's not Shakespeare without the language.The scenes in
television are probably the ones that doesn't fit to the language but
somewhat it doesn't matter. It still makes a great Shakespearean
scenario.

These dialogues were amazingly delivered by the actors. Ralph Fiennes
is fantastic. Even from the very start of the film, he already made the
show fascinating. He's born to play these kinds of roles. His rage is
the core of his talent. Vanessa Redgrave also compels to the picture.
Gives a powerful delivery to her dialogue. In other filmmaking, the
cinematography is beautiful but the shaky camera might messes some of
the shot. The music score is simply slick with drums. Giving extra
thrills to the scenes. Lastly is the action scenes, these scenes
doesn't quite matter if it's good or bad but it feels like The Hurt
Locker.

It's satisfying enough to see this by the actors and the language. Its
context is more mind blowing than the explosions. The filmmaking is
very decent. It's a clever modernization and great familiarization to
this not so famous play of William Shakespeare. Ralph Fiennes keeps the
interest and shines throughout the show. Coriolanus never disappoints.
It's a truly Shakespeare picture even if everything but the language is
modern. It's just fascinating.
<|_=00=_|>
A modern-day spin on one of Shakespeare's lesser known plays,
Coriolanus is an ambitious and lyrical Greek tragedy that has
everything you'd expect from the mind of the Bard; betrayal, revenge,
pride, conflict, monologues, dilemmas, death- it's all in there. The
only thing missing is a star-crossed lover or two.

Both its star and director, Ralph Fiennes follows past masters Laurence
Olivier and Kenneth Branagh onto the breach in this doomy and demanding
directorial debut that may signal a new and exciting direction for the
steely-eyed actor. 

Set in a city on the verge of collapse that resembles Tripoli but calls
itself Rome, the film charts the rise and fall of general Coriolanus
(Fiennes); a fiery soldier of war-torn Rome who earns his stripes in a
bloody battle against an insurgent army lead by Turrus (Gerard Butler).
In the aftermath of a brutal bullet storm and knife fight, Coriolanus
emerges victorious and is branded the symbol of a new and prosperous
empire. It doesn't work out. The decorated vet is more brawn than
brains; his strong sense of pride coupled with the dirty work of
corrupt bureaucrats and advisors lead to civil unrest and, in turn, a
verbal attack by Coriolanus' on the people of Rome which results in his
banishment from the city. Bitter, betrayed and hell- bent on revenge,
the spitting outlaw seeks refuge and redemption in who else but his
sworn enemy, Turrus. 

Swapping the frantic razzmatazz of Baz Lurhmann's Romeo and Juliet
retool for a far more gritty and paced approach, Fiennes has crafted a
brave and bombastic drama that'll probably find its way onto a school
curriculum or two before the year is out. And why not. His contemporary
vision of a 300+ year old morality play is one awash with thought,
feeling, values, complexities, politics and emotion- pure,
unadulterated Shakespeare.

Coriolanus is far from the vision of just one man, though. Gladiator
screenwriter Josh Lucas lays the necessary footing for Fiennes and Hurt
Locker cinematographer Barry Ackroyd to bring the tale to life.
Stirling support also comes in the shape of seasoned thesps Brian cox,
Vanessa Redgrave, James Nesbitt and....Gerard Butler; all of which are
new to big-screen Shakespeare yet convincing nonetheless. Even Butler.

The screen belongs to a raw and rampant Ralph Fiennes, though. More
than just a noseless sorcerer, Fiennes is an exceptional actor and,
now, promising director whose verbose and gung-ho approach from both
behind and in front of the lens makes for a fascinating commitment.
"Such is the work of a man". Olivier and Branagh would be proud.
Coriolanus will have Shakespeare enthusiasts chomping-at-the-bit,
students scrambling for the exits.
