
To sum it up, a very powerful film falling just short of being a
masterpiece. However, the only flaw in the film is that the film could
have been just a bit longer! I am really hoping for a director's cut
because there should have been a few more character development scenes
between father and son, boyfriend and girlfriend, and even Ape and
Human. I felt the movie was paced a bit too quickly but nevertheless,
still contains very fleshed out characters driven by excellent
performances throughout, from Lithgow, to Franco, to Cox and especially
by Andy Serkis.

Cesar is by far the best animated character in the history of cinema.
His facial expressions tell it all! You feel his rage, his fear, and
his child like innocence through his wonderfully animated eyes. Not
only is the C.G.I. good, but the character is written very well in
general. You will go through all of those emotions yourself as you
witness his journey. All I can say is that I now know why I try to walk
my dog without a leash as much as possible. This movie just confirmed
it for me! Through the film, you will understand what Cesar is feeling
and why. The invisible character of the film is humanity itself, and at
times, feels like a study of human nature.

Plot wise, it is very well told. I thought there was nothing cheesy
about the script, although not as intelligent as the original, but not
dumb either. There is some science fiction in the film, and other than
the experimental drug, there was some other surprising Science fiction
plot elements in it too which might lead into the sequel; if there is
one of course, and I think there will be.

For the skeptics who think the film would be cheesy seeing all the apes
battle armed policemen then think again. I too, was a bit skeptical at
first, wondering how the apes would defeat an entire police force, but
when you watch the film your doubts would dissipate. Just remember the
physical ability of apes and how powerful the apes are, and how much
more powerful they would be if they had brains! The action was very
good, but as good as it was, I'd trade it in for more plot development.
There were a bit too many plot jumps in the last 30 minutes, but all in
all, it was directed very, very well. Coupled with a good score, mellow
at times, but highly dramatic which heightens the tension. Speaking of
tension, there is a lot of it in this film. If you're an animal lover
like I am, then be warned; You will be in tears 30 seconds into the
opening scene.

I also wanted to mention the original film even though it's tough to
compare the two. This is an origins story that actually makes the
original better. The original was more about the plot than the
characters and they each stand apart and alone with their own merits
and flaws. It was nice to see a few homages to the old classic, and
don't be surprised if you see a character from the original as well. I
highly doubt this film will disappoint the fans of the original and TV
series! It will have you climbing trees!
<|_=00=_|>
There are so many things right about this movie, the little things that
are wrong are easily forgiven. Some slight plot holes, but the film and
characters make up for it. The chemistry between Franco and Pinto is
weak, however Franco plays his part. Lithgow is always a great asset to
any production, and does a great job here.

Albeit you know the chimps are CGI, their eyes look amazing, with depth
and personality, and along with their body language and facial
animations, you really do forget they are CGI. The music is powerful
and tense, and I loved the way it builds up through out the movie.
Starting with light orchestra at the beginning, while starting to feel
very tribal without overdoing it towards the end.

There are moments that are truly gratifying, and Caeser really steals
the show with his evolution through out the movie. The journey Caeser
takes really connects and you feel his plight. With moments of thought,
heart and action, Rise really hits the mark for the audience it's
aiming for.

Excellent entertainment all round!
<|_=00=_|>
I had extremely low expectations for Rise of the Planet of the Apes
(2011). I loved the original 1968 classic, but every sequel/remake
after it sucked. I was surprised they were going to make a prequel of
the classic and I thought it was a good idea. But still after so many
bad sequels and remakes, I still had my big doubts. Also I didn't like
how the monkeys were made by CGI/Special Effects, why not use a robotic
monkey or a real one, it would look more real.

After my viewing of the film, I was pleasantly surprised and I liked it
overall. But there were definitely flaws in the movie, no doubt about
it. The characters were a bit uninteresting at times, there were
subplots that went pretty much nowhere and indicated that there could
sequels in the works, but it all depends on how much money it makes.
The movie, at some points turned to an average summer blockbuster with
all the action scenes and explosions, but it redeems itself later on.

However there are plenty of positive qualities, the movie has. Andy
Serkis delivers a great performance as the lead ape in the film and is
pretty much the star of the film. James Franco and Freida Pinto, both
did a good job portraying their characters. The movie also poses
ethical/moral questions, which I found very interesting. The movie is
easily on of the most thrilling films we've had this summer. Finally a
movie that pays respect to the 1968 original science fiction classic!
<|_=00=_|>
Of all the movies that can possibly be re-booted......why reboot
another movie that's already been re-booted? And of all the projects
that the Weta team can possibly tackle, why this one? Well it must be
the script, because everyone that's come across it has wanted to be
somewhat involved. Hopefully it lives up to the expectations that are
already in place, because i don't think i could handle another stink
bomb like Burton's version.

Finally......a summer movie that's actually WORTH your summer dollar.
Almost every element of this film is pitch perfect. Just what makes
this 'oh so' great? Allow me to explain....

Judging from the preview, i thought the movie to be a little too
relative to the concept from "Deep Blue Sea". But this movie takes a
much more different route with their Alzheimer's approach. Needless to
say, they did a much better job than that movie.....obviously.

I know most people may be scratching their heads to this comment, but
in my opinion, this is easily the most well written script of the year
thus far. It's intelligent, thought provoking, emotional, and damn well
entertaining. What makes this so good is the progression of the main
ape 'Ceaser' (heh, ironic name), and his journey from a curious and
smart ape, into an upset ape that realizes the harsh realities of being
treated like an animal. It's now easy to see just why everyone jumped
on board when they read this. I kid you not, i actually got goosebumps
from this movie, and that rarely happens.

And once again, the Weta team did a phenomenal job with their brilliant
special effects. Andy Serkis who has already done work like this before
in 'Lord of Rings' and 'King Kong', out preformed most actors in
Hollywood without barely saying a word. Is it wrong to say that a man
in a blue suit with dots all over him, imitating an ape is so far the
best actor i've seen this year? Uh.....not at all. Trust me, see the
movie, and you'll understand why.

Bottom Line.......not only is this easily the best movie of the summer,
i will go as far as saying it's the best movie i have seen so far this
year. Yes, it is THAT good. Like i said earlier, almost every element
of this movie is pitch perfect. The writing, the acting, the special
effects.....all done to near perfection. It some people's eyes, this is
called a reboot. However, it feels more like a prequel. But judging
from what i just saw, i hope to god that they make more of these,
because it literally just blew my mind.
<|_=00=_|>
The one thing that always made the "Planet of the Apes" a bit campy was
actors in make up and monkey suits. So in one instance, here's where
technology, specifically the use motion- capture technology as seen in
"Avatar," can almost single-handedly justify revisiting an old
franchise. But the apes of "Rise of the Planet of the Apes" don't just
look amazing  they have souls. So does this script, which delivers one
of the summer's biggest surprises in terms of pure entertainment and
depth of storytelling.

Unlike the "Transformers" franchise, where giant steel-crushing robots
have gotten lost in inane plots driven by pointless human characters,
"Rise" keeps the primates as an almost exclusive focus. Somewhere close
to the midpoint, humans even take a back seat to the captivating
ape-centered story arcs crafted by writers Rick Jaffa and Amanda
Silver. Not only do apes most definitely rise in this movie, but they
also do so with clear tremendous purpose. The story of how a potential
cure for Alzheimer's went out of control couldn't be more crystal
clear, as is the reasoning that inspires an ape named Caesar to incite
a rebellion.

James Franco plays scientist Will Rodman, who's experimenting with his
Alzheimer's cure on apes. His most recent tests show incredible
cognitive abilities in one ape and so he makes a presentation to the
company's board asking for permission to test the drug on humans.
Things go wrong during the presentation, however, when the ape goes,
well  ape  and on display for the whole lab. The apes are ordered to
be put down and Franco's entire operation gets shut down.

However, the trial ape had been hiding a newborn baby. Will secretly
takes it home where his father (John Lithgow) suffers from Alzheimer's.
Turns out the chimp, which his father names Caesar, inherited the
cognitive abilities of the drug through its mother. As Caesar grows and
exhibits tremendous mental growth (including helping Will land an
otherwise pointless girlfriend in Freida Pinto), Will desperately tests
the drug on his father and suddenly he has hope for the project to
continue.

This origin story plays out for most of the film, but Caesar ends up
becoming the focus. Although he says nothing, he generates incredible
sympathy through consummate mo-cap actor Andy Serkis (Gollum in "The
Lord of the Rings"). Add to that the burgeoning scientific moral
dilemma and "Rise" builds quite the captivating story. The turning
points for Caesar that result in and arise from his inhumane captivity
all wield the impact that pivotal moments should carry in all films.
Despite a story that originated almost 45 years ago, the script lays
this perfect and scientifically reasonable foundation for the "Planet
of the Apes" we already know. The only thing that feels like a reach is
the speed with which the apes develop certain tactical abilities once
they all receive the drug.

Director Rupert Wyatt definitely understands the script handed to him
as he provides the appropriate magnitude to these effective plot points
and knows how to create mouth-agape moments. When Oyewolo's character
arrives at the lab cafeteria to find a bunch of tables overturned,
Wyatt pans up to reveal he's surrounded by apes. There's no reason to
think they weren't there waiting for him, but we're caught off guard
just long enough to know he better make a run for it. Those are the
"glory shots" that make a true blockbuster.

Much of the action used to promote the movie comes in the film's final
act, which uses all the slowly building tension from scenes showing
cruelty toward the apes in the second act to fuel the fire. With such
strong motivation accumulated during these first two chunks of the
film, the action doesn't have to be that explosive or visceral in order
to be effective. Apes tearing humans limb for limb would have certainly
made for a more interesting film to say the least, but "Rise" manages
to get away with the tamer action due to all the powerful setup and
Wyatt provokes some imagination-inspired gore. In addition, the fact
that the apes just knock people unconscious serves the script's efforts
to show how  just like humans  some apes are violent and evil in
nature while some are sympathetic and merciful. The film expertly
muddles our perception of who to root for in this sense.

Considering prequels inherently risk their quality on the fact that we
know the end result, it's impressive that "Rise of the Planet of the
Apes" maintains our interest consistently throughout. The ending does
leave something to be desired because it ends just as the battle
between apes and humans seems to be going somewhere, but even though
I'm not sure what would happen (or what the title would be for that
matter), if the sequel picks up right where this left off  count me
in.

~Steven C
<|_=00=_|>
There was a lot of hype going into this film. I was very excited to
finally see another Planet of the Apes film. I am a big fan of the
original and had fun with the sequels and even after Tim Burton's
remake I was still excited for this film and I got to say this is the
best Planet of the Apes picture since the original.

This story is an origin story about how the Apes began to rise to power
and about a man who is bent on curing Alzheimer's and raising an ape
who has been past on the genes of the cure from his mother and what the
effects this has on this one ape named Caesar.

The very surprising thing about this film is how story based and
character based it really is. From the trailers it looked like just
another cure gone wrong and a lot of violence happens but I was truly
surprised by this film's story and how well told it was. I do think it
needed to be just a tad longer in the beginning showing a little more
of Caesar's childhood but it's a small fault and can be overlooked. But
it is something truly wonderful to see how truly well fleshed out these
characters are in this film especially for a "summer blockbuster." All
character motivations are known throughout the film. James Franco's
character named Will Rodman really wants to make this cure so he can
cure his father. So a lot of us can really connect with him and in
seeing he is making this cure for the best intentions. And his boss is
the classic wants the cure for money type of character. But the best
most drawn out character is the character of Caesar. The chimpanzee
that becomes increased in intelligence is the true star of the film. He
cannot talk and he is a computer made image and yet you really
understand him, love him, and feel for him. Caesar is played by motion
capture actor Andy Serkis (his second film as an ape, the other one
being King Kong (2005)) brings so much to the table. He breathes so
much personality into this ape and it's just truly something to wow at
and the writers are very wise to really shift the story over from Will
to Caesar as Caesar gets sent into an Ape refuge. While there he gets
smarter and learns of the true nature of how apes are treated inside
there and decides to take action.

I think it was very smart on the filmmakers to shift the apes from
makeup to cgi. I wasn't thrilled when I first heard they would make the
apes in the computer but after viewing the film I've realized this was
the only way to go really. It would look incredibly cheesy if they
tried to do what they did in this film with makeup. The motion capture
is some of the best to date and the apes look very real. None of the
makeups did as good as job as the motion capture did at creating real
ape behavior and also by not making them talk I think was a smart move.
I don't think making them be able to speak would make it very realistic
which seems to be more of the way the film tries to go with rather than
a fantasy.

The action is all mostly at the end of the film which is mostly seen in
the trailers. While granted there is a little bit here and a little bit
there it's all really at the end. It all is very entertaining and the
apes do fight like real apes. There are moments where the filmmakers
truly capture an ape aggression and what they are truly capable of. Not
a lot of people know just how strong and fierce they can be and the
film does a good job of showing that.

But something I don't think is mention a lot is that there a nice
magical quality to it. The scene in the redwoods is a very magical
scene and I really liked it and never liked how it isn't mentioned.

The acting is all very good and is a driving point of the film. James
Franco is great, so are John Lithgow and Brian Cox. Also Tom Felton and
David Oyelowo are good. Freida Pinto is good and all but I wish her
character was given a better purpose and is one of the few faults with
this film.

The Music I thought was very good too. It had a very magical yet dark
and exciting feel. Composer Patrick Doyle really gives out his best
score in years. It will by no means become be considered a masterpiece
it just is an above the average movie score and is a score that I would
buy when the soundtrack was released on CD.

The Directing by Rupert Wyatt is very good too. He handles the story
written with such care. His choices in camera movements and how to
properly handle the story is makes him a great choice. Also he uses cgi
to better the project and only really uses it when he needs too which
is something I always respected in a director these days.

The writers Amanda Silver and Rick Jaffa have crafted a great story and
pay so much tribute to the original films. There are so many nice nods
to the original which Planet of the Apes fans will enjoy. They also
really know how write convincing dialogue and leaves the door open for
a sequel but it could be just an make you think type of ending.

The Bottom line is this is a very good story driven film that includes
great special effects and matches the original and is the second best
film of 2011 

Final Score 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
If you're like me, you will be completely fascinated by the story of
this film. I'm a big fan of Planet of the Apes and to get to see its
origins is really great. Out of the entire series of movies, I think
this one truly is the best. It was just absolutely spectacular! The
actors delivered fine performances for their well developed characters;
the writers, Rick Jaffa and Amanda Silver, didn't miss a beat with
their fantastic and intelligent script; and the story was compelling,
exciting and emotionally touching.

The star of the film is an ape named Caesar (whose emotions were
brought to life brilliantly by Andy Serkis) who is the baby of an ape
that was tested on for scientist Will Rodman's (James Franco) research
in an effort that resulted in a way for the brain to heal itself, and
what could possibly be the cure for Alzheimer's; a disease very
personal for him because his father (John Lithgow) suffers from it --
even though Rodman is warned not to let personal issues get in the way
of science. The drug also had another affect... it lead to the
development of intelligence in apes. As Caesar grows older and smarter,
though, he becomes more aware, questioning who and what he is. It is
during an incident that causes Caesar to be separated from Will, in a
feeling of abandonment, and then being mistreated by Dodge Landon (Tom
Felton) at a shelter that ultimately leads to a hurt and confused
Caesar plotting for revenge.. what becomes a war for primacy.

Unlike the Planet of the Apes films from the past, this one did not
have people running around in ape suits but instead presented us with
CGI primates, emotional performances captured from actors. If I hadn't
known it were CGI, though, I would have sworn that they were real apes.
They were brilliant! Director Rupert Wyatt did a wonderful job of
connecting this prequel to the first film, really catching every little
detail and even littered respectful homages to the original throughout
the entire film. Honestly, I just loved finding out what lead to the
great ape takeover. And as I mentioned before, the script was just
wonderful and made for a thought provoking and emotionally driven
thrill ride!
<|_=00=_|>
Summer 2011 will go down in history as one of the more disappointing
seasons in many years when it comes to movies. This is the time of year
that people rush out in masses to see the latest action extravaganza,
and to be fair, some films have delivered on that promise -- "Harry
Potter," "Captain America" (though I have yet to see either of them and
am simply relying on general reactions) -- but there's been a whole lot
of disappointments, too, and the worst part is that people still seem
to be flocking to them, almost out of necessity than wont
("Transformers 3" and "Pirates 4" both made over $1 bil worldwide,
which is amazing, because they both sucked).

I think the last film anyone expected to reverse the trend this summer
was a prequel to a franchise that has been consistently poor over the
years since its original incarnation in 1968. Indeed, the first trailer
for "Rise of the Planet of the Apes" focused on ape carnage and mayhem,
and although a subsequent one highlighted the dramatic underpinning of
the film, it seemed like Fox was just trying to turn around its
marketing and fool people into thinking there was more than meets the
eye.

Alas, the second trailer turned out to be a far more accurate
reflection of the movie than anyone would have expected. "Rise of the
Apes" is most likely the best film of the blockbuster season, full of
heart, carefully crafted and professionally delivered on every level.

Sure, the story has its fair share of clichés -- the "evil caretakers"
played by Brian Cox and Tom Felton seem bad just because the film
requires them to be, and Felton's performance in particular is so
over-the-top that it's almost a caricature -- but because of how the
film is packaged, and because it spends so much time focusing on the
character of Caesar (played magnificently by Andy Serkis), you are
willing to overlook many of the flaws. You care about the characters
and the story, even when you kinda know where it's headed and feel like
it's a variation of a prison break-out movie with apes in place of
humans.

The human cast, as has been noted by many critics, is nothing to write
home about. James Franco doesn't exactly phone in his performance but
it's not the sort of role that is going to be lining him up for any
awards. Toby Maguire was originally lined up for the project before he
was dropped (he reportedly came to Fox with script notes, and they
promptly cut off discussions with him), but Franco does seem a more
natural fit, and does well enough in a role destined to be sidelined by
the apes.

And the apes are awesome. No, we haven't quite mastered fully realistic
CGI yet -- especially when it's mixed with live actors. (WETA claims
that the technology here is superior to "Avatar," but it's not as
convincing, perhaps because the CGI so rarely interacted with human
actors in "Avatar," and thus we were able to accept the fantasy world
more willingly.) However, this is some of the best seen to date. Serkis
(who previously played King Kong in Peter Jackson's remake) translates
a brilliant performance, for which the film owes a great deal; Caesar
is really the crux of the whole thing, and a poor or less realistic
performance would have undermined the whole thing. It's the subtle
stuff here that makes a difference -- the emotions captured in Caesar's
facial expressions, or the glint of sympathy in his eyes when John
Lithgow's character begins to suffer from Alzheimer's. There's a moment
of genius in that particular scene where Caesar exchanges a sad,
knowing glance with Franco's character, and it's eerily touching.

Director Rupert Wyatt follows blockbuster blueprints from beginning to
end, but by enriching the first three-quarters of his film with
character development and an actual *story* (something so many
blockbusters these days seem to be sorely lacking), when the big action
sequence arrives at the end, you're invested in what's happening -- and
you actually care.

I confess to never having watched many of the "Apes" films. I do recall
seeing the Tim Burton remake in theaters a decade ago, and even as a
12-year-old kid, I thought, Wow, this sucks. "Rise" is infinitely
better, more creative and more emotionally stirring -- as
aforementioned, it's nothing completely unique or novel from a
storytelling standpoint, but it's well-crafted in an old-fashioned,
refreshingly familiar way, and the addition of groundbreaking CGI makes
it a "must-see" rather than something to catch on television. Fox isn't
known for pleasing fans with their remakes and sequels (whether it be
Die Hard or Wolverine), but Summer 2011 sees two of their biggest
properties successfully reinvigorated: first "X-Men First Class," and
now this. For my money, "Apes" is better -- perhaps the best
blockbuster of the season -- which I never in a million years expected
to say.

Without spoiling anything, the film sets itself up for a sequel.
Considering it's on track to smash expectations and take in $55 mil
this weekend alone, it's pretty much a sure-thing that it will happen.
Hopefully the follow-up takes heed of this film's strengths and doesn't
abandon the character development in favor of boisterous action
sequences. The fact that audiences are reacting strongly to this movie
is an indication of what's been lacking all summer: stories with
characters we care about. Go see this if you want to end a
disappointing summer on a positive note.
<|_=00=_|>
Disaster movies are a dime a dozen now a days. We have seen an influx
of Alien takeovers recently and it is getting a bit stale I must admit.
Don't get me wrong, I love films about ET's taking over, but Hollywood
has beaten that horse to death. "Rise of the Planet of the Apes" is a
welcome change to this trend pitting us measly humans against our
closest ancestors, Great Apes. Directed by Rupert Wyatt ("The
Escapist") and supported by the unbelievable WETA Digital ("King Kong",
"Lord of the Rings", "Avatar") for special effects. "Apes" is a wonder
of motion capture, an intelligent heart felt script with great
direction. Unfortunately, the human actors left a lot to be desired.
But this film isn't about the humans, it's all about the Simians.

As plots go, this is pretty basic. James Franco plays Will Rodman, a
brilliant scientist with a breakthrough drug that just may cure
Alzheimer's. Rodman and his team are using chimpanzee's to test this
new drug and in the process find out that it increases intelligence as
well as repair cells in the brain. One of the test subjects gets loose
in an intense sequence and ultimately put down. It turns out that she
had just given birth to a beautiful baby chimp who inherited this new
"altered" gene. Rodman decides the only moral thing to do is to take
the baby home while a co-worker tries to find a sanctuary but once
Rodman finds out that this little ball of fur has the intelligence of a
human child twice it's age he decides to keep and raise the chimp as a
child. It's only a matter of time that our chimp Caesar figures out he
is not like the other children in the neighborhood. Rodman is forced to
give up Caesar to an "Ape Sanctuary" and there begins some of the most
exhilarating revolutionary action I've ever seen.

Technically, this film is massive. The work WETA Digital did with
motion capture (mo-cap) is truly a wonder to behold. Visual Effects
Supervisor with WETA Digital Joe Letteri stated that they built on the
technology used in "Avatar" to produce the most realistic and accurate
portrayal of the actors suited to play the Simians. Andy Serkis (Gollum
from "Lord of the Rings" and Kong from "King Kong") plays chimp Caesar.
Serkis manages to fool all of us into believing he is a real animal
with super intelligence. His facial emotions and mannerisms should most
certainly nominate him for an Oscar. There is a real connection that
the audience feels with Caesar and it is all thanks to Serkis' work.
Without such an experienced mo-cap actor, this film would not have been
such a success.

Not only is the technology used to create the revolution amazing, the
action is top notch as well. Many times I found myself with my jaw on
the floor from the intense sequences put to screen. Everything from a
simple terrifying look from an angry ape to the full out battle on the
Golden Gate Bridge was pulled off without a hitch. Many points to the
pacing of the films action as it could have been the crutch that killed
this beast of a film. One of the most amazing scenes in my opinion is
when a group of apes are fleeing over top a suburban neighborhood
through the trees. While this is going on we see some people on the
street while leaves upon leaves are falling to the ground. This level
of detail is apparent in every shot, brilliant work by the production
team.

My only problems with this film is the acting from Franco and Freida
Pinto, who plays the love interest. They both seemed to "phone it in"
as it were. They were not overly impressive and just seemed stale.
Maybe the director wanted them to tone it down so that Serkis would
have more of an impact acting as a voiceless chimp. Either way, as I
said in the beginning, this film wasn't about the humans. It's about
compassion, freedom and understanding and on those levels the film is a
grand success.
<|_=00=_|>
To begin on a tangent before evaluating the film, before summer 2011, I
had not seen a decent prequel film. Prequels to films are often made
when there is either a rich back story behind the originals or the
producers are wanting a little more money from a particular franchise
(see the Star Wars prequels). The problem they present is that film-
makers have to construct their work, with the knowledge that the
audience knows how it ends. One of the greatest things about seeing a
film for the first time is the surprise and anticipation, to removing
that can detract a lot from the overall impact of the film. But this
summer I have had the pleasure of seeing X-men First Class, and now
Rise of the Planet of the Apes - two excellent prequels to series that
I didn't care for previously.

Rise of the Planet of the Apes (RPA from now on, I can't bear typing
it) is not only a triumph in CG animation, but as a stellar science
fiction film, that remembers that films are infinitely more engaging
when the audience actually cares for the characters on screen. Too
often do I see films with a high premise that forget to flesh out their
characters, leaving us to run around in mindless, weightless explosions
with nobodies who we know less than 3 things about (cough, Transformers
3). Yes, RPA is about super intelligent apes that ransack cities and
take on armed forces with little more than what surrounds them, but
before we get to that there is an enormous amount of development from
the main protagonist; Caesar. Although the advertisement trumpets James
Franco, John Lithgow etc, the real star here is Andy Serkis, along with
millions of dollars worth of CG animation to create the most expressive
animated creatures on film. Even with Avatar, using real humans, pales
in comparison to the amount of detail going into every single one of
these apes; there is not one second in the film where you cannot
understand one of the primates intentions - you could practically
vocalise them yourself with the refined eye movement, body language
that clearly separates Caesar from his more primitive relatives.
Needless to say, Caesar's performance is flawless; after all this is
the man who brought Gollum to life, but he captures the screen with an
entirely wordless performance, which to me is the greatest part of the
film. I felt for Caesar more than any other character in this film, and
he did it without saying a word. Eat that Michael Bay. I was almost in
tears at one point during one of Caesar's more emotional scenes for
Christ Sake - although a chimp, the heightened intelligence really
gives him just enough human characteristic to be above the uncanny
valley while still behaving like an animal.

The humans in the film were what I considered weakest in this film; not
any of the performances were bad, but a little more development in some
minor characters and some tweak in the writing here and there would
have made this a perfect 10. Tom Felton (Draco Malfoy) felt a bit off
to me; he was cruel but almost in a cartoon way, though I suspect
that's more to do with ill writing than any personal issues. The main
cast are good, though at it's current length, I think more development
with James Franco's character wouldn't have gone amiss, but then again,
this might have thrown off the pacing.

Another thing I love about this film is that while taking a sharp
diversion from its roots in terms of gradual characterisation, it does
a superb job of delivering what everyone inevitably came for. A massive
Chimpocalypse. A simian uprising that sees the downtrodden apes taking
up arms against humanity, and in three words: it's f - ing cool. Made
all the more exciting by the anticipation and the feel for these
characters, the marvellous point about Caesar's character is that we
sympathise with him, we understand why he leads an ape army AND WE
SUPPORT HIM. A super intelligent ape is rallying a chimp attack force
to free themselves from their confines, cause mayhem, disrupt order and
ultimately rule humanity AND WE WANT THEM TO. And for that I applaud.

I love a film that makes us look inwards at ourselves and question our
own moral codes and attitudes to events in life (this one clearly
representing a case of animal cruelty) that make us conclude that WE
are indeed the bad guys, and we need to change. Living in a small,
rural middle-class society (like myself) or a well-developed area often
makes mainstream audiences forget about those less fortunate than
themselves, and what it drives them to, or in this case, what having
too much drives us to, and it's refreshing to see something that
reminds us of how much of a plague we are to the rest of the planet.

Overall, I would say a strong 9/10, perhaps not quite reaching the
highs that First Class did, but by God, was it more consistent -
definitely watch this one, and stay after the credits.
