
It's hard to believe that the same talented director who made the
influential cult action classic The Road Warrior had anything to do
with this disaster.

Road Warrior was raw, gritty, violent and uncompromising, and this
movie is the exact opposite. It's like Road Warrior for kids who need
constant action in their movies.

This is the movie. The good guys get into a fight with the bad guys,
outrun them, they break down in their vehicle and fix it. Rinse and
repeat. The second half of the movie is the first half again just done
faster.

The Road Warrior may have been a simple premise but it made you feel
something, even with it's opening narration before any action was even
shown. And the supporting characters were given just enough time for
each of them to be likable or relatable.

In this movie there is absolutely nothing and no one to care about.
We're supposed to care about the characters because... well we should.
George Miller just wants us to, and in one of the most cringe worthy
moments Charlize Theron's character breaks down while dramatic music
plays to try desperately to make us care.

Tom Hardy is pathetic as Max. One of the dullest leading men I've seen
in a long time. There's not one single moment throughout the entire
movie where he comes anywhere near reaching the same level of charisma
Mel Gibson did in the role. Gibson made more of an impression just
eating a tin of dog food. I'm still confused as to what accent Hardy
was even trying to do.

I was amazed that Max has now become a cartoon character as well.
Gibson's Max was a semi-realistic tough guy who hurt, bled, and nearly
died several times. Now he survives car crashes and tornadoes with
ease? 

In the previous movies, fuel and guns and bullets were rare. Not
anymore. It doesn't even seem Post-Apocalyptic. There's no sense of
desperation anymore and everything is too glossy looking. And the main
villain's super model looking wives with their perfect skin are about
as convincing as apocalyptic survivors as Hardy's Australian accent is.
They're so boring and one-dimensional, George Miller could have
combined them all into one character and you wouldn't miss anyone.

Some of the green screen is very obvious and fake looking, and the CGI
sandstorm is laughably bad. It wouldn't look out of place in a Pixar
movie. In the previous movies, there was occasionally a sped up frame
rate that gave a nice homage to the silent era. Now,Miller has gone
full Looney Toons and sped up the majority of the action, making many
of the real stunts redundant. They're too fast to fully enjoy. 

There's no tension, no real struggle, or any real dirt and grit that
Road Warrior had. Everything George Miller got right with that
masterpiece he gets completely wrong here.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not completely sure what I was expecting from Fury Road, but it was
more than this. This is the latest example of Hollywood rehashing a
successful and good movie franchise solely for profit. It's mindless,
repetitive action sequences melded between horrible acting and overused
clichés.

One of the allures of this series is seeing the outlandish road
vehicles that are used, and in this the movie mostly delivers. You have
the high-powered Warrior Rig driven by Furiosa. There's battle vehicles
equipped with spikes, rigs with counter-balanced poles for launching
warriors into other vehicles, and there's even a vehicle equipped with
large bass drums and a stack of speakers that would make KISS jealous
with a psychotic guitarist wailing away for our musical enjoyment. And
of course, each vehicle comes equipped with more explosive arsenal than
a battle ship. And it's put to good use.

However, once you get past the eye candy, you realize there's nothing
else to it. The story is weak. The characters are weaker. And the
acting is the worst. The movie never drew me in. Not even close.
Whenever the movie 'tried' to add depth and be dramatic, it was painful
and embarrassing to watch. The scene where Furiosa reacts to finding
out her birth home is gone by taking off her prosthetic arm and
dropping down to her knees may be the worst movie scene I've ever
watched. And it says something when the most interesting character is
Nux, a relentless slave/warrior who actually has a mind of his own and
decides to help Max and Furiosa in their quest. Of course, one of
Immortan Joe's wives falls for him, representing one of the many poorly
executed clichés this movie is riddled with.

I can watch a superficial action movie and enjoy it for what it is, to
a point. This one, however, is just generally so poorly executed that
it leaves a lot to be desired. I didn't hate it, but I have absolutely
no desire to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, this is another movie in which the action sequences last so
long that you can go to the bathroom, get a soda, come back and still
find the same people fighting the same fights you saw begin 15 minutes
earlier. Personally, these type of action movies bore me to tears,
because the story has to stop moving every time we watch one of these
extended action sequences. In terms of story, the good guys and the bad
guys meeting is a plot point. Then they fight, then one of them wins.
As an audience member, I'm ready to know who wins as soon as they start
fighting. And I really need the lead characters to have some logical
reasons for doing what they are doing. 

Here's my spoiler: They drive away from someplace for half the movie
and then decide to turn around and go back. The only thing that
happened was that they picked up a gang of old ladies. That's as deep
as it gets right there. They're running away, fighting the whole way,
they get away and then they decide to go back, so they have to fight
the whole way. Nothing makes much sense, no characters are anything but
as shallow as they could have possibly been made. If you like Avatar,
you'll like this movie. If you liked Mad Max and Road Warrior, you're
going to be angry about how that franchise was exploited in name and
setting only. 

This character isn't Mad Max. He doesn't have a dog, he doesn't eat dog
food, he doesn't eat anything. Nobody in the film ever eats anything.
Nor are people clamoring for gasoline, they all just seem to have it.
There's an issue with water, but it makes no sense and the entire weak
plot seems to depend on it. The movie ends with giant water valves
being opened just like the air valves on Mars get turned on in the end
of that Governor Arnold movie, I can't remember the name. The reviews
calling this something new and different are absolute hogwash. This is
nothing but things blowing up and cars crashing for two hours, which,
by the way, is another egregious offense of these silly movies. They
take a 90 minute movie with a great story line, and they strip it of
plot and somehow extend it by 30 minutes. It's a scary trend, the kind
of thing that makes one think Idiocracy was prophetic. The less the
story and the more things blow up, the higher the ratings. Ridiculous!
<|_=00=_|>
It's troubling that a movie can be singularly focused on loud
explosions and violence with no plot, dialogue, or character
development, yet receive widespread critical acclaim. This is the first
film I've ever seen that actually reminded me of the type the populace
in Idiocracy would find enthralling. 

To be clear, there are no redeeming qualities about this film. None.
And I went in with pretty low expectations, figuring this would be some
fun, mindless entertainment i.e The Expendables or any Jason Statham
movie. The first few minutes weren't too bad: it looked cheesy, but it
had potential. But then I realized that this movie is one long (boring)
car chase...and that's it. Really. I mean it really was boring --
exactly what an action movie should not be. The car chases are all one
and the same. After a few minutes, it just isn't exciting.

There is no story. The two leads drive to the middle of nowhere, then
turn around. That's it. Two of the characters mention they are "looking
for redemption" or some other trite nonsense, but the audience is never
told why. Not that they'd care. Is the story about survival? At first
you'd think so. Max mentions in the opening credits that he is a man
reduced to one trait: survival. Yet at the film's end, when he finally
has an opportunity to survive....he chooses not to? What? The movie was
bad enough until this. Actually I forgot, there is an incredibly forced
romance between two side characters that does nothing to further the
story. This is a B movie with a big budget.

Likewise, there is essentially no dialogue, save a few grunts from Max
and cringe-inducingly awkward lines from the rest. 

There isn't any character development, but then again, the characters
themselves resemble video game characters. There are no characters to
develop, just two-dimensional avatars used for an excuse to show
explosions. 

So what is this film's targeted demographic? I'm not sure. I can
imagine that if you are a 13-year old boy, really into
cars/trucks/slipknot, pretty redneck, and probably a little slow, this
movie may seem pretty cool. I mean it does have ridiculous cars/trucks
outfitted with lots of weapons, spikes, flame-exhausts, (breast-milk?)
and guys playing "cool" guitar riffs for no apparent reason. There's
also lots of explosions and fighting. And scantily clad women. And
tornadoes. And skulls. On top of all that, there is no need to pay
attention to petty plot lines or dialogue in order to enjoy the film.
Hell once they reach the desert, the movie repeats itself as the leads
drive the truck back through the same place being chased by the same
guys for no discernible reason. 

The special effects aren't even that good. The whole movie looks fake.
I know they went to great measures to avoid using CGI, but honestly, I
thought I'd at least be impressed by the special effects, since clearly
nothing was spent on anything else. And I'm not the kind of person who
usually notices when CGI is used or not. 

Truly awful. I would rate it lower if I could. The only recent movie
that may have actually been worse that this was Lucy, which was also
mind-numbingly stupid. 

As the principal in Billy Madison once said, "everyone in this room is
now dumber for having (watched) it." AVOID
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe why people like this movie unless you're a fan of
no-brainer action-packed movies without a story. 2 hours of non stop
rubbish without dialogue. I was a fan of the original Mad Max and at
first Tom Hardy seemed like a great actor for the role, but this movie
didn't do him justice. He did well as Bane but he wasn't the star in
this movie, almost like a support character. I almost fell asleep and
left the theater because I can find better ways to waste my time. The
only positive thing I can say is that the world looks great as well as
the props. Good job on that George Miller. At least there's something
good about it. The trailer was promising and since many people praised
this movie, I gave it a shot. How can you watch this for a second time
"to indulge in the deep content and story it provides". There was
absolutely nothing in there. Yes beautiful woman, owned by a dictator
who holds all the water and controls the people. Let's escape, make a
diversion, trap him, beat the living hell out of him and return to be
happily accepted as the new rulers. Hurray.
<|_=00=_|>
Absolute rubbish. This movie caters to 13-year olds (sorry 13-y olds,
no offense). Skulls on the cars - cool (sorry, the correct spelling is
KOOL)! Skull on the steering wheel - KOOL! Ordinary spears causing
explosions every time they hit something - KOOL! Silly masks just for
the sake of being silly - KOOL! Guy playing a flame-throwing guitar on
a truck while chasing and everybody shooting - KOOL! Explosion - KOOL!
Another explosion 1 sec later KOOL!!! And another one another second
later - SUPER KOOL! You get the picture...

I walked out after 1hr 15min. Where to begin...? There was no sense in
anything characters did. No character was likable, nobody to root for,
no character to care for. They are all morons that can't speak English.
Max (was it?) points to the cutter, then to the chain, then he grunts.
How about saying "You, Blondie! Get those cutters over here and cut
this chain!" There is NO SENSE in anything! First, they chase and
capture this guy. Then they chain him to the front of the car while
engaging in a deadly chase. When he finally breaks free, you would
think he would make immediate allies with Charlize's characters as they
seem to have the same enemy. But no! They fight and growl at each
other. Then one of the girls who was running away from the bad guy
wants all of a sudden to go back. Then they make friends with the
silver-spray-mouth zombie/albino who was chasing them and trying to
kill Furiosa! Yeah, poor thing had a rough childhood! I was bored to
tears and upset that I paid for this piece of crap. When I walked out,
it felt like I was under the water drowning and finally got to breath
some air!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the original mad max... it was violent, it had car battles, it
had minimal character development. I had very realistic expectations
going into the theater to see this new version.

Never have I been more disappointed with a movie. The acting on both
leads parts was mediocre at best, with the male lead switching from
being well spoken to being capable of nothing but grunting.. 

The story line seems to have been written and edited by remedial
English students, the characters are unbelievable and seriously lack
any character development, it has horrible motorcycle stunts... and
guys bouncing back and forth on poles of all things.

and come on.. a flame-throwing guitar and fat women being milked for no
explained reason to trade for gasoline to power the flame throwing
guitar?... it's full of shitty clichés... badly cut scenes.. and lots
of explosions. 

Save your money see anything else and you will be better off.
<|_=00=_|>
An action essential through and through, it's plain and simple! Since
the days of 'Die Hard' and 'Terminator', the action genre has turned
into a repetitive, over-the-top array of films trying too hard to
create entertaining sequences that instead look too cheesy due to bad
composition or an overuse of CGI, of course along the way we have had
some fine exceptions in the style of 'Casino Royale' and 'The Dark
Knight', but certain directors *cough* Michael Bay... don't seem to be
able to use their knowledge of an action sequence to its full potential
and instead have constant fiery explosions and over-the-top shaky
camera-work among other things... oh but then there's 'Mad Max: Fury
Road', talk about epic action pieces. It has been 30 years since the
release of 'Beyond Thunderdome' back in 1985, and George Miller decided
to return to the directorial chair for a Mad Max reboot, and my God, he
truly is a mastermind of action. After creating the epic scale of an
action film in the form of 'Mad Max: The Road Warrior' it was going to
be hard to live up to the previous films in the franchise, but Miller
didn't just do that, he excelled at it and instead beat his previous
films. With Tom Hardy as the new face of Max and Namibia as the new
backdrop for post- apocalyptic Australia, 'Fury Road' is an
exhilarating action fest that goes beyond its boundaries in creating
what might just be one of the greatest action films ever made. Hearing
that nearly 90% of the stunts and effects were practical literally blew
me away, the sequences are extravagant and complex with frequent
fireballs and car crashes filling the screen. George Miller's 2015
vigorous tale blends emotion and brutality with drama and action to
reignite Australia's greatest film franchise and create the epitome of
the action genre.
<|_=00=_|>
if you wanna go and see this movie, please expect nothing but
frustrating, dazing, predictable outcome action, and then just when you
think the movie is ending you get an extra 30-45 minutes of the same
action same explosions, same cars and faces doing the same thing they
did during the whole first half of the movie. Do not expect any
engaging drama or any plot of any kind, but here's the story: post
apocalypse, no water (yet there are hundreds of people alive and
working), no fuel (yet they all have it in their vehicles), women
escaping  women returning back the same day. What a plot! Visually it
was stunning, but that's all you get.
<|_=00=_|>
Mad Max Fury Road is George Miller's return to the franchise he started
way back in 1979 with Mad Max. I will start by saying this movie was
absolutely batsh** insane. It was filled right to the brim with
continuous over the top bloody ridiculous action sequences that keep
you on the edge of the seat and just amazed at what Is happening on
screen. Now this film doesn't have much of a plot at all but seriously
you're not going into this film for an intense plot, this is a film
that almost didn't even need one at all. The one thing I was worried
about going in was whether I needed to have seen the previous films to
understand this one and thankfully you don't, the story is independent
of the previous film which was really helpful. 

The characters were all awesome and it did an amazing job to introduce
them all almost instantly and get right into the action. Max (Tom
Hardy? and Furiosa (Charlize Theron) were were great and extremely
likable characters. Even the villain who I will just call Sweet Tooth
was so great, he wasn't anything too special but was a great threat
throughout the film. 

I just absolutely loved this movie, intense action from start to finish
and didn't slow down at all, that made it ridiculously fun to watch.
The great characters and the performances are awesome on screen and
we're always interesting to watch. If there was ever a Twisted Metal
movie, this is what it would be. Nothing really let the film down and
everything really worked, such a great time and the best cinema
experience this year so far. - 10
