
Maybe it's because M Night Shyamalan is finally coming to terms that he
no longer is the toast of the town, that he has decided to focus his
energies on producing and writing suspenseful thrillers for his project
known as The Night Chronicles, with the first film Devil off the
blocks, and others to come including his original story idea from his
planned sequel to Unbreakable. We know how Shyamalan of late likes to
direct and include himself as one amongst the cast, though this time it
probably took a lot of effort to vacate that director's chair and quash
that acting bug, to allow someone else to helm what is essentially a
film that's right up Shyamalan's own territory. It's almost like
putting a candy jar in front of a kid, but not allowing him access at
all.

Enter directors Drew and John Erick Dowdle, who I thought made a decent
effort in bringing to life Shyamalan's story set around the confines of
a claustrophobic lift, where five strangers happen to be at the wrong
place at the wrong time, each of them being trapped inside the lift and
sharing some common traits that will be revealed as the story wore on.
The film addresses the notion that nothing is ever coincidental,
especially if powerful negative forces like the devil decide to walk
the earth and claim a few souls, while at the same time having fun
toying with their prey. Weaving in a folk tale like what he did for
Lady in the Water, Shyamalan's tale here involves the full works of how
the devil operates, and comes with a method to defeat the supernatural
forces seen in the film.

The directors managed to steer clear of the usual clich√©s for a fright
fest, and rightly so as well because this is not that film. Granted
that there are a few well crafted scenes to suggest that there are
spiritual elements involved in how the victims - a mechanic (Logan
Marshall- Green), an old woman (Jenny O'Hara), a young woman (Bojana
Novakovic), a guard (Bokeem Woodbine) and a salesman (Geoffrey Arend) -
the real draw is how visually arresting this film is in capturing fear
from within close quarters. The opening sweeping shot of the city of
Philadelphia upside down will bring about some disorientation, before
reducing that spatial distance down to within the lift, mirroring that
view through a CCTV camera back to the building's security control
room, which to me is where some of the best instances of the film
shines through.

I'd actually preferred what went on outside of that lift, since what's
going to happen within is more like a done deal, with one of the five
already revealed through marketing that he/she is someone who doesn't
belong. There's more fun in following Detective Bowden (Chris Messina),
who has to make sense of what's going on, balancing his deductive
prowess against something that cannot be explained by logic, and
watching how his due diligence and process get blown to smithereens
when at first he thinks this is a simple open and shut situation, until
he realizes that he's up against something that's inexplicable. It's
one thing to swagger in with a plan, before fear sets in that one can
be so helpless when trying to save the lives of others.

The strength of the film lies in Shyamalan's story, which is
deceptively simple, yet highly effective in weaving all the plot
threads together, and the linking up of the characters so crucial in
providing a satisfying finale. Fans of Shyamalan's stories will find
that he still has more than enough gas in the tank to come up with
suspenseful tales that others now have a chance to helm on the big
screen, something like what Luc Besson does these days. My interest is
now piqued to see how the rest of the Chronicles will present
themselves.
<|_=00=_|>
This film had a lot of bad rep. Everyone kept saying it was going to be
horrible. However, I still went to see it, as the story and the concept
interested me.

Now, in my opinion, the film is right up there with The Sixth Sense.
It's engaging, keeps you guessing, and you leave feeling like you just
saw a darn good movie. 

The film doesn't rely on gore heavily. Instead, the film wants you to
guess just who is the devil in that elevator. The story is fresh and
makes a clear connection between all characters.

The bottom line is-- sure, it's not the best film ever, but it is a
pretty darn good one. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed the cinematography. Especially the opening scenes and the
scenes inside the elevator shaft. The music was typical string
instruments going back and forth... could have been more eerie and
composed with more feeling.

I was pretty shocked to be sitting in an empty theater on opening
night. Guess MNS has sort of blown his reputation.

I didn't try to guess the ending, I decided to just enjoy the ride. It
did end rather abruptly, as if it was a TV show that had to end by a
certain time. They could have fleshed out certain scenes longer and
made a more comprehensive experience.

I went to see this alone as nobody I knew was interested... I'm glad I
went, it was enjoyable, more so than I expected it to be.
<|_=00=_|>
I know this was "from the mind of Manoj Night Shyamalan" and it was
riding on a wave of pretty bad press, but strangely enough, I found the
movie to be pretty good.

This movie delivered what it promised, a solid taut thriller which can
keep one on the edge of the seat for the optimum 1 hour and 20 minutes
of running time. The acting was surprisingly consistent and good
throughout by all the actors involved (tough for a low budgeter to
achieve), the screenplay didn't indulge in unnecessary Boo moments to
propel things forward, the script was solid and everything tied up well
at the end.

I mean cmon critics, for once please give Shyamalan a break! Far better
return on my money than the steaming goo pile called the "Due Date".
<|_=00=_|>
M. Night Shyamalan is one of those love him or hate him directors for
whom there's no middle ground, so it hasn't helped that he's given his
detractors a lot to crow about with his recent downward spiral with
successively poor to abysmal movies ranging from The Lady in the Water
to 2010's biggest stinker, The Last Airbender. It's been a critical
pile-on for the one time golden boy who wowed audiences and critics
alike with The Sixth Sense and Unbreakable.

Things have gotten so bad that when the trailer for Devil hit theatres
with the on-screen tag line "From the Mind of M. Night Shyamalan",
guffaws were reported from audiences and on-line gadflies like Perez
Hilton had a field day posting viral videos mocking the promos.

All of which is too bad because not only is Devil a compelling,
riveting bit of movie making, but Shyamalan's involvement was limited
to writing the story and co-producing, which, given his recent track
record, was probably for the best.

Smartly directed by John Erick Dowdle, whose last effort was
Quarantine, the equally tight and faithful remake of the Spanish horror
REC, Devil marks the first instalment in a trilogy of films dubbed The
Night Chronicles, which revolve around the supernatural in modern urban
settings (the second film is tentatively titled Reincarnate, about the
jurors of a murder trial who are haunted by a supernatural being, and
Unbreakable 2 rumoured as the third instalment).

In Devil's case, the plot could easily function as a textbook case of
film school 101, tasking a writer and director to fashion a small
story, restricted in scope, set in the cramped environment of a stalled
elevator. You can almost hear film school professors saying "if you can
pull this off, you can do anything". Happily, Dowdle succeeds with
flying colours.

Devil is as compelling as the story is confined. It's smart from
beginning to end, almost like the hybrid elevator equivalent of
Hitchcock's Lifeboat and Agatha Christie's Ten Little Indians. A
disparate group boards a Philadelphia office tower elevator, only to
become trapped between floors and mortally victimized by someone among
them who clearly possesses supernatural ability every time the lights
flicker and momentarily go out.

Don't look for spoilers here as I won't be providing any. Suffice to
say that Devil is one of the most smartly written, acted, and directed
films I've had the pleasure to enjoy this year.

Who knows, maybe this is the beginning of Shyamalan's road back to
respectability. If nothing else, it shows that he still has the chops
as a top notch story teller.
<|_=00=_|>
I say Night Syamalan is back with a bang. After watching 'The last
Airbender', I took a pledge that would be the last time I'm ever gonna
pay to watch any movie, Night Syamalan is involved in. But today I
broke my promise as I watched 'Devil'. And actually, I was not at all
disappointed. In fact, I liked it. All right, I would say it...I loved
this movie.

Night Syamalan has come up with a strong and interesting story. The
plot looks so simple at the beginning, but it moves on, suspense
unveils in a scary, yet logical fashion. The linking between all
characters is portrayed in a very effective way. Nothing is ever a
coincidence.

Direction is good. Acting is decent. Cinematography is appreciable,
especially the wide variety of camera angles and frames attempted to
portray a simple elevator as some claustrophobic scary machine. Sound
effects are captivating.

I'm already waiting for the next 'Night' chronicle!
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this was a really good movie, it definitely kept you guessing
until the end.

Should have been longer though, it ended very suddenly. Would have been
an excellent movie if it would have lengthened a bit. Although it had
the drawback of being more like a short story it was definitely a movie
worth watching. The special effects were really good and the story line
was great. I would recommend everyone give it a chance.

This was definitely one of the better movies he has directed. The music
could have been a little more eerie though.

After going to watch the last exorcism, I started to give up on the
horror movies. I'm glad I went and seen this one. It was not
disappointing.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me first start off by saying that I am in no shape, way or form a
fan of M. Night Shylaman. From the get go with sixth sense I called
that twist ending in the film;s first ten minutes and what remained for
me was highly over rated. He followed that up the unintentionally
laughable Unbreakable, and than with signs which was overly generic but
executed well. Than came the questionable attempt lady in the water,
the mega let down but nicely executed village and finally the big kick
in the face the happening. Without a doubt one of the worst films ever
made. But he should not be a deciding factor when it comes to this film
because he's only come up with the story outline and he produced under
his new production company. The main people responsible for this film
are Brian Nelson who write the brilliant Hard Candy and John Erick
Dowdle of The Poughkeepsie Tapes and Quarantine. So with that combo I
had some expectations going in and the stylish and effective trailer
and TV spots had spiked my interest to say the least. And here's what I
thought. It just blew me away. This tightly executed psychological
horror thriller left me speechless. From the opening credits which
feature a reverse Philadelphia and an astounding classic thriller score
I was intrigued. And as the film introduced it's story line and
characters I became completely engaged. And as the film moved into it's
main agenda I was on the edge of my seat with ample anticipation. And
the finale well I'll just keep my mouth shut. But here's what I have to
say with solid performances, suspenseful pacing, a clever and original
story line and really good direction Devil is without a doubt one of
the most effective genre pieces to come out in some time. Like it's
characters you are held captive for it's entire running time. It's one
of those classic suspense thrillers thats character based and just
keeps working its angles and keeps you guessing until the very end.
Sadly the movie is not without flaws but you should know to truly enjoy
it you must succumb to the goofiness of its plot and some of the scenes
that need to be inserted to move the film along. That being said what
remains is a nifty, clever, sweaty palm inducing, intelligent exercise
in fear and hysteria well worth the price of admission.
<|_=00=_|>
Ah, good ol' M. Night Shamalamadingdong, as I like to call him. I feel
so bad for this guy, when he created The Sixth Sense, he made one of
the best thrillers of all time with a twist ending that set the bar so
high that others would always try to succeed it. Ever since then,
Shamalamadingdong has been trying to outdo himself with a ton of twist
endings and scripts that my Pomeranian could write. When I saw the
trailer for Devil, I got excited because it looked really creepy, then
I saw the director's name and just sighed, it's pretty much likely that
the movie will flop and will be horrible. I just caught it on a movie
channel, actually I have to give Shamalamadingdong some credit, this is
an improvement over his last films. However, it's still one of the most
ridicules movies I have ever seen.

Five strangers board an elevator, which becomes stuck between floors
just shortly after starting up to the upper floors. The five don't
introduce themselves right away, but when security finds them, they
notice that other than the CCTV and a radio which they can communicate
into the elevator. Lustig, the head of security, sends repair
technician Dwight to investigate the elevators while Bowden tries to
ascertain the identities of the individuals. Things turn from strange
to frightening when there is a freak power outage in the elevator, and
the girl in the elevator is wounded with what appears to be a bite.
Dwight attempts to rappel down the elevator shaft via a pulley to try
and fix the elevator, but security guard Ramirez says that the Devil
would stop any attempts to help his victims as more supernatural things
occur; this proves there is a demonic entity in the elevator haunting
the passengers.

There's this line that nearly killed me with laughter, the religious
nut Ramirez says that everything goes wrong when the devil is near, he
throws a piece of pizza and it lands on the cheese side and says that
the jelly side always lands up, oh, my God, seriously?! So all those
times I was cooking in the kitchen when my chicken burned, it was the
devil! All those times I fell down, it was the work of the devil! How
could you ever take that line seriously? I also was watching the movie
with my friends and once again we took the classic bet 10 dollars for
who would guess the devil, I won, again! My opinion is, a lot of old
people are the devil, they cling onto the god skirt later in life
claiming that it's because they are about to die and they need to get
into heaven, no! They are covering something else! I digress, anyways,
when the devil reveals herself, the guy that she's after confesses to
his sin and she's like "damn, I really wanted you"¬Ö.really? You went
through all this trouble and all he has to do is say his sin out loud
and all is forgiven? Also the whole religious factor was silly in my
opinion, why not just make it a demon entity in the elevator? It's hard
to believe that the devil doesn't have better things to do than haunt a
couple of dead beats.

However, my review isn't all complaints. Shamalamadingdong actually
does a decent job with atmosphere and the story. Even though the script
needs some major work without the clich√©s, there was some incredible
potential for a great story, even an excellent franchise that we need
since the Saw series came to an end last year. I like the whole idea of
a demon haunting those who have done wrong in life waiting to confess
and get the punishment they truly deserve. The characters were
interesting, except for Ramirez who can easily get on a lot of people's
nerves, and the effects were actually pretty good. I would say this is
definitely an improvement over Shamalamadingdong's previous works. He's
come a long way and hopefully he just chooses better scripts or learns
how to edit, we need the tension still, he knows he can do it, we
believe in you Shamalmadingdong! 

4/10
<|_=00=_|>
After several weaker movies, Shyamalan begin to work on a new trilogy
about the presence of supernatural evil in big cities. He concentrated
on the script and preferred to let other people direct the movie and so
you might expect that this first part of Shyamalan's renaissance must
be a well elaborated and twisted masterpiece. Well, this is absolutely
not the case, there are no major twists or surprises in the story. But
that doesn't mean that this movie is without the glimpse of a doubt a
very well done psycho thriller.

Let me mention the negative points first. The movie isn't really long.
There are only two minor twists and the first one is not that much
surprising while the second one is an interesting turning point of the
story but also a little bit predictable towards the end of the movie.
The story is not really innovating and this time, Shyamalan really
delivers what he announces in the previews. Because of the short
running time, not every character is extremely well developed and
profound. The critical and philosophic influence that many movies of
Shyamalan had is not very present in this movie.

But there are more positive points about this movie. There is a high
tension present throughout the whole length of the movie and this is
what makes the watching experience breathless and intense, you don't
see time pass at all. The movie spares out the unnecessary and goes
straight in your face which isn't that usual for Shyamalan's earlier
works. That is something new, fresh and innovative coming from him and
a little positive surprise for many but maybe also a little deception
for some of his more purist fans. The interactions between the
characters in the elevator are intense and very interesting. Every
character has a very unique and special behaviour and something
interesting to hide even if the characters could have been more
developed if the movie had maybe twenty minutes more running time. The
actions in the movie become more and more intense towards the finish
and end up in a well done finale that leaves you with no open
questions.

All in all, this is surely not the best of Shyamalan's movies but way
better than the last stuff he has done before this movie. It is not a
very surprising and philosophical movie, but rather a short and intense
psycho thriller. It is a very good movie but far away from being the
best movie of the year. It is worth watching it at the cinema or at
home, but i wouldn't recommend buying this movie at the full price
without having seen it before.
