
Anyone interested in this film already knows the premise by now if they
have read this far, so I won't rehash it.

All I will say is that this film could have easily been contrived and
cheesy and hokey and clich√©d but rather, the end is result is truly one
of the finest, most real representations of youth and love I have seen
in a long time. And the fact that it seemed so genuine is exactly why I
have not cried in a film so much since...."The Perks of Being a
Wallflower." Chloe Grace Moretz has already proved she is a force to be
reckoned with, but by an accomplishment like playing the key character
in a film that was made to be a tearjerker without coming across as
completely laughable shows what a strong actress this young woman truly
is.

Excellent, relatable script, wonderful direction and perfectly edited,
the fact the a bunch of tween girls went "Huh? What? That's the end?"
when the credits began to roll proved that R.J. Cutler knew exactly
when to end this film at the precise moment. There was no need to
overstay the welcome.

Make sure you have some Kleenex.
<|_=00=_|>
If I stay is a beautiful, moving film about a teenage girl and the life
or death decision she must make. Mia is a teenage girl that has a
wonderful, quirky family, a boyfriend who loves her to pieces, and a
bright, ambitious future. But, all of that changes when she and her
family are in a fatal car accident. While Mia's body is in a coma, her
mind journeys back to all of her memories, triumphs, heart breaks and
future. She has to make the decision on whether or not to fight and
stay alive, or let go and leave this world. Will Mia stay? 

I love this movie. It made me laugh, cry and it helped me to see all of
the good in my own life that I should cherish, because you never know
when it could all change. The cinematography is beautiful. Most of the
film is filled with memories that Mia has and the way they are
portrayed is very neat. The music is also beautiful. Mia is a cellist
and a lot of the film focuses on her dreams of becoming a successful
musician, so the film is filled with beautiful classical music. 

My Favorite character is Mia played by Chloe Moretz. This film shows so
many aspects of Mia's life, so it's easy to find something to relate
to. She has a great passion for playing the cello and dedicates most of
her life to it. She has difficulties relating to her parents and even
her boyfriend since their musicals tastes are far more edgy than hers.
She has to face her insane loss and she has to choose between many
different things in life. There's something about her life that I think
anyone can relate to, so she's a wonderful character. Chloe does a
wonderful job portraying everything she's going through and she moved
me to tears many times.

This film makes me think about my own family and everything I would do
for them. It makes me think of my life and all the joys and sorrows
I've faced. There was not a dry eye in the audience because this film
provokes unique memories for every individual. I felt especially
connected to Mia's family because I too have a younger brother and am
very close with my parents, so I was very touched by Mia's situation. 

I give this film 4 out of 5 stars and recommend it for ages 13 to 18
because of the intense emotions and mature content. Make sure you check
out If I Stay in theaters August 22nd.

Reviewed by Raven D., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a well balanced romantic drama. The movie has a good balance
between family tragedy of a horrific car accident and teen romance of
young love. Also the theme of music is well shared between classical
cello and Pacific Northwest rock band. The romance is a convincing tale
- not too passionate for their age but with the real problems of
differing paths and East Coast (Juillard) vs West Coast (rock band).
This is a problem that face many couples and it's good to see proper
issues as the problem instead of trumped up melodrama. The story felt
more real than "The Fault in Our Stars" and less sentimental too. In
fact although the tale is a sad one, it's the best of the recent teen
based romance movies far better than "The Giver".

Chloe Grace Moretz proves she can do anything from horror (Carrie) to
action (Kick Ass) to moving romantic drama. Her face is sensitive and
expressive. Even though she is very pretty she is such a good actress
she can still pull off the shy musical prodigy without being fake. Her
love interest is played by Jamie Blackley who does a good job without
overacting. He isn't too good looking so it's a believable romance. The
ex rocker type parents seem like they couldn't have had such a
beautiful daughter but never mind. Stacy Keach is surprisingly
effective as her grandfather.

Well done - moving, involving, rings true.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw the trailer for If I Stay back in April, I got chills
and it quickly became one of my top five most anticipated movies of the
summer. From then on, I stayed away from all other trailers and clips
so that I could see the movie knowing as little as possible, to the
point where I'd put the TV spots on mute and run out of the theater
when a trailer came on. Based on the trailer I saw, I honestly expected
something similar to Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, or a
dramatic Inception. However, after having finally seen it this weekend,
I am sad to report that If I Stay is nothing like that at all, and is
instead probably my most disappointing movie of the summer.

If I Stay follows Mia, played by Chloe Grace Moretz, an 18 year old
girl who likes classical music and cello, and who's still not quite
over her ex, Adam (Jamie Blackley). Then on a snowy day, her life is
completely turned upside down when her family and she get into a deadly
car crash, sending her into a coma. In this coma, she has an out of
body experience in which she needs to decides either to die and go up
to heaven or live with the physical and emotional repercussions, all
while flashing back to the relationship she and Adam had.

The movie is primarily made up of flashbacks to the relationship that
Mia and Adam had, and the chemistry that the two of them share isn't
very strong and can be described as okay at best. Chloe Grace Moretz is
a talented young actress who really gives it her best in this film,
whereas her costar Jamie Blackley ranges from decent to mediocre. The
relationship between their two characters is cute and sort of fun for
the first half of the movie. However, in the second half when their
relationship slowly starts to go downhill, Adam becomes a jerk and is
unlikeable and unreasonable, which made me have a tough time feeling
bad for him when he was an emotional wreck. Also, with Adam and Mia's
relationship, something felt missing. Rather than true love, it felt
like a typical high school relationship where the two people think
they're love, then someday breakup and later realize that they never
actually were in love.

Then all the other characters are either annoying or underdeveloped.
Mia's parents are somewhat likable, however, most of their jokes and
dialogue come off as either flat or cringe-worthy. Then there's this
couple who is close friends to Mia's parents, and they are present in
the hospital for most of the movie and in many of the flashbacks. In
one scene they talk about never wanting to have children, but then they
are later seen in another scene with a baby (referred to as their son)
who is then never referenced or seen again afterwards. The one
exception to all this would be Mia's grandfather, played by Stacy
Keach, and he had one scene in particular that I did really like (those
who have seen the movie can probably guess what scene it was). Perhaps
I am just being biased since I do enjoy Keach and his acting, but I do
think he gave a good performance.

Now I have some things to say regarding the ending. I'm not going to
outright say any spoilers, but I'm kind of going to imply what happens
in the end. Therefore, if you do not want anything spoiled about If I
Stay, skip this next paragraph.

Mia makes her decision to stay or leave based off of a five minute
speech that one character makes to her, and then the movie ties itself
up really nice in a bow and leaves everything real hopeful and bright
for the characters. While I do like happy endings, I felt in this case
a less hopeful ending would have been better suited to really make her
decision difficult. Not Requiem For a Dream level hopeless, but rather
cutting the whipped cream and cherry on top. However, I do have to say
that with the route they chose, the last ten seconds of the film were
perfect. The place where the last shot cut could not have been better.

In the end, If I Stay is just another average teen romance movie, and
it's not even all that interesting. The trailer makes the movie seem
like a tear-jerking drama that takes place all in her mind about her
decision to live or die, when in reality, it's a high school love story
consisting of 70% flashbacks that only spends a small portion with her
out of body experience. I REALLY don't want to give this movie anything
below a 6/10 because of how much I had been looking forward to it for
so long, but I have to give it a 5/10. It's even possible that in the
future my score will go even lower. While it is somewhat entertaining,
If I Stay is a rather weak romance movie for teens and is overall very
forgettable.
<|_=00=_|>
A Warner Brothers/MGM film. 'If I Stay' is a tearjerker film about a
teenage-girl who experiences an out-of-body experience whilst in a
coma.

The teenage-girl is played well by Chloe Grace Moretz. As film opens we
discover that she is part of a sickly-sweet family that seems just too
perfect. Off out together, they are involved in an accident. Miss
Moretz's character, Mia Hall, comes to, but does not understand why she
is being ignored by the emergency services, as she stumbles about in a
dream-like state. Seeing herself, she starts to understand, as she goes
to the hospital. These scenes all occur at the start of the film, the
rest of the film is based at the hospital, with the majority of the
film being flash-backs.

Director RJ Cutler has done a good job here. The scenes at the accident
are, as said, rather dream-like, thus capturing the confused state of
Miss Hall. Miss Moretz captures well the disorientation of her
character. Both Director Mr Cutler and actress Miss Moretz capture well
the out-of-body experience. As a disembodied spirit, Mia Hall has no
physical abilities thus travel can only be achieved via open doors etc.

Thus, 'If I Stay' is completely different from 'Ghost' and 'Truly,
Madly, Deeply', both of 1990. Those films were about the interaction of
living breathing humans and the spirits of dead humans. Not so in this
film. 'If I Stay' does however share one thing with both of those other
films, a love story.

Flashbacks tell us that the teenage schoolgirl Mia Hall, has fallen in
love with older boy Adam, played by Jamie Buckley. The two were
attracted to each other, and did fall in love, but were troubled with
what might be described as musical differences. Thus this film has a
major musical plot-line that reminds of the recently screened 'Begin
Again'. The films are similar in many ways, the major one being that we
viewers get to hear a fair bit of music. Mia and boyfriend Adam are
both musicians, though very different ones. However the music does
provide one further link to 'Truly, Madly, Deeply'.

The two young lovers are ably supported by a great cast, all of whom
are good, but special mention should go to those playing family
members. Joshua Leonard plays Mia's father. He and the Director got the
flashback scenes just right, they are also funny, as we see the younger
wild rocker turn into the more sedate parent. Hair-styles in those
scenes was particularly good. Mireille Enos, playing the mother, has
some poignant scenes with her daughter. However the most emotional
scenes were with veteran actor Stacy Keach. He gives a stand-out
performance, particularly in one very emotional and very important
scene.

Preparing for her role in Kick Ass (2010), Miss Moretz trained with a
stunt-crew for three months and also did most of her own stunts. For
her musical role in 'If I Stay', Miss Moretz is also reported to have
engaged in much musical study. Last year she gave a tremendous
performance in the 2013 remake of 'Carrie'. Here, in 'If I Stay', we
once again see Miss Moretz play a somewhat shy girl, that sometimes
seems dreamily unaware, but that at other times capture perfectly the
utmost depths of the rawest of emotions.

Shauna Cross wrote the screenplay of the Gayle Forman novel. Director
RJ Cutler has done a great job. Outside shots, particularly those
featuring different seasons, were done well, ably capturing the sense
of passing time.

This teenage love-story shares a supernatural spiritual love story like
'Ghost' and 'Truly, Madly, Deeply'. Like 'TMD' it also has some
hauntingly beautiful music. The film is also about music and could be
described as a teenage version of 'Begin Again'. If you liked any of
those films, then 'If I Stay' will appeal to you.

This tearjerker deserves 10/10 but needs a hanky.
<|_=00=_|>
What sleight of hand! A moving love story between a high school cellist
prodigy & a rising rock star (slightly older). If I stay implies a
choice is to be made. Perhaps there is. Who am I to say? If there is no
one knows for sure, & if they proclaim otherwise, they are a clear &
obvious fraud. This story revolves around this existential question &
successfully gives deep & equal background for both. Many will flat out
cry, & I remember two instances of prolonged hard blinks, fighting off
tears. 

The maturation of Chloe Grace, as I call her, has been sublime to
watch. I rarely watch Carson Daly, but remember the genuineness & wit
from his interview with her before an early hit movie. This was
ingrained into my memory as someone to keep track of. She displays
masterful acting, as the female lead. If I could buy stock in an
actress, she would be my blue chip 1st choice. Everything about her is
amazing, including her "Joliesque" lips. They are similar, yet all her
own. 

It gives me great pleasure to recommend this movie. It was enjoyable to
see the clear chemistry between boy & girl. They were successful in
portraying the emotions of true love, the give and take, and sacrifices
that make it endure. Chloe Grace Moretz outshines everyone else in the
story. The supporting cast was good, but never had the chance the
moment she was cast. The ending seems predictable but it was far from
it. The director makes two equally compelling cases for her choice.
Enjoy this movie about young adult love, and don't be surprised if you
compare it to your own love stories. I rate this a very solid 7/10
stars on the back of Chloe Grace's performance. Others who enjoy this
genre more than I may well rate it 1-2 stars higher. Chloe Grace
continues to rise in her mastery of the art. 

Knox D. Alford, III
<|_=00=_|>
hey I loved this movie. If a movie stirs my emotions to a point where
my body can't control itself, cry, laughter, anger etc, then in my mind
it's done it's job. Movies are escapism. If you don't feel like you've
been transported into the movie, then you're just not into it.

As a father I relate to this movie, the sacrifice the father makes for
his talented daughter.. It well and truly stirred my emotions. It's a
10 in my book. The concept might appear cheesy to some, but it was up
my ally. 

If you're a romantic at heart, you will enjoy this flick. If you don't
want to embrace being taken on a journey of what it might be like in he
next world, then go check out something else.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought it was pretty good the first time. To be honest, I was half
asleep when I first saw it, to the extent that I didn't realize I had
seen it just based on the name of it, so I accidentally started
streaming it today without realizing I had seen it before several
months ago. I know, this doesn't sound supportive of this movie. For
the record, I almost never watch movies more than once...I get too
bored. After it started this second time, I did realize immediately
that I'd seen it before, but I figured I'd stop it the moment I became
bored, which I knew was inevitable given that I'd seen it before. Well,
somehow I watched it all again, in its entirety. This time, I saw more
depth than I'd seen before. Bottom line, this is worth watching. Of
course, it's not perfect, and the main character looks like she's 12
rather than 17 or 18, which is a little bit creepy. But it has heart,
and it's beautiful. Granted, I don't totally agree with the ending, but
up until then it brought up questions that were very meaningful for
anyone who has experienced loss. Kudos to this movie for being
unexpectedly watchable for a 2nd run, and for actually being better
another time around.
<|_=00=_|>
When it first came out I read the book, cried then went to see the
movie where I cried yet again. The chemistry between the characters in
the film is one of those which I don't think you see very often in a
film. Normally films which are based on books aren't actually that
similar but I thought it was fairly similar. I loved the story line and
the drama in the film. It's most definitely one that I would watch
again. I would recommend it to friends and family being the socialite
that I am. Typical college girl me. Sigh. Look I you want to rate the
film just watch it because I personally thought it was fabulously
entertaining. At times it was slightly boring and hard to understand,
although I would've liked a tiny bit more action. Just a little.
<|_=00=_|>
Normally I completely agree with meta critic but this is the one time
that I do not agree. I went in with low expectations but I was
completely wrong.I do not normally give out ratings without thinking
about it first. If I stay is one movie that I believe is 10 out of 10.

Chloe Grace Moretz performance in this movie was amazing. She is always
referred to as a future great actress of the industry but I felt that
she has not completely proved herself yet until I saw this film. Moretz
plays Mia Hall so well and so believable. I think she portrays the love
and the actions of a teenage girl in love with great accuracy. Her on
scree chemistry with Jaime Blackley was on point. He also performed
great. I did not expect much from him but he along with everyone else
in the film performed great.

This movie has a little bit of everything. It makes you smile, it has
music, a strong story, great acting and a lot of emotion. The film does
not center around her out of body experience but centers around Mia's
love for Adam. The film skips back and forth from her out of body
experience to her memories with Adam and her family. This was done well
and allows us to understand the love and bond that they have because it
skips back to different points in their history. The story is not about
god or the afterlife but simply about a choice that she has. Does she
leave with her family or does she stay and continue fighting through
life with Adam by her side?

I honestly really enjoyed this movie and thought multiple times during
it that this movie is really good. I never think about movies much
afterward but with this one has been on mind. The ending was perfect
especially with the gasps and reactions of the audience. Best movie of
the summer by far.
