
Child actors are a dime a dozen, yet Abraham Attah is something else.
He transcends the category and remains such a demanding presence
throughout the entire film, matching even Idris Elba's poise. His
character's transformation is just one of the remarkable feats of
storytelling that Beasts of No Nation graces us. A gripping account of
modern day war seen through a child's eyes, Beasts of No Nation is
easily one of the best of the year.

The first thing you'll notice is how beautiful the film is. The stark
landscapes of West Africa draw you in, and the color palette for the
film is quite something. Director and cinematographer Cary Fukunaga
makes sure you remember the reality of this not-so-fictional story,
paralleling Agu's family life and how his world was flipped upside down
when he joined a group of mercenary fighters. Initially, Agu has no
choice and uses them as an escape and a way to reunite with his mother,
but the ruthless commandant (Elba) changes him.

The writing is fantastic as you see the war through Agu's eyes, and
it's not pretty. This kind of situation is almost completely unfamiliar
for most audiences, and Fukunaga manages to supplement fear for grace.
He never lets us forget the harsh realities of war, touching on
familiar themes like family but going a step further by making it
personal for Agu. As the film is his story through and through, the
adult details of war are kept to a minimum. The audience is just like
Agu, unaware of exactly why there is fighting but rolling with it
because it's his only choice. There's no strategic battle scenes, no
planning on a map or signing peace treaties, as we are thrust into
moments just like Agu is.

When the violence does break out, it's brutal and harrowing. Young
actor Attah is ferocious yet sympathetic, and he brings these battle
sequences down to earth. The creative risks that Fukunaga takes with
these sequences might come across as pandering, yet they make sense
cinematically and come across as action poetry. There's a certain
lyricism to the war torn villages and jungles of the continent, and
it's beautiful and unforgettable.

There isn't much dialogue in the film, but when there is it's
brilliant. The unnamed commandant's ideology becomes clearer as the
film goes on, and it reaches a disturbing peak. Fukunaga contrasts him
with the initially innocent Agu and the two are at odds yet retain
respect for one another. There are times when Agu could simply point a
gun at the commandant and be done with it, but there's a humanity to
the film that respects all lives. War isn't pretty, and Beasts of No
Nation knows that. Yet this risky piece of entertainment remembers to
be a film first and everything else second. The result is a rhythmic
work of art with one of the best young performances I've seen.
<|_=00=_|>
I was sceptical of watching this film at first. It looked like a low
budget, and amateur attempt for Netflix to get bigger in their original
film business. I went to IMDb to see what people had to say, noticed it
got decent reviews and decided to give it a shot. Let me say, this is
one of the best films I have ever seen within this genre.

Without spoiling anything, I will say that this is about the general
civil warfare that exists in Africa, something most western, shelterd
Americans have never even fathomed and have only learned about through
movies. The film doesn't specify what part of Africa it is, but you
know it is something that is real.

Netflix doesn't hide anything about the realities of what happens to
families, children, fathers, and brothers, as well as the numbness the
war leaders (on both sides, really) have toward excessive and brutal
violence. Imagine: the film shows all of this through the eyes of a
boy, probably only 12 years old. He is forced into a mercenary squad
after his family is torn apart, and he experiences something that is
even darker than hell itself.

That young boy, played by Abraham Attah, puts on a performance I have
never seen before in a child actor. Given the mature content of the
film, it is quite unbelievable that the torn emotions any child would
have, given this situation, is so clearly displayed and authentic.
Every scene just tore at my soul; I wondered if it was really acting.
And he wasn't the only one; women, children, and the "extras" in the
film: are these people really doing their first major film? Each scene
left me speechless.

The emotional involvement I had with this film as a viewer is
astonishing. I felt ashamed at myself for thinking my life had
problems, for thinking my life was hard. I felt foolish realizing my
immaturity in life, and felt embarrassed for us as America in general,
for caring so much about things so materialistic and shallow, when
people in Africa (and other parts of the world, no doubt), are fighting
for their lives every day, being torn apart by corrupt leaders and
greed.

To compare this film, it is similar to The City of God and Blood
Diamond, but in an of itself, it is certainly unique. It's a
masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
Originally known for his first two films Sin Nombre and Jane Eyre, Cary
Fukunaga was put on the map for most by his audacious work on the first
season of HBO's True Detective last year, unconventionally directing
every episode. He got all-time worthy performances from Woody Harrelson
and Matthew McConaughey and boasted a palpable bleak mood from his
photography, earning an Emmy for the episode "Who Goes There" with that
captivating long take. He could do whatever he wanted after that, and
so, tip toeing past comfortable studio gigs that may or may not have
landed on his desk, he ventured out to the African jungles with Idris
Elba for the most stressful shoot since Apocalypse Now. Catching
malaria, filling in for an injured camera operator, and constantly
rewriting the script due to the actors dropping out, the haphazard
conditions shows on the film for better and for worse.

Coppola's film is an apt point of comparison for the effect of Beasts
of No Nation, as well as Platoon and The Thin Red Line. Battered by
explosions and gunfire, you come out of the film wearing the same
thousand yard stare as its characters. At that point, it's easy to
forget the delights of the first ten minutes as Abraham Attah's Agu
playfully hustles his living, selling shells of television sets with
his friends. It's not a perfect life, but the energy is reminiscent of
the less dangerous sections of City of God. It's only from that light
that the darkness hits hardest and invests you in Agu's plight and
losses. However, this is as rocky as the roller-coaster gets. The next
2 hours is an absorbing barrage of misery and brutal dilemmas. The
narrative thread is very loose, and perhaps some is lost in translation
with the character's thick accents, but this is part of its point,
especially in utilising child soldiers who won't know the ins and outs
of what's going on anyway.

This aimlessness of the mission and the way that the war is so much
bigger than the soldiers and battalions demonstrates that there is no
way into peace from war. The kids are fighting for a future that they
won't be able to find solace in, neither from eventual living and
economical conditions, nor inner peace from the atrocities they've
committed. These bleak ideas hit hard. And like Malick's The Thin Red
Line, a relationship with God in war is challenged. It's questioned
whether it's possible or fair to have spiritual happiness after such
sins. There is very poor foresight in war, and after only briefly
touching a jarring scene where they visit the higher ups, it benefits
no-one on the battleground. The film never preaches these messages,
instead relying on the fact that we know how heartbreakingly true it is
despite how far removed most of us will be.

Abraham Attah absolutely disappears into his role. He's not showy, but
just completely immersed in the film whether he's soaking in events or
lashing out against them. He's easily the biggest discovery here.
However, I expected great things from Elba after the hype and while he
is good, it wasn't the tour de force performance I anticipated. That's
just not how the character ended up being written. He has memorable
moments but he teeters undefinably on the line between a manipulative
villain and a manipulative mentor. He's no doubt an opportunist, but
the film doesn't explore his character to the full extent, and the most
dramatic moments are quite familiar as they're staples in other war
films. Beasts stands out by having such a young boy other end of those
dilemmas. Elba is perhaps too polished to go with the inherent rawness
of the rest of the cast.

Fukunaga's cinematography is quite good, not boasting the same tricks
as True Detective, but also clearly battling against the elements. It
certainly has atmosphere. The style favours ambient music over montages
of the war scenes and while that makes it flow together it also means
that its surprises fall by the periphery. I can imagine that this will
play well on Netflix, granted you give it full attention on a big HD
television. The cinema projection does suffer from added graininess but
that is rarely a problem via the internet and should compliment
Fukunaga's cinematography a little more. I imagine that it will garner
a divided reaction, with some finding it too hard to bare through the
whole thing, but I can't imagine it getting much Oscar traction based
on passion alone. It will be a pleasant and worthy surprise if it does
score any nominations. At least an admirable effort that will be being
remembered as one of the most notable war films of this decade.

8/10

Read more @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com/)
<|_=00=_|>
This is quite simply one of the best war films of the 21st Century.
Netflix's first outing on the big screen is a huge success thanks to an
absolutely harrowing tale of conflict that makes for one of the most
fascinating and thought-provoking movie experiences you've had in a
long time.

The story follows this young boy, Agu, as he becomes deeper and deeper
involved in the rebel army under the wing of the Commandant, played by
Idris Elba. Both of these performances are simply excellent. Elba is
often terrifying as the warmongering troop leader, and his unnerving
performance is key to making this such an unsettling and disturbing
film.

However, even Idris Elba is outshone by the stunning performance given
by the young Abraham Attah, who plays Agu. Attah does a brilliant job
at showing his character's transformation over the course of the story,
from an innocent young boy to a hardened warrior in one of the most
brutal wars on the planet.

This ties in perfectly, then, with the main theme of the film, which is
all about the way that war destroys innocence entirely and replaces it
with only doom and despair. In that, you can see that this is clearly
an anti-war film, but it fortunately doesn't present itself so much as
that, only giving you its powerful message if you concentrate hard
enough and look for the details telling you about the destruction that
war has brought to this place.

I say that because this film is, on the whole, not the most fast-
paced, and if you watch it with your brain turned off, you'll likely be
bored, because it's quite long, and hasn't got much action at all, it's
the power and emotion of the underlying themes that provides the
horrifying punch that makes this so compelling and upsetting.

Cary Joji Fukunaga's directing is also stunning. As well as making a
simply beautiful film to look at, the way he directs every scene works
brilliantly in tandem with whatever the film is trying to say. There
are so many astonishing long shots of individuals' faces, particularly
focused on Agu, and they just have such an incredible emotional power
when you really look deep into their situation.

Abraham Attah's performance as a young boy who has clearly been through
hell is of course integral to making that emotion clear, but the
inventive and beautiful directing really aggrandises that feeling of
total despair and loss of innocence, which is why this film is just
such an incredible one to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
i loved the movie not because its shot in my country but the content of
the story and cast was done spot on. I just pray that all political
leaders take a cue from this movie and past ones in this format not to
plunge the world into this form of darkness.Best Indie Movie for sure @
the Oscars Idris you rocked it. This is a must watch for every
household doesn't matter if you black,white,Asian,hispanic etc it can
happen to any of us,some children are really suffering to PTSD due to
political injustices that has led to war in many countries,lets be
tolerant of each other and wish for a better brighter future for us
all.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not often that a film induces a genuine change of heart in me, but
this one did. I used to simply hate and despise the raggedy rebel
armies of West Africa with their child soldiers, their cruel atrocities
and apparent primitive mindless violence towards civilians in general.
But this film showed me a side to them that I had never considered. I
found myself feeling sorry for them, and the cynical way in which they
were used. I realized that they must also have courage, and discipline,
and belief in the cause. Like any fighters, they must advance into
deadly danger. The lead actor is a child, yet more than holds his own
with Idris Elba, a great actor by any measure. By the end I was shaken.
I will not forget this film. And I will never think the same way again
about the tragic and pointless wars of Africa.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Cary Joji Fukunaga has quickly
established himself as an expert storyteller with his previous writing
and directing of SIN NOMBRE (2009), JANE EYRE (2011) and the
fascinating and conversation-sparking first season of "True Detective"
(he did not direct the much-maligned Season Two). He goes even deeper
and darker this time by adapting Uzodinma Iweala's novel about a child
soldier.

When first we meet Agu, he is but an enterprising and fun-loving kid
who thrives on mischief such as trying to sell "Imagination TV"  the
empty shell of a console TV, complete with Agu and his buddies acting
out scenes for those who peer through the picture tube opening. Agu
describes himself as "a good boy from a good family", and we believe
him.

Somewhere in Africa is all we know about the location, and soon enough
Agu's village is under siege and he is separated from his mother, and
forced to stay behind with the men  including his father and big
brother. More terror forces Agu alone into the forest until he is
brought into a mostly young group of rebel forces led by the Commandant
(Idris Elba). It's around this time that Agu begins "talking" to God
through voice over narration that allows viewers to understand what's
going on inside Agu's head  often quite contrary to what is happening
on the outside as he transforms from mischievous kid to dead-eyed child
soldier. When Agu stops speaking to God, we understand that he believes
he no longer deserves to be heard, but his words to the universe
(directed to his mother) let us know, this boy has not yet lost his
soul.

Though we never understand the war, or even who is fighting whom, this
uncertainty is designed to help us better relate to Agu. He may be a
tough-minded soldier, but we also never forget that he is mostly a
little boy hoping to re-connect with his mother. Idris Elba plays the
Commandant as part father-figure, part war lord, and part cult leader.
He is a menacing presence one moment and a soothing voice of reason the
next. When we (and Agu) learn the full story of his multiple sides, we
are both sickened and disheartened. It's the performances of both Elba
and newcomer Abraham Attah (as Agu) that make this such a devastating
and fascinating movie to watch, and it's the filmmaking of Fukunaga
that keeps our eyes glued to the screen when we would just as soon turn
away.
<|_=00=_|>
Compelling with beautiful shots and music. Watched on Netflix where
other options and distractions are a abundant, but I did not put this
down. It is quite the untold story about such a huge political and
inhumane problem within Africa today. Casting was great, very memorable
faces. I would say this is what American Sniper should have been like.
The changes in characters was gradual and smooth, PTSD and other issues
were presented much better. Eye opening in a way old stories used to
be. This was much more than entertainment, but more of a virtual
experience like Saving Private Ryan was. Quite gritty as well, which
doesn't bother me, but for those that are sensitive this will be a hard
watch.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the best films of the year! Cary Fukunaga swings and
hits the ball out of the park and the ball hit a windshield! A film
with so much savagery that it also makes you feel for this boy and what
he is going through! A must see and one of the many reasons to go and
get a Netflix account! Idris Elba gives the best performance of his
life as the Commandment! Abraham Attah is amazing and has one of the
best child actor performances ever! It is as good as True Detective and
one of Netflix's best pieces of entertainment! Hopefully those Adam
Sandler movies don't ruin their perfect line up(which it probably
will).
<|_=00=_|>
From the beginning I had high hopes for this movie and it lived up to
my expectations. From beginning to end The Child goes through his
stages as he is more exposed to violence. He was at first a very
innocent kid scared to be apart of the fight but when circumstances
force him to join the violence he has only one choice. The children
acting in this movie are amazing, it is one of the best movies where a
child grabs your attention. The director did a great job on here. And
can't Forget Idris Elba, not an outstanding performance but still
great. Idris's character also goes through his stages on this one too
just like the kid. The Scenery was beautiful and it wasn't really
nothing special but it's hard for me these days to come across a movie
that I can rate over a 7 and this one is a 8 in my book. With this one
Netflix proves that their originals are one of the best nowadays.
