
Simply put, some movies should never be remade. "Oldboy" serves as a
stark reminder with only a few exceptions: Americanized remakes of
beloved and admired foreign films inevitably result in disappointment.
For viewers unfamiliar with the history behind Spike Lee's "Oldboy,"
the 2013 film is a remake of the cult-classic 2003 South Korean film of
the same name, directed by Chan-wook Park. The Korean masterpiece
possess a highly stylized, gritty sensibility while providing an
emotional depth to its characters. Iconic director Spike Lee's "Oldboy"
is as a handsomely shot piece of genre entertainment, but it fails in
its attempt to define itself, resulting into a completely pointless,
watered-down underwhelming thriller.

An alcoholic whose life is falling apart, Joe (Josh Brolin) is far from
the ideal father who is willfully neglecting his three-year-old
daughter, Mia. Drugged and kidnapped one night, Joe awakens in a small
room with a television, only to learn that he's been framed for the
murder of his ex-wife, and will spend the next 20 years trapped in this
cell where he is held as a prisoner. During the duration of his
imprisonment, he trains his mind and body for escape attempts while
pouring his heart out to Mia in letters. After two decades of torment,
Joe is suddenly set free, seeking out an old friend Chucky (Michael
Imperioli), and meeting Marie (Elizabeth Olsen), an advocate for the
homeless who helps him in his cause. Hunting for the individual who
locked him away, Joe spares no one as he works his way to Adrian
(Sharlto Copley), a deranged man masterminding the mystery Joe and
Marie are now determined to solve.

Director Spike Lee, working from a screenplay by Mark Protosevich "I Am
Legend" (2007), chooses to simply rehash the plot for his American
remake, and quickly rushes through the unusual and unique storyline
unable to establish an emotional connection with the audience which the
original film develops so well. Lee's picture clocks in at a lean 104
minutes, 16 minutes shorter than Park's "Oldboy." As a result, the
storytelling is rather straightforward, and it forces Lee to rush
through crucial sequences which are not given the adequate time to
develop. Subtly goes by the waste side, and almost abandoned completely
early into the third act in favor of expeditious explanations.

The remake remains largely faithful to the story of the 2003 effort,
but seriously lacks in intensity and a sense of meaning. The original
film achieves a sublime blending of ultra-violence with extreme art,
while the remake feels bogged down in its copycat status, and its
overall lighter tone hampers its enigmatic, disconcerting story of
revenge. My advice is to avoid this altogether, pull up the original on
Netflix, and deal with the subtitles America.
<|_=00=_|>
THIS WILL BE A SPOILER FREE REVIEW! (Except for the ending, but don't
mind, i will warn you) 

First of all, excuse me for my writing, i'm not a native English
speaker.

So, i got the "chance" to see the oldboy remake yesterday in a sneak
preview. I left the cinema shaking of anger, and i wasn't the only one.
Maybe my rating of 1 is a bit to harsh, maybe i would have given it a 3
if i didn't know the original, but i did, and i had to compare the 2.
And in that comparison the movie is just an insult.

The original was incredible poetic (especially in its visuals and its
dialogue)and had an incredible good script. The characters were super
plausible and likable. In the remake everything that was special about
the original got lost.

The poetic overall tone from the original is absolutely lost and got
replaced by pure clichés. So there's nothing to win on the aesthetic
side The plot twists where also changed from the original, but here is
the big problem: They don't work!! The characters are totally
unlikeable and their relationship feels so incredible forced and
constructed. The final twist is so incredibly dumb because the
motivation of the bad guy to do the things he does just doesn't seem to
be anywhere near realistic (and is a shame if you know why the original
"villain" did the things he does). I will explain this later, but i
have to spoil the hell out of it to do so.

Another thing that made this movie bad where the action scenes. Some of
them were pretty brutal and seemed a bit out of place. But the worst
are the scenes that they took from the original (if you know the
original i think you can guess which one i mean). I couldn't get rid of
the feeling that they wanted to satisfy the fans from the original by
"adding" classic scenes, but they just do it way worse. Especially the
one legendary scene from the original feels so brutally out of place.
They forced it to be there cause they thought it HAD to be there.

So, if you don't know the original movie, just go watch this one
instead, even as a standalone film oldboy isn't good cause it builds on
relationship and charactermotivations that totally felt forced and
driven by clichés.

If you're a fan of the original avoid this movie at any costs cause it
will only make you angry... i even shouted a loud "F*** YOU!!!" to the
screen and got applause for it. Trust me, its healthier for your blood
pressure to not watch this movie.

And now some little extra explanations with BIG SPOILERS!!!

He knows about his daughter the whole time!! He sees a TV-show about
his case where they interview his daughter, so he knows how she looks.
But once he is released they tell him that they captured his daughter
so his biggest motivation is to find his daughter (they only tell him
if he can explain why they imprisoned him)!! So his major motivation is
to find his daughter and not just to solve the puzzle!! Well, not my
kind of change (i don't know... it kinda felt pretty cliché the villain
really felt like a bad villain, while in the original he was just one
mysterious, but kinda human, guy), but okay why not. At least i wanted
to know the ending, so there was a reason not to leave the cinema.

Now the twist: The TV Show was staged and the woman he fell in love
with during his revenge was actually his daughter. Not a bad change,
but the real problem is that NO ONE is actually interested in their
love! The whole story point that they fell in love with each other was
so incredibly bad executed!! It just felt like the biggest cliché of
the movie, they absolutely wanted a love story in the movie (cause
hey... there must be a love story in every movie, must it?!). But it
absolutely doesn't feel real!! So just nobody seemed interested in that
plot twist!!! And why did they do this? Cause the whole family of the
villain got raped by their father! And Josh Brolin saw how his sister
had sex... he didn't even knew that this was her father. He just told a
few people that she had sex!! And then the father decided to kill the
whole family... WHY?!!! No one knew that it was her father... no one
could knew!!! So the villain is not the loving brother from the
original, its a sick guy that got raped and now want josh brolin to
feel the love he felt!!! REALLY?!!! ARE YOU KIDDING ME?!!!! In the
original the whole thing was an incredibly sad story build around a
small fault with a big impact the main character did once... And the
whole story felt human and realistic! And now we have a dehumanized
psychopath with weird motivation that forces us into a final plot twist
we are absolutely not interested in!!

This is not a remake, this is a disrespecting insult to the original. I
hope that people will not associate oldboy with this movie and will
instead go watch the original
<|_=00=_|>
Even though i went in to the movie pretending i was watching an
entirely original movie, this remake was awful. The plot was ALMOST the
same but he changed things that shouldn't have changed but kept small
things exactly the same. The ending was a "fairy tale" type ending to
please the audience. SHarlto i usually love his acting but in this
movie he was almost like a cartoon character villain. Lee also
overemphasizes the blood and gore. The fight scenes almost look all way
too choreographed. Overall the plot changed made the movie less
believable for me and ending definitely was a way of "satisfying" the
audience.
<|_=00=_|>
Why would they remake a film by the master? The whole idea behind
remaking films is to remake something that was maybe a good idea but
had bad execution. The original Oldboy is a 10 top to bottom, story,
script, action, actors, direction, why did they try to remake
perfection. 

Josh Brolin is good but when you start comparing him to the pain and
anguish Min-Sik Choi convaed in the Korean version there is no way to
compare the two. Also I like Spike Lee and some of his work but he was
the wrong choice for this. 

Still not sure who thought this was a good idea, it's like eating a
McRib when you can have Korean BBQ, which one sounds better to you.
Watch the Korean version.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody acting and product placement ruined this movie for me. i'm not
sure how he did it, but spike lee even manged to make 20 years in
captivity feel rushed and uneventful. to elaborate further, there was
ZERO character development, everything felt pushed along, including the
20 years in the room. he was just a pitiful alcoholic for YEARS, then
"EPIPHANY", a five minute montage of getting clean and getting in shape
annnnd he's out. there was no passion to it, there was no empathy that
you get from the original, you don't feel sorry for him. he's just a
sociopath on a revenge spree. although, i think the big ending twist
was done well, the overall movie was a snooze fest. they even managed
to make a pivotal scene, the hallway fight, BORING and pushed along.

everything the main character is, is because of that room, his life,
his persona, his transformation, and his realizations. it had no heart.
the subtlety and nuances of the original are just lacking. like i said,
you you don't care about the characters, you're just waiting to see
what happens next...and what made it even worse, is that i KNOW what's
going to happen next, but dammit, i wanted my money's worth.
<|_=00=_|>
Went to see the Oldboy remake last night, although a more apt name
would have been "How to solve all your problems with Apple products".

Product placement was horrific. He just gets out, doesn't know
technology so the female lead was like "ohh we find stuff out on this
device called a mac book, let me show you the inner workings of it. Are
you getting all this camera and folks at home??" 

He remembers the restaurant he ate at had a Dragon in the title "Oh we
can just use this app here on my iPhone to find all the restaurants in
the area with Dragon in it. Are you getting this camera while I go on
apple maps and scroll down the list" *camera is over their shoulder
showing everything* 

He knows that song that keeps playing but can't remember where it's
from "oh there's an app that lets you play a song and it tells you what
it is. Here let me show you and the people at home how to find it on
your iphone" *literally holding the phone up to the camera* 

EVERYTHING they needed to find out, they either ran to a Mac or used
their iPhones. Not to mention the 8000 phone calls made each with a
lingering shot so you first get the apple on the back and then see the
caller picture ID picture then a shot of them swiping to answer it. I
honestly half expected him to be swinging a Mac around instead of a
hammer in the hallway scene.

And Sharlto Copley was just dreadful as the guy who set it all up.
Totally hammed it up. His British accent didn't sound cockney like Dick
van Dyke but it was as over the top and bad. It was just a sh!t, hugely
inferior, dumbed down remake. Meh.
<|_=00=_|>
Spike Lee's 'reimagining' of the Park Chan-Wook cult classic 'Oldboy'
is a queer creature despite the notable absence of the original's
iconic octopus-slurping scene. Those unfamiliar with Park's original,
which itself was based on a late 1990s Japanese manga, will likely find
it bizarre and even off-putting; and yet those who have seen and loved
Park's 2004 Cannes Gran Prix winner are likely to dismiss this as mild
and underwhelming compared to the original. But most of all, there is
something distinctly Asian in the tale's themes of revenge and solitude
that feel an odd and therefore unsatisfying fit for an Americanised
"reinterpretation".

Yes, to call Lee's version a remake will be  if you take the
filmmaker's words for it  akin to blasphemy. According to Lee, he and
his writer Mark Protosevich had not sought to remake Park's movie;
rather, they have returned to the manga by Garon Tsuchiya and Nobuaki
Minegishi to shape a similar yet somewhat different story that keeps
the essential baroque details intact. And so the setup is the same  a
cold- blooded businessman is drugged and held captive in a windowless
hotel room for 20 years, before being let out in a suitcase in the
middle of a field.

The ever dependable character actor Josh Brolin plays the titular
character named Joe Doucett, which we are introduced to as a boozy
advertising executive who blows a make-or-break deal by propositioning
his client's wife at the very meeting. His sentence for the next two
decades while in captivity includes watching a ripped off version of
'America's Most Wanted' where he is held as the prime suspect for his
ex-wife's murder, in between being fed the daily news as well as
Chinese dumplings. The question upon his release is not who, but why 
as 'District 9's' Sharlto Copley plainly puts to him after revealing
himself very early into the movie as Joe's captor  which forms the
core of the mystery behind his unusual circumstance.

Joe is aided in his subsequent quest for punishment and redemption by a
bartender friend (The Sopranos' Michael Imperioli) as well as a kind-
hearted social worker (Elizabeth Olsen). He has a timeline too  Copley
threatens to kill his daughter in the next 48 hours if he fails to
figure out his identity as well as the reason for his imprisonment.
Neither should be unfamiliar to those who have seen Park's version;
indeed, despite what Lee and Protosevich claim, they have only sought
to vary the details from their predecessor.

So instead of an exercise in dentistry when Joe confronts the caretaker
of his prison (Samuel L. Jackson), we are treated to an equally
grotesque sequence where he slices bits of skin from off the man's
throat. Instead of gobbling an octopus live and whole, Joe merely
stares hard at the animal in a restaurant aquarium. And perhaps most
significantly, Joe gets to restage the original film's iconic extended
sequence where his character takes on an entire army of thugs with no
more than a claw hammer and pure rage - a three and a half minute scene
rehearsed for six weeks which to Lee's credit, loses none of its
predecessor's visceral thrills. 

Notwithstanding the distinct sense of familiarity with the proceedings,
there is just something lost in translation. Park's original was the
second and perhaps most famous instalment of his "Vengeance Trilogy"
whose exploration of redemption and salvation was firmly set against a
unique cultural context; unfortunately, the motivations for Joe's
imprisonment lack that dramatic heft when yanked out of that context,
especially since the inherent familial concepts make much more sense
within an Asian setting. Lee also does himself little favour by
undermining an otherwise grim and thoughtful story with cartoonish
elements, most notably Jackson's garish performance (complete with
blonde ponytail we may add) as Joe's chief jailer turned tormentor.

Thankfully, Brolin anchors the titular role with his compelling
presence, built on a single-minded embrace of his character's
vengeance. His transformation from self-pity to determination is a
testament to his prowess as an actor, not to mention his dedication by
having gained and then lost a lot of weight. Olsen provides a
surprisingly warm emotional centre to the movie, especially in
portraying the love angle between her character and Joe - which happens
to be one of the ancillary additions Protosevich has brought to this
adaptation. Copley is similarly excellent as the demented mastermind
behind Joe's depravity, in particular when the two finally confront
each other's demons in the operatic climax.

Yet call it what you may, but Lee's "reinterpretation" can never quite
dissociate itself from Park's festival cult classic. Not only do the
key elements remain similar, Lee also retains the iconic touches of the
South Korean original. But beyond the graphic brutality, there is just
something too culturally specific about the story's twists on revenge
and redemption that defy a cross-cultural interpretation. It won't
satisfy fans weaned on Park's version, nor for that matter is it likely
to win over new converts with its uneven mix of fantasy and stylised
naturalism. They'll be baffled, they'll be astonished, but it is
unlikely if you are encountering this tale for the first time that
you'll be impressed.
<|_=00=_|>
Spike Lee should be ashamed of himself. This movie took an amazing
concept, script and an already amazing film, and took a big dump right
on top. 

Not that I'm all that surprised, Spike Lee has been churning out sh*t
movies for the last 20 years. As pretentious as this cat speaks, I
would hope that he would at least make an interesting movie once a
decade. It's been awhile Spike. Just sayin. We all loved the 90s from
you homey, but you have been turning dookie out for too long!

Go to the original source (goes without saying), and while you're at
it, watch all of Park Chan Wook's films, he's an amazing filmmaker,
unlike this once original voice turned hack.
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood remakes of Asian films are always an iffy proposition. How
will the nuances and culturally-specific references translate across
oceans and continents? Generally, however good the remakes, they rarely
 if ever  eclipse the original films. In recent memory, perhaps only
Martin Scorsese's The Departed, based on Infernal Affairs, has managed
to find a life of its own. Other remakes, like The Lake House and Shall
We Dance?, have sunk into ignominy. Spike Lee's Oldboy isn't completely
terrible, but it does lose quite a bit of the dark, bruising,
ambivalent flavour of Park Chan-Wook's 2003 Korean classic.

Josh Brolin takes centre stage in Lee's version. He sinks credibly into
the abrasive, drunken skin of Joe Doucett, a slimy guy whose wife and
daughter Mia have left him. Nevertheless, Joe continues to merrily
offend everyone around him, until he is abruptly kidnapped and trapped
in a hotel room for twenty years. During his arduous time spent in
solitary confinement, Joe ponders the mystery of his captor. When he
finally gets free, he resolves to seek revenge and re-connect with Mia
 a mission that becomes increasingly fraught with complications as
horrifying secrets from his past are unearthed.

On its own merits, Oldboy  the title as obtuse as ever  is passably
gripping. It entertains and horrifies in equal measure, packing in a
great deal of bone-crunching violence and torture that runs the gamut
from physical to psychological and everything in between. The
relationship that develops between Joe and charity worker Marie
(Elizabeth Olsen) is well-acted, if a little forced. Lee even cooks up
a pretty disturbing face-off between Joe and Chaney (Samuel L.
Jackson), the guy in charge of locking up people for his clients  no
questions asked.

What works rather less well is the deliberate dilution of the twist in
Oldboy's tale, presumably because American audiences can only handle so
much moral and emotional ambiguity. Where Park's version sees the
revenge mission warped with a horrifyingly emotional dilemma, Lee's
film shies away from the conundrum. As a result, the film becomes far
less subtle and considerably more melodramatic. There's a flashback
sequence towards the end of the film that's ridiculous enough to make
audiences laugh rather than gasp, even as blood splatters across walls
and families are torn apart.

The cast assembled is impressive, even though they're not really given
a lot to work with in the frequently stilted, over-blown script. Brolin
anchors the film with admirably stony determination, but his Joe never
seems to really feel the weight of his twenty years without human
contact. Olsen, too, stumbles around a bit, as if never quite sure how
to play her part, and Sharlto Copley comes close to overplaying his
hand when he emerges from the shadows to drop a few hints about the
reasons behind Joe's ordeal.

There's enough on display in Oldboy for the film to jog by at a fairly
quick clip. Lee pays tribute along the way to a few iconic elements of
the Korean film  an octopus in a tank, a prolonged battle in a
corridor  and the cast tries its hardest to make it all work. But it's
hard to shake the feeling that something a little deeper, richer,
sadder and weirder was lost in translating the film into a vernacular
more pleasing to Hollywood audiences.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1993, the alcoholic Joseph "Joe" Doucett (Josh Brolin) is a loathed
man with basically one only friend, Chucky (Michael Imperioli), who
owns a bar. Joe neglects his three year-old daughter Mia and is
estranged of his ex-wife Donna. Out of the blue, Joe is kidnapped and
locked alone in a room for twenty years. Along the years, he learns
that Donna was brutally murdered and he was accused of the crime and
Mia was adopted and raised by a family. Unexpectedly he is released
without knowing who arrested him and why. He meets the humanitarian
social assistant Marie Sebastian (Elizabeth Olsen) and his old friend
Chucky and together they try to find the identity of his kidnapper.

"Oldboy" is a poor remake directed by Spike Lee of the South Korean
masterpiece. It is sad to see Spike Lee so decadent wasting his talent
in a garbage like that. I was reluctant to see this remake and
unfortunately I spent my Friday night watching this crap instead of
watching the South Korean movie again. Spike Lee should do the same. My
vote is three.

Title (Brazil) : "Oldboy: Dias de Vingança" ("Oldboy: Days of Revenge")
