
Everyone knows about the calm that happens before the storm. In
"Seeking A Friend for the End of the World", what's amazing is just how
long that calm lasts.

Throughout the first part of this film, you can't help but wonder, as
you watch, how you would react if you heard nonchalant reports on radio
and TV about a 70-mile wide asteroid heading for Earth and destroying
life as we know it. Would you seek refuge in a fallout shelter and hope
for the best, or say "To hell with it!" and do all the things you
couldn't do when there was established order with a purpose?

Dodge (Steve Carell) seems to find a third option no one else even
tries to consider: sitting calmly and maintaining his own order as
virtually everyone else is participating in an orgy or a riot. While
being calm works for him as a survival instinct, it also reflects his
loneliness. The more people surrounding him, the lonelier he seems.

Very similar to Bill Murray's character in "Lost In Translation",
Carell is great at conveying so much despite doing so little. It
becomes all the more fascinating when he's the only character in the
movie who does not throw caution into the wind. After all, would you be
this calm if the world was going to end?

Keira Knightley is Penny, a vibrant but distraught British woman who
lives in the same building as Dodge. She appears one night outside his
window, and is frantically crying after her realization that she can't
fly back home to Great Britain to see her family. Knightley serves as a
great contrast to Carell in many ways, and she is a welcome presence in
this movie. And I am SO glad the film didn't try to cover her sweet
British accent.

The film evolves into a sort of road-trip movie when a riot ensues
outside their apartment building, and Dodge persuades Penny to drive to
Somerset, Delaware because he knows someone who owns an airplane. As it
turns out, Dodge also had a high school girlfriend who wrote to him a
few months earlier, before his wife left him.

Sounds like a familiar journey from another movie? Well, "Seeking A
Friend For The End of the World" takes you in one direction you think
you're going, and then often makes a sharp left when you least expect
it. The movie is also funnier than the title suggests, has some
startling moments I never saw coming nor expected, and keeps you
watching for many reasons.

Is there a love story between Dodge and Penny? Like the recent "Salmon
Fishing In The Yemen" (2012), you find yourself unsure if the two main
characters should fall in love, or if there is at least a little
attraction, or if it really makes any difference.

There are other things you wonder while watching this movie. Most
notably, is the world really going to end? Everyone in this movie seems
to think so. While it's fascinating to see how different characters
react to the news, you keep watching because you want to see if it
really does. It can't be a dream or a delusion, can it?

It's great that in a summer season of action flicks and disaster films,
there's one film that takes its time showing how ordinary people react
to extraordinary things. There's an asteroid headed towards Earth, but
there are no explosions, deaths, astronauts, superheroes, or even
(surprisingly) camera shots of the sky in this movie whatsoever.
Moviegoers who hated "Armageddon" (1998) will be relieved, I'm sure.

Besides Carell and Knightley, other fairly well-known actors show up so
briefly, their appearances could practically be considered cameos.
Still, every performance by everyone involved stays with you to the
point where you probably pinpoint one character and say, "Yeah, I'd
probably be THAT guy given the circumstances". As the doomsday clock
counts down and the movie ends, you may find yourself reevaluating what
you want the last image in your mind to be before it's all over.
<|_=00=_|>
We've seen dramatic and extreme post-apocalyptic thrillers almost as
many times as we've survived the Rapture, and it is hard to imagine
that anyone can interpret the theme in a way that would make a movie
more enjoyable. However, none of the previous films starred Steve
Carrell or stayed completely in the pre-apocalyptic world. As it turns
out, these two facts make a huge difference.

Dodge (Carrell) learns that nothing can be done to prevent the imminent
destruction of the world while in the car with his wife, Linda (Nancy
Carrell, formerly Nancy Walls and hilarious without saying a word).
Linda then literally runs away, and so begins the story of Dodge's
terrible misfortune. He is a modern-day adult version of Charlie Brown
Â– likable, but not extraordinary in any sense except for his ability to
attract sadness. Seeking then shows how everyone else is coping with
the news, and Dodge doesn't seem very interested in surfing, sex, or
suicide, so he just meanders through the madness sipping his cough
syrup. He probably would have done that for the entire three weeks left
of his life were it not for a his neighbor Penny (Keira Knightley), a
flighty girl trying to get a flight back to her family in England. The
two escape a riot (and Penny's loser boyfriend, perfectly played by
Adam Brody) and set out on an adventure so that Dodge can say goodbye
to his high school sweetheart and Penny can get to England by way of
Dodge's friend who owns a plane.

The commercials portray this film as more of a comedy, and it is
delightfully funny in some spots, but this film is far more emotionally
and intellectually stimulating than it is amusing. I remember thinking
at the end of 2005's War of the Worlds, "I wish they had spent more
time focusing on humanity." The human experience of facing the end of
life is so complex and so unique to every individual, and Director
Loren Scafaria succeeds in showing the despair, decadence, and
delusions that people would definitely be wrapped up in were this to
occur in real life.

Carrell is brilliant as usual with his effortless self-effacing humor.
He seems to have worked on his deadpan skills as his funniest moments
include reacting to crazy events with a blank stare or monotone
comment. Knightley manages to be an effervescent and bubbly realist
without being annoying, which makes Penny a completely plausible
running buddy for Dodge, who can't take much more agitation. These two
stars have a chemistry that allows Dodge to come out of his shell and
live the last days of his life the way he wished he had lived all
along. A few people live in less inspiring ways to awesome comedic
effect. Elsa, Dodge's housekeeper, still diligently comes to clean his
house and even instructs him to get more "Windows" while shaking a
nearly empty bottle of glass cleaner. Warren (fellow Daily Show alum
Rob Corddry) celebrates the end of responsibility by boozing it up and
sharing his drinks freely, even with little kids. These scenes,
however, are merely distractions from how Dodge and Penny learn more
than they ever imagined about life and the world simply because it is
all coming to an end. Despite the hokey-ness, I must admit that I got
teary-eyed as the characters realized what matters most.

Focus Features does a great job of producing equally thought-provoking
and heartstring-pulling films and Seeking is no exception. You'll
laugh, you'll cry, and with any luck, you'll leave the theater thankful
that you most likely have more than three weeks to make the most of
your life.
<|_=00=_|>
It's rare that I rate a movie this highly. No doubt many will disagree
with this rating and I admit to having some doubts myself. I had to
ignore the fact that Keira Knightly was miscast in the role of Dodge's
(Steve Carell) friend, Penny. As I've mentioned in other reviews, she
always seems to be overacting. This may be a personal thing as I'm sure
others are enthralled by her work. Martin Sheen is not convincing as
Dodge's father. The plot has some problematic moments.

These negatives aside, this is a movie driven by a compelling idea:
What would you do if you had only three weeks to live? Well, some
resort to taking drugs, others to sex, and others to suicide. Some
persevere with dignity to the end. The absurdity of life and the value
of death is highlighted, as strange as this may sound. Death puts life
into its proper perspective. On the surface, this film has many
elements of a romantic comedy and some may dismiss it as such. But look
past the surface of this film and you will begin to appreciate it much
more.

Of course, we are all facing the end of our own worlds, maybe not in
three weeks or en masse, as is portrayed here, but through our
individual mortality. Would you continue to work out, visit your
dentist, or mow the lawn if you knew it was all soon coming to an end?
Basically, the film looks at what in life is truly important. What is
worth living for? Who would you want to spend those last moments with
and why aren't you spending time with them now? Because this movie
brings such existential topics into focus, I think it deserves an above
average rating. Don't think of this as a grim, realistic look at life.
There is a good deal of humor here. You'll have a few laughs, which, I
believe, help to highlight the film's more serious elements.

My opinion of Steve Carrell has been on the rise ever since he starred
in Dan in Real Life. In Seeking a Friend for the End of the World, he
plays the role of a down and out loser to perfection.

In short, if you are seeking a movie to watch with a friend, this
should be your choice. You'll have much to discuss afterwards. It may
even make you re-evaluate what you have accepted as being important.
Time is, after all, running out.
<|_=00=_|>
Armageddon, doomsday, the final apocalypse. Ever since the beginning of
time man has wondered how it will all end. Another great flood, a
nuclear war or in this case an asteroid. Filmmakers have always done
their best to exploit this basic fear we have of the termination of our
existence in movies like Fail Safe, On The Beach and The Day After. I
put this film right up there with them because of the awesome
performances of Steve Carell and Keira Knightley as our hero and
heroine who we know are doomed from the start. I have always admired
Carell as a comic (Get Smart, Date Night). However, he proves here that
he can handle drama with the rest of them as does Knightley. They both
have very powerful monologues in this film where they talk of their
lonely lives. Its so ironic that they both find joy and love in life
when they are on the very edge of death.
<|_=00=_|>
"Seeking a Friend of the End of the World" is an end of the world drama 
that really makes you think about what you would do if you had only a 
few weeks to live. With strong dialogue, likable characters, and clever 
jokes, this film shows you that there can be good things to come out of 
a bad situation.

The movie begins with Dodge (Steve Carell) sitting in his car and 
hearing that the mission to save mankind has failed and in 
approximately three weeks the 70 mile wide asteroid is going to hit 
Earth. Upon this news Dodge's wife leaves him and Dodge considers what 
he is going to do with his final days of his life and the past regrets 
he has. He soon meets Penny (Keira Knightley) and they decide to embark 
on adventure that hopefully lead Dodge to find a girl from his past and 
for Penny to see her family before the their time runs out.

This movie was well made. The writers did a great job with mixing 
comedy in a movie that has a depressing feel to it. There were good 
jokes throughout the movie, mostly sarcasm but well planned. The pace 
of this movie was slow, but it necessarily isn't a bad thing. There 
were really good dialogue scenes where Dodge and Penny have 
conversations about themselves and their pasts and it really make the 
audience care about these characters. That being said, the characters 
were developed well and Steve Carell and Keira Knightley's performances 
were great as well as their chemistry. 

I really enjoyed this movie. I really prefer Steve Carell in these 
types of these dramatic movies mixed with light comedy like Dan in Real 
Life and Little Miss Sunshine. This movie isn't a film that will 
dominate the box offices but it is one of the better movies of 2012 and 
I highly recommend this movie. 

4 out of 5.


<|_=00=_|>
I do not even know where to begin, so I'm just going to head into this
review full steam ahead.

I sat staring at my iO screen for 20 minutes trying to decide between
watching this - which I hadn't really heard any review from - and
Celeste & Jesse Forever. Instinctively, I went with this; I clicked
Order and hoped for the best.

This was by far the most moving film I have ever seen. To give you a
quick synopsis, our protagonist, Dodge, teams up with the overly
optimistic and happy-go-lucky Penny, a fellow apartment complex
resident, to travel to his high school sweetheart's house to tie loose
ends before the world comes to an apocalyptic close.

Steve Carell truly nailed his performance. The audience watches his
random heartbreak, internal conflict, and journey to love. Other
reviewers have stated the film was "dull" and "weak" - but those
reviewers also admit to fast forwarding and getting up. If they were
smart, they would've waited, because that is all part of the film's
magic. As a viewer, I felt like in the first 15 minutes I was at a
standstill. I felt like I didn't even know what I was watching, almost
uncomfortable. I can now say that was done intentionally. How would we
respond to hearing about the world, that we live in, ending in our near
future? With dullness, stillness, and discomfort. The weakness is
really a success on behalf of the filmmakers; the viewer is a character
in this madness. Steve Carell strengthens this to new extremes.

Keira Knightley is stunning. In physicality, but more importantly, in
her character, Penny. I was instantly in love with this free willed,
uppity character who says no to nothing but stands for everything good
in this world: risk, love, spontaneity. Her mixed conflict juggling
guilt, confusion, and optimism is portrayed impeccably through Keira's
teary-eyed, heartfelt performance is truly astonishing; her ability to
make the viewer feel as if they know her and relate to her is so
beautiful and overwhelming. Again, the filmmakers did a wonderful job
making the viewer feel as in love with her as other characters in the
story are. 

With these two spot-on, PERFECTLY cast performances, and a phenomenal
vintage soundtrack to top it all off, I was left crying multiple times.
I kid you not, I am a 16 year old male, cries at basically nothing, and
sobbed the last ten minutes of the movie and countless times
throughout. I highly recommend this to anyone who understands the
underlying beauty in our hectic lives, and appreciates the time to take
a step back and realize that life is short - and we are the lucky ones.
Love carries us through life, and it is in that state-of-being where we
are most in touch with humanity.

Moved. Touched. Overwhelmed. I will never forget watching this movie
for the first time.

What would you do with the rest of your life if you had limited time
left? After seeing this, I will make every second count.
<|_=00=_|>
Actually I had expected this to be somewhat more of a comedy, but it
turned out to be a much better experience than just another average
comedy. "Seeking a Friend for the End of the World" turned out to be a
very beautiful and emotional movie, with just a pinch of great comedy
added to spice it up.

The story is about the end of days approaching as an asteroid is bound
for Earth, and will destroy the planet upon impact. Dodge (played by
Steve Carell) finds himself abandoned by his wife upon this news and
tries to go on with his life for the last 21 days before the world
comes to end. He gets acquainted with a downstairs neighbor, Penny
(played by Keira Knightley) whom he haven't talked with for the past 3
years of living in the same apartment building. These two very
different spirits end up on a road trip together to get Dodge to his
high school girlfriend and get Penny aboard an airplane for Great
Britain. Their journey proves to be more than life changing.

The storyline for "Seeking a Friend for the End of the World" was
really great, and bizarre wonderful in a weird way. There is this whole
gloomy downtrodden feel to it as people are trying to cope with coming
to terms with life ending within 3 weeks. But at the same time, there
is such a strong emotional journey taking place as we follow Dodge and
Penny on their path to their destinations. The movie is driven by great
characters and by superb acting. There is just the right amount of
absurd and dark comedy to this movie that helps build up the right
atmosphere.

I was genuinely surprised by this movie. I knew that it wouldn't be a
horrible movie, because Steve Carell usually delivers great
performances and do good comedy. But his deliverance in this movie was
just phenomenal. He was so well-cast for this movie. As was Keira
Knightley, and their chemistry on the screen was just sizzling.

The movie also boasts some rather great cameo appearances, all of whom
really helped adding to the movie, by actors and actresses such as Rob
Corddry, Patton Oswalt, William Petersen and, of course, Martin Sheen.

"Seeking a Friend for the End of the World" is a definite
to-watch-movie for any movie aficionado, because it is very beautiful
and moving in many ways. I am really happy that I sat down to watch
this movie. And to top it off, this is the type of movie that leaves
you with a parting gift, something to think about; what would you do if
you only had 21 days left before the world ended?

Oh, and as a final note, if you are prone to tear in beautiful movies,
you might keep a tissue at hand for the ending of this movie. Just a
word of advice.
<|_=00=_|>
I found seeking a friend to be an excellent movie though I didn't
expect much after reading the storyline. The truth is I love Keira and
maybe this is why I enjoy her every movie. The movie develops
brilliantly as the main characters find their true love. We are all
trying to find love and probably this is the genuine meaning of life
itself. Also, I found Steve's performance really good as he managed to
balance Keira's childish character and put a serious mark on the whole
apocalyptic idea (though he is well-known for being a buffoon in his
movies). The ending left me in tears, but maybe that's just me being
silly. I would certainly recommend it ! One for the romantics !
<|_=00=_|>
There really isn't one aspect of the actual events of this story that
isn't some kind of spoiler, the less known the better. It's better to
watch this thing completely fresh. That's how I saw it and it made the
experience far better it would seem. Without getting in to detail, the
story itself starts off bizarre and it seems like they simply picked
the wrong subject to try and make a dramedy about. Yet, getting to know
and sympathize with Carell's character is what flat out makes the film.
Keira Knightley is wonderful and this is probably the best thing I've
ever seen her do.

The overall tone fights itself a LOT as it jumps from the morose to the
absurd to events that just aren't logical. Still, since no one has
faced the end of the world, what exactly is logical? They did
respectfully touch on the aspect of faith but it struck me more that
they went out of their way to avoid the subject for the most part. To
me, that's playing it way too safe. They did that a lot with many
subjects that you would expect to come up in an end of days film.
Overall, the movie has heart and elicited real emotion from me.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching an American picture about the end of the world and finding
that there is no concentration on things blowing up and exploding came
as a welcome relief if not a surprise.

This film is a little gem of a black comedy with some drama and
romanticism thrown in.

I only recognised two or three faces - but everyone of the players is
good and the two leads are superb. The male lead is of a character not
usually associated with the romantic and this brings out more of the
warmth.

Quirky, offbeat, lovable, zany and intelligent are some of the words I
would use to describe this entertainment - and entertain it certainly
does.

If this picture comes this way - grab it, you will love it.
