
Gulliver's Travels is fun, a fantasy, not taking itself seriously light
comedy. You won't learn anything, you won't cry, you won't witness
historic cinema in the making. You will spend an hour and a half
watching an enjoyable family film that doesn't pretend to be anything
more than a fun adaptation of an age old tale by Jonathan Swift.

I marked the film 7 because I enjoyed watching it, isn't that enough?
Must everything be critiqued so much that we lose enchanting family
films that just cheer us up momentarily.

Sometimes; Now this might upset the media studies students who seem to
be taking over IMDb, sometimes I don't want to have to concentrate on
plots and sub plots, sometimes I just want watch a film and escape for
a bit, is that OK with you, must everything be Cannes fodder? If you
want to have fun and watch a dumb romantic comedy watch Gulliver's
Travels, if you're an over serious sneering sceptic... don't. It's that
simple.
<|_=00=_|>
First things first: if you are watching Jack Black's version of
Gulliver's Travels because you're a fan of the original book, you might
want to skip it altogether. Gone is the literate and satirical edge
that has kept the story in print for over two centuries. Instead we
have a loud, brash, very "Hollywood" retelling in which the nearest we
get to satire is when Black topples backwards and squishes a
Lilliputian in his butt-crack. There are some very mildly amusing
moments in this film, but overall it is a regrettable example of the
direction major American studio releases seem to be heading. That is to
say: over-marketed, self-satisfied, bland nonsense, made with business
in mind and not the art of film-making itself.

Mailroom slacker Lemuel Gulliver (Jack Black) works in a huge Manhattan
editorial office. He spends most of his time quoting movies, playing
Guitar Hero, and wishing that gorgeous hotshot travel editor Darcy
Siverman (Amanda Peet) will notice him. One day, Gulliver realises that
he has spent the best part of ten years doing nothing with his life so
to impress Darcy he takes on a minor assignment investigating strange
goings-on in the Bermuda Triangle. During the trip, Gulliver's boat is
caught up in a strange oceanic vortex and flung into a strange
other-worldly kingdom known as Lilliput. Here the inhabitants are no
bigger than insects and Gulliver appears as a fearsome giant. Soon he
befriends the King (Billy Connolly), the Queen (Catherine Tate), the
Princess (Emily Blunt), and an honourable prisoner (Jason Segel). But a
slimy and untrustworthy military man, General Edward (Chris O'Dowd),
refuses to buy Gulliver's tall stories and plots to rid the land of
this new giant once and for all.

The fact that Jack Black is merely playing Dewey Finn from School Of
Rock, and transposing the character to another film, is just the
beginning of this film's problems. The overall acting talent wasted
here is enough to make a grown man cry. Connolly fails to raise a
single smile as the Lilliputian king, while Blunt (whose career so far
has been refreshingly sure-footed) is reduced to the level of a ditsy
bimbo. This will do her career no favours whatsoever. Segel, Peet and
especially O'Dowd are all equally guilty of frittering away their
talents in moronic roles. In terms of finding positive things to say
about the film, at least the special effects are pretty good, and there
are infrequent amusing moments (mainly references to other films, or
sprinklings of toilet humour). Overall, though, that's about as
positive as I can be. There's absolutely nothing wrong with the concept
of modernising Jonathan Swift's novel, but not if it's to be reduced to
this level of cheap vulgarity and simple-minded storytelling.
<|_=00=_|>
In the latest Gulliver go round ( there have been at least a dozen
variations since 1902) we have a production of enormous precise detail
vividly brought alive by state of the art special effects, grand set
design and lavish costuming all crushed by the uninspired casting of
the slobbering one note buffoon Jack Black in the title role. In his
pudgy mitts the Swiftian satire becomes another heavy handed,
predictable goof ball routine of sly eyed impishness and soft hearted
sweetness applied in the same manner as in the rest of his "zany"
canon. 

Lemuel Gulliver sets out for the Bermuda Triangle to prove himself as a
journalist and to win the heart of the girl of his dreams. Blown off
course by a raging tropical storm he finds himself on the the tiny
island of the tiny people, Liliput. Gaining their trust he is soon the
rage of the land improving infrastructure and counseling the lovelorn.
All goes well until he is challenged by General Edward and is
humiliated before all who look up to him. Can Gulliver redeem himself?
What's more important is that the filmmakers have enough story to fill
the second half with fun pyrotechnics.

Black's cuddly bear, man child grows more tiresome with each
performance and in Gulliver it's lights out early with the same boorish
routine the ubiquitous media gadfly projects whether playing a role or
doing an interview. Director Rob Letterman's film does have a precious
look and he does inject some nice Python humor here and there but it is
all obscured by Black's beached whale of a Gulliver. For lazy parents
looking for a baby sitter, the film might serve as that crazy and funny
uncle that can occupy the kiddies for two hours. Make sure though you
send them with an older sibling. Unlike this loser of a film it will be
a win, win for you to abstain.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this one in 3D. First thing you should know: there's no reason to
pay the extra money for the 3D version as pretty much the coolest 3D
stuff I saw that day (saw it last Saturday afternoon) was on the
trailer of the new Transformers movie. Second thing you should know:
I'm not familiar at all with the book or with any of the other movies.
Maybe that's why I'm one of the few ones here in IMDb who gave more
than 4 stars to this movie. 

Anyway, there's really nothing amazing going on here. The story is as
predictable as you can imagine and well, Jack Black is yet again
playing Jack Black. We all knew this, and frankly I don't think there's
a person who can't tell how is this movie going to be like before
seeing it.

I knew, and went to see it anyways as it was pretty much *the* movie of
2010's Christmas. I mean, I'm a sucker for Jack Black movies and even
though the trailer never really convinced me, I had to check it out.
Maybe The School of Rock and the Tenacious D movie (big fan of both)
were more than enough for the punk rock Jack Black but it seems is
inevitable to have him "rocking". So here some references to Guitar
Hero and KISS are present. Jack Black is put as a sucker for rock music
and movies, Star Wars especially. That simple thing delivers the best
moments of the movie: Gulliver making the Lilliputians act Stars Wars
and Titanic and perform as KISS. It ain't pop culture references heaven
but definitely delivers the goods (also some Avatar references were
funny). 

Gulliver's Travels may not be Jack Black's funniest movie, but in the
end it was just what I expected: a decent family entertainment that
will be soon forgotten but that is enjoyable to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Ever since I saw the trailer I wanted to see Gulliver's Travels. I love
Jack Black. I love Amanda Peet. I love the story. Turning Gulliver's
Travels into a 3D movie seemed like an excellent idea at first.

The story begins in New York. Jack Black  Star Wars and Guitar Hero
geek - has been working for ten years in the mailroom of a big
publishing company. He's secretly in love with an editor for travel
stories (Amanda Peet) and applies for a writing job just to impress
her. He gets it eventually by stealing text from an article from the
Time Out website. Soon he heads for the Bermudas for his try-out
assignment, writing about a man who knows the secret of the Bermuda
Triangle. Jack almost dies in a big storm and ends up on a beach
surrounded by mini people. Yes, Jack has arrived in Lilliput Land where
he will become the hero who saves the land from a nearby evil kingdom.
No spoiler there. 

Jack Black is the guy you love to love. And as a fan you really hope
that Gulliver's Travels is as good as the trailer promises.
Unfortunately, it isn't. Although Jack must use his dick to stop a
catastrophe (like in the original book)and he gets a tiny Lilliputian
right in his arse, this actually is a family friendly movie. Too bad, I
think, because the story that is presented is too safe to be
satisfactory entertaining and is almost without any suspense or
surprises. The best part is the opening credits. Here we see famous
scenes from Manhattan filmed with a special camera lens so it all
resembles a miniature city. It's an almost poetic beginning that is in
firm contrast with the rest of the story, that seems chaotic and
rushed.

When Jack arrives in Lilliput Land he does all the things you expect
him to do. He starts out as a prisoner. Becomes the hero. Falls out of
grace and leaves the Lilliput island, only to return and be the hero
one more time by entering a Wild Wild West like confrontation. Some of
the fun scenes with the tiny Lilliputians really work. The table-soccer
scene for instance, as seen in the trailer. And there's also a nice
scene in a theater that includes some funny spoofs on famous 20th
Century Fox movies like Empire Strikes Back and Titanic. In Lilliput
Land Jack makes his own Times Square, complete with posters from famous
movies and musicals. Real funny.

The problem with Gulliver's Travels is that all the elements are there.
The advantages of being a giant. The love story. The scene with the
boats on a string. But why is the story so unimaginatively predictable?
Just when things become interesting, a different problem should be
solved by our hero. The story goes to the left, then to the right and
could therefor use more scenes that prepare you for all the exciting
things that are about to happen. Nice example of this is when Jack gets
banned from Lilliput island. He's moved away by boat and arrives in a
land not filled with tiny people but with very well, you can do the
maths. It all happens so sudden and his escape from this island goes
even faster. No suspense here. And then the main love story. That Jack
Black really fancies Amanda Peet, that I can understand. I also believe
the fact that Amanda Peet thinks Jack Black is a real nice bloke. But
that she's secretly in love with him as well mmm, that wasn't
convincing at all.

True. Gulliver's Travels wasn't made to earn Oscars. And in the end
it's a nice family movie for the upcoming holidays. But with a better
script, better editing, a less moralistic ending and a more outrageous
Jack Black this could have been big. Now it's just another blockbuster
special effects comedy that you will almost have forgotten the moment
you leave the cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
2010 marks the year that 20th Century Fox hits rock bottom. With this
movie, if you can even call this a movie, Fox has become a degenerate
studio catering to drooling imbeciles with any lack of taste for films
in general.

Before I review this film in proper, let me list down Fox's
'achievements' for 2010: 1. John Davis. Enough said. This so-called
'uber-producer' who produces schlock for 20th Century Fox and its
incumbent incompetent chairman, Tom Rothman, is no Jerry Bruckheimer or
Brian Grazer. Look at his list of crap-fest. Garfield? Dr Dolittle?
Marmaduke? Norbit? Daddy Day Camp? And now this? He must be the king of
talking animal flicks and that includes Jack Black. Can someone please
stop him from producing anymore nonsensical rubbish? 2. Tom Rothman.
The man responsible for micromanaging and mismanaging every single Fox
misfire this year. Stipulating all films to run under 2 hours? Prince
Caspian was a masterpiece at 140 minutes and Dawn Treader sunk under
its light weight at 110 minutes. Same goes for X3. Whatever happened to
the 131 minute of a superhero epic we got for X2? Changing the title of
'Knight and Day'? And now a marketing executive takes the blame for the
film's underwhelming box office returns? Real smooth, Tom, real smooth.
Way to go for being a great helmsman in charge.

3. Every flick that 20th Century Fox put out somehow fizzled at the box
office. A-Team, Knight and Day, Marmaduke, Wall Street, Percy Jackson.
Not a good lineup considering that the studio is celebrating its 75th
anniversary. Not one classic. In comparison, look at Paramount's 1987's
lineup for its 75th Anniversary. The Untouchables, Planes Trains and
Automobiles, Fatal Attraction, Beverly Hills Cop 2. Now, this is the
way to go! I digress. Now back to Gulliver's Travels. The biggest
problem with this flick is that everything about it is cringe-worthy.
'Gavatar'? 'Homages' to practically all successful Fox movies? This is
pure shameless self-promotion and self-aggrandizement I have ever seen.
If this is a contemporary update of Swift's classic novel, it has
failed utterly and miserably.

Jack Black's ego is the problem here. He's still acting as a
good-for-nothing slacker who plays rock music all day long. Basically,
he's a momma's boy who has yet to grow up. Trying to play off his
'School of Rock' persona, I guess he wants to cater to the young. I
mean, the breakout into the rock number at the end of the film, serves
as an embarrassing reminder that Black needs to find an exit fast.

Emily Blunt is being reduced to nothing more than a pea-brained
princess whose intelligence rivals that of Hugh Laurie's 'Prince
mini-brain' in the Blackadder series. What a disappointing turn from a
hugely talented actress.

Jason Segal is still holding on to a job? All in all, a really awful
cinematic experience. Extremely forgettable. This film should be
analysed in film classes or even in movie executive conference rooms as
to how not to make a film.
<|_=00=_|>
In my lifetime, I've seen a few previous adaptations of "Gulliver's
Travels", 1) a series of short cartoons by Hanna-Barbera on the "Banana
Splits" TV program, 2) the Max Fleischer animated feature from 1939,
and 3) the NBC miniseries starring Ted Danson. And so, I've now seen
this new movie starring Jack Black which, unlike the others I've just
mentioned, initially takes place in modern day-New York City where the
title character is a mail room deliverer who yearns to be a writer for
the newspaper he works for but doesn't always put himself out there.
Oh, and he also has a crush on the stunning editor (Amanda Peet) whose
office he always passes through despite not always having mail for her.
Anyway, when he finally bluffs his way through an assignment, Black's
Gulliver uses a boat to go to the Bermuda Triangle where he finds
himself shipwrecked to an island...Guess where he winds up? Okay, I
didn't expect this movie to be faithful to the book at all especially
judging from the previews so I wasn't too disappointed on that point.
And I did find many scenes-especially those that parodied Episode V:
The Empire Strikes Back, Titantic, and the rock group KISS-pretty
funny. And Black, along with supporting players Emily Blunt, Jason
Segel, and occasionally Ms. Peet provide their moments. But if this was
your first time encountering Lemuel Gulliver, you'd definitely wonder
what was so classic about the book he's in (assuming you even knew
about it). Actually, I admit I only read about his adventures in
Lilliput and Brobdingnag since the book I borrowed from my elementary
school library was condensed to only those two adventures though like I
said, I did see the Ted Danson miniseries that also had his other
travels. So in summary, if you know what to expect from Jack Black, you
probably won't be too disappointed. Others, beware...
<|_=00=_|>
There is something brilliant about this project, something absolutely
brilliant. You will find it hard to locate in the storm of distracting
bad decisions elsewhere.

The bad? Well, you can read about that elsewhere. A cheap film factory
and story meets the three Jack Black jokes.

The clever idea is this: Black plays a character who is a repressed
nobody. In his own apartment, he acts out dramas from films with his
collection of action figures. He goes to sleep, and dreams  maybe not
because the fantasy doesn't need an explanation. He ends up in a land
full of people the size of his action figures.

Once there, he tells them stories about himself drawn from all those
movies, with him as the hero. They believe him of course. This is
somewhat interesting. The brilliant part is how he inverts the
inversion, by having the little people on stage reproducing scenes from
the films with him as the hero. Later, they build him a replica of his
real world as filtered through this lens.

The idea is pretty cool, and would have been worthy of something like
"Synecdoche" and Philip Seymour Hoffman.

How this could have been spliced to Swift's original vision is too
delicious. Swift was vulgar, offensive and unsettling in his truths.
There is none of Swift here. I actually would have preferred seeing
Travolta's Scientology disaster again rater than this. Cool idea
though.

Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3: You can find something better to do with
this part of your life.
<|_=00=_|>
I now know that the book Gulliver's Travels, written by Jonathan Swift
(1667-1745) in 1726, is a sharp social and political critic against the
contradictory customs from British government, but when I read it as a
kid, I simply found it to be an entertaining fantasy story with
imaginative situations and interesting adventures. Unfortunately, the
recent film version of Gulliver's Travels is very boring, and not even
the presence of Jack Black (whose style of comedy I usually enjoy),
could save it from its absolute mediocrity.

The screenplay from Gulliver's Travels is mainly a collection of
unfunny jokes based on the contrast between the main character and his
"hosts", not only in regard of his huge size, but also in his condition
of "fish outside the water". Oh, and everything gets worse when we lead
to the terribly ridiculous ending.

On the positive side, I have to mention that I liked the special
effects. However, that was not enough to compensate the boredom this
generic and insipid movie provoked on me, so in conclusion, I do not
feel like I can recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
A great classic story ruined by the Hollywood egomaniacs. With hundreds
of movies on television we made the mistake of venturing out on a
horrible day to watch this new version of Gulliver. Well here's my
review, I have just sat through this boring awful movie with my
grandson and consider it was a complete waste of time and £20-00. There
is nothing good I can say about this film. It goes to show that once
again the usual holiday hype has worked and people are being hooked in
to pay good money to watch rubbish.

It is sad that with all the money this movie must have cost to make,
the final result has turned out to be so dismal. Jack Black is mediocre
as Gulliver and unfortunately the rest of the cast look like they are
working under duress for an appearance fee. The one exception is Chris
O Dowd who stands out as the only redeeming thing in what has to be
this year's Christmas turkey.
