
Aegan is full of crap action and comedy.Ajith's previous film Billa was
far better than this one.Songs are good,but as usual Ajith has tried to
dance.The first 5 min Ajith with long beard was different,but it had to
be said that it is waste for the character.

Jairam was wasted with some crap comedy and Nayanthara tries to show
more and more of her body parts then her acting skills.the movie is
actually a remake of Main Hoon Na,But they have changed the screenplay
and the climax from the original.but this turned out to be the biggest
minus of the film.the climax is so awful that we start thinking why we
sat through this movie for 2 and a half hours

The youngster Piya and navdeep done their best.Ajith is so dull in the
movie ,reminding of his character in Billa.I didn't expect Ajith to
select a movie which lacks so many things.

There was so much talk about the movie before it released,but seeing
the movie now everybody must forget that they saw a movie named "
AEGAN"

Don't watch this crap,you could stay home and be happy with your family
rather watching this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
where is tamil cinema going if it makes movies like this? this movie is
good example of plain mediocrity in acting, directing, dialogues..etc
the first thing..why does ajith want to rope in a amateur director like
raju sundaram.. frankly he doesn't have a clue of what he's
doing..secondly..the story-line is utter idiocy..thirdly..though the
movie had some good scenes, it was blemished by some careless
acting..and finally..if you want to make a action movie please make it
more lively by adding some interesting frames..why does tamil movie
makers always stick to the same old masala formula? i think an actor
like ajith deserves a better story, direction,etc., coming to the
leading lady of this flick, nayanthara will not notch up a worse
performance than this..her acting skills have deteriorated since she
began to show interests on droping her clothes..coming to the important
sequences of the movie, i have to give credit to the director, the
whole bunch of actors looked like comedians though the story suggested
otherwise..now to put it in one line the movie is a
"action-comedy-thriller-romance-horror(for the viewers)-etc movie"..
the credit goes to the story writers for bringing all type of genres in
to single pile of rubbish...pls don't even watch this...

my rating is 2 on 10
<|_=00=_|>
Tamil film "Aegan" is supposed to be a remake of the Hindi blockbuster
"Main Hoon Naa". But, many changes have been made to suit Tamil tastes
and the image of the matin√©e idol Ajith.

Ajith plays a cop who, disguised as a student, is sent to guard a
superior officer's daughter from an underworld don. How he succeeds in
his mission is the long and short of "Aegan" - translated into English
by the star's fans as "one-man-army".

While Shah Rukh Khan played an army officer in the Hindi original,
Ajith plays a police officer as it obviously suits the present trend in
Tamil films. Shiva (Ajith) a CID (criminal investigation department of
the police), is on a mission to safeguard a college student (Piyaa)
whose father (portrayed by Devan) is a key link to a business tycoon
with underworld links (Suman).

In the college, Shiva falls for a beautiful lecturer played by
Nayanathara.The snide remarks by younger characters playing students
making fun of an "elderly" Ajith as "uncle" is a bit offbeat because
the movie star's fans are accustomed to seeing him in more youthful
roles. Ajith pokes fun at himself as well, pointing to the slight bulge
in his midriff. The family drama linking Piyaa with a guy of the same
college (played by Navdeep) forms the emotional anchor to the story
that follows the predictable climax in which the villain is finally
laid low.

The India-Pakistan link, shown so successfully in the Hindi original,
has been completely avoided in "Aegan". Ajith is agile but no patch on
Shah Rukh Khan. Choreography by Raju Sundaram and sibling Prabhu Deva
is excellent.

While Piyaa and Navdeep are passable, the show-stealers are Nayanathara
(thanks to her curves) and Jayaram (playing the bumbling college
principal provoking quite a few laughs).

Yuvan Shankar Raja strikes the right chords with his music. The
cinematography (credits shared by quite a few) is breathtaking.

Overall "Aegan" is a very bad remake of a hit movie. I have no clue
about how all the good comments for the movie came in here. Probably
put here by people connected with the movie or hardcore Ajith fans who
will let anything go however bad or unbearable it is!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Hello friends, I seen Aegan tamil movie.It is really a family
entertainer.Me gone with my family and all us liked the movie very much
especially the jokes played by Jairam.The film is nice to watch and it
caught many people's mind.The way fight sequence had made was
remarkable.I didn't expect this much performance from a debut Director
Raj Sundaram.Songs are really superb especially (hey sala),in which the
dance sequence and settings for the song is really colourful and mind
catching.Also the dance for the song (odum varayil ) is superb .I love
those songs very much.Ajith tried his best in doing all action and
comedies very well.Jai Ram is also supported comedies at his best.The
movie is really a family entertainer and joyful commercial movie to
watch.I liked the movie very much and its a Diwali gift for Ajith fans
and film lovers.Watch the movie and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
hello friends

Aegan is full of superb action and comedy.Ajith acted superbly in both
action and comedy.Songs really mind catching especially (hey sala)dance
was well performed by Ajith.The first 5 min Ajith with long beard was
superb at its best.Me shocked to see him in beard thinking that is he
really Ajith or not?.Jairam was excellent and Nayan thara done her
character well.The youngster Piya and navdeep done their best.Aegan is
good at the another box office hit for Ajith.I didn't expect Ajith to
perform this much.He really done a great job in Aegan.Wish everybody
Aegan as Diwali Hit.
<|_=00=_|>
Aegan is full of superb action and comedy.Ajith acted superbly in both
action and comedy.Songs really mind catching especially (hey sala)dance
was well performed by Ajith.The first 5 min Ajith with long beard was
superb at its best.Me shocked to see him in beard thinking that is he
really Ajith or not?.Jairam was excellent and Nayan thara done her
character well.The youngster Piya and navdeep done their best.Aegan is
good at the another box office hit for Ajith.I didn't expect Ajith to
perform this much.He really done a great job in Aegan.Wish everybody
Aegan as Diwali Hit.

Actually i am not a fan of Ajith but i liked the movie very much
indeed.The way movie has been taken is excellent and choreography is
good
<|_=00=_|>
Hello friends,

I had watched Aegan and it catched many people's mind.The way fight
sequence had made was remarkable.I didnot expect this much performance
from a debut Director Raj Sundaram.Songs are really superb especially
(hey sala),in which the dance sequence and settings for the song is
really colourful and mind catching.Also the dance for the song (odum
varayil ) is superb .I love those songs very much.Ajith tried his best
in doing all action and comedies very well.Jai Ram is also supported
comedies at his best.The movie is really a family entertainer and
joyful commercial movie to watch.I liked the movie very much and its a
Diwali gift for Ajith fans and film lovers.Watch the movie and enjoy.
