
"August: Osage County" is a stunning, powerful play written by Tracy
Letts - it rocked Broadway and won the Pulitzer Prize. And it's going
to rock a movie theater near you. This isn't a movie for everyone. It's
exhausting, it's full of really despicable people, and it's mighty
depressing. But the acting is so terrific, the roles so strong, that
you don't want to miss it.

It's the story of the Weston family: Violet, a drug-addicted cancer
patient (Meryl Streep); her husband Beverley, a well-known poet (Sam
Shepard); their daughters Barbara (Julia Roberts), Karen (Juliette
Lewis), and Ivy (Julianne Nicholson); Violet's sister Minnie Fae Aiken
(Margo Martindale), her husband Charles (Chris Cooper), and their son,
known as Little Charles (Benedict Cumberbatch).

When Beverley commits suicide, the family gathers and it's wretched
from the beginning. Violet is totally drugged, Barbara and her husband
(Ewan McGregor) are in the process of breaking up, Ivy has a secret
boyfriend and, though she stayed behind and has been caring for her
mother, she's ready to leave for New York, and Karen arrives with her
fianc√©e (Dermot Mulroney) who has been married three times and seems a
little too interested in Barbara's 14-year-old daughter. When Little
Charles arrives on a later bus than he was supposed to take, his mother
belittles him in front of everyone. Little Charles is considered a not
so little loser, and is the only likable one in the film.

Each daughter has reacted differently to having parents like Violet and
Beverley. Barbara is hard and tough like her mother, Ivy keeps her
feelings and desires to herself, and Karen is a dingbat looking for
love, probably in all the wrong places. The Aiken dynamic - obviously
Violet and Minnie were forced to grow up to be as tough and mean as
possible in order to survive; Charles is quiet with a fury underneath,
and Little Charles looks like he's going to break in two any minute. He
shares the same secret as Ivy: they're in love and planning to go away
together.

This is a grueling story of the destructive force of addiction, the
danger of anger, the hurt of betrayal, and the pain caused by keeping
secrets.

I was not fortunate enough to see the Broadway play so I can't compare
the performances. I thought Meryl Streep was terrific - it's the kind
of role actresses love, a sort of Martha in Virgina Woolf gone
completely haywire, and except for Helen Mirren and Judy Dench, there's
no one better to tackle it than Streep. Julia Roberts gives what is
probably her best performance. She's not a favorite of mine, and I
don't find her a particularly good actress, but she almost pulls this
off, probably because of the talent surrounding her. Margo Martindale
as the caustic and bitter Minnie, who reminds her niece that she's not
just her "fat old aunt" is sensational. Violet, Barbara and Minnie have
the showiest roles.

In the male roles, Sam Shepard, though his role is small, is elegant
and sympathetic, and Chris Cooper doesn't have much to do until a
showdown with Minnie, which is galvanizing. And Benedict Cumberbatch -
what can I say - I adore the man. He's a nasty villain in Star Trek and
here, an insecure young man who hates himself for his tardiness and
inability to keep a job. He's heartbreaking. He can do anything and he
proves it here as he sings -- yes, sings! -- to Ivy.

Your family, no matter the problems, will look like Leave it to Beaver
after you see this film. See it - enjoy the fabulous acting and be
grateful that you're not going home to anything like it. I hope.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was amazing. The cast, director, and cinematographer are top
notch. It will surely be nominated for several Oscars. I had a chance
to view it during a Film Festival and was excited that I got a ticket
to this sold out showing. But then, halfway through the movie, I nearly
walked out. 

The outrageous, violent, destructive behavior of the characters and
between the characters hit a little too close to home for my comfort.
For those who think the actions of the characters seem over the top,
let me assure you they are not. When you mix addiction, lies, and a
lifetime of pain, you get exactly this type of toxic concoction. 

I required multiple tissues to get me through to the end, but
ultimately I stayed (as a film lover, I could not bring myself to walk
out of such a wonderfully crafted movie). I'm glad I did.
<|_=00=_|>
Before I even start to talk about John Wells' new film "August: Osage
County," I have to say I've never seen the stage play or read it by
writer Tracy Letts. Following the screening, I felt it was important to
disclose. An all-star cast is assembled, all which have individual
moments to shine, which is surprising with a cast this size, and for
the most part, the film succeeds on multiple levels. Sure to be
divisive, "August: Osage County" is tenacious and beautifully
constructed. Soulful and unafraid to show the gritty and ugly of the
American family, Wells' film is utterly compelling. A must-see for the
awards season. An instant Oscar contender.

From the top to the bottom, this film exists and succeeds by its
performances. At the top of the heap and best in show is the stunning
and beautiful Oscar-winning actress Julia Roberts. Her turn as Barbara
Weston is in the top three performances she's ever delivered. Roberts
dives into herself in a way we haven't seen since "Erin Brockovich."
The narrative fully turns on her character and in the final half of the
film, she pulls the train through to the station. I'm incredibly
impressed with her work. Roberts is a revelation and reminds the world
how good she really is. A sure-fire Oscar contender.

As Violet Weston, a role played by Deanna Dunagan on Broadway, there
were high expectations to see what 3-time Academy Award Winner Meryl
Streep would bring to the role. For the past few years, I've begged for
Streep to "dirty it up" and play a role like this. A drug-addicted
matriarch who a gutter mouth lets Streep give a fresh take on a
character. Her performance is middle of the road for what Streep has
delivered in her career. That can mean different things to different
people. Middle of the road for Streep could be the best of any actor. I
walked out of the theater feeling the same way I felt following the end
credits of "Doubt." Streep excels in many areas of acting, but I feel
when it comes to stage adaptations to the big screen, Streep doesn't
live in the character as comfortably as she would in any other role.
There are times that the role does go a bit over-the-top. That being
said, Streep is still plenty great as she's been in other roles as of
late. She inhabits lots of Violet's beats and mannerisms and gives
dynamite exchange with some of her co-stars. It's a performance that
will surely land her another Best Actress nomination.

Trying to pick any of the supporting characters to single out is like
trying to pick your favorite child. Margo Martindale as Mattie Fae is
ballsy and spunky and its good to see an actor of her caliber finally
getting a chance to rip into a role like this. Her character reveals
the film's darkest secret which gives her an edge over some of her co-
stars, which Wells directs masterfully with DP Adriano Goldman.

I could eat Benedict Cumberbatch up with a spoon. As "Little Charles,"
he definitely has the narrative's most sympathetic story but more
importantly, in a film that is full of despicable people, he manages to
pull the audience in to root for him, even when you know he's doing
something terribly wrong.

I've longed for Juliette Lewis to get back in Oscar's graces following
her nomination over twenty years ago in Martin Scorsese's "Cape Fear."
She as dynamic as we've seen her in the last few years, delivering her
best turn yet as Karen. A true professional. Ewan McGregor continues to
elevate himself as one of our finest actors working today as Bill,
Barbara's estranged husband. As someone who is on the opposite side of
the rational spectrum when compared the Weston ladies, McGregor stands
out as a positive take. Unfortunately, he only gets one scene to really
let loose in a memorable manner. 

I can recall being floored by the work of Julianne Nicholson in the
little indie that no one saw, "Flannel Pajamas" nearly seven years ago.
I've never fully revisited her work since despite stints on
"Conviction" and "Law & Order: Criminal Intent." As Ivy, the one sister
that stayed behind, Nicholson embraces her natural and simplistic
mannerisms that give her role a much-needed arc in the narrative. In a
perfect world, we would be looking at Julianne Nicholson for serious
Oscar consideration.

Brief but all too clear as perfection, Sam Shepard ignites his brief
screen time as Beverly Weston, the patriarch of our family. Same could
be said for Misty Upham as Johnna, our Native American housekeeper
sitting as a silent observer.

Academy Award winner Chris Cooper shines when he takes on sensitive and
accessible performances. With a tough exterior but a soft and loving
emotional center, Cooper acts as an sentimental pillar to our tale. If
there is room for a man in an Oscar lineup from a film dominated by
women, he is likely it.

Director John Wells has a strong hold on the material. He understands
where he wants the narrative to go, putting an emphasis on the story
and letting any directorial styles take a backseat. It's definitely
appreciated in a story that has so many moving parts. Writer Tracy
Letts adapts his own play and in the second half really stretches out
his legs as the story takes shape for certain characters. The first
thirty minutes are rough. The dialogue isn't as quick as snapping your
finger. Some monologues run a little long and there are a pair of
instances where I checked out of the story for a moment.

The Weinstein Company have quite a gem on their hands. Lots of heart
and laughs, "August: Osage County" has the year's best cast ensembles
and is one of the year's best films.

Read More of the Review @ (http://www.awardscircuit.com)
<|_=00=_|>
Though nearly 40 minutes of Tracy Lett's Pulitzer Prize winning dramedy
have been shaved for the screen version, "August: Osage County" still
manages to deliver on the towering play's hearty laughs, gasp inducing
shocks, and well earned tears.

While it is hardly the best adaptation of a play to a film, as much of
the film still retains it's indoor, staging setting, it is boosted by
some sterling performances of actors at the top of their craft. Chris
Cooper and Margo Martindale are stellar, playing off each other with
deft and precise timing. Julia Roberts has not had this good of a role
in... ever, and she mostly delivers. Julianne Nicholson is both quiet
yet fiercely determined as middle daughter Ivy. Sam Sheppard is amazing
in the even more truncated role of the Weston family patriarch who goes
missing, and Misty Upham is so good with so little to say as the young
Indian woman, Johnna, tossed into a family in turmoil.

Of course the turmoil is led by the Medea-of-the-Midwest, Violet,
played for every ounce by Meryl Streep in one of her most indelible
performances ever. While viewers will surely be talking about the
"infamous" post funeral dinner scene, the price of admission should be
had for Streep's monologue late into the "second act," where she sits
with her daughters on a swing set and discusses the worst Christmas
ever: an acting class with the full gamut of emotion. 

Viewers may be equally divided by spending 130 minutes with such
unhappy people, but there are plenty of dark laughs in Letts'
screenplay to alleviate the tension. And with actors these good
interpreting the parts, "August: Osage County" is easier to swallow
than some awkward family dinners we've all had to attend at some point
in our lives.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an exceptionally challenging film and most won't be able to
stay with it as it hurtles, repeatedly, from hysterical comedy to
blackest tragedy in almost the same breath - the term "tragicomedy"
never fit a film so well ...

There are some stupendous performances here, Meryl Streep in particular
but Roberts is outstanding too amongst a superb ensemble cast - the
script is firecrackingly terrific and the (less is more when you've got
this much going on ...) direction is perfect too ...

You know something? I'm a 48 year old guy with way over a thousand
films under my belt and this may well creep into my all-time top 10,
it's that good ...

10
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, the acting, top to bottom, is flawless, but to what end? Although
it's being advertised as comedy it's drearily unfunny. It's creepily
like watching a look-at-the-rubes in Oklahoma, freak show. A miserable
collection of mean, addicted, distraught, and depressed family, which
as individuals, might be believable, but as a group is preposterous.
You wouldn't want to spend five minutes with any of them, let alone two
hours. And, no, it has nothing to say about addiction or family. It
seems to have little to say about anything except that the people on
screen can't stand to be with each other any longer than they have to,
and after this they won't see each other again. Lots of fun for the
cast, and maybe even an Oscar or two, hopefully at least a nomination
for Julianne Nicholson. No fun at all for the audience. This won a
Pulitzer and Tonys? I can't understand what anyone sees in this piece
of A list dreck.
<|_=00=_|>
"My wife takes pills, and I drink. That's the bargain we've struck."
Beverly Watson (Sam Shepherd)

Let the acting begin: As if the race had begun to determine the most
disaffected member of the most dysfunctional family ever depicted on
film, August: Osage County is the most violent film this year without a
drop of visible blood.

In order to pull off this Eugene O'Neil-Tennessee Williamsl-Sam
Shepherd-like dramatic version of Tracy Letts' play (Letts is the
screenwriter as well), director John Wells needed to have an A-list
cast; he does just that. In arguably the best acting of the year, Meryl
Streep plays Violet Weston, the drug-addled schizophrenic matriarch of
a family where dinners end up with broken plates and hearts. Although
her performance is a tour de force (when are hers not?), the Oscar may
elude her this time because her character is so unlikeable, and, well,
she eats most of the available scenery.

Heading the rest of the cast is Julia Roberts as daughter Barbara
Weston, a soon-to-be-divorced realist absorbing the punches of mom and
Barbara's Pippi-Longstocking-chasing husband (Ewan McGregor) until she
almost can't take it anymore. This is the best acting of Roberts'
career. 

As if the challenges were not enough for a Thanksgiving in any of our
families, Juliann Nicholson's Ivy Watson is so vulnerable that she has
fallen for first cousin, Charles (Benedict Cumberbatch), a liaison
discouraged by the family rank and file, whose ethical button is pushed
by such irregularity but never their alcoholism and verbal abuse
buttons.

The ultra-emotional violence and the pervasive shouting may turn away
some delicate-souled audience members, but for me a language lover,
sparring at the dinner table is delightful out-of-control wit. Acerbic
to be sure, but not dull.

Barbara encapsulates the horror of the family: "Thank God we can't tell
the future, or we'd never get out of bed."
<|_=00=_|>
In the late 19th century a common playwriting trope was to build a play
to moments of tremendous intensity where the star would astonish the
audience with the brilliance of his or her acting. The plays had no
real purpose other than to provide those moments; there was no dramatic
core, no purpose to them other than that. Those kinds of plays, like
"The Count of Monte Cristo", which O'Neill skewers in "Long Day's
Journey Into Night", are dismissed today as tripe, as dated and
manipulative nonsense.

"August: Osage County" is exactly that, only modern and written for an
ensemble cast rather than for a single star. Sure, the acting is very
good, but so what? Who cares? Where's the story? What's the point? Why
are we spending time with these people? 

Understand, my complaint is not that "August: Osage County" is
depressing, it's that it's cheap. Many fine movies are miserably
depressing, but they're honest, they're driven by something other than
a desire to create 'actory' moments; "The Swimmer" comes to mind, as
does "The Night Porter", and "Enemies: A Love Story", and "The Bicycle
Thief", and "Ikiru"... This thing, on the other hand... it feels like
Tracy Letts just piled misery upon misery upon misery for no reason
other than his belief that that gets you taken seriously. And
considering the awards the play received, he was right, which hardly
speaks well for the state of dramatic criticism.

At one point (spoiler ahead), after he's already been larding the
suffering on with a trowel for quite a while, there's a death scene --
and while watching it I just couldn't help myself, I laughed out loud.

Seriously, what is the point of this? In playwriting class, the first
principle they teach is that "drama is the day the change occurred". In
other words, if there is no chance of change, if the characters (at
least the protagonist) are not wrestling with an inner conflict that
could resolve itself several ways, then there is no drama. That's the
case with "August: Osage County". You might as well be watching a
B-Western for all the real depth there is to the characters. Each time
you're introduced to a character (with one or two very minor
exceptions) you know exactly who they are now and exactly who they'll
be at the end of the movie. It's just 'sound and fury, signifying
nothing'.

In a word, trash.
<|_=00=_|>
August: Osage County is a miserable experience. For all it's incredible
acting talent, what has been given to them is a family drama about
people so petty and hateful that sitting at their dinner table is like
being on a bus with a bunch of mean drunks. Trailers for this movie
would have you assume that this is a movie about a family that learns
the meaning of bonding. It's not. This is a movie about a lot of
spiteful, hateful, bull-headed, mean-spirited people who spend their
time together throwing mean, hurtful insults at one another like a
family reunion edition of "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" Based on
the Pulizer Prize Winning play by Tracy Letts (who also penned the
screenplay) - August: Osage County works through the playbooks of
Eugene O'Neill, Anton Chekov, Thorton Wilder and Edwin Albee, imitating
their works but, not honoring them. Letts replaces human feeling with
cuss fights, and we're left at the dinner table with people we with
would just go away.

The story takes place in the far-flung, sun-baked landscape of
Oklahoma, where we meet a long-married couple Violet and Beverly Weston
whose connective marital tissue is that they enjoy hating one another.
Beverly (Sam Shepard) is a poet who has a loving relationship with his
booze. Violet (Meryl Streep) is suffering from mouth cancer and is
taking so many prescription drugs that she's become an addict. We
sympathize because of her condition but, in truth, Violet is a vile,
bitter woman whose entire vocabulary is made up of acid-tinged insults
that she happily flings at anyone in her hemisphere ¬ñ the fact that she
has mouth cancer is both literal and a metaphor.

Beverly goes out on his boat one day, but doesn't come back alive ¬ñ
some say accident, other say suicide. Upon his death, a flock of
relatives descend on the Weston home, including Violet and Beverly's
three daughters: Barbara (Julia Roberts) who is just as bitter as her
mother; Ivey (Julianne Nicholson) who is solemn and quiet most of the
time; and Karen (Juliette Lewis), a giddy chatterbox who is forever
bragging about her honeymoon. Also around are Beverly's brother Charles
(Chris Cooper), Violet's sister Fanny (Margo Martindale), their son
Little Charles (Benedict Cumberbatch); Barbara's cheating husband Bill
(Ewan McGregor), and his 14 year-old daughter Jean (Abigail Breslin).
Take a good look at the talent involved here and consider that much of
the movie has these people either shouting or hitting one another.
Worse is that they are so predictable that you start counting the
minutes until someone throws a dinner plate.

There are a lot of personal problems among this family; grudges,
dormant feuds and petty arguments that come to light as this family
gathers. Somewhere you might have reason to expect some measure of
understanding. You expect some resolution, but it never comes. After
the funeral, the family gathers at Violet's dinner table for a long
scene that is so unpleasant that you want to put your fingers in your
ears. Violet seats herself at the head of the table and begins an
argument with Barbara so hate-filled and angry that we're not surprised
when it ends with the two of them in a violent confrontation on the
living room floor. The rest of the family is no better. Over the next
few days, they take the opportunity to air their dirty laundry, so we
get horrifying revelations of mistaken paternity, pedophilia,
infidelity and even incest.

It is never a requirement that all movie characters must be likable,
but there must be some emotional foothold for the audience. What did we
do to deserve these people? While it's true that the familial
bitterness is generational (the movie makes the abundantly clear)
shouldn't there be someone with the sense to put it to an end? The
family grudges and fights send the family members scattering back to
their respective lives, leaving only Violet and Barbara. Both are
husbandless and have the potential to find comfort in one another. But,
it never happens. By the end, the one character we have come to
sympathize with is Beverly. He has opted out of the family sickness
and, much to our surprise, we kind of understand why.

*1/2 (of four)
<|_=00=_|>
I've never seen the play on which this film is based so in a way it was
good to come to this film really knowing nothing more than "people are
saying this is good so maybe I should go see it". The plot sees a
deeply dysfunctional family of strong-willed and vitriolic women coming
back together in the wake of a family tragedy. Resentment, past hurts,
bitterness and vitriol are the underlying themes as the family sits
around the dinner table. I shan't say too much more than that ¬ñ not
because the plot is best left unknown (although it is) but more because
there really isn't too much more actual plot to worry about and instead
the film is more about the characters and a study of the family.

In some ways this is a bad thing and it does make the film feel long
and rather lacking in a narrative drive. I can understand why many have
found it dull and low on direction and focus but for me personally I
thought that the strength brought about by this approach was just about
enough to overcome the weaknesses inherent in it. That strength is
simply in the way that it takes a very talented group of actresses,
puts them together and gives them some really strong scenes to get
their teeth into. Additionally, and I don't mean to be rude, but this
group is of an age which Hollywood casting agents generally starts
forgetting exists due to their age. As a result of this the film almost
always engages in the moment or in any specific scene as we see
instantly recognizable characters lash out at each other, playing out
old patterns of hurt in a way that we are able to recognize them as
"old patterns" even though we as viewers are here for the first time.
So as a collection of scenes, the film is almost always working well ¬ñ
it is just when it has to come together that it doesn't do quite as
well.

Despite this it is great to watch the cast go at it. Streep is great as
usual and is utterly convincing as someone so engrained in patterns of
behavior and carrying so much pain in her that it has affected
everything ¬ñ OK the cancer and the "eating pain" stuff may make it a
bit too obvious, but even still she is good at what she has to do.
Roberts is not quite on that level here but is still very strong while
Nicholson and Lewis do well with big supporting characters. Martindale
may not be as big a name (or role) but those that watch Justified
already know she has presence and she holds her own here really well.
The male cast are very much second fiddle but there are still good
turns throughout from Cooper, Shepard, Cumberbatch, Mulroney and
McGregor. The risk is that the cast feels too heavy with stars, but
they are all so convincing that once they had been on screen for a
little, I was more focused on the character than the career.

August Osage County is one of many films getting hyped up around the
awards period and as with many films it is not as perfectly brilliant
as you'll be told it is. The narrative does move but the film always
seems happiest when it is just sitting and letting the family be
themselves and as a result it does move slowly and perhaps the story
lacks real impact. However, just as the film is happy, so are the cast
and the strong individual scenes give plenty for the cast to work with,
and they return the favor with a really strong ensemble feel that is
engaging and convincingly laced with hurt and anger ¬ñ and it is this
that makes the film strong and worth a look.
