
It took my wife nearly a week of constant begging to take her to see
Eclipse. After having endured the first two movies and the subsequent
years of self therapy to erase the memory, it took a lot of persuasion
to guilt trip me into seeing this one as well.

Needless to say, I entered the movie theatre mentally preparing myself
for two hours of torture. Frankly, Eclipse was just as bad as I had
expected despite reassurances from female co-workers that "It is much
better than the last one... honest." I've never read the books nor do I
plan to. I know nothing of the author however, I'm guessing she started
writing this stuff when she was a twelve year old girl with delusions
of what love should be.

This entire movie is nothing more than a very poorly written romantic
dilemma, wrapped in a weak premise of vampire and werewolves in an
attempt to lure extra interest. So far as stories go this one has no
vigour or power what-so-ever. Depth? I've stepped in deeper puddles.

Approximately 80% of this movie is dedicated to examining the lead
female's conflicting emotions. Does she want the vampire or the
werewolf? Does she understand the lifestyle choice that comes with that
decision? Is she willing to accept the risks? Does she understand the
impact it will have on those around her? And finally... does anyone at
all actually care? Yup, for two whole hours. (Six if you include the
first two).

So surely this movie has some redeeming features? Perhaps the acting?
Wrong. Stewart's (Bella), emotions range from mildly irritated to
slightly concerned whilst trying to maintain an air of vulnerability
that irritates instead of earning sympathy. For Pattinson (Edward),
it's all about just looking pretty and his acting skills are reduced to
nothing more bowing his head slightly so that he always appears to be
gazing upwards in an attempt at looking intense. As for Lautner
(Jabob), well we all know he can't act so he is reduced to a shameless
and topless eye-candy prop.

In summary? Women are from Venus and men are from Mars. If you're a
guy, you'll hate this. If you're a woman... you might like it. I'm not
trying to belittle the sexes, it's just that type of movie.

Anyway, the wife can beg all she wants... there ain't no way I'm taking
her to see the fourth one!
<|_=00=_|>
It's just a plain awful movie and there is nothing good about it. The
acting is weak, the visual effects are poor (the second one had better
production value but the fact still remains that surely that is not a
decisive factor in generating an audience), and the story itself is so
mild. I'm not even going to harp on the issue that it holds completely
untrue to all vampire rulings. There is nothing dark, enchanting, sad,
nor even eternally romantic (mostly for femme auds granted) about this
telling. Even the chemistry between Edward, Bella, and Jacob is so
unapparent. Taylor Lautner and Robert Pattinson in no way sell that
they are eternal arch enemies and Kristen Stewart is so uncharismatic
and unable to connect to the character of Bella (I have read the books
and they are far better). It's just a weak update on Romeo & Juliet
aimed at generating teen female obsession. Anyone who is not a die-hard
tween fan, that I've ever spoken too, concurs that they just don't get
it.
<|_=00=_|>
As bad as the first Twilight was this is a whole new level. The bland
and tedious characters lack chemistry, life, personality which sort of
makes sense because most of them are undead.

The film continues Bella's meaningless coin flip decision between Jacob
the skin-walker (I refuse to refer to these as werewolves) and Edward
the fairy. Every sentence out each character's mouth, particularly the
main characters, is stilted and stale. They can't even articulate their
lines let alone deliver them with any depth - not that there is any
depth to the script or story here, there isn't.

Even the fights are bland with vampires getting snapped apart like they
were porcelain dolls and the only main threat of the movie - an army of
New Born vampires - ending up being overcome with GREAT EASE. Also the
division of the skin-walkers and "vampires" is suddenly bridged,
there's no exploration of the issues between their kind or how to
resolve them, just a randomly quick decision to work together despite
the fact they hated each other a moment ago.

The film's focus, instead of the parts that might have proved
interesting, is in the emotionless and empty romance between two
obscenely pale individuals and the muscular third wheel. Any attraction
I could have had to Kristen Stewart is erased by her terrible delivery,
empty eyed stare and general lack of emotion.

Bland from start to finish and painful to anyone who genuinely likes
good films. If you are brave enough to see it I recommend drinking
something that will erase the memory and numb the pain afterward.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, my experience in seeing this movie was particularly excruciating
because I was stuck in a theatre of people who kept either groaning,
cooing, or yelling advice to the characters on screen at the top of
their lungs. But even with that aside, what few other people will be
likely to say still deserves to be said: this movie sucked big hairy
werewolf balls. Unfortunately, trying to explain why would take up a
lot more words than I've managed to cram in, so I can only focus on the
main issues. For starters, Bella has become increasingly unlikeable
since we saw her last, and as she's the central protagonist around whom
all the ensuing events revolve, that's going to be a problem.
Originally a great character in the first two films, her appeal here
takes such a massive nosedive that, no joke, it actually becomes hard
to fathom why exactly everybody around her is risking their lives for
her safety. Her constant lack of consideration for certain people
(particularly her long-suffering dad) is getting exceedingly grating.
There were a number of moments in which I wanted to bite her neck
myself just to shut her up. The scene (spoiler) in which she punches
Jacob because he kissed her was the last straw for me - I hardly think
that that warrants a punch considering that he can't help being in love
with her, especially since, deep down, she loves him as well. The
little trout deserved to get her hand sprained. But no, he still
apologises, and not just for the kiss but for the fact that punching
him sprained her hand. How predictable and how pathetic.

Bella's love affair with Edward - previously of the "I would die for
you" calibre - is now peppered with so many inconsistencies that it's
losing its enjoyment value. For example, as we've learned in movies 1
and 2, Bella is so in love with Edward that she's a) willing to
overlook the fact that he's not human; b) willing to overlook the fact
that he's killed people; and c) give her own life to save his as she
did at the end of New Moon, but when he finally proposes marriage to
her she's hesitant? And the reason? Well apparently because she's still
young, being only 18. Funny, 'cause I would've thought that 18 is also
a young age to contemplate relinquishing your mortality in favour of
becoming a vampire for all eternity. But it's OK, because (another
spoiler) she eventually accepts; and in doing so, says, "I will bind
myself to you in every way humanly possible" - but when he addresses
her as Mrs. Cullen she suddenly tells him that she wants to keep her
own name? She'll sacrifice life and limb for him but not do THAT?

The cheesiness of this film was also a step up - everything is
cheapened to the level of a corny soap opera. They ALL deserve Razzis.
CONSTANT long silences, hard stares, and stupid dialogue. My sister
actually turned to me at one point during the movie and said, "Shades
of Wuthering Heights" because everything about this plot is so
exasperating. Why doesn't Edward stay mad at Bella after she kisses
Jacob? They have ONE discussion about it (actually it's not even a
discussion, just a series of comments) and then by the end of the movie
they're happily reunited without a single cross word. I would think
that kissing Jacob would put Edward's nose out of joint just a LITTLE,
considering that she's supposed to be his reason for living and future
bride!

You should also be prepared for the fact that, as is typical in most of
these cases, they try to shove far too much into the storyline.
Simplify, guys: if you're going to take a few minutes to explain
Rosalie's backstory to us to give us some more insight as to why she is
the way that she is, then leave James' backstory until the next movie.
The need to stop every once in a while to explain another supporting
character's history is exceedingly disruptive, and doesn't really bring
anything integral to the plot anyway (for example I found that I still
didn't give a rat's ass about Rosalie even after finding out what
happened to her). It just makes it longer, more tedious, and prone to
losing your attention.

Maybe I'm just not this movie's core demographic. It IS for tweenies
after all. But there's another problem: considering that this film is
supposed to be for tweenies, the violence is sometimes surprisingly
full-on. There's a scene involving a decapitation which I won't go into
the gruesome details of, but let's just say that it could easily
qualify as the "Holey s**t!" moment of the year. So even the movie
itself seems to forget who it's for. The special effects are impressive
of course, the visuals are creative and the direction is fine; but
scratch beneath this glossy surface and there's just too much
frustration at the hands of the script, the characters and their
actions to make this movie tolerable to sit through. And, because the
characters and their actions are the primary crux of this story, you
never get a minute's peace.

Quite simply, I am so OVER Twilight man. I'm done. That's it. Up until
this point I'd actually been quite enjoying the franchise, but the
abomination of this third installment has soured my interest so much
that...you know what? I'm going to go watch Little Ashes, because the
sight of Robert Pattinson making out with a guy is just what I need to
shoot dead anything that reminds me of this idiotic movie. Awful.
<|_=00=_|>
Eclipse was by far my favorite book in the saga. As a guy, I felt it
had the perfect blend of action, romance, drama, and suspense. The
movie did try to stay true to the book as much as possible but I feel
it still lacked what made the book great.

The acting is definitely better over the last two. I still feel a
little awkward watching Bella. Edward definitely has gotten better.
I've gotten several good laughs out of the movie. Got some nice
flashbacks of other characters. But it still lacked overall magic for
me.

The things I feel is missing from the movie is suspense and chemistry.
The love triangle is back and was a bit more entertaining now that all
three of them are interacting more. But I still find the lack of
chemistry between the characters glaringly obvious. I often had to
think about my feelings back when I was reading the book to fortify
what I saw on screen. In my opinion, they used too many words(and
dialogue from the book) to describe what's going on instead of
SHOWING(acting) us what's going on.

The climax in the book was what made Eclipse my favorite of the saga,
however, I can't say the same for the movie. The climax was
disappointing and anti-climatic. Such dramatics for a walk in the park.

I still feel the movie deserve the theater experience but I won't say
boo to waiting for DVD release.
<|_=00=_|>
These movies keep getting lamer and lamer. They should have stopped at
Twilight, that's my fav from all of them.. and seriously now, Kristen
Stewart desperately needs some acting lessons. I liked the books, easy
reading, entertaining.. but the movies, oh man, so disappointing. The
same expression on Robert's face throughout the entire movie, lame
attempts from Kristen to act..

At least they did a bit better with the make-up this time around. And
the wigs looked OK.

oh yeah, I love Dakota Fanning's acting, she is awesome. And Billy
Burke is a God. Charlie is my favourite character. His lines in Eclipse
(the movies) were pretty good as well.

Yeah.. but mainly, it sucked. I don't even want to think about how bad
Breaking Dawn will suck.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's be honest - It's RUBBISH! All this saga was calculated on 12-15
years old teenager girls, which love to watch Crap like this. ,,OH what
a Lovely screenplay, oh my god" - No, you are wrong, screenplay sucks,
it's another romantic movie with special effects and billions of
dollars. Like once David Duchovny said in ,,Californicatin" it's
another ,,Twilight Boolsheet"! There are no Vampires, and no such awful
Love stories between girl and vampire. if you want to watch movies
exactly about Vampires watch ,,From Dusk Till Dawn", which is billion
times better than this crap.

Acting - sucks, screenplay - sucks, story - sucks, music - sucks,
effects- nice. I enjoyed only special effects in those moving pictures
(somebody calls twilight movie :D ). So I must say, that if we give
money which was spent to make this rubbish, to homeless people world
will be good enough.
<|_=00=_|>
When "Twilight" came out back in 2008 I became immensely curious in the
franchise (even though I'd never read the books) due to the
overwhelming hype from the fans. After the viewing I felt that the film
was left very hollow and weighed down by the sub-standard acting, iffy
directing, sloppy editing and overall adolescent melodrama. It felt
incomplete but as though it wanted its creators to try harder and
become a developed rendition of the books. Regardless, I saw the
possibility of potential and found myself interested in seeing where
the series would go in the future. "New Moon" was released last year
and I had actually bubbled up a sense of excitement from watching the
trailers. It came off as a new and improved version of the original
with a much more interesting story; I couldn't have hit further from
the mark if I tried. Completely immersed underneath terrible acting,
absolutely sloppy editing, gut-wrenching writing, mediocre directing,
god awful story development, empty CGI and a go-nowhere-at-all story
only meant to tug at the heart strings of pre-teens, "New Moon" was
instantly put on the list of worst films I had ever seen in my life. I
had become completely turned off by the idea of seeing this franchise
grow any further. Alas, my OCD personality refuses to let me start a
film series and walk away from it so it was inevitable that I
hesitantly saw "The Twilight Saga: Eclipse".

Almost immediately I realized that this film's atmosphere is a
barricaded roundabout of re-hashed dialogue and one-track character
directory. Nothing intellectual or invitingly new is dropped into this
pot of love triangles, cardboard characters, and afterthought plot
development. It's one of the largest problems with the film; nothing is
unique. The seemingly "main story" is introduced slowly over the course
of almost two hours through five to ten minute segments that feel like
nothing more than meaningless bursts to keep people on their toes.
These sporadic bursts of story come at you in between the same drivel
we've heard in "New Moon". Bella (Kirsten Stewart) to Edward (Robert
Pattinson) to Jacob (Taylor Lautner) back to Bella and Edward and
Edward to Jacob and Jacob to Bella and Edward and Jacob and Bella to
Edward. Continuously talking about fighting for their love and no sex
before marriage and preparing for battle but really doing nothing and
"She loves me but she's too afraid to admit it" and "She loves me more
but I'm not sure about myself." It's this childlike, empty conversation
between characters with similarly empty, childlike personalities that
makes the entire movie feel like a giant fantasy advertisement; an
enormous, over dramatic, pre-teen wet dream.

The characters are the second biggest issue with this film and even
though in second place, it's by far the most irritating problem. I
cannot recall the last time I cared for characters so little in a
series of any sort. This movie has a running time of an hour and
fifty-five minutes, minus the credits and not once do any of the
characters deviate from the one-tone personalities that are painted for
them. The same over the top emotions that cause the same loop-de-loop
interactions that actually get so bad that you feel as though you're
watching the same scene over and over and over and over again. It's
cursed by a formula that should have been dropped after the first film
because there was potential to create characters an audience would be
interested in but that ship sailed and crashed; no survivors.

Alongside cookie cutter personalities and what tries to pass off as an
in-depth story of revenge, love and redemption, is a near beautiful but
one dimensional environment. I was really confused by this film's
physical appearance and the tone it was attempting to create. The
scenery is something to behold but is masked by too much use of blue
tones, bloom lights and green washing. The werewolves have got some
excellent CGI going for them and at first glance you wouldn't be able
to guess that they aren't real. As the film progresses though, you
begin to lose the feeling of reality with these creatures. It's almost
as if they aren't there and there's no physical depth or strength to
them. This weightlessness become very apparent during the
overwhelmingly dull, cliché and emotionless fight scenes. Everything
about the atmosphere contradicts itself and this became very
frustrating to watch. I do have to give credit to the film makers for
putting enough effort into making the environment look much more
attractive than the previous installments.

Overall most of what made "New Moon" a total catastrophe has been
worked on in "Eclipse" and it is indeed a better film than its
predecessors. The problem with this analysis is you're comparing one
personal experience with a train wreck to another; in the end it's
still covered in smoke, fire, dismay and you're hoping to get out
alive. The acting has improved but the delivery of almost the entirety
of the film's dialogue is rubbish or cringe worthy. The editing has
gotten better and the pacing feels more cinematic but the story itself
completely veils this upgrade, making it nearly unnoticeable. Changing
the directors was possibly the best choice made here because the film
feels much more professional and mature; again though, we're talking
train wrecks here. If you're a fan of the series thus far, I'm sure
you'll enjoy this installment. If you're a fan of the books, maybe you
will too. If you're anybody else I would highly suggest, at this point,
steering clear of this series entirely and maybe picking up the books.
<|_=00=_|>
I've always hated the twilight series, because its like a travesty to
good vampire movies. but my sister asked me to go and watch this
garbage with her, so i thought i would indulge her. and now let me say,
Cinema has taken a turn for the worst.

Again this movie is about some pale girls choice between bestiality and
necrophilia. it has no slightly interesting story or anything else. The
acting is terrible, Vampire dude looks like a queer, chick looks like a
corpse and Poochie looks like a douche, and they all have the acting
talent of a hairdryer.

and now maybe my worst complaint of all. VAMPIRES DO NOT FREAKING
SPARKLE WHEN THEY ARE IN SUNLIGHT, WHATS THE MATTER BURNING THEM OR
MAKING THEM EXPLODE IS TO GOOD FOR YOU.

as you may well have noticed I'm not a fan of this movie, i am a fan of
good vampire movies like, Nosferatu, Dracula and from dusk till dawn.
and at least i still have those non sparkling epic vampire movies.

point is vampires don't sparkle.
<|_=00=_|>
"I know the consequences of the choices you're making." Edward to
Isabella

Although more fight action is apparent in the change from the last
sequel (New Moon, 2009), to the new Twilight Saga: Eclipse, it is a
film in eclipsethe story is so slow as to make you feel drained of
blood, Kristen Stewart (Bella) has even fewer expressions than in
previous Twilights, Taylor Lautner (Jacob) seems to have gone from a
six pack to a four, and Robert Pattinson (Edward) is less James Dean
than when he never had a chance to be like him anyway.

In other words, this slow tale of teenage vampires and werewolves in
heat has too little heat, but rather is in its own twilight. The
close-ups of the brooding teens have proliferated, to the extent that I
have memorized Edward's mouth (or lack thereof), Bella's drooping eyes,
and Jacob's overly-white teeth. All my memorization occurs because I
needed to stay awake during the dullest scenarios since, well,
Twilight. Actually I called that one "enjoyably overcooked." This one
is underdone.

Eclipse has an increased emphasis on teenage uncertainty: Bella must
decide who she wants to be, human or vampire (a variation of the film's
existential subtext), whether or not to marry Edward, and how much she
loves Jacob, more specifically, can she love two boys at once. It's
authentic teen dilemma centered on fitting in with the crowd and the
opposite sex. To the film's credit, she and Edward postpone sex until
after marriage because Edward is "old school" about those matters (as
opposed to killing piles of animals each night to sustain his 100
year-old body). 

When Edward proclaims to Bella, "Isabella Swan, I promise to love you
every moment of forever," I have the feeling it's a warning to me that
at least two more sequels are being planned. I guess that's why the
vampires and their movies seem to last so longthe undead and the
Twilight continue to suck blood out of pop culture.
