
Our Family Wedding is a grim prospect on its face: a frantic wedding
movie meets an uproarious culture clash movie, where two patriarchs -
the smooth African-American and the fiery Latino - do hilarious battle
and then there's some romance somewhere. It fails to deliver even on
that meagre promise. Forest Whittaker and Carlos Mencia play the
fathers of young lovers Marcus and Lucia (Lance Gross and America
Ferrera) who return home to L.A. to announce their surprise engagement
and plans to be married immediately. Things get complicated, when we
learn that Lucia's family don't really like black people, and Marcus'
father, a neat-freak radio DJ-cum-ladies'-man, doesn't like Mexican
people. Predicaments predictably follow, in the proper order and to
factory specifications.

Despite a legitimately (for the most part) talented cast and a set-up
almost guaranteed to be worth at least a few forced laughs, the film
manages to be almost completely devoid of humour. It's a punishing,
depressing display. The film knows what beats to hit, and tries with
heroic, military determination to hit them only to fail, every single
time. We're presented with the really uncomfortable knowledge that the
film knows it should be funny, here, here and here, and is really
trying, honest - see how the goat tries to have sex with the fancy
man!? - but just can't quite haul it's hackneyed self anywhere close to
an actual laugh. It's ugly and it tries to make you complicit in its
ugliness, like when you walk in on your roommate three quarters of the
way through an extra large pizza and they try and make you eat the last
slice.

To do the obvious thing and fail at it is the worst thing an artist can
do. To offer a thin-gruel compromise to your audience, to say "here's a
trite, rote ethnicity-clash wedding comedy that you know will be
derivative but what else are you going to watch come on it can't be
terrible" and then to hand them something terrible is just... rude. To
ask us to watch Carlos Mencia flail his way through a grim, graceless
Mr. Hulot-inspired bit of non-comedy is mean, and makes us feel badly
about ourselves and the choices that brought us here.

One bright spot: Anjelah Johnson as the tomboy sister of the bride is
the only actor in the film that's able to wring a couple of laughs out
of it, and the sisters' relationship is one of the only interesting
things in a film that's otherwise not much more than a grim procession
of joyless clich√©s. 2/10
<|_=00=_|>
Do not pay attention to the ridiculously low rating this film has
accumulated. It's hardly one of the best movies you'll ever see, but it
is overall much more enjoyable than not.

The young leads are a charming, believable couple, and you do root for
them.

I thought the more obvious (meaning unfunny) racial jokes were actually
kept to a respectable minimum, considering that culture clash is the
main premise of the movie.

Some scenes work better than others. One involving the families
figuring out the "seating schematic" is quite clever and funny. One
involving a bathroom is a rather shameless and unfunny ripoff of a
scene from "Father of the Bride." 

Carlos Mencia, I have to say, I don't think is funny or a particularly
good actor. I kept finding myself imagining someone else in the part
(*cough* George Lopez... or anyone else, really). But he wasn't enough
to ruin the movie for me.

The best parts of the movie were the story with Forest Whitaker and
Regina King, and anything with Charlie Murphy, who has a small but
hilarious role. The one scene featuring him and Taye Diggs was the one
time I laughed HARD. And yes, as another reviewer pointed out, the
actress playing the sister was excellent.

Most of the plot points are predictable, yes, but I didn't really hold
that against "Our Family Wedding." I at least had a better time than
I've had at most real weddings. I give it a 6 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was OK but the plot's been used many times before. Guy and
girl come home to parents and announce they are getting married. Then
both families have to get along as they plan the wedding. And of course
either the dads or the moms don't get along. In this case, it's the dad
that don't get along. It starts from the beginning as Lucia's dad,
Miguel, whom tows trucks, picks up Marcus's dads, Brad, car to impound.
Brad arrives in time but Miguel still tows the car. Then they have
dinner with their kids that night and meet for the second time and find
out they are to be in laws. So much quarreling ensues.

The best scene is when Migual and Brad go to this bar to find a dj and
Miguel gets hammered on pink nipples. Of course, the kids have second
thoughts but everything works out in the end.

FINAL VERDICT: Not very interesting. Skip it.
<|_=00=_|>
i think there are too many of these movies these days. haven't we seen
something like this a couple of years back with Ashton Kutcher?? with
this movie its like im having a deja vu, and also very very
predictable, nothing new or cool about it. the lead actors are pretty
good but the plot is cheap and meaningless. we have seen the whole
different culture uniting kinda thing, seriously we get the point no
need to repeat it a hundred times.

while i was watching this, i was already imagining the ending and with
no surprise it turned out exactly the way imagined it, thats how
predictable it is. don't waste your time, you have seen this before!
<|_=00=_|>
"Our Family Wedding" has some good actors and two great actors, Forest
Whitaker and America Ferrera, but a horrible script. A young
interracial couple travel back home to tell their families they're
getting married and to plan a quick wedding. Their fathers, their
cultures and their families clash. This is just rehashed material and
no better than a poor man's "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner".

They were going for laughs, and although I did laugh-out-loud in a few
scenes, most of the lines were just rude, and all of the characters,
especially Whitaker's, were just being insubordinate. Every character
had friction with one another and sometimes we weren't even privy to
the reasons, so not only were we not laughing, we're frustrated as
well.

The few laughs were not enough to overcome the frustration and many
pointless scenes. Even if they were going for drama instead, there is
no sense of drama just from watching characters act in horrible ways
because the script tells them to. I can't really recommend "Our Family
Wedding", only possibly to die-hard fans of the genre and fans of
America Ferrera. This is a Ferrera we haven't seen before, mature and
subdued, and she at least was nice to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I completely disagree with gregeichelberger's review. I thought this
was a great film and I don't see why gregeichelberger was so concerned
with WHITE people. This film is not about WHITE people. Now that does
not mean that this film cannot be enjoyed by White people, but this
film concerns race relations between two cultures that have had issues
over the years. I get the impression that gregeichelberger does not
understand this fact nor appreciate how prevalent these issues are
today. Either way, please do not take his review as the gospel truth.

The basic plot of the story is pretty standard; a young couple fall in
love and their parents do not like each other at all. However, with
this film there is the added element of race relations between Latin
and African American cultures. These relations are portrayed through
numerous hilarious actions and comments that are not race sensitive,
but definitely reflective of historic issues between the cultures and
very funny. If you know Spanish you will definitely get more of a laugh
out of this film.

Throughout the beginning of the movie young couple sort of roll with
the punches as their families clamor to claim what aspects of what
culture will be represented in the weeding. As the film progresses the
couple goes through adversity based on their families craziness, but
they find a way through it with some touching scenes.

More importantly the two families begin to work to gather to plan the
weeding and make sure both cultures feel respected and included in the
weeding. This is another point that I feel like gregeichelberger may
have missed. The weeding is a mixture of the two families' joint
effort. There is a mixture of music with a Marachi band playing through
part of the weeding and a DJ spinning R&B through part of the weeding
(which is a funny scene where Miguel and Brad go to a club and look for
a DJ). The young couple jumps a broom and both families pick the groom
up and through him up and down. There is even a scene where Lucia's
gangster cousin teaches Marcus how to do a little dance.

I think the basic point of the movie escaped gregeichelberger
completely and this may be an important point for anyone interested in
watching this film. I don't think this film was meant to be PC, this
film was meant to display issues that exist between two communities.
The creators of this film went out of there way to identify certain
stereotypes and issues that these two communities have with each other
and found comedic ways to display this issues.

However, the great part of the film is that the families find a way to
have a great weeding after all this craziness. This would be the
resolution that gregeichelberger seemed to miss. The weeding day starts
off as a disaster but they piece it together. The two families actually
have a laugh together when they realize how crazy things have become
over the weeding. At this point they actually bonded and place their
difference aside for the young couple. They come to a realization that
Marcus and Lucia love each other and that is something that family has
to respect no matter how crazy they are.

I guess to sum it up, this film will appeal to you if you are not
African-American, Latino or aware of the issues between these two
communities because it has humor and heart. However, I do think it is
important to understand that this film address issues between these two
communities and makes a point to illustrate the issues in a blunt and
realistic way, while being humorous at the same time. This is important
because the jokes in the film are not simply random jokes. They are
jokes based on the issues between these two communities and I believe
people should be aware of this. If you go see this film with you loved
ones I think you will laugh, maybe even cry, but I think you will enjoy
this film because it was well done.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all,this was hardly the "worst film of the year" as one
reviewer on this site wrote. THAT film was called "All About Steve."
This one was in some ways a standard rom-com and yes,there were
similarities to other films from "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner" to
"Meet the Fockers." But I find that all rom-coms have elements in
common,so what's the big deal? The big deal is that this film involves
a mixed race couple where neither one is white,in fact the girl is
Mexican-American and the boy is African-American,both college educated
and from families that are not poor. In fact the prospective groom's
father has quite a bit of money,and the bride to be comes from a family
that ,if not rich,is at least solidly middle class. I see why the
critics,both professional and non,didn't "get it." None of the main
characters is involved in gangs,drugs, or lives in the ghetto or the
barrio. There are no men dressed in drag pretending to be grandmothers
either . And there are no main characters that are white. No "best
friend" no work buddy,no obnoxious boss. The plot involves people of
color having to bridge a cultural divide. Are there clich√©d moments?
Sure. Were the fathers sometimes over the top in their dealings with
one another? You betcha! Have we seen this in other films that didn't
get nearly the lashing this one did? Certainly. I enjoyed this film
because ,in spite of the normal conventions of its genre,it showed
people of color as normal families dealing with a situation they may
not like,but having to find a way to come together for the ones they
love.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to watch a romantic comedy, but this failed both the
categories. First, I couldn't detected any much romance a part from the
guys getting married. There was no sweetness, no passion, nothing at
all where you can actually see the couple behaving like a couple. And
second, ZERO fun. Even the potentially hilarious scenes like the goat
one can't make you do more than "ah." I found myself wondering when the
fun part was about to start, until I realised I was already half way in
the movie. At that point my flatmate gave up and started watching TV at
the same time. There was one of the worst acting moment near the
beginning, when husband and wife are in the car, and he's sitting on
the back seat; they seem to be acting in different time and different
modes... it's just so badly stitched together that I cannot watch that
again. Oh yes, no background music of any sort, just bad acting all the
way through.
<|_=00=_|>
But that's besides the point. I loved, loved, loved this movie! I am
appalled IMDb, that this film has only received a 3.7/10 rating!
Honestly, I was just making a review today about how the film industry
needs a fresh take on things, something different, and this movie is
it. It's been taken too harshly. Most movies are guilty of a few
clich√©s here and there, but I felt this movie was so warm-hearted and
genuine, and had a lovely message come across. You gotta admit, it took
real cojones to make a movie about relationships we see everyday, but
hardly talk about, out loud: Interacial couples. It had to be done...
it's the 21st century, and I can barely list on my 10 fingers how many
good films have been made about this topic. Guess Who (2005) comes to
mind... but really, that's just sad that there aren't more interracial
couples incorporated into movies, especially the big-budget ones.
Pieces of April (2003) is another one, one that isn't listed as a
comedy, but is in its own sense. Movies like these are dying to be
made. There are so many cultures in the world, I would love to learn
more about them. I actually learned from this movie too. I know
traditions were always important when it came to weddings, but I didn't
know it went as far as sacrificing a goat (don't worry, they don't
actually do it). But I was cheering on Lucia (America Ferrera, love
that girl) and Marcus (Lance Gross) the whole time.

Just do it, watch this movie! It contains something soooo many movies
are seriously lacking these days: CHEMISTRY! They actually seem like a
real family. Don't worry, Carlos Mencia's acting isn't as bad as
everybody says it is, Forest & Regina are just... bliss, I wish they
really were a couple, and everyone else was just phenomenal. I did
notice the lady who plays America's grandmother (Lupe Ontiveros) also
played her mother in Real Women Have Curves (2002)... which only adds
to the amazing chemistry! Ciao for now.
<|_=00=_|>
Marcus Boyd (Lance Gross) and Lucia Ramirez (America Ferrera) are going
home to announce their engagement to marry. Marcus' father Brad (Forest
Whitaker) is a divorced radio personality. He keeps dating young girls.
Her father Miguel (Carlos Mencia) doesn't even know that she has a
boyfriend. The couple is moving to Laos where he's joining Doctors
without Borders. They announce their wedding in front of both families
during dinner but Miguel just tow Brad's car. To make things more
awkward, Brad brings a date Ashley who actually played soft ball with
Lucia. The fathers do not get along. Lucia's racist grandmother doesn't
help. It's a clash of cultures as the fathers compete.

The biggest problem is Forest Whitaker. He is way too serious to be any
good in a comedy. The man is obvious into his rom-coms having directed
mostly that. He just doesn't fit that world. Carlos Mencia is a lot
better fit. The racial humor could work but it needs to be much
sharper. The jokes are mostly from the bottom of the barrel. They're
not the best. If they're going there, they should take some risks. Some
of the characters are funny. America is likable. The grandma hits some
funny moments but the story has limited substance.
