
This movie is utterly awful unless you are ready for a bad comedy.
There are tons of flows. Albania doesn't border Turkey. Istanbul is a
magnificent city. In the movie it is portrayed as a third world country
slam hole. Police in Istanbul have new cars. The girl doesn't have a
driver license in the US where everyone drives an automatic. Yet in the
movie she hops in a stick stick shift cab and shows some amazing
skills...So lame... Shots are fired in a hotel, grenades are detonated
in a middle of a cosmopolitan city ...and there's no Police... The main
character is taken on a ride for a few minutes and yet he appears to be
almost next to the hotel. Albanians converse in English?!
<|_=00=_|>
I was unfortunately taken to see the movie, hoping the directors (art
director, etc) would have done a better job since Midnight Express. The
scenario is full of awkward, hard to be believe events like Kim bombing
the whole covered bazaar area which is like one of the most crowded
parts of the city. While she is doing that, the dad is kept by the
kidnappers who were stupid enough to leave him alone for hours and let
him speak on the phone. He escapes from the place just like that, and
then is followed by Turkish police cars from 1970s. Kim who was not
able to drive automatic car in US, right away makes all these car moves
driving a stick Taxi in the most narrowed streets. I also have to
mention that all the women appeared in the movie were dressed in black
veils- I don't know why, someone should explain that, also Turkey does
not have a border with Albenia. The list goes on, but I don't think its
worth to spend money or time.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a big fan of the first taken movie, it not only had professional
cinematography but great action, suspense and originality. Now this
sequel i am ashamed to say was a money grab by the producers. Now Luc
Besson and Robert wrote the original script without being pressured by
their superiors to be limited to a marketable plot, unfortunately thats
what has happened to Taken 2. 

The plot follows Liam Neeson after the events of the original and well
its the pretty much an identical situation. 

The climax however is the main issue , it's rushed. It just happens and
I was left wondering why it just ended so fast. 

I cannot say this movie was terrible because it wasn't, it was just a
movie that could not even close live up to its predecessor due to lack
of depth and originality. 

Don't waste your money at the cinemas Wait till its on DVD
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was very stupid and naive. Producers did not bother to make
anything meaningful assuming that people will go watch it anyway. What
a disappointment. Nothing has remained from the realistic first part.
This one is more like a naive boring drama with infrequent heroic acts
of Liam Neeson. In fact, most of the time he looks like a pompous clown
trying to be serious while playing a stupid script. As in a regular
cheap movie, bad guys are not really bad and are very respectful to the
main characters, always giving them plenty of time to talk and to run
away. What irritates even more is ridiculously large amount of product
placement. Save your time and money, don't watch this movie in
theaters.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is just a poor attempt to combine all sorts of action movie
clich√©s brought together with a hope that it will attract action movie
fans to the film. I am afraid that was a false hope as I think this
film was an utter failure. Its performance cannot even be compared with
the first Taken film- which I loved. Liam Neeson is marvellous as
always but the scenario is awful. There are many ridiculous points
throughout the film: 

1) How does the girl manage to use three grenades in Istanbul without
getting caught by Turkish forces?

2) Are we expected to believe all Turkish police cars are from 1970's
and 80's?

3) It is not even a whole day spent in the city and I think we heard
more than five hundred calls for prayer... 

4) Liam Neeson fights and shoots almost 10-15 guys and I cannot
remember him receiving one fist on the chin. Are all bad guys idiots
that they let Liam Neeson on his own for hours to let him make phone
calls and arrange his escape. 

5) Again the bad guys who are shown to be burning with the desire for
revenge are not actually that bad as they treat the guy and his family
pretty well. 

6) The bad guys fire almost thousands of bullets and miss every single
shot whereas our ex agent seems to be hitting the target every single
time. 

7) We see an exceptional (impossible!) driving performance of the girl
in narrow and unfamiliar streets of Istanbul where she stepped her foot
for the first time in less than 24 hours. Maybe we are expected to
believe she inherited (!) those natural skills from her bionic father
the day she was born. 

8) We are expected to believe that one can consider barging into an
embassy courtyard driving through the security and be allowed to walk
free by just one call to a guy in the golf field. Seriously??? 

9) Some of the fighting scenes are too fast, it is impossible to
understand what's going on. You just have to sit patiently for two
minutes to see who collapses and who is still on his foot to understand
who was a better fighter. 

10) I thought counting in the car for the turns and noises for boat,
music instrument and something else that I do not remember now was so
cheesy. The boat and the music guy being in the same place forever and
ever is just a laugh. ..... 

I think I can continue with the list and add 25-50 more ridiculous
items. In short I am trying to tell is that this film is not worth
going to the cinema and wasting time and money on that. If you had
liked the first film and expecting this one to be similar, you will be
very disappointed. The story is so poor that I think it is an insult to
the audience's intelligence.
<|_=00=_|>
What an utter disappointment. Like many fans of the original Taken, I
was looking forward to a sequel to see if it could match or in any way
surpass the original. I am afraid that as as sequel I am left perplexed
at the lack of any tension, real action and pace in the film. The
villains were not as nasty as they should be- after all they were
seeking revenge for the slaughter of friends and family and all
appeared not all intimidating. There was no sharp dialogue and some
scenes bordered on the risible especially when Liam Neeson was trying
to give directions to his daughter on his whereabouts. The finale was
rushed and overall the film lacked any bite or interest. Dull,
unimaginative-only Liam Neeson kept what glimmer of hopes alive by his
solid acting. However, a real shame the film could not even match or
equal the original. Do not waste your time- see the original Taken and
leave this sequel alone.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was very good and Liam Neeson is one my favourite actors. it
is great that Liam Neeson visited Turkey. I am sure that he impressed
very much while he was there. However I just hated director's point of
view about Istanbul, and Turkey. In some scenes you see some women
wearing pitch black clothes as if they live in a country governed by
Islamic rules . No!!! Turkey is not like that!!! Its constitution is
more democratic than many 'democratic' countries in the world. And
especially women had their rights before many 'democratic' countries in
the world. For example Turkish women can vote or can be elected since
1934! Just check the history. You will see Turkish women had such
rights before millions of others women living in other countries. But,
I do not understand why there is not any Turkish women seen in the
movie. All the movie was taken in very weird and suburban areas, and
you do not see any women, but the guys. This is not Iran, this is
Istanbul! I am very sorry about the director's attitude and I did not
like it at all. 

Turkey is a secular, democratic and modern country. You can see the
people with very modern looking all over the city, not ninjas! The
people of Turkey do not wear such a pitch black clothes like the people
living in an Islamic country. Not only the appearance, but also the
thoughts are modern and contemporary in Turkey! Why did director say a
big lie to the world? Is there a political reason? Should a director
act like a horrible politician? 

I am fed up with seeing such horrible movies hiding the truth! Make
movie of what you see, not hide the truth! 

Movie certainly deserves 7 out of 10, but the director does not deserve
even 0! 

I hope my review was useful to correct some mistakes/lies about
Istanbul...
<|_=00=_|>
So, its a stinker!

If you came to see Liam Neeson kicking ass, my advice is turn back now
and save your money. This is entirely due to the inability to actually
see what the heck's going on in all of the films actions sequences and
stunt co ordinations. The film looks like it was filmed on the site of
a permanent earthquake with a camera dangling by a rope. If you have
epilepsy this might be one to avoid considering how quick its been
edited. Its almost like director Olivier Megaton said "yeah we're going
for the subliminal message type look, edit it like that" And you want
anything remotely reminiscent of the first films action? well forget
about it because it hasn't been included. 

What you will be treated to however is a cheap, watered down child
friendly, completely unrealistic, trashy, knock off 'Rom Com with
bullets' B reel, sold purely on the title of "Taken" alone.

Huge plot holes dominate the script from start to finish, in its purest
form its basically an awful rehash of the first film but 1000 times
worse, placing Maggie Grace (Bryan Mills daughter) as the heroine
trying to rescue her parents from a load of bungling Albanians (yes
they are literally that bad, think of Manuel from Faulty Towers and you
have your starting point) . Liam Neeson does his best with what he's
got, but there's only so much you can do with a turd script like this.
Unfortunately its so laughable that Neesons character starts to look
like a paranoid delusional psychopath that sees kidnappers everywhere.
They must have forgotten to include the scene where Neeson gains his
super power to spot evil doers just by looking at them, but hey that's
what happens so get over it!

Not only that but did anybody even look at a map before this script was
written? Had anybody even been to Turkey or Albania? Clearly its the
best location in the world to magically learn how to drive a car,
because that's what Maggie Grace does! However there's also a dire lack
a qualified torturers because no one can do it, or interrogate or
generally manage to do anything right! Alternatively, if you feel like
throwing some hand grenades off rooftops without anybody batting an
eyelid then this might just be the place for you. Don't worry about the
police, they'll be to busy driving around in there 1970s bangers they
hauled right off the scrap heap, where this movie also came from.

Unfortunately the worst news is that Taken 3 already seems to be on the
horizon. Many of you will be asking 'how...why....who....???' but
unfortunately money speaks louder than taste. I imagine the plot will
be an all black screen and Liam Neesons voice over "Your money has been
taken". The horror that it was a 12a should have sent alarm bells
ringing before I even bought the ticket, alas my money and respect for
the film industry is now gone forever. What's even more painful is the
fact that Luc Besson is partly responsible for this mess, Luc Besson!
director and producer of some truly awesome films. 

Please don't see this film, please don't be 'Taken' in
<|_=00=_|>
Terrible and a major disappointment to anyone that loved Taken like I
did! Weak plot, terrible action and preposterous storyline make it
laughable. I know the first one was far fetched but much more
believable. Takes away from the first one!!! The fact that Kim couldn't
get her license and then magically can drive a stick shift is
ludicrous. The fight scenes were filmed too close up to see and the
Albanians were made to look like total idiots by missing every shot and
Liam landing everyone of them. The story was slow to start and seemed
filled with fluff. The movie ends without a real build up leaving you
wondering..... What just happened?!
<|_=00=_|>
In 2008, I enjoyed the film Taken mainly because of Liam Neeson's solid
performance, which added deepness to the screenplay because of his
conviction and intensity (I will refrain from mentioning that the TV
series 24 was quite popular in that time, and Neeson basically played
Jack Bauer, but on the big screen). Now, 4 years later, we have Taken
2, which unfortunately is a pathetic action film with an incredibly
weak screenplay, insipid direction and some of the most boring action
scenes I have seen in the last years.

Neeson made his best effort in rescuing Taken 2, bringing the
seriousness and conviction from an authentic professional actor who
trusts in the screenplay...or at least pretends to. For the rest, the
film is a collection of forced domestic melodrama (Kim couldn't obtain
her driving license; Bryan distrusts of Kim's new boyfriend; Lennie has
problems with her new husband; etc.) and confusing action scenes
completely lacking of any energy and impact. I was almost falling
asleep during the car chase through the narrow streets of Istambul; and
the fights are edited into micro-shots of less than a second, and as a
consequence, it was very difficult to notice what was happening.

But the worst thing of all is that Taken 2 retroactively harms Taken,
because the villains are so inept that they make us doubt about the
hero's ability. He was maybe just lucky of finding a gang of idiots who
leave him alone during long periods of time in order to give him the
opportunity to escape; kindly allow him to make phone calls while they
are having him held at gunpoint; and start to endlessly make a
monologue when they should be having the revenge they enjoy mentioning
so much. As for the violence, Taken 2 is strictly PG-13 material; the
main character employs magic bullets which always hit the spot, but
without shedding a single drop of blood; on the opposite, the villains
employ bullets which inoffensively dissolve through the air, or at
most, only work on walls. 

In conclusion, Taken 2 is an unbearable film, whose 90 minutes feel
like 180 because of the poor screenplay and director Olivier Megaton's
laziness. I liked his previous film (Colombiana), but he fell so low in
Taken 2 that it will be difficult to have any enthusiasm in his future
films. In other words, save your time and your money, and don't watch
Taken 2. I just hope that this piece of junk isn't economically
successful, and we won't have a third part, in which Neeson will have
to look for the cup of coffee he accidentally left on his car's roof.
After Taken 2, I think any foolishness would be viable for producer Luc
Besson.
