
Rob Zombie should have named his latest film "Kill-****ing-Everything,"
as it would have given audiences a better idea as to what to expect
when paying for a ticket. It also would've been a signal not to expect
any shred of respectability that Zombie was able to retain in his first
film. Unlike the first film, which was at least intriguing if not good,
Zombie relies on every horror-cliché imaginable in order to
unnecessarily pad the run time and the body count under the misguided
belief that greatness is measured in terms of sheer brutality.

Zombie must have decided that audiences needed an even greater reason
to hate the main character after he turned her into a typically
annoying teenage tramp in the first installment. As a result, Laurie
has become a crust-punk vegetarian, no doubt altered by the events that
transpired a year earlier. She has continuously suffered from
nightmares and delusions since that fateful Halloween, and the audience
is reminded of this every five minutes by dream sequences that litter
the first half of the film. Meanwhile, Michael Myers has indeed
survived the first film and is on a three day trek back to Haddonfield,
killing any form of life that he encounters along the way. His arrival
is precipitated by numerous red herrings in the form of dream
sequences, and this back-and-forth pattern is continued throughout the
film until he actually arrives and continues his habit of killing
everything in sight.

In order to add another layer to a rather straight-forward plot, an
examination of post-traumatic stress is included, as Laurie is shown
coping with her life after it had been shattered the year before. This
remains the greatest aspect of the film, as Laurie's battle, even with
the saturation of unnecessary dream sequences, is a gateway for
audience sympathy. Apparently not satisfied with this connection,
Zombie also attempts an examination of Michael Myers's psyche, despite
the perfect serial-killer development of the first film. This new
examination centers on the dream interpretation of a white horse, which
Michael constantly envisions alongside his deceased mother. In his
visions, he is depicted as a child, and his mother instructs him to
unite their family once again (meaning that he has to find Laurie).

In essence, Michael is instructed by his dead mother to kill, a blatant
connection with the original Friday the 13th series that would have
been impossible to have gone unnoticed by Zombie. These visions of
Michael's are also the main contributors as to why the film is a
convoluted mess. The constant appearances of the white horse motif are
meant as an explanation for Michael's behavior, but they instead become
a hindrance to the flow of the film. In addition, his insistence to
kill everything he encounters is unexplained by his mother's desire to
reunite the family, save for a brief instance in which his mother
invites him to "have some fun." Of course, murdering everything in
sight is the nature of the Michael Myers character, but as Zombie has
focused on mental disease rather than the supernatural in his Halloween
series, the new serial killer persona remains an insufficient
justification.

By avoiding any supernatural aspect, Zombie also fails to sufficiently
explain certain events in the film. It is never mentioned how Myers was
able to survive a gunshot to the face without hospitalization, nor is
it explained why it takes a year for Michael to return to Haddonfield.
It is vaguely mentioned that the police misplaced the body in transport
from the crime scene to the morgue (which is depicted in a scene that
is dismissed as a dream of Laurie's), but this appears to have occurred
in the outskirts of town. The delusions that Michael suffers are also
shared by Laurie in the film's climax, which, barring any supernatural
connection, simply doesn't make any sense.

Finally, in what may be the most unforgivable aspect of all, Zombie
completes his transformation of Dr. Loomis from the beloved, heroic,
and selfless figure of the first series to an arrogant, self-centered
egotist. Loomis serves no function in Halloween II other than to inform
Laurie that she is Michael's sister. Other than this development, he is
meant as a spiteful center of rage that the audience is led to hate
more than Myers, and as a result, his inclusion in the film is almost
useless.

In between scenes of Laurie's breakdown, Michael's visions, and
Loomis's asinine ego-trips, Zombie manages to saturate the remaining
run time with close-ups of excessively gory wounds, unattractive bodily
features, and every squishy sound imaginable. Zombie has never been
subtle with his depiction of the macabre and grotesque, but in this
film, it is so excessive that it becomes apparent that he isn't
interested in any serious, albeit fictional, examination of mental
illness. Rather, he seems more focused on making the audience ill. For
seedy exploitation films of yesteryear, this is a perfect combination.
In mainstream cinema, however, it has become a tired cliché that ran
its course in the eighties.
<|_=00=_|>
I was an extra in this movie, and even on the set I knew it was going
to be a disaster....what I was unprepared for was the level of disaster
that they took it to.

I have no problem with language or violence, but I do have a problem
with it when there is no good reason. The script sounds like it was
written by a middle schooler (honestly, who uses THAT many F bombs in
regular conversation?). And the violence, while somewhat expected, went
WAY over the top as far as simply telling the story. On the plus side,
whoever did the makeup effects for this movie has one heck of a demo
reel to show off now.

I'll agree that casting Maclolm McDowell as Dr. Loomis was a good
move...it would have been even better if they had made him even
remotely likable. Same goes for virtually any of the characters in H2.

Oh, memo to those who griped about Michael grunting....he grunted in
Carpenter's original as well...just check out the scene where he
strangles Lynda, or when he's breaking into the closet, or choking
Laurie.

And of course they had to go the whole "oh-my-God-she's-his-SISTER!"
route, which was stupid in the first HALLOWEEN 2 and is even more so
this time around. John Carpenter came up with the idea in 1981 and even
he admits it was a dumb one. Michael Myers is far more terrifying as
simply the "boogeyman".....anybody could be his victim, nobody is safe.
With this lame subplot, as long as you aren't related to him or between
him and a relative, you're safe! Maybe it's nostalgia for the "good old
days", but I think I'll avoid any of Mr. Zombie's future HALLOWEEN
efforts and simply stick with Carpenter's classic....the unequaled
original.....
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I am a fan of Rob Zombie's "The Devil's Rejects" and "House
Of A 1000 Corpses." Also, I liked Rob Zombie's first Halloween. It
wasn't great, but it was decent. I was looking forward to having a lot
of fun watching this sequel; only to be set up for extreme
disappointment. The movie lacked suspense. Also, for some reason, Rob
must have thought that to be extremely loud is to be scary. Wrong!
Also, Laurie Strode a/k/a Angel Myers was so whiny and unstable, I
couldn't wait for her to be killed, which, sad to say, never happened.
Every character was just a cookie cut-out waiting to be killed. There
were many of the actors in which you didn't even get a good look at
their faces before they were killed. The movie was disjointed and
extremely loud and gory. I love gory, but this was a bit over the top.
Michael Myers was popping up everywhere. It was too much like a Wile E.
Coyote cartoon. Oh, I guess Sheri Moon Zombie wanted a bigger role.
Wow! What a big mistake! She cannot act. And she was annoying. Also,
Sam Loomis's character was only there to be killed off. Believe me, by
the end of the movie, you'll be cheering for his death. I also didn't
like the fact that the movie veered so much into her nightmares that
most times you didn't know if it was real or just a nightmare; or was
Michael Myers like Freddy Krueger and he could be anywhere. All of the
characters were white trash and severely stupid. I never thought a
movie could be so violent and gory yet be so dreadful and boring at the
same time. As I was watching the movie, I kept thinking about the
original Halloween 2. It was a much better movie. Also, Rob Zombie
should know better! Introduce the characters and let us get to know
them before you go and kill them. In this movie, Michael Myers went on
a happy and silly killing spree, popping up everywhere at the same
time, with such silly and extremely loud stabbing sounds! Rob, do you
know what overkill is? Do you actually know how to write a decent
screenplay without excessive "F" words? And can you write a movie
without having to put your wife in it? It's not enough to have style,
Rob, you also need to have some substance in there. Halloween 2 (2009)
was just a stylish piece of crap.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has badly damaged the Zombie brand of horror movie. I liked
Rob Zombie's earlier slasher\horror flicks. Movies like "Devils
Rejects" and "House of 1000 Corpses" combined genuine real life psycho
characters with tongue-in-cheek humor that made the movie viewer feel
in on the joke. These movies didn't take themselves very seriously, and
while gory, were also at least a little bit fun to watch.

Zombie obviously tried to bring some of that camp levity to "Halloween
II", notably by including "Weird Al" Yankovic in a cameo role, which
helped a little. I think the movie could have used a lot more of "Weird
Al" and a bit less of Mrs. Zombie (Zombie's wife played a leading role
in this turkey, some type of angel of death as Jason's Mommy...don't
ask, too stupid for words).

Unfortunately, this move really stunk. It was just bloody
disembowelment after decapitation after evisceration. It was a stupid
and bloody mess and a complete waste of time.

Stay away from this stinker.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know where to begin after coming in from seeing Rob Zombie's
Halloween II. The comments/reviews that I've read so far sum it all up
perfectly. It's bad beyond belief. It's not scary or suspenseful. There
are just back to back ugly, mean-spirited, and brutal killings. The
main characters aren't likable at all especially Scout Taylor Compton
as Laurie Strode. We cared for and wanted to see Jamie Lee Curtis
survive every time she played Laurie. Compton is so bad, she should
have been the first to get wiped out. There is no real story either,
just ideas and visuals ripped from Freddy, Jason, and Leatherface plus
other stuff that must have come from cocaine and or meth usage. Think
of the worst Nightmare, Friday, Texas Chainsaw, or SAW volume you've
viewed. I guarantee that this is worse. Zombie should start paying
people like Sam Raimi, Wes Craven, Sean Cunningham and others to ghost
direct his films. Uwe Boll could do a better job.
<|_=00=_|>
I want a refund! This ranks as my worst movie-going experience of all
time.

The first Zombie "Halloween" is eons above this disaster. My primary
complaints (besides the ridiculous, convoluted plot): annoyingly loud
sound effects that take the violence to comedic levels (all you need
are SPLAT, CRUNCH and ZAP title cards a la "Batman" to make it
complete), always way too dark photography (no one thought to plug in a
few lights?), a Michael Myers that looks like Vincent from TV's "Beauty
and the Beast" (what's with the flowing robes?), and a love for
characters that give the phrase "poor white trash" a whole new meaning
(do these people EVER clean anything?). I also resent the introduction
of characters just to butcher them off 45 seconds later.

The actors try their best, but have nothing to work with. A script
overburdened with profanity (The F Word over and over and over) really
doesn't allow for much "acting." I love Malcolm McDowell...but NOT in
this movie. What a waste of a good actor.

I admit horror movies are not my greatest love...but HALLOWEEN II is
just plain painful to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a huge Halloween fan, so I am not foreign to the series. I
understand that Rob Zombie tried to create a whole different movie and
not follow the original movies but really? ghosts? seriously...

So right when the movie started I loved how it continued right on from
the end of Rob Zombies first Holloween where laurie is walking down the
street covered in blood with the 357 still in her hands, but what i
loved about Rob Zombies first holloween is that there is a lot of
criteria covered showing Myers life at the beginning, but this goes
straight into killing with no motive.

Even though it is a new movie not a remake I do believe that Dr. Loomis
shouldn't have sold out, Loomis has always been the badass trying to
hunt Myers down, now he is a sell out who dies in the end... there is
no where to go with a sequel on this because it wont be Holloween
without Loomis.

But the number one thing that ruined this movie is the ghosts...
seriously what the hell, Ghosts? this is a slasher film not a ghost
film, keep casper out of this, throughout the whole movie his mom's
ghost, and him as a kid ghost(by the way the kid taking Daeg Faerch was
terrible, he was a terrible Micheal he no longer had the creepy kid
ambiance) just keeps popping in and saying these terrible lines like
"were ready Micheal", seriously rob zombie what were you thinking...

So if you are as big of a Halloween fan as me don't see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In my review of Quentin Tarantino's "Inglourious Basterds," I wrote
that those put off by "Death Proof" would also likely be put off by his
latest. Go figure that one week later, I am applying the same notion to
Rob Zombie's sequel to his 2007 remake of "Halloween." One of the most
heatedly derided remakes to date, I found Zombie's take impassioned and
sincere while transcending John Carpenter's minimal, workmanlike
low-budget-horror-flick terrain. While not a perfect film, "Halloween"
epitomized (to me, anyway) the creative potential of the remake when
placed in the right hands.

"Halloween II" finds Zombie returning to the Michael Myers maelstrom
while tightening already-established character arcs, employing a
harshly gritty style (courtesy of DP Brandon Trost), and topping it all
off with a heapin' helpin' of carnage. Whereas "Halloween" focused on
the inception and evolution of Michael Myers (Tyler Mane) from a
murderous youth to the hulking masked madman we all know and love,
Zombie's thematic focus this time out is "family" (and its many
incarnations), using the traumatized character of Laurie Strode (Scout
Taylor-Compton) as its axis.

Picking up one year after the fateful night her brother decided to come
home, Laurie has become a punked-out version of her former virginal
suburbanite self, and now resides with Sheriff Lee (Brad Dourif,
sporting a Ted Nugent hairdo) and Annie Brackett (Danielle Harris).
Meanwhile, the Eve of All Hallows is looming over Haddonfield like a
shadowy blanket, with a rejuvenated, hooded-angel-of-death Michael
Myers making a pilgrimage back home, guided by the specters of his
younger self (Chase Wright Vanek) and his mother, Deborah (Sheri Moon
Zombie). In the meantime, Dr. Sam Loomis (Malcolm McDowell) has become
a pop-psychology celebrity, authoring yet another book on his last
run-in with the notorious Myers.

With "Halloween II," Zombie drops the slick, polished look of the
initial film, replacing instead with dark, grainy stock punctuated by
flashes of neon and the soft focus of black & white. In many ways, the
director has created a film that, like his characters, is schizophrenic
in its style, cleverly threading complex dream sequences into reality,
and cutting away from scenes with little warning. While the employment
of dream sequences in most films is a cheap tactic for a "GOTCHA!"
moment, Zombie keeps his motives ambiguous: do the dreams represent a
psychic link between Laurie and Michael? the erosion of Laurie's
sanity? Michael's distorted concept of pilgrimage? Either (and every)
way, they give the proceedings a richly layered psychological weight
that, in addition to their shock value, make us feel that the
characters each have something at stake. The events leading up to the
brilliantly-staged climax are both unpredictable and surprisingly
affecting.

Unlike the "Saw" sequels (which have become the bane of the
discriminating horror fan's existence), bathed in a hypocritical
morality amid all the twisted flesh, spilled blood, and dungeon
locations, Zombie is cognizant of death as something horrifying and
destructive--the murders in "Halloween II" are played straight,
executed with a fury that is disquieting; Myers has become a driven
beast whose path of destruction possesses a joyless, workmanlike
quality, removing any potential glamorization from the act. Every
flesh-tearing slash, every helpless scream, cuts to the bone.

Quite admirably, Zombie uses his second go-'round with Myers as a
chance to tie up character arcs and plot threads that felt truncated in
the over-ambitious "Halloween": Loomis, who seems detached from most of
the main plot, is given a chance to redeem his greedy, bottom-feeder
ways; Sheriff Brackett gets to exhibit a paternal side, but also an
authoritarian mentality once the code of law is broken (he has several
great, emotionally wrenching scenes near the end of the film); as
Deborah, Sheri Moon Zombie's detached, trancelike performance is apt
for the physical manifestation of the voice guiding a psychotic mind.
Amid the carnage of his corpse-strewn landscape, Zombie's interest in
character interaction and moral ambiguity gives "Halloween II" a depth
that, for those with the stomach to take it, is downright refreshing.
<|_=00=_|>
A couple years ago we had the release of the re-make Halloween,
directed by Rob Zombie, he claimed that it wasn't a re-make as more of
his own vision. I was very much looking forward to it and was greatly
let down. So when I heard that Rob was working on the sequel, I just
laughed and knew I wasn't going to see this movie. But then I saw the
trailer for the film and darnit, curse Rob Zombie for feeding my hunger
towards scare and gore. The trailer looked so great, I just had to see
the sequel, I don't know maybe it had hidden messages saying "see this
movie" or something. But I saw Halloween 2 today and once again, I fell
for it! Now I think Rob Zombie is a very talented director, his
visionary style is incredible, coming from a graphic design background,
I admit this movie still has some great and creepy images. He has this
knack for these gritty horror films and I believe that down the line
his film The Devil's Rejects will be a cult classic. The reason why;
despite the fact that The Devil's Rejects is somewhat of an homage to
the old gritty dark horror films of the 1970's, it was exactly meant
for Zombie as it was his vision that made it into the classic that it
will be. Halloween is not meant for Zombie and the reason why is in one
word: Simplicity.

Simplicity being the reason why this isn't Zombie's picture to mess
around with, Michael Myers is evil, no specific reason why, he just is.
As we saw in the first movie, Zombie tried giving Myers a soul and it
took away the scare more than give it to the audience. He's made
Michael Myers into a bum, or at least he looks like one, take for
example: The Mask. Myers does not wear the mask for most of the film or
at least it's ripped off and we can see a good amount of Myer's face
and it's not Michael Myers without the iconic mask. His look for me is
just all off as well, I don't see his height as much of something to be
bothered by, while his kills are extremely creative and fun to watch on
screen, he still didn't do much for me as he looked like a hippie bum
with that long black cloak. Zombie also has all his trademarks in this
movie, as his love for the 1970's, strippers/boobies, gore, sex, drugs
and dirty ugly bums who look like they still haven't figured out that
the tooth brush has been invented. But here's Zombie's version of what
he thinks the sequel should be.

Taking right where we left off from the first film, Laurie has a
vicious nightmare that Michael is still after her, but she wakes up.
It's one year after all the murders and Laurie is now living with the
Bracketts. Michael's body has been missing since last Halloween,
presumed dead, and Laurie has been having recurring nightmares about
the event. While Laurie deals with her trauma through therapy, Loomis
has chosen to turn the event into an opportunity to write another book.
Meanwhile, Michael has been seeing visions of his mother's ghost and a
younger version of himself, who instructs him that with Halloween
approaching it is time to bring Laurie home.

Scout Taylor-Compton, this girl, I have no idea why she was picked as
the strong female Laurie Strode, because she spent 98.9% of this movie
crying, sobbing and blubbering "he'sgonnagetmeeeee!
I'mnotwhoyathinkiam!", and how in the heck was I supposed to root for
that kind of a female lead? Scout is a lousy actress and the writing
was all wrong for the character as well. Another trademark that I
forgot to mention earlier that Rob loves putting in his movies, his
wife Sherri Moon, pretty woman and over all a talented enough actress.
But how in the heck was her role needed in this movie? Zombie is
ripping off Psycho by making Myers see his dead mother all over the
place saying for him to kill everyone. Again, I like the simplicity of
Myers just being born evil with no explanation. Rob Zombie delivers in
images and gore, but not in the scares. While the movie has some
awesome kills, it's not worthy to add to the collection of Halloween
sequels which the first 7 are actually good and worth watching. This
was a project that wasn't meant for him nor should have it been for
anyone, Halloween should be left alone. With Zombie making this into
his vision, he's turned Mike Myers into a bum who dumb people for some
odd reason pick a fight with and then get killed in the end and I'm
supposed to feel sorry for them? Not likely, just skip it.

1/10
<|_=00=_|>
It was quite the dilemma deciding whether Halloween II was a good film
or a bad one. One thing is certain: it's a "weird" film, undoubtedly
the most bizarre major studio release of the year. Rob Zombie's sequel
or "vision"  as it's being touted  seems to have been envisioned with
the aid of various hallucinogenics and mind-altering substances,
withering away whatever was left of the original John Carpenter
Halloween mythology after Rob Zombie's remake and leaving a
nonsensical, uber-violent mess in its wake. This isn't a
so-bad-it's-good movie, nor would I call it a just-plain-bad one; this
is a so-weird-it's-good movie, a blood-drenched collage of absurdities
and irrationality, which like a train wreck (a term some would use to
refer to previous Zombie efforts), is hard to look away from. Little of
the iconic original Halloween is left here  all that's left is Michael
Meyer's mask, which itself is less recognizable beneath the grime and
torn pieces  but perhaps it would be foolish to try to match the
original masterpiece anyway. Zombie has crafted something entirely
different; something quite frankly silly, dumb and, for lack of a more
politically correct term, "retarded", but nonetheless entertaining, not
in spite of, but because of this.

Picking up where the remake left off, Halloween II sees Laurie Strode
recovering from her ordeal with psychopath Michael Meyers.
Mentally-traumatized after both the Halloween day massacre of nearly
everyone she knew and her own dispatching of Meyers  by way of shot to
the head -, Laurie finds herself dreading the one-year anniversary of
the serial killings, plagued with the irrational fear that the deceased
Meyers will return to small-town Haddonfield to finish her off. Well,
low-and-behold, Meyers is alive, and he makes it his mission to track
down Laurie and finish what he started.

The general plot outline is as generic as can be, but it's hard to
fathom or comprehend the insanity that occurs. Michael Meyers, the
original mask-wearing soulless psychopath, the "pure evil" murderer,
the "Big Cheese" of all horror movie villains, has now been transformed
into a homeless vagrant who randomly eats dogs. Yep, that's right, he's
a hobo that eats dogs now. When a film is remade, one expects some
alterations, but this is akin to remaking Indiana Jones and turning him
an extraterrestrial who molests children. There is practically no
semblance of the original character...and the new ones just messed. As
well, Meyer's is followed by his deceased mother, himself in child-form
and a gigantic white horse, seemingly all figments of his imagination.
Except they interact with Laurie as well...making them ghosts? Except
Meyers isn't deceased, so it makes absolutely no sense for there to be
a ghost version of him. Maybe Laurie is inexplicably psychic and seeing
into Meyer's mind? Or maybe Zombie just ate a few too many shrooms.
Either way, this mom-boy-horse trio follows Meyer's around as he kills
various victims, instructing him on what to do next. It's as stupid as
it sounds.

Dr. Loomis has also been changed significantly. The remake hinted at
Loomis profiteering slightly off the Meyers incident, but here it has
been taken to ridiculous proportions. He's now a prima donna celebrity
who travels around in a jet black limo with his publicist, throws hissy
fits at reporters and threatens to beat on woman. One sequence has Dr.
Loomis appearing on a talk show alongside Weird Al Yankovic, with the
famed disc-joker lampooning the doctor and Michael Meyers (making puns
about whether this is the same guy who starred in Austin Powers) until
Loomis finally explodes with anger on air at the hosts assertion that
Meyers is a shark. If it sounds like this has nothing to do with the
film, it's because it doesn't. This irrelevance not only pertains to
the Weird Al scene, but all of Dr. Loomis's scenes. His entire role is
a completely separate, unrelated tangent in which he gallivants around
the country promoting his book. For that matter, even Laurie and
Michael have about ten minutes in the way of plot. Laurie, up until the
last fifteen minutes, never encounters Michael. The near entirety of
Halloween II is Michael fighting random people  farmers, strippers,
tough-guy scumbags  while Laurie lives her life as per usual.

The rest of the film is a compilation of pumpkin people, vans running
into cows, "golden showers", discussions about fornicating with
corpses, and sex with a guy in a wolf costume who sounded suspiciously
like Michael Cera. It's weird, undoubtedly convoluted, but in the end
it's pretty entertaining. It's punctuated with displays of head
smashings, throat slittings, and other displays of excessively graphic
violence. Nudity is slightly down from the first one, but there are
still several scenes involving bared breasts. In the end, between all
the nonsense, gore and nudity, Halloween II is a big-budgeted,
toned-down Hollywood stab at a Troma movie. In other words, a pretty
fun movie.

I'm one of the few who actually enjoyed Rob Zombie's remake of
Halloween  a lot. For reasons I won't get into here I enjoyed it
immensely, but at the same time I could completely understand why so
many disliked it. It took some of the things that made the original
Halloween so great in many people's eyes and switched them around
completely. Those who despised the first Halloween for that reason will
likely loathe this second installment with a passion. However, if one
can go into Halloween II not expecting a Halloween movie  or even a
reasonably scary horror  they might just have a good time. It's not
"bad" per say  although it's hard to say what Zombie intended it to be
 but it's enjoyable in its bizarreness. Worth checking out if you
don't mind Carpenter's story being completely bastardized.

- Dylan, allhorrorfilms.com
