
Tony Stark might be at his best with his gadgets, but ironically his
movies are best when he is without them. 'Iron Man 3' is a perfect
demonstration of that  for the first 40 mins, Stark is the same
arrogant, cocksure person he was in the self-important 'Iron Man 2';
and then after crashing and burning in his damaged suit in the middle
of a wintry expanse, Stark is forced to start over, and that rebirth
brings back what made the first 'Iron Man' so infectiously entertaining
in the first place.

Indeed, you've been warned  don't expect 'Iron Man 3' to be firing
from all cylinders right from the get-go as 'The Avengers' did; rather,
the road to that payoff is slow and bumpy. This is a 'post-Avengers'
Stark, traumatised by his near-death experience closing the Chitauri
wormhole back in New York. At the expense of sleep and his relationship
with the ever-lovely Pepper Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow), Stark throws
himself into work  which to him means further refining his 'Iron Man'
armour. In the meantime, he leaves the heavy lifting to Colonel Rhodes
(Don Cheadle), commissioned by the President to fight terror in the War
Machine suit (basically the 'Iron Man' fighting machine but in the
patriotic colours of red, white and blue).

Col Rhodes' latest target is a terrorist going by the monicker of 'The
Mandarin', who has brought his war to home soil after targeting US
installations abroad. Only when his former driver cum good friend,
Happy Hogan (Jon Favreau), is fatally injured does Stark sit up and pay
attention, and in an ill-advised and egotistical move, reveal his home
address in an outright challenge to The Mandarin. That, as you would
already know from the trailer, leaves his oceanside home decimated and
Stark in a barely functioning suit in the snow-covered wilds of
Tennessee.

Up to this point, a lot of what is meant to pass as wisecracks is
exchanged as dialogue among Stark, Potts and Hogan, but the smart-
talking isn't particularly amusing or engaging and gets increasingly
tiresome after a while. But as we said at the start, it is precisely
when Stark is forced to start over that the movie starts getting into
the groove. Abandoning the slick and sleek mechanical tricks and
gimmicks, the middle act settles into a surprisingly old-school act in
a small-town-USA where Stark had meant to visit to investigate a recent
incident which he suspects is linked to The Mandarin.

There, some of the sparkiest repartee unfolds between Stark and a young
kid he meets, Harley (Ty Simpson), who will not only enable him to
overcome his PTSD but also become an unlikely pre-pubescent sidekick.
The rapport between Stark and Harley significantly enlivens the film,
with the 'connection' (there is a special meaning to the quotation
here) between them perhaps the most poignant relationship developed
here. Thankfully, the delightfully warm and witty midsection only makes
the film better from here onwards.

Surpassing expectations of a straightforward good-versus-bad showdown,
veteran action movie screenwriter Shane Black and his first-time
feature film writer Drew Pearce engineer a couple of elegant twists,
including an ingenious revelation on the true identity of The Mandarin.
Not to worry, we're not in spoiler mode here, but suffice to say that
it is probably the very reason why Academy Award-winning actor Ben
Kingsley was enticed to the role. And with that surprise comes the
action that you've been waiting for from this summer blockbuster.

Black, who is making his sophomore feature film, offers up two eye-
popping set pieces. The first sees a daring attack on Air Force One in
mid-air, leaving 13 people in free-fall and a truly exhilarating
sequence where Iron Man gets to play 'barrel of monkeys' with all of
them and guide them to safety. The second is the elaborate and game-
changing climax  not only for the fact that it is the first and only
time in the whole movie that we see the Iron Legion in action, but also
because it comes to a startling conclusion that re-establishes the
dynamic between Stark and Potts. Both are even more astounding
considering Black's last and first movie was a crime caper called 'Kiss
Kiss Bang Bang' that never would have primed you into thinking he was
capable of such spectacle.

But one supposes that Robert Downey Jr must have seen that potential in
Black to recommend him as the candidate to take over Favreau, the
familiarity between actor and director paying off in how the former
trusts the latter to take the character in a different direction. While
he was vulnerable before, Stark did not have the same attachment as he
does here with Potts or the same sense of introspection that is evident
in his voice-over. In turn, Downey Jr. gives his best performance as
Tony Stark/ Iron Man yet, with a newfound sense of frailty that
develops convincingly into humility to match his heroics.

Disagree if you must, but we always loved Stark more when he was less
full of himself, and a refreshingly new aspect here is the buddy
element that sees Stark pairing first with Harley and then with Col
Rhodes. In particular, the finale sees a rousing partnership with the
latter  both Downey Jr and Cheadle clearly enjoying trading quips and
barbs at each other while saving the day. And given how the 'Iron Man'
movies have been at their most rousing when Stark rebuilds himself, the
last shot of Stark beginning a new phase in his life bodes well for the
future of the franchise, especially if it is to continue its life
outside of 'The Avengers'.
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I saw this movie I really didn't like it, I had just
come off the high of "The Avengers" and let me make it clear, this one
isn't as good. That said it is significantly better than Iron Man 2 and
that's because the story is deeper and direct. There's a lot less focus
on explosions and fancy effects (although there is plenty of that) and
more on dialogue and character development.

One thing I like about this movie is that you get to learn more about
Tony Stark, as much as I loved his arrogance in IM1, 2 at the end of
Avengers he was humbled and that continues in this one. On the one hand
I love the suits and the fancy technology but it's Robert Downey's
sarcasm and wit that make him so great for this franchise.

Yes there is a big plot twist but it by no means ruins the movie and
while I was not a fan of the ending, you can see where things are going
towards Avengers 2.

It may not be for you, my only advice is to make sure you watch it
again. I was angry the first time I did and thought the movie was a
joke, each additional time I've watched it I take something more from
it and enjoy it a little more.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw IRON MAN 3 last night and it was superb. It was the sequel IRON MAN
2 should have been but wasn't and the perfect extrapolation of life
after AVENGERS ASSEMBLE. The set pieces are suitably awesome and the
acting performances are uniformly excellent from the leads right down
to the tiniest bit part (there's a jewel of a cameo from a guard that
upstages even Downey's comic timing). The script gets the balance
between the epic and the personal just right and Sir Ben delivers two
performance for the price of one and both are genius (can't say more -
spoilers!). Mr Downey Jr also manages to show even more of the
complexity of Tony Stark. Just when you think there's no more to be
fracked out of that particular mine, he goes deeper. The writer set out
to deliver a fun story and that's exactly what it is. It draws you in
from the first moments and doesn't let go. What more could you possibly
want?
<|_=00=_|>
With comic book movies, there is a repeating cycle. The first one has
our attention. The sequel, most of the time (in the case of Spider-man
2, The Dark Knight, X2, etc.), outdoes the original. But then we are
eventually faced with the third part. In some cases (The Dark Knight
Rises), the third part kicks ass. In most cases (Spider-man 3, X-Men:
The Last Stand), they are the weakest. Luckily, this is simply not the
case for Iron Man 3.

The film takes place after the events of The Avengers, and Tony Stark
(the always wonderfully charismatic Robert Downey Jr.) is falling
apart. He's losing sleep, he's having anxiety attacks, and he is slowly
becoming distant from his faithful girlfriend Pepper (wonderfully
played by Gwenyth Paltrow again). But it only gets worse when a
terrorist named The Mandarin (Ben Kingsley, putting on a chilling
accent) starts wreaking havoc across the globe.

Guy Pearce shows up as a scientist named Aldrich Killian (what a
villain name), and if you know anything about Guy Pearce, you can
assume Aldrich isn't very nice. Rebecca Hall, who is very underrated
might I add, shows up as Maya, a scientist girl that Tony met in the
90s. And Don Cheadle reprises his Iron Man 2 role as Jim Rhoades,
Tony's best friend. There are a lot of plot details that I will leave
out because I want you to see Iron Man 3 with an empty mind, otherwise
it can't be enjoyed.

I was feeling a lot of things throughout Iron Man 3. I was really into
it in the first half hour. Then, these weird fire people showed up, and
I thought, "Oh God, are we watching Thor?" (I actually love Thor, but I
found the blend of fantasy at first off). But as the film went on it
all made sense and I accepted it. Then, I was also feeling de ja vu,
because I felt like Killian and Mandarin were fairly similar to Justin
Hammer and Ivan from the previous. But that is one of the wonderful
things about Iron Man 3: It's unpredictable.

Iron Man 3 is damn good. The heart and soul of this trilogy is Downey
Jr., and here is is at his best doing what he does best. Iron Man is my
favorite of The Avengers, and really, could you blame me? Downey's
amazing. What helps this time is the fact that this one is directed and
co-written by Shane Black (Lethal Weapon, The Long Kiss Goodnight, Kiss
Kiss Bang Bang). Black has a gift with blending action with humor, and
this is easily the funniest of the trilogy. It is also the best acted.

I had a total blast here. Is it as good as something like The Dark
Knight trilogy? Well, if you know my stance on that trilogy, then that
answer is obvious. Is it as good as the first two? Yes, and maybe even
better. The film has a great energy, a great sense of humor, some
terrific surprises and some terrific action sequences that will leave
the inner nerd within jumping for joy.

I find it difficult to give comic book movies a 10/10, mainly because I
have such a high standard when it comes to them. Yes, perfect comic
book movies exist. Is Iron Man 3 perfect? Not quite, because it doesn't
exactly have the themes that the perfect comic book movies acquire. In
other words, I wasn't moved by it. But that's okay, because the Iron
Man trilogy isn't meant to be taken as seriously as some others, and so
they shouldn't. But no comic book movie in a long time has danced this
close to perfection in a long time. This could be the end of Iron Man.
I hope it isn't, but at least he goes out in style.

A-
<|_=00=_|>
i see all the fans of the iron-man comics are all heated up and gave
this movie very lukewarm reviews and meanwhile most critics liked it. i
think i know why...you see...once upon a time i was a huge fan of comic
books and iron-man was one of my favorites. as i recall the main gripe
i have and every comic fan out there is that they really did injustice
to the main villain, if you've read the comic then you'll understand.

even though i use to be a comic book fan, i am also a movie fan too! i
see this movie in the same light that the critics do and i would
actually give this movie an 8. you see, if you just ignore the huge
change they made to the main villain compared to the comic, then the
movie stands up very well on its own.

come on people, how can you not like a movie with a cast including :
will sadler, miguel ferrer, rebecca hall, guy pearce, robert downey
jr,don cheadle and more and everybody looked like they were having fun
doing this movie. besides that you also have a very strong message
about private corporation sponsored custom made terrorists. that is a
very real and scary threat, all you need is one big nut-job in a high
position to do so.

the special effects are worth a mention, they were spectacular and for
people that said it was slow and not enough action, i say phooey, it
had as much as the previous two and the pacing i felt was better also.

the movie had a nice intelligent script and very competent actors and
if you are a fan of twists in movies, this one has a few.

so...all you iron-man comic book fans have to try to cool off and watch
this movie and see and relate to it as a movie and then give your
opinion. for me personally, this is the 4th time i've watched the movie
and unlike the other comic book movies this one seems to get better
with every viewing.

if you were to leave the comic book fans out of the voting( there is a
lot of them it seems ) and just leave it to the critics and fans of
movies then this movie would at least be an 8 on IMDb.
<|_=00=_|>
To date this is the best Iron man movie without any doubt in my mind. I
rarely give movies a rating of 8 and above and I nearly gave this movie
a 9. The problem with this movie isn't so much the story or the
characters as they all perform beautifully. Tony Stark is as always
very well portrayed, Pepper and Warmachine all spot on. The acting is
superb and not to be questioned. The visual effects are spot on, the
editing however... and here begin the problems. 

I believe that in Iron Man 3 one of two things happened: they either
had too much or too little footage. I am willing to bet that they had
allot more footage than screen time allowed. Now this is great for
later BRD releases with more movie time but it becomes somewhat odd in
the cinema. The ending felt very rushed for what would've been a full
climactic peek of the series that would sum up Tony's mental and
physical struggle with his body and his philosophic battle to overcome
an illness by building a shell around to protect him. We have all felt
vulnerable once or twice in our life but he depicts a man of a serious
illness who if given the chance could be perfectly able to climb to the
top of a mountain and back. Due to his health restrictions he pretends
to be the super hero rather than actually being one...makes sense? Tony
wants to be seen and remembered as a remarkable genius but he has to
overplay what he doesn't have in health with that which he has in
intellect and character; and so Iron Man is born. Sadly Iron Man 3 does
everything right for the most part and when the time finally comes to
reach that high peek when things really matter (at the very end of the
movie) the scenes rush through and leave you gasping for air. biting
the pillow in agony. 

What makes me really angry is the amount of time they spent in the
initial build up of the Mandarin (who is a legit comic book villain)
only to make him out to be a run of the mill "b class" actor. They
would've cut to the point and shortened the early scenes in favor for
more time at the end to really see Tony Stark with a healed heart.
Maybe we could have a scene where him and peeper watch a sunrise and
tears fall out of his eyes, the burden of illness never there anymore,
or where he runs on a field not worried that he will pass out or have
some type of cardiac arrest... just a little bit more of how his life
improves with his new heart, how he escapes the very thing that most
people can't escape with chronic illnesses. 

I also didn't like the scene in the plane where Iron Man drops down and
save everyone in mid air; dare I say that it didn't feel realistic or
believable? There was an absence of real sacrifice as everyone no one
really dies and the "bad guys" are more of a nuisance than legit
trouble. 

Aside from the mentioned above however, I really did enjoy everything
else in the film. There was nothing that was negative about it, I
highly recommend this movie and if you're a fan of the trilogy you will
certainly love this more than the rest.

For me 8/10 an excellent movie, great visual and auditory experience.
Excellent acting, the story works out very well, the flow is superb and
although a few issues regarding visual time (for certain scenes) and
"belive-ability", in others the overall message of Iron Mans struggle
is well understand.
<|_=00=_|>
The third instalment of the highly-successful Iron Man franchise goes
off in a different direction to its predecessors. I'll assume that
'part 3' (not including the Avengers) won't be people's first helping
of Iron Man lore and they'll probably have a shrewd idea of what to
expect from the previous episodes.

However, the film-makers have decided to go in a slightly different
direction with this one. I can see their point. It may have felt a bit
'samey' to have yet another villain wearing a suit of armour to battle
our sarcastic hero Tony Stark, so they decided to downplay the suits of
armour for the better part of the movie. Instead they focused more on
'the man' himself, utilising his deductive powers, rather than just
blasting baddies with his lasers.

And, to be blunt, while some people loved it, others hated it. So if
you're looking for yet another superhero movies with larger than life
baddies and plenty of high-tech, suit-wearing, destructive action, you
may feel a little cheated. There is plenty of action (and a suitably
explosive climax), but a lot of it involves more hand to hand fighting
from Stark.

Personally, I thought it was quite a refreshing turn for a superhero
film. Tony Stark always has been and always will be, Iron Man. If I
just want to see him in the suit itself, I have parts 1 and 2 to watch.
Nice to see something different. Roll on part 4 (and the Avengers 2).

http://thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/
<|_=00=_|>
Human beings have always tried to see beyond the future. We extend our
imagination beyond our limits. And when any movie offers a visual treat
showing some of the best science fiction stuff, we just love to enjoy
watching it. Isn't it? Iron Man 3 offers just the same. After Avengers
thrilled our eyes, Iron Man 3 gives us a fabulous treat by taking the
Iron man technology to the next level. Frankly, Iron man 2 didn't offer
much of the variety in terms of entertainment. It felt like just
continuation of Iron Man 1. But Iron Man 3 takes the suit to the next
level and gives a completely different entertainment factor. Movie
starts with glimpses of Stark's past that would establish its
connection with the main story. Main story starts with the terror
threats and series of bomb explosions executed by a terrorist named
'Mandarin'. Story also introduces in parallel a scientist working on
human DNA upgrading. Tony is developing new versions of his Iron Man
suit. Soon circumstances project Stark as a rival of Mandarin. Movie
offers many unexpected turn of events and some eye-catching visual
effects as it progresses. Some of the scenes like demolition of Stark's
home, Stark rescuing people from plane crash and fight of Iron men army
are unforgettable. RDJ is awesome as usual. It feels like he is not
acting but he is Iron man himself. Among others, Sir Ben Kingsley gives
a fantastic appearance. Though the role is short, it offers lots of
shades in his characters. In all I would say, this is a must watch
movie for fabulous special effects, awesomely eccentric RDJ, good story
and a nice climax. Don't miss this one.
<|_=00=_|>
It took me ages to watch this because of all the conflicting reviews. I
thought it was going to be as bad/boring as Terminator Salvation or The
Dark Knight Rises.

This film was fantastic! Easily the best of the Iron Mans (although the
first will always be 'the best', this one is repeat-watch-worthy).

Now that I know how awesome this film is, I think the negative reviews
make more sense: they seem to focus on things like 'but the bad guy
isn't the same as the comic' or 'that's not believable' etc. so let's
ignore those because that's just irrelevant. The film can still be good
without sticking 100% to the comics! I can't believe some people
complain about the realism when we're dealing with magic and flying
iron man suits but okay, let's mark the film down because the hero
didn't break his back quite enough in that scene?! I've given this a
ten because the story progresses brilliantly, there are so many extra
scenes included that you would normally expect to be edited out to keep
the running time down but the fact that they're left in means the film
has a well-rounded feel to it. Contrary to some opinions, I like that
the woman has the chance to save the day instead of 'just' being
eye-candy (Gwyneth wears the most amazing white office power-suit ever;
congrats to the designer), it is a bit patronising to just have one
scene of saving the day but it's better than nothing. One of the bad
guys (Guy Pearce) is building a great profile for himself as being
someone to watch out for as he might just steal the show! This film had
it all, yes there's a cute kid, but this is Iron Man so it never gets
cheesy and actually there are some hilarious scenes between Robert
Downey Jr and the kid. There's loads of humour and the action is great.

Everyone gets just the right amount of screen time in my opinion and
I'm actually going to watch this again which is rare for me.

10/10 as it's an excellent film - not perfect but excellent.
<|_=00=_|>
Or OTT as some like to say/write. And it definitely is. This is
supposed to be a fun summer movie. That is a concept you have to get
your head around. Another one is, that Shane Black is back. And I'm
thankful for that. I was so excited after "Kiss Kiss Bang Bang", but
unfortunately it wasn't a commercial success. And though he has proved
that he has talent (in writing and also in directing, see his
biography), it seemed like Hollywood was done with him.

Fortunately Robert Downey Jr. comes along and with the power he now
has, can say: I want him as director. Not sure if it happened exactly
like that, but whatever the circumstances, I'm glad he is able to do
projects now with the Iron Man 3 success backing him up. As for Downey
Jr. he seems to be bargaining for a new deal as Mr. Tony Stark. And he
probably will get what he wants. Good for him.

But what about the movie itself? The action is amazing (budget wise you
couldn't expect anything less), but there is also a lot of wit in it.
The script oozes with clever remarks and great quotes! Trademark Black!
There is also clever hints and word plays (concerning the last events
of the Avengers that is) and Tony Stark does have another evolution to
go through. Great casting and especially great idea with Sir Ben
Kingsley. Another "Black-ish" element that is added to the mix. Though
I have to admit, I'm not familiar with the characters of the comic
itself, I know this movie did what it was supposed to do ... and then
some! Let it entertain you!
