
There can be little doubt that Cloud Atlas will become a classic that
will be watched over and over again by its devoted followers, just like
its predecessors by Stanley Kubrick and Ridley Scott. Despite the many
questions I had in my mind when I left the theater and the moments
during the film when I felt disappointed or confused, I knew this, and
I have not stopped thinking about the movie and longing to be back in
front of the screen.

It is easy to criticize this movie as some have done for being overly
ambitious, pandering to low taste, being too simple or too complex,
with too few actors or too many, or even for celebrating revenge
violence against professional critics who write negative reviews. They
may all be correct, but these critics will still put themselves in the
same category as those that warned audiences against 2001 or Blade
Runner. The truth is that Cloud Atlas is profound in its reach, its
visual and acoustic impact, its mesmerizing flow and its completely
ground-breaking storytelling, and movie goers will see it and feel it
in their guts. 

It is a movie that is a product of our age of internet-driven universal
knowledge and vision, and the freedom we have to travel the world and
jump between ages, genres, images and identities at our will. It
reminds us that we are human and that we can still hear our heart beat,
if we listen.
<|_=00=_|>
Kudos to all the filmmakers for adapting this famously "unfilmable"
novel in such an inventive way. There are SIX separate timelines that
switch after every scene, but instead of the plot, the narrative
continuity follows the theme of the film. Once you clue in to that
overall theme, it is no longer confusing when the story jumps from a
runaway slave in the 1800s to a post apocalyptic future battle between
some of the last humans remaining on earth.

All this audacious style and structure makes Cloud Atlas a curiosity to
say the least, but the film is lifted to the realm of "Masterpiece" by
the all-star ensemble cast. This impressive collection of actors fires
off amazing performances like the Expendables 2 fires off high caliber
bullets. I mean this will long be considered one of the greatest acting
clinics ever filmed, and a high point in some already outstanding
careers, as the end credits alone are astonishing to watch.

Overall this is a movie that transcends the simple elements of stars
and plots and special effects, and boldly assumes to take the cinema to
another level of storytelling, much like Avatar took film to a new
level of technology a few years ago. The ambition, the technical
brilliance and the passion that was put into this film makes it one of
the great epics of our time.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't find it to be a mess at all, and it was certainly the best
thing the Wachowskis have ever done. I'm not sure how the directing
duties were distributed, so I'll uniformly praise Tom Tykwer as well.

I haven't read the book, so I can't make any comparisons there, but I
don't often leave a film adaptation wanting to read the novel
afterwards, as I did after seeing this.

Visually stunning, epic in scope, a strong score; the sort of film that
you're constantly amazed was ever made and happy it was. Equal parts
comedy, romance, thriller, and dystopian speculative fiction, it really
is an astounding mix of disparate elements. 

The biggest overall failure was definitely some of the make-up effects
- trying to turn Doona Bae into a believable red-headed Caucasian woman
was simply distracting - but the overall art & sound design was
incredible.

If I could turn channels while watching TV and switch between stories
and narratives as seamlessly and as deftly as the editing in Cloud
Atlas, it would honestly be hard to go back to simply watching one show
at a time.

Truly a marvel of multitasking on so many levels. Great stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to get last-minute tickets for this film at the
Toronto International Film Festival. The theatre was packed and we were
thrilled to see it although we did not entirely know what to expect. I
had read a part of the book but never found time to finish it.

The very opening of the film is mesmerizing and sets pace for all that
is to follow. Six stories are intertwined to create one magical ride
through time and space, as all stories move forward as one. To those
who haven't read the book, I expect you might find the movie confusing
at first. It seems unclear at the beginning (and for most of the first
hour and a half at least) what all these characters have to do with one
another. The end ties it up quite well, but for a three hour film, you
might find you've spent a bit too long grasping at straws. Just let it
go and enjoy what's before you; It will all come together in the end.

An important aspect of the film is that actors play different
characters throughout the film, finding themselves in different stories
and eras. Often it works. The futuristic plot with Jim Sturgess is one
I particularly enjoy. But sometimes, it feels like they're incorporated
just a tad bit much. Tom Hanks' role in the editor's story seemed huge
and important and first but it seemed we were supposed to forget about
it. As I walked out of the theatre, I felt I had seen not only Cloud
Atlas as a whole but a series of other films as well. 

I think maybe for a film such as this one, actors who weren't as known
would have been better. It may have been easier to believe in all their
different characters and forget who they were. But as far as their
performances went, well they were great. Tom Hanks shines from the
opening sequence to the very end. Halle Berry was adequate for the
journalist and Hugh Grant... actually it seems he's playing himself in
this one too. But the true star as always is Hugo Weaving. He steals
the screen whenever he appears and is mesmerizing both as the devil or
a regular assassin. 

The costumes and make up went from absolutely stunning (it may take you
a few minutes to recognize actors sometimes) to somewhat distracting.
Changing the race and age of an actor has got to be challenging but
it's still hard to forget who they are. I expect the film will get an
Oscar for this however, as I don't think anyone will beat them in this
category before winter comes. The score was also incredibly powerful
and beautiful and helped set the tone for the movie greatly.

Cloud Atlas will take you anywhere and everywhere. It may surprise you
by its sudden burst of violence, sometimes exaggerated and almost
funny, sometimes cold and raw. You might cry at times, as the
characters make choices and sacrifices. One story is particularly funny
and had the theatre laughing quite often. 

All in all, Cloud Atlas is no ordinary film. It's a voyage that will
take you to places you didn't expect. Don't try to understand it, just
let yourself go and you'll find you understood what it was all about.
If you're looking for a linear plot, then this film isn't for you. But
if you want to experience something different, then by all means, buy a
ticket for Cloud Atlas when it comes out. I know I'll be seeing it
again.
<|_=00=_|>
"Cloud Atlas" is nearly three hours in length, but I wasn't bored for a
minute. The film alternates between six very different stories quite
seamlessly, creating an exhilarating experience. It's part sci-fi, part
historical drama, part love story, part comedy. Any number of things
could have gone wrong with the film. All the different genres it brings
together might have failed to coherently mesh. But they did, and it's
something to see.

The film takes us on shipboard in the 1800s, where a young man forms an
unlikely bond with a stowaway, a runaway slave. It tells the sensitive,
melancholy story of a promising young composer in the 1930s  separated
by prejudice and misfortune from his lover, a man named Sixsmith. It
also brings us to 1973, where an intrepid reporter finds herself caught
up in a web of murder and intrigue. In the present day, the film offers
up the comedic tale of a publisher on the run from a gang of thugs.
Plunging into the future, it shows a dystopian vision of Seoul, South
Korea that is comparable to "Blade Runner" and a primitive
post-apocalyptic Hawaii.

Linking these stories together are the simple thematic elements of
love, compassion, and a love for liberty. The correspondence between
the composer Robert Frobisher and Sixsmith depicts the plain beauty of
love as well as any film I have seen, as do tender moments between the
central characters of the portion of the film set in the futuristic New
Seoul. Even in the blatantly comic segment with Jim Broadbent as the
publisher, a deep passion for freedom and human dignity shines through.

All the actors do a great job in their multiple roles. You can care for
Tom Hanks one moment as a villager in a future Hawaii, and then revile
him in the next scene where he plays a truly despicable doctor. The
best performances are given, however, by Doona Bae and Jim Broadbent. I
think they surpass all the rest. Bae plays a "fabricant", a kind of
clone designed to serve humanity. Her gradual awakening to her own
self-worth, to the subjugation of herself and of her people, is
beautifully and movingly conveyed. She is heartbreaking in this role.
Broadbent is equally excellent as the publisher Cavendish. His
expressive face and popping eyes are ideal for comedy  and he's
hilarious. But he's more than that. Broadbent infuses the character
with a sense of sorrow and weariness at key moments. Cavendish has
depth, a history, regrets from his past. Broadbent brings all this out
brilliantly without losing his comic touch.

Everything in "Cloud Atlas" comes together to create a film I found
thought-provoking and highly entertaining. I don't hesitate to
recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
The last time I felt like this after seeing a movie was when I saw
"Inception" on opening night. I realized I was seeming something that
was different, creative, and classic.

Cloud Atlas is an amazing piece of film. Even the harshest of critics
cannot say that this film is not ambitious. But I think that 99% of the
people that see this film will appreciate it. I'm NOT one who tends to
like films that are overly "artistic" (I hated "Tree of Life", for
example). But while the overall message of the film is hard to put into
words, it is easy to understand. The film is very watchable, and the
nearly 3 hour length seems to fly by. The stories are sharply written,
and for those who are afraid of getting "lost" while viewing, no
worries ... you'll enjoy seeing clues that link the stories, but even
if you miss the clues you still will see a story that is well explained
and easier to consume than an experimental art film.

I am absolutely shocked that the reviews from the "experts" have not
been more favorable, and the lack of box office sales is a crime.
Please go see this movie - if you can see one film this year, this is
the one!
<|_=00=_|>
Cloud Atlas is unlike its contemporaries at the multiplex. It tells a
big story in an engaging, difficult fashion. It has big names and a big
budget. But it also is thematically dense it wants to tell you
something through plot, characters, dialogue and symbols. Cloud Atlas
is also thankfully a very enjoyable film, much longer and denser than
much of what is available today. "Ambition" defines this film. 

In just under 3 hours, six radically different stories are told, and
they appeal to a broad audience: a 19th century tale of unlikely
brotherhood, the letters of a gay composer to his partner in the
1930's, a San Francisco- set conspiracy in the 70's, A hilarious
account of an old publisher's woes. A Blade Runner-esque clone's
struggle for freedom, and the survival of a tribe after 'The Fall'.
Genre conventions are toppled, as these stories with different tones
are juggled in short intervals, leading from comedic highs to shocking
drama in minutes.

But as with the characters, these plots are connected thematically, and
clever wordplay and visual imagery links the stories, such as the end
of a monologue referencing "the gates of Hell" and cutting to a shot of
the gates of a building that, for Cavendish at least, is the gates of
Hell. Each of the stories has strengths, a few have faults, but
together the medley is incredible. 

I found that while the earliest two stories began slowly and plainly,
they developed very well and provided fantastic drama, especially the
1849 story. The Nuclear thriller was strong, Halle Berry is great and
there are some real twists, and I also loved the 'Dirty Harry' and
'China Syndrome' vibes, but comedy bled into it from the 2012 story
which diminished the climax. The 2012 story is hilarious, and its first
scene is a standout; Tom Hanks is incredible as Dermot Hoggins.
Although while the story is interesting, it doesn't fit quite so well
thematically- it's almost too light. Listening to the 'Cloud Atlas
Sextet' fits with all the stories, but can't resonate with Cavendish's.
The future Korea is visually stunning and communicates its themes well,
certainly the darkest plot, but the action can get over the top (Yes, I
know who directed this) and there are some horrible clichés. But that
scene of horrendous dialogue, the weakest in the film, can't derail a
great piece. Lastly is the bleak, Hawaii- set post-apocalyptic story.
It was my favourite, possibly because I'm a sucker for anything
involving apocalypse. But Hanks and Berry are fantastic again, the
barbarians are menacing and scary, and the story is cool. It also
concludes the film perfectly.

I've only talked about the plot! The actors really steal the show. In
the credits, each actor's name is placed with a clip of every one of
their characters everyone in the theatre stopped and stayed. People
play characters you had no idea they played. A few highlights:
Sturgess' lawyer and the slave Autua, Frobisher, Hugh Grant's sexist
nuclear boss, Cavendish and Hanks' Hoggins. Doona Bae as Somni and Hugo
Weaving's "Old Georgie" round it out- the latter is truly a demon. Much
credit has to go to the makeup, literally making actors disappear into
their roles. There is a huge number of transsexual and even
race-bridging roles- it's worthy of note that Lana Wachowski was at one
point Larry Wachowski. Also deserving of praise, and possibly Oscars is
the large scale visual effects that cover hundreds of years and look so
believable. Sound quality is top-notch as well, listening to Old
Georgie is chilling, as is the vision of Korean diners, and well... the
whole future.

But all this plot serves a purpose, and Cloud Atlas intends to tell you
things. Freedom is possibly the biggest theme, as well as the idea that
our actions affect others greatly throughout time: we're part of a
large human network. Really though there's so much to talk about you
should just see the film. There are small stumbles every so often, but
the structure hides them very well. No one story takes more time than
others, no one character takes more time than others, and the structure
and pacing drives the film forward briskly. It's a shame this film
hasn't been better received commercially, because it's a phenomenal
achievement, interesting sci-fi and drama, and as of now, the best film
I've seen in 2012. 8.8/10
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I were able to see an advanced showing of Cloud Atlas last
night at The Chicago International Film Festival. I will say that I was
thrilled to see this movie from the moment I saw the initial trailer
release. I am a huge fan of movies that are epic in nature and are
rather daring by taking on the task of time lines that may span a
millennia.

I will not provide any spoilers but I will say that the film is truly
grand in scope and as you may have deduced from the trailer, the film
time span passes through hundreds of years and includes many characters
and story lines that are interwoven or overlap.

I cannot say enough about the performances in the film. From top to
bottom, everyone displays amazing performances. Hugo Weaving obviously
is a show stopper in several scenes. The make-up and costume design
will throw even the seasoned film-goer off as the transitions made by
these characters are nothing short of spectacular. I cannot see another
film coming close to being in the same category for the Oscar in
Costume and Make-Up.

The visuals and the score of the movie were the biggest takeaways for
me. There were moments that reminded me of Blade Runner mixed with Out
of Africa. There are a large number of stories within the film, some
large and some small, but many strong enough to be individual films
themselves. That being said with the long running time of the film,
almost 3 hours, coupled with the multitude of story lines and the very
numerous edits, the film can be a daunting task for even a seasoned
viewer. I'd be lying if I said I wasn't fighting to pay close attention
to every detail to the first hour of the film to understand what was
happening. The first 10 minutes alone caused me some confusion.

This film will not be for everyone due to its complexity and length,
but for those who are true fans of films this epic in nature will truly
appreciate the film. I very much look forward to another viewing of the
film and encourage everyone to see the film at least once.

Cheers
<|_=00=_|>
"Impressive". That's the best description I could come up with after
being asked by my brother and sister-in-law about my thoughts on Cloud
Atlas immediately following the film's second-ever public screening
we'd just attended. Not a very incisive assessment, I'll grant you, but
my head was still spinning as I tried to make sense of what I'd just
witnessed over the film's jam-packed two hour and forty three minute
running time. This may be one the most ambitious and epic films I've
ever seen, demanding rapt attention from viewers as they're taken on an
odyssey that spans the globe over 500 years and hopscotches between
numerous interwoven story lines that incorporates just about every film
genre available, featuring actors playing several different roles each.
Cloud Atlas is based on British author David Mitchell's best-selling
2004 novel and was a huge challenge for the filmmakers to adapt and
finance (its estimated budget of over $100 million also makes it the
most expensive independent film ever made). The architects of this
beautifully twisted madness are directors/writers/producers Tom Tykwer
(Run Lola Run) and The Matrix's Wachowski siblings, Andy and Lana (Lana
was Larry until a gender transition that was completed about five years
ago). The Wachowskis, notoriously press shy, were surprisingly on hand
(along with Tykwer) to introduce the film's second screening the
morning after its star-studded TIFF world premiere on September 8th at
the Princess of Wales Theatre. 

A movie this expansive should have a massive cast, considering how many
characters appear - not so in this case, though. Principle actors Tom
Hanks, Halle Berry, Hugh Grant, Jim Broadbent, Hugo Weaving, Jim
Sturgess, and Xun Zhou each take on multiple roles that plays loose and
fast with the actors' ages, races, and genders (Susan Sarandon, Keith
David, James D'Arcy, and Doona Bae also have smaller roles). Having so
many dimensions to explore with all of their characters must have been
acting nirvana for this lot. For the most part, they pull off the
various requirements of the roles, many of which require a significant
amount of prosthetics and makeup. Several of the roles were so well
disguised that I was completely clueless that a certain actor had
played the role until the end credits visually made some of the big
reveals (learning that Berry played the white Victorian housewife and
Grant a war paint-layered native completely floored me). Sticking
around until the end is an absolute necessity for Cloud Atlas - the
oohs and ahhs from the sold-out audience as they discovered who
actually played some of the parts was a wonderfully unique filmgoing
experience for me. For all of the positive aspects that the race
bending and gender bending idea brings to the film, there is the faint
whiff of novelty attached to it. Things do get a little silly when you
have Weaving seemingly playing an Asian character whose makeup produces
more of a Vulcan look (which may have been intentional, as it's for a
sci-fi sequence that takes place somewhere in the 2300s), as well as in
full drag playing a Nurse Ratched-like character. The latter obviously
has parallels to Lana Wachowski's own life and although the nurse
character provides some decent laughs, I was a little hung up on how it
seemed one of the character's main functions was to generate laughs
purely based on the surreal sight of Weaving playing one truly ugly
looking woman. Perhaps I'm reading too much into it. 

Weaving does provide one of Cloud Atlas' most memorable roles, as the
seriously creepy Old Georgie, who terrorizes one of Hanks' many
characters. Hanks does some of the best work I've ever seen from him,
playing four different characters that range from an unscrupulous
doctor in the 1800s to going far against type with maybe the film's
standout character, a modern-day thuggish British writer named Dermot
Hoggins who gets the ultimate revenge on a critic for a bad review.
Berry is excellent with her predominant roles playing an ambitious
reporter in 1970s San Francisco and a political figurehead (from what I
could grasp) aligned with one of Hanks' characters in the far future,
in one of the film's few story lines that doesn't quite work. Also
great is Broadbent as both a composer and playing a man tricked into
living in a retirement home, who provides the film's best comic relief. 

The weighty Cloud Atlas principle themes of philosophy, reincarnation,
oppression, and destiny, along with the film's highly challenging pace
and complex non-linear storytelling construct will overwhelm many -
that's okay, however. I was lost a number of times - not Tinker Tailor
Soldier Spy-level lost, mind you, but definitely out of sync with what
was happening on screen. This is the type of daring film that demands
multiple viewings to completely grasp the filmmakers' grand scope and
there's nothing wrong with a little audaciousness from Hollywood once
in a while. Even with a big-name cast, it'll be very interesting to see
how the otherwise difficult-to-market Cloud Atlas will fare at the box
office come late October.
<|_=00=_|>
Now... forgive my hateful language but I am still recovering from the
ridiculous boredom and anger that I experienced last night. I should
start by saying that I spent the night trying to think of something
good about this movie. I failed.

This was the most pretentious, most cliché film I have seen in a long
long time. This idea with telling different stories serving a single
purpose which would "form the big picture" is so overused. And it might
have worked with some other films but in this case it's just "oh c'mon,
seriously?!". The cast is awful. Don't get me wrong I usually like Tom
Hanks and I loved Ben Whishaw in The Perfume, but the acting in Cloud
Atlas is literally scandalous. Now about the movie itself. It is
crystal clear what they tried to achieve. It should have been some sort
of a revelation which would explain life itself. In reality it is
simple, shallow and ridiculous. It doesn't raise questions or make you
think. It doesn't even try to show you the answers. It just tells you
stuff with a dramatic slow preacher-like voice and wannabe interesting
accents. Honestly this parody of a movie felt as if you caught a sub-
sub-sub-cable 22h lame melodramatic TV show crew, you gave them a giant
budget and a camera (and Halle Berry for publicity) and they took the
opportunity to spill every single stupid, random and clichéd thought
into a three hour nightmare.
