
Greetings again from the darkness. When at a dinner party someone
introduces themselves as "an engineer", we don't typically settle in
for a long evening of tales describing their daredevil and
death-defying hobbies. Filmmaker Marah Strauch teaches us being too
quick to judge could cost us the exhilarating story of Carl Boenish,
the father of BASE jumping.

Mr. Boenish was an engineer turned cinematographer turned skydiver and
cliff jumper. Despite his unbridled energy and enthusiasm, his
engineering background (Hughes Aircraft) provided the analytical
foundation that helped him plan "safe" jumps for years. And it was his
love of film and cinematography that produced a treasure trove of film
clips from some breathtaking jumps  beginning with his 1978 leap from
Yosemite's El Capitan.

The film is about Boenish's thirst for the next big jump, but it's also
about his jumping partner and wife Jean, and the bond between them.
GoPro cameras have spoiled us today. We are accustomed to film clips of
just about anything that involves speed, height or any person looking
for a thrill. Thirty plus years ago, such clips weren't possible 
except with Boenish and his clunky cameras strapped to helmets on these
jumps.

BASE jumping is an acronym for Building, Antenna, Span, Earth  the
types of jumps required to join the ranks of Boenish's group. We
witness the fights against national park Rangers, and the clandestine
operations that led to jumps from under construction skyscrapers in Los
Angeles and Houston. Boenish truly pushed the Nature's Law vs. Man's
Law conflict.

Director Strauch takes us through the Guiness record jump at Norway's
Troll Wall, and we even hear Jean stating that Carl would have been
right there with today's wing suit jumpers. The final shot of a modern
day "flyer" is quite the contrast to those early Boenish jumps. The
film answers "How and Why", and leaves little doubt that the genetic
make-up is quite different for this group of thrill-seekers than for
the rest of us  and being an engineer doesn't exclude one from either
group!
<|_=00=_|>
If you enjoy seeing a documentary movie with awe inspiring
cinematography that will educate, inspire and amaze you than you will
love Sunshine Superman. I learned so much about Carl Boenish's life as
an aerial cinematographer and the father of BASE jumping. 

Many of Boenish's surviving colleagues as well as his wife help to tell
the viewer the story of his life. He had childhood polio that he got
from a vaccination. Boenish could not walk for a year due to his polio.
He overcame his polio and started his career as an engineer. He
eventually became a full time jumper. He said it was very important for
him to be able to photograph each jump to share it with others to
inspire other people. 

BASE jumping, as coined by Boenish, stand for jumping off four types of
starting points including buildings, antennas, spans (i.e. Bridges) and
natural precipices such as cliffs. Carl Boenish said he has respect for
nature's laws but not necessarily man's laws and he had legal trouble
in El Capitan for jumping off the vacant Crocker building in downtown
Los Angeles. In a 1984 prime time U.S. sports special hosted by David
Frost, Boenish and his wife were able to break a Guinness record by
jumping from Trollveggen in Western Norway. 

Marah Strauch, the director of this movie spent over eight years making
it. The movie reflects her passion for Carl Boenish. The footage and
cinematography really make the viewer see the beauty and awe inspiring
view that the jumpers have while they jumped. 

My favorite part of the movie is when Carl Boenish and his wife break a
Guinness record by jumping from Trollveggen in Western Norway and
seeing it recorded in a prime time U.S. sports special hosted by David
Frost. It is wonderful to see the excitement of both Carl and his wife
when they successfully break the world record. I am impulsive and very
passionate about the interests I have so I can relate to Mr. Boenish's
passion for jumping and making sure he can always record it on camera.

This film teaches us to admire and appreciate the beauty and awe of
nature that the jumps provide for the BASE jumpers. Carl Boenish and
his fellow jumpers are basically fun-loving adventurers. In the movie,
Carl says he hopes his jumping will inspire other people that they can
conquer their fears seeing he and his fellow jumpers do these jumps
that most of us could never dream of doing.

I give this movie 5 out of 5 stars and recommend it for ages 10 to 18.
Reviewed by Adam C. KIDS FIRST! Film Critic. For more reviews by youth
go to kidsfirst dot org.
<|_=00=_|>
It is rare to see a documentary that feels like a full film Sunshine
Superman feels like you have been to movies. It has drama, a love story
and gorgeous aerial photography. I highly recommend seeing on the big
screen. I saw the film in Atlanta with a crowd that gave it a standing
ovation. It is a crowd pleaser yet also something deeper. The film
explores themes of mortality , faith, inspiration, and what it means to
be fully awake in the mad world. The soundtrack is fantastic the film
is worth seeing for the soundtrack alone. Some will compare the film
with Man on Wire. I think that is a bit too easy and not really true
the film is deeper and and the characters richer. The poetic
sensibilities are different and a bit more soft (in a good way) in
Sunshine Superman.
<|_=00=_|>
As documentaries go this film was in the process of being made from the
first day that Carl Boenish decided that it would be a cool idea to
jump off of a very high cliff, and if at all possible, film his own
descent by attaching a camera on to the top of his helmet. In todays
technical environment of March 2016, with wing span suits, and more
importantly Go Pro cameras that weigh less than two (2) pounds jumping
off of a mountain cliff, or a building skyscraper roof is still a huge
adrenalin rush, and yes, sky divers, or BASE jumpers as Carl Boenish
coined his daredevil activity are still dying for their adrenalin rush
today. The equipment used today in BASE jumping may be more technically
advanced and safer but there is still a lot of danger and significant
risk involved. BASE jumping, is an acronym for Buildings, Antennas,
Spans and Earth.

I think what makes this documentary most interesting is some of the
people who knew Carl and base jumped with him, as did his wife Jean
Boenish hundreds of times, didn't talk about Carl being crazy, or
egotistical, or even a film hog. No Carl Boenish was described by his
friends, family, and peers as one of the most interesting and
intriguing characters they have ever known. I can only imagine what
Carl Boenish would be attempting to do if he were alive today. I am
sure Carl would be a polar opposite of someone like Johnny Knoxville of
the TV/film fame Jackass.

I was most impressed with the pre-planning Carl and his wife Jean would
document before attempting any of their jumps. As their BASE jumping in
the 1980's was a first not only for the USA, but around the world their
reputation preceded them and their BASE jumps were breaking Guinness
Book of World records right up to the days prior to Carl's untimely
accident in 1984 in Norway.

This documentary reflects the true love (and more importantly trust)
that Carl and Jean had in each other as they completed BASE jump after
BASE jump with each other. Carl had a lust for life and continued to
challenge not only himself but the other BASE jumpers who chose to jump
with him. Knowing how the BASE jumping equipment has evolved over the
past 30 years, and GoPro cameras light weight and camera resolution
have redefined documentaries of today, one can only imagine what Carl
and Jean Boenish would be capable of capturing on film today. Sunshine
Superman is well worth watching and rates an 8 out of 10 score.
<|_=00=_|>
The Sunshine Superman of the title is Carl Boenish, who was a
recreational skydiver who developed a new offshoot extreme sport which
would go on to be called BASE jumping (Buildings  Antennas  Spans
(bridges)  Earth (cliffs)). This sport involved the participant diving
off vertigo inducing heights in order to free-fall for a number of
pulse-pounding seconds only to pull a parachute as late as is safely
possible. The sport became Boenish's life and he went on to plan a
series of jumps including the El Capitan cliff-face in Yosemite and
skyscrapers under construction in Los Angeles. Needless to say, he was
(quite reasonably) at odds with the authorities who were very nervous
about the safety of such a new and seemingly dangerous pastime. Of
great benefit to the film-makers here, Boenish made recordings of most
of the dives he was involved in; in fact he said that the recording of
it was completely integral to it. Aside from a few dramatic
re-enactments with actors, this is all original material. As such,
there is a lot of great footage to be enjoyed here, including some
stunning new aerial photography made specifically for the film, where
we sweep over cliffs and latterly follow a man in an extraordinary
flying suit. This is a very handsome looking documentary, which is also
sound-tracked to a selection of very well chosen contemporary music.

While this is primarily a celebration of its main character and the
sport he created. It also has an important love story too. Boenish met
his wife Jean at one of the early screenings of his films and they
would go on to become an important team who would ceaselessly promote
BASE jumping. This led to them travelling to Norway to take part in a
television event where they broke the world record after jumping off
the imposing Trollveggen cliffs. The following day Boenish died while
attempting a second jump off a cliff he had previously considered too
dangerous. His reasons for doing so remain largely a mystery.

BASE jumping is certainly a very cinematic sport, with the incredible
visuals it offers. These days it perhaps seems second nature to make
these dives with helmet cameras but back then it was a new idea and
Boenish had to attach bulky cameras to himself in order to achieve it.
And in the film's most uncomfortable event we watch him climb a
home-made ladder device which extends way out into space over the sheer
drop of a huge cliff. We watch him climb this with no safety harness
and then turn awkwardly around at the top to sit on a bike seat so that
he can film his friends jump off from the best angle. I'm getting
feelings of vertigo just thinking of this, it was so absurdly daring.
Boenish, of course, looked like he was having a laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
It was a really good film that did a good job of capturing a moment in
time and sketching out one man's contribution to Earth's history. 

It's the exciting portrait of Carl Boenish, once an engineer, found the
job boring in comparison to his hobby of Skydiving and while turning
this, and his love of film, into a career he help to create BASE
Jumping.

A lot of the footage from the movie was filmed by the subject himself,
as he loves to film his jumps as much or more than he love to jump. All
this personal footage made for a very personal documentary, especially
as his friends and family narrated the entire film and told their own
personal accounts of him.

One of the things I noticed about documentaries about subjects that are
barely thirty to thirty five years old is that they have a lot of
footage they can use. Boenish was enough of a celebrity in his own
time, that the doc was able to use footage from TV and news coverage of
the man as well as his own cinematography. And like other contemporary
docs they used a lot of different forms of medium, like reenactments of
things that did not happen on camera.

Which was not a lot. The filmmakers job was fairly easy as Carl love to
document his life, and what a life it was, filled with nothing but joy
and happiness, and inspiration to live life to the fullest to the very
end. 

Without doing much expect having the people still around to tell his
story, tell it story, it became an up tempo doc that gets your spirits
high after watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
There's an interesting charm of defying gravity and plummeting oneself
from extreme places, swirling away from the nature, crowd and traffic
below. Sunshine Superman is documentary about Carl Boenisch's life and
his drive which pioneers extreme sport of base jumping. It's a humble,
true to life outlook on his passion which is fascinatingly infectious
and inspiring.

The movie depicts early days of base jumping before it was even called
that. Using plenty of Carl's and his crew's perspective to display the
thrill and deliver the brief few seconds where men take flight. Many of
the clips come from retro films, which have surprisingly refined
technical effect considering they had no advance tech or even GoPro
back then and even had to use makeshift tools.

There's a bit of narrative to string everything together, aside from
the actual interviews or personal clips. Contrary to the dangerous vibe
the sport might present, Carl is a modest man. He's warm and avid about
the life style, one can't help to be engage by his sheer energy. Many
testimonies further set his personality, and even though he's not
involved directly in this documentary, audience can still connect to
the man.

It gives some ideas to casual viewers about the sport, how it began,
the original team behind it and what kind of tribulation they went
through. The movie is easily accessible, using simple terms and
approachable real life people. Some of its high octane first person
view of the sport is classic yet still exhilarating.

Sunshine Superman is a simple story about energetic man and the origin
of intense sport. It presents the extraordinary nature of jumping from
great heights and translates it into inviting and friendly experience
for all viewers.
<|_=00=_|>
This film made me cry and I am a man... It was a love story and also
very visually exciting. I saw it in Toronto and I am going to see it
again and again!! Carl Boenish was inspiring and really an amazing
character study. I wish the film were a bit longer but other then that
a perfect film. The old film footage was good to see. I loved the old
news footage and the great style of the current day stuff. The ending
scene was SICK!!!! IMDb is making me write more but really what I want
to say is you should see it. My GF even liked it despite the fact she
is afraid of heights. I felt like I wanted to try BASE jumping
something I never would actually go and do. I think seeing is this film
on the big screen is essential it is not a normal documentary.
