
The summer of 2014 hasn't seen as many strong independent films like
last year. However, in the final days of the summer movie season comes
Michael Dowse's "What If", a smart and charming romantic comedy. It's a
well written film about Wallace (Daniel Radcliffe) who becomes friends
with Chantry (Zoe Kazan) who is with her long time boyfriend Ben (Rafe
Spall). Wallace and Chantry develop feelings for each other and
struggle with what to do. It sounds cheesy and boring, but don't miss
this film. 

Elan Mastai's script is sharp and never over extends it hand. It
combines several kinds of humor, from slapstick to witty. Mastai's
screenplay balances all these humors well while also getting to the
heart of the situation. The film has depth and mature conversations
about romance and what to do when stuck in a love triangle.

The film is also well cast. Radcliffe feels very natural in the role.
It's nice to see him play an everyday man instead of some epic famous
character. Radcliffe is good at both and this film proves it. He also
has good chemistry with Kazan. Radcliffe and Kazan are balanced well
with Adam Driver's Allan and Mackenzie Davis' Nicole. Driver is
hilarious and steals the scenes. All of them fit their parts very well
and give the film its charm.

The story can be predictable and maybe a bit forced at times, but its
heart warming and grows on you. It uses artistic and visual motifs well
and feels well rounded and complete. The film also has a nice indie
rock soundtrack that fits right in. "What If" seems like a nice blend
between " (500) Days of Summer" and "When Harry Met Sally...". 

The romantic comedy genre seems to be criticized a lot. There are
plenty of junk films in it, but "What If" is a gem. It's well written
and acted and is able to balance many kinds of humors to please many
people. "What If" is a romantic comedy done right. It is a nice little
treat at the end of a blockbuster filled summer.
<|_=00=_|>
'What if' is about Wallace (Daniel Radcliffe), a heart broken medical
school dropout who meets Chantry (Zoe Kazan), an animator and Wallace's
love interest. The moment they meet, Wallace is in love. Unfortunately
for him, Chantry is already in a serious relationship and just wants to
be friends.

Like most movies of this genre, you can for the most part guess how
this movie progresses. However, that didn't really matter as the movie
was fun and quite enjoyable. Most of the jokes were witty and didn't
feel forced. All the relationships in the movie were enjoyable to watch
as well. All the actors did a great job as well. 

At the end, I had a good time watching this movie. It was a good fun
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to a screening of the F Word at the Toronto International Film
Festival and I can say I had a good time (I can also say that Daniel
Radcliffe is much much shorter in person than what you would expect.) I
wasn't sure what the story was or what type of movie it would be and
from the director of Goon and Fubar, I probably wouldn't have expected
a romantic comedy, but as it turns out it was and I quite enjoyed it. 

The film tells the story of Wallace (Daniel Radcliffe) and Chantry (Zoe
Kazan) who meet at a party when Wallace finally gets over being dumped
over a year ago and goes back into the world. He soon finds out that
Chantry has a boyfriend but the two of them decide they'll give a go at
being friends. Both characters are somewhat awkward and seem to have
little friends outside of Allan (Adam Driver) and Nicole (Mackenzie
Davis). Their best friends are common friends but for some unknown
reason they had never met before, probably due to Wallace being
somewhat emotionally unstable and completely shut off in his apartment
for months on end. 

The film is predictable overall but still brings some fresh moments. I
absolutely love Adam Driver and he plays more or less the same
character he plays on Girls but it was great to see him here. The
characters are lovable in their awkwardness and shyness and you do hope
for them to get together. They're also quite believable. Wallace was in
med school but dropped out (still because he got dumped honestly,
Wallace can't really handle being dumped) and now works at an
alienating low end job, while Chantry has that girl next door look and
works in an animation studio, with pressure to accept a promotion she's
not sure she wants. 

The film is cute for sure, but also really funny at times. I'm not a
huge fan of Daniel Radcliffe to begin with, having seen him only in the
obligatory Harry Potter series and the Woman in Black but he was quite
good, and different. It's a bit slow but I can't say that was an issue
for me. Toronto is featured a lot as the film was shot and takes place
there (for once, they're not pretending it's New York) so it was great
to see the city.

While there is no release date set, the director said the movie should
come out around Valentine's Day so by all means, if you're looking for
a fun comedy to watch, go see it. It's way better than most movies that
come out for the holiday and it's one I believe both women and men will
enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
What If asks a basic question if a friendship between a boy and a girl
could lead their relationship to something romantic. It isn't an idea
that we haven't heard before, of course, but for some reason the movie
does feel a lot fresh. It offers one thing that we don't always see in
a romantic film lately: an ultimately likable on screen couple. They
may not be a typical stale supermodel looking pair, the uniqueness it
highlights to these characters are their personalities and their
problems. It may not make their personal situations any complex, but it
still is a memorable little romcom that shines through its humor and
performances.

The film is best when it only settles with its two leads starting to
build their connection into friendship until it gets serious. What
makes this love story so genuine is their conversations as friends
pouring out their honest views toward something, like love or their
lives. Following its central plot would make the clich√©s visible, but
by just looking through the world of these characters is what helps it
show its own color. It also sells well when they reveal each of their
issues, it sometimes takes them as one of its jokes, but whenever it
gets compellingly heavy, it usually resolve those situations too easy.
It's probably because it wanted to focus more on its sweetness, but it
does still deserve some depth at the unthinkable fate of the
"friendzone".

The depth is instead placed on the actors. There is an undeniable charm
to be found in Daniel Radcliffe, even though his character is struck
with a cynical side personality and Zoe Kazan brings much of the soul
to the connection of every person her character jumps right into. Both
of them spark a strangely admirable chemistry that makes the witty
screen writing sound more lively. It just embraces the awkwardness of
their desires. The direction makes it real simple, though it does pull
off a little hipster-y animation when it shows their abstract feelings,
but most of the time it just let it linger at the very meaningful
moments.

The most important thing What If needs is gumption at portraying how
doomed the both are from ending up with each other, but it still is a
worth a watch for its often delightful environment. Its strongest
appeal is just the two stars tagging you along in their world of an
uncertain luck. Not sure what kind of people would leave the theater
having sudden thoughts of word magnets and art-driven animation, or
nachos and Fool's Gold Loaf, but to be sure this film has its
distinction as a romantic comedy. Overall, it's all pretty nice.
<|_=00=_|>
Romantic comedies have reached that point that horror seems to have
reached in that any tweaks in the formula has dwindle. There's only so
much that can be done to differentiate one movie from the others in the
genre and that's very true for the romantic comedy genre. The one
aspect that can truly help a movie in this subgenre is the strength of
its leads and the situations in which they are put into. What If
doesn't do anything new with the formula, but it provides enough charm
that overcomes the predictability to deliver a solid outing.

Good: This movie primarily is Daniel Radcliffe continuing separation
from Harry Potter and become a leading man and he does a good job. He's
charming, awkward, and you root for him to find love. Zoe Kazan works
on the same level as she also contributes a lot of likability and charm
to the movie. They both shine as their attempts to remain friends
begins to be a challenge. Adam Driver pops up as Radcliffe's friend and
he's always trusted to bring in some laughs. I also liked how Kazan's
boyfriend wasn't a complete jerk like most movies would have him be.
The movie also has this quirky indie comedy vibe to it with some nice
animation and silly flashbacks.

Bad: The main fault is that it is still a predictable rom com. It has
the two leads, they are friends, and then they realize that maybe
things could be different and well that can't be avoided. The movie
also has some lulls when it comes to the jokes as some of the comedy
doesn't work.

Overall, it is a charming romantic comedy very much in the vein of When
Harry Met Sally showcasing Radcliffe's growth as an actor. Well worth a
watch.
<|_=00=_|>
What a great movie to see as an escape from the mindless explosions in
so many "Hollywood" movies. The characters were great. It was very
funny! And it was touching. It would probably be in the "chick flick"
category, but that's an unfortunate way to pigeonhole this movie.
Spoiler alert!!! (I just want to be on the safe side.) I would classify
this movie as an updated version of When Harry Met Sally. Daniel
Radcliffe is excellent, as is the rest of the cast. We went to a sneak
preview a few days ago and I was kind of shocked to read that it was
made last year(2013) and "might have a Valentine 2014 release". What
the heck happened? I am glad it has a release date for next
month(8-2014) I am going to spread the word via Facebook and texts.
Great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
It doesn't use an original idea nor does it stay clear from the usual
RomCom tropes and the plot is sort of predictable. But even though it
has all the ingredients for a derivative flick it feels fresh and is
quite entertaining. Mainly it's because of Radcliffe and Kazan, the
more original dialogues and by staying clear from slapstick comedy.
Also the story by itself feels convincing as a whole and the characters
stay consistent and relatable for the most part. Though, by the end you
also recognize that they slandered a lot of potential by going the
usual RomCom route. It could have been better by doing a few things
differently, which I'm not going to name here to avoid spoilers.

Bottom line, if you like RomComs then you will probably like this one.
If you don't like the genre at all you may still find this one bearable
enough to sit through it next to someone.
<|_=00=_|>
Wallace (Daniel Radcliffe) and Chantry (Zoe Kazan) meet at a mutual
friend's party and instantly bond with one another. Chemistry between
them is flawless and spontaneous ¬ñ but she has a boyfriend, which
leaves recently heart-broken Wallace in the 'friend-zone'.

Containing much witty dialogue, quirky references and probably
redefining the entire term awkward ¬ñ 'What If' seems firm and fresh in
style, yet is typically conventional in story, hindering on the exact
narrative of Harry Met Sally actually ...

Lead star Daniel Radcliffe, seems as if he is still trying to get to
grips with genre post HP and distancing himself after trying a mixture
of features; Woman in Black, Kill Your Darlings, and upcoming horrors;
Horns and Frankenstein. Nonetheless, he seems concrete in his first
Rom- Com performance and we want to see more.

Also interesting to see him play a Brit in an American/Canadian film,
rather than putting on an accent like a baffled Hugh Grant we are used
to in this Richard Curtis-esqe movie. We see great potential ahead of
him and are going to go ahead and call it that Dan' will win an Academy
award before 2018 is out.

Alongside Radcliffe stars Zoe Kazan in an equally exceptional
performance (her best yet), and co-starring upcoming Star Wars actor
Adam Driver for even more humour ¬ñ the film is solid. A film coming
from the director of both Goon and Fubur, set our expectations low, but
it impressed and entertained by taking and old story and remixing it
with an indie feel.

'What If' arrives in UK cinemas on the 20th August 2014.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie on a flight and found it pretty enjoyable. It's
fairly staple Rom Com script.

Wallace (Daniel Radcliffe) and Chantry (Zoe Cazan) become best friends,
but do they want more than to be just friends. Chantry has a long term
boyfriend Ben who she is very close to, so it seems they will remain
just good friends regardless of whether Wallace wants more.

This is pretty much by the numbers rom com storyline. They've been
churning these out for years and will continue to do so. It seemed
pretty unlikely that Wallace and Chantry would have been best friends
and the relationship between them doesn't really ring true. It's pretty
watchable though and a good way to pass a couple of hours.
<|_=00=_|>
"I will look, if you'll look"

-Chantry

It's been a long while since i first heard of the this film, it was
more than a year ago when it premiered at Toronto. God damn it's been a
year and this year's edition is already gone. It's the biggest film
festival of the year, of all the pictures that were there i have now
seen a massive fifty, which tells a lot about the Festival's quality
(since most were good). Though more than done a year ago, the film has
only been recently released with a nice warm embrace from critics and
audiences. I didn't expect one of the year's best but still hoped it
would be a worthy romantic comedy.

What If is Directed by Michael Dowse and it stars Daniel Radcliffe, Zoe
Kazan, Rafe Spall, Megan Park, Adam Driver, Jemima Rooper and Sarah
Gadon. "WHAT IF is the story of medical school dropout Wallace, who's
been repeatedly burned by bad relationships. So while everyone around
him, including his roommate Allan seems to be finding the perfect
partner, Wallace decides to put his love life on hold. It is then that
he meets Chantry an animator who lives with her longtime boyfriend Ben.
Wallace and Chantry form an instant connection, striking up a close
friendship. Still, there is no denying the chemistry between them,
leading the pair to wonder, what if the love of your life is actually
your best friend?"

Well What If does end up being a worthy romantic comedy i guess. This
meaning that's entertaining and charming enough to be worth a watch, no
questions asked but i don't really know if it can be much more. I did
have an overall good time with it, the movie has enough laughs and the
stars are quite brilliant too, the thing though is that i felt as
though i had already seen it. This is a fine time at the movies but it
does feel way too predictable and overly familiar.

It makes me sad not to really like this feature because, you know, i
actually really wanted to. Mainly because of the two leads who are
quite charismatic and have a good on screen chemistry, but also because
it's so clear that the film's intentions are good and that made me
overlook some flagrant flaws. And the movie has many of those.

I'm having a battle within me right now, a battle between my cynical
and cold side who thinks (and rightfully so) that this picture is way
too familiar and foreseeable and the other side of me who was quite
entertained and charmed by these characters and performances. In the
end i think i met somewhere in the middle. Because albeit this is
always an enjoyable film to be watching, i did get some moments where i
couldn't help but to roll my eyes. It's full of clich√©s and it's a
shame. Full of sub-plots (and the premise too) and supporting
characters that felt way too conventional and plain. I mean really the
supporting characters though amusing, are little more than card board
pieces in the movie's screenplay.

So yeah the film is basically saved by it's two lead performances from
Potter Daniel Radcliffe and Ruby Sparks Zoe Kazan. I really liked both
here and i thought they were also good together on screen. Radcliffe
plays his characters well, never makes him too weird or annoying, he
gets the right tone of his character. Zoe Kazan is just so cute...i
mean how could you not like her. Big blue eyes, i had already liked her
in the better and more original Ruby Sparks and she once again charms
the screen.

What If is undeniably a pleasant movie going experience but
unfortunately it does fall short from being much more than that. The
two lead performances and a screenplay that ha some funny gags in it,
elevate a material that's overall not that great and was made with an
approach that wasn't really that inventive. Still i had a good time and
i would feel a bit guilty giving a negative score to a film that didn't
impress but didn't leave a bad taste in my mouth either.

Rating:C+
