
Mike Leigh's latest film Another Year follows the story of a happily
married couple approaching their retirement years. Their warm
relationship offers them security as the the film progresses. Their
friends and family, by contrast, all struggle to some extent with
unhappiness, and a sense that their best years may be behind them.

The film is a story of ageing; the small events that can make life
either comforting or unbearable; and the refuge that companionship can
offer.

Rut Sheen's role as Gerri is superb. Her open, welcoming face invites
her friend and colleague Mary (played by Lesley Manville) to open up to
her about her drunken fears of where her life is leading. Jim
Broadbent's Tom is charming and self-effacing, confident in his own
happiness yet nonplussed at the failure of his friend Ken  Peter Wight
 to come to terms with growing old.

The film dwells on the small, predominantly non-verbal signals that
reveal emotional and social insecurity. Leigh's direction reminds us
that the sharpest insights into character lie in moments where we think
we at our most concealed. Faces betray what we wish were kept private 
at moments where verbal communication fails, physical expression lights
up hidden fears, passions, failings and desires.

Leigh treats all his characters with a certain dignity  whilst there
are moments where we are encouraged to laugh at their social
inadequacies, for the most part we suffer along with them, knowing that
their experiences are all too near reality to take lightly. We
encourage Tom and Gerri to keep supporting their despairing friends,
yet knowing at the same time that their married happiness can only
serve to mock their friends' lonely lives further. The four strictly
partitioned seasons of the film point towards a growing anxiety that it
may in fact be too late for these lost characters. The cyclical nature
of the structure suggests that there is no real remedy for those left
unloved and lonely at the film's conclusion.

From the opening scene, where a woman silently struggles to recollect
the happiest moment in her life, to the point when the dialogue slowly
fades away to leave Mary isolated and forlorn, we cannot help but be
both enchanted and dismayed by the emotional honesty of Mike Leigh's
characters. This is what sets out the director as a truly gifted artist
 his ability to heighten the routine into the dramatic; and to make
the trivial, truly tragic.
<|_=00=_|>
Tom and Gerri (Jim Broadbent and Ruth Sheen), the couple at the centre
of Mike Leigh's latest existential piece, couldn't be more unlike the
cartoon characters who share their names. Together for several decades,
their love for each other has only grown. I wouldn't complain if my
marriage looked like theirs when I'm in my 50s.

When he isn't working as a geologist and she isn't counselling people,
they spend their time providing solace to those who need it  Ken
(Peter Wight), a straight-talking, John Smiths-drinking Yorkshireman;
Ronnie (David Bradley), Tom's laconic brother whose wife has just died;
and most of all Mary (Lesley Manville), a jittery colleague of Gerri's
in the middle of a mid-life crisis. It is Mary who dominates the film
and who most elicits our empathy. She is without love and possibly even
without the hope of love. It is genuinely painful to see her
disintegrate scene by scene. 

As another year in Tom and Gerri's life unfolds, we see nothing
particularly fascinating happen. They tend to their allotment, they
invite people to their house for food and company, and they reminisce
about their experiences. Nothing could be more trivial, right? Wrong.
This film is about growing old and making the right choices as one gets
to old age. Above all it's about recognising that happiness is less a
right than an aspiration.

The word 'integrity' comes to mind when I think of Mike Leigh. Who else
could convince actors to sign up to films where there was no script to
begin with? Throughout his career he has eschewed the Hollywood system
and has done things his own way ('Given the choice of Hollywood or
poking steel pins in my eyes, I'd prefer steel pins'). 

An audience member expostulated at the end, 'That wasn't very
uplifting'. She's correct, but Leigh doesn't offer folly or fantasy.
He's a truth-seeking social observer and commentator. What's also
appealing about Leigh is that he doesn't spoon-feed his audience. His
films compel the watcher to debate what they have seen and draw their
own conclusions. Why should films give us answers? 

I was moved by this film like no other in recent memory. One moment I
was laughing uncontrollably, the next I was holding back tears. The
film emphasises a sad fact: for some people, things don't always go
according to plan. Sometimes we're just plain unlucky. And that's life.

www.scottishreview.net
<|_=00=_|>
This is a big movie tackling big themes, and may, like Happy-Go-Lucky
(Mike Leigh's previous film) prove extremely Marmitish. The latter
comment may prove hard to understand if you're not British, and that's
just like the film (Marmite is a British spread made from yeast extract
with a love-it-or-hate-it umami/savoury/salty flavour). Another Year
deals with a particularly British form of social breakdown and
emotional constipation.

In Britain, from the 40s to the 70s there was widespread use of an exam
system called the 11+. Up until the age of 11-12 students were schooled
together, after that point, students considered to have more potential
by the standards of the 11+ examinations were streamed separately in
Grammar Schools, prepared for success, whilst those below the boundary
line were sent to Secondary Modern Schools where the focus was much
more on practical education (bricklaying, "home economics", woodwork,
etc). The legacy of this system has been huge social resentment. There
is a feeling in Another Year that the system is back, in the form of
university education. With the UK attempting to educate 50% of the
secondary school student population to university level, a socially
engineered bifurcation to haves and have-nots is being created once
again.

All of the characters in the film are from working class backgrounds
and yet the fortunes that life has graced them with are distinctly
uneven, they have gone in different directions, absent any idea of a
shared experience that may have been the rock of previous generations
of Britons. Graduates Tom and Gerri (pun intended) have fulfilling
careers, heartfelt love for one another, high incomes, and have had the
opportunity to travel widely. Tom's brother and Gerri's friend Mary are
aging and alone, undereducated, lacking in the kind of accomplishments
that are social currency, living with hurt, and in Mary's case,
desperation. The message is not all one way, old friend of the family
Ken is also a graduate and yet has not managed to find a place in life
either.

Scenes in the movie almost exclusively concern Tom and Gerri's catering
to this group of friends and family. They deal with the misfortunes of
this circle with a mixture of humour, irony, good cooking and alcohol,
but mostly conceal their compassion and are helpless onlookers.

The mating game is key here, the unwedded 40+s exist in a state of
unsalved distress, futureless, scrapped. Even 30-year-old Joe,
functional, graduate, well-employed and witty has struggled to find
someone to be with. A notable absence in the movie is a sense of
solidarity, community, public events, shared lives and shared values.
There's an illiquidity in the relationships marketplace, a lack of
feeling and connection, all leading to a general anomie and social
constipation.

However painful the lives of Ken and Mary are, the film gives
occasional glimpses of far more infernal lives, lower circles of hell
where dissatisfaction has paralysed characters with rage or utter
resignation. Anything more than a glimpse would have made the film
unwatchable.

Gone are the days when WWII veterans would whimper their way through
night-times of post-traumatic hallucination for forty years without
mentioning it to a soul, however the British "stiff upper lip" still
remains as a guiding principle in this movie. There is still very much
the assumption that one should keep one's private hell to oneself, or
else outsource emotion to a therapist.

What may be controversial in the film is the way you look at how Tom
and Gerri treat Mary. A German lady in the audience voiced her opinion
to Mike Leigh that the way they treated her was to look down on her,
and that she felt this was inappropriate. Mike Leigh responded that the
lady felt like this because she was a German and Germans did not
understand irony. Maybe I suffer from the same problem because I for
one felt that Mary was treated as little more than a baby, and with a
certain hauteur, arms-length love. I think people who are lonely need
to feel useful. Mary for example was never allowed to help with
anything, though this does not excuse her, at times, appalling
behaviour (depression makes people selfish, however I feel it necessary
to point out as well that someone who is drowning in a river and
calling for a life ring, is also being "selfish" in the same way, and I
think metaphorically the position is very similar).

Dour joyless watching, maybe one for the Cabinet to watch, after the
example of the film La Haine, which concentrated on French malaise and
was screened in front of the French cabinet at the instigation of Prime
Minister Alain Juppé.
<|_=00=_|>
In Mike Leigh's new slice of life, Another Year, a married couple who
have managed to remain blissfully happy into their crumbling autumn
days are surrounded over the course of the four seasons of one
seemingly average year by friends, colleagues, and family, many of whom
appear to suffer some degree of unhappiness or at least confusion. The
film is nicely segmented into chapters, following the seasons. All of
life is there - from birth, to a funeral. Strangely, or conveniently,
given the apparently troubled lives all round, She works as a
psychotherapist, while He builds things, but both spend their spare
time together growing vegetables in their allotment. Mary, the
secretary in her clinic, takes over the centre of the story as she
gradually moves into more of everyone's lives. Or perhaps it's just
that the film gradually opens up the relationship that was already
there. Just as it is with all the extra characters. As it's a Mike
Leigh film, all the actors will all have been living "in character" for
maybe six months before breezing through, stirring up the plot with
their back story and emotional infrastructure.

Lesley Manville, as Mary, the lonely and unstable girl of a certain age
- 40, going on 17, really steals this in the final part, which gets
even more intense than the rest of it. One thing I noticed right away
was that adding to the intensity of the Mike Leigh close-ups, it's all
shot in high-definition digital. But in the end it's the total effect
that works. The apparent non-acting. The marvellous thing about Leigh
is the way he shows really ordinary people doing really ordinary things
and makes them really important. He is so compassionate towards
everyone in his stories. You just can't help caring, too.
<|_=00=_|>
Lesley Manville as Mary truly deserves the Best Actor Oscar for her
perfectly nuanced, scary and convincing portrayal of a woman on the
brink of personal desperation due to her many life mistakes and to her
extremely fragile emotional nature that served to spiral her further
and further down toward mental illness with every romantic
disappointment and life mistake she made. Honestly, I do not think
Meryl Streep could have played this role as well. Lesley was that great
in it. An astounding performance, and so touching, as you felt every
pain Mary felt due to Lesley's spot-on interpretation of her
character's neediness and weaknesses and what they cost her.

This film tells a story(by the 4 seasons)of a year in the lives of a UK
couple and their friends. Mary is a secretarial co-worker and friend of
Gerri, a professional counselor and the sweet wife of her well-rumpled
and very likable engineer/geologist husband, Tom(yes, Tom and Gerri).
Mary is the woman we all know at some time or another in our lives....
a woman too attractive to always be alone but always is alone after
every failed attempt at a relationship, always suffering badly from
each failure to find what she wants so badly.

Not much of an intricate plot here, as in all Mike Leigh films, but the
story was such an absorbing and typical Mike Leigh take on the
day-to-day happenings in the ordinary and everyday lives of a normal UK
couple and some at-risk friends. Tom and Gerri were the couple with
these friends in various states of decline, and they always tried hard
through their gentle patience, understanding and humor to help them and
always be there for them. Ruth Sheen and the great Tom Broadbent played
the wife/husband roles to perfection, and were so loving, likable and
comfortable with each other and with friends that you wished you had
them for your own friends. Wonderful portrayals, both.

See this film for engaging personal interaction and for the best acting
performance of 2010, but be prepared for your own uncomfortable and
awkward feelings throughout due to Mary's many sufferings and how her
endless tales of them affected her(long-suffering)friends. It was a
truly human story, sometimes warm and funny, sometimes pathetic and
difficult to watch, but at the end you knew you had seen acting
greatness.
<|_=00=_|>
A strange and sad little film beautifully acted by its ensemble cast.
Lesley Manville's agonised performance as Mary, aching with envy at the
solidity and comfort of her best friend's solid marriage, must be a
shoo-in for awards next year, but Ruth Sheen is also 100% believable as
the endlessly patient, almost 'saintly' Gerri. Jim Broadbent's Tom
teeters on the verge of hamminess, allowing Peter Wight to steal the
male acting honours as Ken, another lonely and alcoholic divorcée.

After a sad Spring and a prickly Summer, Autumn brings romance to Tom
and Gerri's bachelor son and Winter brings a funeral (not the one we've
been dreading). Anchored by the couple's devotion to their allotment,
Mike Leigh gives us a film about the seasons in our lives as well as in
our vegetable patches. In life, as in the garden, some things flourish
and blossom while others wither and decay.

Often humorous but mostly achingly sad, this is a very fine film about
the Ordinary Lives of Ordinary People. Not to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. How DARE he? Mike Leigh is such a
non-compliant filmmaker. He just refuses to follow the rules ... and
film goers are the benefactors of his daring. Mind you, his daring is
not in the regards of special effects, stunt work or trick photography.
No sir. His daring is with the subject, theme, tone and characters. He
is ... GASP ... unafraid of real people! If you have seen Mr. Leigh's
work in "Happy-Go-Lucky" or "Vera Drake", you understand that his films
can be simplistic on the surface, while carrying multiple layers of
commentary and observations. He also has the classic British sense of
humor in that very few "punchlines" exist. Instead the humor comes in
allowing the viewer to recognize the characters as someone they know,
or God forbid, even their own self! 

Mr. Leigh has a history of making films without a script ... only broad
based outlines for the characters. The actors then work to fill in the
details of the individuals, which in turn, forms a story. This explains
why the story does not follow the traditional arc. In fact, the story
has no real beginning or ending. What we see are the interactions of
people who are friends, relatives, co-workers, acquaintances and
strangers. 

The foundation of the film, as well as the foundation for most of the
other characters in the film, is the happily married couple of Tom and
Gerri, played by the terrific Jim Broadbent and Ruth Sheen. This is a
couple who not only love and respect each other, but also enjoy being
together. Their friends and family come in and out of their lives, but
their bond is strong.

Key amongst this group is their friend, and Gerri's co-worker, Mary
(Lesley Manville). Mary is someone we all recognize. She is single, not
getting any younger, desperately trying to avoid loneliness (too often
with a bottle), masking her fear through fake excitement, and latched
onto the security blanket offered by Tom and Gerri's friendship.

When family friend Ken (Peter Wight) makes a move on Mary, she shuns
him because of his lack of perfection. She always thinks she can do
better. When she begins fixating on Tom and Gerri's son Joe (Oliver
Maltman), we really feel her pain but just want to slap some sense into
her. The relationships all take a hit when Mary shows up for dinner and
is introduced to Joe's new girlfriend ... a wonderfully charming and
talented Katie (Karina Fernandez). Mary acts the selfish fool and it
drives a wedge between she and Gerri. There is even a line of dialogue
earlier on ... never come between a mother and her son! Another
character we are witness to includes the great Imelda Staunton as a
depressed middle-aged woman who comes to Gerri for professional
guidance. We also meet David Bradley as Tom's older brother, Ronnie,
whose wife has recently passed.

All of these situations and personalities are balanced by Tom and Gerri
as they provide a stable environment ... it's as if they are a fountain
of sanity from which everyone wishes to drink. As an added touch, none
of the characters are Hollywood beauties. Broadbent and Ms. Sheen would
never be mistaken for Brad and Angelina. Rather they are more likely to
look like someone you know ... and better yet, their characters live
like people you WANT to know. So again I ask ... How dare he?
<|_=00=_|>
This movie touches upon current sociological and psychological
conditions that result to alienation and loneliness. The theme repeats
itself on the problematic characters of a group of friends in their
50s, namely Ken and Mary as well as Tom's brother. They all resort to
alcohol but that is the side effect of their problem, not the root
cause. There is an unfortunate equation between single people and
despair. This bias is expressed also in the story of the couple's son,
who seems to worry during the time he is single and who 'has it made'
once he finds a girl who assumes his parents' acceptance and
friendship, admits she is starving to people she just met (no manners)
and licks her fingers (no manners). Meanwhile Tom and Gerry are the
voice of reason and somehow, I felt they were also Mike Leigh's voice.
Of course, as others here have mentioned, their portrayal may not be
seen as virtuous as I have perceived it. There is a certain coldness
within their kindness about them just as cold as the way the priest
received the late-coming son of the deceased woman at the funeral. 

Mary who is at the centre of the film, is a pile of trouble. She is
turned down by Tom and Gerry's ugly son and Tom's socially handicapped
brother, only to get attention from fat and alcoholic Ken. In a
desperate move to celebrate her independent life rather than mourn for
her loneliness, she buys a car but that only becomes a source of more
trouble. As if Leigh wants to tell us that no car can give her the
happy life of a married couple who live in harmony cultivating their
veggies. The question that floats in the air can be whether her
unbalanced character has caused her loneliness or vice versa. What
keeps this film together are the masterful indoor scenes, the
convincing dialogues and the top notch acting. Careful considerations
have been made in how people act in their everyday lives and that has
been extraordinarily engaging.
<|_=00=_|>
A happily married couple is followed over the changing seasons. The
portray is that of harmony, love and togetherness. This is as perfect
as it gets. Then we get introduced to their friends who are frequently
invited for dinner and drinks. They all have something in common :
Broken marriages, alcoholism and self denial. The contrast couldn't be
more surreal. Especially Mary, who is longing for love and friendship.
Her emotional hurt is tangible.

This movie is not about the couple or anything else, it is about Mary
and her shambolic life, the pain that she derives from loneliness and
her utter failure to get her life back together. Brilliantly and
stunningly directed by Leigh, this is a masterpiece of portraying a
character that will be, strikingly and tragically, all too familiar
with most of us.
<|_=00=_|>
Another Year is the kind of film an actor wishes they had been in and
any director wishes they had made. Mike Leigh's skillful directing is
at its peak. Long, lingering shots of the characters angst (which
normally frustrate the audience) are achieved in an effortless way. The
acting is so flawless that it is difficult to find fault. The story is
simple and meandering...but it works, and works incredibly well.
Another Year will not be to the taste of the young kick-cutting action
packed generation. It requires a mature audience or an audience that
have at least pondered about what their life would be like after their
forties.

This will gain nominations and should win Oscars.
