
Of all the Pixar movies Monsters Inc. has always been my absolute
favorite. The incredible story of the remarkable friendship between
Sully, Mike and Boo made me watch the movie more than 10-15 times
already. When it was released on blu-ray I was the first one to buy it.
So when Pixar announced another Monsters movie I got concerned. How
could Pixar make a better movie than the original? Or even one that
equalled it? But having seen the movie last week I can ensure you all:
Pixar is back on top. Monsters University is great fun and it's Pixar
best since Up!.

Monsters University, a prequel to Monsters Inc., begins with a young
and very little Mike Wazowski (Billy Crystal) still in primary school.
After a field trip to Monsters Inc. he has only one dream: to become a
scarer. Years later he arrives at Monsters University but soon learns
he still has a long way to go. His main problem? Mike isn't scary at
all. He befriends his roommate young Randall (Steve Buscemi), who at
that time is an unimportant loser (and later gets seduced by the dark
side). The first night he makes an enemy out of Sully (John Goodman), a
freshman who thinks that his family name (of legendary scarers) is
enough to get him through school. A personal vendetta is born.

Things go wrong when Mike and Sully accidentally destroy a sacred item
that belongs to the devilish Dean Hardscrabble (a brilliant Helen
Mirren). They get expelled from all Scare Classes and will not graduate
as a real Scarer. Luckily Mike comes up with a plan, a bet with the
dean. If he finds a team to compete in the Scare Games and if he indeed
wins, he's allowed to follow the Scare Classes until the end. Dean
Hardscrabble approves. Now it's up to Mike, Sully and his team of
losers to work as a team and go the distance

In Monsters University the Scare Games are very well done. I can see
both kids and adults laughing their socks off when Mike and Sully, in
the same team but still enemies, are doing their first race and try not
to step on the items that make their body grow. Bizarre, but hilarious!
Their next assignment, when they have to steal something in the
library, is also a winner. But what really works in Monsters University
is that the story is mainly about friendship. We not only see how Mike
and Sully turn from big enemies into big friends; they become soul
mates for life. To join the Scare Games Mike must find five extra
members to form a team and the only ones left are a bunch of nerds that
no one pays attention to and a big blue monster that he absolutely
hates (Sully). Still Mike succeeds in making it work. 

Even when you know that Mike and Sully will win the Scare Games (that
isn't a spoiler, is it?), this film isn't predictable at all. It
doesn't end with Sully holding up the Scare cup but it takes one more
great scene to bring Mike and Sully definitely together. I will not
spoil it for you, but it involves a door to the human world and a
little green monster that's depressed. 

Monsters University is a great film. It's both funny and sentimental in
all the right places. Fans of the first movie will see a lot of cameos
in this one (Yeti!). The story ends when Monsters Inc. begins. I will
even advise the next generation to see Monsters University first and
then go on to Monsters Inc.

Yeah, my faith in Pixar is restored. Although I must confess that with
Planes coming up, things can change very fast in the wrong direction.
But maybe that's because I have never liked the Cars movie.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
" Monsters University" is a new film from Pixar that is a prequel to
their film "Monsters Inc.". In addition to the two main characters, a
whole lot of new characters are introduced at the college that Mike and
Sully attended. The plot involves Mike trying to become a 'scaring
major'something quite unthinkable since he isn't the least bit scary.
There's a lot more to the film than this, but I won't spoil it by
saying more about the plot.

My daughter was lucky enough to go to the debut of "Monsters
University". She liked it but also felt the story was disappointing
since it lacked original characters and the story reminded her of too
many college films (like "Revenge of the Nerds" and "Animal House"). My
wife saw it with me and she said that the film put her to sleep! This
is all very odd, as I am usually the most difficult to please in the
family when it comes to filmsyet I thoroughly enjoyed the film and
nearly gave it a 9. While I would agree it lacks originality, it did
make me smile. It was a nice, gentle filmone that I didn't mind just
watching without picking it apart (like I usually do). Much of this is
because the CGI was simply gorgeous and It was a pleasure watching such
a beautiful filmas well as such a nice and enjoyable film.
<|_=00=_|>
First and foremost, this movie should be almost painfully relatable to
the Disney Renaissance Generation. For the convenience of the meanings
told in Disney and Pixar films, couldn't be more relatable to the age
of those born in the mid 90's growing up. Also, for the question of a
Monsters Inc. Prequel being necessary? Make that decision after the
credits roll, for this was the most enjoyable movie I've seen so far in
2013. In an overwhelming blockbuster summer of over-hyped excitement
followed by mild to severe disappointment, Monsters University isn't
just a good sign for Pixar, it's a good sign that 2013 can be one of
the best years of film. 

Now! On to the review! The story of the origin of the friendship
between one-eyed Mike Wazowski and the blue furred James P. Sullivan in
their freshman year at Monsters University. This film has homages to
all the classic college comedy movies, and as it doesn't hold out on
laughs for the kids and adults, it has a great amount of heart.
Questions of what the future holds, and if our dreams are as possible
as we hope they are. Punches aren't pulled on these questions, which is
why it isn't just some animated movie to take the kids to see. 

References to real college life are blended with superb imagination of
the monster world. Rather it be a long blonde haired guitar player, or
the horns on the school bus. All original voice talent returns and
keeps up with the track record of great performances in Pixar films.
Billy Crystal, John Goodman, and Steve Buscemi grasp their characters
and give them entirely different motivations compared to the original.
Instead of a hardworking team, the two have a rivalry, and the
supporting cast of their fraternity supply more relatability with a
great variety of lovable monsters who help fill the story with even
more heart. 

The compatibility with Mike and Sully can be a bit surprising, for one
is the study hard teachers pet, and the other a natural born scare
student. And just as you think your more like one, the other comes in
and you realize that even monsters can be scared of the real world just
like us today. Fear of what life has in store, and if we have the
talent to fulfill our dreams. This is a theme a lot of critics are
missing, and shines making it worthy of being a great Pixar movie and
prequel to a great classic. 

The story isn't terribly generic as one may think, and every act is
more different from the last. Starting with the clash between Mike and
Sully, then onto the scare games, an intense series of games that
declare supremacy of M.U. For the third and final act couldn't be more
surprising though. It not only serves as a great climax, but something
that we can once again commend Pixar for telling great stories in out
of the box thinking that we should think paying for the $10 dollar
ticket is worth it. And boy did I think this movie was worth it, for I
will be definitely be seeing it a second and possibly third time. It
wasn't a prequel we originally wanted, but it was a film that we and
Pixar needed. And boy am I glad it happened.
<|_=00=_|>
Monsters University is the prequel to Monsters inc., a wildly popular
animation by Pixar. It's basically a college movie set in the monster
world, but with a nice deviation from the standard.

The good. Still the same incredibly interesting world with all its
colors, fantastic creatures, and quirks. Interesting story, especially
for the twist. Great animation, as usual. Easily enjoyable by adults.
Perfect ending. Excellent voice acting.

The bad. Lots of college movie, underdogs, and jocks versus nerds
clichés.

The ugly. Nothing.

The result. If you liked the first one, you'll like this one too.
<|_=00=_|>
With Animation industries overproducing computer-animated films for
either sequels or prequels, expectations from critiques and longtime
cartoon lovers who grew up with classic Disney movies are pretty high.
For this reason, It has been a while since I get to be surrounded by
parents who like to bring their kids to let them enjoy bright and
comical scenes. 

After coming to the theater with low excitement, not only does this
movie exceed my expectation but it also proves that Pixar is not a sort
of company that tries to take audience's wherewithal by making a
mediocre prequel based on the reputation of an original one. 

As usual, Pixar consistently unleashes intriguing, unique, and
appealing characters with flexible movements and simplified traits that
attract a wide range of audiences. Especially when it comes to
presenting different breeds of monsters with extraordinary looks and
abilities, followed by an absolute storytelling skill that moves
everyone's emotion. 

As the setting takes place in the old days before Mike and Sullivan get
to work together in Monsters, inc., you get to find out how they meet
and grow their friendship. The story consists of both internal and
external conflicts that college students can unanimously relate to.
Pixar does an amazing job on capitalizing as much college-related
elements as possible to emphasize the importance of corroborations,
personal identity, and working hard to achieve your goal. There are
also tons of humors that make you laugh periodically. 

In a nutshell, this is a sincere and endeavored film that sends us
various messages to help us progress in many different ways. I strongly
recommend this to all the students out there who are struggling with
their school life. It is such an inspirational movie and Pixar still
rocks!
<|_=00=_|>
The first Monsters Inc. came out when i was just 7 years old and
immediately became one of my all time favourites from the day I saw it.
With extremely high expectations in mind and excitement especially for
Pixar's close attention to relevance (as I am actually at university
now myself) I went to see the new one as soon as it came out.

The film is a prequel following closely to our much loved earlier
Characters, Mike and later Sully as they present to us their lives
prior to the first movie. As well as an adorable new cast of monsters
which are equally lovable as the old ones.

To my delight, the film exceeded most if not all my earlier
expectations. The plot is well written, funny and most of all extremely
heart warming especially to long time fans like myself as well as those
younger viewers that might not have even seen the first one.

The nostalgic element of the film is perhaps the most well written.
Every twist and turn reveals a huge or tiny explanation to the events
and habits of the characters that I previously saw in the first film.
Questions I never even asked myself, like why Randall's eyes are so
squinty or how Sully and Randall's rivalry originated. 

Although i absolutely loved the movie, perhaps its because I've waited
for 12 years but at some points it left me slightly unsatisfied and I'd
have loved for some parts to be explained more thoroughly. 

Regardless of my only criticism, the movie made me laugh, cried with
tears of joy, almost actually cried and was both heart warming and
action packed. What more could you ask for? I urge those fans of the
first film as well as anyone that just wants to have a good time at the
cinema to see it. It'll be well worth your time!
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard about this and saw trailers, I felt like it would be
OK, a good laugh but not enough to really challenge other Pixar films.
I can safely say that I was wrong on that score, for it manages to not
only be successful prequel to the original film but also a great film
in its own right. Billy Crystal and John Goodman slip effortlessly back
into their roles as Mike Wazowski and Sully despite playing younger
versions of themselves. The other main highlight of the voice cast is
Helen Mirren's intimidating Dean Hardscrabble, who is a menacing
presence and I'm sure the design of her character was modelled on
Maleficent from Sleeping Beauty. Steve Buscemi's Randall also returns
and although I felt that he would have a stronger part in the movie,
the seeds are sown for his villainous ways in the original.

What astounded me was the creativity throughout the film, the effort
that had gone into the university environment and the monsters that
inhabited it (there's one monster who has university down pat in a
hilarious moment that all students will understand!). The new
characters that become Mike and Sully's friends, the Oozma Kappa gang,
are all adorable and memorable, providing a lot of the film's humour as
well as one of its most touching moments towards the end. The film is
consistently hilarious but also remembers that it has to develop the
initial rivalry then friendship of Mike and Sulley. The world set up in
the original is also included more than I thought it would (a couple of
trips to Monsters Inc. itself) and there are some brilliant cameos from
two memorable characters from Inc.

Although the friend I was watching it with said that the film was low
stakes, as you knew how it would end, I found that the film still
managed to feel fresh despite dealing with underdog clichés and the
problem of being a prequel. In a Q and A after the preview screening,
the director and producer said that this was about when your dreams
don't come true: a strangely anti-Disney philosophy in many ways but
one that is honest and teaches kids reality about the world of work,
none more so than a delightful montage of pictures explaining how Mike
and Sully ended up in their respective positions in Inc. I haven't seen
Cars 2 (not sure I want to) and although I enjoyed Brave, it is
definitely lesser Pixar fare whereas Monsters University sees them back
at the top, creating a touching and hilarious story that will hopefully
see them get back to dishing out the quality every time.

I am a bit confused as to some of the critical reviews, and why this
film currently has 75% on Rotten Tomatoes is beyond me. I sincerely
hope this will go up, because it should be nearer 90. I watched Finding
Nemo in 3D in April and although Nemo isn't my favourite Pixar, MU is
easily as good as that. One critic argues that this film is too similar
to The Internship...well that's the Internship's problem, as this film
will have been longer in the making undoubtedly and judging from IMDb
score doesn't seem to have anywhere near the same creativity and
imagination behind it. This may not scale the heights of the Toy Story
trilogy but it most certainly is not forgettable and the fact that I
nearly shed a tear at one point (and it was NOT for the main two
characters funnily enough) proves that the film gives more than just
'how did Sulley and Mike become friends'. If everyone keeps expecting
Pixar to produce a Toy Story every time and if they leave a film having
not experienced that and express their disappointment/outrage as a
result, that's unfair. My favourite Pixars are Toy Story 1-3, Monsters
Inc and Wall-E (10/10), then Incredibles, Up, Finding Nemo, Bug's Life
(9/10) and I would place Monsters University just after A Bug's Life
but in many ways it's probably better.

9/10 (RT had better follow suit)
<|_=00=_|>
MONSTERS UNIVERSITY is a prequel to MONSTERS INC., directed by Dan
Scanlon. The characters include the voices of Billy Crystal, John
Goodman, Hellen Mirren.

The film goes back to where Mike Wazowski and James P. Sullivan were
before they were buddies and in Monsters Inc. It shows how the two of
them were in university, showing the relationship between them which
led up to the two of them becoming the best of friends.

Alright, so MIKE AND SULLY ARE BAACKK!!! Well, thats what every kid or
adult that was associated with the enjoyment of Monsters Inc should
say. Okay, so it's been 12 years since we saw these two on-screen,
providing us with animated humor, and now they're back again, to show
us how they were in University. The teaser trailer was extremely funny
as it showed a prank played on Mike by Sully, and it gave a short
look-in into the sort of relationship we would be seeing. Soon enough,
the trailer came out and boy did it get people hooked. Finally, I was
able to catch a premiere screening of the film, to my advantage, and IT
WAS GREAT.

So let's start talking about the film, not necessarily the trailers.
Who are we kidding, at first when we heard that Monsters University was
coming, that a sequel was coming to the classic Monsters Inc, we gave
up hope, saying that no one could make it better than the first one.
But Dan Scanlon challenged that, and the first teaser proved it. And I
think that the movie does it as well- kinda. So, Monsters University
isn't AS good as Monsters Inc, but it does come second in line. It
includes Mike and Sully in an underdog team, but throughout the film,
you can't help and laugh out at the jokes, and smile at the fact that
the sequel is finally out.

Monsters University is GREAT. It has two parts and its all happy and
fun. I, honestly, liked the way they showed the chemistry developing
between Mike and Sully. You can actually feel it, and even though its
animation, it feels real. This one isn't quite sad, like how Inc was.
Inc ended in a sad tune, at the fact that Boo was gone, but this one
ends at the beginning of Inc. I loved the way it ended. The line that
Mike uses just makes you go like, 'YEAH! Thats what I'm talking about!'
Honestly, I'm not gonna say any more, because I don't wanna spoil
anything for anyone.

In the end, Monsters University is great fun. Pixar has done it again,
the director has managed to do it. I don't think that there is gonna be
another part to the franchise, which kinda dulls me, but at the end of
Monsters University it makes you wanna see more, which you will only
get by watching Inc, since its the continuation. Go watch Monsters
University, with anyone to be honest. I guarantee you an extremely fun
ride that these two will give you.

MONSTERS UNIVERSITY- 9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Monsters, Inc. was the first Pixar movie where I saw their genius. Such
an incredible mix of themes and emotions. From the basic premise of
"humanizing" monsters to the tiny details in Boo's behavior that I did
not notice until I had a daughter of my own, it was beautiful and
original.

My top Pixar movies are (in no particular order) Finding Nemo,
Monsters, Inc., Wall-E and The Incredibles. These are movies that
actually mean something to me.

Monsters University is definitely better than Cars 2 and Brave, but I
did not find that "magic ingredient" in it. If anything, it was
formulaic - the same old story retold for the millionth time.

It was certainly nice to see Sully and Mike again and see how they
became friends, but the story was rather shallow with little character
development (I would have loved to see Randall's evolution for
example).
<|_=00=_|>
Pixar is the source of some of the most deep, thoughtful and meaningful
CG films and have created a great name for themselves. Personally i
love most of their films. I almost joined the naysayers prior to this
films release before reminding myself that Pixar has never really let
ME down. And as expected excellence reigned supreme. This is in my
opinion a really good film. Perhaps not at the level of Up and Wall-E,
but it is certainly not bad either.

Animation: A+ The animation is fantastic, then again what else can be
expected from Pixar. Top quality CG that is detailed and yet so
brilliantly original. Sully and Mike look fantastic as do all the other
characters. And if you see the detail of the university, Mike's room
and many other portions such as that in the human world, you will be
flabbergasted by how amazing it looks. The cuteness of the characters
is an added bonus. Pixar is one of those rare studios that pay the
greatest attention to surroundings as well as every other aspect,
making you want to take notice of everything from posters in the dorm,
headlines in newspapers and the sheer workmanship of the great
environments whether they are the university, the living room, the
bedroom or any other setting. 

Story: B+. OK i agree there were parts that had resemblance to Revenge
of the Nerds and Harry Potter and the Goblet of fire and it got quite
to close to situations in college movies of years past. Though the
originality of the scare games and what they signify to Mike is really
quite sweet and pretty original if you think about it. I like the
youthful characters of Mike and Sully but the change in personality is
way too drastic when comparing to how they turn out in Monsters Inc.
Also they at some points feel like characters from similar movies and
this tends to make the film feel tired. So it is best not to make
comparisons if you want to have a good time. 

You don't get your usual ending and the pretty true-to-life messages
elevate it from being just ordinary. The reality of their situation and
the hard life lessons that are thrust upon them give a picture of the
pitfalls life gives us in real life and the effect it has on character.
These are just some of the major, resounding themes. And yet even
through it the positivity and depth still resonates. You will no doubt
smile all through and have several genuine laugh out loud moments that
add to this pretty great emotional mix. 

Yes a college comedy does not need to be PG or R rated to be funny and
this one succeeds in triumphing over other college movies. And as
someone who understands and has been through what Mike's character
faces in this movie, that added extra resonance and heart. A twist on
the similar films, heart(as with all Pixar), depth, resounding mature
themes, life as we know it, witty humor and smiles galore, what more
could you ask for? There are some minor continuity errors between the
prequel and the original but those are minor and the story more than
makes up for it. All in all a good effort. Monsters Inc is a great
film, and one of the absolute best from Pixar. Monsters U may not be at
its level but it nevertheless a very good film. 

Music: A. The score is good, really good. Though i felt so much
similarity between it and the Toy Story trilogy as well as The Princess
and the Frog. Then again they too were works by Randy Newman and those
scores were great too. Perhaps it is just me but i also noted similar
music to Up in this awesome film. 

Overall: A great film that can be seen as a family, a group of friends
or individually. A film that will be appreciated especially by college
student. Pixar once again does a good job.

As a small note, look out for great references to Monsters Inc. It will
add to the smiles.

8/10.
