
An excellent comedy with terrific horror elements, this was a crowd-
pleaser tonight at DIFF, here in Dallas. This is what writing is all
about, old-school, when writing actually mattered, over special
effects. And there are plenty of those. It is rare that I actually
praise an American film, only because we no longer care about writing.
It's all about star power without chemistry or talent behind the
scenes, just what might make a buck. And, clearly, even clear results
do not stop "the machine" from producing utter crud. Relativity Media
has bought this gem, but apparently has refused to market it ala Bounty
Hunter. This is such a funny film that fits into Bromance, Comedy,
Horror, maybe even Indie. Did I mention there's chemistry? Talent? Yup.
All there. So, get on it, Relativity! This could be incredibly
profitable. Wish my blog had more power to get the word out there. Hope
this does the trick.
<|_=00=_|>
So I was lucky enough to get to see this as my first movie at my first
festival ever, the Dallas International Film Festival(DIFF) Honestly,
this movie was a genius comedy, parodying classic horror to levels that
could be considered even better then the likes of Shaun of the Dead.

Truly it is a perfect Indie movie, and the fact that it is only on the
festival circuit is a shame. It has the celebrity power of Alan Tudyk
and Tyler Labine leading the film in a comic tour de force as well as
quite a few lesser known young actors acting opposite. Also, the
direction of the new, but highly committed director Eli Craig shines as
he directs the film he co-wrote and has been trying to get made for 4
years, and that love of the material shines.

The humor and jokes just play beautifully with how the characters are
made and the deaths always pay off. I was lucky enough to get a Q & A
with Craig as well as meet with him afterwords and gain further insight
into this movie that I already very much loved. He stated how some of
he always saw this film as a comedy, not a horror film or even a parody
of horror films, and as such one thing the big studios that wouldn't
produce it had a problem with was the humor in the deaths. The fact
however is that the way they are produced in the scenes and how the
actors react just make each scene perfect.

In truth, this film fully deserves a nationwide release. It will likely
still gain this Cult Classic level with that as it fits into the mold
perfectly just as the likes of Shaun of the Dead did. It would be a
shame for this film to end up like Boondock Saints and having to rely
on DVD to get around and known as it is just what the movie industry
needs.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watched this movie at the International Film Festival and it is
AMAZING!!! Think a cross between "Shaun of the Dead" and "Wrong Turn"!
The acting is excellent, the story is awesome, the special f/x are
spectacular, everything about this movie is just Awesome!!! This movie
is almost more of a comedy with some horror in it rather than a scary
horror movie. I guarantee you will rolling on the floor laughing during
this movie. Although it may be a "small" independent movie, there is
nothing about this movie to hint that it wasn't a huge multi-million
dollar blockbuster. It was shot using the RED camera at 4K (that is a
resolution of 4096Ã—2160!!!), so the video and audio quality are superb.
This is a must see, but it needs everybody's help to get distribution
or else no one will be able to see it!!! So tell everyone about this
movie and demand that it gets released!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the trailer to this film online and it seemed like a funny - yet
unsustainable premise. I went to see it with friends anyway and I can't
remember laughing so hard at a film in years. This movie takes a
promising premise and knocks it out of the park. The cast is superb in
this send-up of the psycho in the woods genre and the writing and
direction take what I feared was an unsustainable premise and they give
it surprising energy and humor. This is not Scary Movie crap. This is
inventive and fresh and it has a beautiful heart. Tyler Labine and Alan
Tudyk are the "Hillbillies" in this hilarious tale of prejudice and
paranoia and they deliver performances that are grounded and authentic.
Tucker and Dale never become plodding stereotypes of ignorant rednecks.
They are portrayed with great wit and dignity and the actors never
overreach or retreat into the safety and insecurity of broad camp. The
cast trusts the writing and the director and it pays off. The script by
Morgan Jurgenson and director Eli Craig is tight, smart and has a
wonderful heart. These qualities are given life by an above average
cast that includes the lovely Katrina Bowden from NBC's 30 Rock. An
especially guilty pleasure is the character of Chad, brilliantly played
by Jesse Moss who channels some alternate universe version of a
sociopathic Tom Cruise as the lead frat-boy. Eli Craig really guided
home a winner with this film. The movie sets a course at the beginning
and you know where you're headed in the first five minutes-- but
Craig's the captain of the ship and this journey is filled with
surprises and wonderfully subtle moments that give the film a fun
trajectory and a brisk pace. You breezily travel through a fantastic,
hilarious and utterly sublime entertainment. Bravo!
<|_=00=_|>
I did not have many expectations when I sat through this gem of a
movie. This movie takes the horror/comedy genre to new levels. The plot
is fairly simple, Lots of misunderstood situations that take place
between Dale and Tucker and their fix-ur-upper vacation home, and some
overly critical, unstable college kids. Very original script, good
acting (Tucker and Dale are fantastic), and clever direction. How can a
brilliant movie like this not make it to the big screen, yet movies
like Season of the witch, Skyline, and Gulliver's Travels do. If you
want to laugh till milk shoots out your nose, watch this movie. Should
be on everyone's must-see list.
<|_=00=_|>
Really entertaining twist on 'teens in the woods' horror flicks. Lots
of laughs and buckets of blood. The actors playing Tucker and Dale are
very compelling and believable. Their charm really makes the film and
you care about their story. 

The movie is basically a farce or a comedy of errors with each error
resulting in a gruesome death. While the manner of the deaths is so
over the top as to be funny, the biggest laughs come from the dialog.
"Tucker and Dale vs Evil" excels at both physical comedy (the chainsaw
scene for example) and verbal (explaining the situation to the police). 

Great movie. 

This film had a tremendous audience reaction at the Seattle
International Film Festival. There's a laugh every minute.
<|_=00=_|>
Anyone who is a fan of the horror genre will want to add this to their
Netflix queue, or better, see it in a theater, because laughter shared
is better than laughing alone. "Tucker & Dale vs. Evil" does for the
Hillbilly slasher/chainsaw massacre genre exactly what "Evil Dead 2"
did for the demon possession genre and what "Shaun Of The Dead" did for
zombies. It takes the well-worn, done-hundreds-of-times conventions of
horror movies and turns them into side-splitting (as opposed to
skull-splitting) humor.

The basic plot is that Tucker (Alan Tudyk, who played Wash in "Firefly"
and "Serenity") and Dale (Tyler Labine, whose work I don't know but
will look into) are two not-completely-bright but sweet Virginia
hillbillies looking forward to a vacation in their "fixer upper" cabin
in the woods, and there kicking back and doing nothing more stimulating
than fishing and drinking beer. To their dismay, a group of spoiled,
Preppie college students decide to camp next door to their cabin. The
students get it into their heads that Tucker & Dale are deranged,
chainsaw-wielding serial killers, and react accordingly.

The movie actually has a lot to say about stereotypes, and how people
project onto others those stereotypes, and their own inner "dark
sides." It's also at times hilariously funny, including an homage to
the "Groovy" scene from "Evil Dead 2" (the corresponding great
one-liner from this film is "Bring it, frat bitch"). There is
definitely blood and gore involved, but...uh...funny blood and gore, if
you're into that sorta thing. This is really a surprisingly good movie.
I am already salivating at the thought of a sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this tonight at SIFF in Seattle. Delightful! Hilarious,
twisted, well-written and funny. 

Didn't hurt that the filmmakers picked two of the funniest guys in the
biz to play Tucker and Dale.

But this isn't just a farce. You end up really caring about the main
characters. 

And the scary character, when that person is revealed, is pretty dang
scary.

Funniest thing I've seen since Zombieland, and I laughed so hard
through Zombieland I thought I was gonna barf.

Do not miss this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I've just seen this movie at the Fantasy Filmfest in Berlin and was 
totally surprised of the high quality. I thought this would be "just 
another" horror comedy you would forget instantly after leaving the 
cinema, but with the fantastic acting of Alan Tudyk and Tyler Labine, 
the funny story and great effects, it works as well with the backwood 
slasher genre as "Shaun of the Dead" did with zombies. The crowd in the 
cinema went totally crazy about this film, they applauded and cheered 
throughout the film and after the first positive reviews by bloggers 
the screenings in Munich for example were sold out in just three hours 
after starting the pre-selling. Totally recommendable, and I really hopes 
this movie makes it to the cinemas worldwide.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film a few days ago for the first time and the copy i saw
wasn't even finished yet (workprint) and i have still rated it a ten
star film, if i had seen a finished version i would probably want to
give it at least a twelve star rating.

I have since watched this film four times now and it just doesn't get
any less funny.

This is the funniest film iv seen since step brothers (a film which i
love) but i laughed a lt more and a hell of a lot harder watching this,
i actually had tears flowing down my face a few times during the movie,
especially at the wood-chipper incident.

Everyone should see this film at least once, you wont regret it.

An absolute gem.
