
It's fair to say that Baywatch was never a great television show. Sure,
it was popular but for reasons very different to it actually being a
quality show. It was trashy as hell and combined slow-motion with a
number of scantily clad supermodels running down the beach in bathing
suits so no surprises at all that it attracted viewers. 

There seems to be a bit of a trend in reviving franchises that were
popular back in the 80s and 90s, and right now, it was the turn of
Baywatch. Quite why is something that I'm still scratching my head
about.

When Mitch Buchanan (Dwayne Johnson) butts heads with new recruit Matt
Brody (Zac Efron) over how to run Baywatch, they uncover a local
criminal plot that threatens the future of the bay. 

As soon as the film started and we see Dwayne Johnson saving someone
before Baywatch rises from the sea in giant letters behind him, I
immediately thought this was going to be exactly what a Baywatch film
should be if it was to be successful. A self aware comedy made as a
parody of the show, in the same way that made the Jump Street films
such a critical and financial success.

We get flashes of that formula however, for the most part, Baywatch is
just an awful film. Painfully unfunny and not one memorable action
sequence means it utterly fails as the action comedy it set out to be,
and with a runtime of two hours it becomes one hell of a slog to sit
through. 

I tried to enjoy it and take it for what it is but the problem is I
just can't do that when there seems to be no effort into making the
film funny, particularly when watching a comedy. Literally every other
joke is a dick joke, including an overly long joke about one of the new
recruits getting their dick stuck in a deck chair. I knew it was going
to be silly and I didn't have high expectations at all but sadly they
weren't even met.

Coming to the performances, Baywatch is absolutely lifeless. Even
Dwayne Johnson or Zac Efron, who has shown good comedic timing before,
can't save this from becoming the absolute car wreck that it is.
Alexandra Daddario, Kelly Rohrbach and Ilfenesh Hadera are sure nice to
look at but the film fails them totally in giving them anything
interesting to do, Daddario in particular who is actually quite a
talented actress. Then there is Jon Bass who delivers an irritant of a
performance as he hopelessly lusts after Rohrbach's CJ Parker. I felt
embarrassed for them as they had to perform such a terrible script.

I won't even waste time in talking about the pathetic cameo that David
Hasselhoff makes in the film. All I will say is what a waste of a cameo
that had much better potential if they'd actually stopped to think
about it. 

So there you have it, Baywatch is an awful film that fails as both an
action and a comedy. It's already one of the worst films I've seen this
year and I won't be surprised if it's still up there come the year's
end.
<|_=00=_|>
The humor was sophomoric.. I can't believe some of the lines being
delivered by the actors. I guess if you're getting paid millions you'll
concede to saying anything. 

Could have been done so much better. Lazy writing. Lazy plot.. but I
guess some audiences will fall for this. They will serve a certain
demographic.. unfortunately it's not mine.
<|_=00=_|>
A little over 20 years ago, the world was introduced to Baywatch the TV
show. This was an awesome show for any pre-pubescent boy or middle aged
pervert who liked to watch Pamela Anderson run in slow-mo. Much like
the TV show, the film is all brawn and beauty and doesn't have a brain
cell to its name. Starring Zac Efron, Alexandra Daddario and Dwayne
Johnson, the cast can't even save this atrocious excuse for a film. It
is far from the comedic romp that was promised in the trailers. The
film takes itself seriously and then other times it knows it is a
parody. The only problem is, the filmmakers and writers can't decide on
a tone. This really killed the film in more ways than one. Those who
are expecting another Neighbors will be sorely disappointed and those
of you wanting to see Dwayne Johnson kick some ass, you get to see that
a little bit but there is much MUCH more to this film that could have
been. I normally would go into a longer review and really talk about
the film itself but I stopped myself short of this because any longer
than this and it would simply be a waste of time, much like this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Fun fact: The original TV show "Baywatch" was cancelled after only one
season. True story. Ratings for NBC's skin-tastic lifeguards-save-L.A.
action-drama placed it in 73rd place out of 103 shows for the 1989-1990
television season and its studio (GTG) went out of business. But, as
Norm McDonald used to remind us from the desk of SNL's Weekend Update,
"Germans LOVE David Hasselhoff." (And people in lots of other countries
do too!) Keeping the show from becoming a footnote in TV history,
series star David Hasselhoff brought it to first-run syndication, where
it ran from 1991-1999. Having become an international sensation, it
then continued in a new setting, with a mostly new cast and under a new
name, "Baywatch Hawaii", for two more seasons. Along the way, the show
became a major part of the careers of Hasselhoff, Pamela Anderson,
Alexandra Paul, Yasmine Bleeth, Carmen Electra, Brooke Burns, Parker
Stevenson and many others. Given the show's small screen stamina and
enduring popularity, it seems natural that the TV show "Baywatch" would
eventually become the movie "Baywatch" (R, 1:56), much like "CHiPs"
earlier in 2017. Unfortunately, much like "CHiPs", the big screen
"Baywatch" sucks.

On a Florida beach, Lt. Mitch Buchannon (Dwayne Johnson) leads a group
of lifeguards that he calls "the elite of the elite". Mitch himself has
over 500 water rescues under his trunks, while teammates Stephanie
Holden (Ilfenesh Hadera) and C.J. Parker (Kelly Rohrbach) are similarly
brave and skilled. In order to expand their team, Mitch and company
hold try-outs for an additional three lifeguard slots. The new trainees
end up being: the beautiful and brainy Summer Quinn (Alexandra
Daddario), an awkward, out-of-shape but hard-charging nerd named Ronnie
(Jon Bass) and Matt Brody (Zac Efron), a cocky, selfish 2-time Olympic
gold medalist in swimming, who has since become persona non grata in
the swimming world  and in society. (His new job somehow counts as
community service for unspecified legal trouble.) As Ronnie harbors a
not-so-secret crush on C.J., and Brody flirts with Summer, training
commences. Brody has to learn what it is to be a real team player and
that there is more to being a lifeguard than just being able to swim
fast. Meanwhile, a local police officer (Yahya Abdul-Mateen II),
Mitch's supervisor (Rob Huebel), and even Brody, want Mitch to learn
that he is a lifeguard  NOT a cop.

The reason that Mitch and the other lifeguards feel the need to act
like cops is found in the person of Victoria Leeds (Priyanka Chopra
from TV's "Quantico"). She's the new owner of a bayside resort called
The Huntley Club and it looks like she's up to no good. We hear her
accused of running drugs and she doesn't deny it. We see her colluding
with a city councilman (Oscar Nuñez) on some real estate deal and see
bribes him with an expensive watch. We understand that Mitch doesn't
trust her and she invites him to a party. At this "meet the neighbors"
gathering, Mitch and company do their best to dig up some dirt to back
up their suspicions, but Leeds is a wily woman and proof is harder to
find than body fat on Dwayne Johnson or Zac Efron. When packets of a
dangerous designer drug pop up, plus a suspicious fire and a couple of
corpses, naturally it's up to a few lifeguards to solve the mystery,
right? That's what the Baywatch babes and boys think anyway. And that's
just part of what's wrong here.

"Baywatch" is mostly ridiculous and unfunny. What passes for character
development are back stories which raise more questions than they
answer. What passes for acting are one-dimensional characterizations
which aren't believable or even sensical. And what passes for humor
basically falls into one of three categories: references to the areas
of the human body usually covered by swim suits, vomit jokes and seeing
how many pop culture references Mitch can come up with to insult young
pretty boy Brody (although some were funny)  and the best gags are all
in the theatrical trailers. The screenplay, by writing partners Damian
Shannon and Mark Swift, puts the characters in situations which are
more insulting to the intelligence of the average Movie Fan than they
are humorous. Seth Gordon's direction is too weak to make sense of it
all or to give the audience more than a few chuckles along the way.

The acting is across-the-board bad, but the worst of the worst is a tie
between Bass, for simply doing a 2-hour Josh Gad impression, and
Chopra, for showing nowhere near the gravitas or menace necessary to be
an effective villain with a (dis)honorable mention to the usually
entertaining Johnson, who ends up in his worst role since 2013's "Pain
& Gain". For a few amusing moments and for poking self-aware fun at its
source material, the film scores minor points, but it basically can't
decide whether it wants to be a comedy, a parody or a drama and it
doesn't do any of those very well. (But don't gloat Dax Shepherd.
"CHiPs" made most of the same mistakes.) "Baywatch" would be better
titled "No Way Watch". This movie is as lame as that pun I just made.
In a mid-credits scene, Johnson talks sequel with a cast member from
the original TV show. Don't hold your breath, Dwayne. Consider your
movie fortunate to get out of this review with a "D+".
<|_=00=_|>
Baywatch is super cheesy, low brow, campy, ridiculous, etc, etc.....but
you know what? That's enjoyable sometimes! You don't knowingly buy a
ticket to a movie like this and then go write a review afterwards
complaining about plot, teenage boy humour, and character development.
hahaha. I had low expectations, shut my brain off at the door, and
enjoyed this movie for what it was.
<|_=00=_|>
Comedy is dead. Baywatch has made me lose any hope of any movie being
funny in 2017. If this is the best Hollywood can do, they are done for.

There is no inspiration or creativity to be found. The idea is: Hey, 21
Jump Street was hilarious! What would happen if we did the same thing
for (fill in the blank)? 21 Jump Street was one of the rare occasions
where a TV-adaptation film was worth seeing, and ultimately, ended up
being better than the source material. What was Baywatch originally? A
horrible TV show in the 80's. It existed only to show off the
glistening, bouncing, beautiful bodies of it's lead actors David
Hasselhoff and Pamela Anderson. There isn't much material to make a
film off of. That is, unless, the filmmakers went nuts and turned the
source material into an absurd farce.. lets say of the Will Ferrel
variety. Instead, Baywatch 2017 is a lopsided, painfully stupid,
unbearably dull, cringe- inducing insult to the intelligence of the
filmgoing public. Pain and Gain had more nuanced humor. Mike and Dave
was the funnier Zac Efron movie. Let that sink it.

I might have said, "This makes no sense", out-loud in the movie theater
about 10 times. They made a film completely out of action-comedy
clichés, strung together incoherently. The big laugh set- pieces are
desperate. One joke in particular is a genital mishap lifted directly
from "There's Something About Mary". That joke is 20-years old. If
you're going to be a thief, at least steal something timely. The cast
might be the only positive thing I can note. They are all really
charming, and sexy to look at, but at what cost?

I couldn't think of a worse film to be slated for Memorial Day weekend.
This is going to be a long, hot summer of Hollywood failures.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot believe I spent money to watch this movie in the cinema, this
movie was awful. I went into the cinema expecting a comedy, but it
turned out I actually went in to see an emotional character development
journey with Zac Efron. It honestly was not worth it, all the funny
parts of the movie can be seen in full in the trailers. I would rate
the trailers 10/10 as they actually fooled me into thinking that this
would be a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
For the first time I actually walked out of a film before the end. 

The humour is infantile, so stupid I was embarrassed for the actors. 

This film is just beautiful bodies wandering about hoping it makes an
entertaining film. 

Clear proof you can't make a silk purse, no matter how many beautiful
people you use, out of a rotting, festering, maggot ridden pigs ear
written by talentless chimps. 

Complete waste of time and money 0.5/10

Suspicious of the many 10/10 ratings, given by first time reviewers/new
reviewers. Confirms suspicions Studios try to promote their films with
bogus reviews.
<|_=00=_|>
When will Hollywood comedies of this decade hire writers who at least
have a clue of comedy? Why hire immature morons who think the idea of a
dick is funny and can replace a good script. Hollywood seems to be
obsessed with male nudity and full frontal at that in this decade.If it
is in the right context it could be funny but haven't seen one this
decade. What happened to the writers of 40-year old virgin,knocked
up,etc? This movie is a pathetic excuse for a comedy and is
particularly sad since there was an opening for a new franchise which
has been firmly grounded. Avoid if you are lucky and watch 'Central
Intelligence' if you want to see the Rock in a good comedy!
<|_=00=_|>
It seems like the studio is trying to inflate the reviews, and now I
know why. The movie is not funny at all, don't waste your money. The
worst part was when Efron touches a dead man's genitals, disturbing
uncomfortable and unnecessary. 

The only good thing is the cameo of Pamela Anderson and David
Hasselhoff, but just look for the clips on youtube and you will be
totally fine.
