
While there have been plenty of valid comparisons made between this
film and last year's sci-fi hit District - 9 (due solely to the fact
that the two films share an admittedly similar global concept; that of
aliens landing and being contained within a restricted zone as a forced
but entertaining allegory for racial disharmony. There the zone was in
central South Africa and here it is the northernmost section of Mexico,
the borderlands.) I think the media have missed the much more obvious
filmic connections. To my mind this film is in fact less like a
geographical reboot of D-9 and more like an art-house Cloverfield or
perhaps a blockbuster Stalker (Andrei Tarkovsky's epically sparse
sci-fi classic). While the concept and metaphor certainly match that of
District  9 the closest the execution sways it further towards a
combination of the latter two examples.

Instead of attempting to tell the story of a fictional universe using a
number of cipher characters like D-9, this film instead tells the story
of its two leads by way of its alien infestation. The titular monsters
certainly are an integral force in crafting and driving the films
narrative but they are not its real focus, this is where the two films
differ. Instead we are made to follow American investigate journalist
Colbert who is tasked by his employer to find and then accompany his
daughter through the infected zone and into the United States before
the beginning of the creature's active season.

It's a sparse plot and one that leads to a lot less action than you
would expect, but it does work as the spinal centre of the film.
Instead of confronting the creatures at every turn, discovering their
origin, their weakness, their queen and then eventually using their
knowledge to develop a dues ex machina and save the day like the big
damn heroes of every similar film, these two simply exist in the
universe like we do ours; as everyday citizens living their everyday
lives. That's not to say though that the film is in any way banal; in
fact their journey through the zone allows for a lot of stunning shots,
shocking stories and silent terror, it's just that these occur in a
different tense then we are used to. We are, like the protagonist
Colbert, journalists in this world; we follow in the wake of the story,
catching occasional glimpses of it from afar but mainly focusing on who
and what it leaves behind.

The monsters, their destruction and the alternate world that they
destroy are all filtered through the protagonists before they reach us
upon the screen. It is their reactions to the events that elicit
responses in us and their responses that in turn become our emotions.
It is essential that the two leads be well crafted in order for this
method to work. Thankfully then, they are; Hitting that perfect ratio
of realism, stereotype, flaw and likability. They are the kind of
characters that you would happily follow within the comparatively banal
confines of a drama and so here, in this realm of heightened stakes,
they become doubly interesting. The real surprise of the film for me
was just how enjoyable, and oftentimes moving, it was to take this trip
with the leads; to the point that by the time the ending rolled around
I almost echoed their calls of 'I don't want to go home'. That dreaded
disillusionment, the return to drudgery after a distinctly powerful
event is something I can really understand but it is something uncommon
to see in cinemas. Edwards isn't the only person to be thanked for this
though; while his writing is great it's the two lead performances that
are really essential and I think these two will be ones too watch in
the future.

While I've made it quite clear that personally I preferred the human
side of the story - that I could take or leave the monsters in
comparison  i know there are many others around here who will not feel
the same, others that are in it for the monsters (Spaulds certainly
comes to mind). While I wouldn't advise taking that particular approach
with this particular film, I don't think any of you creature features
that do will be disappointed with what you see  and yes, you do see.
The creatures are as well designed and animated as the characters. They
feel totally alien to this world yet retain a certain sense of
plausibility, as if they could feasibly belong to some other. Their
power is also very well handled, being threatening enough in every
situation but invincible in none. There is then a consistency to them
that doesn't exist in a lot of other creatures, which sometimes feel
like they are acting in accordance with the plot rather than their own
rules or reality. While this may get some of you salivating I have to
say again that well designed or no these creatures are little more than
an external force, they exist off screen much more than on.

It is then, an ironically titled film I guess because the Monsters of
the title are anything but central. I think the real test should be
whether or not you would go and see this film were it called 'Humans'.
Those that do, more specifically those that make their way all the way
through to the final act, will be in for a treat as the film has a
handful of utterly sublime moments. The ending itself was a little
abrupt but I think it's pretty clever, probably warranting a second
watch. Definitely warranting a first watch.
<|_=00=_|>
The first 3 reviews said it all. Amazing movie for a $15k budget.
Amazing shots and scenery, good plot line, great acting from leads.
Decent monsters and action, when it occurs. I'm starting to think it's
the soundtrack that makes a movie seem "big". This movie's eerie
sounds, and tension building strings draw you in, like a blockbuster.
Can't believe this guy wrote, directed, edited and did the efx. A++++

And ignore the whiny babies crying about this and that. They'd rather
watch blood pour out of a corpse than a decent piece of acting. As long
as you don't expect another Cloverfield, you should be surprised by a
unique cinematic experience. ;)
<|_=00=_|>
OK this gets a strong 7.9 on my trait average scale that I just made
up, but on an insanely low budget of something around $15,000 dollars,
this film deserves everyone's attention. The plot: NASA accidentally
solves border security with lightbright octopi from space. In the first
3 minutes of this film we learn that a probe carrying samples of alien
life has broken up in reentry showering larges swaths of Mexico with
debris that eventually manifests in giant octopus monsters. The
militaries of the US and Mexico do their best to contain the "infected
zone" and kill the monsters with heavy firepower. The story starts
about 6 years after the monsters show up and the battle to keep the
aliens at bay rages on. We're introduced to a photographer hoping to
snap a picture of one of the monsters up close who gets roped into
escorting the boss's daughter to the coast and back to her Fiancé'
after she's injured in a monster attack. The pair, played by real-life
couple Scoot McNairy and Whitney Able, are stuck south of the infected
area on an increasingly lawless overland trip through central America
trying to find a way back to the safety of the States. The
post-apocalyptic feel of the areas destroyed by the monsters make for
some of the most memorable shots in this film. The
Director/Writer/DP/VFX Artist, Gareth Edwards has shot a really
beautiful film that revels in guerrilla style shooting and constantly
shifting focuses helping push the subtle urgency of the travelers'
situation. The monster effects are believable and Edwards deserves due
credit for some fun visuals but he successfully directs our attention
to the human story rather than letting the monsters be the main
character. This is not a traditional action sci-fi movie though there
are certainly heart-pounding, jaw-dropping scenes of mayhem and
military firepower; it's a character driven story set in a sci-fi
disaster monster movie and it works. Don't go in thinking it is
District 9 or Cloverfield. It was certainly not what I expected, but
that turned out to be a good thing in this case. 

Facts from the Director Q&A: -Filmed on a Sony EX3 with a Nikon 50 MM
Lens -Used almost exclusively natural light except for a couple tiny
LED lights for when it was pitch black -Effects were done in Adobe CS4,
editing in Premiere -The majority of filming was shot with just a sound
guy the director and the 2 main characters -Look for this to come out
in Late October via Magnolia Pictures in the US and November in the UK
<|_=00=_|>
I first heard about this movie in a radio interview, so I was aware
that it was very low budget. But lately "sci fi" movies have been all
about escalating action to the point of absurdity. Classic sci fi is
about people reacting to new/mysterious/dangerous situations. This
movie has that, with interesting protagonists. It has echos of Sin
Nobre and El Norte, and yes, the context of "alien substitution" echoes
District 9. But it's not a re-make, and it's consistently entertaining,
with a straight-ahead narrative. There are only a few moments where a
shock reaction is telegraphed. A big studio would have made this story
into an effects extravaganza. But in my opinion it's more effective
showing limited interaction with the aliens.

If you can handle real sci fi -- movies without the excesses of
Transformers or 2012 -- this sci fi will satisfy.
<|_=00=_|>
After discovering a galaxy with possible life, NASA sends a probe to
investigate, only to have it break up over Mexico on its return. Six
years later and half of Mexico is now an infected zone, with huge squid
like Aliens roaming the land. America's border is enforced by gigantic
walls and the USAF combined with the Mexican military conduct regular
bombing raids, and search and destroy missions. In this arena, is
Andrew Kaulder (Scoot McNairy), a rather world weary and cynical
photographer, there to hopefully get some pics. 

However, his Boss's (as in the company's owner) daughter Samantha
Wynden (Whitney Able) is stuck in Mexico, and Daddy Warbucks entrusts
Andrew to bring his Daughter back safe and sound. But, things go from
bad to worse for our duo, as first the train can't go further due to
the tracks being destroyed. And the ferry to the US costs $5000. After
paying this exorbitant fee, Andrew unwisely decides to go on a tequila
binge, hook up with some cheap floozy, and promptly gets robbed of his
and Samantha's passports, and can't get the ferry. Now the only way to
get to the US border is to be escorted (this time for $10,000) via
armed guard through the alien infested Infected Zone...

Let's face it, this premise sounds freakin' awesome, doesn't it? So,
what went wrong here? 

Well, the pacing, for a start. Basically, nothing much happens in this
film. It's well made, nicely shot and has a surprisingly haunting
atmosphere, and credit where it's due to director Gareth Edwards for
achieving such a look and tone on a shoestring budget of $15,000, but
is overall pretty uneventful and kinda dull. My biggest gripe with this
film is that it's misleading. 

For a film called "Monsters" there's precious little in the way of
monsters in it, or suspense, or scares. When they do appear, they're
never fully visible, or else the lighting is far too dark, to see
what's happening properly, or else is all shaky cam. I'm aware of the
budget, and realize the reasons, but it kills suspense.

It has a great opening scene, shot in night vision, fly on the wall
style, of a group of soldiers jawing while on patrol, immediately
drawing comparisons with Iraq and putting an urgent contemporary feel
on things, as if it was happening, right now.

But then things just go downhill, from there, with shots of the desert,
mainly used as padding and nothing else really happening.

Anyone looking for a fast paced action style film, or a film that
actually has many monsters in it, along with suspense and thrills,
should seriously avoid this, and I really cannot emphasize this enough.

Fans of offbeat horror might like it, but I personally found it
ambitious, well made, but ultimately dull and boring, which for a film
with such a title and premise, is disappointing, to say the very least.

A generous 5/10, for being well made technically, especially
considering its budget, but ultimately a very disappointing and tedious
bore, and a film which leaves one feeling distinctly short changed.
<|_=00=_|>
This was the film I was most looking forward to during my one day 
excursion to Frightfest and it was everything I hoped for. Monsters 
takes place several years after a NASA space probe that has collected 
alien micro-organisms has crashed in Mexico, turning much of the 
country into a walled in no-go zone. New life forms have developed 
there, among them gigantic, tentacled creatures who have devastated 
much of the country. A photo journalist who reports on the crisis takes 
on the job to get the newspaper publishers daughter back to the US. 
After their tickets for the last ferry out get stolen, they have to 
make their way across the "infected" zone. 

Many people will be expecting a Distric 9 or Cloverfield style sci-fi 
action film from the trailer, but this is more like Before Sunrise 
meets Godzilla, with the emphasis on the love story. The British 
director gave a Q&A after the screening and he said he was aiming to 
make an offbeat romantic indie film like Lost in Translation against an 
unusual backdrop. It's certainly an interesting genre-hybrid and I 
don't think I've ever seen anything quite like it. This was shot on a 
tiny budget by its director, who then did all the effects by himself at 
on a computer, and it looks like a gazillion bucks Hollywood movie. 
With effects technology having become so accessible, this maybe where 
the future of genre films lies as Hollywood blockbusters become ever 
more interchangeable. Monsters is a powerfully atmospheric, beautiful 
looking film with great locations and the effects are excellent, but 
this is primarily a road move and a love story. There isn't an awful 
lot of monster action in the film and only a couple of scenes that 
actively involve the creatures, though they feel ever present via the 
devastation visible everywhere. I could sense some of the more hardcore 
horror fans who were cheering during the gory I Spit On Your Grave 
remake that went before, getting restless. 

The writing is pretty good, if not quite in the same league as top 
indie film romances it aims for. The films only failing is that for an 
indie romance, the characters are never quite as well explored as they 
would be in a Lost in Translation or Before Sunrise. The two main 
characters could have been a little more memorable, though the two lead 
actors are likable enough and have the chemistry required that made me 
want them to get together (the director revealed he cast two actors who 
are a couple for real). 

In the end the thing that makes the film stand out is the fact that it 
takes such an unusual approach to the giant monster movie genre. By 
treating its genre trappings in an low key, almost subordinate way, it 
feels very real. The giant squid like monsters are very impressive in 
the few scenes where they do make an appearance and the characters and 
story were involving enough to draw me in. 

In the way it foregrounds the characters it's a genuinely unusual 
special effects film the, type Hollywood used to make in the 70s, when 
Close Encounters was as a much a film about a wrenching marriage break 
down as it was about UFOs. It has stayed with me unlike few films I've 
seen this year and I can't wait to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
Amazing movie. A real adventure film, the way they don't make them
anymore. Sometimes it felt like a travel documentary, very real, very
exciting and realistic. The actors are very good, better than most high
paid stars of today. And the girl are beautiful in a very natural way.
She's also a wonderful actress.

I'ts important to understand that this isn't your ordinary monster
movie. You very seldom see them at all, but you feel their presence.
Each step of the way, when we follow the couple on their way back from
Mexico to USA, we are with them. We are more like travel companions on
a journey than viewers of a movie.

The CGI may lack a bit, but that's not important. Considering the
extremely low budget, it's just amazing that this movie exist. The
production values are still better than with most high profile movies.
Do yourself a favor and See this movie for what it is. Go on a journey
into a world that is realistic, exciting - and maybe, just maybe,
possible.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this last night, and have to say, loved it. I can understand
teen boys being offended by the lack of action. And I think a lot of
people seeing this film might start with preconceptions about what a
'monster' movie should be, which won't do this film any favours. It's a
road movie, a slow building drama, a mystery. I actually liked that the
two leads were attractive and likable company, without acting in
predictable Hollywood ways (you know, where they are unsure about each
other, then have a huge fight and yell that they hate each other, then
immediately jump into great sex  I am pretty sure in real life only
couples who've been together for a while have good angry sex, surely?,
I could be wrong, anyway). But it was the mystery of the intriguing
monsters that got me, and the absolutely perfect resolution. Unlike the
current 3D CGI megafilms, where everything is boringly and loudly in
your face, this film required the audience to join in and use some of
it's own imagination, a bit like Alien you could say (without the blood
& guts). And, that last scene was so great  easily one of the most
perfectly orchestrated scenes I've seen in any film in the last year or
two, and to a large degree because it had the sense to not knock the
message over your head. And despite it's lack of gigantic special
effects, I really think this is a film to see in a cinema, not on TV 
to get in the mood, to wonder what's over the next hill, to peer into
the darkness to see, wait, is that a tentacle? Like the main
characters, the audience needs to be paying attention. Okay, so not a
perfect masterpiece from beginning to end, but right now I can't think
of many monster movie monsters I've loved in the last decade as much as
these octo-spidey-monster thingies. Beautiful! (and I'm pretty p*ssed
that a piece of shoddy Hollywood crap like Skyline is showing in 160+
cinemas here in Australia, while this little beauty is only on at a
few)
<|_=00=_|>
Not exactly what I expected, but a movie well worth watching
nonetheless. It's a story about a journey through zone infected by
alien organisms. Where it lacks action, it makes up by amazing scenery.
As you follow the two main characters, you see the fight between humans
and the aliens from their point of view  on the TV, in the radio, in
the scenery all around them. Most of the destruction happened before
the main protagonist get on the scene, which really draws you in and it
gives you this eerie feeling it just might be real. While you don't see
much of the monsters, you can always feel their presence. At the end
you can only feel awe, respect and humility towards the huge
octopus-like aliens. 

The actors are good and you can relate to them. Whitney Able is
stunning girl in a very natural way and she deserves to be cast in lead
roles more often.

For such a low-budget movie it's amazing how well it came out. I give
it solid 8/10 and hope we will see more movies like this.
<|_=00=_|>
I understand this is a very low budget movie. If so, it is another
example of the marvels which can be worked with a small budget by
original and creative people.

Despite the sci-fi trimmings - ostensibly similar to the recent, but
vastly inferior, tentacled alien invasion movie Skyline - this is
essentially a two-hander road movie with a touch of growing romance
thrown in. The hand-held camera adds verite but doesn't jitter so
constantly as to stimulate nausea. There are some gorgeous visuals -
both spectacular natural shots and also effects shots such as The Wall.
And the two unknowns who we accompany on their journey - the gorgeous
Whitney Able and the not so gorgeous Scoot McNairy - are both very
good.

But most credit must go to Gareth Edwards, the creative force behind
this film.
