
OK the effects were great, the action was impressive....I mean
visually, the movie was pretty good.

And I'll even say the acting was done well. The characters were
charming, the pace was slow at times, but not dead boring slow.

My only problem was, how many times are we going to see the exact same
story. I mean this was your typical teen drama....new kid..shady
past... weird and wants to stay to himself, but there's always some
cute chick who he risks everything for.

There's always bullies who hate that he's got the attention of the cute
chick, so they always end up having a conflict. I mean 90% of this
movie was your typical high school drama teen movie. And the
"discovering" of his powers was like the alien version of spiderman.

I mean it's the same ole same ole....you explore and try to harness
your new powers beating up bullies and jumping around where no one can
see you until a super strong villain pops up you have to fight in the
climax.

I mean as far as an overall success the positive things I mentioned
originally (great effects, charming characters, impressive action) can
for the most part salvage the movie. But if you're a fan of the genre,
don't expect anything new. 3 1/2 outta 5 stars...
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a bad film. It's just not that great. The story feels a bit
weak and there are so many plot holes it takes away part of the
enjoyment. I also found myself un interested in the characters, apart
from the dog, but who doesn't love a cute dog? It just seemed to be
cliché after cliché after cliché. I have to remind myself I didn't go
to watch shawshank redemption 2 or a William Shakespeare film
adaptation. Instead I watched 90 odd minutes of blah. Good special
effects and action sequences plus the added bonus of eye candy were
just enough to save it. Just.

If you go to see "I am number four" I suggest you leave your brain at
home then sit back and enjoy the pretty lights and moving pictures.
Don't expect much and you might actually enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Do you know that old movie rule that you subconsciously decide whether
you're going to enjoy a film or not within the first ten minutes? Well,
it wasn't true this time, because after the opening sequence, I was
pretty sure I was going to hate "I Am Number Four". Thankfully, I was
in for a pleasant surprise.

It all starts with bad CGI-monsters and some guys in Star Trek make-up
chasing people around in the jungle. We then cut to some jocks doing
tricks on jet skis and some bland blonde girls admiring them - and I
thought this is going to be terrible. Then the story picks up and the
movie gets better from there.

The story involves a couple of characters and mysteries, but is never
too complicated. After the initial jet ski scene, the main character
actually turns out to be played quite charmingly by Alex Pettyfer. He's
supported by his mentor/protector (solid as always: Timothy Olyphant).
Glee's Dianna Agron plays Number Four's love interest. She comes across
very natural, so that the love story that unfolds is actually engaging
instead of vomit-inducing like that of that other movie with the
whining Vampires and the shirtless Werewolves.

Of course, "I Am Number Four" is by no means a great movie. The CGI
sucks in places and the make-up of the bad guys is just awful.
Characters are stereotypical, things fall into place way too
conveniently and one has the feeling that a good junk of the original
novel has just been crammed together to (barely) fit into the running
time of a popcorn movie.

However, I think we can all agree that it would be silly to actually
expect a masterpiece, considering the movie's premise. For what it is,
"I Am Number Four" is an entertaining little fantasy flick for
teenagers and undemanding twenty-somethings. Add to that the fact that
this movie is neither a sequel nor a remake, that it's not based on a
comic book, a TV series, a computer game or toys, and it's enough to
lift "I Am Number Four" heads and shoulders above its genre
competitors.
<|_=00=_|>
In a perfect world, the convoluted mess called I Am Number Four could
have been great. It had all the trappings for success: based off a
semi-popular novel for teens, a fairly accomplished director in D.J.
Caruso, the producing "talent" of Michael Bay, two hot young stars in
Alex Pettyfer and Glee's own Dianna Agron, and an enigmatic, yet
intriguing trailer campaign. So why is it that the final product is one
of the most deeply unsatisfying theatrical experiences I have had in
some time? 

Opening with the death of "Number Three", we jump into the life of John
(Pettyfer), an alien being protected on Earth from a group called the
Mogadorians. As it turns out, the Mogadorians wiped out the population
of John's planet years before, except for nine children with
extraordinary powers. For some reason, they have to be killed in order,
and with three down, John is next in line for extermination. As he goes
on the run with his protector Henri (Timothy Olyphant), they settle
into the small town of Paradise, Ohio. Soon after, John starts gaining
and learning more about his powers. But with a new love (Agron) and his
lust to just be normal thrown into the mix, John may be in more trouble
than he can imagine.

I have never read the source material for I Am Number Four, but I would
hazard a guess that it did a half decent job of explaining what is
going on, and did not just strive to set future sequels in motion. The
film on the other hand, suffers because the sequel seems to be the only
thing in mind outside of special effects. We are thrown right into
John's life, and we only get little nuggets of reason for what is going
on at any given time. We never get full explanations, and are never
even offered the ability to piece it together by ourselves. The film
seems merely content giving us hints, offering little enigmatic moments
to get us thinking. But instead of doing anything with these scenes, it
merely continues trucking along to its eventual ending which promises a
continuation and the hope for some further reasoning for what is
happening. But if the filmmakers do not care about informing the
audience now, why will we care later? 

But this would not be such a slap in the face if we had not already
seen so many films in the past half-decade doing the exact same thing,
attempting to replicate the success of the Harry Potter, Twilight and
The Lord of the Rings franchises. The Golden Compass, Cirque du Freak:
The Vampire's Assistant, The Spiderwick Chronicles, and Percy Jackson &
The Olympians: The Lightning Thief (which this film oddly resembles)
are all examples of studios making films out of young adult books,
specifically to capitalize on the potential for sequels and lengthy
franchise possibilities. They all failed in varying degrees, because
they all suffer from the same thing I Am Number Four suffers from  not
enough plot, too much dependence on a sequel. Had all of these films
even attempted to be able to stand on their own, perhaps they would
have gotten the sequel they seemed to think they deserved. I know Four
is part of a proposed book franchise, as opposed to an already
established book franchise, but it merely skipped the waiting in the
middle for the eventual film.

Should these plot and sequel problems not already be enough, Four
suffers from copying Twilight a little too close (even including the
notable musical cues from current alt-rockers). Sure, there are no
vampires, but the romance between John and Agron's Sarah feels a little
too forced for comfort. Right in the middle of being hunted down to be
systematically wiped out, we are supposed to believe that someone who
has spent their life running, would simply fall in love out of the
blue, and not feel any consequences? We are supposed to believe he does
not know better? Sure he's a teenager and we all did stupid things when
we were that young, but why does the focus of the film seem to hinge on
the chemistry and romance between these two star-crossed lovers? I was
intrigued from the early moments in the film where it started to set
the plot into motion, and the need for John and Henri to keep running
to avoid death. But then it suddenly shifts from a science fiction tale
to a romantic love story, and totally loses anything it has going for
it. A last minute save in the final act of the film where it shifts
back into the realm of sci-fi is not nearly enough to make up for well
over an hour of melodrama and teen angst. It is awkward, silly, and
practically plagiarizes Twilight.

I will say I was interested and intrigued when the film was attempting
to do something with the plot and overarching story, but these moments
are never given the chance to fully develop. The film criminally
underuses Olyphant, the only actor who actually acts in the entire
film, and makes him into an almost useless background character. We
only get glimpses of Teresa Palmer's character throughout the film (the
trailer already gives away any mystery of who she might be), and when
she finally shows up to do something, she merely speaks in overtly
sexual allusions. Pettyfer and Agron both seem to suffer from not
knowing what emphasis to put on their character and when, and relative
newcomer Callan McAuliffe is stuck in the cliché-ridden role as the
know-it-all geek of a best friend.

When it attempts to work, I Am Number Four is quite interesting. I
would have loved more story, and a whole lot less romance. Even what
does work (including the decent special effects) seems to suffer as a
result of all the melodramatic romance.

4/10.

(This review also appeared on http://www.geekspeakmagazine.com).
<|_=00=_|>
This movie isn't the best action film of the year. This movie isn't
another tongue-in-cheek teen movie. Most importantly, this movie isn't
a "wannabe" of the Twilight franchise. This movie is entertainment for
all viewers that delivers a good story, action, and desire to want more
at the end. I was lucky enough to work as an extra in this movie for
about 2 weeks and was able to see how this film came together, piece by
piece. The visual effects truly make the film enjoyable. Seeing it
behind-the-scenes, I couldn't imagine what it would look like. To be
honest, I was pleasantly surprised.

The acting was believable and consistent (unlike previous reviews who
claim the actors lost steam halfway thru the film). Timothy Olyphant is
perhaps the best character in the film, Pettyfer following right after.
The best part about this film: the love story within the plot WAS NOT
painful/annoying to watch (such as Twilight).

This movie is definitely worth seeing in theaters, as the action scenes
truly make the experience. I Am Number Four is a great start to what
could be a fantastic franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
A great movie will leave you yearning for a sequel, and I Am Number
Four certainly does. 

First off, the visuals were astounding. This really goes without
saying, but the final battle in the movie was incredible. 

Another sign of a great movie, my friends and I truly liked the
characters. We actually cared about what happened to them (something
that I can't say about other book-to-movie Harry-Potter-wannabes.) Even
number Six, a bad-ass female with Nightcrawler-like power was lovable!

Finally, the storyline was engaging and easy to understand. Yes, there
were some unexplained portions, but this is only the first movie in a
series. I understood it just fine without having read the book, and
there was no point in the movie where I felt that things were moving
too slowly (nor to quickly, for that matter.)

I would urge you not to take any of the negative reviews written by
middle-aged men to heart - spend the 10 bucks and give this movie a
chance. I promise you that you'll end up enjoying it!
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the NY Times best-selling novel by "Pittacus Lore" (an alias
for the memoir-fabricating James Frey and Jobie Hughes), I Am Four
kicks off the cinematic proceedings with an intense and creepy jungle
chase scene and an intriguing - albeit fairly unoriginal - concept.

The planet Lorien (COUGH krypton COUGH) was destroyed, and nine of its
alien children were sent to earth. Why earth? Who knows. Perhaps
earth's atmosphere is the most similar to Lorien's? A race of 7-foot
tall humanoids called the Mogadorians are hunting down the children one
at a time. Why? Beats me. Because we wouldn't have a story otherwise, I
suppose. All we're really told is "they're a race who chooses to
decimate rather than colonize." So be it.

Anyway, due to some sort of spell the Mogadorians are forced to kill
the nine remaining Lorien kids in the proper order. Who established the
order and how? No idea. Wouldn't you be pretty ticked off if you were
Number One and became aware that you were chosen to be killed first?
Perhaps the numbering system is completely random. Otherwise, that's a
pretty jacked up system. "Hmm, little Billy seems to be a little slow
upstairs, and that lisp sure ain't doin' him any favors. Let's make him
Number One." Regardless, numbers one to three are now dead, so the
story focuses on Number Four.

Number Four's desperate attempts to fit in lead to yet another blown
cover, and he and his guardian Henri must once again relocate - this
time to the small town of Paradise, OH. Following the film's somewhat
promising start, the story takes an ill-advised detour and bogs down in
a teenage romance marsh. It's at this point that Number Four (AKA John
Smith) falls in love, defends a nerd against bullies, and begins to
discover his unique abilities (known as legacies).

This blatant drawing from the well of the Twilight series' formula
might giddy up the hearts of teenage girls, but males with an ounce of
testosterone will grow increasingly restless as they await the arrival
of the action that the film's trailer promised.

That arrival comes in the film's third act in the form of a deus ex
machina known as Number Six (Teresa Palmer) who proceeds to kick a
satisfying amount of rumpage against the backdrop of CGI and
special-effects. The last 20 minutes will most certainly entertain the
majority of audiences, but the drive there should've been smoother and
more evenly-paced.

Dialogue is weak, character development is practically non-existent,
and the underdeveloped backstory creates too many questions that lead
to frustration rather than intrigue. Granted, this is an origin story
that's specifically designed to kick-start a franchise, but a little
more self-containment would have been appreciated.

One of the film's biggest transgressions is the misuse of Timothy
Olyphant as Henri. We're told that he's a Lorien warrior, and as such
you'd expect him to join in the butt-kickery. Unfortunately, he's only
involved in one fight and is inexplicably kidnapped (done off-screen to
mask its implausibility) by a couple of out-of-shape alien conspiracy
theorists. His role is more of a babysitter for Number Four than a
warrior/guardian who dispenses valuable training and wisdom.

The film presents a seed or two of hope that the franchise can improve
with each installment, but will its identity crisis allow it to do so?
Attempting to be all things to all teenagers could backfire if it fails
to create loyalty amongst any one demographic.

Teenage audiences and those who don't consume themselves with the
story's many flaws will be more forgiving than I. Perhaps your
expectations will be exceeded, but there's a good chance you'll be
either underwhelmed or disappointed. Wouldn't you rather risk a dollar
at Redbox than $10 a pop at the theater? Don't say I didn't properly
inform you.
<|_=00=_|>
I was thinking this would be filler for a dull afternoon. Indeed it was
but I was also surprised to find I really enjoyed it. We also had the
pleasure of watching it on iMax so that makes just about anything a
little better. If you want to enjoy the evening then go see this one.
You'll see some good acting and decent new actors. Give it a chance and
I think this might be the next good "series" of movies you'll like. I
say series because they left this one wide open to find numbers 5, and
7-9. I can easily see a whole trilogy or more just waiting for this one
to make enough money to get it going. Although without some decent
advertising they aren't going to get that... :(
<|_=00=_|>
My god! Words cannot reiterate how terrible this movie is. I didn't go
with high expectations. I didn't expect Oscar winning performances or a
witty and sharp script etc. I thought if I could give it a five or a
six out of ten at most I would be satisfied with some great action,
good special effects and reasonable acting, but it didn't even have
that. Seriously the reviewers who have given this higher than a four
have seriously deluded themselves. I'm not a teenager, which this film
is aiming for (but even then it's so badly made even they shouldn't
like this).

Before I critique this film. A brief synopsis from what I can gather.
Teenager John Smith (Alex Pettyfer from Storm Breakers) who is an alien
from another planet Lorien is a fugitive on the run from his enemies
the Mogadarians who have been sent to destroy him after killing three
other kids before him with the same abilities. Changing his identity,
moving from town to town with his guardian Henri (Timothy Olyphant),
John is always the new kid with no ties to his past. In the small Ohio
town he now calls home, John encounters unexpected, life-changing
events-his first love Sarah (Dianna Agron), powerful new abilities and
a connection to the others like number six (Teresa Palmer) who shares
his destiny. 

The first problem of this film is the screenplay which is a horrific
mess. The synopsis I had to cobble together from a family friend who is
a fan of the books (but wasn't of the film). It is very loosely
explained during the movie at different points with huge plot holes. If
these Mogadarians want to destroy earth, why don't they straight away?
Why kill these teenagers who are a part of the legacy? How were the
legacies and Mogadarians created? Why do the Mogadarians want to
destroy earth? I think I heard something about "resources," but what?
Maybe this is explained in the book or subsequent ones, I don't know,
but for someone who hasn't read them, things should have been explained
and more clearly, it's no excuse. Also when John saves Sarah from her
ex-boyfriend and his friends pestering her at the fair, she sees him
using his powers (his hands light up) to deal with the guys, but she
dosen't say anything??? What the heck? Then later she suddenly "finds"
out? This sort of thing just reeks serious laziness on the hand of the
writers, either that or during that scene Sarah went temporarily blind.
I could go on with several other plot holes, but you get the point. The
structure of the film is terribly put together with certain scenes just
feeling so random, without them being linked together. Maybe the fact
the film just suddenly decides to introduce new information in a
convenient "way" like those weird creatures who guard the legacies
(including a dog that turns into the creature) and the others for the
Mogodarian's or whatever. And while we're on the subject of the
Mogodarian's as villains they are ridiculously laughable and not scary
in the slightest. 

All the characters are bland with little back story like we find out
literally nothing about John's past or his parents. With that you just
don't care about them as they are little more than cardboard cut-outs.
Particularly when Henri dies, in one scene with "sad" music. We're
meant to care but the characters are so shallow and boring we just
don't care and the whole pathetic scene just comes across as
sickeningly insincere. Of course the characters being boring also comes
down to terrible performances. Alex Pettyfer is just unbearably plain
and looks and acts bored. He hasn't got the slightest trace of acting
ability (just like in Stormbreakers). None of the cast fare any better.
They are all unconvincing and give some of the worst performances I've
seen in films, even Teresa Palmer who I adored in The Sorcerer's
Apprentice could not save this. She looks great but barely gets enough
screen time to make an impact with little dialogue. I couldn't judge
her acting as such though her voice when I heard it sounded like she
was trying to be sexy with a sore throat. The trollop scriptwriter who
put in the embarrassingly awful and very cheesy NOT funny script that
she should speak like that needs a slap.

I am Number Four tries to come across as a romantic sci-fi action, but
it has little action (for teen boys), only about ten minutes and even
when there was, the camera jerked up and down with a shocking lack of
continuity I felt dizzy and couldn't make out what was going on so as a
result there is no excitement you feel in "watching" the action.
(Michael Bay who was the producer of this and still hasn't learnt from
Transformers 2) and little romance (for teen girls). With little
romance or action, the film just pointlessly meanders itself sluggishly
from scene to scene. In terms of the "romance" there is no chemistry
between John and Sarah and even the special effects are very poor and
look too obvious. The film is way too predictable with stereotypes
across the board which you will notice straight away making it
unimaginative and repetitive like the rest of the film. 

I paid £6.20 to see this abomination, I wish I hadn't. This is the
first turkey of the year I've awarded for a film (suppose it was only a
matter of time). This is just complete rubbish and I would not advise
anyone to see this travesty. There will be sequels unfortunately but I
certainly won't be signing up to see it. I would rather throw up thanks
then put myself through seeing another one of these. Trust me I am
Number Four is that crap. I would seriously advise you to skip it. It
is one of the worst films I have ever encountered.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw an advance screening of the flick tonight. The only reason I went
and saw it was because my buddy had a free screening pass for 2, and
it's a free screening. I remember reading the book and not being very
impressed, however I can't say I can pinpoint exactly what's been left
out since I had forgotten most of it. Not sure if I even care now that
I've seen both ends of the spectrum.

Caruso tries a lot to hide the book's flaws, and he really does try
hard. But somehow he only makes them more obvious. I'll admit there was
tonnes of action and good special effects, but really, when the story
wasn't stealing from other sci-fi (Animorphs, Johnny Mnemonic,
Superman- there's even an insulting John Carpenter's The Thing nod
too), it was overloading the audience's brain with Clichés that can be
found in almost any teen movie... ever. And some gigantic plot holes
you could drive a tanker through.

The action scenes I nearly left the cinema they were so bad. It's like
Caruso told the camera crew to zoom in really close while holding the
camera and shake it all about, shine flashlights in the camera lens,
and move it violently when some gets punched. Shaky Camera and quick
cutting must die, I'm tired of it.

The soundtrack was so bombastic and over the top. At times it sounds
like the boom mic is being banged against the inside of a 50 gallon
drum. At others it's like they're attacking their strings as fast as
they can really fast. The film's opening score piece over the panning
shot is especially insulting- it doesn't help that it lasts a minute
long and the cue's buildup is hilarious.

I know the movie is based on a book, but with even that said, there is
a tonne of clichés. Hot chick who loves photography? Check. New kid is
instantly buds with the nerd? Check. Douchebag jock who loves the hot
chick? Check. Kid finds out he has powers he can't control? Check. evil
villain are following kid and guardian? Check. Kid's guardian dies and
he must do the mission without him? Check.

There's also an annoying homo-erotic undercurrent between Sam and
"John". Also, don't get me started on the Thirty-Sue pileup that is
Number 6.

For every cliché, there's a gigantic plot hole. Why isn't the grocery
clerk suspicious of an alien with a hoodie and sunglasses buying a crap
load of turkeys? How is "John" unable to control his powers in class
yet able to control them perfectly in his backyard a matter of hours
later? Why do the Mogadorian(!!!!) speak with Jamaican accents? How is
the dog able to become all super-dog all of a sudden? Why are Lorien so
perfectly humanoid with a true lack of alien qualities? And how do
Lorien copulate? Yeah, let's not go there, because the last thing this
film needs is a Lorien sex scene.
