
My little girl is 5 years old. I was afraid this would be an update of
Pooh, an attempt to make him and his world more contemporary...try to
compete with Transformers and Harry Potter.

To my delight this is not the case. If you let your youngster watch
this movie they are in for a gentle play date with old friends.
Perfectly pitched silliness for my young one, she literally belly
laughed twice. Never once trying to cross that line with "risque humor
for adults".

I was so happy they avoided the intensity of Toy Story 3. Winnie the
Pooh is a small, quiet and perfect, like my little girl.
<|_=00=_|>
I was able to see a special screening of this movie at the L.A. Film
Festival and I was very excited for it. For starters, I'm a huge Winnie
the Pooh fan and the 1977 animated movie is one of my favorites.
However, even though I was very excited to see it I was a bit worried
that this might be a disappointment because I heard the running time
for the film was less than an hour. Well, while watching this movie my
worries were pushed to the side. I loved everything about this movie
and in the end I was quite pleased with the length of the film and when
I thought about it I'm not sure why that was a worry for me. Winnie the
Pooh isn't not something that can be stretched to 90 minutes without
having some major filling and this movie had none.

There have also been some talks about the animation and how it's in 2d
and that is one of the reasons I was excited. Winnie the Pooh wouldn't
work in any other type of animation and so Disney made the right choice
in returning to the 2d for this movie. The characters all look great,
especially Eeyore and Christopher Robin. Another thing that surprised
me about the movie was how every character was well represented. I was
worried that the story might not focus on all the characters and that
some would be left out. However, that was not the case. Every character
has their fair of great moments, from Eeyore's tail contest to Rabbit's
silly antics later in the movie. 

I think another reason why this film succeeds is because of the story
line. There is plenty of going on, but it doesn't get overstuffed and
it doesn't drag. The movie starts off on the characters looking for a
new tail for Eeyore and smoothly transitions into the characters trying
to rescue Christopher Robin because they miss read the letter he left
at his house. The voices for all the characters are great and it's
another reason this film succeeds. Everyone involved adds something to
each character and truly makes it their own, something a lot of other
animated movies fail at.

Lastly, the score for the movie was great and really added something
special to the scenes that carried the movie and hearing Zooey
Deschanel sing the Winnie the Pooh theme song was terrific. When I
think back on it there was nothing that disappointed me in this movie
and it was everything I could ever want from a Disney movie
<|_=00=_|>
I was waiting to see this for my 3 year old first visit to a cinema and
I have to say that although I wasn't brought up on Winnie myself, my
Daughter loved it and I have to say I was nothing but impressed with
this wonderful piece of simplicity, light humor and pure joy of the
film and it's characters.

If you want to spend an hour or so just seeing life in it's simplest
childhood joy as it should be for all children, then see this.

My Daughter loved it and all she said at the end was " again, again! "
while attempting to finish off all her popcorn!

One of the best films of the year and in some time to boot.
<|_=00=_|>
I have always been a fan of AA Milne's charming and whimsical stories
since an early age. The 1977 movie The Many Adventures of Winnie the
Pooh epitomised the childhood innocence that made the stories so
wonderful, as did the TV series The New Adventures of Winnie the Pooh.
I also liked a vast majority of the various film and TV incarnations
that were made between then and now.

Ever since hearing of this movie I knew I wanted to see it. Part of me
knew it would work, and for me when I saw it last night it did. My only
complaint of Winnie the Pooh is the length, at barely an hour(exluding
the credits and the short) the film is too short. Otherwise it is a
wonderful movie that like the 1977 movie and TV series captures
perfectly the childhood innocence that I know and love. Not only that,
it is also a welcome return to the traditional animation style as seen
with the original movie.

Speaking of the animation it is great. I always felt The Many
Adventures of Winnie the Pooh along with The Rescuers was the best
looking of the 1970s Disney movies, it had an elegant and warm feeling
to it. Winnie the Pooh maintains that elegant and warm feeling with
colourful backgrounds, cutely drawn characters and ravishing colours.
The songs and music heard in the movie aren't quite classic status
perhaps, but they are very memorable in the melodies and sweet in the
lyrics.

The dialogue is delightfully droll, with a lot for children and adults
to enjoy. The story is structurally thin somewhat, but it is never dull
thanks to the bright and breezy pace and the familiar yet absolutely
delightful story lines including Pooh hunting for honey, Eeyore hunting
for his tail and the search for the creature that Owl thinks has
carried off Christopher Robin. The characters are engaging and
wonderfully whimsical, Pooh is still endearing, Tigger is very funny
and Piglet is cute.

The voice acting is terrific really. These are not the original voice
actors, and most of the voice actors(excepting Jim Cummings) in the
likes of Tigger Movie, Pooh's Heffalump Movie and Piglet's Big Movie
don't return, but the new voice actors do make an effort to not sound
too different. Jim Cummings still does a wonderful job as Pooh and
Tigger, and John Cleese for me is the most thoughtful narrator of any
Winnie the Pooh film since Sebastian Cabot. I wasn't so sure though
about Tom Kenny at first as Rabbit, but he being a very talented voice
actor is also good.

Overall, delightful, charming and a lovely nostalgic trip down memory
lane, if only it wasn't so short. 9/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot even begin to tell you how excited I was to see this movie.
Winnie the Pooh has by far been the most important animated character
in my whole life. As a kid, I had a Winnie the Pooh chair that I would
sit in and I've had countless Winnie the Pooh pajamas and stuffed
animals. I saw the preview and started tearing up because it looked so
cute and it reminded me that I'm growing up.

The movie was incredible. The animation, the voices, the story, and the
good old Winnie the Pooh feeling, all mixed with the great songs and
hilarious dialogue made this movie truly special. I walked out of the
theater feeling sticky sweet like the "huny" Pooh loves so dearly.
Truly my favorite Pooh movie.

MUST SEE!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Winnie the Pooh is a marvelous and innocent adventure that has been
anticipated by me since its trailer debut. Every time I see the
trailer, equipped with the wonderful song "Somewhere Only We Know," I
break down. There is not a thing sad in the trailer, but just the soft
melody of the song, combined with warm and vibrant characters from my
younger years just puts me in tears. It's cute, innocent, and just the
way I wanted it.

I am beyond grateful that this didn't support the 3D epidemic sweeping
our nation these past years. Winnie the Pooh is made up of hand-drawn
animation that gives itself a water-color sort of look. It's truly a
throwback, and is a nice break from all the CGI animation that, while
nice to look at, can't match the feel of classic animation. I couldn't
imagine Winnie the Pooh in CGI anyway.

Before the movie, we get a short called The Ballad of Nessie, a kind
and gentle Loch Ness Monster who lives with her rubber-ducky. Her pond
gets taken over by a golf company and she is forced to move out and
find a way home. The short is sad, and well crafted simultaneously.
Combined with gentle narration.

On with the film, the story starts out as Pooh (Cummings) trying to
find some "hunny." Then, much to the surprise of everyone, Eeyore's
(Luckey) tale has gone missing. Christopher Robin (Boulter) holds a
contest with all his friends to find a new tale for Eeyore. Whoever
finds a good enough tale will win a jar of honey.

The next day, the gang still tries to find the tale when they find a
note from Christopher Robin saying "Gon out back soon C.R." Owl
(Ferguson) convinces the gang that the "back soon" means "The Backson,"
a vicious monster who does so many unexplainable things which they make
up on their own. So now it's up to everyone to go into the woods and
find The Backson and get their friend back.

There is a lot of singing in the film. Lots of well composed songs are
in here, my favorite being "The Backson Song." I wasn't under the
impression this was a musical, but the more I thought about it the more
it made sense. The target audience for this is most likely between 4-8.
So to put in a lot of soft and melodic songs in it was a good idea.

Winnie the Pooh is perhaps the most gentle film I can remember. Even
the "scariest" scenes won't freak out the little ones, and everything
is so calm, so tender, and so unobtrusive it's wonderful. Growing up
with Winnie the Pooh, this film was everything I wanted it to be. I
wanted it to be nostalgic, warm, and inspiring.

During moments of this film, my eyes watered. I can't answer if someone
asked me "Why?" I think it was because the film was so joyful and very
sweet. Plus, these are characters that I've known since my childhood. I
was grateful they didn't play the song "Somewhere Only We Know" from
the trailer. I would've broke down in front of everyone.

The voice acting is beautiful. The film doesn't market its actors
either. There is no grade-A "Brad Pitt," "Ellen DeGeneres," "Johnny
Depp" marketing scheme here. The actors who voice the characters were
chosen because they were fit to voice whoever they were able to. They
weren't picked because their names look good on a poster.

This is probably the best Disney film in years. It goes back to
everything that made Disney so great when they started off. Hand-drawn
animation, a lovely story line, and a positive feel. Even at an
incredibly short sixty-nine minutes, (minus, maybe, five from the
beginning short) Winnie the Pooh is lovely, crafty, and limitless.

Voiced by: Jim Cummings, Tom Kenny, Craig Ferguson, Travis Oates, Bud
Luckey, and Jack Boulter. Narrated by: John Cleese. Directed by:
Stephen Anderson and Don Hall.
<|_=00=_|>
I was 8 when I first read Winnie Pooh, I had the book until recently I
gave it to now 8 year old child. I would get into a fight with anyone
who offends Winnie. I don't even think I will see Cars 2. I can't enjoy
3D computer animation. It feels so dead and distant, especially
compared to cel animation which in contrast feels so alive and
immersive. There simply can be no comparison. 3D computer animation
ends with your popcorn, sweet, xxl, extra butter, ewwww. Hand drawn
animation stays with you. Computer animation can amuse you, while hand
drawn animation has ability to enchant you, mesmerize you, transform
you to another world where extraordinary things happen. I don't mind
employing Toon Boom as long as it doesn't overshadow the magic touch
between the artist's crayola and the paper. What is done on this
cartoon is pretty amazing. They capture the sense of Milne's original
and translate it into array of frames brilliantly. It is an outstanding
experience. I still remember the immaculate excitement I would get from
reading the book, and this cartoon has brought me that feeling, it made
me feel like I am 8 again and I take in the adventures of Winnie Pooh
like oxygen. Disney has done a terrific job, I am so glad they still
put out traditional animation to the big screens, nothing can
substitute the feeling of a drawing come alive. If you still have that
8 year old kid in you, if you still remember that feeling of ultimate
innocence, then go see this one and get the shot of the childhood
serum, trust me, you won't get this kind at any other screening.
<|_=00=_|>
Deep in the Hundred-Acre Wood lives an eclectic assortment of cuddly
creatures. They've lived there for as long as any of us can remember
first coming to the big screen with The Many Adventures of Winnie the
Pooh. Although Disney's later attempts to give A. A. Milne's characters
more movies have been somewhat successful, they never matched the
original. However, the new Winnie the Pooh is just as funny, hypnotic,
and wonderful as the original.

The film begins with Pooh finding himself in a familiar predicament;
he's run out of honey. As he sets out to find some, he gets involved in
all sorts of predicaments with his friends. From trying to find a
replacement tail for Eeyore to setting traps for the "Backson" monster,
Pooh's adventures are all at once familiar and refreshingly new.

The new characters for the voices are all wonderful, sounding enough
like the originals that the difference is barely noticeable. Tom Kenny
as Rabbit and Craig Ferguson as Owl are both highlights. But it's Bud
Luckey as the perpetually melancholic Eeyore that is the most fun to
listen to. The characters themselves are, of course, as lovable as
ever; Pooh being "a bear of very little brain" and Owl always rambling
on incoherently. John Cleese (of Monty Python fame) is wonderful as the
narrator, and the characters interact with him and the letters of the
book just as they did in the original; only this time they weave it
seamlessly into the plot.

Winnie the Pooh is a beautiful movie. For the most part it was drawn by
hand, which is something that doesn't happen too often these days. The
colors are vibrant, the backgrounds moody, and Pooh's honey dream-
sequence ranks up there with his heffalumps and woozles dream. 

The movie is short, clocking in at only a little over an hour, but it
is perfect. Whimsical, and gently beautiful, Winnie the Pooh is a
masterful Disney animated film, ranking with the likes of Pinocchio,
Fantasia, and Bambi. No matter how old you are, this movie gives off
enough warmth to fill anyone's heart with joy.

http://thatguythatlikesmovies.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Going to see this movie was like stepping back into childhood. I had
the 1977 movie on VHS when I was young and I wore that tape out with
countless viewings. I was also a big fan of the cartoon show than ran
during the nineties and the many direct-to-video films that came out
around that time too. So I already walk into this movie with nostalgia
on my mind - knowing roughly what to expect, and the film delivers
pretty much what you've seen before.

It follows the structure of the 1977 movie mostly, telling three
different stories over the length of the film. Which may have worked in
1977, but today if you cut the film apart into these three sections you
could just release them as specials on the Disney channel.

The voice work is as good as it needs to be. Jim Cummings is enigmatic
as always and Bud Luckey is a nice addition as Eeyore. It's not
Disney's best dubbing job but far from their worst.

The film is far too short, there was definitely time for another story
should there have been one. 70 minutes shouldn't really be acceptable
for a cinema release, under any circumstances.

All qualms I have with the movie are overshadowed by its innocence and
joy. Children who go to see this movie may love it, but adults may love
it more.
<|_=00=_|>
"Winnie the Pooh" is not just another classic animated book transformed
into a live action movie. Pooh and crew know exactly where they belong;
in classic 2D animation leading to a flawless transcription of these
characters to contemporary times. "Pooh" does not trying to impress
anybody and avoids falling into modern day pop culture stereotypes,
instead it is simpler than ever making no better way to spend an hour
of authentic entertainment for all ages. The story follows the ideals
of the original 1926 book by A.A. Milne originally made into animated
productions starting in 1966 told in the definitive page by page
storybook form. Narrated by John Cleese ("Monty Python"), Pooh (Jim
Cummings, "Princess and the Frog") begins his day like any other. After
sleeping in, he wakes up to an empty honey jar inevitably initiating a
quest for honey. On the way he runs into Eeyore (Bud Luckey, "Toy Story
3") who is still as downtrodden as ever and misplaced his tail giving
Pooh another task to complete. The issue is brought up with the rest of
the gang; Tigger (Also Jim Cummings), Rabbit (Tom Kenny, "Meet the
Robinsons"), Owl (Craig Ferguson, "How to Train Your Dragon"), Kanga
(Kristen Anderson-Lopez), Roo (Wyatt Hall) and Christopher Robin (Jack
Boulter). They decide to make it a contest to find Eeyore a replacement
tail. After their creativity runs out, Christopher Robin goes missing
sending the bunch into song as they find their friend, Eeyore's tail
and "huny" for Pooh.

Anyone who grew up with "Pooh" will be instantly transported back to a
humbler time through this short and sweet snippet of flawless
storytelling. The most important accomplishment of the film is staying
true to its routes because of its ability to create context. What do I
mean by context? Its simple; from its primary coloring, delicate
characterization, stark banter, and tranquil plot, everything is
coherently joint together. It is a franchise true to itself and is the
best movie parents have had in years to take their little ones to. Its
just plain old' harmless, straightforward fun without any unnecessary
forced plot conflicts or hang-ups on contemporary spectacle.

Many people may feel short-changed because of the hour runtime, even
though this is part of what makes it what it is. This is not a
monumental life changing film by any means; therefore, if you are
expecting a film synonymous with "Toy Story 3" you will be very
disappointed. In the contemporary eye of animated cinema "Winnie the
Pooh" does not stand a chance at making money.

A perfect little tale everyone young and old should see at some point
because while "Pooh" will not make history, it is a historical
flashback to the early days of cinema.
