
I just saw this wonderful film which is an amazing adaption to
Richler's story. The acting of the entire cast is extraordinary with
Paul Giamatti, Rosamund Pike, Minnie Driver and the great Dustin
Hoffman giving superlative performances. I sat in a small art-house
cinema in a suburb of Tel-Aviv, Israel and the quite large audience
(for a Saturday afternoon) enjoyed the film in total silence. You could
have heard a pin drop (and that doesn't happen very often!).

I note that some reviewers were offended by the fact that some of the
characters were unpleasant Jews. Well, that happens in life and as a
Jew I wasn't offended one little bit. Like every other people we have
nice and not nice people and I found the film to be very truthful, very
funny and also very sad. An exceptional achievement!
<|_=00=_|>
Of the few movies I really wanted to see but missed at this year's past
Toronto International Film Festival, Barney's Version is the one that I
regretted the most. It was one of the few shining examples of Canadian
film on display at the festival (and was anchored by the fact that it
was based off the critically acclaimed final novel by Canadian literary
icon Mordecai Richler), but apparently I was not the only one aiming to
see it. And after seeing the final film nearly five months later, I can
see why.

Barney (Paul Giamatti) is an aging television producer, divorced and
comforted only by his cigars and rash drinking habits. As a new book is
released detailing some sordid details of an event Barney would rather
forget, he starts to look back on his life and all the many mistakes he
made. And after three failed marriages, "many" may not be the apt word
to describe them.

I had read Barney's Version as a forced assignment in my final year of
high school, and never finished it cover to cover. It was dense,
lengthy, rambled for pages on end, and just did not feel satisfyingly
cohesive. It was punctuated throughout with hilarity, tragedy, and
sorrow, but never wallowed in it. You could practically smell the
detail of the characters wafting off each page. And as the title
suggests, it was the story of Barney's life, as told by Barney. It was
a somewhat enjoyable book, but having almost failed the assignment, my
memories of it are rather tarnished.

To my delight, this is not how the movie feels at all.

As opposed to a literal page to screen translation, Michael Konyves has
instead whittled and simplified the narrative down to the basics. He
changes, updates and moves a few things around, and loses others
completely. While this may outrage some fans of the book, it makes the
film all the easier to digest. It never gets lost in what it is trying
to say, and never falls into any of the densely boring traps the novel
set out for itself. The odd and intimate details of each character are
still here (more so from the principal cast than the supporting
players), as is the snappy and hilarious dialogue. And for the entire
running time, the film stays in Richler's unique voice, never straying
into unknown or lesser territory in any instance. For someone who has
previously worked mainly in television, this is an excellent
achievement and one that makes me look forward to Konyves future
projects.

As a Canadian myself, it pains me to note that the majority of films I
see are of foreign creation. So it was with great surprise that
Barney's Version, a Canadian film, looked and felt just as good as any
film coming out of the likes of the United States. The sweeping
decades-long set design, costumes, makeup and soundtrack are all
handled excellently as well. The little quips about Montreal and
Canadian life are great, as are the small blink-and-you'll-miss-them
cameos by some of the country's most famous auteurs. And unlike so many
Canadian-made films, Barney's Version stays true to the nation of its
birth but never force feeds Canadiana down the audience's throats. This
of course, is a small quip that may not be noticed in the slightest by
most audiences. But it is one that should be duly noted for all future
Canadian productions nonetheless.

As Barney, Giamatti is stunning and perfect as always. He is one of the
most talented and underrated character actors of his generation, and he
continues to prove his worth and excellence here. Barney's life is an
emotional roller-coaster, and Giamatti gives his all to make the
audience really feel for this pathetic, misguided, adolescent shell of
a man. It reminded me a lot of his work in Sideways, and is likely his
strongest work to date. No matter what emotion or word he is trying to
convey, you will hang on every sound and look. He just keeps getting
better with each new year, each new role. This is not quite the
inspired brilliance of Colin Firth in The King's Speech, or the
emotional powerhouse of James Franco in 127 Hours, but it is yet
another example of how criminally overlooked he is come award season.

The rest of the cast is fairly solid, no matter their screen time.
Rachelle Lefevre, Minnie Driver and especially Rosamund Pike are all
excellent as Barney's wives, as is Scott Speedman as his best friend
Boogie. But they are all overshadowed by Dustin Hoffman in the role of
Barney's father Izzy. He steals the show from just about everyone,
providing more gusto and depth than he has in years. And it does not
hurt that he has the most hilariously devastating moment in the entire
film.

If I have to hold anything against the film at all, it is in the fact
that it loses its momentum much too soon. The entire first half of the
film almost feels like whiplash from how fast-paced it moves along. But
once the second half comes, and the emotional weight of the movie kicks
into gear, it slows down a bit too hard. It never becomes boring, and
never drags its heels like the book does, but it just lacks the power
and finesse of everything that comes before it. The zest and drive of
the film are always there, but with how much has been altered and
changed to make the film more accessible to audiences, I think they
could have done a bit more to keep the film going for its entire
132-minute running time.

Barney's Version is a revelation of a film, packed with a great story,
excellent dialogue and even better performances. This is one of the
unsung best films of the year, and one that has and will continue to be
criminally overlooked.

9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Barney's Version in Toronto. Loved it. Superb performances by all
actors. Give yourself a night off, forget about your problems and find
out about Barney's problems and his friends problems, and his wive's
problems. It will make your life seem better. If you read the book, you
most definitely will enjoy the movie. Poor Barney, nothing seems to
turn out the way he wanted. He makes two really bad mistakes in his
personal life and even though he is successful in business, he is
really miserable and doesn't know how to fix it. An unexpected turn of
events, and voil√†, his worst problem is solved. But in an instant, he
messes up again and is suspected of murder. The answer isn't revealed
until the very end. I really felt sorry for Barney. The best line of
the movie comes out of Minnie Driver on their Honeymoon. The best scene
in the movie is a buff Scott Speedman stripping down to his underwear
to go snorkeling. Dustin Hoffman is funny as heck. His son is also in
the movie and is quite good. Rosamund Pike is enchanting and I see why
Barney loved her so much. Barney is played by Paul Giammati and I will
picture him as Barney forever. I wanted to give him a hug.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Ordinarily, a film with Rosamund
Pike and Bruce Greenwood in key roles would be sufficient for me to
stay home and watch The Nature Channel. However, Paul Giamatti and
Dustin Hoffman, as son and father, in a story based on Mordecai
Richler's novel was motivation enough for me to buck up and give this
one a shot. And what a pleasant surprise this film is.

Giamatti has mastered the role of cynical, self-absorbed, frumpy schlub
and his Barney is every bit that. The story is told through extended
flashbacks after we learn a detective has written a book accusing
Barney of killing his best friend (Scott Speedman). No charges were
brought and it's not until the end in an extremely creative reveal that
we understand what really happened that day at the lake. Unfortunately,
we aren't sure if Barney ever understands, but that's a whole different
topic.

Barney's first marriage comes about because his girlfriend gets
pregnant. This one ends in tragedy and betrayal and allows Barney to
spend much of his life on the path of cynicism, alcoholism and
cigar-chain-smoking. He is no pretty sight - from inside or out. He
stumbles into his second marriage, this one to Minnie Driver. Ms.
Driver is wonderful as the Jewish princess with a Master's Degree. How
do we know? She continually reminds us of both facts. Ever known anyone
that just constantly reminds you of how smart they are? How this
marriage ends leads to the whole suspicion of murder and loss of best
friend for Barney.

The real key to the story occurs at the wedding. Instead of worshiping
his new bride, Barney watches hockey, does shots with his Dad (Dustin
Hoffman) and experiences love at first sight ... not with his bride,
but with a guest played by Rosamund Pike. This encounter puts Barney on
a singular mission of winning over Ms. Pike, despite his marriage to
Driver. Can't really give anything away here other than the story is
very clever in how it handles the pursuit, failed marriage and
subsequent true love story.

Only thing is, Barney never really "gets" what true love is. Pike has a
wonderful scene where she explains that life and love are in "the
seconds, the minutes, the routines". Barney nods but is clearly in over
his head in so many ways.

What I really appreciate about this story is how there are so many
relationships that seem to spring from reality ... people we know in
situations we've been in. The title, of course, refers to Barney's
version of reality. How he sees things. We could each replace his name
with ours for a movie on our life. Do we see reality, or is reality how
we interpret these seconds, minutes, routines? The answer seems pretty
clear.

The film is directed by Richard J. Lewis (not the comedian) but is
really a product of the amazing story and talented cast led by the
extraordinary performance of Giamatti. Dustin Hoffman's scenes are all
excellent, and his real life son Jake, plays his grandson in the film.
Don't miss the quick scenes featuring standout directors Atom Egoyan,
David Cronenberg and Ted Kotcheff. It's also character actor
extraordinare Maury Chaykin's final film. And I certainly can't omit
mention of the fabulous soundtrack featuring T-Rex, JJ Cale, Donovan
and others. Leonard Cohen's "I'm Your Man" plays over the closing
credits so don't leave early!
<|_=00=_|>
Watched it in a early screening in Toronto, and I was shocked! I didn't
expect such an amazing movie. Will remember it for the rest of my life.

Ignore the comments by Jewish ladies who were offended by the movie's
contents. Those are just a small part of this masterpiece.

The roles are all played well. Paul Giamatti's role is nothing short of
Oscar-winning in my opinion. The story is fun, but serious. The scenes
are high-quality and well designed. I really didn't see anything
missing.

Just one point, DO NOT watch the trailers. They completely spoil the
movie. I think the main reason I loved the movie was that I did not
know anything about it. But for those who have read the book, it should
still be fun. It's a well-made movie, on top of a wonderful story.
<|_=00=_|>
Barney's Version is based upon the novel of the same name by Mordecai
Richler. The film spans several decades showing us the life of a man
named Barney Panofsky. The film does not hold back Barney's flaws as he
is very foul mouthed, speaks his mind (whether you want him to, or
not), drinks, smokes cigars and a lot of the time is an ego centric
jerk. However during the years we see Barney change in some ways as he
meets different women in his life and deals with family and friends as
well as humour and tragedy that everybody can say would happen in their
life and has. The trailers for Barney's Version, or at least the ones
that I have seen being played on the television, make the film look
like a raucous comedy, when really it couldn't be any farther from the
truth, or what is really at the heart of the film. There is a great
deal of comedy in this film as we laugh together with Barney and his
antics and sometimes laugh right at him for his unsophisticated and
ignorant ways. However as I said above we do get to see many different
sides of Barney as the film goes along and after awhile I stopped
thinking that this character is full of himself and kind of a jerk.
Instead, I realized and I think the point of the writing and the film
itself was to present him as a normal human being with some very good
points and also some very obvious flaws, or things they need to work
on, which in a sense I think describes just about anybody you can think
of. By giving Barney a human side and allowing us the viewer to care
for him in moments even when we don't want to, I feel it really
enhances the film and our relationship with him and the other
characters while watching it. I love when films do not just present
characters as one dimensional and having no real flaws, or struggles
and they just fit every perfect Hollywood hero out there. I find that
when they do that it is so unbelievable and it is harder to like, care,
or be interested in the characters because of this. I am so glad that
Barney's Version took the opposite route. By not only caring for Barney
in the film we get to care about his family and the circumstances that
will either be the most joyous in his life, or the most heartbreaking
and we are there every minute of it and it will keep us fascinated,
concerned and move us sometimes into laughter and at other times close
to tears. This film is a real powerfully emotional film. Yes there is
the comedy aspect, but it goes so beyond that by showing the inevitable
difficulties we will all end up facing in life and I think because it
is done so strongly here, it makes us reflect on our own lives and the
choices we have made so far no matter how old, or young you are and
whether those choices have been good, or just the opposite. The writing
of the characters and what makes them so human is one of the film's
strongest points because they all have wonderfully different
personalities and are all a joy to watch as we watch their lives unfold
before us. The acting is also wonderful here especially by Paul
Giamatti, who plays Barney in what I would call one of the best male
performances of 2010. He embodies the role so perfectly and we can see
the emotion, the hurt, the humour and everything coming out of this
brilliant performance. The supporting actors and actresses are all very
good here as well. I was so pleased at what an involving film this was.
It took me away from my own world and thoughts and put me instead into
Barney's world and made me laugh, cry and reflect with them and what a
wonderful experience that was. Barney's Version is not only
entertaining, but also deeply human and full of humour and tragedy that
will both touch our hearts and leave us with what I think is a
wonderful and insightful night out at the movies. Barney's Version is
one of the best films of 2010 and I hope both American and Canadian
audiences will embrace it and go out to see this wonderful gem.
<|_=00=_|>
This review contains SPOILERS

I wanted to like this film, since I'm a big fan of both Paul Giamatti,
who gave a wonderful performance, and Dustin Hoffmann who was
delightful and reminded me why he's (still) considered one of the best
actors of his generation. But I felt angry and manipulated by this film
-- much in the same way I do with a formulaic romantic comedy. The plot
also had some gaping holes -- such as with Minnie Driver's character
being so unidimensionally annoying after the marriage that I was left
wondering how Barney could have possibly made it to the alter since he
clearly hated this woman.

Most importantly, it was a HUGE stretch to believe that such an
accomplished woman would fall so easily for a man who shows up drunk on
their date, vomits in the restaurant and ploys to bed her. I found it
insulting and am so tired of this theme in so many Hollywood films. Why
did she stay with the schmuck for 20-odd years when he was clearly
deeply insecure, and an alcoholic? The film didn't let us in on any of
Barney's redeeming qualities that might have answered this question.
Instead, the film unfortunately sends an all too common and egotistical
message that men can behave badly and still get the girl in the end.
<|_=00=_|>
Giamatti has got to be the plainest looking leading man out there; yet,
his acting ability transcends his anti-matin√©e idol physiognomy by a
significant amount. And, remembering "Sideways," there is nobody who
can play a guy half-in-the-bag nearly as well. HIs facial expressions,
comic timing, and the way in which he delivers his lines are just
brilliant (and if you think he can only do comic turns, see HBO's "John
Adams"). Yet, every scene that he was in with Dustin Hoffman, Hoffman
stole! The director (Richard J. Lewis) is able to get everything from
this very talented cast, and puts together a movie that never drags, is
easy to follow even though it uses the flashback, and is punctuated
with several laugh-out-louds.

Giamatti's character--although a cad in some ways--manages to also be
quite endearing, and character development in the whole movie is
excellent. We know these people...some of them are in our family, some
are friends or perhaps, live next door. To be sure, there is a Jewish
aspect to the individuals and story (it's pretty hard to divorce that
aspect from anything Richler has written), but all the issues are
universal. If Woody Allen had done this movie, there would have been
endless navel gazing, and the characters would have been more
2-dimensional (just a mind game I played since the characters and the
themes are similar to those that The Woodman deals with).

At any rate, this is a brilliantly constructed examination of a life
that is enjoyable and entertaining; also, a great movie to see and have
dinner afterwards so all those who saw it with you could discuss--a lot
of meat for that. But, if it's not on a big screen within 30 miles of
you, it will play very well on the small screen in a few months; but
certainly go out of your way to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie moved me through it's no holds barred view of Barney's life.
We see his imperfections and self-inflicted wounds even as he tries to
build a life and family with his true love. Paul Giamatti wonderfully
portrays a life though the stages from youthful and idealistic 20's
through the difficulties of aging and confronting death. If you want to
give yourself a chance to be introspective about your own path and the
choices you've made in the various parts of your life you'll find this
movie to be very moving. It is a movie that the 50+ crowd will find to
be meaningful and honest. There is a lot to dislike about Barney and
the way he has hurt others, yet there is a good heart underneath it all
(as he yet fulfills the adage of being his own worst enemy). This was a
wonderful movie, now I'm looking forward to reading the book and then
seeing it again.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a beautiful, fascinating film about a very anti-social
character Barney Panofsky. It starts out in Rome in the 1970's and
spans a period of thirty years. The film is part murder mystery, love
story, and lastly a memoir of a Jewish Canandian television producer,
unlikable but never predictable. Paul Giametti gave an Oscar worthy
performance as this complex character. He actually makes you care about
Barney. Rosamind Pike, as Barney's third wife is wonderful, as is
Minnie Driver as the overbearing, Jewish 2nd wife. Dustin Hoffman is
Barney's dad and he captures the qualities of an earthy retired cup
from the touch neighbors of Montreal. Scott Speedman does a wonderful
job as Barney's drug addict best friend. 'Barney's Version' is based on
the novel by Mordecai Richler. a very famous Jewish novelist. To see
our full review please go to Two Jews On Film. We give this film a high
bagel rating
