
After reading the previous reviews of this movie, I am a bit surprised
to see how many people didn't like it. They didn't care for the
characters, because of their rude language, their clothes (Ooooh,
hoddies:) and the fact that they are petty criminals. But this is a
classic "bad guy turns hero" story with such a great written script and
talented young actors. The casting director did an excellent job
finding these kids. They are real, natural and very believable in
portraying being born and raised in Londons Ends. I found myself
actually caring about the characters and their destiny throughout the
movie. "Attack the Block" is a horror comedy about an alien invasion.
Aaaah, you think, I've seen this before! "Bodysnatchers", "The
Faculty", and not to mention the great TV-series "Falling Skies". But
this movie is different. The focus in the film lies with the
characters, and their reaction to having their street invaded by
aliens. The aliens them self are kind of cheesy, but scary in a funny
way. I expected Nick Frost to have a bigger role, I loved him in "Shaun
of the Dead" and "Paul". But he never disappoints me, funny as always
:) I really enjoyed this movie, and if you like movies like "Shaun of
the Dead" and "Tucker & Dale vs Evil", you'll probably enjoy this as
well.

Favourite quote from the movie " Oh man! All this weed and no skins...
This is the worst day of my life!"
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this without knowing the production team, who worked on it,
nothing. A friend just said 'you like sci-fi movies right? Here.' And
I'll admit, for the first ten minutes, I was worried. The throw-back
creature-feature title sequence being my main concern.

But after that wavery start, I watched over an hour of what I would
consider to be one of the truest, bloodiest and certainly most
adrenaline-packed horrors I've seen in a very very long time.

The main kids - the 'gang' - are very real and the kids' acting really
shines. Moses, the lead, certainly leads us through a series of complex
emotions, from hatred to forgiveness, and round again a few more times
just for kicks. The actor who played him will be going places with a
sullen wall-eyed expression that he still manages to convey so much
meaning with.

As to the plot - well, most of the actual plot is there for comedy, and
the moment of gratuity when the adults are plainly dumber than the kids
(teenagers everywhere punch the air and laugh). I was expecting, as I
watched the film with ever more pleasure, to be let down and have the
aliens' presence left unexplained, as with many non-blockbuster
horrors. But, in two mere sentences, the loose threads are tied and the
finale is lead into all in one great sweep of fantastic writing.

Last, but definitely not least, the aliens themselves were phenomenal.
There was a certain amount of keep-them-in-the-dark and
leave-it-to-your-imagination, but there were also absolute gore-fest
moments which were done superbly (though the squeamish may need to
blink). The aliens were well designed and were flawlessly integrated
into the movie. To be honest I don't even know if they were puppets or
CGI - I was so caught up in the fast-paced running and fighting, into
which they were so seamlessly included.

Definitely one to watch for fans of the genre, fans of the creators, or
anyone looking for a thrill. I'll certainly be watching it again. And
if you wanna read someone say it better than I just did -
http://www.flickfilosopher.com /blog/2011/08/attack_the_block_
review.html (remove superfluous spaces) (contains language, in movie
quotes).
<|_=00=_|>
Finally got to see this film after wanting to for ages because I'm a
huge Nick Frost fan (although admittedly mainly through Spaced and
Shaun of the dead). I would have put money on me loving this film. What
wasn't to love for a bloke in his 20's  monsters/aliens, groups with
weapons working together (The warriors anyone?!) and of course Nick
Frost.

Well, I'll tell you the reason why I hated it  because the characters
we were meant to love were essentially scumbags. Being a secondary
school teacher it is depressing how often I see and hear teenagers
acting hard, wearing hoods and trackies (even if it's 30degrees!, using
ridiculous and often rude language and generally lacking basic morals
and respect. And now here is a film that not only expects us to
identify and go on a journey with these characters but also glorifies
them!

My hesitation began in the opening scene when they pulled a knife
whilst mugging a woman and seemed to have nothing but contempt for her.
I thought to myself 'Hmmm, that's quite extreme as I thought we were
going to like these guys?' Now that would have been OK if the story had
quickly unfolded that it was just a big front and they were actually
quite nice and don't really like hurting people they just do it as they
don't know any better, but this wasn't the case. It clumsily seemed to
try to swing it this way with some of the characters (the one with
glasses seemed particularly easy to like), but most of them continued
to be little scrotes if I'm honest. 

The way the police were viewed and portrayed I thought was pretty
disgraceful and again painted an image that it was cool to hate the
police. 

Probably the biggest let down was that I suddenly realised near the end
of the film that I hadn't actually laughed once. A couple, and I mean a
couple, of moments of light relief from Frost was about all I smiled
at. I also thought the development of the characters was poor or almost
non existent, especially the token weed smoking posh white boy who for
me added nothing. 

To the films credit I thought it was shot well, the monsters were good
(in a budget/cult like way) and most of the acting was good, although
it seemed to try far too hard to make them all use the teenage 'buzz'
words constantly. Probably why the one liners failed to work IMO. It
was bare annoying. 

The sad thing is I can see some of the kids I teach watching this and
wanting to be just like them. At least the worst thing I'd have been
likely to say at their age would have been "I need your clothes, your
boots and your motorcycle"!
<|_=00=_|>
Where to start. Unoriginal alien invasion plot? Uninspiring tone? Bad
dialogue? No, let's start at storytelling 101 - the characters.

The hero characters that you are meant to empathise with are
essentially teenage narrow-minded thugs; not the best choice in terms
of storytelling as few people would empathise with them, but I thought
they might do something interesting with them later in the story to get
you as the viewer on their side, but alas they didn't.

The characters are poorly established. Characters seemed to come and go
for the first two thirds of the film making it very unclear which
characters the film is actually focusing on, never mind establishing a
protagonist.

Which brings me on to my next point. Why establish your protagonist and
outline their background towards the end of a film? You need to
establish an emotional connection between the protagonist and the
audience early on, and then reward / emotionally toy with the audience
throughout the rest of the film. This is what makes films enjoyable to
watch.

The film generally consisted of the kids spouting lines that they deem
clever with such consistency you start to wonder whether they are doing
it for effect or the director actually thinks the lines are truly
funny. Only towards the end stages of the film did I even start to find
the dialogue mildly funny. Their London "gangsta" accents will grind on
you throughout the film without fail however, so don't think a few
funny lines will rescue you from this.

The plot was basic and predictable. Basic I can forgive, as there's no
need to over-complicate a storyline as it can diminish it's impact, but
the fact that it took the path of least resistance to the end wasn't so
forgivable. The only aspect of the plot I liked was that the woman who
the kids mugged was forced to team up with them to defeat a common
enemy, which provided some interesting tension and humour.

The only thing I truly liked about the film was that the aliens were
really black, really really black. So black in fact they almost aren't
there. This was believable in terms of the evolution of a species which
required camouflage and a cool little feature of the invaders. Aside
from that I'm really struggling to find anything good to say about this
film, apart from one or two funny lines as I've already mentioned.

In short, it wasn't silly enough to fall into the slapstick horror
category, nor was it structured well enough to even be considered an
average film. I'm mystified as to how this film has gained a 7.5 IMDb
rating at the time of writing this review.
<|_=00=_|>
I was truly disgusted at the attempt of justifying the behaviour of
hoodies in the UK. Four of our five "heroes" live with their parents
and are well provided for. The fifth thug (Moses) lives by himself and
this is supposed to justify the fact that he put a knife to a woman
with the help of his friends. If you can have an education and instead
of making the most of it choose to become a ridiculous brain-dead thug,
do not blame the police, the establishment or the bloody aliens. If you
want to know who is guilty, find yourself a mirror. If your parents are
so useless that are unable to control or even find out what their
children are after, then they should be heavily fined. There is no
excuse: you get what you deserve. To make things worse, Moses had a
"intellectual" moment and claims that aliens have been brought by the
police to kill black people in the same way that drugs were introduced
for the same purpose. What a phenomenal moron!
<|_=00=_|>
a gang of teen thugs begin by mugging, at knife-point, a woman of her
phone and purse. Then an alien lands, destroying a car. The gangs'
first impulse? what can they steal from the car! I was praying that
they all become the aliens' first victims, but no, we go on to discover
that these scum, in association with the blocks drug dealing wannabe
"gansta" arm up and kill the aliens. This is a terrible film. If it's
trying to portray the "yout" as being brave and heroic in someway it
fails miserably. All it does is cement in people's minds that teenagers
are all thieving, knife wielding scum. There's no revelation by the
gang in this film, they don't come to realise that their lifestyle is a
problem or any such nonsense, they just act out their ignorant, pack
mentality behaviour and reinforce stereotypes that need to be broken
down. An awful film and not even the so called comedic touch of Nick
Frost do anything to make this film watchable. Avoid it like a dose of
the clap.
<|_=00=_|>
This film seems to glorify gang culture in the UK. I was quite
optimistic when I started to watch it and came to the mugging scene. I
took an immediate dislike to the characters but thought I would give it
a chance as they were bound to redeem themselves later on in the film.
They didn't. I was actually quite pleased when a few of them met their
demise.

If I were the woman in that situation I certainly wouldn't want to help
these scrotes after the abuse she still continues to receive when they
ask, sorry, demand her help later on in the film.

The sfx were not too bad for a budget film and I will also give them
credit for getting the character stereotypes spot on.

If you are worried about the chav gang culture in the UK then avoid
this film. If you call your mates 'bruv' and own quite a few hoodies
and terrorise communities then this film is for you.
<|_=00=_|>
How you react to the film will be determined by how you feel about the
knowing attitude of the film and the characters. If you don't like the
attitude and the characters then you'll be like me lost.

Story of a bunch of alien monsters that fall to earth and attack an
apartment block. Its defended, in a manner of speaking by some kids,
with severe attitude problems that make them seem more like posers then
real people.

As I said how you react to the characters will determine how you react
to the film. I found them annoying and overly strident. It has nothing
to do with them being criminals and everything to do with them being
smart mouthed kids you kind of want to slap and say get with the
program. yes I know its where they live, but at the same time they seem
to be taking a stand rather than acting.

I also wasn't keen on the attitude of the film which was way too
knowing, way too hip and happening and way too stacked in favor of our
characters. You know they'll pull it out because the film seems to be a
victory saga of their great deeds.

Can you tell I really didn't like it? For me its like the monsters glow
in the dark teeth, a nice idea for ten seconds and then you realize its
completely unreal and kind of stupid.

Your mileage may vary
<|_=00=_|>
This is without doubt the worst film I have seen this year, I really
hoped it would be much better because I'd been looking forward to it
for a such a long time. I'm a fan of Joe Cornish and I was raised on
films like Gremlins and Critters. This film really has very little in
common with either of them, they at the very least were original and
entertaining.

So, attack the block - terrible dialog, awful acting, rubbish aliens
(think men in gorilla suits), an unsatisfying and dull story...... was
it supposed to be sf, horror, comedy ? It didn't succeed at any of
them.

But worst thing of all, this is a film that actually seems to glorify
hoody culture, it made me angry that a film that is obviously aimed at
teenagers makes it look cool to carry weapons like knives, smoke weed
all day, steal and mug people.

In the current climate, especially in the UK shouldn't film-makers take
a bit more responsibility. In the opening scene we were treated to 5
masked teenagers terrifying and mugging a young woman on her way home
from work. I almost switched off, but hoped there might be some sort of
moral ending ..... no such luck, the ring leader survives and is
worshipped as a hero. There were only 2 educated characters portrayed
in the film and they were made to look like pathetic losers all the way
though. I don't know if this film set out to show gang culture and
stealing as cool and fun alternative to gaining an education and
working but this seems to be one of the messages it is sending out.
<|_=00=_|>
I purposely avoided promos and trailers for Attack the Block. Other
than aliens being involved in some capacity and Nick Frost being in the
film, I had no idea what it was about either. When it comes to movies
these days, movie studios are banking on titles to be huge hits and
promote them into the ground. You feel like you've already seen half
the movie by the time it's released while lesser known films usually
get little to no promotion and bomb because nobody knew anything about
them. And as a movie critic, going into a movie and saying you don't
know absolutely everything about it beforehand is kind of liberating.
Remember the days when you'd go to the movies not knowing what to see
and you'd pick something based on the movie poster alone? I miss the
days when there weren't a ton of commercials before the trailers, but I
digress. Attack the Block, much like any film should in this situation
is already entertaining in its own right but is an even stronger
experience if you know nothing about it going in.

This is Joe Cornish's first time sitting in the director's seat, but it
certainly doesn't feel that way. His sense of perspective is fantastic
and the lighting in the film is utilized in the alien creatures'
benefit. Something as simple as lights dimming in a hallway is suddenly
way more intimidating after seeing Attack the Block. The cast works
better as a cohesive unit rather than individually, but there are a few
that standout above the rest. Moses (John Boyega) is probably the most
obvious choice since he's the leader of the gang and the story kind of
leans in his favor, but Brewis (Luke Treadaway) is right up there as
well. His rather oblivious attitude towards aliens invading their
neighborhood due to him being stoned all the time got more laughs than
anything else in the film. He didn't even have to say anything half the
time. His appearance and body language will have you rolling at times.
Pest (Alex Esmail) steps it up a bit after he has a close encounter
with one of the alien monsters. His incessant ramblings about the
aliens along with his constant flirting with Sam (Jodie Whitaker) is
rather humorous. Nick Frost has more of a supporting role than a main
one, but is hilarious every time he's on screen. The young cast along
with its content gives the film a bit of a Goonies or even Monster
Squad kind of vibe and that is something to be proud of.

The creatures themselves may be the highlight though. Their original
design along with the way they tend to slink around in the shadows is
both incredibly cool and really unnerving at the same time. They're big
enough to be described as gorillas, are black, and hair seems to cover
their entire body. They have no eyes, have glow in the dark teeth, and
also crawl on all fours. There's a chase scene near the end of the film
that's shown in slow motion that is really spectacular. Most of me just
wanted to see more of these creatures even though they're featured
significantly in the second half of the film. Attack the Block is
homage to the great horror films from the 80s and is reminiscent of
Gremlins while offering the atmosphere of the really fantastic John
Carpenter films. Critters also comes to mind, but Night of the Creeps
was the first thing I thought of when they started falling from the sky
except Attack the Block is an all around better film.

Attack the Block is a unique vision of terror that is laugh-out-loud
funny at times, terrifying at others, and massively engaging in
between. The film wears its influences on its sleeve, but combines them
with a simple but flawlessly executed story and hilariously strong
ensemble cast to result in one of the greatest throwbacks to fun 80s
horror ever along with becoming one of the most entertaining films of
the year.
