
Let's be honest, here. Nobody expects any real movie quality from a
dance movie, except for beautiful and entertaining dance moves and a
director who's skilled enough to shoot them adequately. Anybody
complaining about the cheesiness of dialog or the non-existent plot is
missing the point. Dance movies are cheesy by definition ("Dirty
Dancing", anyone?), so the viewers must adopt a kind of "suspension of
belief" and embrace what is being offered. Does anybody enjoy ballet or
operas for their plot? Compared to an opera libretto, an episode of
"Gossip Girl" is "Citizen Kane". "Streetdance" has the merit of
presenting nice choreographies (especially the very interesting finale)
accompanied by an enjoyable soundtrack, with also a bit of professional
acting courtesy of Charlotte Rampling. The 3D effects offer a pleasant
support to the dancers' efforts. It's an honest movie. It doesn't
promise anything more than what it is.
<|_=00=_|>
For a minute this looks like another American film that just can't wait
to jump onto the 3D bandwagon, and taking along the teenage dance film
fan demographic with them. But surprise, it's a British film, and the
Brits can street dance just as well, going heads up with yet another
upcoming American dance film continuing the Step Up franchise, also
presented in 3D.

So is this new three dimensional format any good for this genre? There
are a few moments and scenes here specifically crafted with 3D in mind,
such as the tossing of items toward the screen, from hats to a busy
food fight in a school canteen. There's also some jarringly added
bullet-time choreography during one of the street dance battles in a
club, but the real treat here is for that depth of field when we sit
around and admire the precision-timed and energetic dance choreography
from procedural balletic moves to raw, improvisational street dancing.

But this film does go the distance to explain and show the basics 101
of street dance, since it has characters from different camps put
together to try and influence one another, and from their initial
adversity come craft something unique from its diversity. All these
thanks to Charlotte Rampling's Helena, a ballet teacher looking to
infuse some spunk, energy and drive into her lethargic ballet students
who are looking to impress some judges for entry into the prestigious
Royal Academy of Dance.

At the opposite corner, we have a crew looking forward to their
participation in the UL Street Dance Competition finals, only for their
leader Jay (Ukwell Roach) handover the reins to his girlfriend Carly
(Nichola Burley) who has to step up to the plate and assert her own
leadership style in the crew's final lap to glory. To make matters
worse, she has a lack of EQ with her teammates save for a few core
supporters, and has to gather logistics from scratch, hence a marriage
of strange bedfellows when she takes up Helena's offer.

Simply put, the story's very typical of dance films, with the usual
themes of clashing of cultures, and to learn from each other's
differences. Much like a Zero to Hero story with the usual cliché
trappings involving romance, betrayal and friendship, with that dash of
comedy, eye candy cast and of course, authentic street dancing moves
unseen (at least to me) put on the big screen, made to come alive
through 3D technology properly done. You'll come to expect that usual
big bang finale where the fruits of the characters labour become the
money making showpiece that the teenage crowd will line up for, and
probably emulate, and it's not hard to see how this cannot go down that
path of glory.

It's something that street dance enthusiasts, and they're growing by
the numbers everyday, will embrace and flock to the cinemas for, and
hey, the fusion of ballet and street dancing elements does pose an
intriguing proposition. But after all, it's not about the techniques
and styles used, but that of the human spirit of expression and
perseverance, practice and camaraderie that ultimately soars above all.
Recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
'StreetDance 3D' is pretty much another dance movie of the current crop
of recently released dance films such as 'Step Up'. Now, if one likes
dance and energy, such as myself, they can enjoy this one. The story is
easily predictable and it doesn't have anything new to offer but I felt
that it was well told and the viewer does care for the characters.
There's plenty of energy, drama and lightness to entertain. The acting
of Nichola Burley and co is very good. Charlotte Rampling also does a
fine job as the encouraging kind-hearted teacher. However, the
highlights of 'StreetDance 3D' are the dance sequences. Each of the
actors/ dancers give their all to the performances exuding energy,
passion and love for music and dance. The refreshing and innovative
combination of ballet and streetdance is wonderful to watch. I didn't
see the 3D version but I doubt that it would effect my liking.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't really like dance movies. Dirty dancing has its brilliant
moments, but that's generally my limit. So when was forced to see
street dance 3d I was very depressed. But surprisingly i loved it! It
was very enjoyable with brilliant dance, storyline, tension and
romance. You don't get much better than that! It isn't as good as the
great dance movie, dirty dancing, but it's better than all the other
mediocre dance movies, like step up, you got served and honey all put
together. Girls, drag your boy friends to see this film- he'll hate it
with a vengeance, but if you like dance, tension and romance, you'll
love it!
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a big dance movie fan, but I have to admit this mix of the
somewhat raw energy of streetdance and the controlled grace of ballet
is enjoyable.

First and foremost the brilliant streetdance choreographies are what
make the movie worth seeing. The story on the other hand is mostly very
predictable and does not offer anything new. I also have to say, that I
think you can just as well see this film in the normal version as there
were only two scenes with motion directly towards the camera. To me
that is the only big difference the relatively new 3D technology makes.
I always enjoy when objects or people seem to leave the screen and fly
directly towards me.

In a movie where most of the time a lot of people are in motion, I
would have expected more of that and think it could have been achieved
easily by using more different camera positions. Of course that is much
easier in the animated movies, such as Avatar or How to train your
dragon. A few mouse clicks did the trick in those cases. But I guess as
filmmakers are learning to adjusts to this, we might see more true 3D
shots in the sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
"Streetdance," to an extent, shares the same problem as other movies
about dance. When the first dance movie (which was probably "Save the
Last Dance) appeared, it seemed fresh and original not least of all
because of the choreographed dance routines. But now the genre of dance
films can do little more than repeat the same formula and the result is
a bit tedious. Incidentally I had a similar reaction to the martial
arts films. The first Karate Kid was great from beginning to end. But
the spectacle and energy of these martial arts film soon faded and even
the attempts to spice up the genre with explosions and shoot outs did
not quite work.

So does "Streetdance" suffer from this trend? Yes. But does
"Streetdance" also make up for this fact? To a surprising degree, it
does. There is not too much to be said for the plot which is riddled
with so many clichés, including the climatic little dance battle at the
end, that it appeared to be recycled from the "Step Up" genre. Yet it
is fresh in some respects. Nichola Burley, for example, brought
something new to her performance as the head of the streetdance group
Carly who also has to help ballet dancers bring some fire to their
performances. Nichola is genuinely likable, sweet and fun all at the
same time and these traitsallow her to get away with saying some very
ridiculous grandstanding speeches like (I'm paraphrasing) we are going
to combine ballet and street dance and "create something beautiful." If
a lesser actor, like Amanda Seyfried, Megan Fox or even Kat Dennings,
spoke like that, it would never seem believable. But Nichola
miraculously makes scenes like that work. Nichola is also aided along
the way by other likable characters like the implied love interest
Tomas (Richard Winsor). Charlotte Rampling, who played one of the heads
of ballet school Helena Fitzgerald, delivers the kind of great
performance one would expect from someone with her calibre, even though
she is unfortunately not given much to say or do. "Streetdance" also
has some memorable scenes, such as the one where two street dancers
pretending to be manniquins communicate with a little boy, who is also
a great street dancer, through the medium of dance. Another memorable
scene has Carly and her co-worker turning their mundane job of making
sandwiches into a dance routine, which was kind of neat.

6.3/10
<|_=00=_|>
I always love musical movies, but what I never realized before is that
there is one other category that I may love it as well as musical
movies, it is dance movies! "StreetDance" is a perfect example of
today's dance movie. The story just seems to be another repetition from
other similar movies. It's all about rebellion against establishment of
formal institutions and it's also about how to express yourself. It's
the whole elements that have been occurring since "Footloose" (1984) to
the modern breathtaking flick like "Step Up 2: The Streets" (2008), in
which I think that it is still the best presentation of our time. The
modern dance movie is also always about traditional art-school dancer
Vs. freestyle street dancer, where on thiz movie is street dancers vs.
ballet dancers. It is about Carly (Nichola Burley) and her dance crew
which later named "Breaking Point". They have to mix together with
several ballet dancers from The Royal Dance School in exchange for
rehearsal place. Nichola Burley can deliver her character smooth enough
to take us into energizing mood with her unique British accent and some
enthralling dancing moves as well. Thiz movie really put Burley into
the spotlight since last time I saw her in psychological thriller
"Donkey Punch" in 2008. Other Cast members are Charlotte Rampling,
Richard Winsor and real life professional dancer like George Sampson.
Thiz movie is also featuring "Britain's Got Talent" stars, Diversity
and Flawless. It is very exciting to observe how the recent street
dance style has evolved outside of dance studios. The movie is
surprisingly directed by first time Directors, Max Giwa and Dania
Pasquini. It is delightful and enjoyable movie. It's filled with
fascinating choreography and heart-throbbing hip hop music. The pop
group N-Dubz said, "We Dance On".

Visit My Blog on JONNY'S MOVEE : http://jonnyfendi.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
This could very well be the easiest review I've had to write. Do you
like dancing? More particularly, do you like street dancing? However
you answer this will determine if StreetDance 3D is for you. There's
not much more to it really.

Those who enjoy eclectic, off-the-wall break-dancing will have great
fun with the plethora of set pieces on offer here, especially the
routines performed by previous Street Dance Championship winners The
Surge (clearly a real-life dance group) who were engrossing to say the
least. On the flipside, if you replied no to my previous question then
perhaps you should steer clear. You won't be able to look past the
atrocious acting  everyone from b-girl wannabe Burly to the sincerely
out of place Rampling to the total cheeseball Winsor are on extremely
poor form  the wafer-thin plot or the laughably rubbish dialogue all
for the sake of some killer moves.

Strangely enough this is the first British 3D film to be produced.
Thankfully it wasn't just tacked on at the end similar to what we saw
in Clash of the Titans or The Final Destination, but the movie was
actually filmed in digital 3D, thus utilising the feature to decent
effect. It's arguable that a flick like this overly benefits from the
extra dimension, however the additional depth is definitely noticed in
a few of the dance segments.

With a thumping soundtrack and a range of enthralling dance sequences,
StreetDance 3D could be the perfect no-brainer movie for you.

3 out of 5 (1 - Rubbish, 2 - Ordinary, 3 - Good, 4 - Excellent, 5 -
Classic)
<|_=00=_|>
I was really entertained when I watched this in the cinema. The story
is nice enough (yes clichés ahead, but it's a picture about dancing,
about overcoming odds, you expect it to have a few), with obstacles
build in the way, that you will expect and predict, but all told
nicely. And it did not originate from the US, which came as a surprise
to me (since almost every dance movie minus the Bollywood fare, seems
to be made in the US)! 

I liked the acting (for the movie that it is) and the dance scenes were
good enough, to be told in 3-D. Though I have to admit, that there are
a few sequences in the new Step up, that easily put anything to shame
that is shown here. But in contrast to that, the story here is more
solid, more believable (in my eyes). Nice entertainment and
unfortunately overseen at the Box office (at least that's what I heard)
<|_=00=_|>
The dance routines are great - of course. This is a dance movie, after
all. The ballet and street dance are given equal treatment in terms of
respect and quality. The overt messages are all good, if a bit
unoriginal: "Don't chase success, make success", "Never give up on your
dreams", "Loyalty comes before personal gain", and "Respect
differences". This last, however, comes with an interesting, unspoken
lesson. 

All through the film, we see how street dance is more "accepting" than
ballet. In ballet, you must move in set ways, be of a certain age and
body-type, and follow the traditions. In street dance, everyone is
welcome, and pretty much anything goes. This is said, both in the
dialogue and in the characters' actions. So, ballet-dancers are snobs,
and street dancers are cool, right?

Except, when Breaking Point begin their competition performance, they
open with classical music. The entire crowd starts to boo, without even
waiting for the dance to begin. The booing and jeering doesn't stop
until the music changes to something that they approve. This is the
"cool", "anything goes" street dance scene, but they are just as
prejudiced as anyone else.

A balanced message, and all the better for being unacknowledged in the
film. No scene is perfect, but within any and every genre you will find
tolerant, open-minded and friendly individuals.
