
I saw this in Savannah (Film Festival), with a crowd that was averaging
50 and above. Everybody was laughing through out the whole picture,
when I came out of the theater everybody only said nice things about
it, I have never seen so many old people come out of a theater so
happy!!!

Please see this film, NO MATTER WHAT AGE YOU ARE. People don't make
movies for such a demographic, or at least rarely, this movie quite
frankly made me weep, laugh, and have a range of feeling that I have
not experience from any picture released this year! 

Some moments hit you hard man, real hard, you might be laughing one
scene and then the next scene you just realized that the 'thumb up'
from one old man to the next gives chills on how life can end at any
moment and at any time.

Dustin Hoffman, my man, you have made many people, many seniors of this
country really happy, you have done what most always want but never
will.

Thank You, to the cast and to the crew!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
What remarkable good fortune that Dustin Hoffman chose this Ronald
Harwood play (and screenplay) for his directorial debut at age 75. This
is a movie for actors, and there are many terrific performances in this
wonderful ensemble piece about the residents of a home for aging
musicians, which we saw at our movie preview club.

But the warmth of the story - the vibrancy of the seniors playing
string quartets and practicing their cellos and clarinets, their
friendships, annoyances, disappointments, and even loves - marks this
film as something very special.

Hoffman has taken a beautiful English estate and turned it into a world
of music filled with well-drawn and compelling characters: the woman
with advancing dementia who relishes the CD of her performing Rigoletto
40 years ago; the flirtatious Wilf, whose "advances" towards the women
on staff are never offensive and always charming; the aging diva - the
always wonderful Maggie Smith - who is horrified by the thought that by
moving in her life is over.

The best drawn (and in my mind, played) character is Wilf's best friend
Reggie, who doesn't get Wilf's preferential treatment but has a quiet
dignity and love of his life and his art that quietly shines through.
His scene teaching students by comparing opera and rap may be this
film's best. 

Reggie is played by one of the most underrated and powerful British
actors of his time, the estimable Tom Courtenay. It's hard to believe
it's been 50 years since he starred as a 25-year-old in The Loneliness
of the Long-Distance Runner. In a performance of grace, nuance, and
elegance, Courtenay outshines even Maggie Smith. Perhaps he's inspired
by working again from a Harwood screenplay; it was Harwood who wrote
The Dresser, an excellent 1983 vehicle for Courtenay and Albert Finney.

One more note: Finney was apparently supposed to play the Wilf role,
but unfortunately was not up to it health-wise. But comedian Billy
Connolly's performance is just splendid.

See this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
"Quartet" is the filmization of Ronald Harwood's 1999 play with the
screenplay by the author. The story is set in a retirement home for
musicians named for Sir Thomas Beecham. Plans are underway for the
annual concert fundraiser to coincide with Verdi's birthday. Heading
the gala committee is Cedric played by Michael Gambon. Kudos to Mr.
Gambon for rocking the caftan like no one since George Zucco in "Tarzan
and the Mermaids". One of Cedric's committee members is soprano Cissy
played by the delightful Pauline Collins. Cissy is a "getting worse" in
that her memory is failing. Her old stage partner Wilfred is the
resident naughty man of the home played by Billy Connolly in his
familiar raucous way. Wilfred delights in flirting outrageously with
all the women and needling Cedric. The more sedate Reg played by Tom
Courtenay came to the home to check on Wilf who had been admitted after
a slight stroke. Here Reg found his niche in caring for his friends and
holding classes for young people.

Into this garden spot comes a new resident, a noted opera star played
by Maggie Smith. Jean is known to all and her appearance is less than
appreciated by her former husband Reg. Her arrival shakes up his whole
existence. There is also another "star" in residence brilliantly cast
with Dame Gweneth Jones. The dagger-like looks that flash between the
two divas, when the term meant more than demanding behavior, is worth
the price of admission.

Jean's adjustment to the retirement home and a crisis with the annual
gala are the concerns of the present. Reg's torment over the presence
of his lost love makes old wounds fresh. Life is definitely not
retiring in this home because, as Cissy is fond of quoting Bette Davis'
remark, "old age is not for sissies".

Director Hoffman gives us many quiet moments to observe the entire
ensemble as life swirls around the preparations for the all-important
concert. We get to know the patient piano teacher/accompanist, the old
song and dance men, the lifelong choristers, the pit musicians and the
staff of the home, along with our "quartet". I laughed, I cried, I
laughed again, and I cared. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
It isn't often one can say "I loved every moment", but for this film
it's true! Never for an instant does Dustin Hoffman stray into
overwrought drama, mawkishness or bathos: his direction is restrained
and subtle, there is humour a-plenty, yet the film packs a powerful
emotional punch. And with a cast like that, how could he lose? And
that's not just the stars, although they create wonderfully satisfying
characters: the "minor" characters are also perfectly realised. Plus,
the settings!!!! I felt like rushing off to make a booking at Beecham's
for my old age! With such a great ensemble cast we are well-served,
though for me, Pauline Collins was a stand-out - funny and so touching.
I think I'd like to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
As a 16 year old, it's safe to say that this obviously is not a film
which is aimed at me at all, being based in a retirement home for old
musicians where cracking jokes about opera is, you know, hilarious. In
fact, the screening I was in was filled with those with white hair.
It's not often that I feel out of place at a cinema, but I on this
occasion I did.

Quartet, as you probably know, features a stellar cast of older actors;
Maggie Smith and Tom Courtenay playing the reunited divorc√©es with a
history; Billy Connolly as a pottering and senile old tenor, cracking
double-entendres at every opportunity; and Pauline Collins, who in my
opinion steals the show, as the ditzy ex-opera singer. What follows is
an unashamedly predictable, but nevertheless solidly crafted and
amusing drama that wouldn't look out of place on a Sunday afternoon TV
slot. Minus the f-words, of course. Yes ,you can see its development
from a mile off, and it rarely addresses the more serious and harrowing
aspects of old-age as Haneke's 'Amour' did, but it's good natured, well
scripted and amusing fun.

It's all through the typical rose-tinted, Downton-esque portrayal of
Britain that we're all accustomed to, but with a cast like that and a
gentle, sweet story, it's hard not to be eventually won over by its
charm. I had a good time.
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly let me answer those who have stated that the senility was
over-acted for comic effect. IT WAS NOT. My mother worked in aged care
for many years, and I grew up with all this about me. It's exactly like
that. It was brilliantly done, all of it, all the actors... and wasn't
it a treat to see all the old opera and stage stars?

Some ''official'' critics, (and by the way, what exactly '?' qualifies
one to critique anything? I've seen more films than most of these
people, I'd guess), have said this film lacked the BIG moments. IT DID
NOT. The moments are there, you just have to know people - humanity.

It did lack being smacked over the head repeatedly with the
obvious...so I guess those bred on a diet of Hollywood(our viewers are
so stupid we must hand-hold all the way through and belabour the most
self evident details)MOVIES, aren't going to be thrilled or interested.
I was. I also like Alien and Predator movies, so it's not being said
with any sort of bias. If you liked Enchanted April, and The Whales of
August, The Grass Harp, and Miss Pettigrew Lives For a Day, you'll like
this a lot.
<|_=00=_|>
There are two obvious reasons to see this film. One is that it's Dustin
Hoffman's directing debut. The other is that any film with Billy
Connolly, Tom Courtenay, Maggie Smith and Michael Gambon is very
unlikely to be less than very good.

As it turns out, the film - set in a retirement home for classical
musicians - is simply perfect: touching and amusing from the start,
with generous but judicious doses of lovely music, shifting gears in an
in-obtrusively sure-footed way. Billy Connolly (who was once a presence
in my local hang-out) is about as close to his real self here as in any
part I've seen him play: ribald, mischievous and large-hearted; the
shameless jokester and flirt you nonetheless know you can always depend
on. Courtenay is heart-rendingly endearing from the start, in the most
quiet, under-stated way. Maggie Smith shows far more range than her
now- stock Grande Dame parts usually allow her, including an
unaccustomed vulnerability and a charming exercise, at one moment, of
calculated yet shy girlish charm.

As one would expect from a director who is a great actor himself, the
palette of characters here is vividly and colorfully incarnated by
actors who are often memorable even in the most minor parts.

The music is both respectfully and affectionately integrated
throughout, moving from noble classical pieces to a cheerful bit of
music hall. And is paid a surprising homage in the credits, which
continue the film's nod to age and accomplishment well past its not
very surprising but still satisfying end.

Very few viewers, by the way, will sense the echos here - but no more -
of a lovely French film from 1935 about a retirement home for actors:
"La Fin du Jour":

http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0031309/combined

Ronald Harwood ("The Pianist", "The Diving Bell and the Butterfly",
etc) tells a very different story, but anyone who enjoys this one and
understands enough French should certainly seek out the older film
(with the great Michel Simon).
<|_=00=_|>
Yesterday afternoon was pure joy because Diane and I watched Hoffman's
directorial d√©but of a delightful movie that showcases some of the best
in British acting. Superficially the subject matter would seem to be
less than enthralling: an old folk's home putting on an end of year
concert to raise money to keep the home working. Ha, the devil is in
the details and these details set the entire story on a different plane
of reality; this home is exclusively for retired concert musicians both
orchestral and operatic. The level of professional attainment means
that the audience for this "end of year finale" can attract people that
will pay Covent Garden prices to attend such a stellar concert. The
movie's casting is remarkable because the person that carries the show
is Billy Connelly who enlivens the interaction with staff and residents
to a degree that only his repartee can produce. Suffice it to say that
his banter means that, for an old guy like me, there is never a dull
spot in the movie. The drama is interjected by Maggie Smith who does it
with the aplomb for which she is known. I also think that Dustin
Hoffman did a remarkable job in this, his first, outing as a director.
Diane and I both believe that this is a hugely enjoyable movie and
should be seen by any person interested in the art of film making.
<|_=00=_|>
My daughters and I ventured into post-festive cinema experience, and
waded though queues of elderly people, obviously taking advantage of
the chance to see a film that they could relate to, the queen being the
only octogenarian known to leap from helicopters in this day and age.
What we found was that, despite the endless trailers and publicity,
there lurked a decent film, with skilled and talented cast and
beautiful music, in a splendid setting, telling a nice story. Because
that's what it is: a nice story. The various characters don't matter -
they were all executed with stunning reliability - and musical numbers
from Flanagan and Allen (no, Andrew Sachs was NOT either of those)via
the Mikado (three very unlikely little maids)to the quartet from
Rigoletto. The dialogue was witty and the moments thought-provoking.
Even the wealthy and famous have to age and die, but to be able to end
ones days in such surroundings must make it all worthwhile. Kudos to
Dustin Hoffman (but how hard could it have been?) and to all who worked
on what is ultimately a work of art.
<|_=00=_|>
After years of acting and two Oscars under his belt, Dustin Hoffman
finally takes a turn behind the camera in his directorial debut for
Quartet. 

Based on Ronald Harwood's play of the same name, the film takes place
at Beecham House, a home where retired opera singers Cissy (Pauline
Collins), Reginald (Tom Courtenay) and Wilf (Billy Connolly) live.
Formally part of a quartet, every year the three take part in a concert
to celebrate composer Giuseppe Verdi's birthday. But when Jean (Maggie
Smith), the fourth member of their group arrives at the seniors' home,
things get complicated. As she is the ex-wife of fellow member
Reginald, old rivalries, theatrical temperaments and drama evidently
ensues and it becomes unclear whether or not the show will go on.

While the film never gets any more drastic than this, it is
delightfully charming to see veteran actors Smith, Courtenay, Connolly
and Collins strut their stuff. With Smith perfectly playing the
slightly narcissistic queen bee of the group, even Michael Gambon makes
an appearance as the eccentric lead coordinator of the concert. But as
we see Courtenay's Reggie harbour old feelings for his ex-wife and
Collins play the lovable confidante Cissy, it's Connolly who steals the
show as the hilariously lustful Wilf.

Although there isn't much material to let the actors stretch their
acting capabilities, Quartet is a pleasure to watch. Although it pokes
fun at old age and shows the fears of becoming a has-been, it's the
performances by the film's legendary actors that make Hoffman's
endearing tale what it is.
