
I don't recall seeing a movie like this in a good, long time. It's a
macho-action-thriller that didn't have an A-list budget, but probably
didn't really need it, either. You used to see more of this back in the
70s and 80s; these days this kind of movie usually has a much bigger
budget, with the requisite special effects and massive action sequences
such a budget buys. Here, though, it's a little different.

Good action, intriguing setup (definitely no good-guy/bad-guy here;
nobody is completely innocent by any stretch), and pretty good
characters. And a story that's somewhat better than you usually find in
this particular kind of film.

Don't know that Jason Statham's a great actor, exactly, but he's
definitely a presence and he's got others to do the acting around him,
and he performs in a several action scenes that come right up to the
edge without getting silly. And I liked the basic plausibility in most
of the scenes.

I'm a guy, and Killer Elite is a pretty decent "guy" movie. You could
do worse.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm baffled by some of the reviews I've seen of this film. I saw it
this weekend and think it's really strong. Clive Owen and Jason Statham
are both excellent as... elite killers. The action is great, the story
is intricate and watching the plot unfold is just fun. You've got a
group of mercenaries on a dubious mission, a group of ex-SAS stumbles
on to them and then both sides are trying to figure out who the other
guys are and what they're up to. Maybe it throws some people that there
are no clear cut good guys and bad guys here. Both sides are
essentially bad guys acting out of a questionable sense of what is
right. But that's what made it interesting to me.

The film is at it's best when Owen and Statham are on screen together
either coming after each other, fighting or staring each other down.
Add a gun wielding, ass kicking De Niro into the mix and I'm happy
sitting in a dark theater and munching popcorn.
<|_=00=_|>
I sensed what the movie-making powers that be were thinking when they
made this movie: Take 3 action stars + 1 super hot blonde = money.
Simple enough of a formula to get people in the theaters. My
expectations were not that high for this film. But what I found
reminded me of a "Bourne Identity" feel for some odd reason, but with
more action and less suspense. Injecting the film with reality was
Yvonne Strahovski, who made the story believable. I did like the whole
1980 thing the movie had going on as well, which some of these reviews
might've missed when they watched the film.

There are many memorable moments, none of which I'm going to tell you.

One of two issues I had with the film is the distance I felt with the
characters. They felt close to each other on screen, but not close to
me(if that makes any sense). I could've used 5 or 10 minutes getting to
know the characters a bit better. Halfway through the film I realized I
had forgotten all the character's names, and it was all facial
recognition. Secondly, I could have used a bit more humor. I guess when
making movies on real events it's hard to get a good laugh without
coming off corny. I think they missed an opportunity there with Yvonne
Strahovski's character.

I would've given this movie 7 stars, but it didn't seem right
considering just how much enjoyment I got out of it and such a solid
performance of the actors.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure what it was about Killer Elite that disappointed me, but
it just didn't seem to live up to its potential. It might have been
that the movie relied on Jason Statham to act, instead of just do
action. He plays a retired hit man who gets pulled out of retirement to
save a friend's life. But it just doesn't work, he's unconvincing. The
retirement isn't convincing and neither is his reluctance to return to
work. He was much better in the Mechanic which dealt with similar
issues.

Overall the movie doesn't hold together very well. There is too much
that they are trying to accomplish, but not enough gets developed. For
instance, the romance between Danny (Statham) and Anne (Yvonne
Strahovski) just seems to be cut in to the movie in a few places. The
Feathermen (the group about whom the book the movie draws from is
written) appear in a few scenes, yet they're role is barely explored.
They are spliced in just enough to give Spike (Clive Owen) a support
system.

It's not a terrible movie, but it could have been much more. I think it
would make a better mini-series, so that the different parts could be
explored properly. If not, eliminate the things that aren't given
justice.
<|_=00=_|>
Decent acting from the supporting cast, an interesting story that is
thankfully absent any clich√©s, and a lack of any "gotcha" in the story
certainly help this movie stand out. But really it's the pacing that
made it for me. Things happen FAST. They happen logically, and
reasonably (well, reasonably given the nature of the story) but they
happen quickly. The movie does not have any periods of introspection
for our main characters. It suggests that they are having those
moments, but doesn't linger on them or play them up at all; they are
just facts, like everything else that happens in the movie (fights,
deaths, kidnappings, etc.).

The story is complicated, involving at least 5 separately motivated
factions, but at no time was it confusing (so there was no need for an
"aha!" moment).

The fight scenes were all exceedingly well choreographed and fit the
story so well that there was never a time when 2 people were facing off
just so we could see them fight; I really appreciated that.

All in all, a very satisfying film: lots of action, lots of very good
acting, and lots of attention to detail (it really looked like it was
the early 1980s).

I was going to give this a 7/10, but as I was writing and thinking
about it, I upped it to 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Thoroughly entertaining and full of action much like Statham's
"Transporter" flicks except the plot is quite a bit more sophisticated
involving kidnapping and revenge killings by an Arab sheik, unexpected
double crosses and amazing chases, fights and escape sequences with a
gritty European/British flair and ambiance similar to "Taken". 

The one thing I didn't like is a lot of the fight scenes are shot
frenetically hand held and close up with very few pulled back master
shots so you can see the choreography and tricky Krav Maga style self
defense maneuvers similar to what was depicted in Statham's first
"Transporter" movie which was the best out of the series IMO in this
regard. 

I mean I kept asking during the "Killer Elite" fight sequences..."What
did he just do to that guy? I couldn't see it! Dang it!" instead of
"Did you see what he did?! That's amazing!" 

Oh well, at least I enjoyed this one more than "MoneyBall".
<|_=00=_|>
STAR RATING: ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning
** Sunday Night * Monday Morning 

Set in 1980, Killer Elite is based on a true story, revolving around
SAS agent Danny (Jason Statham) who owes everything to his friend and
mentor Hunter (Robert De Niro.) So when he is taken hostage in Oman,
Danny is forced to co-operate with the kidnappers demands: that the
three soldiers responsible for the death of his son are hunted down
around the globe and killed. But even when he goes through with the
mission, he finds, as well as having to contend with the relentless
Agent Spike (Clive Owen) that not everything is as it seems.

Holding true to it's claim of being a story spinning all round the
globe, Killer Elite literally dashes with hyperactive energy from the
deserts of the Middle East to the Australian outback, to European
cities like Paris and London, all the while holding it's accolade of
being a true story. But then fact is often stranger than fiction, and
the exploits of Britain's elite special forces could no doubt throw up
even stranger tales.

This is a slick, stylish enough film, that carries off it's various
action sequences and tense moments with the requisite style and aplomb,
even if it doesn't generate the amount of suspense it could have and
the whole thing does feel a tad disjointed and sporadic. 

Performances wise, Statham is simply the reliable sturdy action hero,
while De Niro in support commandeers another generic performance and
Owen as the adversary can resort back to his old wooden ways. Not a lot
to write home about on that front, then, but thankfully it's not a film
driven by this aspect and so the more superficial stuff that carries it
through.

It's a messy, chaotic, sketchy and unbelievable (even for something
based on a true story) film, but entertaining and enthralling enough to
be well worth a watch. ***
<|_=00=_|>
I do try to rate films based on their relative quality to other movies
from the same genre and on that scale, Killer Elite was almost perfect.
Of course, expectations come into play as well, and I had expected yet
another Jason Statham implausible action extravaganza and it wasn't
that. Instead I got a realistic experience, a complex story, a great
cast and good acting all around.

The plot revolves around Statham's character, a hired killer who
decides to get out of the business. Of course, that cannot stand, and a
slightly ridiculous premise puts him in the game again. Robert de Niro
and Dominic Purcell are in his team, while Clive Owen plays for the
others. But who are the others? What exactly is going on? What happened
with the British SAS in the Oman war?

Bottom line: a political thriller this is not, but there is enough
intrigue to make it all interesting. The action sequences are well done
and realistic. The fact that it all happens in the 80's gives it even
more grit. What I found even nicer is that both de Niro and Statham act
better than they did in a long time. Good job!
<|_=00=_|>
Robert DeNiro was the greatest actor of his generation. He brought a
new intensity to method acting during the New Hollywood era of American
film making . His star started fading in the early 1990s and by the
turn of the century critics would be scratching their heads as DeNiro
would appear in cameo roles in films that would surely have gone
straight to video . Why he did this no one knew . It certainly couldn't
have been to do with the simple reason of money but his prolific small
appearances in sub standard movies has long ceased to be a joke and has
affected his legacy . KILLER ELITE continues this career legacy suicide

There's something ridiculous watching a a 68 year old DeNiro getting in
to a shoot out with bad guys but ridiculous doesn't even begin to
describe KILLER ELITE a thriller based on a " true story" by former SAS
soldier , explorer and adventurer Sir Ranulph Fiennes . Apparently in
the early 1980s an Arab sheik upset that his son was killed by the SAS
during the battle of Mirbat wants revenge .

The battle of Mirbat has passed in to British military folklore where a
9 man SAS team deserted by 40 Omani soldiers had to fight off 300
communist guerrillas in Oman circa 1972 . This battle is proved fact
and Fiennes would have had more credibility if he'd presented his
source novel The Feather Men as fiction . As it stands he was disowned
by the regiment and journalists had a field day pointing out the
unlikely occurrences in the novel . Of course many of the details can't
be disproved but that's often the point of people publishing books that
are fiction masquerading as fact. It should be remembered DeNiro also
made a cameo in SLEEPERS another film based on a true life story that
was quickly debunked 

Watching a film based on a true story where you believe it to be
fiction is a very irritating experience . Much of the selling point of
this type of movie is that it happened in reality but you feel you're
watching a cinematic adaptation of one of those books you buy at an
airport while you have a very long plane journey in front of you .
That's the impression I got while watching the film - a sort of pot
boiler with guns , guys and car chases If the premise itself is
irritatingly unconvincingso are the accents . This is a Hollywood
/Australian co-production which means many of the actors are Aussies
putting on English accents . Much of it is almost certainly filmed in
Australia but I will restrain myself from using the word " obviously "
because the director often uses establishing shots as a close up .
Likewise action sequences are shot in close up too trying - and utterly
failing - to convince the audience that the action is taking place in
Britain . In fact when you do fleetingly see a sequence shot in Wales
it jumps out at you because it's in long shot 

This is a very disappointing thriller and much of this is down to the
original source which exists more in the mind of the author rather than
the real world . Even so if it had been promoted as a generic fictional
revenge thriller it would have probably been criticised as being a rip
off from Tom Clancey or the Bourne movies
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is first-rate entertainment. It is one of the better action
movies. Jason Statham and Clive Owen are great as operatives who try to
out-fox each other, taking them all over the world. As for Robert
DeNiro, he is, as usual, great. Although he's in a supporting role, his
presence definitely adds to the movie's entertainment value. Yet the
best feature of the movie is the story, which is clever,
straightforward, and engages the audience. This movie has an unusual
plot in that one is never certain who are the good guys and the bad
guys. In fact, by the end of the movie, that question is still
unanswered but by then it really doesn't matter because the story is
more than just about good versus bad.
