
Can a horror remake actually be a good for a change? I mean, how many
classic horror flicks does Hollywood have to crap on until they finally
give up? "Texas Chainsaw Massacre", "Amityville Horror", "Nightmare on
Elm St.", "Friday the 13th", "House of Wax".......all of these films
are examples of why i sometimes HATE Hollywood.

Finally......a horror remake that's WORTH seeing. I must admit, i had
some pretty low expectations walking into this, and it did way more
than prove me wrong. Initially i thought they were going to make this a
straight 'B' movie by incorporating tons of humor with their gore,
which would have been fine with me, seeing that i love the genre'. But
this movie was more fun than funny. Don't get me wrong, there are some
sequences that are funny, but it had more of that 'drive-in' appeal to
it's horror. And i loved every bit of it.

It's story is pretty basic, and somewhat cliché'. I mean come on, a
vampire living next door. But the weird thing is, it didn't come off as
cliché'. And i think the biggest contribution to that was the pace of
the film. Once you get past the first 10 to 15 minutes of the film,
which are kind of dull, the movie quickly begins to morph into a fast
paced gore fest. And now looking back on it......if it were not rated
R, then this movie would have been stupid, and it would've fit in with
every other crummy horror remake.

But the aspect that i appreciated the most was the writing. For once,
they didn't alter any rules to make their film different. They stuck
with what already works, and left it up to the actors to make these
vampire rules entertaining. And Collin Farrell did just that.

Bottom Line.....Of all the horror movies that come out this year, this
will probably be the one you will have the most fun at. It's funny,
it's somewhat scary, but most of all, it's pretty damn entertaining.
It's one of those movies i would've loved to of seen at the drive-in.
If your tired of all this 'Twilight' crap, which they happen to mention
in the movie itself, then this is really a breathe of fresh air to all
the TRUE vampire fans.
<|_=00=_|>
It has occurred to me that when people refer to a new "reimagining" of
a beloved film, they use the term "unnecessary remake." I've been
guilty of that myself. I really tend to think, however, that
technically any remake is unnecessary. No one "needs" to be told what
is basically the same story (in most cases) twice. I've also heard the
argument that bad films are the ones that should be remade, not good
ones. I can understand that to an extent, but do people really want to
sit through a new version of something they hated the first time? No
remake is going to make everyone happy; it's just not possible. Unless
of course, you haven't SEEN the original.

So, just how should a remake be judged? As a stand-alone film, or how
it compares to a previous one we love so much? And I do love
writer-director Tom Holland's 1985 vampire flick FRIGHT NIGHT. It is
just the right mix of comedy, terror, suspense, terrific performances,
and an affection for old-fashioned scares. Many others have fond
memories of it as well, so I relate to the "why"s and the "oh don't
screw it up"s, and the "leave it alone"s. After all, beloved films are
dumped on all the time by would-be filmmakers out to make a quick buck
for the safe Hollywood studios.

Most of the central story is intact: Anton Yelchin leads the cast as
Charley Brewster, a used-to-be high-school misfit who comes to the
realization, thanks to childhood buddy Ed (Christopher Mintz-Plasse)
that his new neighbor Jerry (Colin Farrell) is a vampire. It isn't long
before he's convinced his single mother (Toni Collette) and his
girlfriend (Imogen Poots) of this discovery...at which point all sorts
of bloody hell breaks loose.

Screenwriter Marti Noxon has infused a basic story (whose plot points
and situations weren't always very believable) with some new smarts,
including adding more depth to the central characters. And the setting
has changed to a cookie-cutter suburb of Las Vegas, where people sleep
during the day, work at night, and are much more transient. Another
interesting change is the character of Peter Vincent. In the original,
Roddy McDowall played a hammy horror host and actor: Peter Vincent, the
Great Vampire Killer. Here, David Tennant assumes the role, but Vincent
has become an elaborate Vegas magician who performs vampire-killing
antics on the stage. In both versions, they are recruited by our hero
to help slay the bloodsucker. It's an ultra- modern twist, but within
the location context, works beautifully.

During the first hour or so of 2011's new incarnation, I was shocked to
think that I may end up liking this remake even more than the original.
But after some hair-raising moments in the first half, culminating in a
dark, desert car chase, the film threatens to go off the rails in a
sequence that's a bit hokey, over the top, and unfortunately timed. And
there are a few iffy CGI instances as well. Luckily, things get back on
track with a climax that's executed with a uniquely creepy wit, and a
few good shocks and surprises. Director Craig Gillespie (LARS AND THE
REAL GIRL, "United States of Tara") earns respect for pulling off (for
him) an unfamiliar genre; he also pays homage to a few memorable scenes
in the original without trying to copy or disrespect them.

Most of the performances are engaging and authentic (aside from
Mintz-Plasse in his later moments), with Tennant's wry turn a real
treat, and the ever-wonderful Collette's naturally grounding presence
adding a needed weight of normalcy. It is Farrell, however, who is the
real deal; he absolutely nails this role (no, he won't make you forget
the original's suave Chris Sarandon, but in fairness, Jerry is written
much differently in this update). Farrell combines sexiness and utter
menace to the fullest: this vamp means business! Some of the best work
of his admittedly spotty career is on display, including the film's
most brilliant moment, where Jerry's fidgety impatience with being
invited into the Brewster home is both hilarious and nerve-wracking.

FRIGHT NIGHT is a solid film in its own right; if there's not enough
love from the original's fans to spread out to its remake, that's
unfortunate.
<|_=00=_|>
The original Fright Night was already a cult classic which makes this
remake unnecessary. But since all vampires these days are less scary
and like what Evil Ed said "Love Sick", it can be necessary for some
reason. Bringing back the true vampire camp. Although it's not as scary
as the original but Colin Farrel's performance improves the vampire
villain. This Fright Night is endlessly watchable and fun. This may
sound strange but I think this version is better than the original.

The original have the disturbing schlocky masks but this version
actually has the vampire danger and thrills. The credit goes to Colin
Farrel. He gives a lot of vigor and terror to the evil vampire. David
Tennant has his own Peter Vincent. His charisma and delight shines
through all of his scenes. Just like Roddy McDowall, David Tennant
nearly steals the show. But Farrel really owns this show.

It's a welcome back, actually. It's not a cash in remake. It's the
returning of the vampire horror to our cinemas. Our vampire movies
these days are just tired and relies to nothing but the senseless
violence. And some of them are in love with a bland girl and sparkle in
sunlight. But the biggest thing that is missing in most modern vampire
movies is how scary these monsters are. They are not only bloodsuckers.
They can be terrifying for somehow.

The filmmaking is obviously good but some of the CGI tones the scares
down a little bit but it works though. The score sounds nothing like
the score of the original but it's true to its vampire genre. The movie
is shot in 3D but most of the film is dark and 3D usually dims the
aspect of a film but if you are in for some blood and sparks coming out
of the screen then try it. Not quite recommending though.

Overall, Fright Night is enjoyable. Maybe the biggest mistake they made
is the jump scares since Fright Night isn't really fond to that trend.
Well, this is definitely better than all the unnecessary horror remakes
we usually get every year. Colin Farrel made a lot of things better.
Vampires are evil again. It has plenty of joys and thrills. Fright
Night is recommendable by bringing back the true elements of the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
Remaining in the same vein as many recent horror outings, "Fright
Night" is more of an eerie action comedy than a straight-out scare
fest. Good. That's my favorite type, especially considering scares in
and of themselves hardly garner a pull anymore. Also, with a title like
"Fright Night," we have an understanding with the filmmakers that we're
getting one of those throwback horror flicks. You know, the ones that
gave the horror genre that fun movie-going reputation it had in the
80′s before tasteless gore and tiresome predictability defiled the
genre? This film succeeds on that promise, quickly turning itself into
the quintessential "fun" horror flick perfect for Friday night.

Styled after Alfred Hitchcock's "Rear Window" (which inspired its own
modern retelling, "Disturbia") with a suave vampire living next-door
instead of a mysterious stranger, this plot is very similar to its
original. Charley Brewster (Anton Yelchin; "Star Trek") is a ex-nerd
who has joined 'the cool crowd,' dropping his oldest friend "Evil" Ed
(Christopher Mintz-Plasse; "Kick-Ass") for a hot cheerleader girlfriend
(Imogen Poots; "28 Weeks Later"). Things are looking oh-so-grand for
the little flake (I mean, come on, any guy who hurtfully tells his
friend "the day my life got better was the day I stopped hanging with
you" is well a douche), he gets a new next-door neighbor that his mom
(Toni Collette; "The Sixth Sense") takes a liking to: Jerry Dandrige
(Colin Farrell; "Horrible Bosses"). Now Jerry seems like a cool guy,
but as we all know, you don't cast Colin Farrell to be your average
next-door neighbor. Ed's attempts to convince Charley that Jerry is
actually a vampire fail, but when Ed himself goes missing and Jerry
shows proof of what he is, Charley goes to the only person who might
have the answer: Peter Vincent (David Tennant; "Doctor Who"), the Las
Vegas magician who boasts of supernatural knowledge on how to kill
vampires.

The choice to modernize the original 1985 "Fright Night" doesn't like
that bright an idea considering the current rule that all horror
remakes suck, but somehow this became a unique effort due to diligent
actors, a reliable director, and successful laugh and scare gags. It
is, without exaggeration, the first great entry in the long line of
atrocious horror remakes. It takes what we liked about the original and
comes up some clever changes that update the story 26 years to the
present.

From an ingenious kill method at the end to wickedly suspenseful chase
scenes, "Fright Night" boasts some surprisingly memorable scenes  some
of which are incredibly suspenseful considering we think we should know
what to expect from a vampire thriller. The opening is a startling 3D
shot through dark thunderclouds that ends in an impeccably-executed
family massacre. With Craig Gillespie's (the outstanding director of
"Lars and the Real Girl") imaginative direction and Ramin Djawadi's
(scorer of "Iron Man" and "Mr. Brooks") jarringly effective and wholly
memorable musical score, the film hits all the beats it strives for
with manic zeal.

The all-star cast deliver a gratifying romp of suspense and chuckles,
but the movie belongs to its villain and its anti-hero, Colin Farrell
and David Tennant. The rest give solid performances (especially
Mintz-Plasse), but they pale compared to the main act.

Colin Farrell, when given the opportunity, revels in the grittiness of
villainy whenever he can. For Jerry Dandrige, Farrell is at an all-time
evil high and unchains his dark side. Part Hannibal Lector in his
charming menace and part Buffalo Bill in his vicious brutality, Farrell
carves himself a sweetly unpredictable part filled with great moments
(from his menacing way of asking for a six-pack of beer to his ultimate
way of overstepping house invitation rules to a great moment where his
decision to do absolutely nothing produces far worse results).

The fascinating part about Jerry is he isn't like regular vampires. He
seems more inspired by the worst of modern serial killers than mythical
killing machines, with his secret torture rooms and closet full of
dozens of uniforms signifying authority (from firemen to the post
office to the police). He's modern without being "Twilight." He's a
ominous hulking mass. Those characteristics mixed together with his
bizarre personality create a rather unique Hollywood vampire. Due to
this, I wish the "transformation" to full-on vampire face was never
included, as it is poor CGI and takes away from Farrell's menace.

David Tennant, who I will admit I adore as the 10th Doctor Who, is a
cinematic gem. His acting style has always been that of a Shakespearean
extremist, and I can't think of a better role that has such obvious
wicked glee in allowing him to let loose. There is something strangely
mesmerizing in Tennant's scenes as the vulgar
magician-turned-vampire-killer, especially in his first big scene where
his vehemence and wide-eyed enthusiasm is outstandingly exaggerated.
Also, seeing him acting with a giant shotgun is way more fun than I
expected it to be. He's about as entertaining  if not more so  than
the performance given by Roddy McDowall.

In the end, what really matters about this movie? Is the movie
suspenseful and thrilling? Yes, especially when Jerry really is allowed
to let loose his menacing charm and kill with the same love of general
violence of a "Reservoir Dogs" character. Is the movie funny when it
tries to be? Absolutely. The pop culture references  especially in a
crack on "Twilight" and comparing Jerry to the shark from "Jaws"  work
particularly well. This is a huge amount of fun. So if you walk into
this expecting the right kind of movie, "Fright Night" is that perfect
Friday night scare.
<|_=00=_|>
Somewhat mildly entertaining, but compared to other recent horror films
like Incidious, this movie is about as scary as an episode of Wizards
Of Waverly Place.

Most remakes suck, that's just reality, and this fails to disprove it.

The original, which was by no means a Lost Boys, was, for the time, a
seamless blend of horror, comedy, superb (but now outdated) special
effects, and a new wave soundtrack to fit the time and place the film
was made. It was as creepy and campy as the 60's and 70's Hammer Horror
films which it pays homage as well as making fun of.

But, beyond that, the original had a solid story line, with multiple
characters with multiple motives. 

Gone is the creepy "Evil" Ed who, despite being a horror fan, refuses
to believe Charlie that his next door neighbor is a vampire. In his
place is another one-note performance by a character who serves more as
wallpaper and who is a sad joke when he turns vampire

Gone is the charming and subtle Jerry Dangridge and instead we have a
single-note boring one dimensional Collin Ferral who spends the entire
film walking with heavy footsteps and hissing like a cat. 

Gone is Danridge's zombie day-time protector who added an even greater
dimension of story layers replaced by, well, nothing.

Gone is the charming Peter Vincent a cowardly tired old B-movie star
who faces his fears to become a hero, replaced by yet another
one-dimensional ex-Dr. Who.

And perhaps most important of the omissions of this boring life-less
remake is that of the big creepy decrepit American-Gothic old mansion
in the heart of suburbia (like a tiny virus, and a metaphor for the
vampire, which goes on to be so many other metaphors I can't list them
all here).

The original is dated, no freaking duh! Because it captured the essence
of the time (date) and place it was created. The remake fails to even
be dated because the sets and atmosphere are so lifeless this film
could have been made anywhere between 1990 and now.

The original is a "cult film" and so, by definition, it only has a
small cult of fanatics, so, if you don't get why the original is so
beloved then you're in majority of people who just don't get it.

20 years from now this sad remake will be sitting in the Walmart $5.00
bin, cast aside by all those but Collin Farrel fans.

P.S. the computer animated blood splashes are horrible, they look like
mid 90's effects. Also, where's the remake of Brad Fiedel's "Come To
Me" which was in the original as well as it's sequel? They must have
been crazy not to put an update of that in the film. It's up there with
Bela Lugosi's Dead and Cry Little Sister. Oh, and one finally little
update: Imagine Poots IS actually very hot and a wonderful actress as
was Amanda Bearse at the time.
<|_=00=_|>
Twenty-six years ago, "Fright Night" premiered in theaters and went on
to become a fondly remembered title amongst horror fans. The movie
cleverly combined horror and humor to create a fresh take on the
vampire and teen horror genres which had started to grow stale. While
the movie spawned a largely forgettable direct to video sequel, the
original film has remained popular over the years. So, when I first
heard that they were planning on remaking the film I was skeptical as I
felt it would be very difficult to match the original film.

Boasting an impressive cast which includes Anton Yelchin, Colin
Farrell, David Tennant, Christopher Mintz-Plasse, and Toni Collette,
the remake does not try to reinvent the wheel, but instead takes the
formula of the original and creates an entirely new entry into the
saga.

For those unfamiliar with the series, Yelchin stars as Charlie
Brewster, a young man who is trying to balance watching over his single
mother, and his growing relationship with a girl way out of his league
named Amy (Imogen Poots). He is also wrestling with becoming part of a
cooler crowd at the cost of alienating his geeky former best friend,
Ed, played by Christopher Mintz-Plasse. 

Colin Farrell plays the handsome and suave new next door neighbor who
easily charms Charlie's mom, played by Toni Colette. Unbeknownst to his
neighbors, the charming and charismatic Jerry, played by Colin Ferrell,
is actually a vampire who's come to their Las Vegas suburb to continue
his nighttime hunts. Ed has become suspicious of the recent
disappearances in their community and confides to Charlie that he's had
Jerry under surveillance and knows that he is a vampire.

Needless to say this does not sit well with Charlie, who distances
himself further from Ed. But when Ed goes missing, Charlie decides to
do some investigating of his own. Charlie turns to a local Vegas
performance artist named Peter Vincent (David Tennant), whose
vampire-themed show portrays him as an expert in fighting the undead.
While at first skeptical over Charlie's claims, a few devastating
confrontations with Jerry and his minions forces Vincent to rethink his
role. The two unlikely allies soon find themselves in a deadly race
against time to defeat Jerry and save their loved ones before it's too
late.

The film cleverly combines horror and comedy and does a good job of
providing some suspenseful moments in between the blood and gore,
managing to squeeze in more than a few laughs along the way. While not
overly scary, the visual effects work is solid and aside from the
converted 3-D is a really enjoyable to watch. The film would've been
much better had it been shot in 3-D or simply left as a 2-D film as the
conversion really didn't offer anything of value as is often the case
in these lab converted efforts.

The cast works very well with one another and Farrell cheekily
introduces a few new wrinkles to the vampire lore. I really enjoyed
David Tennant's performance and should they do a sequel I certainly
hope that they bring him back. Anton Yelchin gives a reliable
performance but I was surprised that Christopher Mintz-Plasse did not
have a bigger role but he does have some memorable moments in the film.
What really impressed me was that the film did not attempt to do a
shot-by-shot remake of the original but instead took the premise of the
original and offered a fresh take that easily could have been issued as
the third chapter in the series rather than a reboot. While there were
nods to the original, outside of the premise it was very much its own
film.

The film is not going to set any high marks for new standards in horror
nor is the plot fresh and original. It simply knows what its target
audience and source material are and sets a course right down the
middle without attempting to deviate too much one way or another.
"Fright Night" just might be perfect for those looking for a dose of
nostalgia and some highly suspenseful, fun entertainment.

Three stars out of five
<|_=00=_|>
Tom Holland's 1985 vampire romp "Fright Night" was a fun, campy little
horror flick that had some good laughs, good scares, and some pretty
awesome effects. Soon enough, the movie developed its cult fan base. In
the end, I find the original "Fright Night" to be one of the most
underrated horror films of the 80's.

Frankly, I was actually quite excited for this remake, knowing that it
had a great cast and Marti Noxon(who commonly wrote for "Buffy the
Vampire Slayer") was at the helm of the script. I personally don't mind
remakes. Some people take them way too seriously. Of course, there are
some that fail, but a lot of them work really well. The 2011 edition of
"Fright Night" works! 

Set in a beautiful suburban area of Las Vegas, the movie introduces us
to Charley Brewster, a nerdy but charismatic teenager who we find out
has given up his relationship with his friend "Evil" Ed to be with the
cooler kids, including his hot new girlfriend Amy. Then he meets Jerry
Dandrige, a buff, sweet new neighbor that Charley's mom and Amy take a
liking to. When Ed tries to warn Charley of Jerry's hidden, and
gruesome, intentions, things take a turn for the worse. More people
wind up missing, and it becomes evident to Charley that Jerry is a
vampire. Nobody believes him before it's too late, and it's up to him
and Hard Rock celebrity Peter Vincent to kill this sucker(pun intended)
once and for all.

While it pays so much respect to the original movie, "Fright Night"
also adds a few new elements that elevate it above other remakes. There
are some scenes that are lifted right from the original, even two of
the original's most classic lines, but the movie breaks several horror
movie rules and invents new ones, like whether or not a vampire can
come into another person's house.

The CGI effects in this remake are surprisingly quite good. I didn't
see the film in 3D(which I heard doesn't do much for the movie), but in
its 2D format, the geysers of blood shoot out magnificently without
going over the top, and the makeup is true to the original vampire look
in the 1985 film.

"Fright Night" boasts a fantastic cast of well-known actors. Anton
Yelchin, as always, does a great job and fits the role of Charley
perfectly. Toni Collette stands out as Charley's mother, and Imogen
Poots is terrific as Amy. Unlike other horror blonds, the script allows
Amy to be smart, and at times brave enough to try to take down Jerry
herself. Also, Ms. Poots is an awesome screamer. Christopher Mintz-
Plasse is great for the role of "Evil" Ed, and he was born to play that
role in this remake. He gets some pretty funny lines and an enjoyable
amount of screen time. David Tennant, known for starring in the recent
TV revival of "Doctor Who," takes over from Roddy McDowall as Peter
Vincent, and makes for a funny vision of the character.

And then there's Colin Farrell as Jerry. Don't get me wrong. The cast
is wonderful. But Farrell eats his role up and nearly steals the show.
Sometimes, he doesn't have to do anything, and he still creeps you out.
One particular scene in which he has a conversation with Charley sets
the character up to be quite fearful. This is not a "Twilight" vampire
that Farrell creates. This is a "rip your throat out with no regrets"
monster that is impossible not to be freaked out by. Basically, Colin
Farrell bathes in his role like the character bathes in human blood.

Marti Noxon's script is clever, funny, and smart, and by the looks of
other recent horror outings, it's a script that's better than it should
be.

I'll just say that "Fright Night" is not particularly scary. But it's
all about the entertainment here. The movie doesn't need to be scary.
It's a horror-comedy that allows some good shocks with some great
laughs. The original was always on the border of becoming too funny,
but it stayed on its feet and kept the horror going. The remake does
just that. It's carefully made and done with love for its source
material. But otherwise, you can tell that director Craig
Gillespie("Lars and the Real Girl"), his cast, and his screenwriter had
a ball making this movie. The nostalgia factor is high here, bringing
us a combination of both 80's and 90's horror. If you loved "The Lost
Boys" and the original 1985 flick, you will surprisingly love 2011's
"Fright Night." I welcome it with open arms, and I'm glad I got to see
it. Welcome to Fright Night...FOR REAL! 

P.S. For those of you who saw the original, you get an unbelievable
cameo.
<|_=00=_|>
then be prepared to think it's not cool anymore. Everything happens
within the first 10 minutes; McLovin' gets killed and we're shown that
Colin Farrell is in fact a vampire. After this, my friend and I
literally turned to each other and said, "What?". Obviously I knew he
was a vampire from the previews, but why did they give it up so fast?
The story isn't centered on him, it's centered on the kid, Charley,
trying to beat him. So shouldn't we have some sort of suspense or
surprise in that area? Like finding out he's a vampire when Charley
does? Also, the dialogue is so awkward. I heard pity laughs in the
theater. The way Charley's "cool" friends talked was so forced and
out-of-date. It's over-the-top cliché teen speak that's never actually
been used by teens. And his conversations with McLovin' were dull and
awkward and didn't have any sort of real-ness or even movie-ness in
them. It was stale banter.

In terms of story, it would have been 50% better had they stuck to the
conventions. It was just so incoherent and un-relatable (we ARE
supposed to be able to relate to it even though it's about vampires)
They (the writers) should have kept McLovin' alive, and had him
convince Charley that Jerry (Colin Farrell) is a vampire. And Jerry
should have at least tried to hide it, instead of gallivanting around
killing people the second he moved into the neighborhood. It would have
been more fun to see their attempts to uncover Jerry and beat him at
his own game. Rather than having no room for the audiences' imagination
and guesswork. It wasn't an adventure at all. McLovin's character was
one of the most entertaining in the movie. It would have been more fun
to see him and Charley's dynamic (although a cliché one; enthusiastic
believer vs in-denial non-believer) grow. Because that was the only
chance the story had for there to be an interesting dynamic. Charley vs
Jerry was very clear-cut and out in the open, except for the maybe 10
minutes of screen time where he has to hide it from his mother and
girlfriend. Overall, it wasn't as cool as it seemed in the previews.
The tone nor mood really matched up. Plus there's a ridiculous "vampire
slayer" (not in the 'so corny that it's funny' way, more in the 'so
dumb that it's dumb way') who decides at last minute to help Charley. I
think that part was written for Russell Brand or something. It was
awful.

The movie had potential though. Being set in a desert suburb of Las
Vegas made it kind of cozy and undertoned the isolation of the
neighborhood. However, the story just fell apart and there were
awkwardly placed scenes with his mother at the end of the movie that
didn't "wrap things up" the way it was meant to, and instead made us
think something was about to happen to his mother. It didn't play on
expectations like it could have. In fact, its lack thereof lead it to
falsely create expectations that were never met.

Oh well.
<|_=00=_|>
I was able to see this movie tonight at a preview screening at Disney
Studios and I was pleasantly surprised. The actors all did a great job
in their respective parts, I think Colin Farrell was a perfect choice
to play the bad guy, and he is bad, He hardly even tries to hide it in
the movie. I really enjoyed Imogen Poots, in the first movie I've
noticed her, she played a wonderful range of emotions and gave our hero
something worthwhile to fight for. However, for my money, David Tennant
stole the show in a role that I wish was larger, but didn't need to be
to serve the purpose of the film. He did a wonderful job not playing
The Doctor so many of us have come to know and love him for, and yet he
was just as enjoyable as a magician with a drinking problem. I would
say the only weak spot in the cast was Christopher Mintz-Plasse, and
it's not eve his fault. He just did such a unique job playing
"Mclovin'" that even when his head is half off and he's trying to bite
his friend, all I see is Mclovin'. I don't see this as an issue that
Christopher can solve, but I am glad studios are giving him a chance to
do so.

They use of 3-D was also well done. This film has nothing on
Transformers 3 in that area, but it still managed to use it, without
over-using it.

The script at times could have used as little toning, or maybe just
some improv on the set to make it more realistic.

All in all, I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and would recommend it to
anyone that enjoyed Hot Fuzz, Shaun of The Dead, or
Zombieland...Excellent balance of humor and horror which added up to a
great popcorn film.

8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Dull, pointless, and charmless remake of a good-natured, mildly amusing
film from the '80s. The 2011 Fright Night aims low and misses. The 3-D,
featuring spattered blood, shattered glass and sparks, is more
distracting than necessary. Jerry, the vampire-next-door, is not an
original or distinctive adversary despite Farrell's appeal. Jerry does
little to hide his unnatural existence, doesn't put his supernatural
powers to any real use, and there is only a sketchy explanation of how
this creature lives and dies. Plot points never amount to anything, the
editing is often confusing, and the actions and reactions of the
characters aren't convincing. Why doesn't the nerd attack his former
tormentors with his vampiric powers? Why doesn't the family call the
police when the vampire begins tearing up their yard? Virtually every
character was shown using a wireless device in the first 15 minutes of
the film. And why drive pointlessly into the desert to escape, and then
call 911 at a place where you can't get service!? You may also wonder
why a vampire would move into a neighborhood with houses one right next
to the other. Long, noisy, fiery battles with creatures coming out of
the earth are apparently ignored by neighbors who live within a stone's
throw; the police and firefighters never show. The leads are dreary and
flat, and since nearly everyone is clueless there's nothing at stake.
