
My hopes were high for this movie. The War between Georgia and South
Ossetia/Russia in August of 2008 would seem to be a great background to
a well-plotted, carefully crafted film that captures all the intrigue
of the Caucasus. Since the Caucasus have always been a nest of ethnic
divisions, political double-dealing and vicious banditry I would think
any decent screenwriter and director could piece together a fairly
intense thriller, I was so wrong. 5 Days of War is a twisted train
wreck of special effects laden action and blatant propaganda with a
parade of terrible acting. This film was disappointing on many levels.
About 40 minutes into the film I realized I was watching a $20,000,000
piece of pro-Georgian anti-Russian propaganda. If anyone does a little
research on this war they will clearly see that both sides committed
illegal acts under international law. Georgia is actually blamed for
triggering the war by using heavy artillery on a city unprovoked which
killed civilians, Russian Peacekeepers and damaged large tracts of the
city. Once the war began some Ossetia militias fighting with the
Russians committed acts of ethnic cleansing and were not stopped by the
Russian Military or Government. Shame on them and shame on Georgia for
bombarding a city. I do not have a dog in this fight, I think that the
problems of that part of the world should be answered by the countries
and governments of that region. It is obvious that the filmmakers feel
that we should clearly be supporting Georgia with their charismatic
leader Mikheil Saakashvili played by Andy Garcia who is portrayed as a
Georgian Thomas Jefferson or JFK. Why the hell did they use Andy Garcia
anyway? This movie does nothing to help the outsider with the
complexities of the actual situation. I want to know what the target
audience was for the filmmakers. I was insulted by this film. Why would
they take such a complex and historical subject and simplify it down to
this? Westerners are natural allies of the peace-loving, compassionate
Georgians therefore the obvious "Bad Guys" are the Russians and South
Ossetians who bring murder, terror and misery upon the progressive
Georgians. The world isn't so black and white and even us dimwitted
moviegoers can appreciate the intricacies of politics in the Caucasus.
The protagonist of this wreck is an unlikeable American journalist
(Rupert Friend in a career ending role) who jumps head first into
danger because of his troubled past. He is surrounded by a cadre of
American/British journalists (Val Kilmer, Kenneth Cranham who are both
wasted as ridiculous caricatures) who drink hard, take big risks and
are always crying about how nobody cares about what is going on in the
world. At all times they are protected and working directly on behalf
of a group of saintly Georgian soldiers. They do not even pretend to be
impartial and objective. The contrived role of Tatia (Emmanuelle
Chriqui) is another low point in a film filled with an excruciating
level of inaccuracies, clich√©s and thoughtless dialogue. Special
effects are strong, location looks beautiful but the storyline and fact
every major character is played by an American or British actor and not
native Georgians/Russians is thoughtless and insulting (insulted
again). ONLY WASTE YOUR TIME ON THIS FILM IF YOU HAVE TIME TO WASTE AND
REALLY WANT TO HAVE YOUR INTELLIGENCE QUESTIONED. A TRAVESTY.
<|_=00=_|>
As a movie about a war that just happen,it of course very interesting.
As you can see at many the review and forum comments,the movie's topic
a flaming one. The maker of the movie made it sound like a movie base
on mainly facts. That was the reason I choose to see this movie.

As I'm nor Russian or Georgian(nor one of their allies), and I live
quite far for all this mess,I consider my self quite neutral in this
issue.

Sadly,this movie is far from facts,and it's so full of propaganda movie
that I couldn't even enjoy it's entertainment value.

'5 Days of August' is suppose to tell us a story about the
Russian-Georgian war in 2008,from TV-crews eyes. The conflict it's self
isn't that sudden,because the area had a long history full of
madness,politics and fighting. Which this movie did try to explorer,but
quite poorly. Mainly because it only tell the story on the side of
Georgians(view of the war from Georgians side). Russians was made to be
the main and the only bad guys(which in some context,they of course
were at fault,as they act just like US in Irak. Anyway the main problem
been Georgians was not as pure and guiltless as it showed). As story
came down to a purelly propaganda movie(Georgian been the true Freedom
fighters,and not mass murders of their own peoples or South Ossetians.
Which depend on your view on South Ossetians independents)that would
have made Goebbels proud of this one. As a history and Document fan,I
find this movie as bad as it can be. American's propaganda aren't
usually this direct, only the Nazi and communist did this type over the
top propaganda junks.

As a simple movie, this one has nothing special. Special effect are
poor. Garcia and Kilmer made me want to cry! This two's acting is not
at the same level as they should be. As b-level Director goes, Renny
Harlin did an OK job. He been a Finn must had something to do with why
he was in this movie,because even he is overqualified for this movie.
Anyhow Winter war and this one aren't the same. Finland wan't the one
starting the war,nor did they bomb their own people as part of their
plan to "free" them.

Worst thing about this movie,is that some lazy people might actually
believe this movie is about facts.

People with open mind and have the mind to study up on the issue of
South Ossetia war/history should see this movie(as a joke about
Hollywood style of facts), or Movie students. This is 2011 propaganda
movie, that use the same style as Nazi's and communist did.
<|_=00=_|>
Cold war movie era is back!

The movie has got no relation to the actual events of 08.08.08 and as
such must be classed as a propaganda.

But cold war was over 20 years ago and the skills required to make a
raunchy propaganda blockbuster sadly have gone away. While watching it
I kept on a lookout for Rambo to jump out and start downing Ruski's
choppers. And this is my main problem with movie; there was no Rambo!
Every propaganda movie should have a Rambo! There was everything but
Rambo, e.g. evil Russians killing indiscriminately, angelic good guys,
no attempt to give human-like features to the enemy, lame storyline and
cheesy acting. There was also no main evil Russian guy with cool
one-liners and a strong accent...
<|_=00=_|>
This film amounts to little more then a pro-Georgian propaganda flick.
The events are intentionally handled in a loose and inaccurate fashion.
The sequence of events is scrambled, and many events which did not
actually occur are scripted.

The fighting in Gori depicted in graphic detail at the end of the film
never took place, Gori was taken by Russian forces without any
fighting. Also movement of the Russian Black Sea Fleet and ground
troops occurred after the war started, not prior. However, perhaps the
greatest lie of the film, is ignoring the initial outbreak of
hostilities, which culminated in a Georgian assault on Tshinvali which
left close to 2000 Ossetian civilians dead. Total Georgian civilian war
dead numbered around 150. This films attempt to portray the suffering
of Georgian civilians in graphic detail, while ignoring similar acts
perpetrated by the Georgian military completely destroys any value this
film has in terms of portraying real historical events. The result is a
portrayal of a war that has unclear beginnings, followed by an
excessively violent Russian advance, rather different from the
historical actual events that unfolded. Particularly noteworthy is the
intentional misrepresentation and de-humanization of Russian military
personnel, and the the South Ossetian forces that participated in the
conflict.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, all kinds of things went wrong with this movie.

For starters, the opening sequence is awesome. One thing this movie
really had was best camera crew ever. Everything feels very intense all
the times, very close to the real war footage. Also, all the props,
vehicles, uniforms, even explosions look very real. This is the good
part.

The mediocre part is main story. It's a mix of Hotel Rwanda and Tears
of the Sun, but feels like a bootleg version, a cheap knockoff of
those.

And then there's the bad part. Just after awesome intro, you get
"treated" with shots of Tbilisi, with landmarks, people smiling, and
god forbid, trancey music in the background. It looked like a
commercial for some travel agency, with only "Visit Georgia" message
missing from the scene and was most tasteless thing I've ever seen in a
film. I live in similar post-soviet country and I do understand the
mentality in desperate desire to explain your culture to the world to
get less looked as some remote hellhole, but this is outright tasteless
and maybe Georgia hasn't come to this yet. 

The script had generally no direction. Awesome war scene here, some
corpses there, cameramen and photography director knew what to do...
But director didn't. First, that simple shot with church and bloody
river from 'Tears of the Sun' gives 10 times stronger emotion than
whole pile of bodies shown in '5 days of August'. Even though latter
tries sooo hard to portray Russians as savages.

Second, despite awesome camera and props, fighting had no point in this
movie. You see soldiers shooting stuff and each other, but it's unclear
why or what's their plan. I don't think any people who had any idea
about how soldiers and military works were on the set. Mi-24 choppers
shooting random buildings with rockets? And here I thought that every
pilot is given orders and targets to waste expensive munitions on...
Also, MI-24 sports a deadly cannon, but it's used only once, missing
everything, and soldiers act as chopper had blind men for pilot and
gunner, not taking cover. Tanks constantly missing targets and not
using machine guns? Taking down a chopper with a single LAW rocket?
SU-bombers taking down a restaurant residing in basically nowhere? This
all felt very bizarre and pointless.

I could go on, but there's no need. Let's just say that this movie is
very average, has some good moments, lots of unmemorable moments, and
some outright stupid ones. So pick it up from bargain bin, but don't
expect too much.

6 stars I give are for 2 reasons: Awesome camera work (it felt like
live action at places) and the fact that despite being incredibly dumb,
this movie IS entertaining... and that's good, even if it's for all
wrong reasons.

...as for amount of propaganda, this movie is 100% okay, considering
what comes from Moscow. Sure it's all bloated and overrated but this is
how we rock in those former USSR satellite countries. Even 50 of such
movies can't counter a single evening news show from random Russian
TV-channel. For westerners, you just have to accept that rules are
different, but watching all those Normandy landings in every Hollywood
movie and video game, maybe not as much as you might think.
<|_=00=_|>
Got this on DVD and was very excited, expecting to see a movie that
would shine some light on the complex situation that has developed
between Russia and Georgia. The writers had very rich material to work
with, the cast and the cover looked absolutely amazing, so one would
expect a good flick.

The movie begins with a scene in Iraq which introduces us to the main
character. We see Heather Graham, but unfortunately her appearance is
surprisingly short (it's actually the thing with this movie, all good
actors get very little screen time.) That scene is perhaps the only
thing that impressed me in the whole movie, and perhaps the only part I
will remember for a long time. Great effects, and cinematography.
Unfortunately it goes downhill from that in a blink.

After that brief introduction to the main character we see him going to
Georgia (because Val Kilmer in a bathtub told him, duh.) The dialogs
are absolutely awful, especially the scene in a pub where the
journalists assemble and discuss how to wipe your ass in Tajikistan (or
some such), that dialog has contributed nothing to the movie and only
made me dislike the characters. Then we see our journalists visiting a
wedding, which naturally gets bombed. That episode, no doubt, was
inspired by the Afghan wedding that was mistakenly bombed by US number
of years back, it made me wonder why the writers decided to use events
from Afghanistan in this movie... but much later, my first surprise was
that the episode showed four planes firing a rocket on a restaurant in
the middle of nowhere. That made no sense whatsoever, completely
destroying suspension of disbelief. The movie goes on like this for
quite some time with number of events and characters' actions that make
little sense, but then the really bizarre episodes begin.

A very interesting moment in the movie is when the Russians are shown
for the first time marching forward. Russians are basically portrayed
as Orcs, raping and pillaging like there's no tomorrow. While I'm sure
there were atrocities committed by both sides (as in any war) such
portrayal of one side as plain evil made me wonder whether the movie is
just another part of the informational war that has been going on ever
since the actual war ended.

I have to say that I barely made it till the end, the movie had plenty
of absurd moments past "the Orcs invasion." There's plenty of action,
and visual effects, but with ridiculous story to glue them it's not a
pleasant thing to watch.

Overall I found this movie disappointing, insulting to my intelligence,
and badly written. I would recommend this movie only if you actually
like one of the actors, otherwise don't waste you time.
<|_=00=_|>
I could spend an hour writing a detailed play by play of the movie, but
it's easier to say that yes... This is in fact a propaganda movie, so
much so it uses the actual Georgian Army as "actors" for this film and
using only Georgians as sources for the script.

But with that aside, can it be considered a good movie regardless of
it's fictional re-writing of history? Sadly this is also no, it has
direct to DVD written all over it, If it hadn't been filmed in Georgia,
using Georgian soldiers giving it a authentic look it would have
nothing standing this movie up.

I'll end this on a quote from Anna Neistat who works for "amnesty
international" "This film portrays Russians and Ossetians as barbaric
beasts and Georgians as peace angels." I couldn't sum it up any better
Anna.
<|_=00=_|>
Directed by Renny Harlin and financed by the Georgian government, this
drama is a Russian-bashing screed about the 2008 South Ossetia war and
the events leading to it. The movie revolves around the experiences of
two news reporters Thomas Anders (Rupert Friend) and Sebastian Ganz
(Richard Coyle) who accept an assignment in Tbilisi, Georgia, a year
after their previous assignment together in Iraq ended badly: the two
men were rescued by a Georgian military unit in that country after
their car was ambushed by militants. Anders and Ganz's noses for news
(and trouble) get them fired upon while watching a wedding at a rural
Georgian inn, avoiding capture while witnessing and filming atrocities
by Russian troops who have invaded the country, and ending up as
prisoners of a Russian general (Rade Serbedzija). While simultaneously
escaping, yet being drawn to, trouble and danger, the reporters pick up
a Georgian woman, Tatia (Emmanuelle Chriqui), a guest at the wedding at
the inn. Through Tatia and a collective effort to broadcast Ganz's
images to the rest of the world while keeping them away from the
Russians, Anders finds a new purpose in life and a reason to go on
living.

The romance between Anders and Tatia doesn't make sense: why should the
two fall in love simply because chance threw them together and put them
in danger together and individually? Any "chemistry" that might exist
isn't present and the pair's kiss looks like an after-thought. More
believable is Anders's loyalty to Ganz when Ganz is injured in a bomb
attack and apparently dying: the two have been in many intense
life-and-death situations which few other people can understand and
sympathise with. Both men are devoted to seeking the truth behind
layers of propagandistic fog though paradoxically this search can make
them vulnerable to manipulation by politicians and the military. The
plot's emphasis on safeguarding the memory stick that holds Ganz's
images and the Russians' attempt to destroy it leaves no room for
character development with the result that Anders, Ganz and their
fellow journalists end up perpetuating old World War Two stereotypes
about Russian soldiers torturing and killing people, raping women and
torching farms and properties with flamethrowers. (Such stereotypes
admittedly are based on fact: Soviet soldiers did act barbarically
towards German civilians in the 1940s, partly as a result of the
debased culture in the Soviet armed forces that arose after the purges
of high-ranking military officers in the 1930s as ordered by Soviet
leader Joseph Stalin, a Georgian native - what irony.) As the movie
carries on, hackneyed plot twists appear: Tatia's family is riven apart
by internal betrayal, Ganz is threatened with torture by the Russian
general's sadistic enforcer (Nikko Mousiainen), an attempt to broadcast
Ganz's images fails when the reporters are targeted by a Russian
helicopter, and Ganz is hurt in the helicopter attack. The enforcer
kidnaps Tatia and forces Anders to choose between saving her life and
keeping Ganz's film.

The film could have focused more closely on the dilemmas that
journalists in war zones face: for one thing, whether the search for
truth justifies putting their own lives and the lives of innocents in
danger. There are various political and ethical decisions they have to
make: how closely should they work with the government or the military?
how would such work interfere with their journalist code of ethics?
There is a female journalist featured who is embedded with a Georgian
army unit and viewers may well wonder what compromises she made to get
the story and pictures she wants for her employer. Will the opinions
she expresses and the images she shows reflect a definite political
agenda? The actors do what they can with the story and give at least a
three-dimensional look to their characters. Andy Garcia as Georgian
president Mikheil Saakashvili gives the best performance, endowing his
character with a dignity the real person probably doesn't deserve:
before the 2008 war, Saakashvili had been criticised for the use of
brutal police force against protesters in an anti-government
demonstration, and for declaring a state of emergency and suppressing
press freedoms as a result of the protests, in November 2007.
Well-known US actors Val Kilmer and Dean Cain do little other than
parrot their lines and strut about as reporter and diplomat
respectively and fellow US actor Jonathan Schaek as Georgian military
officer Captain Avaliani spends his screen time saving Anders and
Ganz's hides.

Any saving graces are in the Georgian settings: the cinematography
features some lovely shots of a town perched on cliffs overlooking a
winding river and of the countryside with its mountains and deep
gorges. A church used as a refuge gives the film crew opportunities to
photograph pictures of religious icons and the wedding scene featured
early in the movie gives a little insight into Georgian customs,
traditional dress styles and folk dances. Curiously there are no native
Georgian actors in the film's major and minor acting roles; Georgians
are present only as extras.

By lapsing into an action-movie rut the film fails to give a
near-accurate portrayal of the work news journalists do and the
problems they face in unusual and intense situations where
disinformation, propaganda and fear replace speech and press freedoms.
The film does not do what it claims to do: the source of the film's
financing alone puts paid to any pretence of impartiality and regard
for truth. The Georgian armed forces are portrayed as decent and
heroic, the Russians as cruel, barbaric and even criminal: in truth,
both sides were guilty of over-reaction to provocation with Georgia
attacking South Ossetia first with heavy firepower and both Georgians
and Russians alike committing grave war crimes. The US role in
supplying arms and military training to Georgia since the Rose
Revolution in 2003 and encouraging a belligerent attitude towards
Russia should not go uncondemned either.
<|_=00=_|>
The open sequence is gut wrenchingly brilliant and raw, leaving you
genuinely shocked. But as this scene fades into the next it appears the
film changed director to one who watched to much A team and any 1960's
World war II film.

For a film that purports to be a vision of real life events the
director could not have got it more wrong. We are left with ridiculous
battle scenes that are in fact an insult to the real horror of war on
civilians. Hind gun ships firing bending missiles, the director loves
this and we see these Hinds firing their bendy missiles all through out
the film. Andy Garcia does his best Borat impression while the most
shocking element of all is how much Val Kilmer has let himself go.

If you want to watch a brutal, raw and realistic film on the horrors of
war, watch the first scene and then turn your TV off. If you want to
watch some comic book propaganda film then keep on watching. A bad film
that at the start hinted on how good it could have been!!
<|_=00=_|>
The ideas behind the story and the movie seem very noble - to bring to
attention the horrors of war. For that we have story, eyewitnesses,
victims, high press coverage and it all happened in recent history.
However, something that was an ideal setting for a humanist drama is
corrupted by many flaws.

Cinematography is frankly very bad. It's on par with home movies. There
is little feel to the pictures you see and they do not deliver the
feelings that are behind the script. Unless you lived though that
particular horror, this movie will not spark any passionate feelings.
It's literally like watching a documentary of wildlife. In short, the
picture lacks any feel to it.

Direction was ordinary at best. A few emotion filled moments were
apparent, yet the cinematography failures just wiped it off the face of
the picture.

Quite a lot of CG, yet it's not an action movie. It just kills any
underlying messages. Though the CG was very good by itself.

The story is over-politicized. Though I don't think that there is
anything wrong to portray a single side of a conflict, I do have a lot
of issues when that side is very political. It has very clear
tendencies, that result in some strange plot "twists". Some make sense,
some don't. Like in all stories the politics just covers up the human
side. It's no wonder that the story has tendencies, since quite a lot
of Georgians worked on the movie. Sometimes such composition of crew
results in a highly emotional and expressive movie. Yet this time those
personal connections are lost along the way, giving way to the
political aspect of the story.

The Georgians that were close to the conflict will feel emotional
towards the movie and will relate in some way. People that were far
away will not see through the political veil and fail to relate to
hardships and suffering of ordinary people.
