
It's been a decade since the last MIB film was released. We kind of
missed the series even though Men In Black 2 wasn't really that good.
In this sequel, it's pretty small and unnecessary but it still has the
charms and bright imagination. Great Performances and Solid Visuals. It
also has the same tone of the original Men In Black films. It's a
wonderful action, adventure movie with non-stop enjoyment.

Thankfully, it does not follow the modern blockbuster roots and stay
loyal to its own. By the way, this is a comical action film. It may not
be a large one but what matters here is the fun characters. Will Smith
and Tommy Lee Jones still got it but who shines here is Josh Brolin. He
can perfectly imitate the facial expression and voice of Agent K and
it's a lot better when he's around.

The plot sounds like a generic time traveling story, but there are
imaginative and wonderful sequences in these. The humor is still
clever. There is still a heart. The action is not quite appealing but
the time jump scene was spectacular. A lot of people will be rooting
for the design of the villain, Boris the Animal. At first glance, you
might think it's creepy but you'll realize how awesome he actually
looks.

Blockbusters like this are now obsolete. Our usual modern blockbusters
are generic and bland cookie-cutters that are easy to be forgotten.
This actually stays to its own kind. It's comical, it has life, it
cares to the characters no matter how small and absurd the story is.
Yes, it's small, but there are so many merits that are worth seeing.
Either you're a fan of the series or not, you'll find it very
enjoyable. The Men in Black series is still imaginative and fun.
<|_=00=_|>
A decade away from the movie scene has given the Men In Black series a
chance at a fresher, newer perspective. Taking its cue from Shrek
Forever After, MIB 3 takes on a tired concept (time travel in this
case) if only to acknowledge the failure of its dull sequel and take us
back to a different era allowing us to view the franchise from an
unsullied angle. The result is a film that returns to its roots and
gives audiences the chance to relive much of what they first enjoyed 
a smart, sci-fi, buddy comedy that embraces everything weird and
wonderful about the unknown universe.

In his first cinematic role in nearly 4 years, Will Smith's Agent J is
the usual charming, witty wiseass we expect him to be. Still teamed up
with the laconic Agent K (wrinkly Tommy Lee Jones) he is no closer to
cracking his older partners deadpan demeanour but their relationship
issues take a back seat when a nemesis from Kay's past, Boris the
animal, turns up to exact revenge for having been imprisoned on the
moon 40 years ago. His elaborate plan takes him back in the past, to
the day he was caught, and sets ripples in the present, where K no
longer exists and a different reality results. J has to then literally
time jump (off the Empire State building no less) and fix the past for
normalcy to return in the present.

Directly Barry Sonnenfeld seems to find his groove once again with the
zany and icky shenanigans that put him on the map with the original.
Using plenty of the wide angle camera work that gave him fame as the
Coen's favourite lenser, the resulting imagery should work wonders for
those who decide to pay extra and catch the film on 3D (converted).
Boris the animal is also a return to series villains being screwball
and menacing in equal measure (remember Vincent D'Onofrio?) and Rick
Baker's excellent makeup effects are both incredible and revolting. The
big surprise is how well Josh Brolin impersonates Jones in the role of
a younger K  which should not be a surprise considering Brolin's
recent, impressive body of work as a bonafide actor, most notably in W.
So chameleon-like is his performance that you forget it's him and
actually completely believe it's just a younger version of Tommy Lee
Jones that you're seeing.

The films primary achievement and a true signal of its return to form
though are the scenes set in the past. Not only is Josh Brolin a
deadringer for Tommy Lee's K during his youth, but the hip musical
vibes of the late 60's/early 70's allow for plenty of playfulness to
ensue with a particularly hilarious segment devoted to Andy Warhol. If
that isn't enough, everything very neatly ties into another epochal
scientific moment from that time period and ends on a moment of
curiously satisfying emotionality that provides not only closure to the
film but the series as a whole. If that doesn't make you forgive all
the wrongs that the sequel did and embrace this film as one of the
years better movie franchise offerings the only thing that might work
on you is a neuralizer.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not exactly a Will Smith fan. I think the last Will Smith film I
watched and liked was the first "Men in Black" film back in 1997. I was
surprised to learn that there will be another installment of "Men in
Black" this year, the third of the series. The second MiB was shown in
2002, and I did not even care to finish that one. Will the ten years
between the last episode and this one make a difference? I needed to
see that.

In this film, a vicious alien villain known as Boris the Animal escapes
from his prison on the moon, where he had been locked up since being
arrested by Agent K (Tommy Lee Jones) back in 1969. One day, Agent K
disappears from the present day. His partner Agent J (Will Smith)
realizes that K had been assassinated by Boris forty years ago, which
caused a major change of events, allowing Boris' alien race to overrun
the Earth. J had to find a way to travel back in time to 1969 in order
to save K and rectify the tragic consequences of his death. Can J save
K and in turn save the Earth from the clutches of Boris?

The odd couple was just as they were before in the first films. Will
Smith is still his old loudmouth Agent J as Tommy Lee Jones was his
tight-lipped Agent K. As J goes back to the past, he will interact with
the young 29-year old K, perfectly played by Josh Brolin. Brolin
amazingly captures the laconic persona, and even the distinct voice, of
Jones so well that they seemed to have been one and the same actor. It
was also good to see Emma Thompson again in a major film as she
portrayed Agent O, another senior agent with a soft spot for K. The
younger Agent O was played by a cutie named Alice Eve, but she
certainly did not convince us that she would look or act like Emma
Thompson when she grows older.

I must say that this film was really a most entertaining one. Well,
maybe more for me than for my kids. Younger audiences may find the
jokes about 1969 cultural references, such as the hippies, the racial
tension, etc., to be a bit difficult to grasp. But the fun action
sequences with some exciting futuristic vehicles and weaponry, the
imaginative and repulsive aliens made by no less than the master
monster-maker Rick Baker, the thrilling integration of the historic
Apollo 11 lift-off, and the touching revelation of K's big secret made
this a very good and enjoyable movie to watch. 3D did not seem
necessary. Director Barry Sonnenfeld got it right this time, and this
segment certainly gave perfect closure to the story arc of the whole
series.
<|_=00=_|>
Once again our favorite MIB agents Jay & Kay are battling it out for
earth. Quick action, colorful villains, beautifully designed settings
and CGI, comic relief in the face of imminent destruction, all those
made the first two movies great as well as successful in the box
office. Could they better the formula in the face of all the other bad
sequels we have been seeing for years? 

This is one of the reasons I had stepped into the cinema with
trepidation. (Good grief, was it 1997 when I saw the first and ten
years ago the second? How time flies). The other reason was the pitfall
of time travel.

Time travel is one of the favorite themes in sci fi movies but it needs
to be handled carefully. My humble word of advice to the script
writers: Keep-It-Simple. Avoid overtly complicated jumps back and forth
and paradoxes that confuse the audience. Remember the eventual mess in
the Back To The Future trilogy? I was then so pleased to see that they
kept the time travel relatively simple and easy to follow. There was a
small part when they crossed the line juuust a tiny bit when young
agent Kay meets a certain father and son (don't want to spoil it). Even
if traveling back in time was possible, you wouldn't necessarily bump
into everyone you know in the present.

Will Smith is in his usual good form in his character Jay which however
needs Kay to balance him. It is then fortunate that Brolin gives a
great performance as the young agent.

Was it better than the 1997original? It was as good, without the
novelty value obviously. Was it as good as the MIB2? I would say that
it surpassed the second.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, whaddaya know, the "MiB" have gone MiA for 10 years already! No
wonder many of us have forgotten about them as Men In Cape and
Bodysuits (aka The Avengers, Batman, Spider-Man, et al) have been
hogging the cinemas while the "Men In Black" go missing-in-action. No
matter, they are still a barrel of fun in this three-quel that comes as
more of a surprise than a treat that we have been waiting for.

And with Barry Sonnenfeld back at the helm of this troubled and delayed
US$215-million production, it is a nostalgic film in more ways than
one.

Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones reprise their roles as agents J and K of
the secret Men in Black organization that monitors alien activity on
Earth. The 'odd-couple' have their work cut out for them when
extra-terrestrial serial killer Boris the Animal (Jemaine Clement)
escapes from his maximum security prison on the moon and travels back
in time to kill K. Since only J remembers K's existence, it's up to him
to venture through time, look for a young K (now played by Josh Brolin)
and stop Boris from destroying the world once and for all.

I have never been a fan of time-travel plots and I still don't like
them. However, the time-travel subplot here is just to provide the
"Back To The Future" fantasy to the MiB franchise. The narrative, as
well as the mood and tone of the movie, are light-hearted, fun and
always on the outer limits of credibility. Again, it is nice to see how
a deadpan face like Jones' can generate so much mirth. The Smith &
Jones pairing is augmented by Brolin who gives a good representation of
how K would be in the Sixties, with most of the sequences accompanied
by popular Sixties hits on the soundtrack.

One of the staple jokes of the MiB series is the celebrity cameos that
suggest alien origins. In MiB3, we have a 'twist' that suggests a
certain pop art personality is an undercover MiB agent! Still, the
mainstay of the MiB series is Rick Baker's creature designs and make-up
rendered in 3D. The 'monster show' does not disappoint, especially that
of a huge fish that attacks diners at a Chinese restaurant. Oh yes,
there are also a couple of cool gadgets and vehicles like the giant
wheel hoover-bikes used by Agents J and K. On the whole, Agents J and K
still provide the 'L'. - limchangmoh.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
It is really hard to believe that it has been 10 years since the last
Men in Black film. I have to say that this film was much better than
the last film which was really just a regurgitation of the first one.
This film had a lot more substance and managed to tie up some loose
ends which I really appreciated. I think that this film works in 3D
because there is a lot of falling through time, which my niece and
nephew loved. I have to give major props to Josh Brolin (younger Agent
K) who had the daunting task of portraying an actor portraying a role.
Tommy Lee Jones (old Agent K) just basically had to be himself (smile).
Josh was totally convincing and did an excellent job imitating Tommy's
persona. I liked the introduction of Agent O (Emma Thompson) who had
one of the funniest scenes in the film and literally had me laughing
out loud. I also liked the fact that a women was in charge of such a
prestigious agency. As usual Will Smith (Agent J) came up with very
comical explanations of the weird situations that occur during the
film. I think that my favorite character in the film is Griffin
(Michael Stuhlbarg). He was a psychic who could see into the various
futures that could occur if certain things happen. I was a little
confused at first, but as the film progressed, I finally got it. I
related to this character because I have always believed that you
always have at least two doors to open (e.g. you can pick up that piece
of paper or not) and whatever you decide to do affects everything else.
Okay, enough of philosophy class and back to the film. The one thing
about all the Men in Black films is all of the different characters
that the visual effect crew create. You have to appreciate the
imagination of those folks. I also like to check out the aliens that
they are monitoring at the agency, for example in the first one they
were monitoring Michael Jackson and Agent J's elementary school
teacher. Appropriately in this film you get flashes of Lady Gaga and
Justin Bieber (appropriately). I wonder if they have to agree to that?
Anyway, this was a very entertaining film and you will be glad that you
saw it in 3D. I give this film an out-of-this-world green light.
Enjoy!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about Agent J going back in time to rescue Agent K from
being murdered by aliens.

My friends say that "Men in Black III" is a brainless comedy, you can
go in just for a few laughs and switch your brain off. After watching
it, I can safely say that I have another opinion.

"Men in Black III" does have its brainless moments. It can be
politically incorrect too, but it is entertaining and fun to watch.
Special effects are realistic, and the scene involving a very tall
building made me so nervous that my palms perspired a lot! The ending
is very touching; I certainly did not see it coming even though a
friend guessed it.

I think it is great that "Men in Black III" manages to combine
emotional elements in the middle of mainstream blockbuster
entertainment. I look forward to the next film in the series already.
<|_=00=_|>
The criminal Boris the Animal (Jemaine Clement) escapes from the
LunaMax, a moon-based maximum security prison. He comes to Earth
seeking revenge from Agent K (Tommy Lee Jones) that has blown his arm
up and arrested him forty years ago and protected Earth from a
Boglodyte invasion. Boris is defeated again and he travels back in time
to 1969 to kill Agent K.

When Agent J (Will Smith) notes that the time line has changed in the
present days and Agent O (Emma Thompson) tells him that K died in 1969,
he decides to travel to 15 July 1969 to save K on the next day. Agent J
has difficulties to convince the Young Agent K (Josh Brolin) with lies,
but when he decides to tell the truth, K believes in his words and they
seek out Boris together. 

They are helped by the amicable alien Griiffin (Michael Stuhlbarg) that
has precognitive powers and gives the ArcNet to K to protect Earth from
the Boglodyte invasion. Further, J learns a secret about K and himself.

"Men in Black 3" is a great adventure of this franchise, with a
wonderful story and magnificent special effects. I had low expectations
with movie, but I was favorably surprised with an adorable film. My
vote is seven. 

Title (Brazil): "MIB³ - Homens de Preto 3" ("MIB³ - Men in Black 3")
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a fan of the Men in Black movies since the original
released in 1997. When MIB-II was finally out in 2002, I wondered why
it took so long as Tommy Lee Jones and Will Smith seemed to work so
well together, and their characters had that just right mix of
complementing but contradicting personalities.

Jones has long been a favorite of mine with some other highlight
performances being the delightfully crazy villain in Under Siege (1992)
and the hard nosed cop in The Fugitive (1993) and U.S. Marshalls
(1998). His ability to make a facial expression the equivalent of the
picture's 1000 words imho is up there with Humphrey Bogart.

Smith has distinguished himself in action, comedy, and drama films
alike. He is a quite versatile actor whose movies I will gladly check
out just because he is starring.

With MIB 3 coming another 10 years after MIB II, I once again wonder
what took so long. While Jones's part as "K" is not so prominent as in
the prior releases, he does well as the present day character. Smith
follows the formula as "J" although the interaction with old "K" is a
tad forced.

The pleasant realization is that Josh Brolin performs admirably as the
past, younger "K." Brolin is certainly a fine actor in his own right,
but his effective portrayal of Jones' character is nothing short of
remarkable. The key to the plot is that Brolin is "K" before whatever
happened that turned "K" into such a detached curmudgeon.

Also juicy was the villain's part done by Jermaine Clement as Boris
(the animal).

Besides all the action and suspense you expect with the good guys vs.
bad guy alien stuff, and the touches of comedy here and there to break
it up, there is a dramatic and quite poignant and touching twist that
comes out of nowhere that answers why "K" appears to be such an
unemotional person, and why "K" has such regard for "J." Top quality
actors and performances, well done script, yeah, this one's a keeper.
<|_=00=_|>
Although MIB3 wasn't necessarily a 'bad' movie, it certainly wasn't as
good as it could have been. It seemed, while watching the marketing
plugs, like they were going to bring the big guns and bring back all
the funny stuff and cool special effects, but they just fell short. The
original was quite good -- Funny, a little scary, cool characters, good
stunts, very original. Part II was just bad. So, if you are going to
wait 10 years to do a three-quel that nobody really was dying to see
because part 2 was so bad, then you better make part 3 REALLY good --
Right? 

Well -- It wasn't REALLY good. It was OK. I wanted to love it, but I
honestly only barely liked it. It was lacking the things that made the
franchise 'cool.' There was no talking pug, no funny pawn shop guy, no
real interesting or funny aliens at all. The lead bad-guy alien was a
somewhat interesting character, but no real personality. Nothing that
made you want more of him. And other than him, there was hardly any
other aliens in it. One little stint in a Chinese restaurant, but
nothing rememorable. No funny ones. I just don't understand not making
more characters like the ones that made the first such a hit. And even
Wil Smith wasn't funny. He was funnier during his promotions on talk
shows than in his movie. He just seemed to walk through the whole
thing.

ABSOLUTELY NO REASON to see it in 3D. None.

I hate to say it -- But the special effects were awful. With technology
today, most special effects are seamless. As an audience, we now
'expect' good effects. Half the time, it was very obvious when they
were using backdrops and green screens and had super-imposed stuff.
That's just a deal-breaker in today's movie-going world. 

The one truly redeeming quality it had -- and it was good -- was Josh
Brolin playing the younger K (Tommy Lee Jones). He was spot on and did
a great job. But even that isn't enough to carry a movie that wants to
be a summer Blockbuster.

Bottome Line -- Rent it. It's worth seeing if you have it lying around
the house and have nothing to do, but not if you have to pay full
price, and nothing you have to run right out and see.

And this is from a fan of Wil Smith, Tommy Lee Jones, and Josh Brolin.
