
I went to see this movie with two girl friends of mine. Throughout the
movie, one of them kept groaning and sighing at the same parts I did.
The other later accused us of never having been kids. I think they
might both be right.

If you were ever a child, you are probably familiar with Doctor Seuss's
'The Lorax', a tale of a world where man's greed and selfishness has
eradicated all the trees in favor of their escapist man-made town. It's
a charming yet somewhat depressing book as the main character realizes
what he's destroyed, yet leaves a glimmer of hope at the end as he
passes off the last tree seed to a young boy to plant. As a kid, I
loved the bittersweet end, as it got the message across and made me
want to care about preserving nature.

The movie, on the other hand, left me thoroughly unimpressed. Let me
get the good parts out of the way first. Naturally, the art style is
fantastic and whimsical, as all Seuss work is. Danny Devito does a
great job as the Lorax, and I feel it's pretty safe to say that the
parts of the story actually focusing on the Lorax himself were indeed
enjoyable. That is, with the exception of a badly placed musical
number, which makes any sorrow at the trees being destroyed seem
diluted. You should be upset that the Lorax leaves us, but I was more
upset that I WASN'T upset. 

Unfortunately, the part of the story focusing on the boy trying to find
a tree was tiresome. It's a case where the book was more dramatic than
the story - nature had been ravaged, and nobody cared about it except
for one boy. In the movie, it's basically all because of some horribly
stereotyped evil characters - Once-ler himself is painted as naive but
still a good person, but the creators apparently didn't want him to
seem corrupt in chopping down all the trees so they have his redneck
family do it for him. And the business tycoon Mr. O-Hare is just
ridiculously evil. I'm not going to say that big businessmen shouldn't
be villains or anything like that , but the point of the original book
was that all of mankind had stopped caring, whereas the movie says it's
the fault of Once-ler and O'hare entirely, the latter of who
deliberately is keeping people clueless about trees. I just feel the
ending would have been far more dramatically appropriate if, instead of
having a cliché'd (and underwhelming) chase scene where he shows
everybody O'hare is evil, if he instead needed to actually CONVINCE
people that trees were worth caring about (he convinces them by
knocking down a wall at the end. Apparently in the last 15 or so years
nobody had even once looked outside.) Additionally, when he finally
plants the seed, all the other trees start growing again. Not sure how,
but it makes me wonder - if that's all it took, why didn't Once-ler try
to plant the seed 15 years ago?

Also, they throw in a 'hip grandmother' pretty much entirely because
they know grandparents will be taking their kid. At one point the
romantic interest actually says 'Wow, how cool is your grandmother'.
This bothered me for some reason. Perhaps because I have no soul.

Also, it's apparently a musical, something that the ads failed to
mention. I'm not against musicals, but the combined fact that 1.) i
wasn't prepared for that (Despicable Me, their previous movie, had
none) and 2.) the music was... bland. I can't remember any of it and i
just got out 20 minutes ago. Also, as I said earlier, one musical
number completely ruins the tragic mood it tried to set with the trees
getting chopped down.

I know that it can be hard translating a Seuss book, usually with only
20 or 30 pages, into a feature film is a tough task. But honestly, if
you don't even get the theme right then you have failed in your task.
Lorax is enjoyable in a lot of parts, but the parts that aren't AREN'T. 

Final verdict: 5/10. Your kids might like it, but the uninspired music,
botched ending, and boring finale are real game breakers.
<|_=00=_|>
...in this case, changes from the book/original TV short. A lot of
people have been lamenting the "frame story" this movie adds in, as
well as the idea of making the Once-ler a human character. As far as
the frame goes, it's done pretty well. It's a bit flat but perfectly
enjoyable for younger kids. Making the Once-ler human, though?
BRILLIANT. Hear me out. The original Once-ler was a faceless force of
destruction, a shadowy embodiment of greed. This Once-ler is just a
stupid kid with a dream, a guy who wants to change the world. He's not
evil, but he lets his success get to his head, and that brings about
his own downfall and the destruction of the forest. That's FANTASTIC,
and here's why: that's how the world really is! Companies don't sit
around all day cackling about how much smog they're pumping into the
atmosphere; it's a process, and something that happened gradually.
Obliviousness is just as dangerous as maliciousness, and that's a
really powerful lesson. This can happen to YOU if you're not careful;
anybody can hurt the planet if they don't pay attention. That's a rare
lesson, and one I'm really pleased to see in this movie. 

So, is it silly and stupid sometimes? Yes, of course. But it's colorful
and exuberant, and in a lot of ways I think it really captured the
"Seuss-ness" that similar remakes have missed. There's nothing
offensive about it (besides the miserable marketing) and my little
brother enjoyed it as a fun movie. I enjoyed it for giving us a
deeper--and in my opinion, very powerful--character type: the
accidental villain, the everydude who makes a horrible mistake that the
environment suffers for. So take that as you will...but overall, I
found myself liking this a lot more than I expected. Definitely worth a
watch.
<|_=00=_|>
If you think Hollywood is the greediest moneygrubbing plastic city in
the world, think again  and welcome to Thneedville, where every overly
promoted, abundantly commercialized item costs bundles and, scariest of
all, there are no trees. Enter Ted, a kid smitten with a gorgeous girl
Audrey, who has only one wish  painted along the back of her house are
tall skinny things resembling straws harboring wispy windblown cotton
candy. These are the long forgotten trees, and she wants one, a real
one, badly. Through his wise old granny, Ted learns of The Once-ler, a
hermit residing on the outskirts of the shallow metropolis: walled in
and policed by a wicked, and very short, dictator O'Hare.

But Ted gets easily past the border and, using his power scooter, zips
into a dark flatland where he finds a faceless hermit in a spooky
house. Here he learns the backstory and what the film's all about:
Once-ler was once a poor farm boy who discovered a land abundant in
nature and cutesy animals. He realizes, to make his dream invention 
what he calls the Thneed (think of a Bionic Snuggie)  he has to chop
down a tree: which summons our titular hero, The Lorax. This mustached,
peanut-shaped, blunt yet lovable orange creature (voiced by Danny
DeVito) is an underdog environmentalist that can only point the
Once-ler toward wisdom. But becoming a powerful businessman is
Once-ler's priority  and his Thneed's a big hit until all the trees
are gone.

Now we're back with Ted, whose input means very little  especially
since the title character (who has surprisingly minimal screen time and
plot relevance) is history and the real tale has been told.
Nevertheless, Ted's final mission is to plant one last seed. Although
the greedy O'Hare  who sells clean air in cans and fake trees for big
bucks  wants him stopped.

Kids will enjoy the wonderfully vivid animation and the cutesy
characters, especially a bear cub and singing fish residing in the
tree-laden forest. Here's where the most involving, fast-paced action
occurs. And the overly obvious environmental message works in scenes
where each tree falls to their death: like best friends dying slowly,
and painfully, before your very eyes.

But once the movie ends with a corny singalong about letting it grow,
you'll realize this ninety-minute tale was really just a message with
lots of vibrant color: Other than a greedy entrepreneur cutting down
trees to make money and then realizing his mistake, not much really
happens.

Yet the real moral of this anti-capitalist movie is that it grossed a
whopping $70 million this weekend. But since spending, and making,
large amounts of money is a bad thing, you can do the producers a
favor: instead of paying $14 bucks to watch THE LORAX, go plant a tree!

For More Reviews: www.cultfilmfreaks.com
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe (well, yes I can) that people gave this a bad review. I
was afraid I was going to be disappointed when I saw the Lorax, based
on some reviews, but I wasn't at all. My 11 year old and I both loved
the movie, she laughed out loud at many parts (although I have to admit
she does do that a lot watching movies) and we left very pleased that
we saw it.

Background: I grew up on Dr. Seuss, my six kids grew up with Dr. Seuss.
We love Dr. Seuss even as adults. We've read the book, we've seen the
original movie. I have two vegetarian older daughters, we are
environmentally conscious. Also, we like musicals and my father was a
music teacher - so finding out it was a musical was not a
disappointment. There was definitely NOT a lot of musical numbers. If
you hate musicals, I think the songs are infrequent enough that you can
groan through it and let your kid enjoy the movie. That said, despite
all the reviews on bad music, we thought the songs were lively and fun
and cute. You're not gonna go out and buy a record for it, but it fit
the movie for the kids it was targeted to.

Like another reviewer said: THIS IS A MOVIE FOR KIDS!! As with any
movie, it's geared toward a certain age group. People who take two-year
olds to the theater must be crazy, taking them to see this movie is no
exception. Granted, there's cute fuzzy bears, but there's a story being
told and a lesson - definitely geared toward elementary/pre-teens, not
the yo gabba gabba crowd. Your toddler or active pre-schooler will not
sit through this.

My opinion is also based on the fact that we do not watch a lot of
movies or TV, (I'm a firm believer that kids should be outside
playing), and we are certainly not film or animation connoisseurs. I
can see how someone used to intense-graphics and action-packed films
would get bored with this. It is a story. If you like kid stories, you
will like this. We did not find it boring, I thought it was well told,
and it held our interest all the way through.

Is it like the original? There's a lot different, a little similar. I
don't think I've ever seen a movie that was like the book. Book is
always better. Contrary to what another reviewer said about no rhyming,
there are rhymes and some book quotes in the movie.

When they redid Cat in the Hat, I didn't like it, didn't like what they
did with the Cat character at all, but my kids did. I liked The Lorax,
and my daughter did. (The others are in college and haven't seen it
yet...but they will I'm sure.) I'm somewhat sensitive to violence and
scariness in movies (but not overly so), and I feel this is safe to
take your kids to if they get scared easy. There's occasional moments
when I had to roll my eyes up and think "did X really have to punch X
at that moment" - but it's not violent or scary at all. Your kid won't
go home with nightmares or shooting people. Maybe they'll even plant a
tree.

If you have elementary/pre-teen kids I highly recommend this movie for
you and your kids.
<|_=00=_|>
If someone walked up to you in the street with a rock that had THE
MORAL written on it in capital letters, and them proceeded to beat you
about the head with it, it would be more subtle than this movie.

It was trite, preachy, and more full of flagrant cliché than any movie
I have ever seen.

The thing I loved most about Seuss was his ability to nestle a moral
gently and concisely under layers of symbolism. Yes, his stories were
sometimes over the top and hyperbolic, in an endearing way, but they
made their point and moved on.

As I am now.

If you love Seuss, and do not want to risk ruining everything that his
genius taught you, do not watch this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the problems with the recent attempts to adapt Dr. Seuss' books
into movies is Hollywood's tendency to intrude upon his work with cute,
snappy dialogue and slapstick comedy, and expand on appropriately thin
material with gobs of hip-cool dialogue and needless subplots. Anyone
familiar with Dr. Seuss' books knows that this is completely the wrong
approach. A good example is "The Lorax", the 1971 book which was about
the depletion of the environment through industrial carelessness. The
book ends with a somber, but hopeful, message that the environment
could be saved by one caring individual. The movie ends with a car
chase. You can see the problem here.

The original story involved a little boy who arrived, under
"smog-smuggered sky", to see a hermit called The Once-ler, who lived in
sad looking structure atop his store. For a small fee, the guilt-ridden
Once-ler laid out the story of how the land got so filthy. Years
before, he had arrived in this land when it was brimming with bountiful
color and life and how he decimated that life by cutting down all the
Truffala Trees in order to make a product called The Thneed. Despite
dire warnings from the forest guardian called The Lorax, the Once-ler
continued his profligate ways until he turned the once beautiful
landscape into a desolate wasteland.

The book never gave the boy a name, an origin, or a reason for coming
to see The Once-ler (he was meant to represent the reader). Not so in
the movie. The boy is called Ted Wiggins and he lives in a completely
artificial town of Thneedville, which is completely devoid of anything
natural and surrounded by a large steel wall. His reason for seeking
out The Once-ler is that he wants to impress a girl by bringing her a
Truffala Tree, which are extinct. Exiting the town on his motorbike, he
goes to find The Once-ler, who spells out his story.

Much of the movie flashes back in time to tell how The Once-ler (who
was never seen in the book, but is often seen here) came to destroy
this beautiful forest. The Lorax, who "speaks for the trees" wants the
Once-ler to stop his wasteful means and move on, but The Once-ler sees
profit in logging and won't stop. That's good enough, but why did we
need a subplot in which Ted tries to stop a greedy industrialist called
Mr. O'Hare (who has made millions selling bottles of fresh air) from
planting trees? Worse, why did we need a happy ending? Why did the
book's hopeful ending get drawn out into a roller-coaster car chase
around Thneedville followed by a lame musical number? Even more
puzzling is why the screenwriters decided to throw away Dr. Seuss'
dialogue. The magic of Seuss' stories lay in his dances of words and a
distinctive rhyming structure. The movie has none of this. The
characters speak in the kinds of smart-alecky phrases that every
animated feature these days seems to incorporate. That means quips,
insults, clever asides and buzz words. The title is painfully
misleading.

The basic problem is that the filmmakers didn't have the courage to
follow the original work. Their movie represents a fear that telling
such a deep and sorrowful story will offend viewers who might ask for
their money back. Their movie is blown up, wrapped up and packaged as
silly musical comedy with an environmental message buried in the
corner. This isn't the worst movie of the year, but it is certainly the
most weak-kneed.

Will kids enjoy it? As a diversion for a Saturday afternoon, probably,
but it would do an injustice to introduce this story to them through
this movie. The only positive is that it will probably exit their
brains almost as soon as it is over. Revisit the book and you'll that
there is a reason that Dr. Suess' story has remained in our minds for
40 years. If Dr. Seuss had written his book as it plays out in this
movie, it would have long been lost into the dustbins of history, which
where this wrong-headed movie is very likely headed.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard for Hollywood to make an adaptation of a book by Dr. Seuss.
Especially if it's something like The Lorax. The Lorax is one of Dr.
Seuss' darkest tales with a serious sentiment. This film adaptation
keeps the story but it focuses too much to its fun characters and
gimmickry of the 3D than the environmental message. It leaves the
message as the background of the film. As a whole, it's colorful and
fun but it feels very different.

The film adds a lot of new things to stretch this small story. Like the
Once-ler reveals his face and the kid from from the beginning has a
different motive why he went to the Once-ler. It's strange and clever.
This is from the creators of Despicable Me and the studio's trademark
is to add some cute comic relief characters. The Humming Fish, Swomee
Swans, and The Barbaloots are cute enough.

It's easy to say that Danny DeVito is perfect as the Lorax and Ed Helms
is a bit charming as the Once-ler. Everything in this film fun. The
songs are pretty good although it's not quite memorable. What
disappoints here is the execution of the story. Yes, the message is
there but it feels like it's just the background of the film. More goes
to the fun. There's nothing wrong with that but it's too light for this
dark story.

The film has the heart and soul to show Dr. Seuss' illustration but the
storytelling feels too different. The message is there but it's not as
compelling as the book. It's pretty hard to say it's a bad film because
it's entertaining and fun. It's hard to say it's great because it lacks
eagerness to the message. It seems like Horton Hears A Who will remain
as the best Dr. Seuss adaptation so far.
<|_=00=_|>
I was so happy with this movie, I knew I had to see it but I was
hesitant. As most reviewers have said this is one of Dr. Suess's best
books and how can that possibly translate properly to a movie. 

Well as hesitant as I was to watch The Lorax I was curious. I watched
this with my 2 1/2 year- old daughter and I loved it and what's more my
daughter loved it which is more important than what I think of it
anyway. Everyday since we got this on DVD my daughter pulls it off the
shelf and says "mommy let's watch the Lorax." But as most parents know
already your kids have their favorites and my daughter won't sit
through movies that she doesn't like, this seems to become one of those
favorites. 

To also make it clear my daughter is familiar with the book as well she
has me read it almost every night. Both book and movie drive the same
message across in slightly different but effective ways. 

I loved this and thought it was an excellent artistic interpretation of
the wonderfully written Lorax by Dr. Suess. I only hope that after all
the books turned to movies recently people can start to understand that
the book and movie are separate, but this never seems to be
understood.There will always be discrepancies between book and movie.
The main thing is that this movie is wonderful despite the differences.
<|_=00=_|>
Screenplay writers Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio adapt Dr. Seuss's book The
Lorax about a grumpy forest creature, who isn't quite ready to share
his world of brightly colored fuzzy trees. The creators of DESPICABLE
ME takes a header with this CGI and 3D feature. Animated films like
this one rely on the vocal talents of its stars. Diverse stars
sometimes bring life to enjoyable looking scenes. And sometimes you
have a whirl of pretty cinematography going nowhere. You decide. Twelve
year old Ted(Zac Efron)is wanting to impress the sweetheart of his
dreams Audrey(Taylor Swift)by presenting her with her heart's
desire...a tree. In the process Ted will meet up with The Lorax(Danny
DeVito), the keeper of the only trees, and exchange thoughts of hope,
love and promise. Miss Betty White is wasted giving voice to Ted's
Grammy Norma. DeVito at least probably earned his paycheck. Efron is as
interesting as plaster. Swift was sweet enough. When I viewed THE
LORAX, the only real reactions I noticed came from the "pull-up diaper
set". I would imagine Dr. Seuss might be a little disappointed too.
<|_=00=_|>
All reviewers of this movie seem to either love it or hate it, and it's
easy to see why. 

As has been pointed out to death, the "modernized" Hollywood story
added in of a celebrity-voiced kid trying to win a girl and overcome a
two- dimensional villain in the process is thoroughly uninteresting,
and will make older moviegoers angry at the lack of effort made in
expanding the story. 

The Once-ler's tale, on the other hand, is the story carried over from
the book, one of unchecked ambition and carelessness. The Once-ler is
morally gray and this is done very well, as he is likable, yet you're
never sure- is he a villain? A misguided hero? Somewhere in between?
Sure, it's padded out with cutesy animals, but knowing what becomes of
them in the end makes it considerably less innocent. This story is
where Seuss's message is, and it still makes it through. 

The score by John Powell is epic and the animation and designs are
gorgeous, which add great atmosphere in the darker parts of the movie.
The environmental message is very un-subtle, and people who dislike
that in other movies will dislike it here. 

One need only listen to the cut song "Biggering" to see how powerful
this story could have gotten. And they just didn't have the guts. But
beauty does manage to seep through in places, and this is one movie
that I'd highly recommend seeing only parts of.
