
I see a lot of movies, and the great majority of them make little
impression on me. They are fun and entertaining, but quickly
forgettable. Not DISCONNECT, though. This is a powerful and provocative
film that not only keeps you pinned to your seat but also makes you
think about the consequences of your actions. It should certainly be
required viewing not only for young people but also for anyone who uses
social media or communicates via the Internet. This is a timely,
well-written, well-acted, and well-paced movie that stays with you long
after you leave the movie theater. I was also pleased by the fact that
the director and writer did not take the easy way out. No glib,
predictable solutions here, which is one reason why the film's events
linger in your mind.
<|_=00=_|>
The Internet has dramatically changed the world. That much we know. Our
lives are better for it, on balance. But it's the other side of that
scale, the harm caused by our web-connected lives, that is the weighty
focus of "Disconnect." The damage that can be done, intentionally or
not, has been well-documented. Writer Andrew Stern and director Henry
Alex Rubin have selected several examples of the Internet age's
unfortunate downside and crafted three compelling story lines, all
based on actual cases. This common narrative structure will inevitably
be called "Crash-like," but whether or not the stories connect isn't
really the point of "Disconnect." The movie raises a danger sign that,
if gone unheeded, will only result in more senseless tragedies --
countless lives ruined, innocent children lost -- and putting the
spotlight on several unsuspecting victims of our Internet society makes
for a powerful experience that packs an emotional wallop from opening
credits to finale.

This is one of those films for which, as a non-spoiler reviewer, it's
best for me to avoid the specifics of the script and who does what
here. You'll have to discover that for yourself. But, needless to say,
Disconnect is not the feel-good movie of the year. It's often sad and
scary, dark and depressing at times, and knowing it's based on true
stories makes it all the more devastating when we witness the
consequences of our seemingly-innocuous actions when entering a chat
room, looking for virtual companionship, playing a childish practical
joke, or putting our personal information online.

Every actor in the huge ensemble cast, from adults to teens, is superb.
Without giving away their exact roles, Jason Bateman does a dramatic
star turn here as a caring father in an unfathomable situation. One of
our most prolific and underrated actors, Bateman has appeared in 22
features since I began attending the Toronto Film Festival six years
ago, including my fest faves "Juno" (Toronto 2007), "Up in the Air"
(Toronto 2009), and "Paul" (SXSW 2011). As the commanding lead in one
of Disconnect's three story lines, charismatic 23-year-old Max Thieriot
dominates the screen in every scene he's in. Colin Ford (15 at the
time) turns in one of the most heartwrenching youth performances I've
seen in years as a typical mischievous youngster with a penchant for
playing pranks. Other standouts include Paula Patton, Frank Grillo,
Alexander Skarsgård, Jonah Bobo, Aviad Bernstein, Andrea Riseborough,
and Hope Davis. All demonstrate a clear passion for the material and
belief in Henry Alex Rubin's lofty vision. Your pulse should be checked
if you don't shed a tear (or two, or more) during the viewing of this
movie.

Production values are quite high for an independent film. Lighting
subtly matches the tonal changes of each storyline. A warm color
palette provides a soft amber glow around characters driven by
affection. A family whose life is orderly and organized is bathed in
white, with bright primary colors on flat surfaces with square
geometric shapes and sharp angles. The milieu turns dark and shadowy as
innocence turns to evil. Max Richter's haunting score similarly
complements each disparate narrative as their respective characters are
drawn deeper into the dilemmas they've created.

The cinematography is a character unto itself. Ken Seng's adept
camera-work is consistently magnificent in its use of techniques like
frame-within-a-frame, with shots peering through windows and doors as
though we're voyeurs, faces often half obscured by laptops. Objects
move in and out of frame, partially blocking our view, as though we're
spying on the subjects. Point of view shots of computer and phone
screens occupy much of the frame in many crucial scenes. The film is
filled with such bold choices. All serve to enhance and echo the themes
laid out by the broad premise of unintentional connections caused by
the disconnect between our fingers on the keyboard and the humans at
the other end.

Editor Lee Percy had the challenging task of making it all coherent.
Knowing where and when to cut, whether or not to weave the stories
together or keep them parallel, when to converge and diverge -- these
are all crucial decisions that are key to the success of the project.

"Disconnect" sits near the top of all the pictures I've seen this year
and is one of the few which prompted me to utter the word "masterpiece"
quietly as the credits rolled. As one tends to have intense feelings
about a film in its immediate afterglow, I often wait for the emotional
excitement to die down before writing my review and assessing its
impact. "Disconnect" haunted me throughout the rest of the festival and
has continued to do so. Will a movie like this alter the way we
interact with technology? Probably not. But one less life shattered
will make it worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
Had the opportunity to see this amazing film at a sneak preview last
night at the AFI/Silver Theater in Silver Spring MD. This is a powerful
film that exceeded my expectations. Reading the marketing blurb I was
worried it would be just another hi-tech thriller making use of all the
latest cool technology. Being a tech Luddite I was about to pass,but
the comparison to Crash pulled me in, and I am glad I went. This is a
compelling ensemble film of how three different set of characters are
impacted by the technology that has become so integral to our lives. We
follow the stories of these people as they cope with the a new reality
brought on by their reliance on electronic devices. This is a lame
description but I can't go much further into it without spoiling this
gripping agonizing film for you. Let just say it will make you recall
and relive every stupid thing you did as a teenager, every stupid
decision you make now, and how those decisions are amplified by our
reliance on electronic devices. None of the stories are new in the
human experience, but the speed in which events occur and the
seriousness of the consequences are greater because of the wired
alienation of society. The screen play, acting, cinematography,
editing, lighting all work together to increase the tension of this
film. Jason Bateman, in particular, stands out in this dramatic roll.
He has proved he can sit in the top ranks of male dramatic actors and I
hope to see him expand his resume in drama. All of the actors go deep
into their characters, many with a realism that could be sitting next
to you in the theater, Particularly effective is the use of text on
screen to show on-line chat conversations. As the previous reviewer
describes, there is a voyeuristic perspective to the shots. A viewer at
the preview referenced Rear Window in comparison, and that is true.
This film is a Rear Window for the new millennium, where we peer into
our neighbor's lives with cell phones and lap tops. Is this film a
thriller? It is thrilling in a way that has you alternating between the
edge of your seat and sinking deep into your seat. This film will leave
you thinking for hours and days afterward. It may also have you looking
at your cell phone and laptop with a new distrust. I can't tell you my
favorite scene, other than it was a completely human, non-tech reaction
by a character in grief. I will have to wait for more friends to see
this film, and then we will sit down face to face and talk about that
scene. Go see this film, tell your friends to go see this film. And
then have a good talk about this amazing film.
<|_=00=_|>
A brilliant story to tell how technology has alienated marriage, family
and friendship instead of connecting people. It is even sadder when all
the stories are based on true events. I watched it at the Hong Kong
International Film Festival and for the first time after almost 10
films thought this is the first one which can be publicly released for
a wider audience because of its social message, especially right after
two cases of murders of local parents by their adult sons who loved to
play computer games.

Disconnect mainly centers on three sub stories which are loosely
linked. There was nothing wrong in each character's internal logic or
perception of the world: a lonely teenager looking for friendship, a
wife confiding to a stranger on the internet because her husband cannot
talk with her on their loss of their son, a young journalist trying to
get a scoop on runaway youth turned cyber sex provider.

As the story progress, however, we see how these longing deviate and
troubles follow. Some people were so longing for connection with other
human beings but cannot be satisfied at home that they naively trust
this virtual relationship on the internet or mobile phone  while on
the other end of the line, their "friends" might well be abuser or
bullies, taking advantage of these lonely hearts, intentionally or not.

Since the director used to shoot documentaries, the film is filled with
an authentic flavor, developing with an urgent tempo. The cast are
excellent in portraying they care for their families with wrong method
so it looks like they are communicating on the wrong channels thus
counterproductive. Jason Bateman is superb in portraying a concerned
father who tried to save his son after realizing how much he has
neglected him. The large portion of computer chat is displayed by text
overlaying on head shots of the authors. And here is what we see how
good the acting is, especially young Colin Ford who showed a strong
sense of guilt on an innocent face, but also deep concern for his
friend.

The characters are not lovable but you cannot help but feel sorry for
them and keep asking what went wrong. It also makes us reflect what we
need to do, as parents, as classmate, as a regular net shopper to be
really connected with people we care amid this overflow of information
technology. Just turn off your computer, drop your mobile, and go see
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm going to keep this a simple review, there's plenty of longer ones
if you want that. I went to this movie with zero expectations. I wanted
to see a movie today and this just happened to be 1 of the 4 playing at
my small theater. The movie was very well done. All 3 stories were
intriguing and believable. Many sad stories such as these are often
over-dramatized and make me hate them. However, I found this one to hit
the drama level perfectly. They make you feel for the characters and
believe their actions (to which I'll say all of the actors did an
AMAZING job, particularly the kids).

I almost wish I could see a feature-length movie of 2 of the 3 stories
in this. Those being the bullied kid and the other of cyber sex ring.
Those 2 were definitely hit their mark. I thought the 3rd, with the
couple who lost their money to identity theft, was good as well...but
perhaps not to the same level as the others. To be fair though, the
other 2 might just have been more intriguing of a topic for me.

Just a quick comment on the Rating: Personally, I think this movie
should have been rated PG-13. There was only light violence (not
gloritized, either) and very brief, tasteful nudity. All while 2 of the
stories were relating to very real scenarios related to kids. Meh,
maybe I'm just being silly thinking kids can handle movies about topics
they clearly live through.
<|_=00=_|>
Why hasn't this movie been raved about? One of the best I have seen in
a long time. Don't even think it got a cinema release in Australia.
This is the sort of movie that should have Oscar nominations and a must
see. An ensemble cast and all are outstanding. Jason Bateman is such an
under rated actor but can just about do anything, probably hurt by
Arrested Development although I must admit I did like that show. If you
liked movies like Crash you should enjoy this. 3 stories going on at
the same time which also have some intermingling, if there is such a
word. IMDb rating is a bit low and I would rate it in the high 8's even
getting close to a 9. Have banged on a bit as I didn't realize you
needed to submit 10 lines of text to post a review/comment.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has three parallel stories, with one important thing in
common: real lives unravel as their presence on the media, especially
the social media, spirals out of control. Moreover, as it turns out,
each story ends up intersecting with one or both of the others.

There is Ben, a lonely teen who is hideously deceived and then
callously exposed on the Web by two mean-spirited schoolmates. This
drives Ben to make a grave decision that will leave his future hanging
by a thread and his parents and sister reeling.

Then there are Cindy and Derek, who are trying to grapple with the
death of their baby. As if that weren't enough of an issue in their
life, they discover their credit cards have been maxed out. The private
eye they hire, Mike, backtracks Cindy's and Derek's every online move,
with unexpected revelations. Moreover, the result of Mike's
investigation turns out to compound the problem rather than solve it.

Finally, there is Nina, an up-and-coming TV news reporter who gets her
hands on the life story of Kyle, an older teen engaging in a salacious
line of work performed online in front of a camera. Nina's TV piece is
at first widely applauded, but its broadcast unleashes an avalanche of
trouble for both Nina and Kyle, as well as for other people in their
career lives.

A ready interpretation of the title "Disconnect" is to associate it
with the dangers of "disconnecting" with real people in the real world.
And indeed: people in this movie do communicate a lot via text
messaging, and in chat rooms. In these spheres, things are sometimes
not what they seemand neither are people: two characters make up
another, and communicate with someone else pretending to be that
person, with potentially lethal consequences.

But the title "Disconnect" can also be taken as an imperative:
"Disconnect!" Log off already! Otherwise, you will forget real
existences cannot be edited, backed up, deleted, and restored like
virtual ones. Actually, real life in this movie interferes with virtual
plots in a way that even the latter take unintended twists and turns.

It turns out Mike not only changes Cindy and Derek's life (they set out
to make a dramatic move as a result of Mike's investigations), he also
is forcibly involved in the story around Ben. Ben's dad, in turn, is a
legal counsel at the TV station where Nina works; that way, he is drawn
on two fronts into the fallout from risky behavior of teens on the
Internet.

While this is Nina's immediate connection to another story in this
movie, the mere fact that she is a TV personality probably superimposes
her story on the others: just as everybody is online these days,
everybody still consumes sensational TV news. (Need it even be said:
when you turn on your TV, you also "disconnect" from real life.)

The three stories progress at a similar pace and climax at the same
time. After all the scheming, searching, plotting, and just plain
misunderstanding emanating from cell phones and computer keyboards, the
scenes suddenly stop in freeze-frame. Real-world existences clash in an
ultimate, inevitable collision. The disconnect comes home to roost.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie "DISCONNECT", clearly and dramatically depicts how our
culture is now well-woven into the INTERNET fabric of reality. It is an
intelligent and skillfully done film. The script is competent and well
sculpted, with three simultaneous stories,but the final wrap-up scenes
were (story-wise)oddly unbelievable, canned, pre-made, or "off the
shelf" for lack of a better term.

There is a large percentage of the population(i.e.my wife and I) that
are not fully in tune (or dependent) on the current, internet-laced way
of life, but I felt this movie effectively plugged us into
understanding and relating to it.

Although the film resides in the Arts & Entertainment category, it also
can be perceived as a valuable, cinematographic core-sample of the
current culture and society,in ways that "Easy Rider", "The Best days
of our lives", and others movies have done in the past.

It shows the"now"of our culture and society in humanistic, suspenseful,
and moving ways.

I highly recommend seeing the film if you have the time.
<|_=00=_|>
I have not seen a movie like "Disconnect" in a long while. It has this
style of telling about the lives of various different seemingly
unconnected characters working up to one common story that intertwines
all of them together. A decade ago, this style was very popular. This
was first brought to prominence by the acclaimed Mexican movie "Amores
Perros", and then we saw it in "Traffic", "21 Grams", culminating in
the Oscar Best Picture Award given to "Crash." "Disconnect" brings us
back to those days when complex intersecting story lines ruled the
cinemas.

"Disconnect" leads us into the lives of four characters and their
families. What all of them have in common is that they all have been a
victim of some sort of Internet crime and abuse. The start of the film
was very discomforting to watch. We witness how various internet chat
sites can be so dangerous. This is true whatever the nature of this
chat site is, whether this is a private pornographic live chat room or
a support group chat room for bereaved families. We will see sexual
exploitation, bullying, fraud, identity theft, and various other
internet crimes in action. We will also see the adverse effects these
crimes have on the victims and their loved ones.

The actors were all very good in their roles. I recognize a few of
them. Jason Bateman (from "Horrible Bosses") is the busy lawyer whose
introverted son was bullied at school. Paula Patton (from "Mission
Impossible Ghost Protocol") is a lonely neglected wife who confides her
problems on a chat room with someone who could have just stolen all
their money. Andrea Riseborough (from "Oblivion") is a television
journalist determined to go up in her profession even if it would cause
problems to the young man who granted her the interview which would
land her on CNN. The other young actors playing the bully, the bullied,
and the sex site boy toy all gave memorable performances as well.

The pace of the movie is slow, and I think this was deliberate to make
us feel how insidious these crimes can be. They can be happening to us
without us ever knowing about it, until the consequences hit us
squarely on the face. The director makes us of very dramatic camera
angles and apt visual effects to emphasize his points. The editing done
was very effective to create an intense feeling of dread and tension.
Despite the PG rating given this film locally, the topic of the film is
very adult, as well as the treatment, with scenes of nudity, sex, drugs
and violence.

This is a very serious and very thought-provoking film for this
Internet Age we are in right now. In our obsession to remain connected
to our virtual world on our favorite social media sites, are we
actually being disconnected from our very own families, and other flesh
and blood people around us? A must-see for all netizens. Highly
recommended. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Disconnect (2012) 

**** (out of 4)

Excellent character study looking at a group of people who have their
lives damaged due to activities that they do through the internet. One
story deals with a married couple (Paula Patton, Alexander Skarsgard)
who are mourning the loss of their child when they discover that their
identity has been stolen. A lawyer (Jason Bateman) tries to understand
what happened to his son that made him do something drastic. A
television reporter (Andrea Riseborough) uses an internet sex actor
(Max Thieriot) for her own needs. A former cop (Frank Grillo) discovers
that his son might have done something morally wrong. DISCONNECT
eventually brings all of these stories together. There's no question
that none of these stories are masterpieces and I think it's fair to
say that many of them play out exactly like you'd expect them to.
Normally this here would kill a movie but director Henry Alex Rubin and
screenwriter Andrew Stern do a terrific job at giving us characters we
care about, want to know more about and this helps carry the entire
picture. I think this film offers up a very good concept of how people
have lost touch with reality and sometimes enter dangerous situations
online simply because they have nothing better to do or they're looking
for some sort of connection that they can't find in their own lives.
The film really does a good job at explaining all of these characters
and really developing all of them so that you really do feel as if you
know these people and understand everything they're doing and why. It
certainly doesn't hurt that we're given so many excellent performances.
Both Bateman and Grillo really stand out as parents who fear that they
have let their children down. Thieriot, making waves on 'Bates Motel,'
also is very good in his part. The entire cast really does shine and
this here says a lot about their talent but also the screenplay, which
gives them so much to do. Again, I think many people will see the
ending coming but it really doesn't matter because of the emotional
connection that you get with the characters. DISCONNECT is certainly a
gem of a picture that shows what a great script, direction and acting
can do.
