
I'm really sorry, but this a major disappointment.

No, I didn't expect miracles or something close to the original Alien.
I've been following Scott for 30 years - and it's clear that he has
been on the decline since Gladiator and Black Hawk Down.

I liked a few of his later movies like A Good Year - but most have been
rather flat and uninspired.

One thing I've noticed, is that he's gotten increasingly complacent
with his own "point of view" in terms of historical facts and how
things work in reality. It's like he has a complete disregard for
plausible motivations or factual information about how things work.

Case in point - there's a scene in the movie where a certain character
has to have an operation performed on her body - and it involves
slicing directly through the skin and muscle-tissue of her abdomen.
After the procedure, she's simply "stitched together" by metal clips in
like 3 seconds - and with a bit of local anesthetic, she continues to
move and jump about with some moaning. Ehm, you CAN'T have any kind of
normal movement with your muscle tissue completely severed - and there
was absolutely no healing involved. Just one of a series of ridiculous
events.

The plot is entirely juvenile and cliché stuff with "profound"
questions like who created us. For some reason, the beings who created
us also want to kill us - and it seems to involve incredibly elaborate
genetic engineering that also happened to kill most of them in their
remote "lab facility". They're CLEARLY much more powerful than we are -
and they could just bomb the hell out of us, or do it in a thousand
simpler ways. But no, they seem to want to utilize excessively
elaborate and dangerous genetic modification or infestation - that they
can't even control.

They also like to record recent events with some kind of holographic
recorder device that is unable to render clear images, only some cool
ghostly images that I bet Scott loved to play with. But they're quite
flexible in how they let you play recordings of their security
procedure - so you can access their systems without effort.

Characters are void of personality and growth, they're REALLY stupid -
and they like to freak out for no reason, and they like to stay calm
and playful when there IS a reason - like when encountering a nasty
looking cobra-worm - an alien - for the first time in history.

Among these faceless people - we have some willing to gleefully commit
suicide by ramming an alien ship, because they like their captain, and
they're required to do so because he "can't fly worth a damn" - despite
him being the primary pilot hired by a billionaire to do nothing but
fly the ship.

We have a religious scientist who concludes that she's found our
creators, based on: "It's what I choose to believe".

Then we have the very same religious scientist look at an alien "head"
they brought back - and she notices some strange growth on it. She then
spends 2 seconds thinking and concludes that this is obviously some
kind of "foreign cells" (impressive deduction, I must say) - and she
decides to stimulate the cells with electricity - just to see what
happens. No research - no caution - no nothing.

We have people who decide to open the door to their ship, seemingly
with no thought process, despite having just faced complete chaos by
extremely hostile alien forces - because one of their crew mates seems
to be lying in front of the door. This while other crew mates have just
been taken over by some kind of alien infestation.

Then we have the boyfriend of said religious scientist (a douche) who
decides that the air in an alien environment is safe to breathe because
his device tells him it is - and he immediately removes his helmet. A
classic Hollywood scientist moment, and clearly there's no need to
worry about biological contaminants in a place like that.

This movie is FULL of this kind of utterly implausible behavior and
random decisions.

It has a couple of "for effect" gore scenes - but Scott manages to
include ZERO tension along with them. As a result, they're mildly
disgusting - but they have no lasting effect whatsoever.

The "aliens" that are a part of this movie all look like plastic -
because of overly smooth and pale skin. They look like Lovecraft
creatures without a much-needed paint-job.

We have a horribly predictable, pointless and wasted twist involving
Guy Pearce and a certain other cast member. 

We have an android, well-acted by Fassbender, who seems to be fully
random in his decisions and motivations. Few actions made sense in any
context - not to me anyway.

The music was overwrought and didn't fit with the mood of the film, and
it seemed like one theme being repeated endlessly. A surprise, given
Scott's usual flair for good music.

I think Lindelof is a complete and total hack - who only got the job
because he was the "yes-man" who could match Scott's ego. This is
pretty obvious in interviews - where Lindelof always manages to
publicly kiss Scott's behind.

1 Star for Fassbender's performance. 

1 Star for the amazingly detailed visuals. 

1 Star for how the above combine to form the excellent beginning.

Now, it's just a matter of leaning back - musing over a thousand
different people coming up with a thousand different explanations -
each being the "correct" interpretation of this deep and
thought-provoking masterpiece.

Going by the IMDb rating, I can do nothing but stay mesmerized by how
efficient it is to rely on the "Emperor's New Clothes" effect and let
hype do the rest. Stay real Scott, Lindelof and Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
Prometheus is the story of a trillion-dollar mission to discover the
origins of human life on a distant planet. Basically, this is supposed
to be the greatest exploration undertaken in the history of mankind.

So who do they send? A gaggle of fractious goons whose collective
scientific nous is rivalled only by that of the Three Stooges. Within
minutes of touching down (conveniently beside the only 'man-made'
structures on the planet, a'la 1960s Star Trek) the 'scientists' are
yanking off their helmets, on the basis of 'it seems fine to me',
dipping their fingers into strange organic ooze, and lugging a severed
alien head back to an unquarantined spaceship in a sandwich bag.

Once there, they speedily discover the meaning of life. Then, while one
of them gets a bit drunk, his two female companions decide it would be
useful to stimulate the head electrically to reanimate it. They don't
say why. They give it a bit too much juice, then too little,then dither
over too much or too little like a couple of schoolgirls fiddling with
a dicky bunsen burner, while the most important scientific discovery in
human history waggles its ears and rolls its eyes - before eventually
blowing up like a frog in a microwave.

Are the scientists abashed? Is the man angry? Do they all calm down and
remember they have degrees in clever things, not diplomas in macramé?
Do they heck.

The WHOLE MOVIE is a litany of ludicrous so-called science, schoolboy
errors, and pseudo-profundity about the origin of species. Ironic
really, when none of the crew would have a chance in hell in any sort
of contest governed by Darwinian rules.

Crass stupidity is rampant in every department. Hi-tech helmets record
every heartbeat - apparently until anything worth recording happens;
stranded crewmates are abandoned to their fate in favour of a quick
shag, and the spaceship door is opened to anyone who comes a-knocking.
Although, after hitting the 'welcome' button, Idris Elba does do a
double take and go 'Hold on a second!' but that might have just been an
involuntary ad lib at his own character's baffling idiocy.

There is spectacular cinematography and effects, but not one iota of
originality has been squandered on plot, subtext, tension or characters
- which are as shallow as the Prometheus's muddy little gene pool.

Ridley Scott is a hero of mine, but Prometheus is not the intelligent,
emotionally satisfying prequel that Alien deserves. It's a derisory,
empty experience - and anyone who loved Alien is surely too old and too
smart to be fobbed off with something this bad just because it's shiny.
<|_=00=_|>
Lindelhoffed /'LinDelHôfd/

Verb:

1 a : Similar to a "Rick Roll", when one is conned into viewing a
series of moving pictures with no conclusive finale, despite the viewer
investing a lot of emotion and time in the story.

b (1) : a bottom feeder (2) : to Lindelhoff, much like a cock tease,
when a sexual partner brings the other to the point of climax but then
bails just before reaching orgasm.

PROMETHEUS Plot holes AND IRRITATIONS ***SPOILERS***

1. The dreams sequence. David can watch Shaw's dreams. Amazingly this
technology also cuts from scene to scene like a movie camera...Please.
No one dreams like that.

2. How did they randomly find the temple so quick? This is an entire
planet surface!

3. Why was the landing so soft and easy?

4. Why does Fifield start screaming at Shaw like that? Calm down
mate..jeez..And later on with an Alien cobra he is cool as ice.

5. Why does that moron Buddy Holly scientist try and touch the cobra
alien? not once....not twice...but 3 TIMES!!!

6. Why on earth would a scientist remove their helmets in a possibly
infected temple? I am just a civilian and even I understand the concept
of VIRUS CONTAMINATION ON AN ALIEN FRIGGIN PLANET. They then have the
cheek to talk about Shaw's strict quarantine fail-safe
procedures...please

7. What does this Black Goo do exactly? Accelerate worm growth? Infect
crew members? Cause pregnancies? Create life? Pick one and stick to it
please

8. Why does Ford straight away start giving the head electricity for
kicks? Do they not have procedures? What is this fun with Frankenstein?

9. Why does the head explode?

10. Why are the medical staff so damn careless with a possibly disease
ridden and bacteria infested decapitated head? I swear they didn't even
wear plastic gloves.

11. How did Shaw know the Jockey was heading to Earth to destroy it?
Pretty big assumption from a couple of punches thrown.

12. How does David know the Space Jockey is heading to kill Shaw on the
Medical Bay?

13. How does Shaw know her baby will attack the Jockey?

14. i was really amazed that Shaw has this 'baby' but fails to mention
the horrific and super extraordinary situation she had just been
through. ''oh hey guys, ha ha, nearly forgot. FYI, you won't believe
what just happened to me on the way here''....''i just gave birth to an
alien..'' ''yeah, i know CRAZY right, considering i had sex only 10
BLOODY HRS AGO!!''

15. -The whole Vickers' Star Wars 'Father' line...

16. -The 'bet' between the co-pilots was cringe-worthy

17. HUGE ONEHow the hell does Shaw walk after abdominal surgery? If
abdominal muscle is cut you can NOT walk, the muscle needs to be sewn
backBut no, a few staples and she is good to go

18. Why does the tentacle creature have tentacles from the evil Planet
X?

19. Why do the space jockeys allow any old tramp to walk in an use
their security systems?

20. Why does the space jockey want to kill, kill and killYou'd think
an advanced race would be a little civilised?

21. What was the point of Guy Pearce as Weyland? Why was he even there?
So he just assumed this temple would contain a fountain of
life..right.I guess he 'chose to believe' toof**k me

Honestly there are so many more I can't even write them allBut this
movie has more plot-holes than the Iraqi Navy
<|_=00=_|>
WARNING: LOTS OF SPOILERS.

Synopsis: Two archaeologists find some old drawings of an alien and a
star map. They "choose to believe" that the aliens created human life.
So they travel to the planet identified in the drawings. When they
arrive at the planet, the members of the expedition all work against
each other even though they all want the same thing. Each member then
repeated does really stupid things until most of them are dead. The
film ends before we see the final stupid decision actually kill the
last surviving members.

Nothing the characters did made any sense: 

> The robot without feelings falls in love with a woman. 

> The robot then risks her life because he wants to preserve the
parasite inside her. Why? No reason. 

> The expedition is searching for life, but the biologist wants to
return to the ship when they find a 2000 year old corpse. 

> The geologist also wants to return to the ship rather than look at
rocks. 

> The geologist then gets lost despite being in charge of the mapping
device. 

> The top boss pays for the expedition, but pretends he's dead and
hides on the ship. Why? No reason. 

> The leader of the expedition refuses to cooperate with either the
robot or the archaeologists - even though they all want the same thing.

> The alien tries to kill everyone, so the surviving characters decide
to go to the alien's home planet to talk to them.

Another issue that kept annoying me was the inaccurate terminology
used. There was no reason for it - it was just wrong. For example, at
one point the archaeologists talk about abiogenesis and the biologist
weirdly starts talking about evolution. Later on, a head exploded (like
in Scanners) and the scientist says "Why did that head combust?". I
don't expect screenwriters to have degrees, but they should at least
look up words in the dictionary.

The CGI is good and the acting would be fine if the actors had been
given something worthwhile to do. But every other aspect of the film
was a disappointing waste of time.

1/10
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at a midnight preview and I was really looking forward to
it. I'm a big fan of Alien, but I was really disappointed; this is a
bloated mess.

In Alien, the creature presented an abstract threat to earth but the
plot centered on the immediate, physical threat to the crew. In
Prometheus, the threat is purely abstract and while SOME bad stuff
happens to the characters, they are all unsympathetic so it is
difficult to care. Characters are established with simplistic dialog;
this is the cool black guy, this is the incautious explorer, this is
the obnoxious mercenary cyberpunk (who, for no reason, is also a
scientist), this is the uptight corporate type.

The scientists don't behave like scientists, they don't talk like
scientists. The nerdy biologist (who has to walk off to be monster
fodder later), walks away from an alien corpse because it's not his
field of interest. Huh? Archeologists suddenly turn into medical
experts and people exploring an alien ecosystem for the first time
remove helmets without regard for contamination of the environment or
themselves. Often, the only justification for character actions seems
to be to set up later plot points.

Alien worked because it focused on believable characters stuck in a
terrible situation, without that believability the film would be
greatly lessened. Prometheus, lacking that, is uninteresting.

Prometheus puts me in mind of Avatar. The use of 3D is excellent and
the art direction is amazing. However, as with Avatar, technical
excellence cannot make up for a terrible plot, sub-standard
characterisation and meaningless dialogue.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh the hype. I cannot recall anticipating a movie so much. Matrix
Reloaded may have come close, and the feeling of disappointment is all
too familiar.

This is the first time I have been compelled to write a review on this
site, mainly because most of my friends haven't seen it yet and I just
have to vent my feelings somewhere. But before I begin that cathartic
release let me say that this is no way a bad movie. I never once had
the urge to walk out and I expect I will watch it again some months
down the line. I don't feel the anger I experienced after Matrix 2 or
Indy 4 but I certainly don't have the buzz of having just watched a
truly great movie.

Lets start with the storyline. I think anyone going to watch this is
fully aware by now that this is q prequel to Alien, and trust me,
you'll have been slapped so hard in the face with this fact by the end
of the film that your cheeks will be stinging. Time spent on plot
background is over in a matter of seconds. If you've seen the trailers
then you've pretty much seen the reason they're off to another planet.
From there the storyline follows the usual tried and tested Alien(s)
method, i.e. They find stuff, it ain't good and people start dying.
What's wrong with that? You cry. Nothing is wrong with that but from
then on in in you can't help yourself comparing it to the other two
films. And that's where the wheels start falling off.

The first two Alien movies were filled with strong characters who acted
and behaved as you felt they should when their friends and colleagues
start dying around them. In Prometheus however they may well have all
been androids as Rapace apart, they were all taking death and
destruction remarkably in their stride. Even one of the best scenes in
the whole movie (Rapace's DIY Cesarean) is just glossed over like it
didn't happen when . She escapes quarantine, removes a baby squid from
her stomach and then runs into the others covered in blood only to be
mocked for lacking scientific fibre. Theron may just have well not been
there for all she adds and will someone please tell me why they felt it
necessary to employ Guy Pearce to play an old man? Here's an idea, just
hire an old man to do it instead!

Even the characters taken as a whole are a rather strange bunch. In
Alien they were a mining vessel (believable). In Aliens they took some
hard asses because they were expecting trouble (believable). However on
this occasion a billionaire thinks he'll take himself half way across
the universe fully expecting to meet another civilisation who may or
may not be hostile and who does he take with him? A couple of
scientists, his daughter and a bunch of misfits. Oh but its OK, they
have flamethrowers and a few pistols.

Moving on to the bad guys and here we have something which I thought
was rather good, as an idea. The concept of humans having evolved from
an alien race is a good one, and one of the more believable parts of
the film. It was a good idea tackled well. Now if we'd just stayed with
that idea and made a film about it I may have been a much happier man.
However Scott had decided from the outset that this would be an alien
prequel and we were subjected to this absurd notion that they were
sinply created by a squid impregnating a super human. Bingo! Quite why
this hadn't already happened on the planet before is a mystery, as is
why the Alien's don't come out looking more human every time one pops
out of our stomachs. And so to the final scene which I suspect Scott
saw in a ream one night and built an entire film around it. I can only
compare it to Darth Vader's unavailing in Star Wars 3. Laughable.

As a rule I don't like prequels and sequels. They all too often lead to
feelings of anger and dismay. But I thought if anyone is going to do it
right it would be Ridley Scott. Alien was his baby and there's no way
he'd make a mess of it. Well now I feel its time for a public appeal.
Will somebody please make a decent ORIGINAL sci-fi movie. PLEASE!
<|_=00=_|>
SUCKED BIG TIME! The story was all over the place, most of the
characters were completely unnecessary and underdeveloped, and there
were no creatures to talk about really. I wasn't even tensed up for a
second, let alone being scared.

Can you imagine a biologist guy, signed up for a mission to explore a
different race, shitting his pants and literally leaving the scene at
the first sight of an alien body that's been dead for 2000 years? Well,
Ridley Scott could. However, the same guy goes ape schit over a real,
moving alien cobra-thing and wants to cuddle her! Perfectly consistent
character writing! And what the hell was that android guy trying to do
with his plots and schemes? What was your plan? Who actually did you
serve? And Shaw who did nothing to fill in Ripley's shoes... She
attacks the crew, performs a surgery -I'm not even gonna touch that
one- that probably overthrows a plan in motion, comes out covered in
blood and no one even says "Hey! What the heck?" and they go on another
expedition together? And what was that space jockey's problem!? Relax,
dude!! I mean you have to be a really mean bastard, consumed with rage
to come out of a crashed ship and go after a woman you missed the
chance to beat up before.

The final suicide mission could easily be completed with 1 guy.

I will never understand what Shaw hoped to achieve by going after "our
creators" to "find the answers". What answer are you gonna find with a
beheaded android by your side from a race that clearly thrives on rage
and hostility? And finally, this was the most UNNECESSARY use of Guy
Pearce ever in a movie.

Making fun of a Ridley Scott movie... Wow, I thought THAT would never
happen.
<|_=00=_|>
I can forgive the unanswered questions about the motives and biology of
the aliens in Prometheus. After all, they're aliens! What I can't
forgive is the awful, awful protocols shown by the human scientists,
technicians, and spaceship crew throughout the movie.

To begin with, a legitimate scientific expedition would have started by
releasing weather and observation satellites to orbit the planetoid for
weeks, perhaps months before Prometheus ever landed. This would
determine the most likely places to hunt for aliens, rather than just
luckily finding alien structures. Then, the small, remote-controlled
probes would be sent into the alien installations to map them
thoroughly and take air and soil samples. When pictures of the dead
aliens came back, the scientist would spend many hours determining
likely scenarios and procedures to avoid a similar fate before setting
a foot inside.

The biggest mistake the movie makes, though, is something I haven't
seen discussed anywhere. People have written about the folly of the
crew taking off their space suit helmets without checking for microbes
or other contaminants. It's not just the air quality that could cause
illness or injury. What hasn't been mentioned is the danger of the
humans contaminating the alien environment. Good scientists are
concerned to the point of paranoia about destroying a pristine
environment and invalidating their results. This is why Mars rovers are
sterilized before they leave Earth. Once an alien planet is
contaminated, there's no way to know what's alien and what's not. The
crew of Prometheus would have to undergo rigorous decontamination
procedures both when exiting the ship and on their return.

Another question that I haven't seen discussed elsewhere is why would
an expedition as well-financed and equipped as Prometheus not have more
than one robot? Weyland would want to have as much redundancy as
possible to maximize success. Moreover, the humans would need to be
cross trained, just as astronauts are now, so that in case of injury or
illness there would be someone to fill in the gaps. This goes for the
scientists, flight crew, security, and every other function.

Wouldn't Prometheus be crewed with the absolute best people in every
role? People who knew what the mission was and who had trained together
for months before leaving Earth. There is no excuse for second-best in
a first-contact mission that's exploring a dangerous alien world.

It's one thing to have a haunted-house movie filled with naïve
teenagers, but it's quite another to see supposed top scientists do
dumb things. With a little more thought, Prometheus could have
addressed the plot holes I and others have noted, and as a result been
a tighter film with more tension and surprises.
<|_=00=_|>
I must admit that the special effects and overall scale of the film is
epic. But for crying out loud the plot is thin as paper and the writing
is very very bad. None of the characters are acting in a logical way.
There is no explainable motivations behind their actions and the story
behind the alien race contradicts itself. After watching it I have a
feeling it's just a collection of cool ideas put together without any
logic to link them. The film pretends to raise some philosophical
questions but it's done in a very childish way and in the end you can
"choose to believe" whatever you want despite the evidence to the
contrary. 

**************************SPOILER*****************************

They come to this alien planet (not Alien alien, just extraterrestrial)
and decide to land immediately without any surveillance from the orbit.
Luckily out of the whole planet the place they happened to fly over had
alien structures so they land there. Only then the scientists learn
from the mission director what they are allowed to do. They go to this
alien structure with their hi-tech equipment and an android. The
android presses all the buttons he can find like 5 year old and
nobody's surprised that he doesn't explain anything. Apparently he
mastered a couple of ancient earth languages but that's no explanation
to why he understands alien writings. The guy operating the hi-tech
probes that map the structure suddenly flips out when he sees an alien
corpse while everyone else is cool, decides to go back to the ship and
gets lost in the tunnels. In the structure they decide that the air is
breathable on the basis of it's chemical composition and take off their
helmets. Who in their right mind exposes oneself to an alien
environment. You don't know what can be in this air especially that
you're looking for alien life. Then out of nowhere a sand storm appears
as if triggered by their actions. So they retreat and they take the
alien head with them to the ship while the geo-expert most competent on
finding his way back gets lost in the structure. In the ship they do
decontamination of the alien head but they fail to decontaminate their
own heads after the exposure to the alien environment. And now the best
happens: The paleontologist/archaeologist suddenly becomes an expert on
alien physiology and just by looking at the head decides that there are
some new cell outgrowths on the forehead. They decide to reanimate a
2000(?) year old head by using electroshocks after which the head
explodes. (What was the point of that scene? To show their
incompetence?) Then they examine the alien DNA under the microscope(!)
and the analysis tells them it matches human DNA. (Wow really? After
millions of years of evolution of human species it's still the same? Oh
wait, you can "choose to believe" so. Yet the opening scene of the
alien committing suicide and dispersing in the water with cool particle
effects suggests that he initiated all the life on the planet. But then
again the ancient cultures worshipped the solar system the alien
structures were on. So maybe we are their direct descendants. But it's
not where the alien race comes from. It's just a storage place for
biological weapon. Why would the aliens leave an "invitation" to their
military base?) Meanwhile the android opens one of the vases they found
in the structure like he knew exactly what he's doing. All in his room
without any secure containment. He brakes open a vial of unidentified
liquid which for all he knows could be kryptonite or cool-aid and
decides to roofie one of the scientist with it. Meanwhile the guys that
were afraid of the alien corpse and got lost in the structure decide to
make friends with a snakelike life form that emerged from a puddle and
get raped by it. The roofied scientist gets sick but before that he
manages to have sex with his colleague (Elizabeth) and impregnate her
with an alien life form. Then the android scans the Elizabeth on the
next day like he knew what he was looking for and tries to restrain her
so she will give birth to an alien. (Why would he want to do that???)
She escapes and uses automated surgical chamber to remove the alien
from her belly. The procedure cuts through her whole abdomen and then
staples it back together. From now on she runs around in all action
scenes with her severed abdominal muscles. (The least they could do is
show some hi-tech quick healing procedure or something.) She escapes
and finds Wayland to be on the ship and he's looking for cure to old
age. No one is surprised she has a gushing wound across her abdomen and
they embark on another trip to the alien structure which turned out to
be a spaceship. They revive one of the alien crew members which goes on
a killing rampage after a chat with the android (no explanation why)
and decides to fly the spaceship to eradicate life on earth.
Fortunately after a quick chat with the female protagonist the pilots
enthusiastically decide to go kamikaze on the alien spaceship and die
with smiles on their faces. Then there is the nerve wrecking scene of
the doughnut spaceship rolling and chasing Elizabeth and Meredith in a
straight line when all they had to do to avoid it was to step aside.
The alien pilot somehow survives the crash and comes back with a
revenge on his mind. It is defeated by the foetus Elizabeth gave birth
to which grew to a gigantic size on absolutely nothing in a matter of
hours closed in the operation chamber. In the end Elizabeth joins
forces with the android who poisoned her lover and tried to kill her as
well and they fly off to find the home planet of the alien race.
<|_=00=_|>
OK this is a lame title for a review, but prometheus kind of deserves a
lame intro. 

The move opens up very promising, with epic landscapes and a
beautifully done intro and epilogue. Then there's a scene where we see
David doing his every day chores and keeping himself busy while the
rest of the crew is still in cryo-sleep. This scene is utterly genius
and should'v really set the tone for the rest of the movie, but all
what comes after is really disappointing. 

the films builds up quite nice, but until half of the movie it slips
away in to unnecessary dialogs. probably to cover up the major plot
holes. I was sitting in the theater just asking myself: why are they
doing that? Why is this character stereotype in the movie? How did they
find this place so fast? Why in the hell do they have a switchboard
that turns on holograms about what happened last time and who put them
there? What is up with the zombie??? and so on.

If all these questions were compensated with raw action, or tongue in
cheek humor, i could have just waved it away; But the film propagates
itself as an intellectual, epic adventure about the beginning of
mankind.

For a guy who made brilliant films such as Alien, Bladerunner,
Gladiator etc. You have to wonder, why is he satisfied with a lame sci
fi movie that any other director could have made...

and i hear he's planning a sequel to blade runner... Please, will
somebody tell him he has to stop before he destroys his name as a
brilliant director...
