
Multiple people have compared this to Neeson's 2008 release of "Taken."
Both have a similar concept; Liam goes on a fast-paced journey to
retrieve something special that has been taken from him. This time it
is not his daughter; it is his mind. Unlike "Taken," "Unknown" is more
of a suspense mystery than an action flick. There are some chases and
fight scenes, but that is not the main focus. The movie's plot is focus
and it is unique for it is unpredictable. We are confused like Neeson's
character and there are times we don't know if he will succeed. There
are multiple twists and unlike most mystery thrillers, it took me more
than half through the film to figure it all out. 

In short, "Unknown" is a fairly decent mystery thriller. Good
performances. Good story for a mystery. Good music. Good
cinematographyI particularly like the whole gray, dreary atmosphere
that reflects the film's location's bleak weather. Good twists. Good
suspense the sound mixers must've had a kick in adding emphasis on
sound effects to startle the audience. The one thing I will note is
that Liam Neeson is really showing his age. This is not necessarily a
bad thing; on the contrary, it helps his character out. It gets
tiresome that Hollywood always uses the generic 30-something year old
actor with smashing abs who is tossed into a terrible situation. It is
nice to see an aging actor play an upper middle-aged man who has
perhaps lost his mind while running away from people trying to kill
him. 

My rating: ***/****
<|_=00=_|>
I guess if you really want to put an American in a harsh situation,
have him lose his memory in a foreign country. For Americans that's
probably the closest thing to Hell on Earth, right up there with being
denied Monday Night Football in Hi-Def. (Just kidding) A few films have
similar premises of an American being a fish out of his own waters:
"the Bourne Identity", "Frantic", and "Seven Days Seven Nights".
Hollywood is also replete with stories about people either losing their
memories or simply being "lost" inside a political situation because of
forces beyond their control, such as "the Changeling", Hitchcock's
"Spellbound", "the Truman Show"; even "Total Recall" and "Invasion of
the Body Snatchers" have similarities.

The one element that saves these movies is the premise of the main
character being in essentially a "no win situation". Despite how
contrived or "unrealistic" the whole plot is, if the character is
interesting enough, and the situation compelling enough, then you tend
to run with it. Part of the fun is learning the greater story along
with the character. It may have become a rather over-used plot devise,
but it tends to work, in part because pieces of the puzzle can be
thrown at the character without him understanding what it means.

"Unknown" falls into this category of a character being trapped in a
situation he does not completely understand, and the story is told
almost entirely from the his point of view. After a near-death
experience in Berlin, an American wakes up in a hospital room and his
only knowledge is that he is Dr Martin Harris and he was there for a
Biotech conference. But he has lost his identification along the way,
and no one seems to believe him. He even returns to the hotel where he
was supposed to be staying and finds his wife. Except his wife not only
denies him but appears to be married to a man also by the name of Dr
Martin Harris. Will the real Martin Harris please stand up? Starts to
ring of a suspense version of the old television show "To Tell the
Truth" where three people would claim they were the same person, and
panelists would try to figure out who was the "real" person.

I don't see "and the nominees for Best Actor are Liam Neeson for
Uknown" in the near future, but at the same time it really is Neeson
who makes the entire film work. His honesty as an actor delivers a
performance right on the money that kept me on the edge of my seat most
of the way, to the point where I really wanted to know how he would get
out of this. I never quite fell out of my chair, the way I did when I
saw the original "the Bourne Identity" with Richard Chamberlain, but
"Unknown" is first-rate entertainment of the escapist variety.

The two leading ladies also keep the entertainment level high,
particularly January Jones (of Mad Men fame) who plays against type, as
the loyal wife turned traitor. And Diane Kruger as a Bosnian refugee
who is working in Berlin to eventually get her immigration papers
reluctantly befriends Neeson and becomes an integral part of the plot.
Roger Ebert in his review points out that a lot of things are too
coincidental. Yeah...it's a suspense/action movie. So what else is new?
If there's anything I can say about "Unknown" is you'll never find
yourself looking at your watch, which is pretty high praise these days.
<|_=00=_|>
An effective thriller with a good twist in the ending. Not since The
Sixth Sense has a movie given me such a surprise at its ending. Liam
Nieson keeps your attention fixed on the action throughout the movie,
although some of his lines did not match the scenes or his character.
If someone is trying to kill you, maybe some emotion would be shown.
The car accident at the beginning is very realistic and makes Liams
amnesia credible. The car chase scenes in the movie will also keep the
action buffs happy, although the black car driven by the assassin is a
bit too corny to believe . Bruno Ganz as an aging former Stasi agent
gives a stand-out performance and Diane Kruger supports Nieson without
the usual Hollywood theme of girl following for hero. Maybe its because
Nieson is old enough to be her father. This film is no masterpiece but
if your looking for a couple of hours entertainment with an interesting
ending this will fit the bill.
<|_=00=_|>
It's one thing to be told not to think too hard about what you're about
to see, it's another to be helped enormously in that task by a skilled
director employing equally skilled actors. All the principals here are
in top notch form and, though I enjoy trying to measure how much
license was taken by a screenplay, this film never once made me feel
cheated or resentful.

Is it a brilliant film? Probably not, but it's devilishly entertaining.
The action scenes here are matched by the quiet drama scenes and that's
unusual. I don't really think either sex can really claim it entirely.

The director's done a very good job of creating the right mood and
telling the story in such a way that the actors can do their work,
unimpeded by unrealistic run ups to their scenes. This movie made me
feel as if I've just visited Berlin much more effectively than any
other European based movie I can think of and that alone is worth the
price of admission.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie sounds intriguing since from the beginning and keeps its
sense of mystery and intrigue till the end: this is a good quality,
once reminding Hitchcock's thrillers, with the difference that in
"Unknown" the thrilling aspect cannot be separated from the frenzy
typical of action movies. The result is an entertaining, involving pic,
never losing its strong and quick rhythm and letting the viewer staying
attached to the screen till the end. Set in a depressing Berlin covered
by snow, always marked by the sad signs of a more or less distant past,
a good photography gets to capture the overall gloomy atmosphere of the
story and the mystery of a character whose vicissitudes seem as much
incomprehensible as much needing some resolution, and an effective
final twist as well. Liam Neeson plays skillfully, although not always
sufficiently expressive, he gets to convey the sense of void of someone
looking for some identity. A stand-out performance is offered by Bruno
Ganz and also Diane Kruger supports Neeson quite well. Certainly not a
masterpiece, but worth the ticket.
<|_=00=_|>
The researcher Dr. Martin Harris (Liam Neeson) and his wife Elizabeth
Harris (January Jones) arrive in the airport of Berlin to participate
in the Biotechnology Global Summit. When they take a cab to the Hotel
Adlen in the Central Berlin, the taxi driver forgets his briefcase in
the kart. While Liz is in the check-in, Martin discovers that his
briefcase is missing and he immediately takes a cab back to the
airport. During the route, there is an accident and the taxi fall off
the bridge into the river, but the driver Gina (Diane Kruger) rescues
Martin and saves him. 

Martin awakes in the hospital after four days in coma and his Dr. Farge
(Karl Markovics) advises him to stay in the hospital since he could be
deluded due to his trauma on the head. However, Martin forces the
doctor to discharge him and he goes to the hotel. Without any document,
Martin is hold by the security of the hotel; but he sees Liz in the
hall and the chief of security agrees to go with him to meet his wife.
However, she tells that she does not know him; further, she presents
her husband, Dr. Martin Harris, to them. Martin goes to the police and
tells that the other man is an impersonator. But Martin can not prove
who he is since he has no documents and it is Thanksgiving in North
America and he can not locate his old friend Dr. Rodney Cole (Frank
Langella). Without any credibility, Martin is forced to return to the
hospital; but when he is attacked by a stranger the kills his Nurse
Gretchen Erfurt (Eva Löbau), Martin realizes that he is involved in a
huge conspiracy and nobody believes on him.

"Unknown" is another great thriller with Liam Neeson with a surprising
plot point. The intriguing story seems to have flaws, but when the
mystery is solved, everything has an explanation. Everything works in
the thriller: performances, cinematography, music score and specially
the twist. 

The fifty-nine year-old Liam Neeson is impressively youthful and fits
perfectly to the role of a man that loses part of his recollections,
and the gorgeous Diane Kruger is excellent as usual. Despite their
difference of ages, they are are convincing as a couple. My vote is
eight.

Title (Brazil): "Desconhecido" ("Unknown")
<|_=00=_|>
Unknown is good, but not great. It's worth a go at the theatre, but if
you're expecting Taken, prepare for disappointment.

Liam Neeson is on top, giving a spotless performance. He is becoming
more iconic and, therefore, his characters are starting to look the
same. Not a bad thing if you're an actor (because you'll get more work
and more money), but it can get tiresome for the audience. Fortunately,
I'm not one of them. I enjoy Neeson in just about everything I see him
in. Good for me and good for him as I'm sure the majority of
movie-goers would agree.

Unknown is all three Bourne movies tied up in one. It's great for those
that don't have the patience for a long wrap-up. There is a lot of
detective work and very little action; however, when there is action,
it is good, including a hair-raising car chase. The ending is weak, but
hey, it's Hollywood. When was the last time you saw a great ending?
Unknown is worth 8-9 bucks. Just be glad there isn't a 3D version for
you to pay $15 for.
<|_=00=_|>
Good movie. The plot seemed similar to Arnold Schwarzenegger's 1990
science - fiction action movie, Total Recall. If you were to change
sci-fi action thriller to foreign intrigued mystery action thriller,
change locations, Mars to Berlin, change Ronny Cox to Frank Langella,
change free oxygen for all on Mars to lower cost corn development on
Earth and change revolutionary hero, Quato to revolutionary scientist,
Dr. Bessler. Total Recall was made nearly 20 years ago, many people may
never have seen it or forgot about it. Retelling a story in Hollywood
is nothing new in order to gain a contemporary audience. Maybe I'm
wrong about the similarities, yet on it's own, Unknown is a very good
action movie thriller and Liam Neeson has successfully step into action
adventure characters with vengeance.
<|_=00=_|>
Anyone who has watched Liam Neeson's movies have grown accustom to a
character that is always thrown into absurd situations but can still
somehow use wit, power and skills to get himself out. Unknown offers
the same formula but it still works. This movie caught my attention
from the get go. I enjoy how Liam is believable in these roles and you
forget that he's getting up there in age, if anything, he makes it seem
like this is what any man his age is capable of. He is awaken from a
coma to discover that his identity has been taken by someone else.
Worst yet, his wife doesn't seem to recognize him. With the help of the
woman that saved his life, in a country that is not his home, Liam
seeks about to prove himself. This movie is action packed and keeps you
on the edge while you try to figure out what is going on. And I feel
the ending does not disappoint. Enjoyable, entertaining, action packed
and thrilling!
<|_=00=_|>
An average story with some limited potential, but ruined by Liam
Neeson's wooden acting, and ruined even more by some ridiculous script
and plot elements. The lack of common sense displayed by any of the
characters is even worse than in Taken, if such a thing is possible. I
don't want to totally spoil the plot in case you still decide to watch
this film, but let me give you three examples:

1. Neeson's character fights a man who attacks him, and eventually the
man is overcome. Just before the assailant dies, Neeson bangs him
against the floor demanding to know who he is, and who sent him. The
man dies, saying nothing. Now, any normal person would go through the
dead man's pockets for ID or for any other clue as to his purpose or
identity. Equally, given his lack of cash at the time, you would expect
Neeson simply to grab the dead man's wallet. You would also expect him
to take the man's gun - after all his equally vicious partner is still
armed and at large. What does Neeson's character do? Grab a notebook
(essential to the plot, but he didn't know it at the time), then run
away. Unknown 1 - Common Sense 0

2. Neeson and his female companion escape in a borrowed Taxi - a
Mercedes saloon. The second armed assailant follows in a much larger
and faster Mercedes 4x4. Ignore the ridiculous sound effects as Neeson
repeatedly changes gear (note to sound effects: Mercedes saloon taxis
do not have gearchange mechanisms that sound like Nascar sequential
boxes). It is clear that the assailant's car is quicker and heavier,
yet Neeson continues to try to outdrag him and barge him off the road.
At no point does he do the obvious thing - let the man get slightly
ahead (so Neeson's car is in his blind spot), then brake hard and take
the assailant by surprise by turning left / right / U-turning, not even
when the assailant is on the opposite side of the road, or behind a set
of pillars where he couldn't react quickly even if he spotted the
braking manoeuvre. Unknown 2 - Common Sense 0

3. Neeson's character retrieves a briefcase that contains documents
vital to the plot, and to his identity. He has spent most of the film
looking for this information, yet having found it what does he do? Set
about proving his case? Call the investigator working for him to let
him know? Go to the Authorities? Put the passport safely in his inside
pocket, and lock the rest of the documents in his briefcase then put it
in a safe place? No. In spite of being chased, shot at, and set up by
various people, and in spite of still having no idea who the good guys
and bad guys might be, or how many of them there are, or how to
identify them, he sits at a table in a café, alternately waving his
passport around or gazing at it for a few minutes, with the briefcase
open and in full view on a chair beside him, inviting any passing bad
guy to take and destroy the passport and the rest of the documents and
other evidence. Unknown 3 - Common Sense 0

This is just the tip of the iceberg. The whole script is littered with
scenes where any sensible person would have done almost entirely the
opposite of what Neeson's character does. I'm not talking about
suspension of disbelief for the basic plot (which I'm broadly quite
happy with - after all, it's fiction for the purpose of entertainment),
but characters who just do stupid things. What's more annoying is that
the plot would have worked just as well if the characters had done
sensible things - the stupid actions weren't vital to any of the key
plot elements.

A waste of an afternoon. If it had been on TV I'd have turned it off
and done the washing up instead.
