
I like British made cinema or cinema with a strong British
contribution, so I take no pleasure in my poor review. This
chick-flick, ROM COM revolves around a group of characters, without any
real depth, who move sluggishly through a predictable and boring plot,
this time taking place several years after the 2nd instalment. The
message here is that a woman is ultimately unhappy unless married, with
a baby (to make her life complete), and so Bridget's quest continues. 

Renee Zellweger returns with her fake British middle class accent, this
time she's celebrating her 43rd birthday, and this time in search of
(you'll never guess)  love, but also this time with the dilemma of
pregnancy to one of two possible fathers.

Bridget's character narrates the 'important' points (as normal), and
just to highlight where to laugh.

Colin Firth wheels out the same boring very 'proper' English character.
The standard awkward atmosphere exists whenever Bridget is less than 20
feet from Darcy (YAWN!) 

Patrick Dempsey is the (new) American character, who is a guru with a
formula for love. Oh - and he's handsome, but to make him even more
handsome he's a billionaire to boot. (REALLY?!)

There's lots of cliché scenes and jokes, some recycled from previous
films, the film is very predictable, and I found boring. The secondary
characters seem very 'tired' now, makes you wonder why they made such
nonsense  money?

BEST BITS - Bridget didn't expect either man to take any responsibility
for the baby, and she makes that clear. The soundtrack is good, and Ed
Shearan is a good sport. The endearing message  'True love will always
find a way'.

WORST BITS - One memorable scene sees Bridget talking to a friend on
her mobile while dropping the 'F' bomb several times, there are
children in the background listening intently, the next scene shows
Bridget arriving late at a christening, one of the same children shouts
'where the 'F' have you been?' not clever, not funny  SHOCKING!. Very
dated jokes.

SUMMARY- The first film wasn't great but at least it was fresh and
charming.

I sincerely hope there isn't a 4th instalment  'Bridget Jones has yet
Another Baby COZ I need the Money!'
<|_=00=_|>
---- Warning: This review includes spoilers -----

In giving feedback, one shall always start with a positive, and so I
will. As commented by a few people before me: strong cast! This series
of movies always had a good selection of actors, and the addition of
Emma Thompson brings her special delicious style of humor, which I
enjoyed. And so endeth the account of positive aspect(s).

Browsed the headlines of other reviews to see whether I am the only one
who finds fault with this production, and I am not.

Found comments like "Bridget Jones is fading". I agree, there is a
continuous decline in quality from the 1st to the 3rd installment. The
story lines got more and more silly, making one want to ask "did she
lose contact with reality, or had she none to begin with?" And
replacing Hugh Grant with Patrick Depsey?! Seriously?! 

There were comments on the level of banality of the story like "Middle
Class Lady has Middle Class Baby (who cares?!)" and indeed, who cares?!
And it does not get rendered exciting by her not knowing who is the
father, the potentials being her married ex and a complete stranger
from a drunken chance encounter...

What REALLY lifted my eyebrow was the 43(!) year old pregnant woman who
completely ignores the need for prenatal diagnostics (amniocenthesis)
and NO ONE, including the gynecologist seems to be alarmed by this. Nor
does she have any concern since she seems to lack any information about
the possible outcomes (where we are again at the "does she have any
contact with reality" context). So, what is the message here? Is it "ah
well, even with a highly geriatric pregnancy, we need no prenatal
testing, since - voila - all will be well, there will be the absolute
perfect, most beautiful baby in the end anyway"????. Wellcome to
Fairyland! Masks me wonder about plenty of things including identity of
financiers...
<|_=00=_|>
"Bridget Jones' Baby" is a surprisingly funny, smart, adorable romantic
comedy. Yes, really. 

When I heard that there was going to be another Bridget Jones movie I
thought, wow, that is going to be the worst film of the year. The
previous two Bridget Jones movies combined comedic and romantic
highpoints and low points. 

In the first film, "Bridget Jones' Diary," there is the legendary "I
like you just as you are" staircase scene, where the impeccable and
quite possibly inhumanly perfect Colin Firth (as Mark Darcy) walks down
a staircase that showcases his luscious long legs and tells plump,
goofy, perpetually self-sabotaging Bridget Jones (Renee Zellweger) that
he likes her just as she is. 

If you've never seen the film, you can watch that scene  over and over
 on youtube, where fans have posted multiple copies of it, and watched
and re-watched it hundreds of thousands of times. How to find it? Just
start typing "I like you just as" and Google will finish the sentence
for you. There's also a scene where Mark Darcy cooks dinner with
Bridget Jones. If I die watching that scene, I will die happy. 

The Bridget Jones movies also include hysterically funny fistfights
between Colin Firth and Hugh Grant as the two men vying for Bridget's
affections. 

But for all their perfect moments, the Bridget Jones movies also
included cringe-worthy, masochist, misogynist scenes where Bridget is
made out to be the butt of highly humiliating jokes. 

And "Bridget Jones Diary" was released *fifteen years ago.* Renee
Zellweger was already in her thirties. Part of the point of the film
was that she was a spinster who had not found a man and was desperate
to do so. Fifteen years later, Renee Zellweger is 47, subject of a
tsunami of articles and internet posts arguing that she has committed
the unforgivable sin, in a woman, of aging. She is too damn old,
fanboys and girls stamp and shout. She should be retired to a remote,
cloistered nunnery; if she must venture out, it is only with a bag
firmly affixed over her old-lady face. 

Zellweger had plastic surgery and it ruined her, some allege. Others
are enraged that she didn't have enough plastic surgery. Everyone is
ready with pitchforks and torches to burn the lady for surviving past
age 25. 

And, finally, a romantic comedy about a woman in her forties who gets
pregnant and does not know who the father is? Yuck. 

In spite of all my misgivings, I went to the theater anyway, and
"Bridget Jones' Baby" rapidly eliminated all my resistance. I laughed
out loud throughout this movie, and I can't remember the last time I
laughed so much during a first run Hollywood comedy. In "Bridget Jones'
Baby," the emphasis is much more on comedy than it is on romance.
Everything is played for laughs. The jokes are broad, low-brow, and
slapstick. Don't expect sophisticated wit. Think nekkid bums and b00bs. 

Bridget Jones is a TV producer. She is single. She and Mark made a go
of it, but separated. He is now married to someone else. Bridget has a
couple of one-night stands and relies on outdated, ecologically
friendly prophylactics. Emma Thompson is her gynecologist. Go see this
movie for Thompson's performance alone. If you don't laugh at her, I
don't want to know you. 

Patrick Dempsey is the other potential father. During every scene he's
in, all I could think was, did his mother dip him in a magical river
shortly after he was born? Dempsey is so obscenely handsome. He also
comes across as being such a nice guy. He's just pure pleasure. His
fireplace-warm and crackly good humor keeps the potentially awkward
plot bouncing along, never getting too serious or painful. 

I really think it's a human rights abuse that not every woman is issued
her very own Colin Firth. He is arguably the perfect man. He may be the
last living actor who can convincingly play a gentleman. Again, the
film is played for laughs, but there is one scene that is
heartbreakingly real. Firth is informed that Bridget is pregnant. He is
so overwhelmed with emotion that he must leave the room. It's a small
moment, but a poignant one, amidst the rest of the bedroom farce. 

Renee Zellweger has aged, as have we all. But she's great. She inhabits
Bridget, and steals our hearts. 

The rest of the cast includes Bridget's funny, wacky mom, who is
involved in an election meant to mirror current politics. Those brief
scenes are as funny as the rest of the movie. Bridget's gang of friends
are onhand, and seeing them feels as good as a reunion with your own
old gang with whom you raised heck when you were young. As for the Hugh
Grant character  go see the film. I don't want to spoil it for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Why did I watch this? I can't say I was ever a fan, I never read the
books, but I have seen the original film many times. I re-watched it
not long ago, and had to admit it had worn out for me, but that's
probably my own fault. It's not meant to be seen every holiday season.
Still, it has very good timing and it's bittersweet. Bridget Jones'
Baby doesn't and isn't. It's dragging and it would make absolutely no
sense to anyone not familiar with the first ones. The millennial
characters are unfunny and implausible, the writing there is both
patronizing and eager to please, like me following my friend's teenage
son on Instagram and commenting YOLO. Pussy Riot and cats that look
like Hitler... and the next minute jokes about human rights
violations... So, I actually watched for the experience of a 40+
pregnant woman, of any glimpses of successfully acted emotions. And for
Colin Firth, and possibly Emma Thompson, although I think I'd now like
to forget she has screenplay credit in this. But still, what happened?
Was everyone an amateur? It was like the characters from earlier films
were all doing cameos. Renee Zellweger was playing herself playing her
character 12 years later. No, she was standing in for herself in that
role. Her voice was often barely audible, like she was really, really
tired.
<|_=00=_|>
The first Bridget Jones was a cultural event, one of the movies that
defined the times it was released in. The second one was uneven, but
had its moments. With this installment, I just didn't care about
anything that happened. They lost my interest from the opening moments
by having Bridget in the exact same situation we see her in the
beginning of the first movie. I would have liked this story to cover
some new ground, because I do like the character. Unfortunately, it's
just another 90 minutes of keeping Mark Darcy just out of reach until
they predictably end up together for the THIRD time.
<|_=00=_|>
Like many I was very happy but skeptical when I heard the news of a
third entry in the Bridget Jones series. It had been 12 years since the
last film, The Edge of Reason, which deviated severely from its source
material in the worst way possible and Helen Fielding had put out an
awful third book Bridget Jones: Mad About the Boy, which seemed to
destroy everything I loved about the series. 

First off: Bridget Jones's Baby is NOT an adaptation of Mad About the
Boy, but its own zany creation. Second of all it's actually
surprisingly good. Despite a 12 year gap Renee Zellweger slips into her
Bridget persona flawlessly. She's able to anchor the film so that it
still feels like a Bridget Jones film while introducing new characters
like Jack Quant, a man Bridget instantly has a spark with at a music
festival, and Sarah Solemani as Bridget's colleague and single friend,
Miranda. Sharon Maguire (who directed the first Bridget film and was
the inspiration for Shazzer), returns and seems able to get the best
out of her cast. 

The film sees Bridget, now turning 43, as a successful news producer
who is still single and childless. Deciding to embrace her state as a
single spinster she goes to a music festival where she meets a handsome
man about her age, and sleeps with him. A little while later, when at
her godchild's christening, she runs into Mark Darcy, new divorced from
the wife he married after they split up, and as sparks fly, she sleeps
with him too, only to remember in the morning all the reasons they
split up as he never had time with her and was always focused on work.
Soon after she discovers she's pregnant with the titular baby.

A huge part of the success of the film is down to the script which
holds contributions from notorious wit Emma Thompson. It's really quite
funny, but also has a lot of character bits so we believe in these
characters and their decisions. The explanation for why Bridget and
Darcy aren't together feels organic and real. Similarly the movie does
a great job of showing who these characters would be 12 years on.
Bridget has grown and figures out things in life while still keeping
sense of humour and being a clumsy mess in certain situations. Rather
than appearing haughty, Mark comes across as painfully shy, a careful
man who now has many regrets from all the chances he didn't take. 

It's a wonderful, sweet movie, and a wonderful end to the Bridget Jones
series.
<|_=00=_|>
Contains major spoilers. Don't read if you haven't yet seen the movie.

Well... I can't say it was a bad movie, but I still felt a bit
disappointed. First of all, Bridget no longer looks like Bridget. What
happened to "I will always be a little bit fat"? Being chubby was the
character's trademark. Now that she's skinny, she's a lot less likable
(in my opinion at least). And what's with her face? Botox overload? 

A lot of the time I noticed that bits from other movies were used,
particularly "Sex and the City". And, as another reviewer here
mentioned, - the excessive product placement is kind of annoying at
times.

And, of course, I don't understand the need for constant use of the
F-word. It is said in every other sentence throughout the movie. They
even have a child say it. Uncalled for.

In order to take the Jack story seriously, one will have to suspend
disbelief entirely. Do you really think that a millionaire celebrity
will have unprotected sex with a random not-particularly-attractive
40-something broad? And then chase her around begging to be her child's
father (when he's not even sure it's his)? And to top it off, he sticks
around after she marries Darcy and becomes best mates with him. Would
something like this happen in real life? I think not.

Plus, what was the point in all of this? We all knew right from the
start that she was going to end up with Mark Darcy whatever the case
might have been with the baby.

Another thing that bothered me, was when Bridget asked her father if he
thought she belonged on Jerry Springer. It's an American show that
isn't broadcast on British television. The Brits have the Jeremy Kyle
show, so I'm not sure where the Jerry Springer reference came from.

Also, it's just not the same without Hugh Grant. With two male
protagonists, it gets kind of boring.

The lame ending was probably the most offensive thing about this movie.
How banal. So, after all, Bridget concludes that the only way for a
woman to find fulfilment in life, is to get hitched and punch out a
rugrat. Yawn.

The good thing is that we get to see a lot of familiar faces, and some
of the jokes are actually chuckle-worthy.

So, like I said, it's not a bad movie, but I expected... something
different. There's nothing really wrong with it - the cast is good and
so is the acting, the script is engaging, the dialogue is fine (except
for the constant cursing, of course). I guess it just doesn't have the
same "spunk" anymore. It just feels "tired" and... "over".

Makes you wonder if they will make another movie after this. If so,
what's it going to be? "Bridget Jones the desperate housewife" or
"Bridget Jones's adventures in the retirement home"?
<|_=00=_|>
I may have over exaggerated haha, but seriously though when I saw the
credits I was relieved it was over! I liked how the cast from the
original films were still there like her parents, her friends, Mark and
the reference to Daniel. But I just feel with the absence of Hugh
Grant, it just didn't work. Her new friend at the news station, already
forgot her name, annoyed me during the music festival scenes because it
was just over-acting. When Ed Sheeran was on screen I just found both
her's and Bridget's reactions unbelievable. I also wasn't a big fan of
the soundtrack, it was too clubby, modern. I mean, I myself am a
teenager but I'm used to Bridget Jones with the big power ballads not
clubby music that just doesn't express any emotion or even suit the
scene. 

In addition, i did find it hard to warm to Bridget for the first 30
minutes. It's just Renee looks so different with all her plastic
surgery, still beautiful but she just didn't resemble the Bridget we've
come to love. So it was difficult to view her as the character we know
for a while.

However, apart from all of this I think it was an uplifting film! I
didn't feel like it was depressing or anything, and there were funny
moments! It was a feel-good one and although the situation with the
pregnancy was a bit odd and in some cases, relatable to some people,
they still made it lighthearted which was lovely to see! And it was
great to see how happy Bridget was when, although struggling with
relationships over the films, she was finally in a position where she
wouldn't be alone and that she will have a child to love for the rest
of her life.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, this is not supposed to be a heavy, meaningful, deep
film. People are judging it on what it is not supposed to be. It is
light, funny, romantic and the name Darcy hints on what it is more
about. It is about love and finally getting with the person you are
meant to be with. It is a modern day Jane Austin story of love and
tanglements. The actors are lovely and their characters are credible
and sweet. My usual genre is crime so for me to enjoy something as
light as this it has to be good. If you like these actors and feel like
something romantic and light then you will enjoy this film. If you want
to judge it by a criteria that it is not pretending to be then you will
be disappointed. It entertains as a romance and comedy. Nothing heavy
or earth shattering but it is a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The first was good, thoroughly enjoyable, even with her dreadful
English accent! the second was OK, her dreadful English accent never
improved and this the third film? This the third film is really bad on
a par with how awful her English accent is! I will say this for it
though, for all of the foreigners (mainly Americans) that have
attempted an English accent it is better than a lot of others. Better
than a lot of others does not mean good and it is not good! the film is
about as boring and unfunny as it can possibly get. It is so bad that I
am typing this while it is playing on my TV! The whole
as-thin-as-it-can-be who's-the-father storyline is preposterous and
guess who she ends up marrying?! oh, and you never do find out who the
baby's father is but then as she ends up marrying the obvious I guess
you are supposed to think he is the father but you never know!
