
I haven't read any of the books so I watched this film on its own
merits and I'm generally supportive of Aussie films, but this film was
terrible.

Let's start with the characters. Stereotypes galore from the prissy,
ditsy uptown blonde through to the Chinese boy who's family owns a
Chinese restaurant and he demonstrates Kung Fu skills. The actors seem
very camera-aware, talking at the camera instead of each other and it
doesn't help that the story is full of woeful clichés and unrealistic
dialog. There was no development of the characters, i felt no
attachment to any of them and towards the end i was wishing the "enemy"
would kill at least half of them. The worst part for me is that the
story suggests that they are mostly 17 years old, but only 1 character
(the priests daughter *groan*) actually looks right for the part. I
would have turned it off halfway if it wasn't for the stoner character.
At this point I started watching it like it was a spoof movie.

The story unfortunately is full of holes and unrealistic events that
make it so hard to watch. The enemy was made out to be so stupid and
wildly inaccurate with their weapons. Please use a military adviser
next time you want to make a film containing armed forces. Are we
really supposed to believe that they wouldn't have engineers that could
rebuild a bridge? On top of all the technical and military logic errors
in the story, it almost seems to completely ignore the fact that
Australia has a defense force.

Afraid of political correctness, the Asian coalition army invading has
no name and it is painfully skirted around making the movie more
unrealistic. Trying to keep gender equality alive with woman enemy
soldiers (did we forget it was an Asian army?) another painful reminder
of the poorly written script. The lead female gaining inspiration for a
wall mural depicting aborigines and English redcoat troops was a vomit
moment. You guys realise that the English settled here right,
effectively conquering?? Just needed a scene with a woman vet holding
an injured joey to finish it off.

The only good thing about this film is the view of the national park.

There is more, but I'm over it. Do yourself a favour and save your
money.
<|_=00=_|>
Someone is obviously paying people to give positive reviews, I had
heard that this was a film I should see... Wrong! 

Clumsy, predictable, laughable. They should have had a grown-up check
the script before starting production. 

Dump trucks are not bullet proof! Soldiers don't run away when a
teenager blows up a lawnmower. Soldiers don't go for dinner when
someone steals their tanker. Soldiers don't sneak up on enemy
'commandoes' with their gun-lights on.

It kept looking like it could improve and some parts looked very
stylish, but then ffffttt! Deflation.

Paper-thin character development, dry lines, ridiculous action
sequences and the final scene... OMG lol wtf...I was embarrassed to
have told my wife she should watch this with me, she doesn't mind
suspending disbelief when watching something like this but she laughed
out loud at the final 5 seconds and I cringed!

Sorry to the writer and director, good on you for having the guts to
make a movie, no doubt better than I could do, but sheesh, maybe share
the workload next time.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie not knowing anything about it, I didn't even
know it was Australian. I had my head in my hands for half the time it
was so cringe until it was so bad I had to laugh out loud. The acting
is over the top and ridiculous and the storyline unbelievable to the
point of asking oneself if this is actually a joke. As I hadn't read
the books at least I didn't have a childhood fantasy crushed like some
people I know. I passed the time by wondering what the best way to
invade Australia would be to hunt down the people responsible for the
complete waste of time and money. The worst movie I have EVER seen in a
cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
I've just finished watching the world premiere of "Tomorrow When the
War Began" in Sydney with my son. We've both read the complete
"Tomorrow" book series, which we loved - so we went expecting the movie
to not live up to the book because movies generally don't, do they?
Well, we were really pleasantly surprised as this movie is a wonderful
adaption.

A great cast of "unknowns" become the characters we know and love. They
did a fabulous job of capturing the essence of the book with the right
balance of action, character development and teenage romance. It really
is a fantastic effort and I would be very surprised if this film
doesn't smash it at the box office.

We both wanted to sit there and watch it all over again!
<|_=00=_|>
This film, Tomorrow When the War Began, is the first in an intended
series of three films, to be followed by a television series, depending
on box office receipts. 

It was a substantial investment for an Australian feature film, at $20
million, and its production values are generally excellent. DOP Ben
Nott has done a superb job of capturing some of the beauty of
Australia's bush and mountains, alternating with that serenity, the
fast paced action sequences, with gun fights, car chases, explosions
and general mayhem.

Although there are a number of small technical criticisms I noted, this
film still rises way above the average fair, and its 143 minutes
duration literally flies past, leaving you a little disappointed for
want of more.

I have not read the seven book novel series, written by John Marsden,
which the film is based on, so I was seeing the film and judging it on
its merits, and I know the youth, in particular, who are familiar with
the books, will love the film, as will many older folk who do not know
Marsden's work.

The actors generally put in strong performances; however, there are a
few awful character clichés which more than jar, which does disrupt
one's involvement momentarily. I have written a more in depth analysis,
which does not contain plot or ending spoilers, but does partly
describe some scenes for critical purposes, on my film review site. On
other criticisms, some logic and laws of physics have been bent, for
dramatic purposes which, in my opinion, detract from the effect. 

Realism, if respected on every level, always impresses more. The
Hollywood multi-angle multi shot of the same effect is cartoonish and
helps to degrade a drama, rather than enhance it. This film does commit
some sins, but it is head and shoulders above the usual Hollywood fair,
in the action genre.

In closing, I recommend you see this film, for it reveals a,
potentially, extremely contentious issue, regarding the invaders, which
may have historical socio-political repercussions, more than any other
Australian film before it, particularly throughout Asia.

This film will be remembered by many for a number of reasons. 

It is definitely worth the price of the ticket!
<|_=00=_|>
I felt it was necessary to sign up for an IMDb account to offset the
skewed reviews this film is getting... it's current 6.9 rating is
baffling to say the least.

I started watching this film with an open mind. The premise wasn't
original (see Red Dawn) but I like Australian films and since it got
such high reviews here, it would be worth a watch. I was sadly
mistaken.

It's starts off well, establishing the main characters, but quickly
falls off the rails once the kids return from their camping trip. I
know I'm not the target audience for this type of film, but once you
get past the teens and their budding crushes/relationships, this film
makes little sense. I won't get into too much detail, but even a
non-military person like myself knows that the way the "invaders" take
over and police the town is completely implausible and impractical. And
don't get me started on using gasoline as a high explosive, which is
used as a plot device not once, but twice.

When the main characters start musing on the current situation and how
their lives were before the "war" (an hour or two after returning to
town no less), it comes across as wooden and silly. Maybe if I was a 14
year old girl I'd be more forgiving, but I'm not.

To top it all off, the movies doesn't have an ending. There's no
satisfying conclusion to the story and it's blatantly clear they want
to start a franchise with many sequels, which hopefully will never be
made.

An awful, awful film Red Dawn did it much better.
<|_=00=_|>
In the Australian country town of Wirrawee Ellie (Caitlin Stasey) is
preparing to organise a camping trip with six of her school friends.
They include Corrie (Rachel Hurd-Wood) and her boyfriend Kevin (Lincoln
Lewis), Fiona; a beautiful girl who has never been camping before,
Homer (Deniz Akdeniz); a Greek boy who is regularly in trouble with the
police, Robyn (Ashleigh Cummings); who comes from a strict religious
family and Lee (Chris Pang); who normally works in his parents
restaurant but is invited because Ellie likes him. These varied
personalities have different reactions to the bushland but they
eventually agree that they should regularly return to this part of the
outback labelled as "Hell". When they arrive back home though they are
dismayed to find that the phone lines are dead and that Ellie's dog has
been killed. They are unable to find any other working signals on their
phones or in the other houses. Everyone in the town, including their
parents, seems to have vanished. They soon realise that an Asian
military force has invaded Australia and is holding people captive. The
kids decide to fight for their freedom and work to sabotage their
invaders. 

One of the most significant moments in Stuart Beattie's career as a
screenwriter was to pen the screenplay for Michael Mann's dazzling
thriller Collateral (2004). The Australian's script reminded Hollywood
of many of the essentials that had been lost in mainstream genre
cinema: the necessity for deep characterisation, regularly driven by
smart, witty conversations that were enjoyable to listen to. Beattie
has been involved in various blockbusters since then. He worked on the
stories for all three of the Pirates of the Caribbean films. He also
penned the script to the film Australia and has been involved with the
much anticipated Halo film project. With a desire to be at the helm of
his own writing though, Beattie has opted to make his directional debut
by adapting the first novel in John Marsden's immensely popular young
adult series "Tomorrow, When the War Began" (1993). The film's timing
could not be better. It is set in the present and hints at Australia's
sometimes dangerous nationalist attitudes to other countries. Kevin
says at one point: "you're either in or you're out", echoing an
infamous catchphrase by George W. Bush. The film also reveals its
invaders to be an Asian military force, something that is never
unveiled in the novels. Frustratingly for Beattie and fans of the novel
though, this adaptation seems to have been pulled in two different
directions for two separate mediums. Potentially interesting material
and moral ambiguities are either simplified or minimised to single
lines of dialogue. 

Marsden's stranglehold over the screenplay cannot be understated. He
reportedly rejected numerous scripts and film offers prior to Beattie
but was pleased with this treatment when he read through it. It makes
few changes to the essentials of the novel. The personalities of the
characters are just like the novel, constructed rather than subtle.
Marsden seems to have forgotten that time has moved on and those that
cherished the novel in the 90s have grown up and presumably become more
sophisticated. There's a lack of nerve here to let the audience think
for themselves and allow them to delve into more complex issues. When
Ellie kills her first soldier she looks over the body and her
voice-over tells us how scared the soldier looked and how she must have
been just like her. It's not enough for the camera shot and the
perspective to exist by itself, replacing the language of Marsden's
novel. It's a reoccurring issue with a lot of the dialogue in the film.
The characters exist for Beattie to voice moral questions, just in case
the audience didn't get them. Robyn has an argument with the group
about not wanting to kill the soldiers because of her religious values.
What happens to her is predictable and exists on a surface level, with
little reflection. You'd almost wish William Munny would show up and
say: "It's a hell of a thing, killing a man". He doesn't and the film's
constraints towards it themes and the potential of its subtext are
obvious.

Some critics have spoken about the problematic decision to employ a
novice director to work with such inexperienced actors. It's a
legitimate concern as most of the performers, bar Stasey, lack presence
on screen. They have mostly worked just on television and they're only
given a small corridor to work in because of the specific outline of
what their characters are supposed to be and sound like. There's a lot
of clunky, wooden dialogue that really only serves as a mouthpiece for
the familiar questions relating to warfare. Thankfully, the technical
aspects of the film are much more impressive. For a debut director,
Beattie handles the action very well, with some genuinely exciting set
pieces. There's a very well staged escape from a showground and a slick
chase against a group of armoured buggies. Each these action scenes
look and sound terrific. They're very exciting and intense. 

Tomorrow, When the War Began might satisfy young viewers with its slick
action sequences and its stereotypical character traits. Yet those who
grew up with the novels will be disappointed that the material here has
not expanded or been updated thoroughly enough. This is a straight
adaptation that cannot break from the shackles of the original author.
Beattie has not been allowed to delve deep enough into new ideas about
warfare or the psychology of the cartoon-like characters here. The
probability of a sequel is high but it would seem that the children of
the revolution have arrived too little too late.
<|_=00=_|>
OK so this was one of those films that I tripped over. It was amongst a
list of supposedly "worthy" sci-fi action films in the SMH one day
about three months ago. Now I pay to go see films in the cinema that I
know I want to see. But films that I couldn't be bothered seeing or
paying for but still have a curiosity over - I download using bit
torrent. And so it was that this film (along with some of the others)
came my way.

Now I wish I had paid for it. Because it certainly is worth a proper
screening! This film was a welcome breath of fresh air film making in
the tradition of Aussie films where character development and story
telling mean more than explosions. That's not to say that the
explosions weren't good - they were - but this film brings back a rare
thing nowadays in feature films - emotion.

Give this film a go. It's under rated, very delightful to watch and
quintessentially Australian. Watching it, you begin to truly believe
that "hey that could be my town, my son, my house". It challenges and
yet entertains. And most of all, it's simple to watch. You don't need
an arts degree to enjoy it - it flows over you.

Be patient with the beginning (like many Aussie films and old cars, it
takes a while to get warmed up). In the end, I couldn't fault this
film. It's one of the rare recent releases that I know will be watched
again and again.

Zordmaker
<|_=00=_|>
Fans of the Tomorrow book series rejoiced at the news of a cinematic
adaptation of John Mardson's iconic Australian teen epic, Tomorrow When
the War Began. As an enthusiast of the first 3 books (in a series of
7), I was ecstatic that it would get big screen treatment and not some
shitty b-grade telly movie as I had feared. I'm pleased to announce
that I walked out of this energised, with a racing pulse and a smile on
the face. 

For those unfamiliar with the material, the concept of is pretty much
identical to Red Dawn  a group of teens from a country town go camping
for a weekend to find out their country has been invaded, and their
family have been held captive. They hide out and guerrilla warfare
ensues. 

Thematically, the film captures the clichéd 'working together' virtues
of friendship corn from the novel. It is definitely in the writing that
the film falls downwell, more of a stumble than a fall. I found this
particularly unusual given the writer/director is Stuart Beattie  a
screenwriter with an exceptional resume. He handles action far better
than he handles characters in his directorial debut. Despite the ham
and cheese in the writing, the broader screenplay is emotionally
satisfying.

Whilst the acting is not of the highest calibre, I would say it was on
par with other large franchise films with a young, teen cast
(specifically Harry Potter and Twi). The actor who plays Lee is the
weakest link here. Although he has the visual presence for the role,
his delivery is consistently wooden. Caitlyn Stacey was a standout for
me. She displays genuine emotion, genuine intensity and fear. I would
have preferred if she spoke like less of a 'toff', and ripped into that
bogan Aussie accent, but she brings a solid and believable strength. 

As well as capturing the essence of the novel, the action sequences
have been stunningly realised. The visuals have a polished look and
feel, on par with films with a much higher budget (this had only $20AUD
million) thus I believe it would stand up well in an international
market. By any standards, the action is exhilarating and has been
directed with clarity. Although I wouldn't have minded a bit more grit
to the imagery, the cinematography is exceptional and captures the
Australian landscapes beautifully. The soundtrack and score was nicely
chosen, and the balance of humour and darker tones was effective. 

Whilst not being the major box office success some would have liked,
The Dead of the Night has been green lit, so thankfully there is more
to come in this promising franchise. Despite some awkwardness, there is
an energy in the characters and action that permeates Tomorrow When the
War Began, making it an entirely gripping experience. For me, this was
resonant action that sweeps you up and takes you on an exhilarating and
emotionally fulfilling ride.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to attend the world premiere of "Tomorrow When the
War Began" yesterday evening and I have to say I was blown away. There
were a few flaws, but overall it was an absolutely brilliant
experience.

The film tells the story of seven teenagers who go away on a camping
trip and return to discover that a foreign army has invaded their home
and imprisoned their families, and how they cope with this  and also
how they fight back to save everything they care about.

Soon after the film begins, we are drawn into the world of Wirrawee
(actually Raymond Terrace in country NSW), the small country town where
these teenagers have lived their whole lives in. Ellie (Caitlin
Stasey), our heroine, is called out to her best friend Corrie's (Rachel
Hurd-Wood) house for exciting news, and from there the two girls plan
to invite friends on a trip into the wild unknown. As the story unfolds
from here, we are given clear insights into the characters' lives and
personalities, and the sense of atmosphere that we get is incredible 
the relationships between all these characters are believable and
already the production design is highly impressive.

This film, to me, is split into two halves. The first half is
light-hearted and hugely funny as we get to know all the characters,
and at this point, I should name them  Corrie's boyfriend, Kevin
(Lincoln Lewis), Homer (Deniz Akdeniz), the wild man of the group,
Fiona (Phoebe Tonkin), better known as Fi, the princess, Lee (Chris
Pang), the quiet, introverted one, Robyn (Ashleigh Cummings), who has
strong religious convictions, and later we meet Chris (Andy Ryan), who
is perpetually stoned and is either, in his portrayer's words "highly
intelligent ", or "highly stupid", depending on who you ask. Romances
are blooming all over the place and there is just a general sense of
fun.

The second half, when the gang returns home and sees what has happened
is much more serious, although we still do get a few laughs here and
there. It is filled with action  wild, tension-filled chases in trucks
and enormous, breathtaking explosions. However, despite the
blockbuster-style action sequences, this is definitely not your typical
Hollywood movie where things get blown up and nobody cares. These
characters are real people  they fight with each other, they have to
make incredibly hard life-and-death decisions that are in direct
opposition to the values they have carried their whole lives, and,
perhaps most believable of all, they question the ethics of what they
have to do to survive. As Ellie asks the group at one point, "How many
people do I have to kill to keep myself alive?" Not your bog-standard
Hollywood blockbuster, huh? The film also has something to say on the
age-old topic of book-to-film adaptations, and it was agreed by the
characters who discuss this that "the books are better", which the
audience found greatly amusing. I must say a word on the casting
because it was absolutely top-notch in every case. However, I have to
give special props to Caitlin Stasey and Deniz Akdeniz for their
extraordinary portrayals in this film. Caitlin is almost exactly as the
book describes Ellie  a seemingly ordinary girl who goes on to do
incredibly brave things and yet still doubts that what she is doing is
right. It was an amazing performance, full of gusto and real emotion.
Good on you, Caitlin! Deniz Akdeniz is also incredible as Homer. Homer
starts off as a troublemaker and "class clown" type, never taking
anything too seriously and a lover of pulling pranks on his friends.
However, when the group become fugitives, Homer begins to show his
serious side, demonstrating qualities of strong leadership and
organisation. Deniz was able to portray both sides of Homer wonderfully
and if he doesn't become a star after this movie is officially released
then I will be very surprised. He also seemed to be the audience
favourite too! The production values, photography and visual effects
are also outstanding, and a huge congratulations go to the crew for
pulling it off so beautifully.

Overall, this is an incredibly powerful and thought-provoking film and
I strongly encourage everyone who reads this review to see it if it
comes out in your area.
