
Seeing as there are only 14 reviews at the time of writing this, I
decided to add my say.

Most importantly this movie needs to be viewed as it is intended. It is
a parody of what I'll dub as the 80's action sub-genre. Parodies have
to be measured on a separate scale. In my opinion they're generally
silly movies with goofy characters, ridiculous plots, and a few
cringe-worthy moments. They are this way because of their nature; they
exist to poke fun at prior works or themes. The good parodies are
really enjoyable, and I classify MacGruber as a good parody.

I saw this at my local theater last night and while there weren't many
other viewers, there was an almost steady stream of laughs throughout
the movie. MacGruber picks up fast and lays out the comedy. There
weren't any lapses where I was checking my watch.

However, to enjoy this movie you must be able to stomach some raunch.
More than once I instinctively put my hand over my eyes shaking my head
in somewhat disbelief that they "went there." However, at each of these
times, I was still laughing, as was much of the audience. This movie
pushes the limits, but if you can handle it, you'll come out with a
smile on your face and chuckle as you think back on the ridiculousness
of it all.
<|_=00=_|>
A full-length film version of a recurring Saturday Night Live sketch
may seem anachronistic these days; after all, it seemed the SNL movie
finally died out way back in 1999/2000 with the one-two TKO of
SUPERSTAR and THE LADIES MAN. The problems were obvious: even a
talented cast and crew can rarely stretch out a three or four minute
skit that hinged on the personality of the performer as he or she ran
through the same joke again and again. I can think of only two times it
did - THE BLUES BROTHERS and WAYNE'S WORLD. These films worked because
their subject matter allowed for a larger story to unfold. 

Lorne Michael's subsequent production efforts have taken the smarter
tack. They build new stories around established talents, with the
result that we go into the film with familiarity, to be sure, but also
a sense of fun and surprise at what our favorite comedians might cook
up. Tina Fey has really taken the ball and run with it in her
backstage-at- SNL-show "30 Rock", realizing that after a while, all
comedy sketches seem the same and the audience wants a different
perspective. Meanwhile MACGRUBER co-writer and director Jorma Taccone,
Andy Samberg and Akiva Goldsman (together The Lonely Island), have
become the most popular act on SNL by largely ignoring its conventions
and doing what they want. Samberg's on-air sketches are mostly
forgettable, but he shines in LI's genre-skewing short videos.

Taccone and company know how to tap cultural cliché like no one else
working today. They represent a new type of humor at work in American
comedy - one that lovingly wallows in cultural familiarity and the
ironic potential therein. In an age of YouTube and instant
dissemination of, well, everything, they know that the best way to
reach the widest audience at a level that truly connects is through
their pop umbilical cords.

Will Forte's "MacGruber" sketches follow an identical formula:
MacGruber, a hyper skilled MacGyver parody (we learn in the opening of
the film that he has something like 16 Purple Hearts and four Medals of
Honor, and has somehow served multiple tours of duty as a member of
every branch of the armed forces) is trapped in a control room of some
bad guy's lair with his assistant, Vicki St. Elmo (Kristen Wiig) and a
third person played by that week's guest star. Plus a bomb with a 20
second timer. MacGruber sets to work using household items to defuse
the bomb, but invariably becomes distracted, largely due to his own
hubris and general cluelessness, and the bomb explodes. Forte and
Taccone wisely dispense with this template until very late in the game,
instead constructing a plot in which MacGruber is free to run wild.
Thus: rich evil guy Dieter Von Cunth (Kilmer, having a ball) steals a
nuclear missile which he intends to use on Washington, D.C. His motives
are unimportant. What is important is that there's only one guy who can
stop him: MacGruber. In an opening scene recalling RAMBO III
(tellingly, the stupidest one), MacGruber's former commanding officer
(Powers Boothe) tracks down the titular hero at a monastery in Ecuador,
where he's spent the last ten years in seclusion following the death of
his bride at the altar. She was blown up by Cunth. It was messy. It
takes some convincing, and a team-assembling montage gone horribly,
horribly wrong, but pretty soon MacGruber's back in action and taking
the fight to the enemy. 

Support is provided by Kristen Wiig as Vicki St. Elmo, a woman as
strangely trapped in 1989-era style as MacGruber, as well as Ryan
Phillippe as Lt. Dixon Piper, who actually seems to know what he's
doing, if he can ever get through to MacGruber, whose home-made tactics
not only generally fail to work, but often make things worse.
Phillippe, Booth, and even Kilmer stand in for the audience as straight
men, scratching their heads at MacGruber's insanity. Taccone and Forte
give them lines that echo almost exactly what the average audience
member might be thinking when MacGruber distracts some baddies by
stripping down and utilizing a piece of celery in an interesting way.
And yet it works. It makes sense. What's surprising is the rawness of
the film: freed from the limitations of live network television,
Taccone and Forte work to earn their R-rating. Boy, do they. MacGruber
is a foul-mouthed near-deviant whose dedication to his country is
matched only by his penchant for public nudity.

Forte is a dynamo on screen, showing that he, like Will Ferrell and
others before him, will do absolutely anything to get a laugh, no
matter how potentially embarrassing. While some of these gags might
push the bounds of taste  MacGruber has a thing for "throat rips" and
the less said about his methods in the bedroom, the better  Forte's
exuberance for the character shines through. It's this commitment to
the bit that helps MACGRUBER immensely. It's all absurd, parodic, and
ultimately pointless, but it's a very entertaining 90 minutes. Taccone
and Forte have great fun messing with the conventions of action movies
in general  and "MacGyver" in particular, though I doubt MacGyver ever
offered to fellate a man to accomplish the mission. The film looks and
sounds fine, and Taccone has made a smooth transition from short form
music video parodies to action cinema; he's still got some things to
learn, but he's definitely got chops. The best thing that can be said
of MACGRUBER is that in the end, the intelligence and cleverness of its
creators situate this film happily much closer to the work of Edgar
Wright and Simon Pegg than to the Butabi Brothers. 

Let's hope this is the next step in a journey back for Lorne Michaels
to producing quality comedy. Somewhere, John Belushi is smiling.
<|_=00=_|>
just watched this, after many told me not to. got to say that it was
well worth it. forget what every review and critic has said about this
film. it's just silly fun and should be enjoyed as such. not since
zoolander has an American comedy delivered such stylistically authentic
humour throughout the whole film. I understand that a lot of critics
have used the SNL link to belittle this movie. however, fans of SNL and
those who have never seen the sketches will be mutually entertained.
there is enough here to satisfy both camps. supporting cast play their
roles well, which must've been hard given the sheer commitment to
character that Forte and Wiig demonstrate. i'll never forget that
macgruber introduced me to the concept of an "upper decker". I am the
better for it.
<|_=00=_|>
Movies based on Saturday Night Live sketches have a rough history with
very few of them being anything but awful. The last good SNL film was
almost 20 years ago with WAYNE'S WORLD and it's sequel in 1992/1993. I
have been a fan of the show for a while but I understand how hard it
can be to stretch an idea from 3 minutes to 90 or more. I'm glad Will
Forte and director Jorma Taccone have come along to revive the hope for
decent comedies based on SNL material. Based on Forte's sketch,
MacGruber is an American war hero and MacGyver parody known for failing
to disarm bombs in the nick of time. Here, he is brought out of
retirement to bring down his arch-nemesis, Dieter Von Cunth. Von Cunth
is the man who murdered MacGruber's bride on their wedding day and he's
just stolen a nuclear warhead.

I hadn't seen much of the original sketches until a friend of mine
heard about the MACGRUBER movie and sat me down to watch the sketches
on YouTube. Frankly, I wasn't all that impressed with the sketches.
Each one felt the exact same and it got less and less funny with each
one I watched. I didn't hold out much hope for the film but I gave it a
chance after seeing some positive reviews. I am so glad my initial
expectations were wrong. This movie was funny and it got more hilarious
each time I watched it. A lot of the humor in the film is downright
juvenile ("Time to go pound some Cunth") but it works. MacGruber (Will
Forte) is completely deadpan with his delivery and truly believes he is
a genius hero while those around him, friend Vicki St. Elmo (Kristin
Wiig) and Lieutenant Dixon Piper (Ryan Phillipe), are just as vexed as
the audience as to MacGruber's insane methods.

The movie reeks of old school 80's action films and does a decent job
of balancing the oddball humor with decent action sequences. Granted
there's nothing too over-the-top about the action in the movie, limited
to your basic gunfights. This movie is a comedy first and foremost.
From the little bit I'd seen of Will Forte previously, I was never a
fan but MacGruber seems to be the character he was born to play. His
wannabe machismo, overconfidence in his eccentric methods, and
dedication to his Blaupunkt car stereo are hilarious and his love
scenes are some of the funniest I've ever seen. I love Kristin Wiig's
quiet awkwardness that she brings to her characters and Ryan Phillipe
did a goo job as the film's straight man, the voice of reason against
MacGruber's idiocy. Val Kilmer must have had a great time playing
baddie Von Cunth because he's hamming it up in every scene. Kilmer was
probably my favorite part of the film and I'd love to see him do some
more comedies.

I can only urge people to give the film a chance. I know the negative
stigma associated with SNL movies but I'm hoping this film is more than
a fluke and that we can expect some more decent films from their label.
Another friend of mine fought against seeing the film but when I
finally got him to sit down and watch it, his mind had changed and now
we're constantly quoting it. Don't misconstrue my positive remarks as
complete love for the film, as it still has it's flaws, but it's still
a fun time and deserves credit for that.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie last night and it was absolutely hilarious. I wasn't a
fan of the sketch on SNL and was scared off by the poor reviews and its
box office failure, but let me tell you this movie is really, really
funny. I suppose its not for all tastes and it was a lot raunchier than
I anticipated. If you are from my generation and grew up on an action
diet of Sly Stallone, Arnold, Van Damme and Seagal, you will definitely
appreciate the humor in this flick. It does a terrific job spoofing
that genre. There is a very funny Road House reference as well, but I
wont spoil it for you. Well worth watching. Don't be turned away by the
poor reviews. I have a feeling when this one goes to DVD it'll have a
cult following. The best comedy since Step Brothers. A shame it
performed poor at the box office, because it could have made a terrific
franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh dear God, where do I start with this one? I've seen movies that made
me laugh out loud more than once before, I've even seen a movie or two
that had a scene where I laughed myself to tears. But I've never seen a
movie that had me laughing with uncontrollable tears in my eyes on
multiple occasions before.

Then I went and saw MacGruber last night.

Will Forte and the MacGruber crew are absolute comedic geniuses. And
while there wasn't explosive scenarios every 30 seconds of the movie,
like their SNL skits, it still stayed true to MacGruber and what he
represents (whatever that is).

That movie did things and touched areas that no human from the past
could ever have imagined was possible. I mean, seriously? Humping the
tombstone of your dead fiancé? I'm not gonna bother with an
explanation; you can all figure out how f'ed up that is.

Thanks to MacGruber I'll never be able to think of celery, The Big Show
or tennis balls the same way again.

On a somewhat more serious note (I can't believe I'm talking seriously
about MacGruber). The movie was an excellent parody of not only
MacGuyver, but action movies themselves. MacGruber pretty much does
everything that an action hero is supposed to do completely wrong. And
he's a bigger douche than most movie bad guys out there, yet he's still
f'n awesome.

All the positive reviews of the movie say this is the best SNL movie
since Wayne's World and the best action comedy since Beverly Hills Cop.
I say screw that, MacGruber blows both of them out of the water. I can
certainly see how people who don't like mind numbing degrading comedy
could hate this. But for everyone else who has an open mind (or a dirty
mind), you will thoroughly love MacGruber with a passion.
<|_=00=_|>
Very amusing movie, just have to be in a silly state of mind and not
expect to much than this movie will deliver a lot. A lot of silly
humour which had its affect.

This movie is crap in the best way, meaning you're watching and won't
think good of it in the first minutes but it proves you wrong and
you'll end up liking this even loving it.

All the characters have a issue that makes them fun to watch. This
movie needs you to pay some attention to get some of the things.

i give this a 5 out of 5 stars !

Line 10...
<|_=00=_|>
I have watched this movie more times than I can count. It is a little
rough around the edges and unappealing from first glance but when given
a real chance will not let down. This movie really grows on you with
multiple viewings and is sure to do the same to anyone with an open
mind. The first term that comes to mind when describing this movie is
"cult classic." This movie is raunchy in all the right ways but
balances itself out with silly humor as well. Will Forte does a great
job with this movie by giving it a facade of half-wit humor and making
fun of itself in subtle and also obvious ways. In short this movie is
has a deeper humor than people give it credit for.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never seen SNL or know what it is as I do not live in USA... but
it does not really matter, this movie does not seem to need any prior
knowledge of this show.

This movie is completely depraved, immature, idiotic, stupid & warped;
and i guess this is what makes it so much fun. It is not a serious
movie. It does not cover serious topics & provide intellectual insight.

It is a vehicle for a premise of MacGruber, who is a kinda
anti-anti-hero, whom can do no wrong and also can do no right. I loved
him, then hated him, then loved to hate loving him - the actor did a
good job of getting into character of this lunatic. The supporting cast
were pretty much just that, to provide support & provide foundation for
the slapstick.

The humour is random and very offbeat, it could be depraved at times
and was base, but the jokes were laid so thick & fast it was hard for
me to catch my breath in between the gags. Maybe they weren't suited to
a 'mature' audience but that is definitely not who this movie is
intended for. I loved it. I can kinda understand why some people may
not but hey; i got to laugh (a lot) & they didn't.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm guessing most of the people who are hating on this movie haven't
seen it yet. The bottom line is that it is very funny. It definitely
earned the R rating with loads of crude jokes, language, situations and
content. If you like over the top humor, then this film is for you. It
doesn't play out really like the SNL skits. The movie stands on its
own, with MacGruber rounding up a team to take on Dieter Von Cunth. The
hilarity ensues immediately, with joke after joke scoring big laughs.
You will see MacGruber improvise, score with the ladies(live or dead)
and get revenge on a couple occasions. MacGruber had our theater
laughing hard throughout the film.
