
I just don't get the bad and nasty reviews on here. We saw the movie
last night and thought it was very funny and cute. This is not a film
to be taken seriously it is supposed to be farce and it was nice to
unplug from the real world for two hours and just have some fun. Jamie
Lee and Sigourney where great in their respective roles and the rest of
the cast was good especially the young actor who played "Tim" he was
great and the ending is funny. If your looking for some "I don't want
to think for a while" time this is good afternoon flick to sit back,
eat popcorn and watch. You may want to wait until the DVD comes out but
this is not in anyway a bad movie. Considering the violent trash 3D
overload crap Hollywood has been vomiting onto the screen this past
year "You Again" was a breath of fresh air.
<|_=00=_|>
Sure You Again isn't Oscar-material, but I don't think it was intended
to be. But if you watch it keeping in mind that is a light-hearted, fun
summer comedy for the family, you will appreciate it, mainly because of
the strong and hilarious female cast. Sigourney Weaver, Jamie Lee
Curtis, Kristen Bell and Odette Yustman all shine on-screen in their
own ways, yet complement each other so well. The chemistry of the cast
contributes to the film's charm. I was especially impressed with
Kristen Bell because this is the first comedy/chick-flick I've
personally seen her in, and she was really cute and funny! She had a
lot of charm, great comedic timing, and I kept thinking in my head how
gorgeous she is all throughout the movie. She's a really versatile
actress. The veterans, Sigourney, Jamie Lee, and Betty White were all
hilarious as well. If you're looking for a fun, positive family film
with lots of laughs, you've found your movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Being a guy, I always wonder, with these slapstick comedies that
revolve around women with a wedding as a backdrop, do grown women over
the age of 25 really become THIS immature? In "Bride Wars", you see two
very attractive women pulling childish pranks on one another in
preparation for their respective weddings, and somehow some women went
to see that movie in droves. "You Again" received a spanking from major
critics, most of whom were male, but actually turned in a profit at the
box office.

I'm still really curious to know what women think when they see two
women in their 20's pulling mean, callow tricks on each other, then
seeing two other women in their 50's, who are attractive for their age
I might add, trying to one-up each other while taking dance lessons in
preparation for a wedding. Can real life women actually relate to these
women on screen? Do they think their antics are funny?

Speaking as a man (whether or not that's important is up to you, the
reader), I found these shenanigans ranging from cat fights to forced
slapstick comedy neither amusing nor believable. If I saw my Mom acting
the way either Jamie Lee Curtis or Sigourney Weaver do on screen, I
would get angry, and quick.

But I digress. This movie starts out on a good note showing Marni Olsen
(Kristen Bell) in high school with glasses, braces, and a bad case of
acne. Although the nerd stereotype is a bit overdone here, somehow Bell
succeeds in being unglamorous to the point where we, the audience, feel
for her.

Her main tormentor is popular cheerleader J.J. (Odette Yustman), who is
smoking hot, but effectively easy to dislike. However, the first mean
prank you see pulled on Marni is her being crowd-surfed out of school
by a group of jocks, including that mean cheerleader. Marni seems to be
angry at J.J. and only J.J., somehow forgetting that she wasn't the
only one in the crowd.

Fast forward less than a decade later, and Marni has lost the braces
and glasses, is a successful P.R. executive, and looks as hot as she
did in "Forgetting Sarah Marshall" (2008). Her post-high school
transformation is one many people would envy, but none of that matters
when she finds out that her older brother is about to marry J.J., who
is now known as Joanne.

Marni's mother Gail (Jamie Lee Curtis) tries to convince Marni to put
the past behind her. That is, of course, until it's revealed that
Joanne's aunt is Ramona (Sigourney Weaver), a woman who used to be
"best friends" with Gail in high school. However, you know that
unresolved animosity brews underneath the facade of these two women
when a flashback reveals Ramona pushing Gail into a pool. Why she did
this, the movie never really explains.

The rest of the movie remains laugh-less as Kristen Bell seems to trip
over herself and bang her head into several different people and
objects, almost as if she's Curly from The Three Stooges. One scene
shows her falling off a running path into a nest of red ants. Her love
interest tries to help her, but their heads bump into one another. Nuk
nuk nuk!

Of course, when Marni and Joanne trade blows, there is the inevitable
catfight with dialogue so vapid and uninspired. When Joanne throws a
dish at Marni, she replies, "Ooh, kitty likes to scratch!" I don't know
what other movie I've heard that phrase in, but it's probably because
it has been in at least six other films.

With such hackneyed verbal taunts comes a fight that fails to intrigue.
Dishes get broken, Marni smashes a vase Joanne got as a gift that she
claims is "so expensive" (yet looks like one you could get for $2 at
Goodwill), and Joanne dumps some sort of soup over Marni's head. Are
you laughing yet? You wonder what is wrong with these people, and why
such hot women have maturity levels that make Zach Galifianakis look
like Don Draper. Even worse, once the pratfalls come to a close, the
movie tries to sugarcoat itself with messages of peace, love and
reconciliation, and the rest of the movie is boring.

I thought Betty White would be the breath of fresh air in this movie.
After all, she was hilarious as a "Saturday Night Live" host last year.
Unfortunately, she has no really funny lines, and a really dumb gag
involving false teeth. Kristen Chenowith is also equally wasted as a
flamboyant Southern belle wedding planner who seems to be in the wrong
movie. There are also a handful of subplots that go nowhere, and scenes
completely irrelevant to the story that go on forever. The
cheerleader's dance to Kris Kross's "Jump" is energetic, but belongs in
another "Bring It On" sequel.

"You Again" is a great looking movie with likable actors in it.
Unfortunately, the lead actresses are forced to act childishly, then
mend their ways through fluffy speeches about family values, aided by
background music borrowed from past episodes of "Full House". It could
have been a memorable film, but somehow chose not to be and went the
"My Best Friend's Wedding" route.
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) Marni (Kristen Bell), a new Vice President of a large Public
Relations Agency, is returning home for her brother Will's (James Wolk)
wedding. Marni discovers that his bride Joanna (Odette Yustman) is her
former arch nemesis in high school who made her life a living hell.
Joanna is now an angel in her brother's eyes, absolutely not the
memories that Marni has of her tormentor. All of this is compounded by
the fact that the bride's wealthy Aunt Romona (Sigourney Weaver) flies
into town and comes face to face with Marni's mother Gail (Jamie Lee
Curtis), who it turns out has an old high school score to settle with
Gail. Marni must protect her brother by showing him Joanna's true
colors before he makes the biggest mistake in his life. The claws are
about to come out.

(My Comment) The movie itself is not that appealing as a romantic
comedy, but it had a great female cast. The storyline is based on a
small premise that what happens in high school lives with you forever
which is absurd. Kristen Bell's performance as the pathetic pimply face
girl with low self esteem, pressed into getting revenge, was right on
target, and Odette Yustman as her rival was also good. I think the
writers wasted the great talents of Sigourney Weaver and Jamie Lee
Curtis. However, Betty White steals every scene she is in. Patrick
Duffy and someone else (I won't say) make a cameo appearance. After
about 45 minutes, the story was a little boring, but it picked up by
the end. The lesson that is taught by this story is that you must learn
from your past and everyone is entitled to a second chance, "maybe"?
(Touchstone Pictures, Run Time 1:45, Rated PG)(4/10)
<|_=00=_|>
If nothing else, you have to like this for the high-powered cast that
was put together. With well known stars such as Jamie Lee Curtis,
Sigourney Weaver, Victor Garber and even Betty White you know there
will be quality performances. The lead actress is the lesser known
Kristen Bell (recently seen in Couples Retreat) and there are a number
of cameos from the likes of Patrick Duffy and one who pops up for only
a moment at the end who I guess I won't name since the cameo is
uncredited and should probably come as a surprise. With those names,
this couldn't be a disaster, and it wasn't.

The story has its moments. At times, it's actually very funny. Bell
plays a former high school geek whose brother is suddenly getting
married to the girl who made her teenage years a complete misery and
whose wedding she decides she wants to break up. Meanwhile her mom
(Curtis) discovers that the bride's aunt (Weaver) was someone she had a
falling out with in high school. The unnamed cameo at the end is a
continuation on the theme, with the mystery cameo being someone Betty
White's character had a falling out with in high school, so these
families have a 3 generation long feud to overcome to make this
marriage work. To me, I thought most of the laughs occurred in two
settings - when Curtis visits Weaver at her hotel and then at the
rehearsal dinner. There are a lot of laughs in those scenes.

Unfortunately, although there are some good laughs in this, there
aren't enough laughs in this. In fact, sometimes the movie gets
downright heavy and far too serious; at times the characters seem to be
truly hurtful to each other in a less than fun way, and the movie seems
to forget that it's a comedy. It does have its moments. It just needed
to have more.
<|_=00=_|>
You Again is a romantic comedy lacking both romance and comedy. It
stars Kristen Bell (who I LOVED on Veronica Mars), Odette Yustman (who
is hot), Jamie Lee Curtis (Halloween is great), and Sigourney Weaver
(Alien, anybody) Alright, so we got a pretty solid cast for a pretty
bad movie. Actually REALLY awful. 3rd worst film of 2010 for me.

So the movie starts off showing Kristen Bell as a teen playing the most
stereotypical nerd that I've seen in a long time. She's so
stereotypical that it's not believable. She was bullied by Odette
Yustman. Exactly what Odette did (besides call her Moo) is unclear, but
she was a BIG MEANIE! so several years later, Kristen bell is hotter
and her bland brother James Wolk is getting married to Odette Yustman.
Coincidentally, Odette's aunt is Sigourney Weaver. She was rivals with
Kristen's mom Jamie Lee Curtis.

This is where the "humor" comes in. A lot of pratfalls and food getting
dumped on people and Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson in a pointless and
unfunny cameo. (He previously worked with director Andy Fickman in The
Game Plan and Race to witch mountain) At only 105 minutes, this film
moves at a snail's pace and was a pain to sit through. However, I have
a rule that you can never leave a movie early because the end can
change your mind entirely. Well the end is horrible

OK yeah. So the acting. Odette Yustman is hot but CAN NOT ACT! Kristen
Bell is a good actress but she's very bland here. Betty White isn't
given enough screen time. Victor Garber (of Alias fame) does absolutely
nothing. and James Wolk is just a poor actor.

Even if you can get past the clichés and predictable storyline because
you just want some good old fashioned escapism, that still doesn't
excuse the fact that this film was boring and unfunny with a bunch of
despicable characters and not a hint of wit or charm. I can't say that
my expectations were particularly high for this movie, but I didn't
expect it to be this bad. Wow. Waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me get this out, I adore both Jamie Lee Curtis and Sigourney
Weaver, when I saw the trailer to You Again, I wanted to love this
movie so badly. Just because it has these two great actresses in it.
Well, I caught it on the movie channel and now I can see why it was
voted one of the worst movies of the year. I can forgive Jamie and
Sigourney as they are older and have made some great career choices,
they are allowed a mistake or two. However, what is Kristen Bell and
Odette Yustman's excuses? They both had promising careers with
Forgetting Sarah Marshall and Cloverfield and are now messing it up
with their latest choices like When in Rome and The Unborn. The plot is
actually really good, but the way they sugar coated it, it turned into
a total disaster of a film and completely wasted my time.

Marni, an acne-riddled high school senior with glasses and braces,
reveals how she is tormented and bullied by other girls, specifically
Joanna, who made Marni's high school life miserable. Years later, in
2010, however, she is a successful public relations executive, recently
promoted to a job in New York. When she flies home to her older
brother's wedding, she discovers her brother Will is about to marry
Joanna. Marni is also upset to see that Joanna fits in very well with
the family. The plot thickens when her mother Gail meets up with
Joanna's aunt Ramona, Gail's former best friend who pushed her into a
pool at their senior prom. Ramona is now a successful, wealthy woman
who owns several hotels and a private plane. Now they must all get
along for her brother's sake, but it's a matter of letting the past go.

One of the major things that annoyed me is Betty White. Since she was
"so adorable" in The Proposal, they figured they needed a "hip granny"
for this movie too, it was rather pathetic and she looks like she's
just about to give up on life. Then with the plot, it's like it had
bipolar disorder, it just didn't know what it wanted. First Joanna is
evil, then she's good, then she's evil, then she's good, then she's
evil again, then she's good again? It didn't work, why not just make
her evil all the way? Then our "hero", Marni, is just as evil as
Joanna. She can't let go of the past and just makes a total fool of
herself during the movie. How is her character likable? She says she
loves her brother so much, yet she can't let high school go? People
change and she never gave Joanna a chance to see if she had grown up or
not. For someone who is so successful now, you'd think she would put
that as her revenge.

Then to top it all off, they end the movie with throwing a random guy
who has 5 minutes of screen time as Marni's love interest. God forbid
they have a girl remain single in a film, it's just so sad to leave her
alone. The only thing I found redeeming about this movie was Jamie and
Sigourney, they had great chemistry and honestly I would have rather
had the movie be about them. They were spot on with their comedy and
were great to see on screen bouncing off each other with their lines.
But this was just a horrible movie, pathetically put together and I
would say just stay away from this movie. I can forgive Jamie and
Sigourney, but I pity the other fools who took some zangy drugs to say
yes to this script.

1/10
<|_=00=_|>
I just randomly picked this up from a DVD stand and am sorry that I
did. This movie was utter crap. I'm sorry, but it was. I'd give the
plot a C+, but the execution of it was terrible! F for the way it was
presented!

(SPOILERS) The acting was bad, too. I'm sorry, but it was. Especially
during the rehearsal dinner! I also felt that the character development
showed little to none, so when all the outbursts happened, I didn't
completely understand why. Why was the groom so affected? I didn't
sympathize with him at all. Why did Joanna back out of her engagement
with Tim? And who in the world WAS Tim?! He didn't even make any
important changes to the plot other than that stupid dinner! Also, I
disliked Joanna. Even until the ending. She just seemed like such a
bitch! Such a phony! Ugh. So many useless characters plus below average
acting. It made the film even worse than it already was. (/SPOILERS)

"When a young woman realizes her brother is about to marry the girl who
bullied her in high school, she sets out to expose the fiancée's true
colors." It sounds like a good story line, don't you think? It makes us
think that many crazy revenge plots would happen and make us laugh. Sad
to say, that just wasn't the case with this movie. This movie just
wasn't entertaining. But I'll give it props for having a couple of
funny scenes that gave me a few giggles.

I did not give this a 3/10 for the slapstick humor, though. I gave it a
3 for the moral. As of now, I'm hating high school and it makes me
think. What will happen in 8 years? Will I be the same person that I am
now? It just made me wonder. For making my brain churn, this movie gets
a 3 rating. And that is pretty generous.

Don't bother watching this. Waste of time. Your 105 minutes would be
better used by rewatching Bride Wars, instead. Bad movie. I just can't
wrap my head around it. I was expecting something good to let the night
fly by, but this just wasted my time.
<|_=00=_|>
Marni (Kristen Bell), like many of the rest of us, had a tough time in
high school. Among her chief tormentors was JJ (Odette Yustman), the
captain of the cheerleading squad and all around snob. But Marni bucks
up and uses the bullying she experienced as a goad toward achievement
after graduation. Whatever her motivations, Marni's achievements can't
be questioned: She's named a vice president of her public relations
firm just before she heads home for her older brother's wedding.

Marni and her brother Will (Jimmy Wolk) have always been close, and
she's both devastated and furious when she discovers the bride-to-be is
none other than her high school nemesis who now answers to the name
Joanna. Marni's mother (Jamie Lee Curtis) is sympathetic, but tells
Marni that high school is in the past and she needs to move on. That
advice comes easily to Gail until she discovers Joanna's Aunt Ramona
(Sigourney Weaver) is her own high school nemesis.

Despite the happy occasion that has gathered the family together, Marni
is less than thrilled. After all, JJ wasn't the best of persons in high
school, and Marni can't imagine she's changed much! After an awkward
reunion and family dinner, Marni and her younger brother Ben decide to
do what they can to derail the nuptials.

Kristen Bell is a very pretty girl, and it couldn't have been easy to
transform her into the unattractive high school geek that Marni was
supposed to have been. Yet make-up artists and Bell's adoption of some
less than pretty tics make you believe in the earlier version of Marni.
Odette Yustman also does a good job as the pretty, popular girl whose
mission in life is to make Marni miserable. Some of the movie's best
moments come, though, as the result of the past and present rivalry
between Jamie Lee Curtis and Sigourney Weaver. I'd be very surprised if
the two of them had less than a ball doing their scenes together
because it certainly shows on screen that way.

The story itself is relatively predictable, and the direction, while
competent, is nothing special. The script is marred by moments of
melodrama that undermine the otherwise marginal believability of the
story, and though the actors handle their lines well, even genuine
talent isn't enough to overcome some of the things they must say and
do. In particular, poor Kristen Chenoweth in a role as the wedding
planneran actress I consider a truly brilliant talentis stuck in a
role where the caricature overwhelms even her formidable abilities.
While Betty White (who portrays Marni's Grandma Bunny) is also silly,
she, at least, gets away with it.

BOTTOM LINE: You Again is often diverting, and has enough elements of
realism in it to make you recall your own high school days (for good or
for ill), but it doesn't overcome the limitations imposed on it by its
script, or a story that we've all frankly heard before. I was
moderately entertained and mildly amused in the theatre, but when the
movie was played out, I was less than fulfilled. ADDENDUM: Stay for the
credits. Trust me.

POLITICAL NOTES: None.

FAMILY SUITABILITY: You Again is rated PG for "brief mild language and
rude behavior." Produced by Touchstone (a Disney-owned company), the
largely family-friendly fare is no real surprise. While I wouldn't
recommend You Again for really young children (it's not going to hold
their interest nor will they understand some of the complications that
ensue from various and sundry misunderstandings or manipulations), most
parents should have no problem with their tweens or teens buying a
ticket.
<|_=00=_|>
Mari (Kristin Bell) was bullied at school for being a spotty geek with
specs and braces. Having grown into a successful businesswoman, she is
horrified to discover that her beloved older brother's fiancée is
Joanna (Odette Yustman), the leader of the high school bullies who
victimised her. Her mother Gail (Jamie Lee Curtis) tells her to let it
go until it turns out that Joanna's rich aunt Ramona (Sigourney
Weaver), who is funding the wedding, occupies a similar position in her
own past. And Mari, believing that Joanna's apparent near perfection is
all put on, goes on the attack to protect her brother.

This is all rather good, if improbable, fun. Kristin Bell does fairly
well with a part which is fairly vindictive (in what she believes is a
good cause) for much of the film, as well as somewhat contradictory.
Odette Yustman does better as Joanna, a character who is allowed to
show high school nastiness and an apparently reformed side - there is
much more shading here.

But the two older women have the meatier roles, and both relish the
opportunity to play fairly broad comedy (although Jamie Lee Curtis does
frequently slip over the edge into gurning caricature). There are also
some entertaining supporting characters, with Kyle Bornheimer's Tim
delivering a particularly funny "speech" at the wedding rehearsal.

The humour is a pleasing mix of situational, character, wordplay, and
slapstick, with only the unfunny and unnecessary bathroom sequence
falling flat.

And the film resolves nicely - notwithstanding the nastiness which
drives most of the film, things end well.

I enjoyed this.
