
I left the cinema speechless; i normally try to critique and discuss
the film straight after, but i was speechless. It was the craziest film
i have seen in a long time. It takes boundaries and tells them to f***
off. There are no restrictions with this film. There is brutality,
sexism, racism, oppression, homophobia. It is polluted with prejudice.
But i thought it was a great film. Am i part of those worldly problems?
No. But let's face it, this is unfortunately the way the world is and
all this film is doing is showing you just how filthy this world can
be. 

James McAvoy is a revelation as Detective Bruce Robertson; i really
didn't see all the fuss with him. Yes he was good in "The Last King of
Scotland", but the rest of the films i just couldn't match the hype to
the actor, then i went to see "Trance" and i was blown away by his
performance. And if it weren't for seeing that i probably wouldn't have
been half as eager to see this. Because he showed the ability to
portray more than one character in a film; someone who is both fragile
and unstable. With "Filth" he excels beyond that and gives his best
showing of his young career. He conveys every emotion, from bitterness,
to regret, to sadness, to rage, to insanity and he conveys them
extremely convincingly. It is a masterclass of acting. 

Some may be easily offended, and if you are usually like that, i would
avoid seeing the film. But if you want to face the World and its
obvious problems head on (in the form of a film) then it is an
outstanding film to do so.
<|_=00=_|>
Mister Tumnus, I've a feeling we're not in Narnia any more 

Think you know James McAvoy? Think again. His performance in Jon S.
Baird's adaptation of Irving Welsh's Filth is astounding and there is
nothing sweet or fluffy about it or any other aspect of the film. Filth
is very funny, very wrong, very sordid and very likely to incite hatred
from Daily Mail readers across the land. Sex, drugs, more sex, more
drugs, violence, corruption, depravity, even more sex and drugs Filth
is absolutely, well, filthy, and is a memorable experience to say the
least.

My companion for the screening, Bag, made two comments that stood out
post-screening. The first I agree with entirely: "With the thousands of
films I've seen over the years, this is the first one I've come out of
wishing that I'd made it." The second, that it was a film to appreciate
rather than enjoy, I'm going dispute. Call me debauched, immoral and
twisted, but I enjoyed every last nanosecond of Filth.

But that's not to say it is always easy viewing. Far from it. Sometime
after the midway point the laughs die down, the stomach churns a little
more uneasily, the grimaces are more evident and the intakes of breath
are more audible. We are less willing to forgive but, like the car
crash up ahead that has caused all the drivers in front to rubber-neck,
well, just one long look as we pass can't hurt, can it? 

Bruce Robertson (McAvoy) is a bigot. He's bi-polar, a junkie,
sex-obsessed, self-obsessed, manipulative and frequently thoroughly
unpleasant. He's also a cop. With a promotion in the balance, Bruce is
up against several colleagues and sets about turning one against the
other, unsettling them with salacious gossip and blatant lies to ensure
he beats them to the post. Throw in his manipulation of fellow
freemason Bladesey (Eddie Marsan), his sultry wife, Carole (Shauna
MacDonald) and his hallucinatory sessions with Doctor Rossi (Jim
Broadbent) and you have one monumentally screwed up anti-hero. And
what's not to love about that? 

The Cohen brothers may have the monopoly on fantastic character names,
but nobody writes actual characters like Welsh and the cast that Baird
has poured into Filth is staggeringly good in their interpretation of
this mess of freaks and misfits. There isn't a poor performance in the
entire film from the uncertain laddishness of Ray (Jamie Bell) to the
fantastic absurdity of Doctor Rossi. While none are bona fide Hollywood
stars, the cast that glitters in a maniacal, dirty way is a treat
beyond expectation: Imogen Poots, Shirley Henderson, Gary Lewis (yes,
Billy Elliott and his dad are reunited at last!), John Sessions, Joanne
Froggatt 

Filth is a perfectly paced film; it roars ahead stirring emotions and
judgment, exciting and thrilling as it trashes everything in its wake
but it is never so fast that we feel left behind or that we've missed
out on a juicy morsel of degeneracy. Sufficient time is allowed for us
to filter through, as best we can, the quagmire that is Bruce's life,
but Baird never pauses or permits us time to glance at our watch or
neighbour.

The soundtrack, too, is bang on the money stamping though a musical
landscape that is at times acceptably cheesy and more often a reminder
of what to check is on the iPod. Where else can you effortlessly segue
from David Soul into Shaking' Stevens? While the latter is consigned to
audio wallpaper, the bizarrely fantastic cameo from David Soul is a
delight. Had Dennis Potter snorted cocaine Pennies From Heaven might
have resembled this.

Yes, there are elements of Welsh's novel that are missing (no police
dogs here) from Filth but there always have to be excisions for film
adaptations and there's no reason, in this instance at least, to mark
down a film for that. No, Filth is superb and as near to perfect as
I've seen for many months (since Broken and Trance).

If the trailer excited you, take the plunge. If you're a nun, a granny,
my mother, or lack a strong stomach and nurture your prudishness, take
a very long, very fast walk in the direction of something much safer.
Dixon of Dock Green this ain't! 

If you look in the mirror and see something slightly off-kilter
grinning back, however 

For more reviews from The Squiss, subscribe to my blog and like the
Facebook page.
<|_=00=_|>
There is no other way that I could describe this film. It is filled
with some of the most crazy and strange scenes that I have seen in
film. There was weird sex, masturbating, murder, drugs. Pretty much
everything offensive that you could think of is in this film. 

It made me laugh, cringe and frown at some of the ridiculous stuff that
happened in it.

Deep in the storyline though, was an utterly captivating, yet tragic
story of a man loosing his mind to drugs, mental illness and grief. In
many ways it was this that made the film all the more shocking, but
brilliant at the same time. 

I came out of the theatre speechless, I had no idea what to make of it
or think. Now I have thought about it, I can see how good it really
was. 

James McAvoy gave a perfect performance in the lead role. Everything
about the character that he portrayed was realistic, and I could feel
the emotion coming out of him throughout his descent into madness.

This film is not for the faint of heart or easily disturbed, but if you
can deal with the weird and wacky, then you are going to love it.
<|_=00=_|>
I had such high hopes for this movie after seeing some of the most
intriguing trailers I've ever seen. I was not disappointed what so
ever.

I liked this title so much I would actually fit it into my top 10 of
all time.

Without spoiling much for anyone, it really is filth. The movie
definitely earns its 18 rating because at times, it is quite literally
hardcore pornography.

Bruce is one of the most complex characters I've ever seen in a movie.
It took a while to decipher exactly what was going wrong with him, but
it because clear by the end.

I want to make it clear to people going into this movie what they
should expect. Expect a lot of violence, a lot of swearing, pornography
& masturbation, depression and mental illness. It's a movie for those
who don't get offended very easily. 

In summary, this movie will make you laugh, it'll make you cringe &
it'll make you happy. The overall feeling at the end though, is that
you're watching a man lose his mind, & you see his depression take over
his body in many different ways.

I'm giving it 10/10 because I thought everything about it was so
perfectly done. It achieved exactly what it set out to do, it achieved
utter filth.
<|_=00=_|>
This is another film adaptation of an Irvine Welsh novel that was
referred to as "unfilmable", although when reading the book when it
first came out I for one was struck by the tightness of the narrative
and the cinema-friendly focus on a single protagonist.

The antihero in question is Bruce Robertson (James McAvoy), a dodgy
copper trying to make the most of a promotion opportunity by ruining
his rivals through a series of cruel intricate schemes. Meanwhile, his
mind is deteriorating, and he's haunted by flashbacks, waking dreams,
and humanoid livestock. The film is fairly faithful to the source, and
the changes (including some understandably blunted edges) are down to
the different artform.

Irvine Welsh has said that McAvoy's performance is better than De
Niro's in Taxi Driver. I don't think this is a suitable comparison.
Scorsese's seminal feature was about a post-traumatic depression,
whereas Jon S. Baird's film is more manic. For me, the film Filth most
resembles is A Clockwork Orange. Like Kubrick's masterpiece, the entire
aesthetic is informed by the subjectivity of the central character. And
there are subtler nods: the use of classical music, the bleached
windows, Jim Broadbent's reinvention of the Deltoid character (a
probation officer then, a psychiatrist now), and the visual reference
to 2001: A Space Odyssey.

Before the film's release, I wasn't convinced by the casting of McAvoy,
but after watching it I can safely say he's transformative  to capture
such bipolar savagery and the fear in a single facial expression is the
sign of a special performance. The supporting cast provides a colourful
blend of caricatures. Jamie Bell, Eddie Marsan and Imogen Poots all
make an impact in the few moments when McAvoy isn't dominating the
screen.

For me, the dud notes concern the tone of the film. Sometimes Baird's
shifts between the schizoid black comedy of Robertson's outbursts and
his introspective guilt about his past are so sudden and sentimental
that their capacity to convince is lost in the (lack of) transition.
Part of this is down to Clint Mansell's disappointingly soft score,
whose tinkly piano and lifeless strings often feel incongruous, more
awkward than deliberate.

But these minor issues don't detract from a powerful, funny, and
finally moving depiction of mental disintegration. To say that it's the
best Welsh adaptation since Trainspotting may not be saying much  so
I'll say instead that it's a very good film in its own right.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are a friend of funny, thrilling and bizarre movies, you're
gonna love this one! First of all, this movie manages to surprise you
again and again till the end. It switches between funny, dramatic and
thrilling elements. James McAvoy gives an amazing performance (by far
the best I've seen from him) as the funny, manipulative, sick,
drug-addicted, broken, Cop and manages to portrait every aspect of the
character. Another piece of awesome acting is delivered by Jim
Broadbent who plays his psychologist. The dialogues between him and
James McAvoy are just amazing! The rest of the cast is also decent and
the characters are all very special in a refreshing way. The only bad
thing i can mention about this movie is, that it has some (but small)
longueurs. I can recommend it to everyone who likes movies of this kind
and has no problem with movies containing a lot of sex, drugs and
f*cked up moments :)
<|_=00=_|>
Probably my favourite film of 2013 so far. Gripping all the way
through, with all the aspects you need from a feature length film. Yes,
it has the obvious overtone of 'filth', but it's not at all in its
nature... it's humorous and very touching at times. I think the casting
is brilliant and I have a new found respect for James McAvoy, who in
previous films I have found to be almost nondescript. He shines here,
brighter than most Oscar winning performers I've seen. Ray Donovan's
Eddie Marson is also fantastic in his role, so well cast - he's funny
and warm in such a subtle way. This is not one of those situations when
someone can rightly say 'the book is better' - I think the job has been
done so well of adapting it into film format that the book is not
better at all, just a different experience. It is honestly a film I
want to see again. I think an instant classic, not filthy at all, but
pure class.
<|_=00=_|>
Inside the mind of a sex & drug addict policeman. His addictions are so
deeply rooted in his personhood that they have entirely taken over his
life and are the driving force in everything he does or does not do.
Addiction means there's never enough and in his case drugs or sex.

This could have easily been a docudrama, instead it is a crime/comedy
with a bit of drama. McAvoy is simply superb as the central mad hero
and we undergo with a him a binging trip in corruption and debauchery
where everyone in his life become objects he comes to use for his own
gratification.

Despite the comic element being the one that has the most gravity, we
get to see the torment that haunts addicted people and he too is a
tormented man and his actions are a smokescreen of his anguish with his
refusal to get hep only adding to his misery.

Quirky, fast paced and fun this is one heck of a mind trip.
<|_=00=_|>
We have had a few fairly unremarkable adaptations of Scottish novelist
Irvine Welsh's books, supporting the notion that with the one exception
of Danny Boyle's phenomenal 'Trainspotting', his material remains
pretty much impossible to put on the screen. Indeed, 'Trainspotting'
itself was not a direct adaption as such, but rather an extrapolation
of bits and pieces of it to make a cohesive narrative. In the Welsh
lore, 'Filth' is put up there as one of the most difficult, and so it
is with great surprise that Jon Baird's take on the book is not only a
good piece of work, but also perhaps one of the most accomplished films
of 2013! 

Our protagonist, as is so often the case with Welsh, is not a person we
would choose to meet. Detective Sargent Bruce Robertson is
mean-spirited, racist, sexist, aggressive, vindictive, with a
psychiatric disorder and a bitter past that won't let him rest, which
he seems most happy to appease with a regular cocktail of drink,
cocaine and sexual debauchery behind his colleagues' and family's back.
Manipulative and out for himself, Bruce has a plan to appear to be
solving the case of a murdered local resident, whilst playing all his
colleagues off one another with a view to clearing an easy path for his
own promotion to Chief Detective.

There are plenty of treats strewn through 'Filth', little cameos,
smart, snappy dialogue, great jokes and wonderful performances from the
likes of the ever versatile Jim Broadbent and Eddie Marsan. A subtle,
schizophrenic soundtrack underscores so well the dark, cesspit nature
of the journey the character is on, it raises the question, again, as
to whether Clint Mansell will ever do wrong? The whole thing is shot
with a seemingly intentional recklessness; an abandonment of sharp
editing and an embrace of a sloppy, rough-around-the edges, almost
unfocused approach make a film that feels as disgusting as the vomit
spewing from character's mouths, both figuratively and, at times,
literally! 

The star here, however, is James MacEvoy. There has been much said
about his performance being an Oscar courting one; whilst there is no
guarantee of that, I am confident in saying this is a career-best from
him, and this cannot be overstated. Welsh has said he thinks MacEvoy is
"better than De Niro in Taxi Driver", and whilst I do not know if I
agree with that, we can certainly understand the comparison. MacEvoy is
not a man one might immediately cast in this role, and so it makes it
all the more impressive when we watch a performance that simultaneously
keeps us at a distance and pulls us close; the actor manages to be
completely vile, and yet convince us with an equal conviction that he
is a man with a buried and forgotten heart that used to pump warmth; I
have not seen this level of complexity so well delivered since Peter
Mullan in 'Tyrannosaur'. Scabrous, nasty, cold and angry, yet obviously
vulnerable and lost, this is a perfectly balanced, well-rounded
performance, and MacEvoy is perhaps most impressive when he is being
everything at once! In one such scene, he says, "I used to be good at
this job," which could well sum up Robertson's rather sad arc. Whatever
your final take on him, we get a complete human being, and not one we
ever feel the desire to condemn, despite all his awfulness.

In the face of common opinion that it simply wouldn't work, and after
years of development, 'Filth' turns out to be a near masterpiece, whose
recognition as such is only made less likely by the inevitable
comparison with 'Trainspotting'. It is a ballsy adaption of a hugely
admired novel, as unpredictable as its central character and charged
with the vitriolic energy of the author's writing. A well balanced
juggling act of tones; in lesser hands this would have been a mess! It
is not always a pleasant watch, but like the central character, it
finds its way to a strange, engaging and even rather emotional
resolution. Whilst there is likely to be a good forty percent of casual
viewers who are left completely cold, the remaining will see a
successful, proudly Scottish film that is by turns dark, shocking,
comical and moving, which also goes out on an incredibly catchy and
surprisingly fitting 70's hit! 

'Filth' is the film we would hail as the Irvive Welsh-penned grenade of
British cinema, if only Danny Boyle had not got there first.
<|_=00=_|>
Remember when Ewan McGregor played in a little movie called
Trainspotting? The film was made after a book by Scottish writer Irvine
Welsh and it was an intense and often funny window into the complete
wasting of human life due to heroin. It made McGregor famous.

Now, James McAvoy has no need to be made famous, he already is, and he
showed he is a great actor in several movies; he is on a roll. But in
this film, also made from an Irvine Welsh book, he really outdid
himself, playing a deranged police inspector torn apart by addiction,
grief and madness.

The film itself is difficult to explain and, perhaps, it would be more
clear to me if I would have read the book first. Some of the characters
I have no idea who they were and why he was interacting with them in
the first place. Also the ending is pretty much the antithesis of the
one in Trainspotting. Here, there is no hope.

The direction was good, I guess, as well as the general production
values. A bunch of known, but usually secondary actors fill the cast,
with often interesting results, but let's face it, the film is mostly a
one man show and McAvoy was up for the job. I just wish the story would
have been less confusing.

Conclusion: it would be a shame not to watch this film, even if you end
up not liking it for some reason. You need to be familiar with Scottish
accents or use a subtitle to get what people are saying. Other than
that, great work, James!
