
While parts of the movie peaked my interest, overall, it was very
disappointing. A vague plot, poor script, weak effects and actors
trying their best to make it work. Too bad they failed. A movie with
this premise has great potential, it can lead the viewer down a path
and let the audience intellectually fill in the blanks. In order for
that to occur, the movie itself must provide the plot points, the
material that that allows, and draws the viewer to want to connect the
dots and create, so to speak, their own movie within a movie. I just
gave up, and so, apparently, did the filmmakers. I won't gave away
anything, because there really isn't anything to tell.
<|_=00=_|>
Well this movie has a good cast and even a decent concept, but its
missing something that would make it much,much better. A decent ending
and 'some' explanation. While i'm sure the the writers wanted to leave
an air of mystery at the end, there was just too little build up in
between. The actors did a decent job with what they had, I mean it
wasn't there fault. The problem was we really have no idea about
anything going on in the movie all the way through. Even when we start
start seeing it first hand there is still no explanation. Still, as it
the movie itself was OK(I guess) and is deserving of its 6 rating. I'm
just disappointed as it felt unfinished and rushed and I know it
could've been so much better.

I definitely wouldn't advise paying for this movie, but if you come
across it on cable and you have nothing to do, check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was at the box office? Yep. It opened on 1 screen. The next 
week it was in 6 theaters across the U.S. Then down to 5, then down to 
4 and then gone completely after only 28 days of release. I don't know 
the story behind why it only opened on 1 screen but I sure as hell 
would love to hear it. Why does a studio do that? Tax write-off? Poor 
test screenings? Riots at the theater because it was so bad? The latter 
can't be the case because it doesn't start off bad.... funny enough, it 
starts out excellent....

We meet Paul (Leguizamo) at an AMC movie theater (nice plug, btw) 
hitting on the concession clerk (Jordan Trovillion). We meet Luke 
(Christensen) at his female colleague's (Erin Nicole) house. We meet 
Rosemary (Newton) at the clinic. These three don't know each other yet, 
but they're going to be thrust together by circumstance. Everyone in 
their immediate area for blocks and blocks disappear (nothing but 
clothes left in their place -- rapture?). If that's not mystery enough 
for you, then maybe this is: daylight seems to be gradually 
disappearing... every day gets shorter and shorter... until finally, 
there's nothing but darkness. And whatever that is in the darkness 
itself.

What a way to start a movie. Don't worry, there's no spoilers here... 
all of this happens in the first 5 minutes, people. It instantly got my 
attention (hook, line and sinker) and made my mind to start unraveling 
the mystery of what the hell is going on here. Why didn't these people 
get taken? Why is it pitch black outside when it is 11 o'clock in the 
morning? What is that evil force that seems to be living in the dark? 
Why does the light push the dark away? Why won't any of their 
electronics work? How are these three people going to get out of this 
situation and survive? Unfortunately, that's all this movie has -- 
questions. Not a single damn question is answered either. Not one! It's 
like the screenwriter wrote the first half of the script and then took 
a vacation somewhere nice and sunny and when he returned home, he seen 
how many messages he got from his agent asking him where the hell his 
new script is and quickly wrote the second half because he forgot all 
about it! I haven't been this mad at a movie since I saw "Signs" (since 
water kills them, they invade Earth, which is 75% water, yeah, that's 
extremely logical) or "Castaway" (hey, Chuck Nolan, you've just 
survived a deserted island, what are you going to do now....hey, where 
ya going.... at least tell us where you're headed!!).

The acting between the three leads are just okay, to boot. No stand 
alone performances in the film and you would think that being stuck in 
this situation, a good director would be able to get some real raw 
emotions from his cast. The movie does have some fine creepy moments 
and the "beings" in the dark even gave me some chills sometimes... but 
it doesn't mean anything if nothing is answered! I was surprised that 
Ashton Kutcher didn't come out on screen after the end credits to 
inform me that I had just been punk'd...because I certainly fell for it 
(hook, line, STINKER). Final 
Grade: D+
<|_=00=_|>
Quite frankly when I sit down to watch a film like this I'm not
expecting fireworks, but I do like to be entertained. That being said,
this film lacks everything, apart from production value. Honestly,
that's it. There is nothing I hate more than a movie that does not
deliver on, plot, character development and sense. Yes, sense.
Strangely these, things, can turn off any light they want apart from
when it deviates from the ridiculous storyline (what there was of it),
and the addition of momentary dogma from one character, which was
quickly forgotten, is a tragic if not rife Hollywood device which never
goes anywhere. It is in all it's tragic glory a sad reminder of the
tripe that passes as screen-writing these days. I could go on longer,
or indeed put this in paragraphs, but just like the film-makers, I just
can't be arsed.
<|_=00=_|>
In the same vein as 'The Happening' this film has a mass event that
seems to wipe out a huge chunk, if not all, the worlds population bar a
few random pockets of survivors.

I love these types of films when they are done right but this is a
complete mess. The plot is something that could be written on the back
of a stamp and the ending leaves you completely unfulfilled and none
the wiser as to what has happened and why. 

The characters don't inspire any kind of sympathy or have you rooting
for their survival and the mechanism they used to stay alive is
completely inconsistent. 

I didn't pay to see this, yet still felt ripped off. Easily the worst
film I've seen in the last few years.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is really mysterious and starts with great promise - people
disappearing in the darkness - well, this is frightening. It is not too
logical - some things do happen but somehow contradicts the story logic
(ie. small girl with solar powered flashlight somehow survives even if
there is mentioned that the Sun rises only for a few hours, hardly to
recharge the flashlight).

All right. I'm willing to accept even less logical movies like Japanese
horror movies which often do not respect time or actual causality.
However these movies usually do try to explain what his happening and
why it is happening (with several theories how to resolve the
situation, often wrong).

But there is hardly any explanation here, only "signs" which may be
interpreted in many ways. The ending is sudden, hardly explains
anything and left me unsatisfied. Is the happening local or global? Is
it transitory or final? Is it demonic or end of the world caused by
God? The movie focuses on (not too successful) attempts to survive but
provides way too few answers. The feeling is depressing, which is good,
but I really lack the climax. The ending was somehow abrupt and
unsatisfactory. I like it, but it is only "good", not "great".
<|_=00=_|>
I rated this one with 3 out of 10 to pay my respects to the acting
crew. Other than that, this movie is simply horrible. There's nothing
new in the story. We've seen it a million times before. It's the same
old story, only put out in a different way. And talking about clich√©s?
Just wait for the ending. The whole concept of the movie reminds me of
those "end of the world", and "the new virus has spread across the
universe, and only a small group of people have survived" movies,
except things that are causing troubles here, are a bit... different
and pretty dull. I couldn't really see any point that was supposed to
be made. Maybe I'm wrong, but I think this world would have been a
better place if this movie had never been made.
<|_=00=_|>
"Spoiler Alert!" This review contains spoilers.

This movie looks pretty much like "I am legend", 'though it is not as
exciting or does not have Will Smith in it, but it is about the same
thing, a sort of trying to survive when there are so few people left.
It is a combination of a thriller (hardly), a horror (mostly) and many
bad decisions. 

Its start raises one question, what happened to the people from the
theater ? But I was waiting for answers, saw that the plot was not that
original, as I've mentioned before, but why not, the darkness will kill
you, so STAY IN THE LIGHT ! So the movie brings together 4 people,each
one with his/her own story, most of them should not have lived to see
this moment. Why ? Both the male adults are displayed as standing in
the dark for couple of seconds and guess what ? The darkness does not
kill them, but comes for them (quite slowly, comparing to how 3 of them
die later) and accomplishes nothing, but just a tease. 

So I said to myself, OK, maybe there is a meaning, the Darkness vs. the
Light, the voices that you should not listen (but they all do, like how
stupid can you be not to listen, come on !!) and how to find a way for
surviving. Of course, there is only one car with a battery not dead
(ironically, as in a kind of bad movie idea) and the batteries for the
flash lights are VERY limited, the light an be barely obtained, but
why, just why don't they wait for the sun to come up and try to go to
Chicago, why are they so boldly stupid, why ? 

So, I'll give it a 4 out of 10, although it deserved 7, until the boy
remained alone in the church. The questions remained answered until the
movie ended are :

1. As even they are asking themselves, how come they've reached the
same spot, almost in the same time, why ?

2. How come the 2 male adults survived, although it is seen that both
should have died ( at least the first one, in the theater), hit by
someone (???) ?

3. What's the thing with the darkness and the shadows and the non-
sense, is there any sense to this movie or what ? 

4. After returning (as if the conscious hit him) to the church, why was
that actor so, again, boldly stupid to stay out of the car for so long
that the light would go off, why ?

5. How come the kid survives the darkness, just because he says "I
exist" ?

6. What's with the "I exist" exclamation, does that make a person
stronger, in what way ? 

7. What's with the girl that always is found on the street, is she
insane or is she part of the Big Plan of the movie of not understanding
it at all ? 

8. Just before the end, how come a horse survived the darkness and what
was it doing in the street ? 

9. The ending, oh my God, the ending : why would two kids ride a horse
towards (hopefully) Chicago, when darkness is coming, or is it
"working" only in the city ?

If you want my advice, don't watch this movie, unless you're curios
about it because, guess what, you won't be feeling in any way better
after seeing it.
<|_=00=_|>
An unexplained blackout plunges the city of Detroit into total
darkness, and by the time the sun rises, only a few people
remain-surrounded by heaps of empty clothing, abandoned cars and
lengthening shadows. A small handful of strangers that have survived
the night each find their way to a rundown bar, whose gasoline-powered
generator and stockpile of food and drink make it the last refuge in a
deserted city. With daylight beginning to disappear completely and
whispering shadows surrounding the survivors, they soon discover that
the enemy is the darkness itself, and only the few remaining light
sources can keep them safe. As time begins to run out for them,
darkness closes in and they must face the ultimate terror. -- (C)
Magnolia

I hate to use something from RUBBER, a film I loathed, but it fits so
well here: VANISHING uses the plot of "no reason," a plot that raises
many questions but doesn't answer them by the time the credits roll. It
is this very reason why the film is disliked by many. Yet, films like
THE HAPPENING, KNOWING, and THE FORGOTTEN get bashed because of the
explanations of their plots. Go figure. Yes, as human beings, we often
want to make sense of events that occur, especially in films, yet we
need to realize things in life just happen. VANISHING may be low on
explanation, but it's high on suspense due to the use of a common fear:
the dark.

Let's take a moment to talk about why so many people fear the darkness:
It's not the darkness itself that people are afraid of, but rather, the
fear of the unknown. Just what is lurking in the darkness? VANISHING
uses this fear and capitalizes on it which generates many of the films'
unnerving moments. In fact, its resistance on explaining everything is
what makes the film scary. And no, the film doesn't use any "pop out"
scares. It's better than that. The film builds up its scares with a
chilling atmosphere. That, ladies and gentlemen, is called suspense,
and don't be surprised. Director Brad Anderson is in the chair. With
films like TRANSIBBERIAN and THE MACHINEST already under his belt,
Anderson knows how to make films that are thrilling.

The cast is good as well, but that's probably because I have a soft
side for them. Haters of Hayden Christensen will find themselves
unconvinced, but I thought he pulled off a good performance. Although
their characters don't ask for much, John Leguizamo and the beautiful
Thandie Newton do a great job providing sympathy to their roles. Jacob
Latimore, the kid actor, plays quite an annoying character at first,
which shouldn't be a surprise, but I got to eventually warm up to him
in the middle point of the film.

Overall, VANISHING impressed me. While there may be some inconsistency
in its high-concept premise, it really makes up for it on the scares.
The actors are good as well and the production values are great for a
small film like this. Give this film a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
OK - let me start by saying this isn't a BAD film. Its just that
there's no pay-off at the end. You're left with a "So what WAS going
on?" feeling. All successful stories have a start, a middle and an end.
Vanishing on 7th Street is missing the 'end'.

The acting, direction and camera work all make the grade - but thats
all. Its almost as if they've JUST managed to do enough to warrant
getting paid. While there are a few nice touches during the film, there
isn't anything here that you wont have seen before. Although I was
surprised by one event close to the end which I wont ruin by revealing
here.

Unless you have some reason to watch this film I wouldn't waste the
time. There are 100s of 'fair/mediocre' films out there so choose one
that at least has a proper 'end'.

5/10
