
As suggested by its title the film is a sequel to the late nineties Hit
flick "EAST IS EAST". But it really doesn't matter if you haven't seen
its first part as the movie is quite self explanatory for the viewer,
without depending much on its original. Clearing the confusion which
might be there looking at its promos, it's an English film with a
regular use of Punjabi language throughout its almost 2 hours of
duration and has some great soulful tracks in Punjabi too.

Where EAST IS EAST was more English, witty and entertaining, its
present sequel is more traditional, emotional and meaningful in
comparison. In the first part (released in 1999), the script revolved
around the youngster's fast life in England, but in its present new
version, the family visits their mother land, Pakistan and tastes the
traditional way of life in a village. For the viewers not familiar with
the story, WEST IS WEST is basically about Om Puri (who was a Pakistani
national), now happily settled in England, with his new family looked
after by his second wife who is a loving British Lady. After few
incidents of his youngest son being bullied in the school and also
getting caught for shop lifting, Om decides to take him to Pakistan and
introduce him to his own culture. And there we get to see some
impressive transforming sequences involving everyone in the family.

The film doesn't excite you enough in its first 10 minutes but as soon
as the family reaches Pakistan, the pace picks up and some new
interests are generated by the script. But here I would like to mention
that apart from a few comic scenes mostly dealing with the language
conflicts, WIW is not a comedy film from any angle. In fact that is a
wrong kind of promotion strategy followed by its makers. As a result
all the viewers opting for it taking it as a Brit-Asian comedy are
going to be disappointed for sure.

On the contrary, WIW is a true to life, emotional depiction of the
trauma faced by a torn personality living abroad who still has his
heart caught somewhere in his mother land. It has some interesting
characters like that of a Sufi Saint, a young wandering boy, a 'trying
to be honest' relative who speaks broken English and many more. The
director, Andy De Emmony beautifully captures the emotional distress of
four of his characters in particular. Om Puri, who still can't make up
his mind and always feels confused between his two families living in
different countries following extremely diverse traditions. Ila Arun,
his first wife, who is unwillingly living her life in a Pakistani
Village still waiting for her husband to return. Linda Bassett, his
second wife who is a loving British national and a very understanding,
caring women willing to empathize with Ila and her helpless situation.
And Aqid Khan, the youngest son of Om-Linda, who gracefully tries to
study his father's country and its tradition but at the end has to
return for his own future.

The film becomes a watchable effort mainly because of the splendid
performances by these four actors. Especially watch out for the highly
sensitive and impactful portrayal of an aging lady by Ila Arun who has
undoubtedly given one of career best performances in the movie. Just
look for a particular scene where both Ila and Linda are together on
the screen and Ila gives her consent for her husband's return to
England.

Along with its expressive cast, WIW has a great ethnic soundtrack with
few fabulous tracks by Sai Zahoor (famous for his Coke Studio songs),
who also makes a cameo in the film. Thankfully the Music CD of the film
also has the Coke Studio versions of his songs which were earlier not
available in the market. The background score, which also features in
its CD, brilliantly gels with the village sequences shown on the screen
and cinematography rightly captures the mood of the film.

However the film does have its own drawbacks and also doesn't have a
universal appeal. It has a dropping pace and lacks the entertainment
quotient since there are not enough enjoyable or comic sequences in the
film as expected. So the viewers who are not willing to watch some
meaningful cinema may get bored with its off-beat kind of subject and
treatment.

But still, it's a different kind of experience, moving a step ahead
from its first part. And hence I would like to rate it as a better
sequel since it is able to deal with the emotional outbursts of its
characters in an impressive way.
<|_=00=_|>
WEST IS WEST, directed by ANDY DE EMMONY continues on from the 1999 hit
film East is East (which was set in 1971).

It is now 1976, in Salford, Manchester, England, and remaining members
of the Khan family soldier on through their in-house, on-going struggle
of the elder family members tradition Pakistani values and beliefs vs.
the youngsters who were born in Britain and have an avid acceptance
into the British culture  

In the midst of this turmoil is the story of Sajid the youngest of the
children who is now a teenager and is enduring some serious bullying at
school  

Many of the original cast from East is East make a welcome return
including OM PURI as George Khan, LINDA BASSETT as Ella, JIMI MISTRY,
as Tariq, LESLEY NICOL as Auntie Annie, and EMIL MARWA as Maneer and
the film introduces a new face to the ongoing Khan family story AQIB
KHAN as Sajid Khan.

George Khan is still very much acting as the family dictator 
enforcing his beliefs upon his family  much to their disdain  it is
especially bad for Sajid and events soon come to a head, and George
believes it would benefit him to take a trip to Pakistan to instill
some much needed cultural discipline  in fact most of the film is set
in rural Pakistan  

Sajid, as expected, is uncomfortable and feels very much out of place
in Pakistan  and has much difficulty in fitting in  the surprise
however comes in the dramatic change that comes over George when he
sees Mrs Khan No 1 (played very convincingly by ILA ARUN) and family in
the Punjab, these are the wife and daughters he had abandoned 30 years
earlier when he left to go to England. We soon discover that it is
actually George who is most changed by the visit.

Pretty soon, George decides to make up for some of his many, many
shortcomings and decides to build a house and re-work the land  Sajid
finally starts to bond with some friends  

The pace of the film slows a little at this point  but only for a
short while that is, until the ominous arrival from England of Ella
Khan (Mrs Khan No 2), along with the hilarious Auntie Annie who swiftly
follow to sort out the mess George has created  both past and present 

There is an especially good scene between the two Mrs. Khans (past and
present)  who have a very moving dialogue (one only speaking Punjhabi,
the other only English)  but all that needs to be said is expressed
with emotion and body language  it is superbly acted, and to me  it's
the best moment in the film 

I found WEST TO WEST to be an enjoyable, moving sequel  and recommend
it highly  especially likable to those that enjoyed EAST is EAST.

WEST IS WEST is 102mins long, is a 15 certificate and will be on
general release from Friday 25th February 2011
<|_=00=_|>
The best thing about this movie is the jewel-like character development
of each participant. The humour is great and does not deteriorate into
slapstick like similar movies. Unlike some reviewers, I found this
funny, touching, believable and authentic.

Aqib Khan is rebellious and defiant for legitimate reason. His father
has gone through life selfishly, always calling his sons 'little
bastards'. His transformation is sweet but not syrupy.

Om Puri does a great job; this script allows him to be more serious
than other roles he has played.

Linda Bassett, as always, gives a stellar performance. The Nana
Mouskouri look-alike (can't find her name) is priceless.

This is a movie that flows well, with no long boring sequences or crazy
events. It relies on good writing, acting, photography and direction,
as all great movies should.
<|_=00=_|>
*Note: I did not see the prequel East is East, but this film is
self-contained and I was perfectly able to watch it on it's own. 

Set in 1970's England, West is West is a story about a family with a
Pakistani Father and a Caucasian Mother. Aqib Khan plays Sajid, who is
a budding teenager going through a tough time in his life. He is being
bullied at school, waging war with his parents, and stealing things
while he plays hooky. In order to straighten him out Sajid's father
George played by Om Puri, takes him back to his ethnic roots in
Pakistan.

As soon as they get off the plane Sajid aggressively resists his new
surroundings. Wanting nothing more than to return back home to his
English life Sajid drags his feet hating the clothes, the people, and
especially the fact that his house is without plumbing. However, slowly
though the help of a friendship and a wise guru Sajid learns to calm
his heart and appreciate his Pakistani identity. 

The father George in tandem has issues of his own. For 20 plus years he
has lived a double life leaving behind his 1st Pakistani wife and some
children. Neglected most of their lives the only thing his Pakistani
family have received over the decades are checks in the mail and the
occasional scribblings on paper. Withered and aged George's Pakistani
wife wishes George had never returned to reignite her conflicting
feelings of obligation and resentment.

This film is as much about George as it is about Sajid but there are
also a host of other characters in this film with stories of their own.
There is George's English wife who must reconcile with her Pakistani
alternate. A task seemingly impossible when words traveling to each
other can only amount to gibberish. There is also another one of
George's sons who cannot arrange a marriage for the fear that he too
will leave his Pakistani wife just like his father. 

During the first twenty minutes of the film I got a little scared that
I'd be sitting through a 100 minutes of overhanded moments of
characters crying and yelling about how they struggle with culture
clashes. However West is West is filled with funny moments of cultural
miscommunication and touching moments of reconnection. There are plenty
of laughs and most audiences will find themselves smiling at the end of
the film. 

The acting is good and at some moments moving. The cinematography,
editing and music are all fairly well done. You won't be knocked out of
seat with laughter, but you definitely won't feel as though you've
suffered. Although a little formulaic West is West is a great film that
is able to maintain a nice balance of lightness with the serious and
depressing issue of family separation. 

Who this film is not for: -Very serious movie goers who like sharp and
determined stances on culture clashes. -People not interested in ethnic
stories of immigration.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1999, "East Is East" was a pleasurable and incisive look at the
clash of different cultures in an Anglo-Pakistani family in a Salford
set in 1971. Over a decade later comes a sequel of sorts, this film
located mainly in the Punjab part of Pakistan a few years on. Although
the director is different (Andy DeEmmony this time), the writer is the
same (Ayub Khan-Din) as are some of the lead actors, notably Om Puri
(actually from the Indian part of the Punjab), again outstanding as the
patriarch struggling to give his youngest son an appreciation of his
Pakistani culture, and Linda Bassett as his long-suffering English
wife.

It is an uneven work, with some of the characters merely caricatures
and some of the humour simply slapstick, but there are plenty of moving
scenes - above all one between the English and Pakistani wives when
neither can understand the other's language but both manage to convey
deep understanding - and the locations and soundtrack are excellent.
<|_=00=_|>
East is East was a very enjoyable movie, with a great cast and a
perfect balance between the funny and the poignant. West is West is a
more than worthy successor. I agree some of the secondary characters
were little more than caricatures and while there are some funny
moments both visually and in the script, some of the humour does for my
tastes get rather slapsticky. That said, it is a good-looking film and
has a great well-paced story complete with a well-observed look at the
cultural divide. The soundtrack appeals, the script sparkles with a
number of moving and identifiable scenes and West is West is directed
beautifully. Once again, Om Puri and Linda Bassett are outstanding in
the leads, and while a brat at first Sajid wins you over in the end.
Jimi Mistry's cameo was neat but all too brief. Overall, worthy sequel
and a very good film. 8/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
A sequel to EAST IS EAST (1999), WEST IS WEST follows the passage of
George/ Jahangir (Om Puri) as he travels with son Sajd (Aqib Khan) to
Pakistan so as to 'educate' his son. However the process of adapting to
the new culture after a life spent in Salford, Greater Manchester,
proves more difficult for George than it does for his son. Andy De
Emmony's film makes some trenchant points about the difficulties of
cultural adaptation, and how it is impossible to 'go back' to one's
home culture and expect to live life as one did before emigrating.
There are some very funny moments in this film, especially Sajd as he
gradually adjusts himself to alternative ways of life. However the
ending represents a bit of a cop-out, as George/Jahangir returns to
Britain to resume his life as a chip-shop owner with his second wife
Ella (Linda Bassett), leaving his first wife Raushana (Dhanalaxmi
Padmakumar) to fend for herself - just as he has done for most of the
previous three decades. The fact that he can re-open the chip shop -
despite having no money - seems a little hard to believe; and we wonder
how he will be able to take care of his Pakistani family in the future,
even if it means only sending them money.
<|_=00=_|>
Even if you didn't know everything points out to the previous "entry"
that was called East is east. So they thought they'd make another movie
with immigration and other problems crammed into one movie. Actually
the movie has really high ambitions trying to light even the grayest of
areas and everything that surrounds it.

Unfortunately though the ambitions might have been to high to reach.
It's not a bad movie by any means, but trying to juggle all the threads
of the story proves to be more than difficult. It does seem to stir
away from time to time instead of focusing on certain problems. Which
in itself wouldn't be a bad thing, but again it doesn't have total
control of everything that goes on, which might leave you with an
unsatisfying feeling.
<|_=00=_|>
The plot of West is West is the cinematic equivalent of a car ride  it
drives quickly (to Pakistan), runs out of petrol upon reaching its
number one destination, and then the characters refill it for the rest
of the journey. In other terms  the film picks up pace very quickly at
the start, almost as if deliberately rushing Sajid off to Pakistan.
When at Pakistan, it's about 15-20 minutes into the film and an hour
and a half remains so the whole plot (which is primarily Sajid's issue
in England that apparently will be fixed by his father's tyrannical
insistence of adapting to the environment in the Punjab) has to be
stretched over that time. That is when it begins to lack the lustre it
began with as it moves a lot slower than the time in England. Then the
characters and a subplot of the brother Maneer in an
engagement/marriage situation uplift the film mightily and the overall
result is positive.

It's a positive result but not the best. There are blemishes in the
camel coloured land. Obviously not literal ones (in the sense of
blemishes on appearances) which are visible to the naked eye because
the location choice is brilliant; Pakistan is recreated in a realistic
landscape even though it is reported that it was filmed in India. 

The faults of the film can be detected when observing the pace of the
film. One was, like stated in the second paragraph, the pace of the
plot when the family reach Pakistan. Another was Sajid. Newcomer Aqib
Khan is a great substitute for Jordan Routledge as the runt of the Khan
litter. But he is infected with a flaw that is his abrupt shifting
between scenes. For example, we first see him heavily insult the
character Zaid and mere seconds later we see him listening to his
command of following him as if they have bonded as friends
instantaneously. And the third was the editing decisions. The film
strikes a good balance between emotion and humour but it's erratic. One
 the cross cutting between Sajid and George alters between funny and
serious. Two  there's a pivotal scene where both Mrs Khan's are
involved in a conversation that turn their relations from heated to
cordial, but it's one of the best scenes in the film.

They are the main negatives of the film, as a standalone, that come
into mind. Yes, it can be classed as a standalone  it isn't necessary
to have seen East is East in order to grasp the story because the past
events aren't recapped or looked at again but having seen East is East
will enlighten the experience and an understanding of the marriage
theme and the characters from that film will be on hand. West is West
has a completely different story that arguably qualifies it as a
standalone. It's accepted as a sequel as a bonus because of some of the
recurring characters, screenwriter, and producer that were BAFTA
nominated and therefore made their names in the British film industry
for East is East and hence reprised their roles in West in West to
create something of that great standard.

West is West unfortunately isn't of the great standard set eleven years
ago but that doesn't mean it isn't an enjoyable film. Whilst East is
East is the more lively film, West is West is the one carried a lot
more sentimentally. Despite his quick mood changes, Aqib Khan is
terrific as Sajid. The classic one-liners  "Not old enough to get
married so don't ask!"  have been upgraded to ones that would just be
of a teenage kid's and are nailed by Khan such as "You can f*ck off and
all, Mowgli!" By saying that they're of a teenage kid's, expect heavy
use of swearing and not just from Sajid. The rest of the cast is
brilliant, especially Om Puri as the seriously funny (oxymoron
intended) George Khan. Unlike in East is East, his character develops
throughout the film culminating in someone who could look back and
notice a great change in himself. There is also a definite development
in Sajid as he steadily learns to adapt to the Pakistani culture. The
themes of the film are excellent. This time, it isn't just about
marriage  it also has the themes of culture. West is West tells a
story that demonstrates how we should be tolerant to the environment in
the sense that we live in a multi-cultural society. People from
different cultures live together and if not deeply, we should at least
broadly learn to appreciate our cultural differences. An underlying
theme of the film is respect  how we should respect the other cultures
and people, on the whole. The dominant reason for Sajid being sent to
Pakistan is to learn to respect his progenitor. 

Whilst it won't have the same replay value nor be as big of a
word-of-mouth hit as East is East, West is West has very enjoyable
content on offer that might not fulfil the expectations of those
willing for it to raise the bar that East is East set for future films
of the same kind, but can satisfy an audience and leave the impression
of it being a good film if not great. With a heart and sheer amusement,
it's certainly not a sequel flop.

Verdict: "The original is always better" has become a common remark in
the film industry when comparing a sequel or a remake. In this case,
that is true but as a fresh film, West is West is a delight to watch.
And because the original is always better, don't go in to see something
on par or criticise because of the inferiority. Think of the overall
film as the cinematic equivalent of a baby  it has roots but it's
something new.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite my disappointment of East Is East I was still looking forward
to watching the sequel especially since the excellent Om Puri and Linda
Bassett were returning to reprise their roles as husband and wife.
Initially I was a bit disappointed but after a second viewing it really
hit home and I really enjoyed the movie.

Om Puri was really the shining star. His backward, obstinate set in his
traditional roots character really faces his demons in this sequel,
learning some valuable lessons. Puri did a fantastic job of showing the
variety of emotions of someone in his predicament: Growing up in the
old style, adjusting to the new style in UK and then having his worlds
collide when he returns to Pakistan with his youngest son.

At first I didn't have any sympathy for Sajid, the youngest son. He was
rude and a total brat. There was not that much likable about him. But
as I started to understand the world from his eyes: the racism in UK,
that he was confused about his cultural identity and that his father
didn't make things easier by not understanding him better. I liked the
way the director showed the transformation in Sajid.

East Is East had more humorous moments than East Is East, especially
regarding Maneer's wedding prospects and it provided light hearted
moments in a movie that tackled some serious and tough themes. 

The music in the movie is fantastic and the song at the end will
definitely tug at the heartstrings. Anyone who has ever said goodbye to
a loved one, friend or family, not knowing if they'll ever see each
other again, will find some identity with the song. 

All in all this is a recommended watch, and at least twice. Once to get
a feel for the movie and then the second time to understand the
characters and their motivations. Om Puri, Linda Bassett and the
wonderful music are the very reasons to watch this hidden gem, for the
tones and themes will remain with you long after the movie has ended
and it's a very pleasant feeling.
