
Out of all the reviews I read it seems that no one enjoys a good R
rated comedy anymore. What happened to the days when everyone kept it
simple. This movie made me laugh a lot from start to end. There was a
lot of harsh language in this movie BUT! it was done very well. So many
funny parts in the movie. I did not find myself bored at anytime in
this film. I watched this movie in the hopes to enjoy myself and laugh
till my sides hurt and it did just that. One of the better R rated
profane comedies I've seen in the last few years. So many comedies have
came out rated PG-13 the last few years and many of them was just plain
dull.

If you enjoy adult humor this is a movie you will like. This movie IS
NOT for children lol.

If you do not enjoy adult humor why are you here? Don't review or even
rate it ffs go back and watch smurfs or whatever.
<|_=00=_|>
Without even seeing it, some people have bashed this film because of
it's unoriginal concept. That's true. It has been done before. You can
think of it as Freaky Friday... except with dudes and really amped up!
From the first few minutes the movie was crude and vulgar... and
absolutely hilarious! But what else is to be expected when two mega
forces in comedy come together? David Dobkin, the director of Wedding
Crashers, and Jon Lucas and Scott Moore, the writers of The Hangover...
just an awesome combination that really paid off on screen! Of course,
I can't forget to mention the incredibly funny cast that worked so well
together: Ryan Reynolds, Jason Bateman, Leslie Mann and Olivia Wilde...
even Alan Arkin is in there! The writing is funny, but the comedic
timing and performances were just so perfect and what truly made the
film hilarious! The story focuses on two childhood pals, Mitch
(Reynolds), who dropped out of high school to become an actor and is
just a promiscuous mess, and Dave (Bateman), who has worked hard all
his life to be a successful lawyer, has a wonderful family and is close
to making partner at his firm. One night, though, while going out and
catching up after being vacant from one another's lives for a brief
time, they get to talking about their lives and drunkenly wish they
could take a walk in the other's shoes, but be careful what you wish
for when you are pissing in a magic fountain... The next morning the
two awake to discover that they have switched bodies. And, although,
after freaking out they begin to explore this new freedom, they soon
learn that the escape from their normal lives isn't as glorious as they
had imagined and begin looking for a way to return to their rightful
bodies.

Despite being wildly hilarious, the film also weaves in some very
subtle moments that back up the comedy with a great heart. I recently
saw that the general view of the critics is "Skip it!" which was enough
to tell you how good the film actually is, but having, now, seen it
myself... I say you'd be crazy to miss out on it. True, it won't be
everyone's cup of tea, but for someone like me who loves a good R-rated
comedy, it's definitely worth going to. In a way, it plays out in the
way that made Knocked Up and Wedding Crashers work so well: the
outrageous and often crude comedic material overpowers to make a great
comedy, but it also has those great tender moments that balance out the
film and really carry the story.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, the body-swap comedy. You know how it starts, you know how it ends
and frankly, you know most of what's in between. To name an R-rated
buddy version of this formula "The Change-Up" is essentially serving up
a thick slice of irony, yet somehow "The Hangover" writers Jon Lucas
and Scott Moore and "Wedding Crashers" director David Dobkin manage to
change just enough to prevent predictability from drowning their film
entirely.

The film starts neck deep, however. Jason Bateman's character Dave
wakes up bright and early thanks to his newborn twins, one of which
projectile poos all over his face. Gross-out humor might be one of the
worst ways to start a modern comedy, but somehow "The Change-Up"
manages to recover thanks to a strong cast and writing that works when
it's not trying too hard to be funny.

Dave and Mitch (Ryan Reynolds) are old friends with opposite lifestyles
that predictably wish they could have what the other has. Dave has been
an achiever all through his life and never stopped to enjoy himself in
the ways of drugs and women, for example. That would be typical
bachelor Mitch's life. Mitch, on the other hand, would love for even a
modicum of success and stability. Plug in a magic fountain activated by
two different simultaneous urine streams and voila  body-swapping
comedy.

Thus begins the journey of the two friends toward the inevitable
learning not to take for granted the lives they have. To be fair, Lucas
and Moore write in some scenes that break convention. Early on, for
example, there's the scene when they try and convince Dave's wife
(Leslie Mann) that they've switched bodies by telling her to ask Dave
(in Mitch's body) a question only he would know. Seen that before,
right? Rather than she predictably believing them, things take a comic
turn when Dave reveals a very private detail about her.

When "The Change-Up" isn't forcing in Farrelly brothers-inspired
gross-out humor, it's a decent comedy. For one, the writing from a
non-jokes standpoint has surprising strength. At several moments the
film goes down some more dramatic side streets that feel natural
because the characters have just enough depth for us to care. Mann's
performance in particular helps this along  she's far from the typical
mother/wife figure in a buddy comedy.

By establishing a bit of a routine in that Mitch in Dave's body must
try and prevent Dave's law firm's merger from falling through while
also balancing a family life and Dave in Mitch's body must simply get
laid in a strange matter of ways, the story doesn't spiral out of
control. The focus stays mostly on Mitch in Dave's body as he's the
significantly less shallow character with more going on. Bateman takes
advantage, transforming himself with a terrific number of quirks, which
he's done so well in his career. On a number of occasions, however, the
way you'd expect a character to behave and how they actually behave
don't match up, which definitely hurts the ability to get caught up in
the story, but there's a logic to the sequence of events and as such,
natural jokes evolve that counteract the bad ones to some extent.

Somehow the writing manages to hit on points of sentimentality as well.
Despite the inevitability of the outcomes, the story arcs of the
characters make good use of this tired concept as they drift from
hating the change to embracing it to the realization that they truly
appreciate their own lives. Some thought definitely went into character
motivation, otherwise we'd feel nothing. Dobkin captured the same thing
in "Wedding Crashers," but the difference here is obviously the novelty
factor. As such, a film can never outrun predictability. It can be
taken advantage of as best as the talents involved possibly can, but it
always wins.

~Steven C

Visit my site at http://moviemusereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
In Atlanta, Dave Lockwood (Jason Bateman) is an efficient and dedicated
lawyer that expects to be promoted to partner of the law firm where he
has been working for ten years after a merging operation and a family
man, married with the gorgeous Jamie Lockwood (Leslie Mann) and father
of three children. His best friend is the aspirant actor Mitch Planko
(Ryan Reynolds), who is single, reckless and unemployed, and a quitter
that never concludes what he is doing.

One night, Dave and Mitch drink a lot and they go to a fountain to pee
and they both simultaneously wish to have the life of the other. On the
next morning, they wake up and discover that they had switched bodies.
They return to the square and find that the fountain has moved to an
unknown place. Therefore, Mitch needs to become responsible to save the
job and the promotion of his friend, while Dave feels how complicated
is for him to date with his sexy and gorgeous colleague Sabrina McArdle
(Olivia Wilde). Sooner they learn more about themselves and also that
the life of the other is not as good and they believe it could be.

"The Change-Up" is an entertaining film with an overworked, but always
funny storyline. I do not recall how many comedies I have seen with two
persons switching bodies, but I always laugh a lot. "The Change-up" is
no exception, especially with the hilarious Ryan Reynolds, Jason
Bateman and Leslie Mann and the gorgeous Olivia Wilde, one of the most
beautiful actresses that I have recently seen.

There are particularly two (gross) scenes that I repeated many times
since I could not stop laughing: when Dave is cleaning his baby and
trying to reach the diaper and when Mitch is in Dave's body and sees
the half-naked Jamie going to the bathroom. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Eu Queria Ter a Sua Vida" ("I Wish I Had Your Life")
<|_=00=_|>
This type of movie has just been done too many times and this time they
make it gross as to how they switch bodies. It's by peeing in a public
fountain.

So you have the married father of 3 responsible guy, Dave, whom
switches bodies with his carefree rude best friend, Mitch. So they
throw in some bad language, some boobs, and gross situations and you
have a laughing riot of a time, right? Wrong, this was gross and the
plot is just old to be funny to me. I mean, they have a baby squirting
something into his dad's mouth. Plus babies playing with knives and
electrical outlets.

FINAL VERDICT: This idea has been done too many times to bother
watching again. Skip it.
<|_=00=_|>
Thanks to the fine people at Klout.com, I was able to get to see a
rough cut of the movie "The Change-Up" starring Jason Bateman, Ryan
Reynolds, and Leslie Mann (she of Apatow fame.) Hilarious. Much MUCH
better than I expected. Of course, this is the type of film better seen
with a filled theater.

Of course it's a hard 'R' for vulgarity, nudity, and everything you
expect in a sex-themed comedy. The trailers don't shy away from that.

One always expects great comedic timing from the likes of Reynolds and
Bateman. However, in these roles they truly do something different.
Bateman gets to be the raunchy one. He finally gets to let loose.
Reynolds holds back as the straight-laced guy who's more of a thinker.

Leslie Mann was the true surprise in the film. I hope Judd Apatow
watches this "The Change-Up" and realizes one thing; THIS is how you
write for/use your wife in your films. Leslie can act! She takes the
otherwise tiresome 'wife' role and turns it into something a little
deeper.

Olivia Wilde plays the unfortunate part of 'that girl.' She's not there
to serve much purpose throughout the flick, but her story is summed up
nicely. But sweet merciful GOD does she look fantastic with very dark
hair! Anyway, it's a great flick. I suggest you go see it, you'll enjoy
it. It's not your typical "body swap" movie (ala "Freaky Friday," "Vice
Versa," "Like Father, Like Son.") plus I believe it has more heart than
any of those three.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, the cast looks good enough, and it bills itself as a comedy.
However, for some reason, Hollywood still hasn't received the message
that not EVERY person wants to hear a never-ending bombardment of foul
language. Am I a prude? Nope. But if you took out "f#@$" (rhymes with
"luck") out of the script, the movie would be maybe 15 minutes long. 

It was with great disappointment that only 40 minutes into it, we could
no longer stand to listen to it. The humor was often gross-out humor,
like the father getting feces in his mouth from changing the baby's
diaper, peeing in a public fountain, and other "high-end" stuff like
that. I found myself going fairly quickly from looking forward to the
comedy (misnamed, for sure) to being uncomfortable, to being completely
repulsed. 

The premise is cute enough, if not already overused. Two friends end up
wishing they had each other's lives, and while peeing in the fountain,
some sort of power outage occurs, and they wake up the next morning in
each other's bodies. Freaky Friday all over again, but without the
humor and without the class. The addition of the language just puts it
into a category all by itself. There's no need at all for the quantity
of it - a few times, maybe. But it is E-N-D-L-E- S-S. There are plenty
of nude scenes in there too, since one friend is supposedly an actor in
the porn industry. I am sure you can grasp all the fun they have with
that one. 

If you are 15 and find offensive language really funny, or you just
have almost no vocabulary and don't realize there are lots of other
words out there, then you might like this movie. If, however, you are
an adult and have an IQ over 70, then you'll want to keep on looking.
It isn't funny, despite a decent cast. It's just obnoxious and hard to
listen to. As I type this, I have the sound off with closed caption,
which unfortunately still shows the real dialog - it never ends. There
are some scenes that are just trashy, and "R" is definitely the correct
rating for this one. The cast should be ashamed of this one, and want
it removed from their resume.

Do yourself and your ears a favor and don't bother. Just hit your thumb
with a hammer, let it fly, and you'll have had just as entertaining a
time as this movie offers, and neither the foul language nor the pain
will last nearly as long.
<|_=00=_|>
Body-swapping comedies are so 80s. But with The Change-Up, David
Dobkin, director of the bloke hit The Wedding Crashers, puts a ribald
spin to the genre. Those who can't stand scatological jokes and
profanity ought to steer clear. Unless you're a Judd Apatow fan.
Although in this movie, you should expect much less emotional
poignancy.

It is refreshing to see Jason Bateman and Ryan Reynolds take on
atypical roles. As the overachieving lawyer Dave with a stiff upper
lip, Bateman steps into those loafers comfortably. Often type-casted as
the jokester, he is now the model family man who works so hard till his
wife, Jamie, feels neglected. On the other hand, Reynolds who mostly
comes across as serious or amiable, gets to be the mildly offensive,
profanity-spewing lothario, Mitch.

Dave and Mitch have diametrically-opposed characters and they play off
each other very well. A hilarious encounter with a Roman statue by a
fountain in the park, while they take a leak, allows them to magically
swap bodies. Seeing them switch bodies to play opposite personalities
and scramble (amusingly) to adapt to their new lives is central to the
enjoyment of the movie. And through living each other's lives, they
learn to improve themselves.

Dave enjoys independence and freedom from his stifling marriage, while
in Mitch's body. At same time, getting jolted and turned off by Mitch's
odd sexual partner, lewd profession and bizarre bedhopping antics.
Meanwhile, Mitch gets to clean up his bawdiness and straighten up his
waywardness while taking on the responsibilities of married life's
daily grind, which includes changing the soiled diapers of two impish
toddlers.

While the movie adopts the predictable narrative of flawed characters
being transformed for the better, the journey is fun and occasionally
goes ape. So check your brains at the cinema door and just go with the
absurdism.
<|_=00=_|>
Two irresponsible yuppies get plastered one evening in a bar. While
taking a lengthy urination into a public fountain, the cement goddess
of the fountain decides to change their brains and bodies.

My first impression of this movie was that the acting was pathetically
poor. After watching further it occurred to me that the storyline is so
absurd that no actor could possibly get a grip on it. The movie
attempts make up for the stupid acting and storyline with massive
pornography and foul language. I am no prude. I enjoy some good raunchy
humor as much as anyone, but after about 45 minutes of this movie I was
grossed out. I think the final straw was when Ryan repeatedly dropped F
bombs on the cute little 6 year old girl in the car. My standards of
decency may be pretty loose, but this was too much for me. I very
rarely fail to finish a movie, but I flushed this piece of excrement,
and saved 30 minutes of torture. I found very little humor in this
movie.

I can't imagine what kind of parents would allow their child to be
subjected to such filth in making a movie. People are arrested for
having pornographic conversations on the internet with underage
children, but here it is on public display.

This movie is a despicable waste of time. I am astonished that there
are favorable reviews on it (or that it was ever produced in the first
place).
<|_=00=_|>
'THE CHANGE-UP': Three Stars (Out of Five)

It's not the 80's anymore and Hollywood is still making body changing
movies! If you had to make one though who better to cast in it than
Ryan Reynolds and Jason Bateman (two of my favorite actors)?! A movie
where Reynolds is an unemployed slacker pothead and Bateman is a work
obsessed family man who switch bodies actually doesn't sound that bad.
It is pretty bad still though for the first half of it's running
length. Despite having two of the best funny men in the business, most
of the jokes fall a little flat for almost all of the film's setup
(Reynolds and Bateman do manage to squeeze some laughs out of the
mostly dull material though). Then when the film gets to the cheesy
stuff, the heart of the film and the real character development, it
actually starts to work! The directing gets a little better, the
performances start to shine through and the writing begins to polish
itself out. It takes half a film to get there but 'THE CHANGE-UP' is
mostly worth the effort.

The film is directed by David Dobkin (who also directed the popular
buddy films 'WEDDING CRASHERS' and 'SHANGHAI KNIGHTS'). It's written by
Jon Lucas and Scott Moore (part of the team behind 'THE HANGOVER'). All
of the ingredients are there for the perfect juvenile male bonding
adventure but I think the 'body switching' formula kind of dooms the
film a little from the start (at least in the start). It revolves
around two best friends, Mitch (Reynolds) and Dave (Bateman), who have
grown apart due to their lives taking vastly different paths. Both men
envy the other though and when they wish for each other's lives while
pissing in a fountain one night their wishes come true. Leslie Mann
(otherwise known as Mrs. Apatow) and Olivia Wilde co-star as the men's
two love interests, one is Dave's wife and the other is his co-worker.
Things of course get very complicated and trouble ensues (which then of
course leads to emotional evolvement and surprisingly strong character
growth).

The film really does make you care for it's two lead characters and
watching their emotional growth does really work. That's thanks in part
to the directing and somewhat well written screenplay but more so
Reynold's and Bateman's performances (I think). They've proved that
they not only have a knack for comedic timing but also dramatic chops
when given the right material as well. With this film when the drama
kicks in the comedy also picks up and flows better. At first the jokes
are pretty standard and overused (they're also extremely crude and
disturbing) but as the characters start to get more interesting and
involving the jokes get funnier and more meaningful as well. If you're
a Ryan Reynolds or Jason Bateman fan (or a fan of body switching
movies) you'll almost certainly enjoy this film at least some what,
despite it's rocky take off.

Watch our review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jXu8bs0LI9A
