
I am 24 year old fairly macho male,but I love animated movies. Me and
my wife went and saw this movie on date night and hands down best
Christmas movie of all times. It was full of wonderment,amazement and
magic.I teared up at least 4 different times during the movie. It made
me feel like a kid again it made me believe. I found myself gasping and
laughing at the same parts as the the 3 year old little girl sitting 3
seats away was and any movie that can do that is worth seeing. best
holiday movie of all times.

I am the wife :) and I found the movie to be equally moving and evoked
emotions about the holidays and that I hadn't felt since I was a child.
This may seem like a simple children's movie, but it is so much more
than that if you really allow yourself to feel the characters. :) I
hope you and your family enjoy the movie as much as we did!
<|_=00=_|>
I thought I was probably in a period of time where it would be
difficult to sit back and enjoy what is an animated film aimed squarely
at kids, but I was indeed surprised by how Rise of the Guardians, based
upon The Guardians of Childhood series created by William Joyce,
actually encapsulated all the good stuff, from quality of animation,
voice casting and to characterization that was pretty basic but good
fun. There are many in the same class of late that tried to be too
intellectual, but by keeping things simpler, and never forgetting the
fun element, Rise of the Guardians stand out from the pack, and dare I
say one of the most enjoyable animated movies of the year.

This is the story of a new Guardian, Jack Frost (voiced by Chris Pine),
who's about to join the ranks of other luminaries such as Santa Claus
(Alec Baldwin), The Tooth Fairy (Isla Fisher), Easter Bunny (Hugh
Jackman) and very silent Mr Sandman, all of whom thrive in today's
world being the beacon of hope, and everything good, to all the little
children of the world. Chosen by The Man in the Moon, the Guardians and
the children form a very symbiotic relationship, that the chosen few
are there to safeguard the well being of the young, while the latter
fuel the powers of the Guardians through sheer belief in their
existence. Lose one, and you lose the other side quite quickly.

The narrative develops at breakneck pace, with introduction to the
Guardians, their abilities, and the threat from arch enemy Pitch Black
(Jude Law) being the boogeyman personified, thriving on fear and
nightmares, and hell bent on snuffing out hope and joy amongst the
children. There's a running theme of being alone, and forgotten, that
pops up every now and then, being the common thread between antagonist,
and the new kid on the block, who is confused as to who he is, and what
his destiny lies ahead. It's somewhat of a zero to hero story, about
finding one's purpose and calling in life, and the making of sacrifices
to get there. Wholesome themes somewhat, for young ones to be able to
sit through and enjoy.

We would already be very familiar with the many main characters such as
Santa Claus, Tooth Fairy, Sandman and Easter Bunny, but what Rise of
the Guardians managed to do, is to introduce a little spin of fresh air
into these characters, making them unique yet retaining many of their
iconic traits that make them who they are. This is something I'd really
liked, and had kept me engaged, eagerly waiting for yet another
surprise to pop up now and then. Santa Claus complete with tattoos,
swords and a thick Russian accent? The Tooth Fairy who is part
hummingbird? The Easter Bunny as Australian and with something kept up
the sleeve by the story tellers for the final act, and how about The
Sandman who's a lot more powerful than he looks? And they offer a lot
more in terms of abilities, cause and what they bring to the table,
limited only by the powers of the filmmakers' imagination.

It's preaching fun, and never to lose sight of having a little fun in
life, and the movie walked the talk by filling itself with plenty of
side gags, contributed by the many supporting acts each established
Guardian came with, such as Santa's tiny elves, and Tooth Fairy's
lovelorn fairies who swoon at the presence of Jack Frost, for his
perfect pearly whites of course. You'll never look at Santa's lodge and
elves in the same way ever again, nor will you at the Tooth Fairy's and
Easter Bunny's operations. These unique perspectives, seen and told
through the eyes of the protagonist Jack Frost, makes it a journey that
we're emotionally vested into from the start, right until the end, and
to me they did not disappoint a bit.

While I hadn't watched this in 3D or IMAX versions, there are enough
set action pieces that tried to exploit these formats, which I suppose
either format would have enveloped the viewer and provided a more vivid
experience, especially with characters being made to pursue and battle
each other in the air, or the numerous extravaganza moments where the
prowess of the characters will wow. The quality of animation is superb
and is the score contributed by Alexandre Desplat, and again, the
simple tale, its treatment and development, are refreshing in not
biting off more than it can chew.

Director Peter Ramsey has now launched his career with a very solid
delivery of a film for children, and balanced this appeal for the
adults as well. I'm already all for a sequel should one be created, but
as a standalone, this one is definitely for keeps. Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
Here's a fresh look at old tradition: a tatted-up Russian St. Nick and
an Australian kangaroo-looking Easter Bunny. Rise of the Guardians is
based on an original children's book series by William Joyce, who
produced the film along with Guillermo Del Toro. The books were
inspired by the author's 6-year-old daughter when she asked him if
Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny knew each other.

Admittedly I was skeptical going in, but the chemistry of personalities
works wonderfully. It creates an original formula that goes against
certain expectations. Perhaps one improvement in potential sequels
would be to focus more centrally on Santa (or "Nicholas St. North"),
but Jack Frost's story is incredibly touching and I found it clever how
it parallels the antagonist's motives. The film is slow to start but
picks up at a fast pace with non-stop action. By the end, the entire
movie theater was in applause.

Rise of the Guardians is a cute, adventurous, and heartwarming family
film that focuses on hanging on to the best thing about childhood:
belief.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is magical and utterly charming. In this film DreamWorks did
it all exactly right. Every voice is precisely as it should be.
Perfection! Chris Pine, Jude Law, Hugh Jackman, too many to list if
you didn't know that was Alec Baldwin doing the Russian accent for
Santa, you would never guess it. The characters, all of them, are
endearing, totally engaging. Sad moments, glad moments, hilarious
moments. I haven't laughed this much in an animated movie since.well,
never, actually. As I said, this one is destined to become a classic. A
wonderful family movie and best of all it doesn't just appeal to the
children, adults will love it too. Every adult in the audience,while I
was there, seemed as captivated as the kids. And how many movies do you
go to these days where, at the end, people applaud? They did for this
one. And rightly so. I know I came out of that theater wishing I could
somehow have my own Little Baby Tooth...and the friend I was with
wished even more that she could have one of the Feisty Elves. You'll
totally understand what I mean after you see this delightful movie.
Don't miss this one!
<|_=00=_|>
Before the end of the thanksgiving weekend I had with my cousins, I
went with my brother to see this particularly in 3D, hoping that it
would exceed my expectations as the trailer had promised. Later, after
seeing the movie, I couldn't believe that my expectations were raised
by not only how interesting it look, but how beautiful it looked. So,
are there any flaws? Well, let's just say that there is one for it does
drag a bit on the middle, but there isn't anything else to fault this
epic adventure with.

Some people may find the story of this movie predictable due to it's
good vs evil concept, but for me, I don't think it was that bad. It had
it's heart in the right place and has some nice messaging about using
your courage and it did got me shedding some tears since it reminded me
what it's like to be a child. The dialog is also witty and the script
is refreshing and funny. What I also like about the story is how it
focused on Jack Frost's origins and how he came to be. I would've like
to see the origins on some of the other childhood icons like Santa
Claus, the Easter Bunny, the Sandman, and the Tooth Fairy, but I think
that Dreamworks Animation is saving those for the sequels if they ever
make them. The music from Alexandre Desplat is beautiful, tear-jerking,
and whimsical and it's orchestra is well done which makes it one of his
best music in a feature length film.

There are some other redeeming aspects of the movie. First, there's the
characters which are likable in every way. Jack Frost is a charming
lead, Nicholas St. North (or Santa Claus) is a bada** character with
his Russian accent and has a sleigh machine, the Sandman is silent, but
that's what makes him more interesting and his comedic moments is
funny, the Tooth Fairy (or Toothiana) is a beautiful female character
and the way she explains her ways of getting all of the children's
tooth is well thought out, and Bunnymund, the easter bunny, is a great
fighter and by the far the most hilarious character that most people
would adore. Pitch, however, steals the show and is a great villain
thanks to Jude Law's menacing voice-work. In fact, the voice acting for
the character is great especially Alec Baldwin who was a great surprise
being here. The fight sequences and the chase scenes are not only
amazing, but exhilarating, but the strongest aspect goes to the
animation.

It's character animation is well inspired and creative, but what stands
out the most about the animation is it's visuals. The places are
amazing in scope including the North Pole, the Toothfairy's land,
Pitch's evil lair, the Easter Bunny's home with the eggs being the
highlight and more. Looks like Dreamworks Animation never fails to
amuse me with their beautiful animation.

Overall, Rise of the Guardians is by no means a classic and with all of
my heart, this deserves some recommendation to those who haven't seen
it yet. Go watch it! It's that good just like Disney's Wreck-It Ralph.
<|_=00=_|>
Rise of the Guardians is probably one of the best movies I've seen in a
while, besides seeing Wreck It Ralph last weekend (also a must see
movie for a blast-to-the-past) I loved this movie, cried during most of
Jack's story, I know the feeling of being alone and feeling like I'm
invisible/under appreciated/ignored/looked down upon. I would defiantly
recommend it to any age, it gives you a total blast to the past of
being a kid by bringing together all of the childhood hopes and dreams
you had before they were crushed. The animations was excellent, the
storyline was so sweet, and I can not wait to hear if there is going to
be a second movie or not.
<|_=00=_|>
Sean McQuillan www.thatsmye.com 

Dreamworks animation has not quite had the success rate of Pixar, but
if Rise of the Guardians is any example of where they're heading,
they're on a good path. RotG is like a League of Extraordinary
Gentlemen of children's fables that band together to protect the
children of the world from fear itself. Led by Santa Claus, the
Guardians include the Tooth Fairy, The Easter Bunny, and the Sandman.
An old evil that thrives on the fear of children is returning, and the
powers that be have chosen a new guardian to rise to the occasion, Jack
Frost. Can Frost rise to legendary status of his peers? Will he be able
to dispel fear and bring joy to the children? It's an amazing ride
through fantastic worlds to find out.

The design of the characters really drew me into this one, when I first
saw the trailer. Santa is an enormous, tattooed, urshanka wearing,
sword wielding, commander of Yetis. Tooth Fairy is designed after a
beautiful humming bird, as are her fairy minions. The villain has a
sleek design with piercing eyes. I was not disappointed. This movie is
beautiful. The set pieces are brilliant and epic, yet subtle. You can
see the influence of Pan's Laberynth Director, Gillermo Del Torro, who
was an executive producer here. The animation is great, and makes real
good use of the 3D, which I fully admit I normally dislike.

The voice casting is superb, Chris Pine holds his own as Jack Frost,
while Alec Balwin is almost unrecognizable as North (Santa). The
biggest highlight for me is Jude Law as the villain. You can hear a
snippet of him in the trailer. The children in the room have young
voice actors, but are all greats.

The review might seem a little unbalanced, but I'm really struggling to
come up with any big flaws. It is a great film for children and adults
alike. Some people say it might be too scary for kids, but at its core
the movie is about overcoming fear. It is an epic romp. It's not really
a Christmas movie, as much as a winter movie. Go see it! Here's a
trailer and character posters to hold you off until it's released.
<|_=00=_|>
As a big animation fanatic, I was very keen to see Rise of the
Guardians as it did look like an very interesting film. I have to say
that it was high expectations lived up to. The best animated movie of
the year? Not sure, ParaNorman and Frankenweenie were a little
better(can't wait for Wreck-It Ralph), but I do think it is in the
better end of the movies of the overall year so far. Was there anything
that could have been done better? Well, I did think the movie drags a
little bit in the middle. However, there is very little to fault
anywhere else. The animation was amazing, the characters were
well-modelled and the colours and landscapes were really beautifully
realised . Alexandre Desplat's music score has the right amount of
sparkling adventure and whimsical fantasy. The writing is thoughtful
and well-balanced, not coming across as too childish for adults or too
confusingly sophisticated for kids. The visual puns were marvellous,
Pitch's night-mares(very spooky) and Bunny's egg-plants were the
highlights. The story was a winner too, some may find it
predictable(the good vs. evil concept is not necessarily new territory)
and dull, I didn't think so at all, some of the middle is not as
securely paced as the rest but the chase action and battle were
exhilarating, it was fun and it does have a refreshing holiday feel as
well as a meaningful message. The characters have distinct
personalities and have a definite charm to them, hard to decide who was
my favourite. The voice acting was terrific, nobody was bad, Jude Law
is suave and sinister and Hugh Jackman is very funny. But Alec Baldwin
was a huge surprise, partly because he was totally unrecognisable. All
in all, a great animated movie that completely lived up to my
expectations. 9/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
The first major family flick of the holidays, this
Avengers-for-children boasts the most epic line-up of characters you're
likely to see this Summer: Santa (Alec Baldwin), Easter Bunny (Hugh
Jackman), Tooth Fairy (Isla Fisher), Jack Frost (Chris Pine) and the
dream-making Sandman going up against fear himself, Pitch Black (Jude
Law). It's a neat concept to begin with, but Dreamworks amps up the fun
by contorting our preconceptions of these icons  especially the Easter
Bunny, here played as an ocker warrior  and delivering the goods in
humour, emotion and action. It goes a moralistic touch too far on
occasion, and the story is certainly predictable, but the overwhelming
sense of giddy excitement running through the movie's veins outweighs
any plot contrivances or missteps that occur. A sweet start to the
festive season for kids of all ages  including those in adulthood.
<|_=00=_|>
Rise of the Guardians has a lovely concept about these imaginary
childhood legends. It tells a fascinating new mythology about them. It
sets out to be highly imaginative and thoroughly heartfelt. With these
people making this film, there is no surprise that they succeeded to
execute those ambitions. Though, the storytelling is a bit messy with
endless action set pieces. Despite of those flaws, it's still
whimsically magical and heartwarming.

The story centers a childhood guardian, Jack Frost. Among the
guardians, he's the least known and believed by the children. It's
pretty interesting since most of us only know very little about him, we
intend to intrigue about his story. When it goes to the famous legends,
it gets bigger and quicker with plenty of humor. The film is also an
action movie. The action scenes are amazingly done and eye candy, but
they somehow get excessive causing a bit mess to the storyline. It's
charming when they go to their relationship with the children, and it's
appealing when it explores to their worlds.

The characters are wonderful enough. The voice performances are great.
Chris Pine's performance is charming enough to keep Jack Frost pretty
endearing. Alec Baldwin brings plenty of joy to his character. Hugh
Jackman uses his Australian accent to the Easter Bunny which really
fits to the character. The rest are expectedly delightful.

The visuals are undeniably astonishing. Every scene of the film is
spectacular and beautiful to look at, making the experience very
magical. The 3D enhances the experience more or less. The character
designs are inspired. I bet many would love the Sandman's that looks so
lovable. And the music score adds sweetness to the sequences.

Rise of the Guardians is a little bit disappointing but also a bit
satisfying. It has the heart in a right amount but only the half of the
film. The rest is all action and having fun, but it's not a bad thing.
They just could have moderated the craziness and get a bit of focus to
the storyline. The film is still worth watching. It can be a classic if
it has a better storytelling but if you don't care then that won't be a
problem. Overall, it's filled with excitement and beautiful animation.
Rise of the Guardians can be considered one of the great films of the
year.
