
I am a big fan in general of "WhoDunnit" movies, and I was keen to see
what 'The Raven' had in store. I went in assuming that it would be like
any other 'Jack the Ripper'/19th century killer movie and that it would
predictable. I was right in my assessment, but inspite of these
clich√©'s the Raven was a brilliant film mainly because of the
following:

- The movie was beautifully shot. It has a very 'sleepy hollow' feeling
throughout. - The use of Poe's work and the poetic climax was
excellent. I enjoyed this bit a lot as it left me with things to think
about after watching the film, something which is testimony to the fact
that the film made an impact. - Great character development of John
Cusack/Poe. Made for a dark, mysterious man with a twisted view of the
world. Exciting. - There were many tense moments, great chases and
small pieces of puzzle solving( like in console games) making for small
mysteries within one large mystery, thus keeping you engrossed all the
way.

To summarise, the Raven was riotous ride through Victorian era type
settings, keeps you on the egde of your seat, the mini puzzles keep you
busy and the plot and character development( Poe) was excellent,
Definitely worth a watch and an 8 out of ten for me.

P.S. The film has gore so if you can't stand that, don't watch it. It's
not a Hostel or a SAW, but there is gore and blood.
<|_=00=_|>
Do not listen to the negative reviews because this movie is brilliant.
I think the main problem is that people maybe went into this movie
expecting a horror movie.

The portrayal of Poe is absolutely fantastic, John Cusack did a
fantastic job he is a great actor and this one has to be my favourite
role that he has played.

The movie has a great pace to it. Your at the edge of your seat the
entire time, the thing is though if you haven't read any Edger Allan
Poe stories you might have a hard time understanding it, but it doesn't
matter weather you have read them or not because the movie is
absolutely brilliant. It has its intense moments but honestly you can't
take your eyes off the screen it keeps you guessing whats going to
happen next.

Don't listen to the negative reviews, this movie is a must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
On October 3, 1849 Edgar Allan Poe was found wandering the streets of
Baltimore, delirious, calling out the name Reynolds. There have been
lots of theories as to what Poe died of, from tuberculosis, rabies or
to a drunken bender. "The Raven" puts forth a more romantic theory and
a detective story for the man who invented the modern detective novel.

"The Raven" as a movie demonstrates that you can make a movie that
bridges the biographical facts of Poe's life and its own artistic
vision and still make an interesting movie. The movie is driven by the
premise, a serial killer starts a series of killings in Baltimore that
emulate some of the more gruesome murders in Poe's stories. When the
first murder is done inside a locked room, police detective Fields
(Luke Evans) recognizes it as the setting of an Edgar Allan Poe story.
Fields brings in Poe (John Cusack) at first as suspect, but when
another murder occurs Poe quickly becomes the first criminal profiler
and consultant. Poe helps Fields both in what kind of mind the killer
may have and of course in the details from his stories. The killer
kidnaps Poe's girlfriend Emily (Alice Eve) with the killer promising
clues as to Emily's whereabouts with each new murder he commits.

The filmmakers, director James McTeigue and writers Ben Livingstone and
Hannah Shakespeare don't try to recast Poe's character as a superhero
or give the movie Poe attributes that the real Poe didn't or couldn't
possess. As mentioned before, the filmmakers stick fairly accurately to
the known elements of Poe's last few days, although there are some
artistic liberties taken, and they still present an entertaining movie
with a few twists and turns as to who the murderer is.

Cusack is spot on as Poe from his look, thin with a black mustache and
goatee, to (more importantly) Poe's character. Poe was a writer who had
the ultimate confidence in his own abilities as a writer and was
dismissive of his contemporaries, especially if they were more
successful. Cusack is supported by a cast that hits every note right.

If you think a movie about Edgar Allan Poe won't have enough action for
you, this is a movie for you. If you're more literary minded and think
this movie will have too many inaccuracies or violate Poe's character
or will throw in too much action, you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, not much to say about this movie really. It's not bad but it's
definitely nothing memorable or impressive to watch either. It's all
being good and entertaining enough to keep watching but by the end of
it you won't feel like you got an awful lot out of the movie.

I think that the biggest problem of the movie is that it's being a very
straightforward mystery/thriller, which at the same time also makes it
a very standard and formulaic one. Normally I would complain when a
movie has too many distractions in it but in this case it most likely
wouldn't had harmed this movie. Some more character, or some more
different story lines would had perhaps made this movie a more
interesting one.

The movie now becomes a bit tiresome after a while. There is not enough
variation and the movie just never really manages to become a tense
one, with any of its mystery or thriller elements. Who knows, maybe it
also was the movie its low budget that prevented it from ever making a
real impact and the reason why the movie seems to be lacking the right
required type of atmosphere.

A problem of the movie also lies with its main character. No, I'm not
saying that John Cusack is a poor actor in this movie but his character
simply isn't being a good or interesting enough. There was so much they
could had done, after all he plays Edgar Allan Poe in this movie but it
feels as if the film-makers were holding back with just about
everything and decided to play things safe, making this a very standard
and therefore also predictable little movie.

No it's not a horrible movie to watch but just a movie that offers far
too little to its viewers.

6/10 

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
A merging of the life of Edgar Allan Poe, his poetry, the crimes of his
stories and a woven, fictional tale of all of the above is "The Raven".
In the opening minute, I was ready to knock the film down for missing
some of the significant details of The Murders in the Rue Morgue.
Except this film isn't trying to faithfully recreate anything, you just
have to get interested in a Poe-based detective story.

Yes, it is fairly gruesome. Perhaps more blood and violence than you
would typically find in a Poe story, but as the newspaper editor
insisted, that's what the people want. That's likely true, but what I
like about Edgar Allan Poe's writing is the intelligence, prose and
soulfulness that would be hiding amongst all the murderers and dead
bodies. Most stories can be deduced to be about something entirely
other than just the crimes. That wasn't really the case here, but
that's hardly the fault of the film as they are different mediums.

They might not have gotten the underlying meaning, but they did the get
the true nature of Poe accurate. His gloomy, brooding obsession with
death, women and alcohol. I've always been convinced of John Cusack's
aptitude for this role, and contrary to popular belief, he was very
good. He was more subdued than most people were probably expecting. No
action stunts and no over-the-top dramatics, he just showed how words
and his propensity for gin would haunt him. He delivered only a few
quick lines of wit, and I'm assuming that was the issue people had.
From all that I have read from people wanting Robert Downey, Jr in this
role, I'm assuming they have confused the fictional character of
Sherlock Holmes with the real-life writer of Poe. All that I can say to
that is thank God Cusack never got confused.

Sir Arthur Conan Doyle has credited Poe as inspiration for the creation
of his famous detective. I'm afraid the filmmakers have tried to re-pay
the favour and took some action cues from the recent movies. Watching
bullets fly through the air really takes away from the few things they
did so well.

"The Raven" is a good watch for Poe fans with references to many of his
stories and poems and they found great moments to include some of his
illustrious and lasting lines. Although I would have liked it more if
the movie was just a dramatic recreation of his famous poem, at least
Cusack did offer a reading of The Raven which probably mirrored that of
Poe himself.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is story set during the last few days in the life of Edgar
Allen Poe. Poe (John Cusack) is a penniless drunk (with a pet raccoon
for some reason), depending on money he gets from The Baltimore Times
for writing acerbic reviews of other writers' work to keep him in the
booze. Emily (Alice Eve) the woman he loves is difficult to reach
because her father Colonel Hamilton (Brendan Gleeson) has a very
understandable dislike of Poe so they have sneak around behind his
back.

The police are investigating two brutal murders of a mother and her 12-
year-old daughter in a locked room. Detective Emmett Fields (Luke
Evans) notices the parallels between these murders and the Poe story
Murders in the Rue Morgue so he sends a squad of policemen out to bring
Poe in for questioning. Although Fields doesn't believe Poe is
responsible for the murders he is definitely connected to them.

There's a second murder this time based on the story The Pit and The
Pendulum and this is a pretty gory killing as you can imagine if you
are aware of the story (if you are not I'll just say the pendulum has
an enormous blade on the end of it). The victim this time is a writer
at The Baltimore Times who wrote highly negative reviews of Poe's
stories. A crimson mask found on body is a message from the killer to
Poe and the police about where he will strike next. The killer is
playing a game with them and when the life of his beloved Emily is
threatened Poe is forced to play the killer's game.

This was an entertaining mystery thriller and I did like the inclusion
of Poe's stories in this film. The setting felt authentic enough and
there was no anachronistic steam punk stuff going on like so many other
alternative history stories. The cast are reasonable enough, especially
Brendan Gleeson, but they don't really get too much development. I
don't have any doubt that Cusack's performance bore very little
resemblance to the real Edgar Allen Poe but it was fun and over the top
and similar to Robert Downey Juniors's take on Sherlock Holmes. Anyone
expecting dark melancholia and madness will probably not like this film
but for people only passingly familiar with Poe it is a mystery
thriller romp with a pulpy comic book feel.

Rating 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
If only Vincent Price were still alive. Perhaps the legendary Price,
himself a fan of Edgar Allan Poe, and who starred in many adaptations
of Poe's stories, could have brought the necessary combination of grand
passion, inner turmoil, and sly wit to The Raven that it needed to
succeed. But Price is of course long gone, and so we must make do with
John Cusack. And it just doesn't work.

The Raven is based upon a great premise: in 19th-century Baltimore, a
sadistic killer is on the loose, his murders based on the stories of
the infamous poet and purveyor of the macabre, Edgar Allan Poe. Poe,
penniless and drunk most of the time, is at first a suspect in the
murders, but Detective Fields (Luke Evans) realizes that however
otherwise dissolute Poe may be, he is not a murderer, and so enlists
the writer's aid in cracking the case. The stakes are raised, however,
when Poe's own fianc√©, Emily (Alice Eve) is kidnapped. Can Fields and
Poe solve the mystery of the murderer's identity in time to save
Emily's life, or will Poe be undone by the very fruits of his own
grisly imagination? Again, it's a great premise. Poe is one of the
greatest horror writers of all time, and a thriller based upon his
lurid tales of madness and death has a lot of potential. Sadly, The
Raven¬ówhich takes its title from perhaps Poe's most famous poem¬ónever
realizes its lofty ambitions. The aforementioned John Cusack is the
first problem the film is saddled with, for while Cusack is a capable
actor the complexities of playing the troubled, rather enigmatic Edgar
Allan Poe prove totally beyond him. Cusack never makes his version of
Poe likable, or even interesting, and in many ways Evans's much more
ably realized Detective Fields is the real star of the show. Alice
Eve's lovely and charming performance as Emily goes for naught, as her
character doesn't have enough to do and is so underwritten that she
lacks any real personality.

The Raven does look good, and there are many appealing shots of
fog-shrouded streets and dark forests. But the atmosphere is wasted,
and the elements of Poe's stories which make it into the script are
misused. Familiar Poe stories like The Pit and the Pendulum and The
Murders in the Rue Morgue are used for a few gory set pieces that are
merely insults to the original tales which inspire them. Suspense is
diluted by the inability of the director, John McTeigue, to decide what
kind of movie he really wants to make: a mystery? A thriller? A
horror-comedy? The Raven isn't solidly any of these things, and so it
becomes terribly boring by default.

If you really want a good movie inspired by the works of Edgar Allan
Poe, there are a few of them out there, including at least two likewise
called The Raven: one starring Bela Lugosi and Boris Karloff , and the
other featuring Vincent Price and, again, Boris Karloff. Though both
films have entirely different stories to tell, they are also both
superior to the new movie in every way. Poe himself was a merciless
critic. Were he alive today, I think his own review of The Raven would
make mine look glowing by comparison.
<|_=00=_|>
We liked this movie a lot. It was well staged,and filmed. It didn't
drag, and made sense. It was very much in the spirit of Poe. We liked
John Cusack in the role. A lot of movies seem chaotic and poorly
thought out. This rolled right along, to a satisfactory Poe like
ending. The credits were unique and linked to the story itself. I
rarely watch horror films, but going to see a movie about Edgar Allen
Poe, I expected to see the Poe story lines--he's the original
horror-suspense master. They played off these elements. We generally
see a movie every week, and this one worked for us. Sherlock Holmes and
Hugo had a lot of mindless running around. This one had a plot that
hung together. I loved the costumes, the atmosphere, and old buildings.
<|_=00=_|>
Great and interesting concept but a little below my expectations. I
admire Poe's writing and biography yet this film did not abide by it.
Edgar Allan Poe( who suffered loss of loved ones, loneliness and
depression)did not reflect completely on John Cusack's interpretation
of the role. In the film The character was half drunk, did criticized
but there was a "humorous vibe" that threw me off pertaining to the
Horror and thriller genre and Poe's personality. There was no moment in
the film where the tormented, bipolar and dark Poe appeared. Also the
movie did not make me think in the sense that every time they found a
crime the film immediately pointed out the story or poem, as a matter
of fact it only took the first crime for the Detective to figure out
that the murder was a reenactment of Poe's story, but according to the
film itself Poe was not famous or even recognized. I did enjoy the
relationship between Poe and Fields, It was interesting in the sense of
the change from suspect to friend, from untrusted to relying on each
other.Also the art direction and Costume design. The ball where "The
mask of the red Death" was depicted was impressive and very detailed as
well as Poe's town and the killers "lair." The movie is visually
striking, emulating historical costumes and setting, but the story lack
consistency. It was a wonderful and thoughtful ending to a defective
and lacking plot due to failures in character developments ( not
counting detective fields). Like previous reviews on this film I would
compare it to Sherlock Holmes, but I would of rather it parallel with
Se7en directed by David Fincher, it had the potential.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a 6 for me. If you are going to make a fictional movie about a
real character I think you should really just go for it, make it
original, and use some imagination. Edgar Allen Poe seems like a great
character to use as inspiration for a very dark, evil, twisted movie.
This wasn't one of those.

Cusack as Poe, was OK, not great, not horrible but just OK. The story
is one I have seen a few times before. The whole author writes
something, serial killer uses it as a blueprint, suddenly the writer is
called in and that was the killers plan all along and it becomes
personal. Yawn. There was so much potential for this movie, and they
turned it in to a played out old story line.

It wasn't bad. After the first ten minutes I figured the rest was going
to be a torture to watch. It did get somewhat better, but never rose
above OK.
