
When a technically sound film like Sarvam evokes mixed reactions from
all quarters (didn't register with me), one is invariably drawn to the
conclusion that the source material is probably flawed. This came up
during a discussion when my uncle expressed surprise at the director's
choice of subject to make a film. This is something that has fascinated
me to no end. How do film-makers pick one idea out of the many that
cross their minds as the one most appealing to them, most likely to
appeal to an audience and also the most demanding of their faculties ?
Vishnuvardhan's (director) choice of the story, particularly the
narrative, is the intriguing thing about the movie. Sarvam comes under
the category of anthology films (Aayidha Ezhuthu) where different
sub-narratives are connected by an event, person, place etc. Despite
the success of Amorres Perros and the popularity of Aayidha Ezhuthu
with youngsters, I doubt if making an anthology-based narrative hinge
on an event will gain widespread acceptance. Four Rooms, to me, is as
quirky and self-obsessed a movie as can possibly be. Inspite of this,
the connecting thread between the four disjointed tales being a person
(Tim Roth) lends perspective to the film. Aayidha Ezhuthu involved a
place (Napier's Bridge) along with an event as a connector of sorts but
it evaded this issue by having three story lines featuring male
protagonists who represent three answers to the same question. The
point being made is that switching perspectives is the last thing an
Indian audience wants to do once it has got a grip of what the story is
about and what might unfold. This is somewhat analogous to the
preference for full-fledged novels over short-story collections.

Also, movies that change track dramatically just about halfway end up
being two different movies eventually. Such films are usually
successful when the switch connects with viewers. Sarvam will probably
go down in the books as one that didn't. With the result when the
switch came, the second half had virtually no participation from me as
is possibly the case with many. In other words, for this film to work,
it needed to put up a strong case for J D Chakravarthy's character and
generate more than just the odd sympathetic nod. In my view, it didn't.
Despite the overall feeling of distaste, certain aspects struck me as
being worthy of praise. Firstly the cinematography. Few during the
eighties and the nineties would have anticipated a surge in this aspect
of film-making. Cinematographic excellence is now so frequent in Tamizh
cinema (the legacy of Balu Mahendra and Mani Ratnam) that it leads one
to believe that soon, it will be taken for granted. Even so, the work
here towers above the rest. Be it the songs or the sequences in Munnar,
Nirav Shah and Vishnuvardhan work wonders with the camera.

Trisha along with Ilaiyaraja's Mella Mella make the first half worth
it.
<|_=00=_|>
Loss. Bereavement. Vengeance. This is what 'Sarvam' is, in a nutshell.
Went to see Sarvam at Satyam Cinemas today morning. It was a different
experience, as we woke up at 7:15 and were rushing to the Theatre.
Chennai was cool as a result of the rain yesterday night. The theatre
was filled with a good crowd. The movie started exactly on time, at
8:30.

Before the movie began, we see the disclaimer which reads: 'All the
incidents in this film are fictitious. Until they happen to you'. We
see an upanishad quote about death. The film begins with Chakravarthi
shouting in anguish inside a dark forest.

The film cuts to Arya, and the introduction song. We learn that
Karthick (Arya) is an architect. He meets Sandhya (Trisha) in a
go-carting race, and falls in love as soon as he sees her. Sandhya is a
doctor, and so Karthick goes to her hospital and tries to woo her.
Sandhya hates Karthick as she thinks he is not serious about life.
Gradually, she falls for him, and the two happily enjoy life. We also
see Eashwar, a man who has lost his wife and his son in a road
accident. Eashwar thinks that it was Naushad, the man who accidentally
hit Eashwar's wife and son with his car, who is solely responsible for
their death, and he repeatedly visits Naushad and threatens him that he
doesn't understand the loss Eashwar has undergone and he will only
understand it if his own son dies. Naushad has a little boy, and
Naushad finally hides in Munnar, fearing Eashwar.

It is at this point that the story takes a serious turn. Sandhya dies
in a brutal accident, and Karthick is devastated. Sandhya's father
tells Karthick that Sandhya's heart has been transplanted and it's
Naushad's son who lives with her heart. Karthick becomes emotional and
goes on a trip to find out Naushad. By following Karthick, Eashwar too
arrives at Munnar.

What happens at Munnar forms the rest of the story. Was Eashwar
successful in his mission to kill Naushad's son? Was Karthick able to
overcome his grief? See the movie on screen.

Sarvam is directed by Vishnu Vardhan. Now, all his previous movies are
stylishly made (Arindum Ariyamalum, Pattiyal, Billa) and this one too,
is brimming with youthful scenes right from the beginning till the
intermission. The first half is romantic and is fun to watch,
especially Arya's repeated attempts to woo Trisha.

The second half is totally different from the first half and the story
takes us through the beautiful locations in Munnar. The climax is a bit
dragging, and I found it uninteresting. Except the final 30 minutes,
this film is worthy to watch.

The story has been woven around the central theme of loss. The pain of
loss. We see Eashwar gradually getting afflicted with the psychotic
obsession of killing Naushad's son, as he thinks he lost his wife and
son because of Naushad. Naushad too, talks in a don't-care manner when
Eashwar comes to Naushad's house for the first time. All this adds up
and Eashwar decides to kill Naushad's son to make him understand the
pain of losing the dearest ones. On the other hand, Karthick too
suffers the pain of loss when he loses Sandhya in the accident. But,
Karthick's mindset is to prevent others from experiencing such a kind
of pain, and that's what he exactly says to Eashwar when they both meet
up in Munnar. This difference in mindsets is what makes the film
worthwhile to watch.

The camera was good, especially in the scenes filmed in Munnar. Nirav
Shah has done a good work. The music too is okay. While seeing the
beautifully filmed songs, I was not able to stop thinking about Vishnu
Vardhan using Rahman in this film. It would have been absolutely
brilliant if Rahman had scored the music, as that would be a perfect
match with the camera work. Yuvan was also good with the songs but
somehow I felt Rahman would have been the better choice, while seeing
the songs.

Arya has done a cool job. Although he is very predictable in some
scenes, he is okay. Trisha was beautiful. After a long time, she has
been shown in a great way, and is cute and attractive. Chakravarthi is
the antagonist, and he looks like a younger Kamal Hassan in some
scenes. He has done a neat job of the psychotic villain.

And, I dunno why throughout the movie, the characters keep praising
Ilayaraja. That too, in comparison with Rahman. I can understand that
this movie was made during Rahman's Oscar glory and may be that's the
reason the film makers decided to justify Ilayaraja against Rahman and
through Arya's character, they say that although Rahman is great,
Ilayaraja is the greatest! I didn't like this comparison game which
went on almost throughout the movie.

Overall, the film is worthy to watch, but beware about the final thirty
minutes, which makes us to question about the logical gaps (holes!!) in
the script.

Sarvam  The pain of loss.
<|_=00=_|>
There are three plots in Sarvam. 

1. Chakravarthi avenging the death of his son 

2. Romantic track of the lead pair 

3. Hero's bonding with The child as he vows to protect him.

There was nothing novel about the romantic track - a typical boy meets
girl kind of expected storyline. Trisha didn't seem fully convinced
about the movie and it showed. 

The hero was just passable (read that needs time to polish his skills).

Chakravarthy seems to be possessed by the ghost of Kamal Hassan. Very
very lame.

Sarvam starts off with a quote from from the Upanishads - don't be
fooled into thinking the movie would deliver a high quotient drama. The
storyline is stale pretty much rotting since 1970's. There are too many
cinematic liberties. The packaging is glossy which deserves special
mention. Cinematographer should be applauded for the rich visuals (be
it Munnar, the rains or the song sequences). A few songs are good while
the rest are jarring. And yes, the action sequences well executed.
Finally the movie could have easily trimmed by 45-minutes - yes you
read that right, for there were lots of places where it seemed a drag.
Especially so when its such a predictable fare! Lastly - the CGI's were
used well.

For multiplex audience, its a full time-pass outing.

PS:: Ilayaraja vs. Rahman - tch! tch! can it sink any deeper?
<|_=00=_|>
The movie basically the theme is good but vishnu vardhan failed to
catch the audience response in the second half of the movie.The first
half is mind blowing performance by Arya and Trisha.All the songs are
very good with excellent choreography and locations behind the scenes
are nice.The only mistake in the movie is the Villain.He is utter waste
in the movie.His acting is poor.

Once watchable only the first half and second half is very bore.Yuvan
done his best in his music performance.There is one song in that movie
in which Arya hits many vehicles such that nothing happens to him.That
camera work was excellent.
