
There have only been a few time this year that I have gotten to leave
the theater with a giant grin on my face, Riddick was one of those
times. 

I spent a little bit of time reading others reviews before I started
typing this up and, I won't lie, they kind of ticked me off. Riddick is
a movie that took its 40 Million dollar budget and stretched it to the
absolute MAX, I also feel like this is one of Vin's best performances
to date. There is no sexism in the film...There is no horrible see
through acting...there is no moment during this movie when I was
bored...It's a thrill ride. A brief summary 

Act 1-Riddick is stranded on what might be his home planet and has to
re-man up after becoming soft while leading the Necromongers (Riddick
being the only person hard enough to ever soften up when taking over a
galaxy dominating army) There is a dog in act one but it plays very
well into the story and I personally got attached to the pup...think of
Will Smith's dog in "I am Legend" 

Act 2-Mercs are brought to the planet and the fun begins...for the next
forty five minutes the story is about the Mercs and Riddick becomes
what we all love...a monster in the Darkness.

Act 3-It starts raining...I'm going to stop there on act three because
I want to spoil nothing... The End-Was exactly what I wanted and had me
leaving the theater with a giant grin on my face. 

WARNING: This is not a happy sing along movie with a perfect hero who
saves the day in the endÂ…this is also not "A Piece of Art." This is
Riddick it's Muddy, Bloody, Painful and as always FUN!
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't expecting much. When I heard of the sequel I assumed it'd be a
bigger and "better" chapter in the Richard D. Riddick series. Then I
saw the trailer and thought that going back to the basics of Pitch
Black felt like Twohy didn't know how to go bigger and was reverting
into his safe bubble. I was wrong. This is by far Twohy's strongest
script with a surprising range of fleshed-out characters. The first ten
minutes of the movie has no dialogue and right from the get-go I was
pleasantly surprised. It begins to feel like an appropriate direction
to take the character. There are jokes that don't work but most do.
While Riddick's monologue is a little... quaint (and a cgi dog
companion that feels a tad out of place; but i get why it's there) i
really think it's important that 'Riddick' is a success at the box
office -- to help open the way for genuinely fun, inventive sci-fi
narratives with a budget.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a genuinely good movie, it follows on from the previous Riddick
movies and doesn't leave anything to be desired. Richard B Riddick is
up to his old tricks again, and if you're a fan, you won't be
disappointed, definitely a must see.

Vin Diesel is great as always, playing a character that never ceases to
enthral me, and the rest of the cast is great too.

You know a movie is good when it makes you watch the previous movies
when you get home from seeing it. 

The music is also exceptional I found too, fitting in very well with
the action scenes.

I've always found Riddick to be a movie that is very rich in its
universe, it pulls you in without really telling you much, and this
movie does exactly the same, worth a watch even if you're not a fan.
<|_=00=_|>
I really don't get some people. Everyone was saying how Chronicles was
so much more different than Pitch Black (which personally I don't find
a negative thing)and they should have stuck to something more like
Pitch Black. Then Riddick comes out and people are saying its like
watching Pitch Black again. Make up your minds people !

Second, if you're expecting this movie to win an Oscar, please don't
watch it. It's a sci fi movie with action, killing, fighting and blood.
If you got any problem with any of those I don't know why you paid for
a ticket really.

The movie itself was very good. I've been waiting a looong time for
this movie to come out. I've watched the other two Riddick movies
waaayyyy too many times for me to remember. If you're a Riddick fan or
feel like watching a kick-ass movie then I would recommend going to see
Riddick. You don't really need to have watched the first two movies,
but I would recommend seeing them anyway if you haven't.
<|_=00=_|>
OK big fan of the 1st one, and I do like the 2nd one (directors cut
though) and I can also see why some did not like the 2nd, it has some
issues but the main one was the ALIEN 3 problem, that been after Aliens
and all its army and guns, ALIEN 3 was no guns no army......people
wanted more of the same, which in this case its funny to see that a 3rd
Riddick film which gives people Riddick vs monsters is getting "its a
rehash" Not sure what people want from a film like this, its pure comic
book action, and I loved it, but you have to see what they were playing
with, less than half the budget of the 2nd film and half as long to
shoot, this is a labour of love for the Director and Vin, by today's
PG13 Hollywood standards its a miracle it was made as a R/15, as for
the film itself they seemed to make good use of the low budget, some
very nice setups and yes in parts the low budget shows but as a whole
its good, and that about sums up the film...GOOD, I rate it higher than
most of Joe public but I am a fan and get more of a kick out of it, and
going by the others in the cinema the feeling was "a good action film"
while fans came out "great, been waiting ages for this, now give us a
4th, finish the story" I will go see it again and look forward to the
BluRay
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw the movie and loved it. I greatly enjoyed the first and second
films so I've been looking forward to this since it was announced. It's
a great sci-fi bad-ass action movie. Plenty of cheesy one-liners and
good action scenes set in a sci-fi world.

The story wasn't anything spectacular, no breaking new ground here but
it does set the stage for the next (hope we get a next!!!!). Graphics
were well-done, alien life wasn't anything unique but were suitably
scary.

If you liked the 1st and/or 2nd film you'll enjoy this. It pays more
homage to the 1st than the 2nd. Vin Diesel does another great job
acting as Riddick and you'll be cheering for the anti-hero as usual.

I personally am hoping the series continues, can't get enough of this!
hope you enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
I actually didn't hate the Chronicles or Riddick as much as other
people did. I didn't think it was that bad. And of course, Pitch Black
was great. Out of the three films in the series, this is definitely the
worst. First of all, it's almost exactly the same plot as Pitch Black.
Riddick teams with people that want him dead and vice versa to kill
deadly creatures and escape the planet they're stranded on. I just
don't know why they made the same movie twice. The action in the movie
felt uninspired and dull. Plus, for all his legendary skill, Riddick
find himself near death as a result of situations that should've been a
cake walk for him. The ending was also very abrupt and strange. Two
ships ascend, one with Riddick the other with the mercenaries who now
admire our hero; they exchange stupid sentiments, screen shot Riddicks'
face and then cut to black. What?!!! That was it? The movie stopped but
there was no ending. It would've been smarter to see him on the first
step of his next adventure. Did he find Furya? Maybe his ship could be
flying towards the planet while adventure music plays. But nope. Just
Riddicks's face then credits. The movie was very hollow and it felt
like nothing really happened. Very poorly done.
<|_=00=_|>
If this weren't another Riddick movie, I would have walked out.

If you're a huge Riddick fan, and you've already seen Pitch Black, then
you've essentially already seen this movie. Except "Stay In the Light"
and "Stay Out of the Light" are now "Stay Out of the Wet." There's a
lot of recycled content in this movie, from the concept to the music
and even some of the alien monster noises. The monsters themselves even
resemble those found in Pitch Black, though without the awesomely
gnarly protruding eyes.

But now Riddick has a dog. And suddenly he's concerned about right and
wrong instead of being the classic anti-hero from all previous movies.
Nothing is solved. Like Pitch Black, the entire movie is about him
getting off a planet infested with alien monsters bent on eating him.
The huge mass of predatory aliens only come out into the world when it
rains, which apparently, judging from the desert-like conditions is
extremely rare. Sort of like another certain planet, also desert-like,
whose creatures only venture out when it's completely dark, another
uncommon event.

I was surprised that Karl Urban got such high billing considering he's
on the screen for about two minutes. If you were seeking resolution
concerning Furya and the necromongers, forget it. Instead, you'll get
Vin Diesel and his CGI canine. He almost manages to eek out a tear when
it inevitably dies. A softer, kinder Riddick.

Save your $10 and just wait for the video if you HAVE to see it. But
this movie was such an obvious ploy for money without regard to the
Riddick series that I'm going to black it out of my memory and pretend
it doesn't exist.
<|_=00=_|>
I love Pitch Black movie. In fact, it is one of my beloved movies and
one of the best sci-fi movies I've ever watched. A perfect mix of
horror, action movie and a drama, with colorful and interesting
characters and same anti-hero. Chronicles wasn't so good but still was
entertaining and fun to watch. So I'm even more disappointed now...
Riddick was to be expected as returning to the roots; simply being a
better Pitch Black, and proud continue of this great franchise.
Unfortunately it isn't half as good as Pitch Black is. Moreover, it is
really bad, BAD movie, so bad that I can't understand how David Twohy
managed to do that. Riddick sucks in almost every way; it is a truly
boring experience most of the time. Script is bad, dialogs are weak,
like written by 10 years old. Characters are dull and empty - including
Riddick character(Sorry, Vin). Only neurotic Santana seems to be at
right place and feels somewhat interesting. Besides of Riddick, I'm
truly disappointed in Dahl character - thought she would play a greater
role than a plaything to our anti-hero. Not to mention Luna guy who
brought to the movie simply nothing. Weak, weak, weak. Riddick is still
a tough guy like he was expected to be, but this time he is just
unconvincing with his cheesy lines and strange behavior. The only good
thing is his bond with a dog, and really, NOTHING else. There is no
tense, no dynamic in this movie. Riddick was supposed to be a predator
so I thought he would be a real bad-ass finishing off his opponents one
by one. But no. There's no single action with him worth to mention. And
this one with Santana is a 'bit' awkward... I'm heavily disappointed in
this film, in David Twohy and Vin Diesel. Sorry guys, but you totally
let me down. Not recommending it.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Riddick last night and enjoyed it very much. No, it wasn't a
perfect film, but I knew going in that I wasn't going to see an Oscar
contender!!! The action and special effects were great, the story is
nothing we haven't already seen before though it was well done, and the
acting was as expected for this genre. What it does lack in
originality, it makes up for in intensity. It is a violent film, but it
is action violence and nowhere near "torture porn". Yes, you will have
to suspend a good deal of belief, but no more than in any other action
film. If you are looking for a heartwarming tale of humanity at it's
best -- skip this one. If you are expecting a modern retelling of 2001,
than forget this one. If you are looking for mindless entertainment
with a lot of action and a plausible storyline, this is for you.
