
All I can say is... Big Wow. Boy did I enjoy this film. The story-line
is a cross between The Fugitive and a human heist plot movie. There
were moments where I genuinely really didn't know which way the story
would end. Has to be one of the best, if not the best film I've seen
this year.

I just had to watch right through to the end. The only down side, were
the roles of the 2 main cops. I'm not sure if 2 real cops would be as
persistent. But I guess if they weren't, then the film would be a fair
bit shorter.

I can't think of any other bad things about it, as it does what it is
supposed to do, make you care about the characters and keep you gripped
till the end. All in all very entertaining. 

Definitely worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Russell Crowe is a pretty reliable star, one who commands the screen
with intelligence and enough bravado to get away with a film like this.
Somehow, audiences and critics are getting more demanding and expect
brainier and tighter story lines, but it's still plenty of fun to see a
light, crazy ride like this... One where the hero is besieged by
unfortunate circumstances and must one way or another succeed or die.
With the help of Haggis' strong direction and a very good performance
by Crow, we're treated to two hours of action, where one doesn't have
to do a lot of thinking, just watching Crowe dodge bullet after bullet
and cheer him along to the nail-biting end.

The main reason the film works is Crowe gives it his best, scene after
scene his eyes tells us his character is committed to his family, and
he will stand by them no matter what. There is very little background
given to us, except for an opening scene which serves the purpose of
planting the seed of doubt in our minds, but this only helps fuel the
sense of despair and sadness that threatens to destroy this family.

Little by little, we follow Crowe's teacher, as he races against the
clock to help his wife, and soon enough, he is dealing with the scum of
society and an increasingly suspicious police force. Relationships with
his family are tense at best, and any new relationships are threatened
his wife's past. It's the attention to this intimate and personal
moments that makes us care for him, even when he makes a couple of
disturbing moves.

One thing you won't be is bored, as the circle tightens, so that his
quest might not get his desired results. Fine work is done by a cast
that includes Brian Dennehy, Liam Nelson, and Jsson Beghe. This is what
movies are made for.
<|_=00=_|>
The Next Three Days 

The best films are those where you are introduced to characters who do
the unpredictable believably, or people you think will be key players
die in the opening scene, someone you least expect turns out to be the
murderer, these are the films that keep you guessing and keep you
involved. In Paul Haggis' intense thriller he chooses a wise and well
crafted angle to lure you in and hold your attention. The development
of John Brennan and his gradual transformation over time before your
very eyes.

Meet John Brennan, he's a normal average working man, slightly nerdy
even, living a fairly dull routine life. When his wife is imprisoned
for murder John, as you would expect of a normal average slightly nerdy
working man follows the rules of appeal in an attempt to win her
freedom. Three years pass and the realisation that his wife will remain
behind bars for life hits home. When normal people find themselves in
hopeless situations desperation can drive them to do very abnormal
things. 

What Haggis works brilliantly into both his screenplay and direction is
the gradual metamorphosis of Brennan's persona as he becomes fixated on
breaking his wife out of prison. Brennan doesn't suddenly become the
all American action hero capable of great feats of courage. We have a
knowledge of his character from the beginning of the film and Haggis
does not treat the audience as idiots, we know that Brennan cannot walk
into a phonebox and there's a sudden change into superman. This would
not work for John Brennan, the nerdy schoolteacher, what we see however
is how little by little, piece by piece he falls more and more out of
control, deeper and deeper out of his depth. We know this is not the
normal behaviour of Brennan, but the screenplay is so well crafted and
Crowe delivers the character to us perfectly that both the scenarios
and Brennan remain at all times, believable. He makes tremendous
mistakes and shows real human failings and frailties that as we ride
along with him we're never far from the belief that it will all go very
wrong, very soon. Haggis treats us to a wonderfully woven story that
rolls along with ease, then suddenly the momentum builds into a Tsunami
of real tension. Brennan is completely exposed and you fear for his
outcome. 

If a director can pull you into the story, make you care about a
character, and if during the course of that film allow you to watch
that character change in a very real and gradual way then he has
delivered a truly great film.

Haggis' screenplay does not allow the audience to get ahead of the
story. Developments are unexpected and plausible scenarios affect
action and reaction. Some events have no bearing on the outcome but you
cannot know which are red herrings and which are genuine avenues rather
you find yourself wondering where this will all lead to, making The
Next Three Days a complex and intriguing thriller very much in the
cerebral and classical sense such as North by Northwest or Vertigo. 

A tremendous, faultless film.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is a surprisingly good movie, not the usual Hollywood formula
potboiler. The movie has an interesting story, strong acting and
excellent cinematography. Perhaps the plot is somewhat far-fetched but
so what? It's a movie. The best part of this movie are not the stars
but the supporting cast. Most impressive was the performance by Lennie
James who definitely deserves formal recognition for his work in this
movie. So strong is his performance that I this movie could easily be
retitled "The Pursuit" without misleading the audience. Both Russell
Crowe and Elizabeth Banks give strong performances and Brian Dennehy
once again proves how great he is as an actor. At times the story does
stretch the boundaries of plausibility but never to the point that the
story is rendered ridiculous. In this movie there are no bad guys.
Rather it dramatizes a justice system that at times may not get it
right and how frustration and indignation can lead one to commit acts
of desperation.
<|_=00=_|>
Had read some positive / negative reviews so wasn't sure what to
expect.

I cannot believe how emotional this film was! The beginning is good -
we find out who everyone is and how everyone got to where they are,
nothing especially exciting but well-written and acted. Then the film
kicks into gear with the escape.

Honestly, I was actually shaking at one point with nerves because I
wasn't sure if they would make it or not.

People criticising films for not being believable should go and watch
documentaries.

This film was exciting, had excellent music, was well acted and the
positives FAR outweighed any negatives.

Definitely glad I watched this.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
"The Next Three Days" is a tight, hard-hitting thriller that had me on
the edge of my seat throughout the film. I really didn't know, right up
to the final moments, how it would end  and because the film had
expertly guided me to care about all the characters, even some random
losers in a meth lab, I did care about how it would end. The actors are
all good with Russell Crowe especially so, and the realistically gritty
sets perfectly match the film's desperate tone. Elizabeth Banks'
too-good-to-be-true wholesome, sunny good looks are well used. "The
Next Three Days" reminded me of Hitchcock, and of 1993's "The
Fugitive," but it doesn't rise to that level of classic. Rather, it's a
well-oiled machine, designed efficiently to crank out the audience's
engagement, tension and release.

There are a couple of especially good moments. The opening scene could
have been satisfactory if all it did was to set the stage for what is
to follow, but it does so much more. I'd love to watch that scene again
(and again). A women with a plunging neckline spars with Lara, a more
modestly dressed woman, about whether or not women can ever get over
their competition over men and bond with each other. The scene
demonstrates its contents: Ms. Décolletage uses double entendres to
make a pass at Lara's husband, and Lara shows the audience she is quite
capable of losing her temper, an important plot point. The brilliant
writing in this scene is a bonus. There is a scene involving a sewer
drain that economically resolves a question the audience has had for
some time. A scene with a car door is similarly powerful and
informative. Brian Dennehy's performance as an intimacy-impaired,
working class dad is almost wordless and quite brilliant. And the film
really does bring poignancy to the scum of the earth, drug dealers.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this at a London preview screening.

I have not seen the original that this is apparently a remake of so I
cannot compare. What I can say is that this movie was deftly directed
with a perfect pacing that smoothly shifts through each gear from 1 to
full throttle. It starts off with the necessary slow exposition,
transitioning to a heartfelt family crisis drama and crime thriller
with the tension slowly cranking up to a breakneck speed when I was
literally holding my breath in the compelling edge of the seat finale.

What I admire most about this film is the smooth kinetic flow from
scene to scene. There didn't seem to be any implausible leap in logic
apart from maybe towards the end but everything just connects together
so well. All of the actors were superb in their roles. As for Russel
Crowe, well I can't think of many actors who expresses wordless undying
love better than he can. He is simply a master of it and you just cant
help root for him even if he makes or contemplates morally wrong
decisions. His character is beautifully played with all the
invulnerability, weaknesses and stubborn obsession he possesses.

The supporting actors were all excellent in the little screen time that
they each get. And there is even a brilliant cameo by a well known
Irish actor (shant spoil who it is for you) that sparked up the screen
briefly in an instrumental role to the plot. The great Brian Denhhey
also has a few minutes on screen time as Crowes father, hardly uttering
a word but you just know exactly what is going on in his mind and it is
absolutely touching. 

So in summary, this is a top thriller with an exhilarating edge of the
seat 3rd act, enriched by beautifully touching moments and thick
underlying subtext of undying love.
<|_=00=_|>
Set aside the fact that people are forgetting how to enjoy a flick.
Pick away all you want at little parts of even the greatest film ever
and you'll surely find something to criticize. A movie is, well, a
movie. So now that all that is out of the way, where do I even start?
This film brought me to tears, it had my attention the whole way
through. I don't understand those that say parts are slow, what were
they watching? It wasn't this one, that's for sure. Everybody that
worked to put this one together did a fantastic job, and it most
definitely shows. I do believe the movie touched me so intensely in
part because I have a wife and a son, and was able to feel a relation
to the characters. Regardless, the movie was just fantastic, and you
will not regret the experience. Unless of course you are one of the
rising population of "movie critics" that score films based on
guidelines, or however they get their ridiculous views. Enjoy this one!
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be one of the best films I have watched of late. Everything
you would wish it to be. Very tense at times and keeps you on edge.
Great acting from Russell Crowe and the story is very smart and
gripping. Not as predictable as some films seem to be when using a
similar storyline to this. Very entertaining all the way through from
start to finish with no gaps which is always good for a film that
exceeds 2 hours in duration. A very different performance from Crowe
which we don't offer see, but be played it very well, and very
powerful. Definitely a must watch. Don't wait around for this one, I
would strive to watch it straight away for those that haven't done so
yet.
<|_=00=_|>
In Paul Haggis' new thriller, The Next Three Days, Laura Brennan
(Elizabeth Banks) is accused of killing her boss and is sent to prison.
Her husband, John Brennan (Russell Crowe) battles through the legal
system for nearly three years before seemingly running out of options.
Choosing not to go the Hilary Swank route a la Conviction and spend the
next 30 years trying to learn and eventually beat the system, John
elects instead to speak to an expert on prison escapes (a wonderfully
placed cameo by Liam Neeson) to get pointers on what to expect in a
daring prison break attempt. The Neeson character gives important
advice in reference to the time it takes for authorities to seal off a
city's exits, but also gives insight into what his plan should include
 "You have to have the entire plan already in place. And you have to
ask yourself, can you kill a guard, leave your kid at a gas
stationcause to do this thing, that's what you have to become."
Audiences are then treated to a taut and thrilling attempt by John to
free his wife out of prison and reunite the family which includes their
young son Luke (Ty Simpkins).

The Next Three Days is a better than average thrill ride filled with
equal moments of edge-of-your-seat action and true emotion that spurs
the entire cast. Crowe quickly makes us forget that Robin Hood stole
our box office money earlier this year and turns in a top-rate
performance as the husband who must become a criminal himself in an
attempt to pull off the impossible. The supporting cast which includes
a non-glamorous Banks and small but memorable turns by Daniel Stern and
Brian Dennehy help bridge the quieter moments of the 2+ hour film.

As John maps out his intricate plan, he is met with obstacles that
force him to revise his original course of action to supplement for the
unforeseen complications. His attempts at securing financing and proper
papers (Drivers License, Passport) take the majority of the film's
running time and helps provide insight into the transformation of
John's character that goes from college professor to cold blooded
killer.

When John does launch his intentions, The Next Three Days soars as an
exciting chase throughout the Pittsburgh streets and sidewalks as a
group lead by Lt. Nabulsi (Lennie James) gives relentless chase to the
fleeing Brennans.

Paul Haggis (who also penned the screenplay) directs for the first time
since the underrated In The Valley of Elah in 2007 and crafts an
exhilarating cat and mouse game that involves audiences in a
root-for-the-family emotional ride all the while suggesting that
protagonist John is equally guilty in his relentless pursuit.
Surprisingly not complicating our support is the idea that Laura may
indeed be guilty of the crime to which she was convicted.

The ever twisting screenplay shows Haggis' knack for writing scripts
that don't allow audiences to get too far ahead of the story
developments as unexpected and plausible scenarios affect even the best
laid out of plans. This may leave lesser minded cinephiles wondering
why certain scenes were not left on the cutting room floor (a DVD
chapters worth of making a specific key, for example), but for those
engrossed in the ongoing struggle of John's pursuit should appreciate
the occasional red herring.

The sum of the above leaves The Next Three Days as on par or better
than Ben Affleck's well-received The Town earlier this fall. It's a
throwback to the superior thrillers of the late 1970's where the story
journey's down unexpected highways while enthralling an audience along
the way.
