
True to its title, 'The Apparition' arrives almost too quietly in
cinemas this week  though rather than being a marketing gimmick like
how the first 'Paranormal Activity' built its cult status, there is a
much more straightforward reason why this low-budget B-grade horror
flick has come without any fanfare. It is flat out bad, no less than
bottom of the barrel stuff, even if you approach it with the kind of
lowered standards you typically take to such fly-by-night productions
from Joel Silver's Dark Castle Entertainment or Sam Raimi's Ghost House
Pictures. 

Indeed, it is from the former that this first-time feature by
writer/director Todd Lincoln hails from, and suffice to say that
despite being bestowed the rare honour of shouldering dual
responsibilities on this film, it is unlikely that Lincoln will find
himself with similar luck soon. His 'Apparition' shows none of the
ingenuity or even coherence of Oren Peli's 'Paranormal Activity', one
of the few horror classics that he tries to emulate in the course of a
muddled and practically nonexistent plot. 

After setting the scene with a 1970s séance experiment where a group of
researchers used their minds to conjure the spirit of a lost colleague
back into this world, the film opens with a similar procedure carried
out by three amateur parapsychology students - Patrick (Tom Felton),
Ben (Sebastian Stan), and Lydia (Julianna Guill). Successful they may
have been, their efforts have opened a portal for a spirit to grab
Lydia back into the netherworld. Fast forward four years later, and the
story picks up with Ben moving into a new house with his current
girlfriend Kelly (Ashley Greene). 

Playing like a teen friendly version of 'Paranormal Activity', strange
occurrences start happening around their home, including the obligatory
flickering lights, shadows in the dark and moving furniture. Then
Lincoln remembers a certain horror movie he watched called 'Dark
Water', and the said apparition begins appearing as a black mouldy
patch on the ceilings and below the linoleum floors. Further on,
Lincoln recalls 'Ju- On' and the apparition turns into a black-skinned
long-haired girl moving on all fours. But more frustrating than its
derivativeness is how lethargic the whole affair is. 

Never once do you feel that the threat to Kelly or Ben is real, nor in
fact do you care for their predicament. That's partly because Lincoln
doesn't know how to build tension even with a brief 75 minutes running
time (sans the protracted end credits), and partly because the actors
involved look plain uninvolved. And really how do you identify with
characters who spout lines as inane as  "Our house is too new to be
haunted. It has no history."  or the utter obvious like  "Your house
isn't haunted. You are."? 

It is also too daft to realise its own stupidity, pretending to be much
smarter than it really is by reintroducing science into the mix about
half an hour before the picture's end with a lot of mambo-jumbo about
electromagnetic waves and reversing polarity. In truth, the science in
the movie is bullshit, and the more it tries to act intelligent about
it, the sillier it comes off. Finally, when it has one of its
characters Patrick urgently say that the apparition is some entity even
older and more sinister than demons, you know that it is just grabbing
at straws to try to reinstate its credibility. 

The only consolation you get is that its ending is as terrible as you
expect it to  since the rest of movie is already that atrocious, no
climax however bad can be considered a copout. No wonder then that 'The
Apparition' has emerged like a ghost into theatres, without publicity
and without any press previews. It has but one aim  to lure
unsuspecting moviegoers hoping to have a ghost of a scare before
'Paranormal Activity 4' swings around for Halloween - and the only
scare it will offer is how shockingly inept it is. Yes, you won't find
much of a movie here, just an apparition of several much more superior
classics that have come before it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is bad. There is one scene where my brother and I literally
face palmed simultaneously. Please do not go see this. Please do not
wait for blockbuster. Please do not wait for red box. Please do not
wait for netflix. Don't even pirate this. It's that bad. The only good
reason to go and see this is if you want something to complain about
later. In fact, I had more fun complaining about how bad this movie is
than actually watching it. And I like this genre. I'm stoked for
Paranormal 4, Resident Evil 5, and Silent Hill 2. If your looking for
decent alternatives, check out The Innkeepers, Grave Encounters
(cheesy, but cool), or the Tunnel. That one scared the hell out of me.
The Tunnel is available to torrent legally too.
<|_=00=_|>
The Apparition (2012) 

* (out of 4) 

The horror film Warner tried to sneak into theaters and hope no one
noticed it. Sadly, I noticed it but thankfully it was only a $5 show
(which was still a rip). Couple Kelly (Ashley Greene) and Ben
(Sebastian Stan) arrive in a new home only to discover strange things
happening. Kelly is all confused but apparently Ben recognizes this
"haunting" due to an experiment he did in college where one of his best
friends mysteriously vanished. While watching THE APPARITION my mind
started to go back to the mid 90's before SCREAM came along and the
horror genre was just delivering some pretty awful movies. This here
reminded me of one of them because there's really nothing going right
in this picture, which starts with an incredibly boring and unscary
pre-credits sequence and sadly things just get worse from here. I'm
sure in the writing stages people get an idea, look over it, make
changes, take away the bad and add some good. They re-work the process
until they come up with a story that they can work with. It really does
seem that this film just took the first bad idea and filmed it so that
they could get anything in a theater before Halloween. The entire story
here is just simply bad, laughable and there were times where I just
wanted to walk out on it. The entire situation is something I'll avoid
spoiling for those who do decide to see the film but it all adds up to
a half-baked idea that never works and the ending is just downright
stupid. I'd say the studio should be thankful that no one is watching
this or else it would probably be getting some heat. The performances
aren't anything to write home about but I enjoyed Greene for the most
part. THE APPARITION is obviously trying to follow in the PARANORMAL
ACTIVITY foot steps but there's not a single scare to be had here.
<|_=00=_|>
A rare horror movie I have ever watched in cinema. The premise and
Ashley Greene are the ones that actually attracted me. I thought the
tag line of 'You believe, you die' could have become something
interesting but unfortunately, it is only touch and go. Ashley Greene
is no doubt hot and her acting is not bad. Unfortunately, the movie is
somewhat disappointing thanks to its so generic story and short
runtime.

The good: Ashley sizzles up the screen. The music is surprisingly okay
for a horror movie. I like how it does not resort to shocking the
audience with cheap jump scenes unlike other movies that are eager to
make the audience jump often. Sadly, those are what I like about the
movie.

The bad: Lots of things for a horror movie. The story is nothing
original which is a disappointment. It is very straight-forward with no
twist. Just some ghostly events string up together. The runtime is one
of the biggest crime. It is only 1 hour and 22 minutes and take away
the credit's runtime and you get...nothing much. The story just zip to
the ghostly events. Nothing much about the ghostly stuff is said. The
climax, I must say, is one of the worst climax I have seen in a horror
movie. It is almost anti-climax but I won't spoil anything. It just has
no resolution. It is also not that scary nor intense. Acting is okay
but fans of Tom Felton and Julianna Guill will be disappointed.

Overall: It is barely worth a watch in cinema. I am sure it could be
viewed as better when it is released on DVD/Blu-ray. The Apparition is
a disappointingly generic low-budget horror movie which is a pity. The
cast and the premise should have more potential to be interesting.
<|_=00=_|>
I was waiting for this movie to come out for a while now. The reason
being that I'd heard a lot about it on some horror sites. So I finally
got it the other day on DVD and although it wasn't great, it wasn't a
total waste of time. The story is about a couple (Ben and Kelly) who
move in to a newish house on a new estate. But soon after that they
discover that they're being haunted by some sort of entity that Ben had
released in to the world a year or so earlier with a group of friends.
Now I know the story is nothing new but I did like the effects in this
movie. There were some good WTF moments and a couple of scary-ish
scenes but to me it felt like there was something missing, that it
needed a couple of more scenes to tie it all together as I felt left
wanting more from the plot, and the film was only 73 minutes long. It
could have gone another 10 minutes I thought. So yes I did like the
movie but it could have been much better. I give it a 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Went in with no expectations att all regarding this. And i must say i
was positively amazed. The story centers on a couple moving into a new
house. Soon weird things start to happen, things which can only be
described as a haunting. Seems like the boyfreind was part of an
experiment that went awry. They tried to contact an entity from the
other side and succeeded with catastrophic consequences. One of the
team was sucked in to the other side. Anyways, now the apparition is
out to get the rest of the team, which unfortenatly includes the
girlfriend. (I mean what the heck? Why say no to an extra snack) As far
as the movie goes its pretty standard haunted house business. But its
pretty well done. Jumpscares galore, sure but it does it pretty well.
The acting is OK to, fun to see Tom felton again. The effects are
sparse but executed well, including spooky shadows and otherwordly
noises. SPOILERS! The end reminded me of Kairo, other spirits uses the
rift the team created and seem to bring on the end of days! So, I know
this movie has taken a lot of crap, but really, how whiny can you get!
Its a fun horror flick, no more no less, and i sure recommends it to
fans of haunted house movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I first heard about this movie by listening to Coast to Coast AM where
the Writer/Director was on talking about this film and how he was
inspired by actual events. So I was really anticipating watching this
film.

At first it started out pretty interesting but then it took a turn for
the worse. I started to not care about what was going on, the
characters were a bit annoying and I didn't really care about them one
way or another.

The film is not scary, it has its thrilling moments but all in all it's
just a typical horror film for the new generation which really means
its pathetic.

I think the film would have been awesome if it had followed the group
doing the experiment on getting a ghost to appear, in fact that's what
I was thinking I was getting into but instead got a cheap shot at a
horror film that left me feeling like I had completely wasted my time.

It had some good moments but all in all it's not really worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a decent angle at a haunting, but the writing is just not good.

It has a good cast. It has good looking shots and special FX. The
trailer drew me in. They did good with that. There are some really
clever things in the movie, like how the furniture was rearranged in
the room, literally. That was cool. But the story is just poorly
written.

It isn't the worst movie out there, as some others have said. That's
silly. I have seen much worse! But I give it a generous 5 stars for
production value. The movie is not worth watching other than for
educational purposes, in my humble opinion. Sorry guys. But a different
script with the same production team could have much better results.
<|_=00=_|>
The ads for "The Apparition" tell us it's about how believing in
supernatural events can make them real. The finished film, on the other
hand, never once says anything about belief or non-belief. There's only
a lot of generic talk about summoning some dark, evil force from "the
other side." Already, we have a huge problem, namely that people will
pay to see a film founded on a premise conjured up by a studio
marketing department rather than by the filmmakers. Did they know their
movie was being so grossly misrepresented, that the prominent tagline,
"Once you believe, you die," does not factor into the storyline as they
conceived it? This is the most infuriating display of bait-and-switch
advertizing since "Case 39," the long-delayed supernatural thriller
about a demonic little girl in the care of Renée Zellweger.

But suppose "The Apparition" hadn't relied on a deceptive ad campaign,
that its actual premise had been used to entice audiences. What then?
Not much, I'm afraid. Here is a horror movie so narratively tepid, so
stylistically derivative, and so conceptually vague that one wonders if
it began with anything resembling a screenplay. It has plenty in the
way of atmosphere but virtually nothing in the way of plot, character
development, theme, or insight. The thrills, while technically
competent, are mediocre at best, all drawn from the likes of other,
more original, and in most cases more successful horror films. This
means that, nine times out of ten, we can see a scare coming long
before it finally arrives. Unfortunately, this level of predictability
doesn't extend to the overall story, which doesn't even try to be
understandable.

We open with Super 8 footage of a paranormal experiment conducted in
the 1970s, when a group of people sitting around a table somehow
summoned an entity from "the other side." This manifestation, known as
The Charles Experiment, was successfully recreated decades later by a
group of college students, who had an arsenal of high tech equipment at
their disposal. We see their efforts courtesy of their own home video
footage; rest assured, the Queasy Cam is utilized, and there's a lot of
screaming in the darkness. Flash forward to what I assume is the
present day. We meet a young couple, veterinarian-in-training Kelly
(Ashley Greene) and tech-company service rep Ben (Sebastian Stan). They
begin noticing strange things happening in their new house, such as
doors open by themselves without tripping the burglar alarm, lights
flickering, mysterious thuds, and large patches of mold growing
spontaneously in odd places.

And so continue these "Paranormal Activity"-inspired events until Kelly
discovers Ben's connection to the recreated college experiment, which
resulted in the disappearance of one of the participants. It's obvious
that some kind of supernatural entity is haunting Kelly and Ben. But
what is it exactly? Here enters a British parapsychology student named
Patrick (Tom Felton), a geeky typecast whose role is to provide the
lead characters  and vicariously, the audience  with technobabble
explanations of a wild, paranormal nature. The more he explains, the
less sense the situation makes; this entity, whatever it is, operates
under rules so random and confusing that no potential audience is
likely to make heads or tails of it. We know that a doorway to the
other side was opened, that it wants to exist in our world, that it
lives off of our fears, that it wants to kill people, and that, at
least in one instance, it can take the form of the missing participant.
But why? What does any of this mean?

Yet again, I turn my attention back to "Paranormal Activity," which
worked so well because nothing was explained. How is it possible that
"The Apparition" fails for the exact same reason? The answer is simple:
Unlike "Paranormal Activity," which was much more psychologically
driven, "The Apparition" is completely story driven, and therefore is
required to be clear in its intentions. One cannot make a movie on
merely an idea. It must first be honed into something comprehensible,
something an audience can actually navigate through. Watching this
movie is not at all unlike playing a game without knowing what the
rules are; as you struggle to make sense of your surroundings, you're
open to attacks from the opposing team.

The final act, while visually engaging, is a maddening collection of
twists and revelations that clarify absolutely nothing. The last scene
in particular seems intentionally constructed to make as little sense
as possible  and you should know that the trailer spoils it for you
regardless. How could this have become such a mess? What movie did
anyone involved believe they were making? It might have helped if the
filmmakers had used the plot the ads falsely allude to. "Paranormal
events are a product of the human mind," says a small section on the
homepage of the film's website, "and ghosts only exist because we
believe in them." This is an intriguing idea, and it certainly would
have been worth exploring. Apart from not being the film it was
advertized to be, "The Apparition" is boring, unoriginal, and
nonsensical.

-- Chris Pandolfi (www.atatheaternearyou.net)
<|_=00=_|>
"The Apparition" was actually a nice change of pace for an otherwise
stale genre of ghost movies that most recently have been flooded by a
heap of super fake 'found footage' movies that we are spoon-fed to
believe is actually real. But then "The Apparition" comes along and
manages to lift up the genre from an otherwise downward spiral.

The story in "The Apparition" is not overly scary, as per se, but it
does move ahead at a brisk pace, and it does leave you wondering what
is going on and wanting to see more. Unfortunately, there weren't any
scare moments in the movie, and that was a shame, because a couple of
scares and 'edge-of-the-seat' moments would have been nice.

However, the movie does provide you with just the right amount of
suspense, thrills and ghostly phenomena to keep it interesting. And it
turning out to be a poltergeist phenomena just makes it all the more
interesting.

As for the acting in the movie, well then people did good enough jobs
with their given characters and roles, although no one really managed
to stand out from the crowd. That being said, don't get me wrong,
because they weren't amateurs.

I enjoyed "The Apparition" for what it was, a good-hearted attempt at
returning to the good old atmosphere that they had in "Poltergeist".
However, "The Apparition" was just lacking all the ghosts, spooks and
disturbing images. Sure, "The Apparition" is not "Poltergeist", nor is
it "Thirteen Ghosts", but it still does provide good entertainment.
