
For the first time in nearly 3 years i can finally say something that's
modern and in this century has made me laugh i cant get over how
amazingly blunt the jokes are in the show , and that's what i think the
writers went for in this film BLUNTNESS , every joke in the film hits
you like a ton of bricks there isn't one scene that didn't have me in
fits of laughter it was just fantastic. Jason Bateman again showing the
world he can act and telling his critics to go swivel on his middle
finger by how great he was in horrible bosses.

I personally rated every single actor in this film as Grade A , the
acting was just superb! If you want a good laugh and a good night out
go and see horrible bosses , best 8 pounds 50 I've ever spent! Oh on a
side note , something totally off topic! As the film ended in the
cinema i got up and went down the stairs leading out of the cinema , i
looked back for my mate who was taking his time , and everyone was
still sat down watching the blooper reel , when it ended everyone saw
me alone at the bottom of the stairs noticed my T-SHIRT and i quote my
T-SHIRT SAYS! FAT PEOPLE ARE HARD TO KIDNAP.

Entire cinema laughed! :) Great day Great Film , Great Audience.
<|_=00=_|>
Just got back from a press screening. Horrible Bosses is an easy to
relate to comedy that keeps you engaged and amused all the way. Some
great scenes involving crude/sexual/racial humor that catch you off
guard and have you rolling. The plot is a little forced, as was the
ending, which is partially forgivable in the case of a comedy, as long
as it makes you laugh. Seeing Kevin Spacey play asshole boss brought
back fond memories (Swimming With Sharks), he pulls it off very well.
Jennifer Aniston very outside her standard girly role, and it was
awesome. Charlie Day was amazing, and resembles his character in always
Sunny in Philly (personal fav). Overall, not quite for the collection,
but definitely worthwhile a trip to the movie theater!
<|_=00=_|>
Lots of twists and turns in this surprising comedy. At first you'll
think you know what's going to happen -- but wait, and watch the movie
to the very end, including the credits. Several in this extraordinary
cast (perhaps especially Jennifer Aniston) step outside their "comfort
zone" and display aspects of their personalities and acting skills that
may surprise you. I find it difficult to impossible to say which actor
is "best" only because so many of them are extremely good. 

The "R" rating for this movie is for real, and is about the language in
particular (when you have a character whose very name can't be
mentioned in the trailers and reviews you know you're in that
territory). Many qualities of this movie (including the screenplay, the
directing and editing, and the superb original score) had to come
together for it to be as good as it is -- and they do.
<|_=00=_|>
Murder. Car chases. Scandal. Rape. Conspiracy. Blackmail. Revenge.
These are usually the key words to a suspenseful drama, but in this
case are applied to a dark comedy that is relentless, chaotic, and just
as funny as advertised. Horrible Bosses is the type of movie that would
make Danny DeVito proud, as it blends a fun plot full of fun twists
with standout comedic performances, plenty of surprises, and the
inability to ever become predictable. Unlike most recent R-rated
comedies, this film is raunchy without truly crossing the line, profane
without becoming redundant and outrageous without becoming tedious.
Don't look now but this movie is legitimately funny, and among the
better comedies released in quite some time.

Horrible Bosses is about three average joes (Jason Bateman, Charlie
Day, Jason Sudeikis) that are stuck on their job with awful bosses
(Kevin Spacey, Jennifer Aniston, Colin Ferrell) all for different
reasons. After all three reach their breaking point, they decide that
their lives would be better if their bosses ceased to exist. What
follows is their hilarious efforts in finding a way to get it done
without getting caught. The premise was promising and thanks to a fresh
script by Michael Markovitz, John Daly, and Jonathan Goldstein, the
potential was indeed deliveredalthough not in the ways you'd expect.

The cast is hands-down the standout reason why this movie works. As a
matter of fact its also its one minor flaw because we have tons of
talent that were not utilized enough because some of the performances
were so hilarious in the minimal material given. The bosses themselves
were convincingly awful, especially the always-reliable Kevin Spacey as
this sadistic, manipulative, and extremely cruel president of a
company. Colin Ferrell and Jennifer Aniston step out of their usual
roles and surprisingly deliver plenty of laughs with their own cruelly
aggressive mannerisms. The main three also provided plenty of laughs
and played off each other perfectly well, with Charlie Day being the
best of the three. Day's experience with the mildly-dark "It's Always
Sunny in Philadelphia" definitely shows off here, as his whiny and
high-pitched voice perfectly matches his character persona and offers
the most laughs and one-liners.

Seth Gordon's resume as director has been an interesting one; ranging
from the enjoyable Fistful of Quarters to the weak-weak Four
Christmases. In here, he keeps the pace constantly quick, constantly
throws a crazy scenario to pit our heroes in, and never gives you a
chance to breathe and realize how preposterous this movie really is.
The movie's raunchiness is matched by its grim sense of humoryou need
a dark strong heart to laugh at some of the mean-spirited shtick that
is embedded in the 100 minute timeframe. In this movie, nobody is safe,
and you never know just what might happen next. Unpredictability is
essential in comedy, and the best part of Horrible Bosses is how it can
remain one step ahead of you while still giving plenty to laugh about.
We are laughing at our heroes but secretly we are definitely rooting
for them too. Yes folks, you will secretly be hoping that they do
indeed do the dirty deed.

Bottom Line: The talent pool runs deep here, and is the main reason why
the film works. Luckily for us and the cast, they also got to work with
great pacing, a fun script, and fresh dark humor that can inject life
in this dismal summer season. The underrated talent of Sudekis, Day,
and Bateman continue to quietly shine in Hollywood as they are
hilarious from the first second to the closing credits. But let's not
forget the triple-villain team of Aniston, Spacey, and Ferrell, which
infused even more humor (and craziness) into the comedy. To sum it up,
the film works in its dark manner, as Horrible Bosses never takes
itself seriously, but you'll be too deep into laughter to notice the
difference. The movie is dark as the movie earned its R rating easily,
but if you can handle it you are in for a uproarious ride. Keep an eye
on this one, as it is one of the best summer surprises in recent years.
<|_=00=_|>
Those who think Hollywood is no longer capable of creating a funny
comedy for adults need not worry, as "Horrible Bosses" is proof that
that increasingly rare phenomenon can still happen.

"Horrible Bosses" is one of those comedies like the classic "Ruthless
People," in which an outrageous and dark premise works because of good
writing and an ensemble that knows exactly how to handle the material
for maximum comedic value. Jason Bateman, Jason Sudeikis and Charlie
Day play the requisite straight man, alpha male and dumbass,
respectively, that male buddy comedies need, while Kevin Spacey,
Jennifer Aniston and Colin Farrell (sadly underused) play the titular
bosses. All of them have a field day with their roles, and Aniston
especially stands out because of the film's decision to cast her
against type as a slutty, foul-mouthed sex kitten; you can almost hear
Aniston sighing with relief as she gets to play something other than
the cute-as-a-button girl next door.

As with most comedies, whether or not you think "Horrible Bosses" is
funny will probably depend simply on whether or not you think the
actors are funny. Charlie Day, for example, will likely drive some
people crazy -- I thought he was hilarious.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>
Horrible Bosses is too crazy for a dark comedy. We all know killing
your boss is a cruel idea but in this film they're making it a joke.
Despite from its cruelness, Horrible Bosses isn't horrible at all. It's
undeniably hilarious. Too much fun by the performance of the cast.
Horrible Bosses doesn't have a lot of gumption to its dark premise but
it's all about the comedy. This is just a little comedy that you will
enjoy all the time.

The beginning of the film shows how horrible their bosses are. It's
pretty reasonable why they wanted to kill them. But what's fascinating
here is how the main three had a perfect chemistry to their horrible
bosses. Especially when it comes to Charlie Day and Jennifer Aniston.
Charlie Day made his role too innocent to get sexualized by Jennifer
Aniston. He's like a child being harassed by a pedophile. Jason Bateman
plays a hardworking man and Kevin Spacey is teasing him like a bully.
Kevin Spacey is perfect for this role. Jason Sudeikis and Colin Farrel
does their thing.

The entire film is all about the laughs and the fun. Nothing else to
say about the filmmaking. The movie is just funny. It doesn't have a
knack to get serious in some parts. Its darkness is always hilarious.
By the way this is a comedy. It's supposed to fun all the time. Yes,
like even murder is funny.

Horrible Bosses is not the kind of film that tries to be the best. It's
just a little fun comedy. It's a movie that you'll still enjoy even if
you've seen it many times. It's funny enough. It's clever enough. Most
of the fun goes to the performances. At least Horrible Bosses is one of
those better comedies that we are getting recently. It's just fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie! It kept me laughing through the whole movie. I
loved that Colin Farrell and Jennifer Aniston both played characters
outside their norm. In fact, when I first say Bobby, it took me a
moment and another scene with Bobby for me to realize that it was
Colin! I read that Tom Cruise, Matthew McConaughy, and Ashton Kutcher
were all considered for this movie and I am so glad that they weren't
part of this movie. All of the actors in this film were perfect for
this movie and the acting was superb! This is a movie that should be
watched for the entertainment factor and when you just need a great
laugh. Plus, who can't relate to having a horrible boss and dream of
getting rid of them? If you enjoyed this movie with Jason Bateman, then
I recommend that you watch The Switch, which he also stars in and is
another greatly entertaining movie.
<|_=00=_|>
2 words can describe Horrible Bosses and those two words are Must See!
Horrible Bosses is definitively a change from those predictable comedy
movies and you will get your money's worth if you go and see it.

The cast is this film is just so extraordinary it's to hard to pick one
favorite. I loved Charlie Day's character in this film as he is always
fun to watch. Jennifer Aniston's character was so sexy to watch that
any young man would show some interest. As it was said before it was
good to see her do something new and she nailed every sexy/dirty line.
Another character I loved partially because he usually never does
comedies was Colin Farrells as the coke head boss. He really went out
did himself for it and it shows.

The script in this movie was so well done and had some really raunchy
and crude things in there but it was acted and portrayed so well it
made it even the more better. The dirty and sexual dialog was
hilarious, it was hard not to laugh and it showed they weren't afraid
to hold anything back.

This movie is a great summer flick and I highly recommend this comedy.
The cast and their characters will really get you going and they might
shock you a little but it will be all worth it in the end.
<|_=00=_|>
There have already been two major comedy releases this summer, in the
form of The Hangover Part 2 and Bridesmaids, but Horrible Bosses puts
both of those to shame. With ease.

Director Seth Gordon (The King of Kong) has put together an absolutely
fantastic dark comedy, full of hilarious dialog, raunchy humor, and an
exceptionally strong cast. The real treat of the film, much like 2009's
The Hangover, is the in the execution. So many aspects of the film come
together in just the right way, with exceptional comedic timing, that
you simply can't help but to enjoy the ride.

Horrible Bosses stars Jason Bateman, Charlie Day, and Jason Sudeikis as
three good friends who all have the same problem: they hate their
bosses. Albeit for different reasons, of course. Bateman's boss, Dave
Harken (Kevin Spacey), is an egotistical jerk. Day's boss, Julia Harris
(Jennifer Anniston), is a sex-craved maniac, while Sudeikis' new boss,
Bobby Pellitt (Colin Farrell) is a coke head. The film gives the
audience plenty of good reasons to hate these bosses, which helps to
relate to the friends' idea of murdering them.

What starts out as an off-joke one night between friends blossoms into
something more dark and sinister than one would think, with the three
friends actually going out of their way to dispose of one another's
bosses. They can't handle their work environment, and the film's script
gives very good reasons as to why switching jobs really isn't an
option. This is key in relating to and believing in the script.

Despite what the trailers may lead you to believe, most of the time
within the film really isn't spent establishing the murders. Instead,
the jokes are found within the concept, giving the three actors plenty
of time to entertain you. You're not watching three men plot to murder
their bosses; you're watching three men ponder the plot of how to
murder their bosses. There's a fine distinction here, and the script
does a great job of establishing the difference.

Seth Gordon does a fantastic job directing here, adding a layer of
intensity to the dark subject matter. The script is nearly perfect,
offering the right amount of dark and crude humor with a great amount
of solid, unforgettable laughs.

Outside of those two concepts, Horrible Bosses really shines in two
great ways. The three stars of the film, Bateman, Day, and Sudeikis,
have fantastic chemistry here. The three play off of one another in
such a manner that you can't help but laugh. Each is bringing a
drastically different character to life (though arguably Bateman is
still playing the same man he plays in every movie), and their
interactions are key to the audience enjoying the film. The group truly
works well together, much like a great ensemble should, and we only
hope a sequel is quickly green-lit.

The other amazing component of the film is the supporting cast, which
couldn't be more perfect. Spacey is clearly enjoying his dark,
disturbing role as an office jerk, spending much of the film
steam-rolling anyone who gets in his way. Every so often you can even
catch a slight hint in Spacey's eyes that he's enjoying himself. Maybe
a little too much.

Colin Farrell completely disappears into the role of Bobby. His
despicable manners and attitude toward other human beings is absolutely
hilarious. He's nearly unrecognizable in the part, and it's fantastic
to see a role where Farrell is out of his comfort zone.

And last, but not least, is Jennifer Anniston's Julia Harris, the
sexually harassing, foul-mouthed and loathsome creature. She spends
much of her time on screen making one sex joke after another, and it's
great to see her playing a character completely unique to her past.
Horrible Bosses is easily Anniston's best film to date, though that
might not be saying much.

If you've enjoyed movies like The Hangover or Bridesmaids, you'll love
Horrible Bosses. It is simply the best comedy so far this summer, and
deserves to be seen in theaters. It's a must-own once it hits retail
shelves. Horrible Bosses is one movie not to miss this summer.

Our Rating: 4 out of 5 Reels
<|_=00=_|>
This is a good comedy with actors such as Kevin Spacey, Jennifer
Aniston and Jamie Foxx. Actually all the cast is suitable and funny.

It's about 3 friends who have unsolvable problems with their bosses (if
you count Jennifer Aniston wanting to have dirty sex with you, a
problem). They decide to do something about them and all hell breaks
loose.

The script is well-developed. The jokes are impossible but funny
nevertheless.

The actors are funny and serious at the same time. Overall:
recommended.
