
Did those who've written glowing reviews of Gravity see the same movie
I did? Look, I wanted to like this flick, I really did. And I don't
want to rag on it, but if you're going to make a dramatic science
thriller, you had better get it right or expect to catch it from the
smart people. Despite the cosmic setting, the only star I can give
Gravity is for the computer generated graphics.That said, this is not a
movie for intellectuals and those of a scientific bent will be sorely
disappointed. What made Ron Howard's Apollo 13 so gripping was its
dramatic realism and superb acting. Unfortunately, none of those
adjectives applies to Gravity, with the possible exception of some
drama. However, for thinkers, effective drama requires an intellectual
investment in the credibility of the story, the characters and the
interaction between them. Intelligent humans need to believe that what
is being depicted could actually happen. Unfortunately, the events
depicted in Gravity are likely to alienate anyone with an above average
IQ. Once one has acknowledged the impressive graphics, any anticipation
of emotional investment is quickly dashed to smithereens by the
unbelievably vapid and inane dialog. It is painfully obvious that
someone with a double-digit scientific IQ appears to have awoken one
morning and haphazardly decided to write a "space movie". The physics
are off, the events highly improbable. The entire story demands a
suspension of belief in reality. Worst of all, the dialog and
interaction between the characters is so juvenile that anyone with a
brain gets the immediate impression that the project is the product of
sophomoric show-biz types who think that the way to move the product is
to recycle hackneyed clichés, shiny objects and big explosions.
Bullock's character, Dr. Ryan Stone, is so unprepared and emotionally
disabled by adversity that it is impossible to believe that she would
have been selected as a mission specialist. Yet, she manages to flit
from one space wreck to another and yet another. She consults operation
manuals in Russian and, later, Chinese, yet she is heard muttering
"eeny meeny miney mo" while haphazardly pushing control buttons like
some clueless chimpanzee. The space vehicle's communication equipment
fails to pick up "Houston Control", yet, miraculously, is able to
receive a bizarre Chinese comedy and howling dogs, which Bullock's
character feels compelled to imitate. Clooney's character, Matt
Kowalski, is such a clichéd hero that he is depicted as nonchalantly
jesting with the hysterical Dr. Stone while he himself is drifting into
a desperately life-ending situation. We are expected to believe that,
despite having trained intimately together for this mission, these
characters address each other by their formal titles and make clichéd
announcements back to a non-responsive mission control. Kowalksi has
waited until he's drifting to his death to ask where Dr. Stone is from
and if she has any kids. Finally, director Cuaron makes a supremely
lame attempt at cinematic iconography depicting Bullock floating in a
fetal position, a la Kubrick's Space Odessey. And after having had such
a bad day and having plunged to Earth in a flaming meteor-like reentry,
Stone emerges, unscathed and barefoot mind you, from the ocean onto an
idyllic, uninhabited beach like some primal human emerging from the
sea. Now, I feel bad about feeling bad about this movie. And I respect
Ms. Bullock and Mr. Clooney as actors. However, it is my humble opinion
that actors must assume some responsibility for the roles they accept.
This movie was so cringe-worthy that the only reason I sat through it
was to see how ridiculous it would get. Alas, other than the black hole
into whose abyss was irretrievably sucked away any hope I once had for
discovering intelligent life in this movie, "Gravity" lacked gravitas.
<|_=00=_|>
The big "spoiler" is that this is a big budget Hollywood move with a
preposterous plot and lots of special effects. The problem here is that
nobody could possible survive through any of this, and the special
effects become a substitute for any meaningful plot. Even taken on its
own terms, the movie makes no sense. Sandra Bullock has become an
astronaut but lacks even the basic skills for that occupation. She
tells us she always crash landed the flight simulator, and we find her
thumbing through an instruction manual about the size of the
instructions for a DVD player to figure out how to safely pilot a space
craft back to earth. She even picks the buttons eeny, meany, miney, mo
style. Add to this the contrived scenario that she has not only lost a
child but also is "revived" and given a reason to live by the now dead
George Clooney appearing in a dream sequence. And how great a movie can
it really be where there is only one character (and almost no dialog)
on camera for most of the film. The special effects are impressive, but
what they've obviously done is use computer graphics to create all the
weightless effects. As such, things remain weightless even when they
shouldn't be, and you eventually become more interested in looking for
the screw-ups than watching the movie. Please, please, please. Will
someone make a movie with a clever plot that keeps you guessing to the
end and with interesting and passably believable characters.
<|_=00=_|>
In Space no one can hear you  "ask for your money back!"

Disclaimer: Spoiler Alert - its horrible.

I just left the movie theatre angry. I cant think of a time that's ever
happened to me. 

Yes I may know more than the average Joe regarding manned spaceflight,
after 30 years of writing about it. That doesn't mean the movie makers
have to insult movie goers with the lack of any sense of reality. No
wonder people don't think man landed on the moon.

From start to finish there were blatant factual errors in everything
from the laws of Physics, Engineering and Orbital Mechanics to the
unidentifiable views of the earth. I recognized two views of the earth,
one of Florida and Cuba, the other the Nile in Egypt. It seems the
producers decided to mess with those as well, good luck recognizing
them.

I stopped counting errors after 50, by that point I was considering
leaving the theatre, a few others managed to escape. 

I know at least one NASA Astronaut bragged about making a contribution
to the film as a technical adviser. I wont name her because its
embarrassing enough for her to know she did that. I always wonder why
movie makers use Astronauts as tech advisors when they have no
intention of actually using their contributions.

Im not going to quote any of the script, why waste your time. It's a
ranting monologue from an Astronaut with all of six months training at
NASA to conduct an EVA at Hubble and who addresses her crew mates by
their formal rank and last name only. Oh and magically during her six
month training to fly on the Shuttle she managed to get a little Soyuz
pilot training under her belt, very fortunate for her.

Finally, the movie is poorly written, almost ad-libbed, poorly
researched, with a story line that has no connection to reality. I
wouldn't watch this a second time if I was paid to. At the end I was
expecting to see a 2,000 year old arm from the Statue of Liberty on a
beach, seriously. 

For a more representative vision of Spaceflight you may choose to watch
the Simpsons episode where Homer and an inanimate carbon rod, save the
Space Shuttle.

I highly do not recommend this movie unless you download it for free
off Pirate Bay or get someone else to pay for you.

FYI  Im not a movie reviewer and I typed this out in five minutes,
because I want my money back.
<|_=00=_|>
Visually, Gravity is unlike what we have seen on a cinema screen before
and arguably it has one of the best uses of 3D in a movie. The setting
is spectacular and the premise is inventive.

On every other front,the movie falters badly. Once you get over the
initial wonderment surrounding the beautiful visuals, the chinks start
showing up. Overall the script is very weak. Apparently the Russians
bomb their own satellite by mistake and the debris is flying around at
bullet speed, smashing everything in its way. Now upon hearing an
emergency evacuation request, Kowalski (who has been wasting his
precious thrusters all this while, floating around, spouting inane
dialogs) orders Ryan (Bullock) to disengage from whatever she is
repairing. Apparently Ryan has six months of training (only) and fails
to be responsive and then the trouble starts.

We come to know that Ryan has some head issues surrounding the death of
her daughter as the writer felt a dire need to give Ryan some sort of
existential problem in her head to make her character feel more human.
Apart from this minor bit, nothing is presented in terms of character
development for any other protagonists. Who is Kowalski? Who are the
people who died in their space pods? No idea.

Then the whole manufactured sense of suspense. Every time Ryan gets
anywhere near the Air Lock (she does it three times), the debris
presents itself like on cue every single time. Then a fire in a space
station, then running out of Oxygen, then something then something.
It's fine that they used some standard tricks but it all seems so
manufactured and mechanical by the numbers suspense.

Also at times I couldn't shrug off the feeling that what they are
showing on screen is not actually factual. Do the controls on various
international space stations have their national languages on them?
Really? Maybe they do but seems hard to believe when 20$ phones are
built with custom User interfaces with changeable languages, why have
your billion dollar space stations with Russian or Chinese characters
on your buttons totally beats me. Oh manufactured suspense owing to the
whole can't-understand-this-thing machinery.

The the dialogs when they come are nothing to write home about. Ryan
has a hallucinatory moment when she talks to herself following some
Mandarin Chatter on the radio which is cringe worthy. I wont even
mention the in-your-face allegory about rebirth which is there for to
make the movie seem deeper than it is.

So what works for the movie? It's a cross between an IMAX documentary
with some suspense elements thrown it which makes it look path
breaking.

But it's not. Not a bad watch but nothing to rave about either.
<|_=00=_|>
The short version: Gravity is a real stinker ... what's all the hype?
Clichéd, BORING,technically lame, not worth 3-D, and beyond Bullock's
abilities ... Don't waste your $$.

The longer version: WHY is this movie receiving so much hype? What a
LOSER! Not only is it BORING, but dishonors the brave men and women who
are REAL astronauts. Sorry, Neil Armstrong ... not even a BABY STEP for
mankind in this stinker.

Every possible cliché is at work here: the damsel in distress, the
"strip" of the damsel, the depression of the damsel, the refusal of the
damsel to obey orders, the damsel repeatedly wailing "what do I do
nowwwwww?", etc. How this lame-o "brilliant medical engineer" EVER
qualified to be an astronaut is not explained (must be due to all the
budget cut-backs). 

Similarly, the other "astronaut," George Clooney, a know-it-all wise
guy, suicidally releases himself into deep space early on for no good
reason ... so we're stuck with Ms. Lame-o and weak special effects for
most of the movie ...

Said damsel is the flyweight actress Sandra Bullock -- whining,
preceding every other line with a snurfff (Best Boy! get that woman
some Benadryl!), and heavy breathing sum up her portrayal. You wouldn't
want HER along as a member of the team, well, anywhere ... even Disney
World ... 

WhyEVER would George Clooney lend his name to such bunkum?

Don't waste your money ... and the 3-D ... laughable -- not EVEN worth
it ...
<|_=00=_|>
In segments, Gravity has marvelous special effects--truly a remarkable
achievement. The weak parts of the movie are the contrivances that link
these segments together, along with unbelievably bad dialog. (Maybe
someone will be brave enough to register the contrivances formally as
"goofs" here on IMDb?)

No way could astronauts from the shuttle ever reach the International
Space Station, but Gravity asks us to believe both this could happen
and that an astronaut could then go on to reach a Chinese space
station, too. These objects just don't orbit
anywhere--ANYWHERE!!!!--near close enough to each other to make these
events even remotely possible. Not only are their orbits vastly
different in altitude and trajectory, it would be highly unlikely for
them all to be near each other in the same orbit. Oh, I almost forgot
to mention that Gravity also asks us to believe that the orbit of the
space debris intersected with that of the shuttle and was synchronized
with it.

No way could Ryan Stone figure out how to operate a Soyuz capsule in a
few seconds of reading the manuals. No way could Ryan Stone figure out
how to operate the Chinese capsule just by poking around.

Of lesser failures: Space debris traveling 20,000 miles an hour
relative to an observer is not going to be visible except *possibly* as
an indistinct cloud that passes by so fast the "observer" won't know
what hit them.

For all of the CGI effort, I had hoped the Earth would look more
realistic and (naturally) beautiful.

In closing, the special effects were great but the weak story relied on
too many absurd contrivances and the script contained no redeeming
dialog (sorry, George). On balance: 7 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all there is NOTHING I repeat NOTHING that warrants the cost
of a 3D ticket.

Second, this movie is boring and overly predictable.

Third, there is nothing in this movie that makes you want to care that
suddenly this "mission specialist" played by Bullock is stuck up in
space alone.

Fourth, where points could have been made to make you want to care
about anyone in the movie they don't bother. Clooney's character keeps
telling "Mission Control" stories for the most part that they've heard
about his life. We haven't heard them and you never do. His character
is only concerned about getting a record for the longest un-tethered
space walk.

Fifth, Bullocks character acts like a buffoon. She "claims" to only
have had 6 months of training. Based on what she says she would have
been disqualified due to her questionable mental state after (years
before)her daughter dies from some play ground accident at her day
care. Now I like Sandra Bullock, but this performance is not worthy of
an Oscar at all.

Sixth, She "magically" makes(this is because she spent over 5 minutes
breathing in pure carbon monoxide, if this had been real she'd be dead)
it to the Russian Soius Space capsule. She then using pictures in books
can magically use buttons in Russian capsule to make it work, though
claimed she trained on the simulator for them, she still needs the
books to operate these things. She then "magically" get an empty fueled
Soius capsule over to the Chinese station. Which is identical to the
Soviet but in Chinese instead (this is probably fact as China bought
their space station tech from Russia)and again using picture books she
gets the thing to work.

Seventh, Drama and suspense, WHERE, you are told that the satellite
debris will be around ever 90 minutes, the astronauts set their timers
for the count down so again that's NEVER a surprise not only that, it's
camera shot debris coming, look at watch. NO suspense.

Eighth, The ending, Specialist Ryan escapes in the Chinese capsule and
gets back to earth, crashes in to the water and you are left with her
walking on the beach. That's it you just wasted 100 minutes for this
pointless that could be done in 30 minutes.

NOT worth your time or money.
<|_=00=_|>
The box office takings and the almost universal acclaim from the
critics for this movie - see eg
http://www.mrqe.com/movie_reviews/gravity-m100091079 would suggest that
this is a must see - well here is a contrary view.

This may be from an age perspective (I was at school watching TV when
that Armstrong guy sang 'I was walking on the moon one day' in July
1969) - and for the first 20 minutes we have a similar light hearted
banter from G. Clooney, who while being highly space savvy is, unlike
that original space larrikin, just plain annoying as he tries to
emulate past heroes as he calms and guides S.Bullock through a
predictable and ongoing series of high impact incidents. A handsome
show off, with a serious penchant for rescuing damsels in distress,
sits naturally with our George, whatever the state of his pulse.

But the movie is really about Bullock's character, and she is an actor
capable of both great comedy and feeling (often within the same work)
but here she is just not believable with the exception of the initial
panic scenes that do get everyone's heart racing for a short time. In
dealing with loss she has suffered on earth and in facing eternity in
space, neither portrayal is credible. 

Weaver in Aliens or Hanks in Apollo 13 - those were stories that really
got to you (well, me anyway) but at the end of this its all a bit so
what?

A very honorable exception for the cinematography, especially if you
see it in the IMAX or 3D versions which really do give you a new
perspective on space - but well deployed technology alone does not a
movie make.

I give it 4 out of 10 - slightly disappointed at something that could
have been so much better. I appreciate most of the world seems to
disagree with my view.
<|_=00=_|>
Most of the other reviewers who gave it 1/10 have already nailed it.
Yeah, the CG was beautiful, but the story and physics were awful.

But also, what was up with the "woman of science" going all religious
when faced with death? "oh lord if you are up there... oh wait". What's
more she always seemed to need a man around to tell her what to do.
What does she do when she doesn't have his guidance? Tries to kill
herself. Great.

Sandras character just spent the entire time messing things up. You
could cut together her bumbling about, add yakety sax and a laugh
track, and title it "Sandra Bullock is a klutz in space!"

And don't get me started on the imagery. They were really trying to hit
home on that fetus thing... that shot went on forever. How dumb did
they think the audience was? Pretty dumb I'm guessing if they all
believed the reviews and threw their money at it. Yes we get it, she
was reborn and overcame the grief of losing her daughter. But now we're
secretly hoping she gets eaten by a camel or something. That would have
made it worth the 90 minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is absolutely stunning from the get go. I can't remember
ever being pulled into a film so completely and thoroughly, and I don't
think I've seen a more beautiful film. Its a pretty intense ninety
minutes, with Bullock's character constantly battling one catastrophe
after another, and all of it is amazing to see. The plot is pretty
straight forward (see it, I won't talk about that), but its the way
they pull it off that makes it absolutely worth seeing. Thanks to some
incredible CGI, great direction, and solid acting, the movie is an
absolute must see. I'm normally not a fan of 3D movies (I hate wearing
the stupid glasses), but this movie uses it wonderfully and to great
effect. I would strongly recommend seeing it in an IMAX theatre if you
get the chance - if there was ever a movie made for 3d IMAX, this is
it.
