
At first I wasn't looking forward to watch Table 19.I assume that you
already know the plot if you are reading user's reviews but you are not
sure if you should watch the movie or not so , I am just going to tell
you not be afraid of the poor rating and just watch the movie.Full of
funny and dramatic moments and unexpected twists that reveal slowly the
character's background I believe that Table 19 is a great movie for
both drama and comedy lovers. All the actors give excellent
performances and make you feel closer and more attached to the
characters. It was just a great film and I really hope that it gets the
reputation that it deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
I confess I find weddings tedious at the best of times but we always go
with a sense of optimism.

Anna Kendrick's character was clearly on the fence about attending but
decided to be brave and attend. She is seated at the table of people
who were surprised to get an invitation and we learn that she is the
best man's ex-girlfriend and former Maid of Honour for this event.

Nobody beautiful, rich or influential is at table 19. It turns out they
are all at a turning point in their lives and the story evolves about
their various crisis.

These people are all amazing in their on right and their stories are
interesting (far more interesting than any the beautiful people have).#

The soundtrack is well chosen and the spark of sensuality provided when
Huck and Eloise dance is well done.

The wedding isn't dressed up as a great event - its an ordinary
American wedding and thankfully, there is a limited amount of it.

I can't recommend it highly enough, in a time when films have no script
at all
<|_=00=_|>
Trailers are notorious in over-promising for movies that under-deliver.
But every now and then, one pops up that does the opposite. The trailer
for Table 19 (2017) gives the impression of a lightweight romantic
comedy with a touch of slapstick, all framed around a wedding. Despite
being critically panned by many, there is more to this unexpectedly
entertaining low-profile film than meets the eye.

The heroine is Eloise (Anna Kendrick) who, against her better
judgement, accepts a wedding invitation knowing she is persona
non-grata with the bridal party. She was recently dumped by the bride's
brother, who is now the best man, and she is suddenly no longer the
bride's best friend. She was the chief helper with the reception
planning and knows who is at every table and why they are here. Her
companions on Table 19 comprise a lovable granny-type, two oddballs,
and a quarrelling married couple. They were all expected to decline
their invitation but still send a gift, and that alone is a recipe for
humour and satire. Their distance from the bridal table and proximity
to the toilets quickly establishes their lowly social status and the
comic sketches play on social awkwardness. The thread of continuity is
through Eloise and her manhunts. The standard sit-com one-liners and
the obligatory near-catastrophe with a wedding cake are neither
original nor particularly funny, but the situation develops a warm
emotional undercurrent that is unexpectedly touching.

One of the interesting things about this film is the difference between
its plot and story. The plot is standard wedding reception comedy which
laughs at the marginalisation of unwanted guests. On the other hand,
the story explores why the Table 19'ers are together. It offers insight
into their lives, their personalities, and the emotional hurt caused by
being placed on the social fringe. The best part of the film is when
the offended "randoms" leave the reception for a while to console each
other. Through flashbacks we get the back-story to their invitations
which range from pathetic to comic. For example, the granny-type really
believed she was invited because the bride fondly remembered her first
baby-sitter, but the bride barely knows who she is. There is also a
wannabe trying to lose his virginity, a weird guy straight out of
prison, and a couple who are far from an inspiring example of a loving
marriage.

Anna Kendrick plays the perfect balance between awkward, aggrieved, and
aggressive, and the randoms are standard comic stereotypes. But while
our eyes are on Elosie, the warmth of the story come from her table
companions. The gags are at snicker level rather than belly laughs and
the cinematography is colourful and cluttered as wedding receptions
often are. There is no shortage of embarrassing moments as Eloise
stalks her men, both old and new, and the final scenes rise through
melodrama to operatic farce. But this film offers a fresh take on
standard rom-com themes in amusing and entertaining waysÂ…. and it might
make you think twice if you need to create a seating plan.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been reviewing films off and on for about five years. And if there
is one thing I've learned about criticism is that the vast,
unchallenged mean between absolutely great movies and downright
terrible ones hides a lot of non-committal fence sitting. I'm guilty of
it myself; in today's age of instant self-gratification, it's easy to
cobble together a knee-jerk opinion based on someone else's ideas.
Problem is those ideas, whether valid or not, sometimes creates a
subterfuge of undeserved hype or undeserved vitriol depending on the
circumstance. They feed a cycle of wafer-thin subjectivity masquerading
as authoritative proof of something's worth. This is why, for example a
movie like Equilibrium (2002) can be seen as something more than a
splashy Matrix (1999) rip-off while movies like Mystery Team (2009) are
swept under the rug.

So it is with Table 19, a movie no one will likely see because the
critical consensus is so bad that it's created its own negative
feedback loop. Table 19 takes place over the course of several hours of
a wedding reception at a rustic hotel lodge. As the happy couple
celebrates their new marriage amid friends and family, a small group of
strangers sit at the back table, forcing uncomfortable banter and
gracelessly ignoring the reason for their position in the back. Among
them are the argumentative Kepps (Kudlow and Robinson), the dotty Ms.
Jo (Squibb), gawky teen Renzo (Revolori), distant cousin Walter
(Merchant) and Eloise (Kendrick) the disgraced ex-Maid of Honor who was
dumped by the Best Man (Russell).

To say Table 19 is "ridiculous and a mess," is a bit of an
understatement. As critics rightly point out, the pacing is stop and
go, the editing is slapdash and the high-concept simply doesn't have
the wherewithal to make it through a feature-length movie. Once the
initial awkward niceties are flushed under the force of the first big
narrative reveal, the film descends into a checklist of soapy
plot-points and lazy character short hands. Much like 8 Heads in a
Duffel Bag (a similarly imperfect ensemble farce), Table 19 klutzily
mixes its farcical elements with broad, sweeping story setups and has
them slosh about until the runtime wears out. On top of it all, the
tone shifts wildly depending on who you're following at the time.

Thing is, I actually liked 8 Heads in a Duffel Bag, and I liked Table
19 too for much the same reason. The characters, as broad as they may
be at times never ceased to entertain; Stephen Merchant's portrayal as
a familial pariah Franken-walking through the banquet hall is worth the
admission price alone. As are Renzo's far too honest conversations with
his mother (Martindale in a superb unseen role) which mostly consist of
him rolling his eyes while she pushes him to "get laid already." Behind
the Kepps' increasingly hostile quibbling and Grandma Jo's insistence
that she'll be remembered (just you wait), lays a unified feeling of
melancholy.

That feeling of melancholy along with some solid comedic setups and
payoffs permeate through the film's cosmetic faults. Every time you're
distracted by an awkward cut or taken aback by some of the more hammy
moments, the film quickly lulls you back with its quixotic charm.

Helping to dry up this mess and put it back into a nice looking bucket
is the relentless Anna Kendrick who by now has turned the neurotic
jilted girl archetype into a symbol of quasi-empowerment. While she
wins no brownie points for that here, there's something near noble
about the way she throws herself into the fray. She easily elevates an
already stellar cast and sells the hell out of the movies main conceit.

Much like the twangy banjo version of Pachabel's Canon in D that plays
over the film's title sequence, Table 19 is a unique version of a very
old cultural tradition. It's certainly not the best version of what it
could be but with more than a handful of charming performances, this
delightful little farce deserves a little better than the wedding
inspired japes it's been getting from critics. Perhaps it's a case of
ugly duckling syndrome on my part, but I'm going to go ahead and say "I
Do" to this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Sure the plot and script might have been a tad predictable, but, it was
an unexpected charmer. A wonderful cast and fun script with many
chuckles. It is NOT Separate Tables but it certainly was worthwhile
viewing a nice little light comedy that is perfect on a summers night.
Table 19 contained the misfits of a wedding but eventually had the most
fun and impact on their wedding they were the last to be invited at.
<|_=00=_|>
and somewhat intelligent romcon. I don't know why it didn't get any
love from critics, especially with the young and veteran talents of
Anna Kendrick and Lisa Kudrow . Solid seven. . . .For peeps who want a
dramedy as opposed to a laugh riot. "Wedding Crashers," it ain't.

Word of caution: It's a little rocky through the first twenty minutes,
but the last three quarters of the film make that set up well
worthwhile. Since it's an ensemble piece, there's some scenes well
spent sketching all the characters seated in the no-man's land of table
19. But this investment will pay off sweetly in the end.
<|_=00=_|>
So I loved this movie! It's a brilliant single setting-ish script about
various "reject" guests at a wedding table with Anna Kendrick in the
lead. It's like "The Breakfast Club" of wedding movies.

The script is witty, intelligent and the attention to detail for the
set, specifically with the wedding band and their selection of songs,
was sublime. Bravo to the Duplass brothers on pulling together a very
well-made and well-thought out film.

Lisa Kudrow shows she still has great talent and her deadpan comedy is
still funny. And the pairing of Kudrow with Craig Robinson as her
husband was genius, they actually pair off of each other really great.

Anna Kendrick's character Elsie dreads going to her former best
friend/former boyfriend's sister's wedding. She meets the other rejects
at the table and explains the pecking order of the wedding tables.
Elsie meets a dashing stranger Huck, confronts the former
boyfriend/bride's brother, and the Table 19 guests have quite the day
with unexpected twists.

Highly recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
The awkwardness moment of going to a wedding and sitting in a table
with other people that may or may not be close to the groom/bride and
they chat about how they know them and if they are even being
recognized or forgettable type of guests. Table 19 is terrible, it is
unfunny, tries to be awkward and shine with the characters but fails to
even capture the attention. The film opens with Eloise (Anna Kendrick)
hesitating about accepting the invitation to her oldest friend
Francine's wedding who her brother Teddy (Wyatt Russell) is now her ex.
He dumps her because she always belittled his intelligence. She goes
back and forth with the invitation by saying no than yes, even almost
setting the card on fire. But she ends up going to the wedding, even
after she had helped planned the event and set up seating arrangements.
She ends up sitting on table 19 with a bunch of other people she does
not know. At the table, there is Jerry (Craig Robinson) and Bina (Lisa
Kudrow) who barely knows the groom and bride but are in a struggling
marriage. Then, there is Jo (June Squibb), who was the first nanny to
the bride but her entire family forgot about who she was. Then, Walter
(Stephen Merchant) who seems out of place and awkward with every
conversation about himself not adding up. And Renzo (Tony Revolori) was
invited to go cause his mother told him he needs to find a girlfriend
or get laid to become a man. Eloise is dwelling on her last break up
until she meets a wedding crasher Huck (Thomas Cocquerel) who flirts
and dances with her but bails out of the wedding before he gets caught.
Teddy keeps reminding Eloise that she should go home and not cause a
scene. 

The film could have worked with its humor and the different awkward
characters they introduced. However, none of the humor in the film was
funny. It was stupid, it was awkward, and unfunny. The editing with
each scene feels like a mash up with its dull humor. Every character
had their own conflict and sharing the same table in a wedding that no
one seems interested in being there. When every thing tries to resolve
itself in the end, it seems forced when characters forget about what
their problem really was. 

I liked the cast ensemble. Except every ones performance was
forgettable from a lackluster script that failed to even develop any of
these characters. The plot was pointless, well if you would even count
it as a plot which it had none. The direction was dull, terribly edited
together in order to try to get laughs. There is nothing positive or
funny about this poorly executed comedy movie. Overall, Table 19 is
horrible. From its terrible editing of lots awkward moments, unfunny
humor, poor characters development, boring script and direction. I
would not recommend the film at all unless its on cable TV.
<|_=00=_|>
the film with that cast - Anna Kendrick, Lisa Kudrow, Craig Robinson,
Toni Revolori being some of my favorites - could really have been fun
and truly enjoyable. But a good cast doesn't make a good script. I
wonder how tailored each role is for the cast, I'm guessing apart from
Anna's role not so much? Not sold on the bulk of the film / the main
pairing much so that was particularly not enjoyable for me. However,
June Squibb was lovely and Stephen Merchant was a welcome oddball
(though the humor overall of the film doesn't really land). Conclusions
for other story lines were not really satisfying and there was
cheesiness all through out.
<|_=00=_|>
Duplass Brother highbrow writing is usually worth a watch. I was happy
with the result not the wedding comedy I had expected, but a nice slice
of life film. Quite a few recognizable actors seemed to pull off the
roles in style. The film seemed a little rushed and mysterious at the
beginning and the questions were answered by the end of the film, in a
non-standard method. With a big budget the romp scenes could've been
bigger and funnier, but this was original.
