
****this review may contain spoilers****

'Come and meet my wife' 

With these words Charles Forestier opens a new world for his former
friend and ex-soldier Georges Duroy. A world where a poor, working man
can only dream of. A world where the high society has its own rules,
where sex is power, where power leads to connections, where connections
lead to the top and where the top is dominated by corruption and
intrigues.

It's the world of Belle Epoque Paris at the end of the 19th century,
with its carriages and boudoirs,its beautiful salons and ladies in
stunning dresses.

Georges Duroy, a poor, handsome man with no special talents but with
the strong ambition to become rich and important, takes the invitation
of his wealthy friend and puts his first steps on the social ladder.
Uncertain and awkward in the beginning, looking how to behave in this
elitist company he learns fast, conquers the hearts of the wives of
influential men (by sleeping with them) to break them shamelessly when
a better opportunity shows up.

Bel ami, film adaptation of the famous classic novel by Guy de
Maupassant, is an adult tale of the rise of Georges Duroy to the top
but also of the dubious and corrupt relationships between politicians
and journalists. These themes are still actual and recognizable, which
makes the movie very accessible. The film makers did a big effort in
creating a wonderful setting as authentic as possible. Also the
costumes are a joy to watch.

The performances were very well done IMO.

Though Robert Pattinson was only 23 when he took this role he held his
own against experienced actresses as Uma Thurman, Christina Ricci and
Kristin Scott Thomas who brought respectively the intelligent
Madeleine, the frivolous Clotilde and the devote Virginie convincingly
to life. Because of his strong screen presence and the way he showed
Georges' evolution from a beginning casanova to the cad he became, Rob
nailed the character and showed that he can have a bright future as an
actor.

Bel ami, though it has dark themes, is entertaining and has more than
once funny moments apart from several steamy sex scenes. It depends of
each one's perception of the movie but I can't help but being amused by
Georges'conquests or is it Robert Pattinson who has succeeded to make
an unlikeable character likable?

If you love period movies, it's a must see. If you don't love them, you
may do after Bel ami.
<|_=00=_|>
I was fully surprised by how much I enjoyed this film. I love the book,
so was sure I'd be disappointed by the movie, which is typically the
case. I was also skeptical of the casting, particularly of the lead
role. But even so, I couldn't NOT see it.

I soon found myself completely taken in, watching the vision in my head
(from reading the book) come to life on screen. The wardrobe and sets
and music and lighting were rich and beautiful. The pace was excellent
and kept me engaged every minute - the time just flew by.

I was also completely won over by the casting, including Pattinson in
the lead role, which was probably the biggest surprise. Not only did he
manage to hold his own in the role and with a far more experienced
cast, he completely nailed George Duvoy. This required him to convey a
depth and range of nuanced emotions and intentions through expression
and tone and manner as well as interpretation of script. Kudos must go
to the director as well.

Some of the criticisms of the story or of the Duvoy character are
mistakenly pinned on the actor's performance, when what they are really
reacting to is actually how the character is depicted in the book.
That's an argument for the author, not the actor or director. So I have
to assume they haven't read the book or would not like it if they did.
And certainly there are a lot of people who just can't be objective
about Pattinson because of a strong need to belittle his teen idle
celebrity and association with the tweenage-targeted Twilight films.

I do think the movie is probably more enjoyable for those who have read
the book and can, therefore, connect the dots and fill the gaps that a
movie just doesn't have time to do - but that's true of any movie that
tries to stay true to the book.

I highly recommend the movie (and the book) to anyone who loves period
dramas with great characters. It is beautifully done.
<|_=00=_|>
Uma - never better grade 10+, Kristin - good as usual grade 9,
Christina - very good grade 9+, Robert - painful to watch, barely 1.
With his bland and totally misguided performance, he managed to ruin
the film that would otherwise been good. What were those face
expressions?!? Wasn't he supposed to be attractive, desirable, full of
sex-appeal? Why no one told him that? Why no one told him that he's not
playing a vampire anymore? In fact, it would be great if he played that
Twilight vampire, here he obviously rehearsed for a vampire hit by the
first rays of sun, just about to experience slow and very painful
death. Exactly how I felt while watching him... And no, I don't think
he's a bad actor generally, he was just huge miscast for this role. And
you just can't have good movie with such a huge miscast in a leading
role.
<|_=00=_|>
I can see that a lot of people didn't like the movie. And it makes
sense, because this is not fancy, nor does it try to be popular. And
there is no big story backing this up either. But you can see by my
rating that I did like it. I have to admit, I'm not a fan of those
Twilight movies (though the first one did exactly what it promised ...
for the target audience). But Robert P. does show that there is more to
him than glitter and pouting. Of course there was "Remember me" and
other movies that would back that up, but this is the first movie where
he has a stellar cast beside him, that also works as a drama.

There is a dark and sinister side to the character he is playing here
and there are a lot of nice little moments where the "true" character
is coming to light and shows his true colors. The performance is
brilliant, but will be overlooked by a few for obvious reasons. Still,
if you like drama movies with great performances, you probably will
like this too.
<|_=00=_|>
The choice of Robert Pattinson as the hero, or antihero of Guy de
Maupassant's novel is probably the main reason for the overall failure
of the movie adaptation. Missing the artistic maturity necessary to
sustain the depth of a complex character, he seems to feel
uncomfortable in his role, and whereas at the beginning his pale,
embarrassed face and posture may be suitable for the part of a former
poor soldier entering the glittering world of high society, once he is
part of it, those same face and posture reveal his true feeling ill at
ease in what is a totally unsuitable role for him. That's why the
story, centred on his figure, develops in a boring, pedantic way,
showing no punch and no real pathos, in search for a bounce that never
comes. Nothing to say against the brilliant female performances,the
frivolous Christina Ricci is the only one who enlivens the pale and
inexpressive face of Georges, but Uma Thurman and Kristin Scott Thomas
compete for the best performance, the first perfect in the role of the
ambiguous Madeleine, and the latter courageous in her role of an ageing
married woman, losing her mind for a young lover, and the last scene
with her dressed in black at her daughter's marriage to Georges proves
the only vivid moment within the whole picture.
<|_=00=_|>
The storyline and setting for the book is well known, but this film
focuses on the main character's development into a ruthless and
determined man who will stop at nothing to ensure he does not return to
his previous life of poverty and hardship. Robert Pattinson's
interpretation is entirely rational and believable. 

At the start of the film we see Georges hungry living in conditions
that would lead anyone to become desperate. He sees the rich
squandering their wealth and when a turn of fate allows him to enter
this world he grabs it and initially cannot believe his good luck.
However the men who made him decide they no longer want to support him
leading him to take his revenge. He has learnt that everyone in these
circles is flawed and are willing to take risks in order to get what
they want, so he feels that he can do the same. 

Robert Pattinson demonstrates that he has grown as an actor and is
building on his previous roles. 

Go and see this film you will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Brilliant, absolutely brilliant!!!having read the book not only once,
in German but also in French, I was impressed by this movie adaptation
of the French classic novel by Guy de Maupassant (5 August 1850  6
July 1893) . 

I must admit however, that the events happen very fast (it is very hard
to pack such an intense and complex story into 160minutes) and it's
mainly fully understandable to those who have actually read, loved,
discussed and grasped the novel. The movie incorporates many swift
innuendos and hints at passages taken directly from the novel. It is is
very accurate to, and there are even scenes and dialogues straight
from, the novel. The relevant essence of 19th century French society
rules is obvious. And even though the director skips some of the
specific historical and political details, the viewer gets indications
and references to catch on. The actors/characters from the book,
especially the ladies in question, couldn't be cast more perfectly Uma
Thurman, the immaculate representation of Madeleine int he novel,
Kristin Scott- Thomas, ditto as Virginie with her age, looks and
temperament and Christina Ricci, down-to- earth, less intellectual but
utterly sensual (maybe with a little exception of Ricci who played
Clotilde's character perfectly, but should have been more voluptuous
physically). 

Robert Pattinson impersonated the poor protagonist George Duroy,
without name nor heritage, however street-smart and snobbish, yet still
sensitive and compassionate arriviste George Duroy, just as I imagined
so many years ago upon reading the book. You might despise or pity, but
you will always love him in the meantime. Beautiful authentic settings,
costumes and props and the soundtrack just gets under your the skin,
courtesy of . If you still question Robert Pattison as an actor (which
I did, but do no more) then at least you may praise the direction of
Declan Donnellan & Nick Ormerod. for  the movie is simplyvery good,
VERY Good indeed...
<|_=00=_|>
Bel ami is a huge disappointment for those who are familiar with Guy de
Maupassant's novel of the same name, or for those who have seen George
Duroy in movies or in TV! Acceptable the fact that the whole novel
might not fit into the cinematic body, nonetheless the caspuled version
falls flat, and for me, this turns out to be the worst adapted
screenplays of all time! 

To start with, the casting went terribly wrong, Robert Pattinson never
came close to portraying George - still in colored shades of Cedric
Gregory and the vampire boy. The screenplay like i mentioned added to
the misery, overemphasizing on certain aspects which did mar the
intensity of the plot, and then underplaying the characters and the
drama as if we were getting to see knitted episodes from a TV series.
The saving grace comes in form of the background score which was
brilliant - how i wished to see an appeasing drama for the music!!

To sum it up, this was a real disappointment for me, i wouldn't have
minded watching a 3 hour drama (the movie really had the stuff to be
that long)but this was just a capsuled dose of what i craved for - the
ensemble cast and the build up to the release had sedated me, it just
blows :( 4/10
<|_=00=_|>
Robert Pattinson is probably trying very hard to shake off his
glittering vampire role in Twilight that had earned him millions of
fans and followers worldwide, opting to play a shady character who's
not very talented, but possessing enough good looks to tempt and seduce
his way up the social ladder in 20th century Paris, and to chase fame
and fortune by milking the right female connections in his established
network. He's a cad with a capital C, without much of a plan except to
sleep his way to get what he wants.

The story, by Rachel Bennette based on the 1885 French novel by Guy de
Maupassant, deals with the notion of how far good looks can get one
ahead in life when one is without much talent or smarts, having a
number of doors that can be opened from a simple praise, or a smile,
and to have urges satisfied by being emotionally and physically
available, even if the former mindset and actions are nothing more than
a little play pretense.

This is the classic rags to riches story and the story about insatiable
greed in always wanting something more, or someone more beautiful.
Pattinson plays Georges Duroy, an impoverished man who just came back
from the war front, and given a leg up in life when he runs into an old
acquaintance who himself is married to old money. Pattinson almost sets
his eye on his friend's wife Madeleine Forestler (Uma Thurman), if not
for her to spurn his advances and to set the record straight that she's
there only to help him initially in his job as a columnist..

It is Madeleine's doing however, to set him off into the arms of her
friend Clotilde de Marelle (Christina Ricci), whose husband is almost
always out of town, and soon both Georges and Clotilde become
adulterous lovers, made all the more convenient when Clotilde gets
their own love nest where they can carry out their illicit affair. In
effect Clotilde becomes his sugar mommy, and of course tongues will
start to wag and Georges becomes increasingly erratic in not able to
control his emotions, before ruining a life that's perfectly set up.
But second chances always present themselves, and Georges couldn't get
it any better with being reinstated in his job thanks to Virginie
Walters (Kristin Scott Thomas), and ultimately being able to get
married to Madeleine.

But life isn't all that rosy, with Madeleine spending a lot of time on
politics behind the scenes of a revolution spear-headed by the
newspaper and editors Georges works for, and herself having her own
lovers that Georges was warned way early of, and when Georges starts to
plot, things get very ugly indeed as his true colours start to show,
emotionally breaking Virginie, and unleashing his vengeance on
Madeleine, made all the more worst when he felt he had been played out
of a huge chunk of wealth, and going after the innocence of Suzanne
Rousset (Holliday Grainger) as revenge against her father and his
one-time corporate nemesis.

And the surprise package here is Pattinson. Sure we can take out
potshots and laugh at his turn as the glittering, pale vampire involved
in a romance that doesn't know when to call it quits, but his effort
here as the amorous and the evil Georges Duroy is something to sit up
and take notice. But of course the women surrounding him all made him
look good as well, with Christina Ricci being relatively underrated
here as a woman desperate for true love, while Uma Thurman does quite
the about turn now from her early debut during Dangerous Liaisons,
progressing from what was once the equivalent of a Suzanne Rousset, to
an ambitious woman who will do what it takes to secure a stake in the
power play amongst men. Kristin Scott Thomas is perhaps the most
underused here, only appearing in a handful of scenes toward the end,
playing the most vulnerable of the female characters bearing full brunt
of Georges Duroy at his most despicable.

Directors Declan Donnellan and Nick Ormerod has quite a classy film in
their hands, with lush sets and costumes transporting the reader
instantly to a period Paris, and with the quality of cast at their
disposal, delivered an intensely engaging drama about the temptation
and seduction of power, and the incessant obsession with the climbing
of the social ladder given the promises of fame and fortune that comes
automatically with the ascension of each rung. Recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
The is an exciting production of Guy de Maupassant's classic novel of
society in late 19thC Paris. There is nothing clichéd or dated with the
passion, betrayal, political and media machinations that take place. It
charts the rise of a humble man through Paris society and the newspaper
business via several women. The characters are realistic not one
dimensional - no one is a all good or bad. In a short time one can see
love, insecurity and ambition. The pace is good and doesn't lag. It's
intense but not melodramatic. A couple scenes are a bit explicit for
some of R Patz's younger fans.

Top acting from a European and American cast. Robert Pattinson has
grown a lot as an actor. He used to have 2 basic expressions - the
charming grin and the monstrous look. Here his monstrous look is well
used to show the darker side of the central character. He also manages
to show a multitude of emotions required by this complex role. He more
than holds his own against accomplished actresses. Kristin Scott Thomas
is terrific as always. Her devastation and vulnerability are
fascinating to watch. Uma Thurman plays an enigmatic independent woman
quite well. One fault is the casting of Christina Ricci - she isn't A
list and isn't attractive enough maybe a Continental actress would have
been better. 

Production wise, the interiors include some lovely rooms. For the
exteriors it would have been more authentic if they had actually shot
in Paris with some familiar landmarks. 

It's such a treat to have a fresh exciting adaptation of great
literature that hasn't been done many times. Do watch this one. This is
the kind of movie that should be rewarded by box office success instead
of the decapitation a minute type movies that rule these days.
