
This is a slow movie. Prepare to watch people standing around a hole in
the ice. If you think gray whales are a waste of time, you won't be
moved. On the other hand, if you can pull for a family of marine
mammals in danger of freezing to death, you will probably find
satisfaction in this movie's numerous charms. You'll enjoy the dignity
given to the Inuit people, environmentalists, oil executives, Soviets,
journalists, and even Republicans(!) who collaborate in dramatic
efforts to save the trapped whales. You'll appreciate the care taken
with a late 80's period piece, down to the silk blouses, big glasses,
hair, and Peter Jennings. You may even be moved by the warm and
unguarded performances of Drew Berrymore, John Kasinksi, and others.

It's possible you may have your heart enlarged by the uncommon efforts
of truly diverse people on behalf of beautiful and vulnerable
earthlings like the grays. There is an unabashed love for both the
whales and the humans portrayed in this movie, whose lives and futures
are at stake in a variety of ways. Some may regard this affection as
sentimentality, but the sense of humor sustained throughout the film
argues against this. Somehow I think the worst-ever portrayal of Ronald
Reagan was hardly unintentional. This director definitely has it in for
for Minnesotans, too.

My ten and thirteen year-old sons were engrossed by this true story
brought to the screen and gave it two thumbs up. My wife and I enjoyed
being unembarrassed in their presence throughout.

Simply as an introduction to Barrow, Alaska, the movie is totally
worthwhile.

My biggest complaint: Drew Barrymore's lips should be blue when scuba
diving in frigid Artic waters.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, there were simplistic clichés, but for a PG-rated movie and the
confines therein, Big Miracle is about as good as it can get. The
Inupiat people, the reporters, the extraction industry - all sides were
treated with a degree of nuance. The take-away message was really
important too - that you can accomplish things with people you don't
agree with or even like. And we really enjoyed the efforts made to set
the film properly in its late 80s period.

I disagree with the other reviews that found the special effects
lacking. I don't think they detracted from the story, which in the end
was quite compelling.
<|_=00=_|>
Nine-year-old KIDS FIRST! Film Critic Anthony Aranda loved this film.
Watch his video review http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yrCf8veaoyU or
read below what he had to say: "This is one of the best movies I have
ever seen that is based on a true story. This movie is really awesome
because there were so many people that came together to save three
whales. It was really heart-breaking because a lot of people put their
own lives in danger to save the lives of the whales. This movie is all
about Adam and Nathan who are out and see three whales that are trapped
under the ice and can't find their way to the ocean. There is a small
hole that the whales keep using to breathe so first they try digging
that whole to make it bigger. Adam's friend Rachel comes to help save
the whales and do everything she can. She asks the governor for help
but he says no so she tells the news about what he said. The governor
then decides to help. They have to work fast because the hole keeps
freezing and getting smaller and the ice leading to the ocean keeps
freezing over making the distance even longer. Some of the main
characters in the movie are Adam, Rachel, and Nathan. My favorite
character is Nathan because he is such a funny character at first and
then he really starts to care about the whales. He also starts to spend
a lot of time with his grandfather because his grandfather likes to
spend a lot of time around the ocean and helps animals in need. My
favorite part in the movie is when everyone started to dig the holes to
help the whales breathe and get back to the ocean. I really like this
part because it really shows how everyone cares about saving the whales
and how much people love the whales. A part that was really funny was
when the Governor had to help save the whales because Rachel told the
news that he wouldn't help. It was funny to see him shaking the hand of
a guy dressed up as a whale. I would recommend this movie for all ages
because it is a really good movie. There are not any violent parts in
this movie. This movie is a really great family movie. Go out and see
this movie in theaters on February 3rd." Review by Anthony Aranda, age
9, KIDS FIRST! Film Critic.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, The Big Miracle is not an epic or a grand movie. What it is, is a
totally enjoyable feature with a good and simple story with no unusual
surprises that people can relate to. It is good to see the Hollywood
factory machine put out a movie like this. Much credit has to be given
to Drew Barrymore (sort of a mogul herself these days).

Ken Kwapis does a really good job in telling this story without relying
on massive special effects. He also works very well with his actors. He
was given a good script from Jack Amiel and Michael Begler, both of
whom also resisted going for any kind of cheap humor.

Drew Barrymore and John Krasinski have a nice chemistry together as
they deliver fine performances.

This movie was, I am told, inspired by a true story about a small town
reporter and a Greenpeace volunteer who are joined by rival superpowers
to save a family of gray whales that are trapped by ice in the Arctic
Circle. 

The story, the visuals and the very fact that whales are a main
character in this movie, all tug at the heart strings.
<|_=00=_|>
Bravo for creating a refreshingly clean family movie! It's encouraging
and rare these days to have an opportunity to view a film the whole
family can enjoy. Big Miracle is a wholesome, educational and
entertaining movie that I happily recommend to anyone struggling like
we often to to find a movie suitable for the under 15 crowd, that
adults will also enjoy.

Big Miracle is loosely based on a true story and utilizes TV news clips
from the Reagan era that we felt made the film very realistic. Ancient
traditions, multi-generational challenges, morality, ethics,
friendship, love and social responsibility are weaved into a story set
in beautiful Alaska that made us laugh, cry and cheer along with the
characters - it was a fun adventure into a world we didn't know much
about.
<|_=00=_|>
In the late 80's, in the Alaska wilderness, three whales are trapped in
foaming ice, they must be get free or they'll die. This becomes big
news, every news person from country to country is covering it.
Politicians star getting involved, so does the coast guard. But time is
running out for the whales, will they get free, or will it be too late?

John Krasinski is good, playing his typical likable, smart Alec self.
Drew Barrymore is also good playing a strong female role, who is very
determined to save the whales at any cost. Ted Danson and Dermot
Mulroney are also in there supporting roles. The whales are also quite
memorable. This is a movie for everybody to enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on a 1988 true story (which, apparently, had a more ambiguous
ending), Big Miracle tells of a family of three whales which get
trapped beneath the ice near Barrow, Alaska, with only a rapidly
freezing hole to breathe out of. The mutually antagonistic factions of
the oil business, the Inupiat locals, and the environmental lobby
combine to try to keep the whales alive until it becomes possible to
get them the 5 miles from their breathing hole to open water, augmented
(if not aided and abetted) by a sizeable press faction. Even the end of
the Cold War gets a look in.

This film arrived with no fanfare and, despite a couple of irritations,
proved to be a feelgood movie which I enjoyed.It is very well mounted,
with most of the scenes involving the whales and the ice field being
convincingly staged. The unexpectedly starry cast all did well,
although I found Drew Barrymore's Greenpeace girl a bit excessively
preachy (by the time the film finished I had come to the conclusion
that she was meant to be), John Kasinsky is a pleasing low-key leading
man, and Kristin Bell is happy to portray a shallow young woman of
over-riding ambition and little compassion.

It may be a little too leisurely for young children but, otherwise, I
think it makes a good family movie despite the fact that the film's
title isn't very good.
<|_=00=_|>
Big Miracle looks deceiving due to its advertising. Looking like a
sappy, clichéd mess of a cash in. Even at first impression, it's
deceiving. Characters like the oft-seen charismatic ex-boyfriend, the
spunky animal rights activist, the street-smart young kid, the pretty
fish out of water journalist, the local elderly wiseman, the mean old
oil tycoon turned good guy, the unlikely geniuses who provide comic
relief, and even the self-absorbed douchebag news anchor had me fearing
for its quality.

However, something about this true story just sticks. The script is
overly clichéd, but there's a surprising heart and lack of cheap
corniness to it that feels more honest than its sappy sounding premise
may let on. It also boasts another surprising element: actual
intelligence. It may not be groundbreaking, but it's done plenty of
justice by an excellent cast. Even if it's not always focused, the
powerful ending is happily earned, adding up to a satisfying family
drama.

***1/2 / *****
<|_=00=_|>
An international effort to free three gray whales  Bonnet, Crossbeak,
and Bone  briefly made headlines in October of 1988. In the Beaufort
Sea near the town of Point Barrow, Alaska, an Inuit hunter discovered
the whales trapped beneath pack ice; using only chainsaws and water
pumps, the hunter and his fellow villagers took it upon themselves to
cut through the ice and attempt to lead the whales towards open water.
A week later, word had already spread to the remainder of the Inuit
community, local biologists, and an Anchorage news station. The story
then caught the attention of national media journalists, leading to a
series of actions that became known as Operation Breakthrough. Whale
biologists, the United States Department of State, and two Soviet
icebreakers all became involved. By the end of the month, the calf
whale had died. And although the icebreakers successfully broke through
a ridge of Arctic ice, the fate of the remaining two whales could not
be determined.

It comes as no surprise to me that "Big Miracle," a dramatization of
Operation Breakthrough, not only renames the whales Fred, Wilma, and
Bam Bam but also presents audiences with a more conclusive ending. It
also doesn't bother me in the slightest. Movies like this give us what
we often times don't get in real life, namely a sense of optimism, the
satisfaction of achieving the impossible, and most importantly,
emotional resolution. We go to them not only expecting to feel good,
but actually craving it. If you think I'm wrong, you need only to
reflect on the strong positive reactions to "Free Willy," "Dolphin
Tale," and even non-marine animal movies as recent as "War Horse." I
value authentic films that deal with life's harsh realities, but I also
recognize that we need movies like "Big Miracle" in our lives. They're
entertaining, but more to the point, they instill hope, even if it's
only for a few hours.

In terms of marine-themed movies, its most recent basis of comparison
is "Dolphin Tale," which was also a dramatic adaptation of a true
story. Although both films show considerable artistic license for the
sake of appealing to a family audience, "Big Miracle" is refreshing in
that it isn't quite as innocent. It's made clear, almost from the very
start, that the effort to save the whales has less to do with the
whales themselves and more to do with the characters' personal,
professional, and political agendas. It's not about setting aside their
differences and working together so much as it is about doing what it
takes to make a point and get ahead. In a few instances, director Ken
Kwapis has the temerity to espouse the validity of opposing viewpoints.
Ultimately, it's good to know that the all the partisanship and
personality deficits are only bringing the whales that much close to
freedom.

We have an Anchorage news reporter named Adam Carlson (John Krasinski),
who has been living in Point Barrow for four years covering menial
stories, many centering around the town's only Mexican restaurant; when
he discovers the whales trying to break through the ice for air, he
realizes that this could be his opportunity to enter larger, more
respected news organizations. We have Adam's ex-girlfriend, a
Greenpeace activist named Rachel Kramer (Drew Barrymore), who protests
everything from Alaskan oil drilling to Inuit whaling and sees the
trapped whales as a way to give Greenpeace a bigger voice. We have the
Inuit people; although they rely on whales for food, they recognize
that the American journalists will interpret their actions as murder
instead of survival, and so they join the rescue effort to paint
themselves in a better light.

We have J.W. McGraw (Ted Danson), an oil tycoon whose company won the
rights to drill for oil in the Point Barrow area. His wife (Kathy
Baker), rather cleverly, subliminally convinces him that funding the
transportation of an icebreaking hovercraft will give his company good
P.R. A White House aide named Kelly Meyers (Vinessa Shaw) thinks along
similar lines; this rescue effort would not only add credibility to
Vice President George Bush's election campaign, it would also do
wonders for turning the public's attention away from the mistakes of
the Reagan administration. She gets into contact Col. Scott Boyer
(Dermot Mulroney), who begrudgingly oversees the mission to transport
the hovercraft towards Point Barrow.

The list goes on. There's a Los Angeles news reporter (Kristen Bell),
who isn't taken seriously by her superiors, is always under pressure to
look beautiful for the camera, and is just as ambitious as Adam. She's
also aware that, because of the attention the whales are getting, the
public remains unaware of the thirty-plus wars going on in the world.
And then there's a pair of Minnesota businessmen who see this rescue as
an opportunity to test their ice-melting fans and ultimately drum up
business. It all comes down to all-American heroism, which seems to be
the attitude that unifies everyone in this effort. So imagine the shock
and reluctance when it becomes clear that the assistance of a Soviet
icebreaker ship will be required. How nice of "Big Miracle" to remind
us that, however momentarily, even enemies can believe in the same
cause.

-- Chris Pandolfi (www.atatheaternearyou.net)
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film on a whim. Wow, I was really surprised, it was
GOOD! In addition to being thoroughly entertained and moved, it was
very moving to know that the film is based on a true story. 

I don't know how they rendered the whales (CGI, mechanical, etc.), but
they were extremely life-like. It was also interesting to see how many
different cultures interacted -- political realms, the media, the local
Inuit community, the oil industry, environmentalists. The script was
terrific, and be sure to stay tuned for the end credits, where the
actors are shown alongside the real-life players in this drama.

It should be noted that Kristin Bell was excellent in the film, along
with the rest of the cast. She appears pretty far down in the credits,
and I'm not sure why, as she had a fairly prominent role.

Watch this one, you won't regret it!
