
This movie started off well with an interesting idea, but somehow ran
out of steam, or commitment, about half way through.

Melissa George and her friends go climbing in Scotland and stumble
across a secret buried in the woods. They try and go for help but
discover that they're not alone. The movie starts off as slow burning
and intriguing, with plenty of sweeping shots of the rugged Scottish
landscape, it then changes abruptly about half way through, losing all
of its subtlety and becomes a standard chase movie with guns. It's
almost as if the director lost their nerve and decided to go for blood
and glory just in case the audience gets a little bored. Some scenes
seem to be thrown in just so someone else can be killed, and the body
count by the end of the movie is a bit on the high side. 

The acting is fine, and I don't have any huge issues with the script,
it's just it could of been a nice little thriller rather than half a
good movie, and half a predictable one.
<|_=00=_|>
Being Scottish I was keen to see our great landscapes on the big screen
and went in not knowing much about this film. It started really well
looking like a superb survival in the mountains flick, the mountains
and scenery where amazing, cast was all right but then the film changed
direction for the worse.

I don't tend to give spoilers on any reviews but this verged on the
ridiculous, first of all how did the villains manage to stumble upon
two guys with rifles in middle of nowhere?, how many shots do they need
to kill someone?, how did the little girl survive after being
underwater for an eternity?. These are just some of the holes in this
film that just don't get answered or would never happen. 

And the festival in the street, I'm Scottish and I have never seen a
street festival in any town where there is breasts out while kids
watch. Script writer must have been watching Wicker man too much.

This should have been something special but lacked the nerve in the
second half of film. A poor man's Deliverance.
<|_=00=_|>
Basically the anti-Kill List, instead of slowly building to an
incredible conclusion this one starts off with the intensity at ten and
then peaks way too soon, leading to a disappointing final act. That
doesn't take away from the power of the first hour though. The premise
is horror simplicity; a group of friends go up to the mountains to do
some climbing and stumble across something they weren't supposed to.

The first hour leads them down this dangerous road of bullets and blood
that honestly had me straining to catch my breathe. A lot of, "Holy
crap!" moments almost from the start and the insanity just builds as
more characters are introduced and the intensity is matched by the pure
mystery of just what in the hell is going on in these mountains.

Of course like most cases of such a promising start, as we get more
answers to who these people are and what their motivation is things
become significantly more mundane and lead to a final act that just
equates to waiting for what you know is going to happen to happen. It's
really disappointing because that middle act has got to be some of the
most intense stuff I've seen all year and I'd say it's worth watching
for that alone, even if it doesn't pay off on it's promise.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to be present at the world premiere of this film at
Actionfest and listened in on a short Q&A with the director. Opening
with some incredible, and real, footage of people climbing sheer rock
faces, "A Lonely Place to Die" never lets up until the final credits
roll. Unafraid to take the film in unexpected directions, director
Gilbey had the audience gasping in surprise at multiple moments and I
noticed a man in front of me leaning further and further forward as the
story progressed. A great cast handled the nuanced script with real
skill. The characters are presented with many layers and it's clear
that they all have pasts and various human weaknesses but the film
doesn't take the time to explain things out clearly. It is up to the
audience to infer ( if they are interested ) in what might have
happened in their pasts. This is genius scripting in what is
essentially a simple action movie. There is depth if you care to look
for it, otherwise just hold on to your seat and be prepared for some
serious excitement. I can't wait for this to hit wide release and see
what sort of reaction the rest of the world has towards this top-notch
thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
With British horror now returning to the peak it previously reached so
many years ago at the height of the Hammer Horror fame, it's slowly but
surely become one of the freshest genres around. With such original
titles as 'Severance', 'Eden Lake' and most notably 'The Descent'
gracing our screens with their deeply chilling presence as of late, all
eyes have been transfixed on Film4's Frightfest, Britain's leading
horror-based film festival, for the latest slice of truly horrifying
cinema. As this year's closing night film, 'A Lonely Place to Die'
found itself walking in the footsteps of some true hidden gems, but
could it live up to expectations? 

As the brainchild of previously uncelebrated brothers Julian and Will
Gilbey, 'A Lonely Place to Die' will most likely not register on many
people's radars. The untraditional location and lack of star power will
mean many shall overlook it's existence, but hidden behind the
shoestring budget, the relatively unknown cast and the oddly basic
sounding plot lies a deeply disturbing and involving thriller with
little use of exhausted clich√©s and an unbelievably unpredictable
narrative. 

Despite a rather breezy but nail-biting opening, the Gilbey brothers
hold off on the majority of the shocks until at least half-way in,
allowing the basic emotional structure and tone of the picture to fully
take hold first. A rather basic introduction is rather quickly washed
over, the dialogue clunky but acceptable and the mood settling nicely.
However, when the script does begin to take off and lives are lost in
the blink of an eye, the film truly kicks it into overdrive. What the
Gilbeys to do so well is to capture the shock of loss. The sickeningly
fast pace of death and how quickly it can creep up on you. It is here
where they truly reach their winning stride, a solid 30 minutes of the
movie bang in the middle providing incredibly alarming and startling
fresh thrills literally appearing as if out of no where. One second the
mood is calm then a second later, another life lost. Doubtlessly
marvellous. 

Veteran-horror-chick Melissa George leads the pack of otherwise
unnoticeable climbers, assassins and lost little girls, her performance
both solid and believable but never once bordering on the outstanding.
Her fellow cast members too tow the line ably but none particularly
shine, their characters becoming nothing more than nicknames, but
likable nicknames at that. It is more the presence of certain
characters than the characters themselves that begin to command the
scares, one powerfully-stomached assassin becoming almost an
unstoppable force and a true sense of fear within the viewer's mind. 

Following the rather intense and erratically unforeseeable events of
the second act, the plot begins to flesh itself out a tad,
unfortunately losing much of the suspense and fear that so dominated
the previous section. Much more of the Gilbeys' obvious dialogue and
sudden character appearances are thrown in in an attempt to fuel some
rather strange and disconcerting explanations, forcing the thumping
pace back down to a general saunter, sadly wrecking the previously
unpredictable tone. 

When the finale does eventually come however, it thankfully manages to
mimic the truly demented tone of the second act at least partially,
creating a nail-biting yet slightly foreseeable conclusion. Although it
might not be the painfully dark and sinister climax many may hope for,
it's certainly a fitting end to a surprisingly thrilling and incredibly
shocking piece of British cinema. 

Although filled with pointless landscaping shots (which remain
beautiful for all of a minute) and shamefully poor dialogue, 'A Lonely
Place to Die' succeeds in creating an astoundingly rickety and worrying
tone in which no character's safety is guaranteed, leaving you both
unsettled and gasping for more. It's far from perfect, but exists as a
wonderfully disconcerting experience, earning itself a place amongst
the other hidden gems of the British horror market; 'A Lonely Place to
Die' demands and deserves your attention.
<|_=00=_|>
Yet again I am surprised by a movie that was little more than a random
recording off a satellite channel. Expecting something that might be
OK, I actually saw a very good movie indeed. The crazy thing is that
I'd never heard of it before. I don't remember seeing any reviews of it
and it certainly never had any exposure in the British press. But why?
It might not be everyone's cup of tea but it's much better than the
average Hollywood blockbuster that has a budget twenty times bigger
than this. I have a pretty jaundiced view of the state of British film
making but when I see a really good one like this then I think perhaps
there is hope.

The Highland locations and the cinematography grabbed my attention
right away. The plot surprised me (remember I knew nothing about it
beforehand) and kept me guessing as to what genre it was. Was it a
thriller, adventure film or a horror film? Could be any of these. I've
subsequently read reviews that classify it as a horror film but, whilst
it has elements you'd associate with horror, I wouldn't put it in that
genre. This is a good thing as far as I'm concerned. If you are in a
single genre then you have to follow the tropes of that genre to be
true to it. If you aren't making a genre film then you have more
flexibility to be different.

It isn't perfect (what film is?) One sequence seems to feature the most
incompetent pair of sharpshooters ever seen in a film and some of the
dialogue is difficult to make out in places. It might work on The Wire
but it doesn't work in a film with little dialogue in the first place.

There are clear influences from other films and, in particular, a
sequence that owes much to The Wicker Man but these are done well and
add to the viewing experience. 

A great British film, not a phrase you often hear from me. I just wish
I'd been able to catch it in the theatre
<|_=00=_|>
I had high hopes and I wanted it to baffle and thrill and excite me, I
really did. Instead I found myself cursing and muttering at the
ludicrous implausibility of the storyline. If, as a member of a group
of innocent mountain-climbers, you suddenly find yourself under attack
from an unseen assailant above you, would you run into the most obvious
place to be seen and keep shouting "Anna!" at the top of your voice?
No, you would creep under cover and keep very, very quiet.

At one point, there was the choice to take one route which was an easy
walk of about 12 miles to go back or to take the other which was only 4
miles but risking life and limb by climbing down a really perilous
drop. The 12 mile route would take a bit longer but would be risk free.
Everybody was in OK shape for the walk so then why do the crazy thing?
Didn't the producer believe that one of them might just realize,
"Hmmm...whoever put her there might be a bit annoyed when we set her
free, so we had better keep a look out for bad guys..."? Nope, not for
one moment. And as for staging a Rio-type Carnival in the middle of a
highland backwater, I don't think so. As soon as the dancing girl
emerged, a local Kirk elder would have nipped out and thrown a woolly
rug over her to cover her up before chasing the rest of the troupe out
of town.

And this was the problem throughout - the constant irritation that
people just do not behave like that in real life unless they are
really, really dumb or if the producer thinks that we are really,
really dumb so we will accept it. It was impossible to develop any kind
of sympathy for the protagonists because I kept wanting to give them a
good slap and tell them stop being so stupid. It reflected a total
contempt by the producer to credit the audience with a shred of common
sense. And once that respect was lost,it was impossible to regain it
because the implausibility hits just kept on coming.

So, if you like aerial views of Scottish mountains, you will have a
ball. If you like thrillers with a remotely believable plot, you will
have a real problem with this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen the more popular and might I say average to poor movies at
the present time like Inbetweeners, Cowboys & Aliens & Final
Destination 5 I wasn't planning to go to the cinema anytime soon. I
just happened to catch a very short advert for ALPTD on the TV and
checked it out on IMDb. Having a good review score we decided to go see
it. To my surprise only one out of three cinemas was showing this movie
and on arrival noticed the lack of people in the theatre (Three couples
including us). I started to think that we had made a wrong choice. How
wrong I was. The sheer scale of the opening scene was breath taking and
really drew us in ready for the rest of the film. The pace of the film
was perfect and the element of surprise was always there. There were 1
or 2 minor continuity errors but these were cleared up within the next
few minutes. The level of violence was just right for a film like this
not being glamorised or pornographied. I have to point out also that
the child abuse issue is handled very well and the bar is set at what
may be considered to be a 'comfortable movie level' (if there is such a
thing), it could have been a lot worse but the director clearly has
morals and making it quite clear it is not that type of film although
it could have quite easily been. The excitement runs consistently
throughout and the music/sound effects add to the overall excitement.
Although a few of the actors are slightly wooden this is quickly and
cleverly counter acted/covered up by the good ones and fast passed
action. Good story, cleverly layed out in a gorgeous but deadly
setting. Who could ask for more.
<|_=00=_|>
I was not entirely sure what to expect prior to watching 'A Lonely
Place to Die'; the plot intrigued me however after reading a multitude
of negative reviews I was uncertain this film would be enjoyable.

This lack of certainty was unjustified, as I found this movie very
entertaining. The pacing is spot-on and the acting is solid throughout;
in addition to this, the film was not too predictable, therefore I was
more than happy to see this movie through until the end. Sean Harris is
also, in my opinion, a key contributor to my positive opinion of this
film, as he is expectantly brilliant as always.

Overall, what stops this film from being fantastic is the lack of
depth, characterisation and stand-out moments, however if you are
looking for an interesting, entertaining British film with a few fresh
ideas and solid acting, this is worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer for this film made it look like an excellent little
low-budget mountaineering thriller, set in the Scottish wilds. Melissa
George and buddies being stalked by a gang of human traffickers, no
doubt being picked off one by one by a rifle with telescopic sights.
Hard to get wrong, right? Well, no, actually, because A LONELY PLACE TO
DIE is the perfect example of a good premise going astray.

The opening sequence of this film could accurately be described as
nail-biting. The subsequent events, setting up the characters and then
the big twist in the woods ¬ñ all are portrayed accurately. The chase
through the wilderness scenes are fine. Then, at around halfway
through, this film suddenly falls to pieces. The writers just haven't
got a clue how to sustain momentum. The action moves to a town, and
that turns out to be the worst possible thing they could do, because
then it becomes a ludicrous shoot-em-up.

Melissa George, by now a seasoned veteran of horror/thrillers, makes
for an engagingly tough heroine. Sean Harris has always been an
ice-cold villain and doesn't disappoint. But wait, what's all this? A
whole new trio of leading characters, brought into the action late on,
suddenly taking over the limelight? Despite Eamonn Walker being a
gifted actor, the shift in focus just doesn't work. And if I see ONE
more scene in which the characters meet up with a cop who then gets
shot, I'll scream.

By the end, this is tripe of the highest order, and a real
disappointment. It started off so well too. Once again, check out the
Spanish thriller KING OF THE HILL to see how it SHOULD be done...
