
Having read Philip Carlo's biography of Richard Kuklinski 'The Ice Man:
Confessions of a Mafia Contract Killer', I can say that Ariel Vromen's
big screen adaptation 'The Iceman' is a big disappointment. While the
author had a habit of repeating himself and some of Richard's
recollections seemed rather dubious in places, Carlo's lengthy book was
an engrossing read, I enjoyed it very much.

The problem with the film is that it's awfully constructed; it's all so
terribly rushed. It fails to develop both the narrative and
subsequently the character of Richard Kuklinski, glossing over almost
everything that made the book such an interesting read. I appreciate
that cramming one's life story into a screenplay can be a difficult
task, however there are major flaws in the script that could have
easily been avoided  the screenplay should've been scrapped and
completely rewritten. 

His unspeakably awful childhood, for instance, is covered with an
utterly perfunctory flashback scene that lasts for all of about 15
seconds. This is a fatal mistake, because it was his harrowing
formative years that shaped Richard.

Stanley Kuklinski, his deeply cruel father, conditioned his son with
the daily violence he inflicted upon his whole family. After Stanley
dealt Richard's brother Florian a particularly malicious beating, he
died from his injuries; the police were told that he fell down a flight
of stairs. Richard's mother was also a callous, unpleasant person;
despite her zealous religious values she had no qualms about battering
her children with a broom handle. Even when Richard sought solitude in
the placidity of his local church as an altar boy, nuns would punish
him by splitting the skin on his knuckles with the edge of a metal
ruler. All of the relentless anguish was compounded by his family's
total destitution.

When 13-year-old Richard also became the victims of local bullies, it
all became too much for him  he beat one of them to death with a pole
and discarded his body with brutal efficiency. Kuklinski recalled that
it was at this moment that he discovered 'it was better to give than
receive'. The passages of Carlo's book that cover his youth make for
appalling reading; unfortunately none of this power is to be found in
Ariel Vromen's rather boring adaptation.

Lacking also are the details of Kuklinski's career. The book recalls
Kuklinski's methods of murder, the way he stalked his prey and his
utter indifference towards his victims' suffering. Very little of this
was explored in the film, we get little more than a brief montage of
random people being blown away  it's all so damn rushed and
disorganised. Considering what a desperately violent individual
Kuklinski was, 'The Iceman' is a rather neutered production. It has
none of the visceral qualities that shock you like in 'The Godfather'
and 'Goodfellas', mob films that draw you into their brutal world where
death is merely 'business'.

Not only is the narrative woefully underdeveloped but it's also sheer
fiction in many instances. Despite having great dramatic material to
work with, Ariel Vromen and Morgan Land decided that their own version
of events were better. Even the more faithful scenes have been tweaked
and messed about with for no discernible reason. For example, Roy DeMeo
didn't introduce Kuklinski to contract killing, he had already had a
career with the DeCavalcante New Jersey crime family and had killed
scores of people both professionally and privately. It also forgets to
depict the savage beatings Richard used to give his wife Barbara and
the pernicious effect it had on the family dynamic.

As you have probably heard, Michael Shannon is the highlight of the
film. Much like the real man, he has a steely reserve and an explosive
temper; he also resembles him in both appearance and speech. However,
despite his best efforts, Shannon is completely let down by the script.
While Shannon is indeed cold and calculated, the film fails to truly
capture Kuklinski's aura of menace and particularly his notoriety in
Mafiadom.

While the performances are fine, 'The Iceman' is quite frankly ruined
by total underdevelopment. If I had entered the film with no knowledge
of the man, I would have found it a boring, mediocre mob film. But
knowing the depth and drama of this tragic figure means that 'The
Iceman' is a complete misfire that deserves much more, ideally a
remake. The only thing that it successfully achieved was the
credibility of its period styling.

www.hawkensian.com
<|_=00=_|>
The Iceman was an enjoyable movie with very good acting, but ultimately
quite unrealistic. 

The Iceman, Richard Kuklinski, comes off as a very sympathetic
character in the end, whereas in real life he truly was a cold
emotionless and sociopathic killer. His family weren't so much
cherished and loved as they were possessions that were his and his
alone.

Much has been learned about sociopathy by interviewing Kuklinski, but
unfortunately none of this was used to shape and portray his real
character in the movie. Nonetheless, the movie is worth seeing, but
more as entertainment than enlightenment about Kuklinski's life of
crime.
<|_=00=_|>
Michael Shannon should get at least an Academy Award for his
performance in this movie. This guy can act and you lose the person and
totally see the characters he portrays. Reminds me of Daniel Day Lewis.

Anyway, I had never heard of this Kuklinsky person and it was
interesting to see his story. The multiplicity of his lifestyle had to
be a killer (no pun intended) to live out. I don't know of many actors
who could go from one to the other so effortlessly. From cold-hearted
killer to nice person to ragging man to loving husband and father.
Michael Shannon can do this well. And those subtle expressions of his!
They're great. Icy. Kind. Murderous.

I'm not a fan of Winona Ryder but I liked her portrayal of the Mrs. in
this movie. She was believable and really had the suffering wife thing
down.

While leaving the movie I ran into a gentleman who had watched the
actual documentary of Kuklinsky's life and he said the movie was a good
portrayal of the facts. That is a good thing to hear because this kind
of story like lends itself to Hollywood sensationalism. And while some
of that may have happened, it was a good movie about a bad man. Did I
feel sorry for Kuklinsky at the end? Yes...well actually it was pity
that I felt.
<|_=00=_|>
I had to drive over 70miles one way to watch this movie and was it
worth it? Hard to say if one watched "the iceman tapes" from HBO. To me
personally it was disappointing, but I probably expected way too much.
So lower your expectations and you will have a nice evening in the
cinema. 

Shannon is great, superb, I guess nobody could have played him better,
but the editing, the storytelling is very abrupt and a bit too edgy.
Its not a good fellas, its not even close to it, don't expect even a
mob flick. Its an OK movie that had so much more potential. YET it is
still worth watching since you don't see movies like that nowadays very
often. 

The potential of the story would have been an 11, this movie is a 7
with an extra point for Shannons performance. And in relevance I should
mention that I would give broken city a 3.5, gangster squad a 4.5, so I
guess people who watch this movie with not so high expectations will
love it! 

PS. No "the iceman" did NOT got his nick because he was so cold, like
another reviewer wrote, but because he froze a body for two years. The
officials gave him then that name. All this is well known through the
"iceman tapes".
<|_=00=_|>
The Iceman a biopic based on New Jersey hit-man Richard Kuklinski who
managed to murder at least 100 and possibly up to 250 victims in a span
of almost 40 years.

Michael Shannon giving a strong performance as the hit-man with the
calculating and creepy demeanor of a psychopathic killer with no
conscience who can still flip the switch back to his life in the
suburbs with wife and kids. Yet a shade of subtlety and pathos in his
portrayal of Kuklinski that we can actually identify and take some
interest in his struggles. With the exception of Winona Ryder who fits
seamlessly as naive suburban housewife (and the 2 daughters) very
unlikely to feel sympathy for the victims with the exception of one
senseless killing. Mostly wiseguys, mostly scumbags. We're not all that
mad at Kuklinski for the nasty stuff he's doing. 

Ray Liotta a can't miss as a minor mob boss, all the acting first rate
and the characters real. But the Iceman story is told without ice and
without chasers, a gangster flick without sentiments real or phony
thrown in. Viewers hoping to draw insights or conclusions from all the
dead bodies might end up disappointed. The 'Iceman' moniker from his
practice of freezing bodies to confuse the time of death.

My biggest question for Kuklinski would be, how do you get away with so
many murders, so many different methods, places, people over a span of
almost 40 years? In the true crime shows the perp makes one little slip
in his only perfect crime and ends up in the slam.

The movie is what it is because I don't think there's all that much
complex or new in a Kuklinski to learn. Abused growing up, turns to
sociopathic super bully behavior as an adult to get what he wants and
to survive. No genius but smart enough to know when to turn it down out
in the suburbs. Kuklinski was an usher at mass every Sunday. They
should have included that in the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Having developed a morbid fascination with serial killers over the past
few years, I was delighted to hear that Richard Kuklinski, one of the
most prolific and emotionless mass murderers in history, was to be
given the cinematic treatment. Not only was his story ripe for a juicy
adaptation, but Michael Shannon, the most consistently mesmerising
actor working in film today, was cast as the titular Iceman. Sadly,
inexperienced director Ariel Vromen, who up to this point had only made
two films I've never heard of, has delivered a by-the-numbers biopic;
one that follows familiar genre conventions and whitewashes Kuklinski's
story completely in favour of a formula that a mainstream audience can
comfortably follow.

After being impressed by his towering frame and generally intimidating
nature, mob boss Roy DeMeo (Ray Liotta), who is in the employ of the
Gambino crime family, takes the young Richard Kuklinski under his wing.
To get a feel for him, DeMeo tells Kuklinski to kill at tramp in broad
daylight, to which Kuklinski coldly obeys . Soon enough, Kuklinski is
carrying out mob hits for DeMeo, while telling his clueless wife
Deborah (Winona Ryder) that he is in finance. He meets fellow contract
killer Robert 'Mr. Freezy' Prongay (Chris Evans), who teaches Kuklinski
the benefits of using cyanide to carry out the murders, and then
freezing the bodies to rule out a time of death. But with DeMeo coming
under pressure from his boss Leonard Marks (Robert Davi) for a drug
deal gone wrong, Kuklinki finds himself and his family under threat.

What might have been a fascinating insight into the inner workings of a
sociopath, The Iceman is nothing more than your standard
straight-to-DVD mobster movie. Completely ignoring Kuklinski's natural
instinct for murder (he was a serial killer long before the mob
approached him) and his reputation as a merciless and cruel man,
beating and killing men for the slightest of reasons, Vromen even adds
a family angle that is completely untrue. To give the lead character a
bit of recognisable humanity, here he is portrayed as a loving family
man, dedicated to his wife and kids as the mob close around him. In
fact, in real life Kuklinski was an aggressive wife-beater; a
tyrannical king of the household who regularly committed acts of
physical and mental abuse on his family.

Artistic license is a right that every film-maker has when conducting a
biopic, but when there's a complex and fascinating story to tell,
however dubious some of Kuklinski's claims are (he claims to be
responsible for the murder of Jimmy Hoffa), then why make such drastic
changes if all you're doing is making your subject the same character
seen a thousand times before? Shannon deserves better than that, and
his unnerving performance is one of the few saving graces here, but his
character is reduced to nothing more than a standard mobster, seduced
by the lifestyle and cutting himself off from regular life. He was a
cruel, savage monster, who disposed of some of his victims by having
them eaten alive by rats (or so he claims), or in one incident, he
allowed his victim time to pray to God to see if he would answer his
prayers, before killing him (this scene is played out in the film with
James Franco as the victim).

Plot strands veer off path and are offered no resolution, making them
completely redundant. Some are intriguing, such as Stephen Dorff's
appearance as Kuklinski's imprisoned paedophile brother, who hints at
Kuklinski's dark childhood and abuse. Others are not, such as DeMeo's
right-hand man Josh Rosenthal (David Schwimmer) who is given more
screen time than necessary, only for the story to fizzle out into
absolutely nothing, as does DeMeo himself. Given a longer running time,
a more experienced director, and ultimately more commitment to the
source material (various books and recordings exist of Kukinski, the
most popular being Philip Carlo's book The Iceman: Confessions of a
Mafia Contratc Killer and the TV movie The Iceman Tapes), this could
have been highly engrossing cinema, instead it's a crushing
disappointment, saved only by Shannon's imposing performance.

www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Dramatizations are at their best
when actual footage of the subject or event doesn't exist. They can be
an effective way to highlight a particularly interesting story or
person with details we might not otherwise access. Richard Kuklinski's
story is fascinating and frightening. He is known as the mob's most
prolific hit-man/contract killer. Writer/director Arial Vromen has
adapted Anthony Bruno's novel for the screen, and wisely cast Michael
Shannon in the lead. It makes a nice companion piece to the chilling
1992 documentary The Iceman Tapes: Conversations with a Killer.

The movie is dominated by the hulking presence of Shannon as Richard
Kuklinski. Shannon is no match for the physical size of Kuklinski, but
his movements and the camera angles capture the powerful and imposing
monster that he was. If you are unfamiliar with Kuklinski's story, he
killed somewhere between 100-250 people. His missions were carried
forth in cold-blooded, heartless and widely disparate manners.
Additionally, he often dismembered his victims and froze bodies and
parts to prevent the actual time of death from being established. He
was good at his job, but hardly a good guy. But wait! Not so fast ...

Kuklinski was also a husband a father of two daughters who made up what
appeared to be a lovely, normal family in suburban New Jersey. This guy
had an internal switch he flipped from the street to the dining room
table. When he was captured, his wife and daughter claimed they had no
clue what he did for a living (he had told them he was in Finance).
Sure, they admitted to his having a wild temper and even threatening
his wife a few times, but they never once considered that he was a
cold-blooded killer by day and neighborly barbecue dad on weekends.

Winona Ryder plays Deborah, Kuklinski's wife. Before you roll your
eyes, you should know that Ryder is exceptional in the role. Her tease
in Black Swan gave us hope she had returned to form, but this turn
displays the talent we always knew was there. The always dependable and
creepy Ray Liotta is perfectly cast as Roy Demeo, the mobster for whom
Kuklinski worked. The scenes with Shannon and Liotta together are
bone-chillingly frightening. Chris Evans (light years from Captain
America) plays fellow hit-man Robert Prongay aka Mr Freezy. Kuklinski
credits Prongay with valuable insight into poison and disposal of
bodies. It's heart-warming to see that even contract killers have
support groups. Other support work comes courtesy of David Schwimmer as
Josh (Demeo's right hand man), Robert Davi (as Leonard Marks. Demeo's
link to the family head), James Franco (as one of the hits), and
Stephen Dorff as Kuklinski's incarcerated brother Joey.

Childhood flashbacks give us the table-setting necessary to understand
the balance of nature v nurture in the Kuklinski household. Still, no
matter how much abuse or misery one has a child, it's difficult to
comprehend the stoic evil that possessed Kuklinski. And to be clear,
Michael Shannon's performance is his best yet ... and that is saying a
great deal. He has become one of the most interesting actors - one who
can take the lead as he does here and in Take Shelter, or as a
scene-stealing supporter in Revolutionary Road, Mud and the upcoming
Man of Steel (as General Zod). He's not a flashy actor, just an
extremely talented one.

Vromen captures the gritty feel of the nearly three decades of "family"
life in a manner that reminds of Kill the Irishmen ... the Ray
Stevenson take on Danny Greene. The atmosphere and inner turmoil are
similar, but there is no comparison the Kuklinski evil. Should you
doubt this, I would highly recommend the documentary previously
mentioned. Watching the actual dead eyes of the real Richard Kuklinski
as he talks about his life is beyond horrifying.
<|_=00=_|>
A life of crime. Are some people genetically predisposed to crime or is
it all about choices?

In this hard hitting drama, we follow the rise and fall of Richard
Kuklinski played utterly convincingly by Michael Shannon. The man who
terrorised many, yet he was a faithful and devoted dad and husband
where the constant struggle is shown in keeping the balance between a
life of crime and family harmony.

One scene I find particularly mesmerising is when he visits his brother
in prison and as he is about to leaves his brother shouts that since
are both born criminals they shall both end up in jail.

Kudos to the makers for conveying tension and emotion in the correct
dose. My only remark would be that it kind of lost its way between
being a crime drama and autobiography, however whilst it successfully
is a bit of both, I sort of craved it picked a genre and dig a little
deeper.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie let me down in so many ways. I do understand that most of
the time the book is better then the movie for obvious reasons. Time
restrictions,budget and movie rating system. But to not even come close
and Im talking not even in the same ball park is a huge let down.

Spoiler coming.... Biggest error of the movie was that the director
failed to show how heartless "The Iceman" really was. Let me explain.

In the book "The Iceman" would sample new weapons on people mostly the
homeless walking under the East River Parkway near the Brooklyn bridge.
The police most of the time just wrote it off as the homeless killing
each other off. One of his more horrendous acts was to drive a victim
to the deep woods of Pennsylvania and seek out a cave. He would then
tie up his victim with food all over him...He would then video tape the
rats chewing the victim alive. Im not getting into every murder he did
but, This does sum up the point that the movie somewhat just skims the
surface of how ruthless and heartless the "Iceman" really was.

As for the movie as a whole...I rate this as a somewhat average run of
the mill crime drama. I left feeling like I just wasted 2 hours.
<|_=00=_|>
With 2011's Take Shelter, Michael Shannon is proving to be a
fascinating leading man. Just through his presence, he can convey that
unstable line between sanity and insanity and bad and good. You can
just tell his inner conflict is going to explode at boiling point. It's
unfortunate that while Shannon certainly transforms into the 'iceman,'
The Iceman's script doesn't call for much of his range. Instead, it's a
moody gangster film that revels in the moments where it can step just
beyond the clichés while still pressing all the standard buttons. It's
interesting in these kinds of scenes where a mob boss forces an
associate to give to a homeless person or Shannon lets James Franco's
cameo pray to God just to see what happens. It's a well-acted film,
particularly Winona Ryder standing out in the supporting cast and it's
very slickly made. But the fundamental problem with the film is its
rhythm. The editing is constantly hectic even at the smallest things.
There's no natural fluctuations that give emotional moments gravitas or
action moments excitement. It does end up fatiguing and it lessens the
sense of journey and change. Nevertheless, it's still a wickedly
entertaining thrill ride to the end, just blunt at its edges.

7/10
