
Make no mistake, Max Steel, the Mattel toy property, turned Cartoon
Network staple, turned full length movie has become the worst reviewed
wide-release film of 2016. After a single weekend, the movie has
garnered a staggering Metascore of 26, and a 0% on Rotten Tomatoes.
Those are scores usually reserved for direct to DVD video game
adaptations and the occasional Pauly Shore movie. I'll admit with so
many metrics stacked up against it, my interest both as a critic and a
connoisseur of junk cinema was piqued. I wanted to hate this movie; I
came in with the expectation that this movie was a special kind of
crappy. But alas it's just the regular kind of crappy.

The plot of Max Steel promises the adventures of a middle-America
teenager named Max (played by perennial kids-TV bit-player Ben
Winchell) and his alien companion named Steel. Due to Max's seemingly
inexplicable ability to conjure energy on a molecular level, Steel acts
as a symbiotic techno-parasite consuming it with relative safety. In
return, Steel (voiced by Josh Brener) enhances Max's physical abilities
and protects him with a laser spewing bio- tech suit. Little does Max
know that his new friendship with his alien buddy upsets a certain
celestial balance, that holds the future of our world in the hands of a
sinister enemy.

The plot promises these things but in an election year, we should all
be wary of false promises by now. While watching Max Steel I was less
concerned about the fate of the world than the fate of those involved
in this project and made the mistake of taking it seriously. The film
co-stars award nominated actors Maria Bello and Andy Garcia whose
natural gravitas threatens to give Max Steel more weight than your
average Smallville (2001-2011) knockoff. I understand that veteran
actors need to eat but most actors should draw the line when asked to
put on a half-assembled Power Rangers outfit.

The film itself is a cheap, shabby, impotent mess that tries oh so hard
to ape the grungy self-serious aesthetic from recent superhero fare.
But instead of finding a balance between pretension and moment- focused
excess, the camera diddles through colorless scenes that look like they
were shot through a layer of cellophane and Vaseline. This of course is
when we get exteriors of antique pickup trucks chugging through
amber-waved back-roads. When it comes to the heavy climaxes, the movie
seems poised to give us the same blighted industrial zones we've seen
in everything from low-budget horror movies to late-period Steven
Seagal flicks. Only this time it's lighted like a neighborhood Zap-
Zone to give the film's target audience (mainly toddlers and their
misguided gamgams) the desire to whip out their video games.

It's all so genuinely and quite unpleasantly sad to see a movie like
Max Steel. Watching bloated, intelligence insulting, big-budget fare
fall flat can give anyone a sudden jolt of schadenfreude. Yet watching
something whose only real crime is being too big for its britches, well
it's just not that much fun. The film and its makers are trying to
mimic a certain style, a certain flow, a certain spirit yet it simply
have none of the right tools to do so. So they patched this puppy up
with as much exposition, flashbacks and Josh Brener inspired wisecracks
to trick you into thinking it was all worth it. But it's not, it's
really, really not.

Max Steel is like going to the zoo, visiting the tiger exhibit and
seeing a tiger born and raised in captivity. Many people arguably
worked their best on this film, but because their best is inspired by
the limited cultural echo chamber of comic books, blockbuster movies
and Halo, we get a movie that lazes about, the fierceness in its eyes
completely absent.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the worst super hero movie of 2016. Extremely slow to tell a
story, no action (except for the last few mins of the movie), too many
annoying flash back. Seem like the director wasn't sure if he wants to
make a sci-fi movie, chic flix, or comedy.. it turns out to be a big
mess that drag on and on. People walking out in the middle of the
movie, if it wasn't for my 11 year old, I would have done the same..
After the movie, my 11 year old even comment how bad the movie was!
Here's an example of how slow the movie was.. the first min. of the
movie, it also indicate Max has super power, it took about 30 mins of
the movie to finally confirm his super power. Then another 40 mins of
the movie to talk about nothing much with flash back.. and finally 5
mins of action (fight scene) to beat the bad guy. When you think it's
all over.. they spend another 15 mins to put some unnecessary romance
and filler to make the movie 92mins long, so that you don't think the
movie is being too short.
<|_=00=_|>
Was it great, nah but it was a fun ride and it WAS NOT A REMAKE OF THE
CRAPPY SHAQ FILM. Max Steel was a kids series a few years back now
being brought to the big screen:
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2748608/?ref_=fn_al_tt_2 Shaq's film was
based on John Henry Irons AKA Steel from DC Comics that came to
prominence when the Death Of Superman run was in full swing:
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120207/?ref_=fn_al_tt_1 The reviews that
I've read for the "racist remake!" or the "Whitewashed retelling of a
Black man's story!" are baseless and ridiculous.

Was the film Oscar worthy...Hell no it was for kids, tweens and ol Max
fanboys that liked the cartoon...Cool CGI & fun.

And to qualify, I am Black. I am 100% dedicated to what's good for
Black people and I am 100% for the truth and honesty for all of
us...Peace & love all!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I actually enjoyed this. After reading a few reviews I expected it to
be really slow and boring but was pleasantly surprised. Sure it took a
little longer going places than some of the rushed non-stop explosion
fests available but that's why I liked it. It felt like it was it's own
film and not just a carbon copy of all other superhero style films out
there, it actually took time to build a sense of mystery and develop
the characters rather than just rushing from one plot point to the
next.

I felt like I got to know the main character and was intrigued to see
more of the movie universe unlike many forgettable action/sci-fi movies
out there.

If you go into the film expecting non-stop action sequences go watch
the avengers, if you want something with a little mystery and gradual
exploration of that mystery watch this
<|_=00=_|>
I remember a cartoon that pretty much was the same deal, except that
cartoon more had a base on action sports which was what I was expecting
with this film but as it turns out there was another more recent
cartoon, this movie was based on. 

Max is a kid who moved around a lot and he discovers why when he moves
to the place were his mom and dad met and it triggers the energy
spectrum that gives him super powers.

The formula was straight forward and it should have worked but all it
did was doze me off, literally snoozing. Thought the movie did have
some interesting surprises, but I spent most of the flick trying to
keep my eyes open to pay too much attention. 

Will say I enjoyed Andy Garc√≠a's role in this film. Far different than
anything I've seen him in before and he most likely did it cause it was
fun to do and he looked like he had fun. So that was enjoyable.

Max Steel could have been so much better, but it's not. So it's not
worth watching. Should have based it on the 1st cartoon I guess.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I was completely disappointed. The only tip I can give to y'all
is the movie, "Max Steel", is similar to "Power Rangers". Therefore if
you are still into or starting to like those series, then go for it. 

Otherwise if you're trying to find a good time, this will make you cry
tears in despair. Likewise, if you're a viewer like me who wants to
explore, you'll probably enjoy the beginning, but puke toward the end.

Here's some details into why the movie isn't a success for me:

The protagonist is arrogant

The villain is arrogant (oh... they're supposed to?)

The movie skips a lot of character build ups

Finally and most importantly... yelling solves EVERYTHING!!! These
would be great in books/novels, but doesn't help movie production.
<|_=00=_|>
Max McGrath (Ben Winchell) doesn't know much about his respected
scientist father who died in a mysterious storm. His mother Molly
(Maria Bello) brought him back to his father's old stomping grounds on
the advise of colleague Dr. Miles Edwards (Andy Garcia). Max is a loner
at school except Sofia Martinez befriends him. He's having strange
effects and visions. Then an alien Steel escapes from his father's old
lab and joins him. Max is emitting tachyon energy which, joined with
Steel, is used to form the superhero Max Steel. Steel is an Ultralink
alien and they end up battling other Ultralinks threatening to destroy
the world.

I wouldn't say that this is horrible or irredeemable. It's simply weak
stuff. Firstly, the Mattel name does not fill me with confidence. While
Marvel and DC have gained credibility through some good work on the
page and on the screen, Mattel has no such background. The very name
denotes cheesiness on the big screen. I don't know anything about this
IP's origins. The story is nothing special. There are a couple of first
rate actors. There are a few twists. One is obvious from the start.
Another one is head-scratching and less than reasonable. As an origin
story, this is no Spider-man, Batman, or Superman. It's really another
Young Adult movie at its heart and not terribly good even on that
level. There are a few too many problems to overlook.
<|_=00=_|>
Well lets take it one step at a time. 1) the movie starts well with a
mystery going on around our main character and a good enough
introduction of the rest of the characters. 2) the plot is good but it
doesn't fit only to one movie so i hope for another one. 3) the end,
well i am not gonna spoil this but the movie prepares the audience for
the end (that makes the movie predictable -ish) but who doesn't like to
say "i knew it". I liked max and defensively loved steel, i hope there
was more about the background of steel and max but i put my faith on
the next movie if there is going to be any. It's a movie decent enough
to go on a sequel. So i am giving it a 10 because for the kind of movie
it is it's very good.
<|_=00=_|>
You know those horror movies that start with a bunch of kids going away
to have fun in a cabin in the woods and it takes about five minutes to
know everything that will ever happen to them? It's like that, but lame
sci-fi.

It starts with the single mom moving back with her teenage son to their
home town. He is young, sexy, but vulnerable and he's got superpowers
and a friendly alien that he didn't know about. Oh, and a girl that is
all but stalking him in order to be his boyfriend. And the mother knows
something, but doesn't prepare him one bit, because he might not be
ready. And the alien is amnesiac. So in order to be a bit interesting,
they plug in a villain. A lame villain that makes no sense and has zero
character development.

In fact, that's the feeling you get from the movie as a whole: plug and
play. Every piece of it, be it plot, special effects or actors just
some refurbished bit of crap from some other film in the genre. It is
worse than a failure, it is something that they made knowing it had no
value. The more I think about it the lower I want to rate it, so I stop
here.
<|_=00=_|>
I downloaded this for my son who loves the animated series. I watched
it in super fast motion to see if it will hold his attention. At 55
minutes you finally see Max's armor. He gets hit once by a... I don't
know... some creature and the suit disappears. 17 minutes later, he
gets his suit again and dukes it out against another dude in an armored
suit. Didn't need to watch the fight scene. I can tell that this movie
will hold the attention of a child for about 17 minutes, only because
they can't wait to see Max Steel in his armor fighting creatures like
in the series. Alas, it is a big pile of poop. I was watching at 10x
speed and was still bored. Sad. What a waste. They should have made a 2
hour animated movie.
