
I'm surprised at the polarized opinions of Predators here on IMDb. From
fans of the original movie (like me), I would have expected a degree of
respect for this latest iteration; it seems to honor its predecessors
while still offering new twists and depth. Without presenting spoilers,
I would simply say that there were developments in Predators that
present some exciting opportunities for future films. I also always
appreciated Predator for its "gravitas", and Predators continues that
somber and grim tradition with arguably better acting. 

For new viewers, I don't see what more could have been expected. It's
an old concept (The Most Dangerous Game, with hunted humans), but
Predators does a good job with it. The acting is great, the lines are
not successive groan-worthy quips, the cinematography is delicious, and
the soundtrack is fantastic (segments of the original with new score!).
Again, the overall plot isn't new, but at least it's not stupid. The
characters behave in a realistic manner, and I wasn't plagued by the
"why-didn't-they-just-do_____?" question for the entire movie.

Frankly, if you read a review from someone with a rating lower than
five, they're just not being fair. Predators AT LEAST deserved to be
watched and appreciated for what it offers.
<|_=00=_|>
Before I took a chance on this film there was really only one question
I wanted answered...

'Is this film going to be another steaming pile of disappointment like
the AVP films?'

And the answer, happily, is 'No', though after having to sift through
all the unhelpful and uninformative 1 rater reviews here, I never would
have guessed. I almost gave this film a miss, but I'm glad I didn't. It
was actually quite good, and I'll tell you why (no spoilers I promise). 

I think it is important to go into this film with the right
expectations. This film returns to the original Predator format, and
borrows heavily from the first 1987 Predator film. There are scenes and
characters (and even weapons) which are so reminiscent of the first
film that they would not be out of place in a remake. I like to view
this as very deliberate homage to the original rather than shameless
plagiarism, and I enjoyed the film more and feel much happier because
of it. Of course this is not a remake. It is a sequel with some major
differences from the 1987 film, and enough originality to make it
interesting and unique in its own right.

The story is not overly ambitious, they play it straight and the focus
is given more to building tension, which it manages to do very well.
Because it is a Predator film you kind of know what is going to happen,
but it still manages to be suspenseful from the start, and there are
quite a few surprises and twists along the way to keep you guessing.
The unnerving way the truth of their situation unfolds for the
characters is quite enthralling, and reminded me strongly of shows like
'The Outer Limits'.

The characters are interesting and all of them are well portrayed. Some
are a little clich√©, but the main character played by Adrien Brody is
actually more human and teeters on the edge of being a full blown anti-
hero. 

My only major gripe with this film is that there is little character
development. The characters are (as I said) interesting, but there just
doesn't seem to be enough time to explore them very deeply. The most
you really get is a shallow glimpse of who they might be, which left
question marks over some of their motivations. This does make the film
slightly forgettable, as you never really end up feeling or caring too
much for them, and sometime it feels like they do things just to drive
the plot/action forward, rather than because it is something their
character might do.

Overall I would give the film a 7 out of 10, it was above average for
and action flick and screamed quality, despite a retentively low
budget, and I definitely wouldn't mind going to see it again. An
entertaining action thriller at worst, and a nice edition to the
Predator franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
Just to clear the air, this film is not a reboot or a remake of
Predator and its associated follow ups. Rather, it is an able
complement to the established mythos, adding its own two cents worth to
an expanding franchise, even though it chose to ignore the crossover
hybrids with the Versus Aliens films, and connects itself directly to
the first Predator film by John McTiernan starring Arnold
Schwarzenegger.

Produced by Roger Rodriguez and directed by Nimrod Antal who did films
like Kontroll, Vacancy and Armoured, Predators clearly met its
objectives it set out to achieve without flashy fanfare, with Antal
providing assured direction in the many set action pieces that don't
rely on the hair-tearing quick MTV-styled cuts so just to let you know
everything's kinetic and hyper. Some scenes will also get your eyebrows
raised at how gory and violent this installment can get, with
in-your-face dismemberment, and even one which shows how cruelly wicked
the Predator can be with a move that closely resembles a "finish him"
from Mortal Kombat.

The story is kept simple with one primary plot, and that is to witness
how a band of para- military personnel get to outwit and outlast the
Predators as they learn that they're prey and game for the alien
beings, which are armed to the teeth in advanced weaponry, armour and
various sensors like infra-red, with electromagnetic pulses ready to
discharge and wreck havoc on human rifles. It's not a fair fight,
especially when it comes to the famed cloaking camouflage that gives
the Predators an advantage. 

But hey, who says hunting sport has to be fair anyway? In fact, this
film only serves to cement the franchise plot point of having as many
characters as possible to add to body count, and we're almost unlikely
to hope for anyone to emerge unscathed when faced with such odds. But
well, Schwarzenegger's character did it in the first film through a
simple battle strategy, so perhaps this group of rag-tags have some of
the same luck as well. Given the Predator's penchant to play with their
game, don't expect instant blood and gore as a few teasers have to be
in place, before the first death occurs (well, death to an
unidentifiable actor, is no count)

Leading the team is Adrien Brody's reluctant soldier of fortune, who
decides early on that while he's a member of the human tribe, he's not
going to forge any emotional bonds with anyone, being quite dogged and
determined to leave the gaming planet alive. This of course irks
Isabelle (Alice Braga) the female soldier from Israel who holds a few
secrets of her own, and others from the likes of Chechnyan soldier
Nicolai (Oleg Taktarov) to the odd one out in Doctor Edwin (Topher
Grace), given the rest have tasted real life action in the killing
fields, now brought through alien abduction to a planet whose
atmosphere is almost identical to Earth, for a game of survival skills.

The story also allows time to dwell on moral dilemma and ethical issues
that fighters face in combat, with the strategies employed by the
Predators seem to have come out of familiar theatres of war and rules
of engagement, where traps are set not to kill but to maim, and fellow
survivors forced to make hard decisions as to saving their new found
compatriots, or whether it's all man for himself. While offering no
surprise twists, with the A-list cast here you can bet that they are
all roles which offer a slight challenge, and to see how what we have
assumed is the rabbit of the group, able to flip the other way round
gradually to reveal some violent, inner ambition.

One of the selling points here is of course watching Adrien Brody play
the brooding action hero complete with bulging biceps and washboard
stomach. The lack of young, emerging alpha-males in the action genre
has somehow led to dramatic actors such as Jake Gyllenhaal and now
Brody to hit the gym to buff up for films that require the baring of
torso, to make the characters they play more believable, since they are
soldiers of sorts hell bent on saving the day. Laurence Fishburne did
what he could with his limited appearance in becoming the oracle that
is to educate everyone on what conditions are like on the unnamed
planet.

But one thing that will be missed, is those frequent POVs as seen
through the Predator's eyes and hi-tech helmet. The filmmakers seem to
want to steer clear of this since it doesn't offer anything new, but I
always thought it was cool to adopt the Predator's first perspective.
That aside, Predators delivered when it mattered, even though the story
seemed like a shade of the original, and the aliens aren't really using
the entire plethora of weapons available to them. One can continuously
make the Predator films since this one opened doors, and it'll be
interesting to see how others apply their take on the mythos now.
<|_=00=_|>
In a season of remakes, re-imagining's and sequels, Predators certainly
lives up to what's expected of it. It's a re-imagining of the classic
80's action movie which had Arnie take the reigns as the leader of a
super band of commando's being hunted by an extra terrestrial in the
middle of the (jungle), and ended up spawning quite a franchise,
consisting of a sequel, and 2 movie mash ups, the Alien vs. Predator
films. Fans of the original and followers of the franchise can be
forgiven for being weary of this remake (after all, I was), but believe
me, Predators is the best in the series since the original.

Predators, as the name suggests, features more than 1, which alone
makes you wonder how true to the original this will be. Well, the movie
approaches this question in a strange way. First, it takes the original
premise of a band of elite warriors being hunted by an unstoppable
alien menace, and gives quite a unique and refreshing twist, delivering
another band of elite warriors, but this time being hunted by 3
Predators, and on THEIR planet, rather than Earth. Then on top of this,
Predators takes much of what made the original great; the cheesy
dialogue, the big guns, the crude humour, and even some of the same
great moments, and adds them in to give Predators its own unique style,
while still paying a worthy homage to the classic. There are some
direct references to please the original fans, but it's not spoiled by
filling it with references that only the die-hard fans would understand
like many other movies are. Most of the action scene's deliver and the
fire fights are well done. The scenery of the planet is beautiful
(though it's actually only Hawaii), and the movie generally has a good
pace, despite some times where this falters. And I have to award bonus
points for the movie's opening: it was a unique way of introducing us
to the situation, and without giving too much away, it sucks you in,
even if it is a little far-fetched. 

But don't get too excited, the movie definitely has its problems. Some
of the dialogue, especially of one character is just bad, and I'm still
not sure whether or not it tried to do it purposely and just failed, or
if the writers just scribbled down anything they could think of at the
last minute. Then there's also some back-story and deeper meaning to
the entire Predator universe and their scenario, which is nice, but at
times it really drags on and takes the rest of the movie down with it.
There's also one specific scene, which includes a homage to the
original, but is ridiculous, and apart from the reference, it's almost
laughable. One of the biggest things that got me though, and it may not
annoy others, is the amount of Predator screeches and screams. It
seemed as though every 5 minutes, another Predator was screaming for
some unknown reason. Maybe he didn't hit what he was aiming for, maybe
he trod on a sharp rock, or maybe his Predator wife left him and he's
not taking too well, but any way I don't care what's happened, so
please stop screaming at me! The casting is strange to say the least.
Adrien Brody, trying to channel the essence of Schwarzenegger, and who
would have been my last pick as an action hero, pulls off the role
surprising well. Most of the actors perform satisfyingly, and the brief
appearances by Laurence Fishburne and Danny Trejo are a nice touch. My
only queries with the casting are that of Topher Grace. He spends the
entire movie seeming out of place, not quite fitting in to the
situation, and at no point is he even slightly convincing as the
character he is meant to portray. 

Predators was released with some big shoes that it knew it had to fill,
and so instead of trying to outdo the original or be new and fresh, it
uses what made the original great to its advantage. I must say kudos to
Nimrod Antal for directing, and kudos to the make-up department,
because they definitely outdid themselves with this project. Predators
is a refreshing shot in the arm to a nearly dead franchise, and stands
out in the ocean of movie remakes and sequels that Hollywood is
churning out. For what it's designed to be, an action blockbuster
popcorn flick, it definitely delivers.
<|_=00=_|>
It is important to note that despite it's perspicuous title, Nimrod
Antal's "Predators" is no reboot of its establishing material. It's a
honest-to-goodness sequel to the first two Predators films; a long
awaited one at that after a couple of detours into the realm of
crossovers into the "Alien" universe. It does however represent a
stylistic update and intriguing expansion of the franchise's filmic
mythology that also spans Dark Horse Comics' graphic novels and its
video games.

However, if there ever were to be a more convincing statement of intent
in relaunching this franchise, it would have been putting its marquee
producer Robert Rodriguez to work in a film so suited to his aesthetics
and stylistic idiosyncrasies. But Rodriquez's pick to helm this film
almost proves to be reason enough to watch this given that Nimrod Antal
is one of the most exciting directors around these days. Antal's
direction has always coincided with his a strong sense of atmosphere
and character development. With his fascinating debut, "Kontroll" and
his cleverly constructed meta-slasher, "Vacancy" as well as with last
year's taut action spectacle "Armored", Antal has shown himself to be
an effective genre director in that he's both comfortable in affirming
a particular genre as he is deconstructing it. And in "Predators", he
infuses it with not just a showcase of tried and tested sci-fi ideals
but also a discernible impression of a robust horror film.

Antal keeps things moving along at an exhilarating pace by introducing
a rag-tag team of mercenaries and criminals getting air-dropped into a
highly tropical and vegetative alien planet tailored by the ruthless
and single-minded Predator race as a game reserve for the
insufficiently armed humans and other prey. Its mise-en-scene
immediately hearkens back to the jungle warfare of the first
"Predator". As the movie gods demand, the herd gets thinned as the race
of alien hunters reveal themselves to be superior in both their
technology and understanding of game theory. Kept alive by de facto
leader, the preternaturally perspicacious Royce (Adrien Brody), the
band of humans begin to formulate their plan of survival against the
truly fearsome Predators and their formidable weaponry.

Brody's presence seems almost folly at first ¬ñ a gruff vocal inflection
worthy of Christian Bale's in "The Dark Knight" underscores a
predictably rote tough guy but to his credit, a good actor always
manages to sell his act despite himself. Like his character, who sees
no virtue in human connection but instead adopts a ranger-like approach
to survival, Brody doesn't seem to create much chemistry with his cast
mates in his relatively new role as action hero. The rest of its main
supporting cast are split of into archetypes ¬ñ Alice Braga is Isabelle,
an Israeli soldier and its burgeoning conscience, Topher Grace plays
Dr. Edwin, the geeky comic relief and notably, the talented Walter
Goggins of TV's "The Shield" and "Justified" is the smarmy
knife-wielding death-row convict, Stans. Also, rounding of the
surviving humans is the reticent Yakuza gangster, Hanzo (Louis Ozawa
Changchien) and the relatively noble Chechnyan soldier, Nikolai (Oleg
Taktarov).

Antal manages this character list well enough. As the chase progresses,
you get a distinct feel of each human before they start to fall victim
to their raison d'√™tre. Besides a late flurry of actual and conspicuous
violence, "Predators" actually fares better in its early scenes where
the humans explore their predicament and the film plays the suspense
card remarkably well. There's an actual interest in finding out the
psyches of these mysterious humans who are hunters and monsters on
Earth but scurrying mice on the Predator's turf.

If anything else, the script provides little genuine surprises in it
storytelling. Given its inherent similarities, the film bares a
stunning amount of resemblance to last year's terrific "Pandorum" ¬ñ
where a space crew wakes up with no memory onboard a vessel designed as
a Noah's Ark of sorts to vicious creatures hunting them. There's a
scene with Laurence Fishburne as the planet's loony veteran survivor
that cribs more than just mood but actual dialogue from the superior
film.

"Predators" doesn't change the game too much but as far as delivering a
solid and experience to its fanbase, it releases itself from the
shackles of relying on crossovers and re-establishes the Predator as
one of Hollywood's most fertile sources of sci-fi villains.
<|_=00=_|>
Predators is directed by Nimr√≥d Antal and stars Adrien Brody, Topher
Grace, Alice Braga, Laurence Fishburne, Oleg Taktarov & Danny Trejo.
It's co-produced out of 20th Century Fox by Robert Rodriguez, John
Davis & Elizabeth Avellan, with writing credits going to Michael Finch,
Alex Litvak and Jim & John Thomas. It's shot on location in the
Hawaiian jungle with Gyula Pados on cinematography, while John Debney
reworks Alan Silvestri's score from the 1987 film Predator.

The plot sees eight former members of Earth - mercenaries, soldiers,
criminals and a doctor, who are literally dropped into a jungle on an
alien planet. Why or how they got there is not known, but pretty soon
it is apparent they must work together for they are being hunted by an
unseen enemy. Hunted, it seems, for sport.

In 1987 John McTierrnan gave the movie world Predator, a ballsy Vietnam
allegory that pitted Arnold Schwarzenegger and a host of other
considerably sized beefcakes against one bad ass mandible wearing alien
hunter. Since then the franchise has steadily got worse (though the
Danny Glover led sequel is far from a disaster), reaching a crushingly
bad nadir with Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem in 2007. Enter Robert
Rodriguez who in the mid 90s had done a treatment for a Predator sequel
- with Schwarzenegger in mind to return. However, it didn't happen and
it's only now, with the franchise at rock bottom, that his script has
been reworked and funded to give us Predators, the sequel to
McTiernan's 87 ball buster.

The set up is a little different but in truth the formula is exactly
the same as the original movie. Macho guys and a girl in the jungle are
being hunted by something very bad. Alpha male, though, is not going to
take it lying down, cue deaths, explosions and much macho posturing.
Here in is the main problem with Antal' s movie, it's ticking the same
boxes whilst homaging for all it's worth, which is fine since it's
hugely entertaining in that Saturday night popcorn way. But there's
little to no braveness in the writing. Sure there's some bonuses in the
form of alien pets, a predator feud arc and a bonkers midsection with
the introduction of another character. Yet as the carnage unfolds, the
plot doesn't go anywhere other than where we expect it to go, while
there's a huge character misstep in the final third that is more
laughable than being the twister it's obviously meant to be.

However, if taken purely as a piece of salted popcorn, the film
delivers enough thrills and excitement to warrant the viewing because
the action comes thick and fast. From the breathtaking opening as we
are literally dropped into the jungle with Adrien Brody, to the
inevitable face off for the finale, we have been treated to stabs,
chops, thrusts, dismemberment's, beheadings and everyones personal fave
- spine ripping! All this and there's barely any blood spilt, lest the
green kind counts of course? While the new look predators are awesome,
more meaner in tone, with new armour and devoid of the pointless
characterisation that others in the franchise have tried to give them,
these are unremitting killers, lets leave them like that please! And
while it lacks the dark humour of McTiernan's movie, it does have a wry
sense of knowing, normally with the portrayal of Royce by Brody.

Brody is just fine, it's a performance that shows that should he ever
want to make the easy money available in action/adventure type movies?
Then he will have no problem getting work. He's buffed up, given
himself a gruffer voice and more than shows a capable hand at punching,
firing and sticking the tongue firmly in cheek. The others,
unsurprisingly, are walking clich√©s, with some obviously only there to
be deathly slotted more quickly than the others. The fun here is in
waiting to see who gets it first/next and etc. It has to be said,
though, that Topher Grace is not only annoying, he's also very miscast,
but in fairness he's not exactly helped by the writing of his character
either.

Not great but hugely enjoyable popcorn fodder. A sequel would be
welcome, but with Rodriguez directing and a new face on the writing
panel. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
It seems to me that anyone watching this will probably have already
seen the original 1987 Predator starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, and
probably most of the other movies featuring the predator race. If
that's true, then you've nothing to gain by seeing this - those who
suggest it's new material must have seen a different movie.

In the previews, a big deal is made about how this film is different -
new super predators, multiple alien species, takes place on an alien
planet, etc. Sadly, the differences are actually minimal, and this is
simply a study in plagiarism.

Largely military personnel are cut down by a group of predators. Sorry,
super predators. You can tell the difference because they're a few
inches taller, have bigger teeth, and their shoulder mounted canons
have a different special effect. Should have spotted that.

They're in a jungle. Oh, but not an earth jungle (despite one character
recognising and naming the plant life from his knowledge of Earth based
plants - incidentally, allegedly a doctor, not a botanist, which is a
curiosity in itself).

When you add to this mix one female member of the group to match the
mix in the original, the predator whispers from the first movie (not
used in a similar way, the same words, which the predator copied from
hearing Mac say them in the first movie, but are not spoken by humans
in this one...), the same lines being delivered by the main characters
as Arnie used, precise duplications of specific camera shots, similar
traps as Arnie made towards the end of the first movie, and a final
battle between a mud covered human and the last remaining predator, and
so on, and so forth.

Yes, there are some differences. For instance, the action starts almost
right away, with no chance to meet the main characters and know
anything about them as happens in the first, they are just thrown into
the action and left to fend for themselves, with nothing but some crap
dialogue and, oh, magically, a similar assortment of weapons as Arnie's
team.

I watched aghast as the characters are slaughtered one by one. Not
because I cared about them, but because so much more could have been
done with them before they're offed. The Russian spetsnaz guy, elite
special forces, probably the toughest, best trained special forces
personnel in the world, is shown to be a trigger happy moron. I know
it's an American movie and they have to show US forces as the be all
end all of the world's fighting men, but please, this is ridiculous.
The yakuza finds an old samurai blade to wield (and uses one of his few
lines as a copy of one in Predator 2 commenting that they've been doing
this a while) - convenient that the only old fashioned weapon there was
just what he was proficient in using, don't you think. And what does he
get to do with it? Anybody else seen Seven Samurai? Yep, plagiarism
again as he uses it to duel with the predator, having stayed behind to
fight him - just like Billy from the first movie, amazingly enough.

I would give this movie one star for it's weak story, weak script, poor
acting and unashamed duplication of other films if it wasn't for a
great performance from Laurence Fishburne which was sadly far too
short, and again, his character was utterly wasted. Still, his few
minutes of screen time lift my vote to three stars... albeit
grudgingly.

I expected more of a movie with Robert Rodriguez pulling the strings
even if it was Hungarian director Nimrod Antal at the helm. I even fell
into that old Hollywood hype trap and expected at least halfway decent
entertainment for my money having seen the trailer - but the most
promising scene in the trailer, where the protagonist is lit up by
multiple red dot sights from shoulder canons doesn't actually appear in
the film at all.

If you want more predator action in your life, go rent the original
again - it may be dated and a bit cheesy in places, but it's a far
better way to spend your money, even if you have already seen it many
times over.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got out of the premier for Predators and let me say I wasn't
disappointed at all. The acting was solid as a rock, every scene just
stood out and the movie kept you interested throughout its entirety.

It was interesting to see how each character was unique in their own
way and the movie was full of twists and all of the questions popping
in my head while watching it were answered.

There was a nice amount of gore but, it was not overdone and I enjoyed
that a lot. 

I won't get into too much of detail but I will say that any predator
fan or even someone who likes a good action/thriller should watch this
movie. It was worth the 9 dollars I spent and I wouldn't even mind
watching it again in the theaters.

I had been anticipating this movie for over a year and my prayers were
answered. Thank you Robert Rodriquez and Nimrod Antal for not letting
me down. This movie has absolutely rebooted the predator franchise and
I can't wait to see what is in store for the future.

GO WATCH THIS MOVIE.
<|_=00=_|>
what is wrong with most of you????????? this movie was made so poor, it
promised so much but delivered very little. if you get through the
first 40 Min's of the movie without falling asleep you have done well
as the character building was bad bad bad, all the characters had
something stolen from the original movie. if you are a big fan of the
first movie you will be disappointed as they have taken everything
which made predator original and copied in some way for this movie. i
lost count of the amount of lines stolen from the first, characters
were the same, music was the same, it had everything from Blaine's
character being replaced with some other army guy with the same chain
gun!!!, Billy's character replaced with a Yakuza who's end was built up
the same as Billy's even the music the same. Adrian Brody had developed
the Christian bale voice at times and even used Arnie's classic line
from the first "do it do it now kill me" his fight with the super black
predator was a joke and made the predator look so dumb. if this movie
could not of got any worse they decided to put a serial killer in the
mix of it all which i am sorry was just done awful as he decides to
show his evil side at the point which he has just been captured by the
predators (so he should be scared right, serial killer or not, looking
for way out right, looking for help with his fellow prisoner right,
wrong he will just decide to try and kill her in he mix of it all, so
bad. Laurence Fishburne not much to say here really but what a waste of
time and guess what they stole classic lines from the first movie again
with him. the lack of predators was a disappointment as was the lack of
hunting by them, they also seemed to forgot that the predators have
some pretty good weapons but chose to use none of them in this movie
(maybe 2 or 3 shoulder cannon shots but that is it, not even the
classic spear was in this. i did watch this movie with 3 others who all
were very very disappointed. oh and one more thing remember the trailer
when Adrian Brody had about 20 predator target aims all over his body,
yeah this did not happen try just ONE instead, to sum up a pile of
crap.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading the reviews and watching the trailer, I was excited to
see the movie. One word...terrible. Have you ever started watching a
movie and it didn't start off very good, but you think to yourself,
'Hmmm, I did just pay $10 to see this movie. I'll just stick it out.
I'm sure it gets good.' Then as you continue on in the movie the
writing gets worse, the music doesn't fit, and the acting is
questionable, but again you think, 'Okay. It's been like 45 minutes,
i'm sure its gonna get good now. It's really too late to leave. What if
I leave and then it gets good. No. No. I'll just stay.' And the movie
continues to get worse and worse. By the end you are upset and think,
'Okay this is the end. Please, please redeem yourself. Dazzle me.' Ugh,
the ending is god awful. You walk out of the movie theater feeling
disgusting for falling for such a sham. Then this supposed 'action'
film starts playing this completely random song that sounds like
Rockin' Robin by Little Richie... What?! Didn't this battle just happen
between human and Predator and now you are playing a Rockin' Robin
sound-a-like song? Odd. Cheesy, Clich√©, Predictable, and Out of place.
They spend more time showing the entire cast come through a door rather
than showing them make traps which they out of the blue start talking
about. "They see our traps." What? What traps? Did you see them make
any traps? No, but I did spend 2 minutes watching the entire cast climb
through a door. If you start watching the movie and you start getting
that feeling like 'Hmmm, this is terrible. Nah, I'm sure it will get
good.' I suggest you trust your gut, leave before you reach the half
way point, and get your money back. Epic fail.
