
Saw this last night on the big screen, not expecting much but hoping to
be entertained. Sadly that didn't happen. Why? I has to have been the
movie's writing and the way it was directed. It just never got started,
and while the actors' delivery in the various scenes had to have been
what the director wanted, it just never rang true. I'll leave off any
explanation of the plot and story line, others have done a great job at
that. I'll just stick to what I feel are the failings of the directing
and writing.

The movie starts out well enough, we get the transformation of the
formerly bullied fatty 'Rob Wierdich' into the now huge and muscular
Rob Stone and how this man now re-enters the life of co-protagonist
Calvin Joyner, a man whose great high school promise has in his own
estimation fizzled. Stone is over-the-top enthusiastic and presumptive
while Joyner plays the baffled and grudgingly accommodating nebbish.
But it is carried on too long, straining for the laugh. Hart as Joyner
goes from normal speaking voice to Chris Rock style falsetto screeching
with apparently little provocation and Dwaine Johnson's Rob Stone plays
his overplayed huge smile and light hearted repartee gag so often that
it becomes tiresome and distracting.

The mishandled opportunities in the movie get worse as it goes on. Late
in the movie comes the anticipated high school reunion. The movie's
makers seem to have had no idea how to tastefully or effectively tie it
all up and make a satisfying conclusion to the story. The principal
bully who has harassed and humiliated Stone throughout the movie could
have been dealt his come-uppance in some turnabout humiliation of his
own, and I was expecting and even looking forward to this. Instead the
writers blew this chance and had Stone simply haul off and knock the
far smaller man unconscious with a single blow to the head, in front of
the whole crowd. Nice. Way to transform your hero.

More disturbing by far is the next scene in which Stone takes the stage
and while accepting an honor, begins to take off clothing. No... he's
not going to... but yes. Not only do the writers have Stone strip off
his shirt to show off his muscles in a display of vanity, they have him
strip completely naked, to the ooo's and ah's of the assembled crowd,
and then walk around like a regular dance attendee. What was the
purpose of the full nudity? Are we supposed to believe that Stone has
altered his genitalia to the better as well as his muscles? (while it
isn't shown of course, the implication that Stone is totally nude is
clear when Stone tries to hug Joyner and the latter says, "Not now with
your junk hanging out!"

I'm not offended at the scene, but I really have to wonder what
motivated the writers to think they were advancing the story arc with
this uncomfortable and implausible gag. What were they thinking? It's
just weird.

Lots of action scenes, cool stunts, but the story was dealt a poor
telling.
<|_=00=_|>
Forget about the formulaic spies plot and its flaws, the film does not
look silly for the wise decision of making it into a comedy and it
sparks thanks to the strong rapport between Johnson and Hart. The
thriller may seems to be dumb and lack of inventiveness in all the
right ways but it is also a bit smarter than what audiences could have
expected. The hilarious but not nonsense actions, sweet high- school
buddies friendships, comedy about bullies and inspiration to transform
a better oneself however are all blended well into this
lack-of-originality thriller; though insufficient to generate big
humors, it is still able to keep your smile till the end. The film
centralises on the delightful chemistry between the two actors, both
Hart and Johnson deliver a cheerful bromantic, especially the latter
who takes his character and silliness seriously other than just knowing
to flex muscles. It might lack in depth to explain about the quest of
the mission but it is overall entertaining due to the commitment of the
cast to bring us laughter.
<|_=00=_|>
Recently a lot of Kevin Hart's movies have been pretty lack luster. The
Ride Along movies and Get Hard were shredded by critics. When I saw the
trailer for Central Intelligence, I thought this would be just another
one of those flicks. Thankfully, I was very wrong! The page here lists
the film as an "action, comedy, crime" movie but really it is more of a
"action, comedy, drama" flick. Dwayne Johnson plays the gentle giant
Bob Stone/Robby Weirdicht (haha pun) who works for the CIA while Kevin
Hart plays the everyday joe Calvin Joyner (a nice change of pace in my
opinion). These two are the reason this film works as pure
entertainment. They have great chemistry together and they play rather
interesting characters. Robby is on the same level as Jason Bourne when
it comes to hand to hand combat and other spy stuff like that but he
has the sensitivity and the tastes of a fourteen year old girl. I don't
care who you are, you have to admit that's hilarious. Calvin was the
favorite student of his high school but now he is just a washed up
accountant upset with where his life has gone. Hart and Johnson bring
some real comedy to their roles as well as true conviction. You can
believe that these two are dealing with some real emotional problems. I
never thought of either of them as good actors but they do a splendid
job here. The stunts they pull also look so very realistic. They are
very thrilling and pretty creative too. Now the movie isn't without
problems-what movie is? The spy portion of the plot is pretty straight
forward and shallow. It's obviously just an excuse to get these two
together but is that really such a bad thing when what they are
offering is so good? Central Intelligence is kind of like that movie
Twins with Arnold Schwarzenegger and Danny Devito. Two popular actors
play as comic foils to one another as well as provide great drama with
some cool stunts thrown in. What more could you want?
<|_=00=_|>
From the guy behind Dodgeball: a true underdog story and We're the
Millers comes another Buddy Cop/Spy comedy starring Kevin Hart. Central
Intelligence marks the second time this year that we have seen Kevin
Hart in a movie where he forms an unlikely friendship with his
nicknamed co-star (Ice Cube or The Rock) while he also shoots, fights
and back flips his way to save the day.

As opposed to Ride Along, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson plays Bob Stone in
a subverted role than one might expect of the peoples champ. The Rock
does a pretty good job as the Optomistically enthusiastic, unicorn
loving CIA agent, bringing the action star to the screen as well as a
more softer and comical side of the Brahma Bull. The film also features
entertaining performances/ cameos from several actors; such as Aaron
Paul (Who can't stop himself from calling someone a Bitch), Jason
Bateman (Who plays a more comical version of his character from The
Gift), Amy Ryan and even Melissa McCarthy. As for Kevin Hart, Kevin
Hart is Kevin Hart... Enough said.

The film itself is formulaic, two polar opposites bond over a case they
work together... The formula of every buddy cop movie out there. At the
close the Rock gives a speech bout being who you are and standing up t
bullies, if the film could have maybe delivered that message better or
at all then we could be looking at a better film here. The film just
felt a bit bland story line wise.

My biggest issue with this film is that it feels censored. I can't help
but feel that with 2 major studios backing the film that there must be
some major studio interference taking place. There are many scenes that
I felt didn't work because of cuts and edits to create a 12A film in
the hope to widen the films audience. This is a film that definitely
needed a certificate boost to be more entertaining, the humour needed
to be ruder for Kevin Hart to work and the action needed more blood and
detail to grip an audience. The film just felt tame and too safe and so
not particularly entertaining, plus the ending was cheesy as hell God
Damn.

Overall Central Intelligence is a film that I feel was ruined by studio
interference. The high point is definitely the Rock (but when is he
not?) as he plays a different character to what you would expect pretty
well. The story is unoriginal and the humour works on occasion but
ultimately the film falls flat. What this film needs is a 15 rated
Directors cut which I pray Rawson Marshall Thurber releases. The film
isn't good but on the bright side it doesn't look like it has
completely hit Rock Bottom.
<|_=00=_|>
Started well, but sadly went down hill. I really expected great things
from this movie after all the two main characters can be extremely
funny, sadly this was not the case. I felt the plot also let it down,
leaving me with a lot of fun unanswered questions, don't get me wrong
it's a comedy so I don't expect in depth thought provoking scrip, but
come on guys! I felt both lead actors were let down by the script, what
I would describe as " a fluffy film " . I personally couldn't get to
grips with Dwyne Johnsons character at all, seemed a little slow
witted, yet works as a CIA operative? Not that I care either way but
also they seemed to have made him gay I think, but to be honest I'm not
sure, as I say lots of holes in both the script and sorry to say the
acting.

OK so would I recommend you going to watch the at the cinema? In short
no, wait till its on TV I'm not saying it's not worth watching, but I
wouldn't waste your money going to the cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
Here comes another buddy cop film,this time with Dwayne Johnson and
Kevin Hart in the lead roles.I thought this movie would fail
miserably.I thought it was ripping off Ride Along(which is not a good
film to rip off) but it surprisingly stands on its own and makes for a
fun time at the movies.Bob Stone asks his old classmate,Calvin Joyner
to help him with his computer skills.I don't really like Kevin Hart all
that much,because he plays the same character in every film and even
though he does have acting skills,he goes OTT in every performance.But
his character is a bit more serious in this one and Dwayne Johnson is
awesome as ever in his role.The main strength of this movie is the
chemistry between the 2 leads.They are so much fun to watch.One is a
fearless agent and the other a normal guy who can't even hold a
gun.There are some nice jokes and gags as well.

On the downside,the film falters sometimes in the plot section.Yet
another OTT performance by Kevin Hart(as mentioned above) I wish the
action scenes had a bit more lustre in them.But do not be bothered by
that because this is the action junkie in me speaking,and you may like
this movie more than I did.

This movie isn't completely flawless,nor is it totally groundbreaking
in the buddy cop genre.But it is still worth watching in the
theatre,thanks to the chemistry between the 2 leads and a lot of
laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
When a film has a tagline as witty and sharp as Central Intelligence's
 "Saving the world takes a little Hart and a big Johnson"  something
tells me that the producers came up with that pun first and decided to
commission a script around it after. True enough, this film is an
excuse to have Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson and Kevin Hart play
delightfully silly characters amidst a fairly disposable plot. It
really doesn't matter because you won't see this film for a complex
plot, you'll see this film for some good laughs. The hit-to-miss ratio
is surprisingly higher than you expect.

In Central Intelligence, Johnson plays a formerly morbidly obese high
school student named Robbie Wierdicht (yes, it's pronounced as Weird
Dick, hah!) who was subjected to a horribly cruel prank twenty years
ago. He now resurfaces as Bob Stone, a herculean CIA agent who decides
to reunite with his only friend in high school, Calvin "The Golden Jet"
Joyner (Hart)  back then Central High's "most likely to succeed"
student. Ironically, he is now living an unexceptional adult life as a
mid-level accountant stuck in a rocky marriage. Little does Calvin
know, what started as a mysterious Facebook friend request to a casual
catch-up is Stone's silent attempt to enlist Calvin as his unwilling
sidekick in a deadly mission to track down stolen U.S. satellite codes
and stop a wanted kingpin called the "Black Badger" from obtaining
them.

In his previous comedies (Ride Along and Get Hard), Hart is often
portrayed as a fast- talking shtick at the center of attention. In this
film, We're The Miller's director Rawson Marshall Thurber, who co-
wrote the script with Bob Fisher and Steve Faber, breaks this
stereotype by subduing Hart to a serious straight-up role and giving
the goofy prankster role to Johnson (responsible for pulling off most
of the verbal and physical gags). The role reversal works with the
slapstick comedy thanks to both actors' exhilarating chemistry and
sharp performance. Their size juxtaposition alone is a joke in itself.
"Pint-sized" squeaky-voiced Hart, with all his outbursts and babbling,
mixes panic and rage probably better than any actor. As for Johnson, he
keeps up with expectations here whether by simply donning fanny packs,
unicorn t-shirts, and uber-tight pajamas; or flaunting his cartoonish
manliness against a character who is surprisingly sensitive and still
embarrassed with his past. Central Intelligence is given more depth
when it deals with our main characters' high school baggage  Calvin's
frustration on his life turning not the way he expected, and Bob's
self-esteem issues due to the serious and lasting effects of bullying.

Don't get me wrong, the exhausting espionage plot struggles to have any
shred of intelligence to it. It is quite perfunctory to the point that
it might as well fade into a background noise. It even falls apart to
utter nonsense by the end when the plot twist is revealed and judging
by their focus on comedy, the filmmakers seems to be fine leaving the
plot holes unpatched. Neither are the villains written with deep
thought as they are all cardboard bad guys who are homophobes, bullies,
mercenaries or a combination thereof. Apart from the comedy itself, the
film apologizes in its shortcomings by boasting a roster of cameos that
I'll leave unmentioned for the sake of surprise.

You can groan at its dumb plot, get antsy over action scenes where no
one (not even trained CIA gunmen) can shoot straight or frown at Calvin
and Stone whispering strategies whilst pointed with guns, but Central
Intelligence is hard to dislike because Johnson and Hart shine
perfectly in their roles and hence, elevate this film from subpar to
moderately enjoyable. Without them, this film will be as useful as a
bag of rocks. That being said, Central Intelligence can be a good
distraction during a hot summer day.
<|_=00=_|>
I just have to say that this film inspired me to write a review because
of the bad acting as I just wasted a good 90 minutes of my life.

I love action and I love comedy as the fusion keeps it interesting. The
problem is I don't think there was any action and the comedy I must
have missed it as I was in too much pain 

The story was you usual Hollywood plot with no depth of all. The
attempt to put a twist into the movie made it even more annoying. 

At first, the bad acting I thought was part of the show but it just
continued.

The highlight of the film was the finish as I was put out of pain, the

closing blooper was probably the funniest part of the show.
<|_=00=_|>
"Saving the World Takes a Little Hart and a Big Johnson". I doubt I
have ever passed a film poster before and dissolved into paroxysms of
mirth, so this film at least wins one award with me. 

The story is pretty inconsequential, and used as a framework to build
set pieces around. Kevin Hart ("Ride Along") plays Calvin Joyner  the
life and soul of his high school and the guy voted 'Most likely to
succeed'. He's also a nice guy, sensitively covering the modesty of
overweight loser Robbie Wheirdicht (a good Dwayne Johnson lookalike
actually played by internet wedding-dance sensation Sione Kelepi) after
he's been ridiculed by bullies in front of the whole school.

But sometimes life doesn't go to plan and twenty year's later Calvin
may have married his high school sweetheart Maggie (Danielle Nicolet)
but has ended up in a low-level forensic accountancy job and not where
he wants to be. 

Robbie on the other hand has transformed his life and physique to
become Bob Stone (Dwayne Johnson), a man with a 'certain set of skills'
and, as it turns out, a rogue CIA operative. Bob is on the trail of
financial codes to help identify the location of the traitorous 'Black
Badger' who killed his long-term partner Stanton (Aaron Paul). But the
Black Badger could be anyone, and the CIA lead (Amy Ryan) suspects it
might actually be Stone. With the stakes rising the inept Joyner needs
to make a decision on who to trust and who to fear.

The comedy lead Kevin Hart previously impressed with "Get Hard" and
raises a few laughs in this one, notably with his attempt at his
signature flip twenty years later than he should have attempted it!
Johnson's character is written to be just plain weird and with
Johnson's limited acting range (think Arnie in "Jingle All The Way")
it's a performance that is on the outlandish side of bizarre. Together
the duo make for a likable pair but this is a very lightweight comedy
and is generally a smile-along rather than a laugh-along. It is also
uneven in tone, occasionally straying into highly un-comedic territory:
a throat- ripping out scene anyone? 

The director is Rawson Marshall Thurber who previously directed the
better comedy "Dodgeball" and the far worse "We're the Millers". So
that should set your expectations.

A fairly ho-hum comedy which might entertain you on a long plane flight
but is not worth forking out much cash to rent.

(Please visit http://bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical version of
this review. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
It's quite possible that they cast Kevin Hart and Dwayne Johnson just
to make "Little Hart, Big Johnson" pun. As far as buddy cop goes, this
contrasting nature can provide some chuckles, however the espionage
them might not hit all the marks. Still, there are significant amount
of scenes where laughter is secured by sheer timely body language and
jokes alone.

Dwayne Johnson plays as Bob, a CIA agent who tries to reach out to his
old friend. This escalates into a chase for secret files and national
security. The way Bob is presented relies heavily on juvenile gag and
demeanor despite his imposing physique, this is fun at first but it
hampers the credibility as an agent. The movie wants to add some
bullying subplot which is commendable, although it doesn't have the
depth to accommodate it.

Kevin Hart is excellent in creating reactions and gestures. He's
surprisingly identifiable with high school nostalgia and occasional
self-doubt. Many of the good moments come from his outbursts and
babbling. The script has a few nifty pop references and sometimes even
witty gags, so the comedy is not just slapstick throughout and
undermines the "intelligence" in the title.

There are serious undertones of adult life or self-acceptance even
though they are not fully fleshed out. Action is pretty light, it's
passable without being too demanding. The most important thing is it's
enjoyable. Sure, there are a few awkward moments, yet they make the
best out of it to present a light humorous spectacle, a better buddy
cop gimmick than expected.
