
I would like to start by saying i am a fan of films that are
"different". I don't need a million gunshots or explosions to entertain
me. I am not set on good guy vs bad guy and good guy winning. I like
thought provoking films; i enjoy them much more than the soul sucking
films that are manufactured on a daily basis. So i was intrigued by
this one. The trailer was dark and seemed full of suspense. The critics
had made bold comparisons with Stanley Kubrick, which in itself is a
massive compliment. And as someone who lives in Scotland it had a
little sentiment to it. 

But for me it was dull. Every time i thought it was going to pick up
the pace, it decelerated. It was so slow it may as well have been going
backwards. There are far too many scenes that are prolonged. I am fully
aware of its intention to focus on aesthetically driven scenes. But 5/6
seconds is enough to appreciate it, not 10/15 seconds. At some points i
thought the reel had maybe stuck and was expecting a CineWorld employee
to come pacing round the corner to explain that there was something
wrong. It just pauses at points that don't need that much attention. I
am also aware of the symbolic nature the film carries. It is clearly a
film you need to look further to understand it in more depth. That is
fine; i welcome that, but the problem is that it does this without
conviction. I don't need to see the masses of drunkards who swarm
Sauchiehall Street 20 times. What is the purpose? To let us know that
we, as people, blindly walk through life intoxicated not appreciating
the finer things in life? That Under the skin we are empty? I assume
that is a candidate for its meaning.

Scarlett Johansson doesn't have a lot to do in this film; basically
make small talk and get naked, all the while with a plain face. And
considering how ridiculous the Scottish actors are made to look, maybe
she is due some credit for maintaining that straight face. There are a
few things that bug me however; like she can walk down your average
staircase, but panics with a spiral staircase. There is a definite
point to this film, but with the layout, with there being no real
culmination, no real explanation, it leaves you feeling you have been
robbed of a film that could have been more. Could have told a better
story. And for any Americans who watch, not all Scottish people talk
like that, or wear horrible purple shirts, unnecessarily tucking them
into our over elevated jeans. We don't all support Hibs and when a van
is parked not all of us will gang up and try to break into the van. So
feel free to visit. It is a nice place after all. Although the film had
some stunning scenes and promotes Scotland visually, it doesn't exactly
put the people in a great light. 

I wanted to enjoy this film, but i couldn't. I wanted to agree with
comparisons with Kubrick, but i certainly won't. You can throw
arguments of it was beautifully crafted or had symbolic serenity, but
at the end of the day it is slow, uneventful and lacked culmination.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit that I did not see the first minutes of the film.
Neither have I read the book therefore I will write about this film as
if it was a piece of art on its own, which it is.

Under the Skin is a new picture from Jonathan Glazer, who has also
directed Birth with Nicole Kidman and some music videos for bands like
Radiohead. The main character, alien Laura, is played by the famous
actress Scarlett Johansson.

Firstly, there is no obvious narrative in this film, because it does
not have a big significance or importance here. On the most basic level
it is a story of an alien imposing a woman and seducing men from all
over Scotland in order to drain their flesh. This is the most simple
summary of the movie. On deeper layers it is a serious study of our
society. The film's main focus is on the inside and outside of things,
the philosophy of form and material. Johansson's character is
struggling in this society. She is always portrayed as going against
the stream, she is lost in the sea of rushing people who do not want to
get deeper into things, because they know they could be hurt. This is
represented in a very subtle visual way. For instance, roses look nice
in the film, but they have spikes which make rose seller's hands bleed.
A piece of cake seems delicious, but the taste of it is disgusting. It
is always the fight between the surface and depth in this film, the
first impression and further investigation. I believe it is a very
important theme for our society where people are afraid of making
commitments or engagements, where they seek for quick pleasures, even
though they need true and honest love. The film is very strong visually
and stylistically. In order for the reader to get a glimpse of what it
is, I will say that it is sort of a combination of Kubrick, Lynch and
von Trier.

Kubrick - for using clever cinematic language, for all the subliminal
messages that are there like a sign on a building saying "Open 24"
which is pretty ironic as nobody in the film is truly open. The
director deliberately plays with this open and closed concept a lot.
The music is somewhat similar to Eyes Wide Shut's too and I think it is
used to the fullest in Under the Skin as a form of expression. One can
also feel the influence of 2001: A Space Odyssey with all those shots
of abstract liquids and close-ups of a human eye.

Lynch - for the dreamy, surreal sequences and the guy with the ugly
face. I see it as a direct reference to his film The Elephant Man where
he also talks about the inner beauty of a human being.

Von Trier - for the sea scene (Breaking the Waves), for the foggy
scenes in the woods (Antichrist). Like it usually happens with von
Trier's work, someone might blame this film of cheap shock value. I do
not think that is the case. The film is being a little provocative,
indeed, but at the same time all those provocations are reasoned by the
message the director wants to convey.

So one can easily feel some influence from other directors, maybe some
references, but I should say that this film does not lack originality
at all. The directing decisions and the choice of music are as strong
as the 2.5 minute close-up of Nicole Kidman's face in Birth. If you
have seen that scene, you know what you are dealing with here.

Even though, in my opinion, the images are very meaningful and
extremely powerful, Under the Skin has received a lot of contrasting
responses. Personally, I think the film is a masterpiece and it is
worth the Golden Lion, but there are people who actually hated it and
booed at it after having seen it. I cannot really understand why they
did that, but I think it is good when a piece of art inflicts emotions
and receives such different responses. It means that it is not mediocre
and that it will cause discussions, maybe some self reflection which is
always a good thing. The film suggests that I should get more into
details, analyse things carefully from beginning to end, but I will
not, just because I want other people to see it first and make their
own conclusions. But obviously Under the Skin demands a bigger analysis
than this one. I will just say that I was blown away by what I saw on
the screen and by what I heard from the speakers. I hope I will get to
see it again on the big screen. It has so much power and it is
questioning the most important, essential things about our existence -
our values as human beings. Where are we going, where are we rushing?
Maybe we need to stop and look at the beauty around us? Maybe we should
stop being superficial about others? Or maybe we are empty like
balloons ourselves? For me it is definitely the best film from the 70th
Venice Film Festival and one of the best films I have seen in my life.
<|_=00=_|>
At the end of this film someone shouted out "What a load of old pony"
and a cheer went up from a fair proportion of the audience - that part
that either hadn't left before the end or hadn't fallen asleep. To
continue the metaphor then this film is up there with the old nag that
Steptoe and Son keep in their back yard.

The opening minutes are pretty indicative of what's to come. A
nonsensical light show that signifies what precisely? Throw in eerie
soundtrack music. And then extend it way beyond the powers of
concentration of the most devoted of viewers.

Motor-bike man runs into a dark ditch and picks up a woman who looks
dead. Next, another woman strips the dead woman. Next, she is driving
around Glasgow in a white van. The combination of darkness/semi-light
and Glaswegian accents which are more or less indecipherable only
serves to make whatever's going on on-screen even more confusing.
Somewhere along the line the Elephant Man has escaped from another film
and gets picked up by Johanssen. He doesn't drown like the previous two
men that she seduces but runs off naked across the moors. Motor-bike
man catches him and puts into the boot of a car. He drives off. Don't
know what happens to the car or Elephant Man. By this time people were
leaving, my neighbour was sound asleep and I had two red-hot pins ready
to stick into my eyes.

I can't even be bothered to run over the rest of this abysmal, tedious
story. Shots were held for ever in the mistaken belief, I presume, that
we gave a damn about we were seeing. Nothing happened.

It's now the next morning and I'm still angry at forking out Â£10 and
wasting 2 hours of life to see this pile of dreck. Beany-hatted,
sandal-wearing academics will just love this film and will witter on
endlessly to their poor students about the "significance" of it all.
Believe me, there is none.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film that will divide audiences, for sure - but, don't
forget, so did 2001: A Space Odyssey when it came out. Despite the
presence of a mainstream actress, and a science fiction premise, this
is an art film 100%, inviting a very subjective response from
audiences. Which isn't to say it doesn't have a plot, though.
Addressing the confusion of previous IMDb comments - the men that
Johansson's alien traps have their innards sucked out and transported
through a cosmic portal. One scene makes that pretty hard to miss! The
film is about her developing a morality based on her actions, and
trying to escape the purpose on earth that she's functioned for, that
her overseers (the people on motorbikes - also aliens in human form)
make sure she goes through with) 

A super-creepy music score, amazing visuals and a brave & mesmerizing
performance from SJ combine for a film that will be talked about for
years to come. Ignore whatever you read about it - especially the bad
comments here, which are completely ignorant - and go in with an open
mind.
<|_=00=_|>
The last time I was this bored in a cinema it was during the era of the
French New Wave: films like Last Year In Marienbad and Hiroshima Mon
Amour, which were all about Style (if you can call it that) rather than
Substance.

Scarlett Johansson plays a mysterious woman who preys on hitch-hikers
and dropouts in Glasgow and the Scottish Lowlands. It isn't confirmed
until the end that she's a PREDATOR-style alien being, but the critics
have not kept this "spoiler" from us, so I guess it's okay to mention
it. Based on a cult novel and with a cult director (Jonathan Glazer:
SEXY BEAST), the film is full of long shots and long silences. It's
also filmed in near-total darkness, presumably to keep down the cost of
special effects, but this means the viewer can't actually tell what's
going on most of the time. Is she just killing her victims or is she
'assimilating' them? Don't know and - sorry! - don't care.

I can't imagine why they needed a star of Johansson's magnitude for
this low-budget tosh. Nor can I imagine why she took the role. The
SPECIES movies covered the storyline more thrillingly and more
viscerally. If this is meant to be a pretentious "art-house" film about
an alien predating on alienated members of Scottish society, all I can
say is it definitely alienated me!
<|_=00=_|>
You have never seen a movie even remotely like this.

It's been a long time coming. Ten years in development, to be precise,
and I've followed the saga throughout.

My interest was based on my love of the source novel by Michel Faber
which is a modern classic.

Clearly the 10 year development period demonstrated the difficulty with
which the novel would translate to the screen but, in my opinion, it
was worth the effort, and the wait.

When I heard that it was in Jonathon Glazer's hands (Birth and Sexy
Beast) I was encouraged, and when I found out that Scarlett Johansen
was to play the central character Isserley (unnamed in the movie but
credited as Laura for some reason) my heart skipped a beat.

I was not disappointed, but let's make no mistake, this is a Marmite
movie. 

My wife was bored to tears. And I can see why one IMDb reviewer
headlines his review "Tedious. Thoughtless. Empty. A failure in all
ways." But I disagree entirely. It's fair to say that the pace is
laconic, but it's a thing of beauty and a movie packed full of ideas,
unique special effects and greatness.

If you haven't read the novel you might be forgiven for asking what the
hell is going on in this story and, yes, there are elements of it that
are fully explored. The long section of the movie where Isserley combs
the streets of Glasgow, looking for her victims, with the help of
hidden cameras bringing a documentary feel to the whole proceeding, is
long and a little repetitive. But it's necessary to show the exhaustion
of her task and her eventual disintegration. What's more, it does not
paint the city in an entirely positive light. To that end Creative
Scotland should be commended for supporting it. It's a movie packed
with visual metaphor. There are some moments of horror but they are far
from gratuitous and all completely emotionless which is to be expected
given that Isserley is an alien, devoid of emotion, sent to earth to
farm unattached males for her home planet (not that you'd work that
out).

From the opening sequence in which Isserley's eyes are created, to
replicate humans', the imagery is breathtakingly disconcerting. It's
underpinned by an outstanding soundtrack by Mica Levi.

Johansonn is magnificent. Isn't she always? She is brave to take on a
role this opinion dividing, and she manages to exude a total lack of
emotion throughout in such a way that, unbelievably, you kind of
sympathise with her role as human culler.

Glazer is magnificent. But he always is. Birth is a much underrated
movie and anyone who saw his debut, Sexy Beast, cannot fail to love the
guy.

This is a great movie. Rammed to the rafters with original thought.
It's just a great pity so many of you will dislike it so much.
<|_=00=_|>
Whenever you have a groundbreaking film that redefines Form, you are
going to have some that either love it or hate it. Having said that, as
I get older I more often find reading the user comments on IMDb fills
me with despair for the species. For anybody to dismiss Under The Skin
as "boring" they must have no interest in human consciousness, science,
technology, philosophy, history or the art of film-making. Finally I
understand why most Hollywood productions are so shallow and vacuous -
they understand their audience.

"Under The Skin" is unique among films in content and scope. The
cinematography is out-of-this-world, breathtaking, and the musical
score is sublime. I rarely use the word "masterpiece" to describe a
movie. But Jonathan Glazer's "Under The Skin" is art in the highest
sense, like Leonardo da Vinci's "Mona Lisa", or Vincent Van Gogh's "The
Starry Night".

The film requires you to watch in a different way than you normally
watch films. It requires you to experience strange and beautiful images
without feeling guilty that there is no complex plot or detailed
characterization. Don't get me wrong, plots and characters are good,
but they're not the be-all and end-all of everything. There are
different KINDS of film, and to enjoy 'Under The Sin' you must tune
your brain to a different wavelength and succumb to the pleasure of
beauty, PURE beauty, 'the vast unknown' and an Alien perspective,
unfettered by the banal conventions of everyday films.

"Under The Skin" is a absolutely unique movie experience. Those who
miss out on it do so at the detriment of their own intellectual and
imaginative capacities.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so we sat through the entire film. We left after the credits rolled
and looked at each other with the "WTF was that!" look. Some
observations: 1. Scarlett had one facial expression throughout the
whole film 2. Those who compare it to the works of Stanley Kubrick have
obviously not seen a Stanley Kubrick film 3. The soundtrack was
annoying which I would contribute to the director having made too many
music videos 4. Too many holes in the script to mention here 5. Who
were the guys on the motorcycle and how come they did not need to
"feed" ? 6. The reviews I had read mentioned that it used ground
breaking techniques in camera placement (in the van), Have these guys
seen any episodes of COPS? That is inventive camera placement! 7. And
what was she thinking when she signed on to do this film???
<|_=00=_|>
About 5 years ago I read the book by Michael Faber. In the book, a
strange looking woman with big boobs picks up Scottish hitchhikers,
ascertains if they're alone in the world; if they are, she takes them
to a secret place where they are anesthetized, then castrated and de-
tongued. They are then fattened to be used for food in the place she
comes from, an unnamed planet. She has had her face altered to look
human by removing her snout. She feels very ugly because of this. At
one point a male she was in love with comes to visit the secret place
and she feels terrible because of her "deformity", realizing that now
he will never love her. At one point in the book she is almost raped by
a very crude man, and blinds him with her nails. 

The poor men being fattened for food are depicted as being very
pathetic, and I originally thought it was a protest against the way we
treat factory farm animals. Michael Faber denied this, and maybe that's
why he hasn't protested this very vague use of his work. And, maybe
he's just hungry.

This movie is so far from the book it's ridiculous, but that would have
been OK if it weren't so boring. Some of the special effects and music
were just weird enough to make what happens almost believable. Had it
been shortened; had it been a little more obvious why the men were
being caught and imprisoned in the jello stuff, I think I would have
enjoyed it more. As the previous reviewer pointed out, the scenes were
just too long.
<|_=00=_|>
I am surprised by the amount of negative criticism about this film as I
found it mesmerising and intriguing. If your expecting some Hollywood
movie about a sexy alien killing lots of dull characters in a gory and
sensationalised way (with lots of explosions thrown in), then you will
be disappointed. The pace is slow however I felt that this contributed
to the whole feel and atmosphere. I liked the use of Scotland as a
setting especially the way it contrasted the natural beauty of Scotland
with some of the urban ugliness that exists. I also liked the way
Scarlett Johansson played the main role - cool, sexy and almost
emotionless. I am glad I didn't watch this at the cinema as watching it
at home meant I could discuss the film during the many periods of calm.
There were a few arty scenes in the film but I did not feel these were
pretentious or contrived, again they added to the feel of the film. The
ending was a little disappointing in my opinion but I still feel this
film is classy, original and will make most people think!
