
There surely can't be too many people who come away from Chalet Girl
saying that it didn't deliver what they expected it to. It's almost
charmingly clichéd and completely predictable at every moment. Whether
or not this will bother you or not is entirely down to your tolerance
for the romantic-comedy genre. I personally would classify it as a
perfectly watchable movie; although it is 100% unremarkable.

Its main angle I suppose is its setting. The Alps are very beautiful
and this doesn't harm the film. The snowboarding part is dealt with in
a relatively minor way, as the main thrust of the plot is of the comic
and romantic kind - the snobbishness of skiers, the almost angelic
goodness of the boarders, the tart with a heart, the posh boy who falls
for the chalet girl, etc etc. It's all very one dimensional, although
it does have to be said that leading actress Felicity Jones does make
for a good enough principal girl; however, her male counterpart Ed
Westwick did seem very wooden to me. And I still can't fathom why they
went to the trouble of hiring a skilled comedian like Bill Bailey when
all his character amounts to is a man who can't cook his dinner.

At the end of the day Chalet Girl is a chick-flick with snowboards.
There's nothing new here but I've also seen Snowboard Academy, and that
film makes this one seem like The Godfather by comparison. So there's a
positive note to end this on.
<|_=00=_|>
Went to see this film with a friend as I love Ed Westwick. The film
itself looked good however I did not expect it to be as good as it was.
The storyline is very typical however the script has been written very
well. 

It is so nice to have a new English film out once in a while instead of
American. I do love American films but the humour is not as great as
English. Chalet girl is a great film without being over the top. It is
not cheesy and has great characters to follow. 

This film is great throughout and I recommend people go and watch it;
even guys as it is not just a girl chick flick film. With the great
actors and great script this film is overall fantastic and should be
watched by all.
<|_=00=_|>
It's rare that when watching a chick flick, I find myself laughing out
of genuine humour: but such was the case in Chalet Girl. Not only does
it boast a pleasingly sarcastic dialogue and delightfully witty
characters, but it offers just the right amount of romance and cheese
to avoid 93 minutes of cringing. The story was very uplifting, albeit
predictable, and the photography was worthy of a gasp or two. Set in
the beautiful Austrian alps, this movie contained the perfect
ingredients for a light and enjoyable flick: humour, romance, dramatic
twist and happy ending. Perhaps it's not Oscar worthy, but it's
certainly worth an hour and a half of your time.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to hate this, I really did. I'm on the sharp end of a divorce
so going into a romantic comedy for me, well it's like a vegan booking
an abattoir weekend.

I was strong-armed into a preview show under the notion that it was
Cinderella on a Snowboard and to a certain extent this is correct, Kim
(Felicity Jones) is a downtrodden burger-queen-teen with zero prospects
trapped in a co-dependent rut with her culinary incompetent dad (Bill
Bailey) and nursing grief for her mother - who died in a car crash.

In a series of unlikely twists Kim lands a job as a Chalet Girl with
super-rich family in beautiful Austria, enter Prince Charming (lush Ed
Westwick) who is  horror show  engaged to somebody he like  so
completely  doesn't love.

While romance runs its roller-coaster course Kim learns to snowboard
and finds she's gifted  well to a point  because the psychological
scaring of her mum's death holds her back from winning the local
boarding trophy  and a very useful cash prize.

While the set-up is pure Cinderella the execution is all Rocky. 

As Kim was fighting the odds I found myself rooting for her: when she
crashed in the snow I felt her pain and when she got up and faced her
demons I felt her determination, god I even cried at one point  in a
quiet manly way. 

There are plenty of clichés: including a tart who  guess what  grows
a heart, but despite all of that I just found myself going along with
it. No, not just going along with it, but loving it. 

The success is partly down to a script that punches well above its
weight: the sharp banter runs like this:

Posh Richard (Bill Nighy): (pointing at a helicopter) You ever been in
one of these things? Kim: (impressed but ultra-cool) Yeah, we have one
at home. This one's pretty small actually. Posh Richard: Do we pay
extra for irony? Kim: No, the irony's free, it's the sarcasm you're
paying for. Ironically...

But the success is mostly down to Felicity Jones - she's hardly off
screen and start-to-finish she oozes a hypnotic charm that wraps itself
around you from go. Then there's the scenery too. The snow and chalet
scenes are shot in Austria, in particular St Anton where 'The Museum'
is used for exterior shots of the posh chalet  well, they are
stunning. 

Between the location, Felicity and even (strangely enough) Ed Westwick
I left the cinema with my love for humanity and indeed the world in
much better shape than when I went in. 

I'm still being divorced of course, but after the film I feel slightly
better about the process.
<|_=00=_|>
We got preview tickets to this film at Parrs Wood Didsbury this morning
- my wife and daughter were very keen to see it because they love Ed
Westwick in Gossip Girl. They thought it might have been too much of a
chick flick for me but it is one of the best films I have seen for a
long time, it has great story line, very well made, actors absolutely
play their roles brilliantly. Its great to see a British film back on
the screen. The make up of the film editing/production is very well cut
and doesn't have the usual padded out parts in the middle where I
normally get bored!! A great film for all the family, but be aware once
your children have seen it they will be begging you to take them
skiing!!
<|_=00=_|>
Chalet Girl is a feel good movie and offers the viewer comedy, romance
and some good photographic shots. Its a film which starts with Felicity
Jones (Kim ) delivering a very 'slick' main character role. Her
delivery of the part just hit the spot thus you felt you were there
with her throughout the movie. I would say its definitely a gender type
film, more a 'girly' movie but thats perhaps not fair as it has a 'full
rounded' story which would appeal to both genders really. The storyline
is simple, opportunity, relationships and fears. The overcoming of all
is part of the simplistic joy of the film. I don't agree with comments
of the film being boring but perhaps my aforementioned comments re
gender would support these negative reviews. The acting was very good
and all roles complimented each other, fitting in and all loose ends
were tied up. Also it was a pleasure to watch a film which did not need
to resort to copious amounts of foul language. A nice, easy, enjoyable
film which leaves one feeling lifted and has the 'ahhhh' factor.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a sweet and quite likable comedy but it could have been so much
better...

The acting on the whole was awful - especially from the 'love interest'
Robert Pattinson look-a-likey Ed Westwick.

I guess all romcoms are somewhat predictable, but in this it was
painfully obvious what was going to happen.

The plot was ridiculous in places - with a complete novice learning to
snowboard to competition level within a matter of weeks.

Despite all these criticisms I kind of enjoyed it (mainly for the
snowboarding and the Alps) but would neither recommend it nor want to
watch it again. Perhaps more one to watch at home if you have some time
to kill and there was nothing much else on.
<|_=00=_|>
Chalet Girl  CATCH IT (B) Chalet girl is a story about a former
skateboard champion who after a tragic death of her mother living a
life in anonymity. To make more money she joins the elite posh
servicing company which sends her off to Austria. The movie is really
light and fun loving. There are no hardcore dramatic scenes, and in the
backdrop of snowboarding we see a love story of a normal girl falling
for rich guy. Felicity Jones did a fine job playing tomboy girl falling
for British lad Ed Westwick. Ed Westwick, the infamous Chuck Bass from
Gossip Girl was impressive, losing all that aggressive American tone.
Tamsin Edgerton, Georgia King and German Lad Ken Duken have some really
fun moments in the movie. Brooke Shields, Sophia Bush, Nicholas Braun
and Bill Nighy are good in their respective parts. Overall, it's an
enjoyable British movie for sports and romance fans.
<|_=00=_|>
Felicity Jones is such a great up and comer, she will certainly have a
long career ahead of her, she's got an extremely likable screen
presence. The story of Chalet Girl is sweet and innocent, but not too
innocent, the character of Kim makes thus film not the annoying cheesy
romance it so easily could have been.

If it was American it would not have been as enjoyable, even the one
American character in the film (Brooke Shields), is the most annoying
of all of them, even though she plays trophy wife to perfection she is
still very mean and annoying.

Ed Westwick impressed me also, I thought he wouldn't be able to shake
off the whole Chuck Bass characterization, but Henie convincing as the
nice rich boy who falls for the working class Kim.

The alps where the movie is filmed are absolutely gorgeous, it's movies
like this that make you want to go on holidays. The performances all
round are wonderful but like I said earlier this movie belongs to
Jones. She's just lovely.

I hope you enjoy it. Quite different to the usual romantic comedy but
much better also. :)
<|_=00=_|>
Kim, stuck in a mindless burger bar job, looks after her clueless Dad
following Mum's death in a car crash. When money troubles press, Kim
takes a job as a chalet girl working for a rich family, only to find
that she is somewhat looked down on by the family themselves and the
other upper crust husband hunting chalet girls. But rich son Jonny is
rather tasty, and Kim turns out to be quite good at snowboarding...

This romantic comedy has a lot going for it. There is no bad language
for a start off (albeit a little bit of mild raunch and non-explicit
nudity), a lot of attractive scenery, a sparky script, and several
attractive performance. Bill Nighy is, as usual, a joy, and Tamsin
Egerton is great fun (with most of the funniest lines). Sophia Bush has
the most dramatic moment, with a very believably written and performed
sequence.

But the film stands on Felicity Jones' diminutive shoulders. As Kim,
she is by turns girl-next-door ordinary and glowingly beautiful,
sometimes at the same time. More importantly, she projects a
vulnerability and sheer niceness which makes it very easy for an
audience to empathise with her (and she can act, which doesn't hurt). 

A pleasing feelgood movie.
