
To live in the world of Big Momma, it helps if you have the
intelligence of a box of instant potatoes. That way, Detective Malcolm
Turner (Martin Lawrence) and now his 17-year-old stepson Trey (Brandon
T. Jackson) can pass themselves off as women, despite both of them
looking like they escaped from a bad Saturday Night Live sketch, and
not arouse suspicion. That both of them are able to fool an entire
girl's college campus is one mental hurdle the movie asked of me that I
just could not accomplish.

Of course, given the attempts at humor on display in Big Mommas: Like
Father, Like Son, it probably wouldn't hurt if the audience shared the
same IQ as the characters up on the screen. There's not a single laugh
to be had. Believe me, I counted. But then, that's not surprising when
the film's sole joke was explored to its fullest in 2000's Big Momma's
House. That was the movie where Lawrence went undercover as a 300 pound
Southern granny in order to crack a crime. Somehow, this idea struck a
chord with enough people to see the movie gross over $100 million,
which led to 2006's Big Momma's House 2. It was less successful at the
box office, but here we are with the third film. Not only does the Big
Momma disguise that Lawrence dons look a little more worn out than
before, but Lawrence himself seems confused as to what he's doing back
in the role. It's an encore performance that no one, not even the star,
asked for.

Lawrence is back as Malcolm, although his love interest (played in the
previous two films by Nia Long) is nowhere to be seen. I guess they
couldn't pay her enough to come back, so they explain in dialogue that
she's away at a retreat. This leaves Malcolm to deal with family
problems on his own, such as stepson Trey wanting to ditch a college
education at Duke University, so that he can become a rap artist. Trey
is underage, and needs his dad's signature in order to sign a contract
with a music producer. In what is probably not the brightest of ideas,
Trey decides to follow Malcolm on a bust of some Russian gangsters,
hoping he can corner him and convince him to sign the contract. (I told
you these characters were dumb.) This leads to Trey witnessing a
murder, and having the gangsters gunning after him. Malcolm decides
that the best way for his stepson and him to remain inconspicuous is to
dress in drag, a fat suit, and clothes that look like they were stolen
from a circus clown's wardrobe.

They head for the Georgia All Girl's School for the Performing Arts,
where incriminating evidence against the mobsters has been conveniently
hidden, and even more conveniently, a position for housemother has
opened up. No need for any real credentials or background checks,
apparently. "Big Momma", with Trey posing as her granddaughter, show up
and immediately get wrapped up in campus life, and the various
emotional problems (boys, the stress to be popular and "perfect") that
the students face. The movie can't think of a single funny thing to do
with its premise. Every scene ends with either a tired physical gag
(Big Momma poses nude for an art class!), or sometimes no laugh at all,
just an awkward transition to the next scene. I guess we're supposed to
get caught up in the subplot of how Trey falls for one of the girls at
the school (Jessica Lucas), and is forced to keep his feelings and
identity a secret. All I could think about is how does this girl not
realize that Trey and his female disguise are one and the same person,
especially since she spends ample personal time with both of his
identities? 

I don't think I'm spoiling much by revealing that Big Mommas ends with
the gangsters getting what they deserve, and father and son bonding
during their time in drag together. This is an unwanted and
miscalculated comedy that is so lacking in energy and entertainment,
it's mind boggling. Nobody up on the screen looks like they want to be
there, and as the movie dragged on through its overlong 107 minutes, I
felt a connection with them. At least I was feeling something.
<|_=00=_|>
We get this every January/February, one movie comes around that reminds
us all how good Oscar season was, 2 months prior. In 2009 we had Bride
Wars. In 2010 we had When in Rome. This year it's Big Momma 3.

Absolutely nothing in this film was funny, nor I or the audience of
about 40 people laughed once at this cataclysmic attempt at a comedy.
Martin Lawrence sets the art of humour back an entire decade with this
go-nowhere performance, he's practically sleep-walking through the
entire movie, are things really that bad Martin? how badly do you need
a check? the last thing i remember seeing him in was Wild Hogs 4 years
ago and that was a masterpiece compared to this slop.

The plot circles around Lawrence's stepson (Brandon T. Jackson) being
targeted by some Russian mafia for witnessing a murder. Lawrence's
character is a respected FBI agent, is the only thing he can think of
to hide his stepson; dressing him in drag and enrolling he and himself
as members of an all girls school? 

This obviously paves the way for a ton of teen-sex jokes, alas there
are barely any attempts at this (got to keep that precious PG-13 rating
guys).

A comedy that fails to get a single laugh out of some 40 people is a
huge failure in my eyes. Let's not let this film be forgotten because
it came out so early on in the year, critics at the end of 2011 need to
be prepared to put this on their list of worst films of the year. If
not - then any of the films that beat it will have to be spectacularly
awful.
<|_=00=_|>
Big Momma is back in this horrible 3rd installment of the Big Mommas
House franchise. This is about undercover agent Malcom Turner. He is on
another case and his son Trent sneaks into the middle of a drug deal
and witnesses a murder. Trent than needs to go undercover with his
father to an all girls school . Where the key to the case is hidden.

I thought this movie had a few and i mean Few funny jokes. Trent played
by Brandon T. Jackson was the only one who made a slight joke. These
movies had jokes that you would see in a Tyler Perry movie. If you like
the Tyler Perry movies. I suggest you see it but if you hate them do
not see it
<|_=00=_|>
Big Momma: Like Father, Like Son

The worst day for an African-American actor is the day that he or she
must put on the first of what will be many fat suits.

Unfortunately for the teen actor in this comedy, his moment of
humiliation has come at an early age.

When his partner hides a flash-drive on an all-girls arts college
campus, Detective Turner (Martin Lawrence) must don his Big Momma
persona to infiltrate the student body.

Aiding Turner on this undercover endeavor is his arrogant stepson
Trent/Charmaine (Brandon T. Jackson), a hopeful rapper and an
unintentional murder witness.

Now, Big Momma and Charmaine must locate the flash-drive before the bad
guys catch on to their disguises.

The third installment of the Big Momma franchise, Like Father, Like Son
is a failed attempt at resuscitating an unfunny and insulting series.

Besides, there are more comical issues to exploit in a skinny character
who use to be fat. (Red Light)
<|_=00=_|>
"Big Mommas: Like Father, Like Son" is the third movie in the series,
and honestly, they might have considered stopping after the second
movie. The first one was hilarious, the second one not so much. And now
the third one has been unleashed upon us movie-lovers.

For a comedy, then "Big Mommas: Like Father, Like Son" is rather weak,
because there is only a handful of situations that proved to be funny.
And even less so actually managed to make me laugh. I think I laughed
once or twice throughout the entire movie. So it was a disappointing
experience to watch this movie.

The storyline is somewhat simple, so even your family's dog can keep up
with it. Some incriminating evidence is stored on a USB key, evidence
that can bring down some big criminals. Yeah, very original there
already. And the USB key is hidden in an all-girls school, and it is up
to detective Malcolm to find it and bring the criminals to justice.
Only this time he brings his son into it! Yeah, his son. Now, what
father in his right mind would bring his own flesh and blood into a
situation where his life is in danger, and much more so bring his son
into cross-dressing? Back it up right there! The storyline was weak and
very hard to believe and get into, because it was so over the top.

Now, Martin Lawrence does a good job as Malcolm and Big Momma, as he
did in the previous two movies. So if you are familiar with those two,
you know what you will be getting. This is good, but at the same time
it is also bad. Why keep squeezing the lemon when there is no more
juice to come out? Brandon T. Jackson (playing Trent/Charmaine) did a
good job as well, except for when he portrayed Charmaine; I found that
strenuous to watch. Ken Jeong (playing the mailman) was a hilarious
spot to the movie, despite he was there for only a few minutes. And for
a noticeable performance of the younger talents, then Michelle Ang
(playing Mia) brought a good deal of spark and comedy to the movie. In
overall, the acting was good and the performances were well enough. The
movie was just suffering from being a movie that had a weak story.

I suppose for hardcore fans of Martin Lawrence, then "Big Mommas: Like
Father, Like Son" will be a blast. But for the ones that watched part 1
and 2, then part 3 is a very dull and humorless movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Why does Martin Lawrence keep donning the fat suit to play Big Momma?
How many more situations can he get himself into that he has to rely on
the help of his alter-ego, Hattie Mae Pierce? Apparently enough to make
a trilogy out of the Big Momma movies. At least Lawrence is getting a
paycheck, what are we getting out of it? I would explain the
circumstances on how and why Malcolm (Lawrence) and his stepson, Trent
(Jackson) go undercover at an all-girls school, but -- really? This is
a Big Momma movie, people -- plot is really just a moot point. The
writers only have one job on a movie like this, get Malcolm and Trent
into drag as soon as possible, because there's nothing funnier than a
fat, sassy Southern black woman stereotype. Isn't that right, Tyler
Perry? Maybe they need to do a Madea/Big Momma crossover and just get
everyone offended at the same time.

I understand that they were at a performing arts school and everything,
but did we really need to sit through 5... count them, 5.... musical
numbers (6 if you include the music video during the end credits). I
felt like I was tricked into watching some stage play version of Big
Momma where the characters just break into song on a whim. Maybe that's
where they're trying to take the Big Momma character....because she
certainly would put the BROAD in Broadway. Yes, bad pun, I know... but
forgive me, please, I just had to sit through a Big Momma movie. More
reviews at www.soveryterry.com Final Grade: D+
<|_=00=_|>
It's funny how an FBI agent goes under the guise of a fat woman (or
more precisely, a Big Momma) and uses it as his modus operandi during
the bigger missions. The second time on doing so was inconsequential
and by the end of the unendurable, unnecessary stay in Big Momma's
House, he gave the family a farewell letter which was a dreadful
debacle made worse by the promise on it  'Keep a lookout. You never
know when Big Momma might be back." So Big Momma is back but the
subject is changed to plural.

Big Mommas: Like Father Like Son is exactly what it says on the title.
Brandon T. Jackson, Alpa Chino from Tropic Thunder, supersedes Jascha
Washington as the teenage stepson Trent, alias Charmaine Daisy Pierce
when undercover who is Big Momma's great niece. The film, as well as
sequel, is a reboot to the series by initiating Trent as the lead
character and opting to appeal to a teenage audience instead of a
mature or family-friendly one like the predecessors. Trent predominates
on-screen time here hence gives some room for character development,
seeing Malcolm is at it for the third time and his antics have become
predictable.

The hindrance that Charmaine suffers from is his romantic
susceptibility with his irresistible urge to enunciate a sound in such
a way that shows his impression of the lady. Unable to adapt to a lady
without having sexual desires, this state of affairs sets up the film's
subplot of him dating school colleague Haley  like Malcolm and Sherry
in the first film hence this film's title. Over the course of the film,
Trent develops from conceited rapper to a more mature man comprehending
and appreciating women in a greater manner. The side of Trent that
isn't established as well as it should have been is his goal of
becoming a rapper. It becomes sceptical to an audience when Trent
transfers his identity that he wants to become a rapper. No fighting
back with Malcolm to prevent himself from entering undercover mode nor
an attitude showing commitment to achieving his aspiration. After that,
several references are scattered throughout that he already is his own
rapper despite a record label contract pending from the start and all
throughout. The idea that I got was that being a rapper was just a
background to quickly import his character into the story and as
something to identify him.

Brandon T. Jackson is literally indistinguishable as his female alter
ego. The wardrobe team went to town on make up with the character like
they did with Big Momma. It's ludicrous how the father and son manage
to dress and undress as their other half with an outrageous amount of
fully body prosthetics in a terribly short amount of time when they're
on the run. Often it could be wondered, are they undercover FBI agents
or lame superheroes? Not even Mrs Doubtfire could prepare so quickly,
and Robin Williams didn't spawn any sequels to wreck his amiable
disguised character.

If credit is due for any character in this film, it belongs to Kurtis
Kool, played by Faizon Love (video game buffs must remember Sweet from
GTA: San Andreas whom Love voiced). By far the most entertaining
character in the film, the only character sustaining the comedy the
film intended for, even if its just the way he says "Momma said knock
you out!" The character's crazy crush on Big Momma makes for a
hilarious little sub-plot that is perhaps the best bit of the film,
ranging from his funny feelings for her to an amusing game of Twister
between the two.

This is the third time unlucky for Martin Lawrence as a single
character. The first was merely decent, second went down like a lead
balloon, and this part definitely shows signs of a universal panning.
The injury added to the insult that this film is that there was no
positive production changes - no new director and more importantly,
there is still not a good screenplay which was a calamity in the
previous films. On the other hand, the first two rocketed in grossing
at the box office. Judging from the financial success of the first two,
Big Mommas: Like Father Like Son may be another surprise hit but in
this dead zone of cinema, there are far better alternates to view.

Verdict: Martin Lawrence should seriously stop. For Brandon T. Jackson,
if there's another instalment, the production will need to be fixed a
lot before the crimes are looked into. And I guess you were hoping for
a positive review but sorry, I'm only being honest.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe I'm saying this, but this atrocious sequel makes look
the original film(Which was pretty bad) almost decent by comparison.

I just can't stand this kind of "comedies" (Filled with bad jokes,
annoying characters, offensive and irritating stereotypes) In fact, I
think this movie reached a new level of boredom and annoyance.

It is one of the most irritating and least funny movies ever made.

This movie is the complete opposite of fun: In fact, I think that the
world turned a bit worse for the sole existence of this film.

At least the movies that appeared in "Mystery Science Teather 3000"
were funny to watch, despite being bad. This is just...Bad.

My recommendation: Avoid this film, and watch anything else instead.

I would rate this film with zero stars if I could.
<|_=00=_|>
The eye of the beholder. It is tough doing comedy and it is tough
explaining why something is not to ones taste. Martin Lawrence made
quite a lot of money with this series and not only a few would wonder
how this could happen in the first place.

While this isn't complete waste (you might be able to laugh or chuckle
at some of the silly jokes), this really is by the numbers and has no
surprising element whatsoever to elevate it over other movies with
similar themes. Not only that, it isn't really that well executed
either. But what would you expect from a movie when it reaches its
second sequel (part 3 that is)?! So while the (general) census suggests
that you won't like the movie, you might see it otherwise (especially
if you liked both prior movies)!
<|_=00=_|>
"How you gonna hide swag as big as this?" After Malcom's (Lawrence)
aspiring rapper step son Trent (Jackson) sees a murder it's up to
Malcolm to hide Trent and find the evidence he needs to put the
murderer in jail. There is only one way to complete this...become Big
Momma again. After watching the first two I was actually kind of
looking forward to this one. The first one was a good movie, but I
thought the second one was funnier. This one took all that was funny
about the first two and replaced it with "High School Musical" aspects.
A lot of choreographed dance sequences and a lot of singing, not what I
expected to see in this movie. Although there were a few funny parts,
the movie was a re-hash of the same jokes from the first two, but not
as funny. This is a perfect example of Hollywood running out of ideas
and only doing re-makes, turning TV shows into movies, prequels and
sequels that don't need to be made. After a five year break another
sequel to Big Momma didn't seem to be needed, and after watching this
it only made that fact more clear. Overall this movie does for the Big
Momma series what "Batman & Robin" did to the "Batman" series, or what
"Rocky 5" did to the "Rocky" series. Makes you think...why didn't they
stop at the last one? I give it a C-.

Would I watch again? - No way, but like the other series I mentioned I
would watch the others before this one if they were on TV.

*Also try - Big Mommas House 1 & 2
