
First off, the real Linda Lovelace changed her story a bunch of times
throughout her life (including the FOUR autobiographies she wrote):
which one are we to believe? Porn star Linda? Born again Christian
Linda? Feminist Linda? Aging and short of cash Linda? The problem with
this movie is it treats even the most bizarre tales spun by Lovelace as
the God's own truth, even though everyone else involved in any of the
porn productions she was involved in refute just about all of it. 

Secondly, Amanda Seyfried is way too pretty and childlike to play
Lovelace with any kind of credibility. The real Linda Lovelace always
bordered on the creepy, haggard and slightly cross-eyed, and it was
only her (then) highly unusual ability to 'deep throat' that she had
going for her - at least the film got that part right. 

Her endless self-victimizing tales, such as her porn shoots being
filmed with a gun LITERALLY pressed to her head, and her becoming the
most famous porn star in the world only out of fear that her family
might be murdered(?), run contrary to the reports of almost everyone
else she worked with, who considered this woman - who'd previously had
sex with a dog on camera (oh yes, THAT wasn't mentioned in the film,
was it?)- to be an inveterate liar and a 'sexual super-freak'. In her
private life too, every time any of her apparently happy marriages
ended, she played the victim all over again and alleged abuse from
pretty much every man she was ever involved with right up until the end
of her life - including Larry Marchiano, her 'happy ending' at the end
of this film.

Lovelace was a very sad character wanting more than anything approval,
sympathy and attention and apparently just said whatever she thought a
'good girl' should say in whatever circles she moved. As her fellow
adult actress Gloria Leonard said, "This was a woman who never took
responsibility for her own choices made, but instead blamed everything
that happened to her in her life on porn." The story of her need to
present herself in such a way, why she did it and the fall-out such
behaviour caused to everyone else around her would have made a far
better film.

I liked the 70s period detail, and there are some funny lines from
Boardwalk Empire's Bobby Cannavale and Hank Azaria, but they're way out
of place in such an oppressive, lurid nightmare fantasy depicting all
the Boogie Nights-style shenanigans as simply abuse. By swallowing
every bizarre allegation from this one deeply unreliable source and
making her story exclusively one of victimhood we are infantilizing a
grown woman, treating her even after death as a sexless child who never
grew up and I found this deeply unpleasant to have to sit through. 

Most of all I found it insulting to be presented with the self-pitying
excuses of a pathological liar depicted as objective reality. There was
absolutely no point to this movie being made, it says nothing of any
value and doesn't even entertain. It was a waste of everyone's time and
money, including mine.
<|_=00=_|>
It is debatable what differentiates a great film biography from the
rest. Arguably, a great biopic embraces the complexities of a person's
life while using storytelling to organize such intricacies. It makes
the film's subject all the more intriguing.

Poor and mediocre biopics either become blatantly overwhelmed by a
life's complications, or ignore them altogether. Unfortunately,
"Lovelace" chooses to ignore, and consequently misses greatness.

The woman who was born Linda Susan Boreman, and would later be better
known by her stage name, Linda Lovelace, lived a very complicated, and
devastatingly sad, life. This film centers on the real life Lovelace's
claims of being used and abused by her first husband, Chuck Traynor,
and being browbeaten into the pornography industry.

Lovelace's allegations of spousal abuse have been disputed by some, and
supported by others who knew her personally, but that's beside the
point. The film was right in basing its narrative solely on Lovelace's
side of the story, not getting bogged down by antipathetic
discrepancies. Still, there were crucial parts of her life the movie
should not have left out.

For instance, "Lovelace" strongly implies that "Deep Throat" was
Lovelace's first pornographic film (untrue) and her last (also untrue).
It doesn't mention a stag film in which she engages in bestiality with
a dog.

In one of her four books (yes, she wrote four books), she claimed that
Traynor forced her to act in such movies, which would have made a good
case in this movie for how controlling Traynor was. After all, having
sex with a dog, especially on camera, is not an action in which most
would engage willingly.

I could go on about relevant moments of the real Lovelace's life that
this movie chose to ignore. However, the primary faults of "Lovelace"
lie not in what they left out, but in a questionable storytelling
structure where the filmmakers obviously tried to be too clever in
their narrative.

Basically, the first half of the film chronicles a 21-year-old, naive
Linda Boreman (Amanda Seyfried) who lives with her strict, Catholic
parents (Robert Patrick and a shockingly deglamorized, unrecognizable
Sharon Stone) in Florida. A charismatic, 27-year-old Chuck Traynor
(Peter Sarsgaard) spots Linda at a rollerskating rink and begins dating
her.

While Traynor claims to own a bar and restaurant, young Linda doesn't
realize he dabbles in prostitution until after they are married, and
she bails him out of jail. Eventually, Traynor coerces her into
performing sexual acts on complete strangers for money before taking
her to audition for pornographic movies.

From here, the film chronicles the making of the notorious "Deep
Throat", the rise of Linda Lovelace, and does more than hint at the
unexpected cultural impact the film creates.

Halfway through, the film makes the mistake of jumping ahead six years
later (I guess circa 1980), and showing a visibly disheveled Linda
taking a lie detector test administered by a publisher (Eric Roberts)
in order to assess the validity of her marital abuse claims in her new
autobiography, "Ordeal". The film then jumps back 8 or 9 years to show
many of the same scenes over again, except adding footage at the end of
each scene actually showing Traynor physically and sexually abusing
Linda.

Why go back and show these scenes? The lie detector scene would have
made a good narrative framework, especially since you see Amanda
Seyfried look so shockingly worn down. This is not the same doe- eyed,
blonde hottie from "Mamma Mia" (2008), or at least it doesn't look like
her.

The point is, though, that going back and retreading all the scenes
feels like a waste of time. Considering the film's running time of 93
minutes, there is no excuse for retread, especially considering Sarah
Jessica Parker's well-publicized cameo as Gloria Steinem was cut out of
the film altogether.

However, casting was the film's main strength, which I initially
thought would be its weakness. I had my doubts about Seyfried
portraying Lovelace, considering that Seyfried is exceptionally
gorgeous, and the real Linda Lovelace was (Is there any way to say this
nicely?) not even close. Listing actresses in this review who bear a
stronger resemblance to the doomed porn starlet would probably be
insulting to them.

While Seyfried donned a shaggy brunette hairstyle and freckles to
deglamorize herself, she still looked a lot prettier than Lovelace on
her best day. Scenes such as low-level mobster Butchie Periano (Bobby
Cannavale) arguing that she is not attractive enough for the porno he
is financing appear consequently more dubious.

Still, Seyfried did well with what she was given. Her best scenes
include the lie-detection test, a surprisingly touching moment with an
unexpectedly cordial publicity photographer (Wes Bentley), and her
begging her emotionally cold mother for asylum from her abusive
husband. Another scene where she is raped by five men at Traynor's
behest shows little, but is still hard to watch.

While Peter Sarsgaard is effectively charismatic as Chuck Traynor, he
wasn't convincing enough during the abuse scenes. Every time he threw
Seyfried around, his face looked as though he would apologize to her
right after the directors yelled "Cut!".

Sharon Stone, as Dorothy Boreman, had the movie's best performance, and
not just because she is indistinguishable from her more glamorous
roles. The scene where she does anything but console a visibly
frightened Seyfried makes her eerily believable, and surprisingly
multifaceted.

While the performances were well done, and "Lovelace" successfully
shied away from exploitation, it suffered from fractured storytelling,
awkward editing, and the vague epilogue implying that Lovelace's life
only improved before her untimely death in 2002 in a car crash. If you
watch the insightful documentary "Inside Deep Throat" (2005), or read
Joe Bob Briggs' excellent, astute retrospective on her life
(http://old.nationalreview.com/comment/comment-briggs042502.asp),
you'll get a far more accurate, and grimmer, account of her life after
pornography. It's sad, dismal, and, as "Lovelace" proves, a story
Hollywood still does not want to tell.
<|_=00=_|>
Lovelace is an odd film in that it's really two films wrapped into one.
The first film is a rather light 70s set piece about the porn business
very reminiscent of the film Boogie Nights, with great performances by
Mama Mia's Amanda Seyfried (holding her own even though she is much too
pretty to play Linda Lovelace) as well as Peter Sarsgaard as her creepy
husband who has no qualms about prostituting his wife out for a buck.
Sharon Stone is just fantastic as Linda's mother (you won't even
recognize her) and Robert Patrick (of Terminator 2) as her father, and
the supporting cast is also perfect, including Boardwalk Empire's Bobby
Cannavale and even James Franco playing Hugh Hefner. There is a bit of
foreshadowing about what the second film is going to be about, such as
when Linda's co-star alludes to the bruises on Linda's leg and also
some questionable looks by her husband, but otherwise the movie plays
out as a strongly R-rated biopic delivering quite a few laughs.

Then, suddenly, we are thrown into the second film, a PG-13 Lifetime
Network-like drama including violins playing. The second film retells
the first film, showing the behind the scenes abuse Linda receives from
her husband and portraying Linda as someone who is doing it all
reluctantly and is trying to escape the porn business. The stark
contrast between the second and first films would be more effective if
the second film wasn't so formulaic--it even has a gift wrapped happy
ending. I imagine the truth of Linda's life falls somewhere in the
middle, with Linda's own bad judgment playing at least some part in her
life's situation. Unfortunately, although Amanda Seyfried is lovely in
the first film as the naive young newlywed getting caught up in the
porn business, she isn't reinvented and just doesn't transcend in the
more watered down drama of second film like, say, Charlize Theron was
in the film Monster. There just aren't any great performance by anyone
in the second film as a matter of fact and the scenes that are suppose
to be brutal just aren't. When it comes to showing the ugly side of the
porn biz this film peters out.

Lovelace, therefore, stands as a slightly above average and obviously
heavily fictionalized biopic, when it could and should have been much
more, if only some more guts were put into the second half of it.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended Lovelace at Sundance not knowing too much about the story of
Linda Lovelace. Linda Lovelace is the most famous pornography star of
all time because of the film Deep Throat (1972) which became wildly
popular with mainstream audiences and brought pornography into popular
culture. More than an indictment of the pornography business, this film
is an indictment and expose on spousal abuse. Linda married young and
was sexually and physically abused by her husband throughout her
marriage. She was forced into doing these films and acts. She
eventually found the courage to leave her husband and wrote a tell-all
which is what this movie is based on.

The way this story was structured keeps it interesting and revelatory,
and tonally the film is in accordance with her life. Things start off
happy and there are lots of funny moments but soon enough things take a
turn for the worse and that is where the true drama ensues.

Amanda Seyfried may not seem like the right choice for the role but she
handles herself and the material with ease. She does a fabulous job
evoking a wide range of emotions and brings her performance to a
previously unseen level (at least, from what I've seen of hers). Peter
Sarsgaard naturally exudes kindness and charm, we are seduced by it as
she is, yet when the time calls for it he is rightly overpowering and
terrifying.

Directors Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman started off making
documentaries that were both important and compelling. They made the
switch to traditional narrative films with Howl which showcased their
talent but Lovelace is further proof that they are multi-talented and
continuing to grow in skill.

The film does leave out a few things, most likely for the sake of the
narrative, Linda was forced to participate in several short pornography
loops before she appeared in Deep Throat, including a bestiality film.
She also made two movies after Deep Throat (including Deep Throat II).

The film has instant notoriety for its connection to Deep Throat and
hopefully this will drive a bigger audience to it but it will likely
gain some controversy as well for its association (in fact there was a
small group protesting it at the premiere which is utterly ridiculous).
I hope this film gets a large audience as marital abuse in its many
forms is far too common a problem and needs to be brought to the
forefront of discussion.
<|_=00=_|>
The brilliantly structured "Lovelace" is two films. Neither is
satisfying.

The comedic first third is a polished turd showcasing Linda's glitzy
rise to fame as the star of "Deep Throat." The film then takes a very
hard one-eighty to become the grim tale of a battered (and far worse)
wife literally dragged kicking and screaming to a porn set.

"Deep Throat" was the first porn film to crossover to polite society
from the perv-in-raincoat crowd (though the latter showed up in droves
as well). In "Deep Throat," unfulfilled Linda Lovelace searches in vain
for sexual satisfaction until a Doctor discovers her clitoris has
migrated to the back of her throat leaving one method to achieve
orgasm. In "Lovelace," Linda searches for herself. The tight audio
montage at the film's open asks many questions about her.

Who is Linda Lovelace? Offspring of a harsh, domineering disciplinarian
mother and uncaring, absent father. (An offscreen pregnancy drives the
family from the Bronx to Florida.) A naive and sexually repressed young
woman opened by an abusive husband. A porn star bearing the standard of
the sexual revolution. A middle class mom who desires setting the
record straight through the autobiography, "Ordeal." Or an advocate
battling domestic violence.

Amanda Seyfried bares all, but is as flat as month old soda in the
title role. Sarsgaard semi-phones in his performance as Chuck, Linda's
scumbag husband. The film is peppered with cameos from Sharon Stone to
Eric Roberts and the venerable Debi Mazar. Their appearances add little
to the proceedings.

The resulting film, given the incendiary topic, is politically correct,
sleepy, excessively loose and ineffectual. As portrayed, after being
released from Chuck's oily grasp by a porn Producer, Linda continues to
ooze unhappiness to a denouement that's a half-hearted reunion with
mortified parents.

Though a worthy topic, the treatment of abuse is didactic and heavy
handed: a path to collar pulling and discomfort.

Factually, the real Lovelace (née Boreman) heavily promoted "Deep
Throat," denied performing in several bestiality and humiliation films
until they were produced to jog her memory, posed in "Playboy," and was
categorized as, "a sexual 'super freak' who had no boundaries and was a
pathological liar." There's also a psychologist's view she suffered
from PTSD.

"Lovelace" fails to answer the questions posed at the film's open. They
may be too difficult to be answered. Linda may just be that complex. Or
slippery.

Given the documentary "Inside Deep Throat" and a plethora of other
films and books, there's little reason for "Lovelace" to exist - at
least in this sanitized form. Linda was a victim, but here the viewers
are victimized by the filmmakers. Now you know how Linda (allegedly)
felt.
<|_=00=_|>
An impressive cast lending their talents to a fascinating story,
Lovelace brings Amanda Seyfried, Peter Sarsgaard, Sharon Stone, Robert
Patrick, Chris Noth, Adam Brody, James Franco and Eric Roberts together
to portray characters in the life of Linda Lovelace, a one-shot porn
actress that made headlines back in 1972 as star of the blue movie,
Deep Throat.

Amanda Seyfried plays Linda, a shy and fairly innocent young girl who
falls for Chuck (Peter Sarsgaard) , a mostly manipulative manager/pimp
that eventually becomes Linda's husband. Lovelace begins shortly before
Linda meets Chuck and establishes Linda's home life with her parents
(played by Robert Patrick and an unrecognizable Sharon Stone).

We first meet Chuck as he lays eyes on Linda at a roller skating rink
where Linda does an impromptu dance in front of the live band. Chuck
woos the younger Linda using his charm and the alluring freedom of his
adult lifestyle to eventually bring Linda to a point where she moves
out of her home.

The inexperienced Linda is comfortable enough to have Chuck film her
giving him oral pleasure and Chuck takes his Super 8 home movie to
Butchie Peraino and Gerry Damiano (Bobby Cannavale and Hank Azaria) who
are so enthralled with Linda's oral sex talents that they immediately
get producer Anthony Romano to provide the funds to make a film that
will eventually become Deep Throat.

We get a few topless scenes of Seyfried emulating the famous porn star
of the era and enjoying her fame until everything falls like a house of
cards due to Chucks violent manner and his insistence that Linda have
sex with multiple partners for the purposes of his own financial gain
and notoriety.

The film takes us beyond the filming of Deep Throat and we watch as
Linda copes with how the film put a strain on the relationship with her
parents and through her book deal and talk show circuit appearances
where she vehemently denounced pornography.

Laden with a talented cast, Lovelace fails to either have audiences
find fault or fall in love with our title character. Everyone in the
production come across as characters rather than actual people so it is
hard for a viewing audience to attach themselves  good or bad  to any
of the competent actors that make up the casting call.

Directors Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman simply don't chisel away at
the inner character or either Chuck or Linda with enough feeling to
make this a well rounded bio-pic. Instead, it flat-lines with any pulse
and does nothing more that attempt to be an exploitation flick about an
exploitation flick. Even as the time is captured fairly well in the
styles and moods of the early 70's, it ultimately fails in capturing
much of anything else including our attention.

The final title cards might have been the most interesting revelations
of the entire films. That Linda Lovelace died from injuries suffered in
a car accident at age 53. That Chuck Traynor went on to marry another
famous actress in the porn industry in his nuptials to Marilyn
Chambers. And how the movie Deep Throat went on to become the most
successful porn film of all-time raking in hundreds of millions while
Linda collected less than $2,000 for her starring role.

If you have always been interested with the film Deep Throat or the
incredible life of Linda Lovelace, you may want to seek out any of the
documentaries or A&E specials on the topic. Because Lovelace will just
leave you superficially satisfied.

www.killerreviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
This bio of Linda Lovelace is nothing more than a poor telling of a
fairly dull story made somehow even duller.

The first thing that strikes anyone who knows anything about the back
story or Linda herself will realize that LL was not a very attractive
woman so picking the very cute Amanda Seyfried for the role was a bad
move to begin with. LL had a major scar on her chin from a car
accident, but in this movie she does not.

Seyfried is way too innocent and childlike in her acting, the real
Linda was a bit rough around the edges and a pretty wild girl, I mean
she had sex with dogs in a few shorts before Deep Throat, all this is
left out in the film.

"When they need a 65 year old woman to do an X-rated movie and I'm 65
I'll just be ready to do it" - LL

The movie is full of factual errors and anachronisms, some of them are
just so obvious it's just silly and LL story has changed so many times
over the years no one knows the real truth, but I assume the abuse was
real.

DT was not filmed in widescreen but is shown in the theater as if it
was.

The car in the intro to DT was a blue 1970 Caddy Eldorado hardtop, not
a red convertible.
<|_=00=_|>
I was looking forward to seeing Lovelace since I heard about its
announcement. The cast makes a case for seeing the film regardless of
what the film is actually about. I think the story of Deepthroat as
well as that of Traynor and Lovelace are both very intriguing. Despite
having all of this going for it, I was let down. The pacing of the film
is the biggest problem. The film leisurely introduces us to the cast
and the relationship between Traynor and Lovelace, so leisurely in fact
that I was wondering when the darker elements would be exposed. At only
92 minutes the film feels a lot longer. Anyone with any knowledge of
the story at all will wonder how they're going to wrap it up as the
film meanders only to make abrupt leaps in time. 

It makes sense that the directors chose to end the film in 1980 as
opposed to 1984, because any longer and the film would have felt
interminable. This does hurt the film, though. The way the subsequent
events of 1980 are handled is rushed to the point that it feels
amateurish. I imagine the pieces that were cut could have been included
had there been a tighter edit of the rest of the film as a whole. The
way the narrative is handled is wise - cutting back to show different
interpretations of the story - because so many have disputed Lovelace's
claims.

All that being said,the film has its entertaining sequences - mostly
thanks to the performances which are great. Also, the production design
never feels hokey or inauthentic (which easily could have been the
case). Another issue is that the brutality of what Lovelace claims to
have endured is watered down here (for obvious reasons), but it always
feels like they could have pushed it further. The scenes of abuse seem
so choreographed (and rushed) that it is hard to feel the weight or
emotional impact that is intended. All of the threat and malice is left
up to Seyfried to make real, which she delivers on, but it shouldn't be
entirely on her. Even Sarsgaard's cruel moments as Traynor don't match
the sleazy charm he conveys at other points in the film. It's as if the
filmmakers just expect the top notch set decoration and costumes to be
enough to convince us of the terrible events just by bringing them up.
At one point Linda cries to her mother (Sharon Stone) that her husband
hits her; sure we see him toss her around but the domestic violence is
mostly implied and it feels cowardly. That's the problem, in too many
ways the film just stops at almost.
<|_=00=_|>
It is quite surprising that sweet and wholesome Amanda Seyfried has
been cast as legendary 70s porno star Linda Lovelace. Seyfried, whom we
know better as ingénues in musical films like "Mamma Mia" and "Les
Miserables," how could she pull this daring stunt off?

"Lovelace" tells of how young and pretty Linda Boreman, from a strict
Catholic family, unlikely met and married a sleazy guy named Chuck
Traynor. 

First, she goes along with Chuck's wild idea to make a her a porn
actress, exploiting a certain extraordinary talent of hers which would
be the central theme of a little porn flick entitled "Deep Throat." She
actually enjoyed the heady success of this stardom as Linda Lovelace,
for a while at least.

In a sudden change of pace, the second half of the movie showed how
Linda was abused by her husband, physically, mentally, sexually,
financially. She quietly suffered this torture until she could not take
it anymore and fights to get her old life back.

The acting of Ms. Seyfried was quite good, as she was able to convince
us that she was Linda despite being cast against type. She will get us
on her side before the film ends. People who watch this film expecting
her to reveal more skin will be disappointed, as this Linda kept it
pretty clean on screen. The image painted of Linda was actually very
sympathetic as well, like it was all Chuck's fault. Ms. Seyfried played
the perfect naive victim.

Peter Sarsgaard was effectively creepy as Chuck from the start. You
really cannot understand how Linda would marry a guy like this. He
could have portrayed being more charming in the beginning to convince
us. But he looked like a creep even in that scene where he first met
with Linda's parents (portrayed by Robert Patrick and a completely
unrecognizable Sharon Stone.)

I think the main problem of the film was in its story telling. There
was a very abrupt and stark transformation from happy Linda in Act 1
and sad Linda in Act 2. I think the director was trying to be stylistic
about this, not telling these details linearly, instead going back and
forth in time. I think this could have been told more effectively
another way.
<|_=00=_|>
The twist in this movie is when Linda Lovelace is suddenly portrayed as
a victim rather than a willing participant in the porn industry. I
didn't buy it. Even after many many attempts to show her as the victim,
it seemed she always had numerous ways out. And she was never a woman
without means to get away (surrounded by lots of coworkers and friends,
many of whom implored her to fess up, and were rich and loved her or
saw her as an extremely lucrative meal ticket). Over and over this
movie tried to portray her as naive and innocent, i.e., she didn't
realize she was auditioning for a porn film. I wonder what she thought
was on the film her husband brought into the audition (spoiler alert,
it was her doing what she became famous for)? It doesn't really matter
how good the actors were, the script was childish and insulting to
anyone with a second grade education. I can't imagine why so many well
known celebrities chose to participate (maybe they didn't realize they
were auditioning for a movie about a porn star). Since both lead
characters real-life counterparts have died, the filmmakers could take
ridiculous liberties with the story. They were definitely given the
shaft.
