
Yes, yes, another talking-wild-animal film, complete with journey of
discover for the poor half- striped zebra who doesn't fit it. But I
found it to be a first-class effort of its type. Oh, yes, it does slow
down a bit in the middle; they could have tightened it up quite a lot. 

But some of the animated characters were quite clever, humorous, or
both. And the cultural memes and stories utilized in the plot, being
out of South Africa, were significantly different than the approach
that say, Disney or Dreamworks might have taken.

Your kids will enjoy it. And if you appreciate animation, you'll enjoy
a fresh approach to a familiar type of animated features.
<|_=00=_|>
I read the reviews here at IMDb praising this movie, saw the low score
and figured something wasn't right. Those reviewers will probably give
this a low score. It's my first review at IMDb and unfortunately it's
for the wrong reasons.

The comparison with The Lion King has to be done. It feels like a
COMPLETE, very bad rip off from beginning till the end with a little
Ice age here and there. It doesn't bother me that it's a rip off what
bothers me is that it's done so poorly. 

We have Scar the bad lion who even has a problem with one of his eyes
and the hyenas working for him. The female Zebra in Khumbas age being
his only friend and of course a parent dying within the first minutes
of the movie but it's hard to feel sad when there are no lines between
the two up until the death. Khumba makes two friends, Timon and Pumba
or rather Timon and Manfred (Ice Age), and travels to get his stripes
because everyone knows you can't be different. Manfred the mammoth from
Ice age, Mama V, has the only difference being a female buffalo but
with the same background story as Manfred and she almost looks the
same(big protective buffalo). After 15 minutes you will know exactly
how the movie is going to end, this is no joke and it was hard having
to sit through the whole thing.

The animation is nothing special, lazy I guess. The background seem
like still pictures and sometimes it feels like the animators didn't
know how to finish certain scenes, making the animals do some specific
things, so a few scenes end very abruptly. The zebras look the same and
are hard to tell apart at times. They are way too many and there's a
scene with a bunch of antelopes looking the same where they try to make
a joke out of this. This is a movie for children. The message with the
movie is that being different is okay, but for some reason you have to
prove yourself anyway so the message makes no sense. There is one good
joke if even that, the rest of the jokes keep getting explained all the
freaking time which makes me believe it's for children who doesn't get
the word play jokes but then again the jokes are so dumb and cheap so
the explanations are unnecessary.

The music is nothing special. In less than a minute it goes from happy
to scary/intense to sad. What are we supposed to feel, irritated?

Side note: One reviewer said something about many inside jokes that
could only be understood by South Africans. If that's the case which I
guarantee you is not it would just be another reason not to see the
movie. If however you aren't from South Africa.

Conclusion: It's been done before so many times and so much better.
This movie is far from original and I'm sorry but I really can't
recommend it for any reason except for that one good joke I guess which
may only be good since all the other ones are so bad. Want my advice,
go watch The Lion King or Ice Age again instead.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
I just finished watching Khumba and i found it very interesting,
enjoyful and funny to watch. This is by no means only a child movie,
even adults will enjoy them. I liked it :) To begin with? The animation
is wonderful(at one moment i thought, is this animation), the story is
moving, the characters are well written and lovable. Even the "side
villain dog" is lovable and funny in a way. You may find out the story
a little stereotypical but the journey it will take you through is
enjoyable and you are not bored at all. OK the Ostrich is sometimes a
bit over. Thats all. There are other characters like tiger, buffalo,
rabbit, eagle, Gazelles, hedgehogs apart from zebras that you will
surely enjoy.

I even enjoyed it more than "Frozen" which is creating a hype nowadays.
Just go ahead don't listen to negative criticism and give it a watch.

This is my first review ever here and English not my first language so
please ignore any errors.

I give it 7.5 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Khumba is a young zebra who is only partly striped. Blamed for drought,
he goes off to search for a magical waterhole accompanied by a lady
water buffalo and a camp ostrich, and hunted by a leopard.

This is a workmanlike CGI feature aimed at kids, and quite effective.
It suffers from fairly mercilessly calling up The Lion King in its
early stages (most of the Lion King characters have analogues, the
character dynamics and motivations are similar, and it even has Pride
Rock in it), but it settles down to tell its own story. Animation and
voices are good (Liam Neeson is particularly effective), and there are
some gorgeous lighting effects.

This is entertaining if unexceptional.
<|_=00=_|>
Review: It's not exactly the Lion King, but it's a fun movie with
laughs along the way. The storyline was average for a kiddie movie and
the whole half striped zebra thing was original but not that great. The
thing that saved the movie was the different characters, who were quite
funny and definitely great for the kids. The director tried to mix up
the humour with adult and kiddie jokes but the animation wasn't that
great. It won't go down as a classic but the journey of Khumba does
have a hidden moral to the story which is sweat and enjoyable for the
whole family. Average!

Round-Up: Some of the voices throughout the movie are very recognisable
and they were a great choice for some of the animals. From Liam Neeson,
Laurence Fishbourne and Steve Buscemi, they were a great addition to
the cast, but it movie lacked proper humour like the Lego Movie or The
Incredibles. I appreciate the attention to detail of some of the
scenes, but the animals looked very basic, along with some of the
backdrops but that's just me being picky. Anyway, it's great fun if
your watching it with the family, but for an adult, the jokes weren't
that great.Â 

Budget: $20million Worldwide Gross: $11.6million

I recommend this movie to people who are into there animated movies
about a half striped zebra looking for magic water so he can get
stripes to cover the rest of his body. 4/10
<|_=00=_|>
An excellent movie for children. Best of Kumbha is that unlike other
children's films, has a nice positive message against discrimination
and transmitted to children important values.

The movie is entertaining, is not boring and has very funny parts, the
kids really enjoy seeing it. 

The film is suitable for children, unlike other films like 'UP' or
'Monsters.SA', you will not find adult humor hidden or double meanings,
everything is exclusively aimed at children.

Note that it is not a blockbuster like Disney or Pixar studios, since
the quality of the 3D animation is not as good as these, the 3d has
good quality.
<|_=00=_|>
An elaborate, compelling and exotic variation on the ugly duckling
tale. Khumba, a young zebra, becomes an outcast because he lacks
stripes on part of his hide. Some in the zebra community call him "half
a zebra" and blame him for a drought and their bad luck. Despite a love
interest questioning Khumba why he cares so much about what the others
think, he leaves her, the community and his family in search of a magic
water hole that might change his fortunes. In doing so, Khumba puts
himself in the path of Phango, a leopard that feeds on heartbeats and
fear as much as the carcasses he consumes. Also a misfit, Phango was
banished by the other leopards due to blindness in one eye. Phango
learns to rely on other senses besides sight to survive, yet believes
that having everyone live in fear of him changes who he is and for the
better. Khumba trusts and assists other animals to find his way through
the desert. A hopeless case when he started out, Khumba learns that
things do change for the better, but not always as expected. A
beautifully animated film with colorful sunsets, glowing eyes,
waterfalls, moonlight and desert mountains. The personalities of the
animals are diverse, humorous and intriguing, despite frequent
references to rugby and soccer that many kids outside South Africa
might not get. Steve Buscemi, Laurence Fishburne and Liam Neeson join a
chorus of other charming and talented personalities who provide their
voices to the wildlife.
<|_=00=_|>
Was very pleasantly surprised by Triggerfish Animation Studio's debut
feature 'Zambezia'. It wasn't a great film, inexperience did show and
it was rough around the edges. With that being said, it was colourful
and entertaining, and also liked that it was made with effort and good
intentions and that it had a heart of gold and tried to attract a wider
audience.

Actually do feel similarly about Triggerfish's second film 'Khumba',
except while 'Zambezia' was decent to pretty good, some elements like
the music and voice cast very good, 'Khumba' ranged from average to
decent while also having good elements. 'Zambezia' was also the better
film to me because of having more consistent pacing and better
characters and story. Very little in 'Khumba' is awful, it does have
some very good elements even, it's just unexceptional. It is better
than 'Zambezia' in the sense that it doesn't try too hard and does less
rather than being too busy.

This, with that being said, also presented a problem. As well as being
a more derivative plot, being strongly indebted to 'Madagascar' and
especially 'The Lion King' as said before and not doing enough to give
its own identity, the pacing isn't as smooth here with a middle act
that drags rather. And while it was a good thing in a way to leave
things uncomplicated 'Khumba' actually makes the mistake of making
things too simple. The script is weaker, the humour has its fun amusing
moments but lacks the wit and quirkiness of that of 'Zambezia' and too
much of the dialogue is trite.

Lack of refinement and low budget still shows in some of the animation,
if not quite as much inexperience, a lot of the character designs
looking rather stiff still as well as blocky. Not all the characters,
generally far more stereotypical, are successfully done (likewise with
some of the voice acting), the worst of the stereotypes are overdone
and very hammy. The biggest offenders being the hammiest, overly-camp
ostrich in animation in Richard E. Grant's Bradley and wannabe-sassy
but actually annoyingly abrasive in Loretta Devine's Mama V.

However, the character designs apart, the animation in 'Khumba' is not
bad at all. Again, it's surprisingly good. The scenery is beautifully
realised and the colours capture the excitement and colour of the
safari world to dazzling effect. Most of the voice acting is fine. Liam
Neeson's subtly menacing Phango, the always entertaining Steve
Buscemi's Skalk (the film's funniest character), stoic Laurence
Fishburne's Seko and affecting (but underused) Anika Noni Rose's
Lungisa are the standouts. Phango and Skalk are 'Khumba's' strongest
characters in a film where there are perhaps too many (this wasn't as
much an issue in 'Zambezia'), though the protagonist is likable enough
and isn't made too perfect.

'Khumba', like 'Zambezia' was clearly made with good intentions, with
some poignantly delivered values and messaging that makes its point but
doesn't patronise. It clearly knows what it wants to be and who to aim
at, and is not too juvenile or sugary sweet for adults and also not too
dark or overly sophisticated for children. Again, 'Khumba's' to appeal
to its target audience, to all ages, to all the family and to a wider
audience is most admirable, though 'Zambezia' did it better due to a
stronger story.

Best of all is the music score. Beautiful, evocative in its
Isicathamiya-influence, atmospheric and energetic, it's simply
wonderful and the only uniformly and consistently exceptional asset of
'Khumba'.

Overall, colourful and watchable enough, but also a little bland and
doesn't quite make it. 5/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
Perhaps not 10, but yet more than 7. Somebody else here wanted to rate
it 10, but gave it a 7 because at the beginning of the movie the word
"ass" was used in front of his younger children. My god, really? Yes,
it not nice when you would have a movie with people cursing from the
beginning to the end. No for children. But this? Really?

If my children, when they were wrong, heard such a word, I explained it
to them. Letting them have their own conclusions, finally. But, by the
way, ass is a part of the body. They should learn where that belongs,
isn't it?

When there is shooting and killing, or raping, or abusing people,
physically or mentally, wouldn't that be MORE a movie to disapprove for
children to watch?
<|_=00=_|>
Absolutely loved "Khumba." It was light-hearted and funny, and yet at
the same time really touching and poignant.I found the characters of
Khumba and Mama V really refreshing. And Liam Neeson was positively
terrifying!!! 

Many parts of it reminded me of The Lion King (which is one of my
all-time favourites!!) So in one way, I found it like a beautiful South
African version of the childhood movie I love. (Spotting the Pride
Rock-shaped rock, the stampede and the Rafiki-like mantis made it feel
really close to home!)

I think my favourite scene has got to be the one with the Springboks -
I almost cried I laughed so hard! Loved the scenery, culture and
colours - the animation was phenomenal! Will definitely be watching it
again :)
