
It's a shame that some of this film's structural flaws will keep many
from seeing one of the best on screen performances I've seen in years.
Hiddleston's Hank Williams is a masterful creation: haunting, driven
and soulful with the added bonus of Hiddleston doing his own singing
and playing (no lip-syncing) including Hank's famous yodel. 

While the film would have benefited with less marital squabbling and
more music, it nonetheless takes one on an gripping journey of an
American music icon's tragic life and short but amazing career.

Elizabeth Olson as Audrey, William's headstrong wife, does a fine job
but I could have done with less of their relationship story and more
about Hank's musical process. Cherry Jones is also excellent as Hank's
bossy mom.

The stellar singing in the opening segment is worth the price of
admission.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the movie last fall, just a few weeks prior to the original
release date. I was happy with the choice of Tom Hiddleston as Hank
Williams. He had the physical look to carry it off and I know he has
the talent. I just wish I could say the same with the script.

This story seems to focus on his first marriage and that relationship.
Out of everything Hank Williams did, this is what they focus on? Other
than the music, they barely touched on everything that made him such a
colorful character. It didn't help that there was little chemistry
between two lead characters. Lifetime movies have better stories and
chemistry.

Tom Hiddleston did a nice job with his singing but that isn't worth
watching this movie. Hopefully, this will get buried and someone with
more knowledge of Hank Williams can bring more deserving movie to the
screen.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm only 25 years old, but I have almost all of Hank's music and have
read multiple books in high school about him (including "Hank Williams:
The Biography" by Colin Escott). So needless to say, I had high hopes
for this movie.

I feel like my high hopes were mostly met. I thought the movie did a
very good job of laying out Hank's life and showing his stardom as well
as struggles. I didn't like as much that it was rated R vs a PG-13 for
"Walk the Line", but then again, anyone who has studied Hank knows that
his life was rough and he wasn't candy-coated by any means. 

I think Tom Hiddleston does a very good job as Hank, though maybe not
QUITE as spot on as I would've liked. But when a big movie comes out
about probably my biggest musical artist of all-time, I won't complain.
From what I've read, Mr. Hiddleston was basically trained to be as
spot-on as possible, and when I saw the movie, he had me believing it
was Hank. Elizabeth Olsen did a very good job as Audrey as well.

Overall, I quite enjoyed the movie and am anticipating any special
edition releases when it comes out on DVD in a few months. Of course,
there were moments of sadness especially toward the end, but there were
also moments of happiness and (at least for me) a few chuckles.
Although I wouldn't rank this as high as "Walk the Line" in my list of
biopics, it was definitely worth the price of admission to me and I
would totally see it again if given the opportunity.
<|_=00=_|>
"I'm So Lonesome I Could Cry" or "Your Cheatin' Heart" might have been
better titles for the Hank Williams biopic, "I Saw the Light." The
story written and directed by Marc Abraham has too much emphasis on his
lonely, cheating persona that led to divorce and broken hearts along
the arc of this film's 1944 to 1953, when he died of too much drugs and
alcohol. After seeing Amy, about Amy Winehouse, I'm waiting currently
for a softer biography, say of Perry Como.

Anyway, Tom Hiddleston's turn as Williams is hypnotically spot on from
tics and Southern drawl to hats and all the charm in between.
Hiddleston is a good singer who seems to have captured Williams in a
masterful interpretation of a manic depressive genius. That's my major
concern with the story: I want more of the music, its creation and its
challenges, and much less of the personal and domestic warfare, led by
his wife, Audrey (Elizabeth Olsen).

Olsen's Southern accent is impressively accurate without being too
twangy although her singing is not up to Huddleston's level of
smoothness. Audrey was apparently a strong woman who interjected
herself into the studio as well as the home. Although she isn't as
memorable as June Carter Cash, she is a force in Williams' life. At a
point I was sympathetic to her and her children, who were small players
in Williams' life.

I guess if you really want to know Hank Williams, listen to his songs.
If you want to see what Loki can do outside of science fiction, see him
play Hank Williams in I Saw the Light.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a movie critic, just an ordinary person who loves sitting in a
dark theater and letting the magic take over. I Saw The Light was pure
magic. Tom Huddleston, whom I'd never heard of before, was perfect for
the role of Hank Williams. He took me back in time and let me see the
pain and suffering the icon faced daily. Hank's was a tortured soul and
maybe that contributed to his greatness. Huddleston captured that and
pulled back the curtain, letting us see inside the man. I think
Huddleston did an excellent job with not only the songs (his voice was
flawless) but with the exact mannerisms and nuances of Hank Williams. I
thank him for doing such an awesome job and for a short time whisked me
back so I could once again enjoy the icon's music. It was difficult to
keep my feet still because I wanted to get up and dance. This was a
great movie and I hope to see Tom Huddleston in other roles.
<|_=00=_|>
I've got to hand it to director Mark Abraham. All the things he got
right in "I Saw The Light" were far more impactful than things he
missed. After reading other reviews I thought I was going to come away
from the movie unsatisfied, but instead it was the opposite. 

I really like that this movie was a more subdued and intimate look at
Hank Williams. It's not fast paced or a high frequency drama. It's an
intimate peak into the personal side of Hank during the last 5-6 years
of his life with singing performances speckled throughout. The acting
performances are fantastic especially Tom Hiddleston who transforms
himself into Hank beautifully and does a fine job singing Hank's songs.

Many of the complaints of the film were from people who wanted to see
the historical Hank Williams film. The whole boilerplate biopic from
childhood to all the milestones of his rise to stardom and the impact
he had on American music. People wanted to know why Hank was the way he
was and did the things he did. Yet conflicted, talented artists tend to
always defy being wrapped up into nice, little 120 minute boxes with
definitive explanations supplied. 

With that in mind Abraham did the next best thing and what was always
his intention, created and showed a personal experience of Hank. To
have the audience feel what it was like to be in his life. In that
endeavor the director got it right many times over. By casting
Hiddleston to play such a complex and conflicted person, it humanizes
Hank and makes him relatable. Tom's performance allows people to have
an endearing empathy and compassion for Hank and see this troubled
cultural hero from a personal perspective.

Although there's a lot the director left out or only made reference to,
the main problem with the film is in the weaving of all the many
relationships and chapters of Hank's tumultuous life into a cohesive
harmony. Still "I Saw The Light" delivers an insightful and engaging
experience of the great country star that we have never seen before and
with a masterly produced soundtrack that sets the tone and carries you
through this little beauty of a film.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Most Hollywood musical biopics
follow a similar and predictable structure, which is why Walk Hard: The
Dewey Cox Story was so easily able to parody the genre. Of course, the
legendary singer/songwriter Hank Williams deserves more than
predictable storytelling  but unfortunately, that's exactly what he
gets here.

Tom Hiddleston delivers a spot on physical impersonation of Hank 
right down to the slightly hunched over (due to Spina Bifida Occulta)
posture and bouncy onstage waggle. Yes, the very British Tom
Hiddleston, who plays Loki in The Avengers and Thor movies, has managed
to capture the presence of one of the all-time great Country and
Western icons. Mr. Hiddleston worked on the beloved songs with Rodney
Crowell and delivers some very nice singing - so nice in fact that the
singing is distracting and misleading. Hank Williams sang his songs in
angst  a tortured soul seemingly without choice in his need to share
his art. No one could be expected to perform with that emotion, and the
void is obvious.

As source material, director Marc Abraham (Flash of Genius, 2008)
utilizes "Hank Williams: The Biography" co-written by George Merritt,
Colin Escott, and William MacEwen. It may be the least creative title
possible for a biography, and the movie correlates perfectly. We track
Hank's early days as a struggling singer whose dream is to someday
perform on the hallowed stage of The Grand Ole Opry, to his gas station
marriage to Audrey May (Elizabeth Olsen), through his alcoholism, drug
use, womanizing, superstardom, fall from grace, and ultimately tragic
death at the age of 29.

Despite the nature of Williams' short life, the film only skims the
surface and rarely digs too deeply. The steady stream of women/wives is
difficult to track  perhaps that's the point. Audrey is the only one
who gets much screen time and Ms. Olsen plays her as an ambitious shrew
who comes across as impossible to like and as unwilling to work at the
relationship. A staggering number of Hank Williams songs are embedded
as merely interludes separating scenes of misery for all involved 
especially Hank, who seems to find little joy in life.

We've all seen the destruction that fame often leads to, and when
combined with Hank's painful back disorder and relentless alcoholism,
it's little wonder his body simply surrendered at such an early age.
The movie just seems a bit too high-gloss for such a tortured soul, and
despite the best efforts of Tom Hiddleston, the film is not worthy of
someone who left the musical legacy of Hank Williams.
<|_=00=_|>
Growing up I was more familiar with Hank Williams Jr. and his music
still I heard stories about the life and hard times of his legendary
dad Hank Sr. and how that his life was short and tragic. With this film
a biography typed called "I Saw the Light"(a hit Williams song)it's
very informative and interesting as it shows the rise and complex life
of a man who battled the bottle and women which all lead to his tragic
young end.

Tom Hiddleston is in top form as the country legend he plays Hank to
near perfection from his accent to his posture and movements and
actually does a pretty good job singing Hank Williams songs. The film
just really is a chapter by chapter turn in the life of the country
western music legend showing his rise to fame sadly the fame was mixed
with man problems like failed marriages and many different lady friends
and Hank had plenty of kids with different mothers as they gave birth
to them out of wedlock. And his biggest inner personal demons was his
battle with the bottle, it's clear the sorrow and sadness of Hank's
short life was fueled by alcohol and whiskey. Overall well done film
that shed light on the tragic life of a young legend.
<|_=00=_|>
The best part about going into a film with low expectations is being
pleasantly surprised. "I Saw the Light" is Marc Abraham's biopic about
country music legend, Hank Williams, starring Tom Hiddleston and
Elizabeth Olsen as Williams' first wife, Audrey. I am no fan of country
music, but I'll be honest, I am a big fan of Tom Hiddleston.

Despite living a very short life (Williams died when he was only 29),
Williams managed to write and release dozens of hit singles and leave
an everlasting mark on the history of music. "I Saw the Light" attempts
to capture this short, but brightly burning star, in his entirety and
in doing so, manages to miss on most everything. There is no denying
that both Hiddleston and Olsen give remarkably nuanced performances and
Hiddleston's transformation from English gentleman to smalltown
Southern boy is nothing short of brilliant, but sadly not even their
acting can make up for a poorly conceived and executed story. The
story, while apparently linear, jumps from place to place, with little
explanation, thus leaving the audience to try and fill in the missing
pieces, which is an impossible task for those who do not know Hank
Williams' life.

"I Saw the Light" is a flawed film from the structure, to the script,
with some truly cringe worthy lines, to some terrible use of hand held
cameras, yet I still enjoyed myself. Knowing that it was not a great
film, I was able to just focus on what were Oscar worthy performances
by both Hiddleston and Olsen. I left with little understanding of Hank
Williams, but perhaps a better appreciation of his music. It was a fine
way to spend a few hours on a Sunday afternoon. If you like Olsen or
Hiddleston, it is worth seeing, otherwise wait for streaming or other
media.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie yesterday and was pleasantly surprised. It is hard
to turn your eyes away from the screen. I had to remind myself that I
was not watching the real Hank Williams...Hiddleston is that good in
the part. His movements as he sang were just like Hank. He sounded
good, too. Hard to believe he was actually singing and talking like
Hank...and Tom is a Brit. I also liked the slower pace of the
movie...gave me a chance to feel Hank's back pain, love, loss,
alcoholism. The 40s-50s time period was a treat to watch along with all
the old recording equipment. I especially enjoyed seeing the vintage
kitchen...even had the long sink/counter that people would take with
them when they moved in those days. After I watched this movie, I got
out my old Hank albums and listened again. So good and gone way too
soon.
