
Let's talk plainly here... A poodle could of seen this trailer and
automatically knew this wasn't going to be Hollywood masterpiece. If
you saw the trailer and then still bought a ticket, then you don't have
anything to complain about if you hated this film. This movie is about
Gargoyles, Demons and Frankenstein!!! I doubt the best movie minds of
all time could of turned this plot into a well made movie. It's SCIENCE
FICTION people, not every film can get an 8.0 on IMDb. 

With all that being said, I have to honestly say that I enjoyed this
movie. Maybe I enjoyed it because I didn't go into it with high
expectations. Yes, the plot was OOOVEEERLY simple, but it did have
pretty good special effects and there was plenty of action sequences.
Also, I'm a fan of Eckhart, Nighy and Jai Courtney. I would love to go
into detail and use all type of specific film lingo to review this
movie, but I would be wasting your time. If you want to escape reality
for an hour or two and your a true sci-fi fan, I recommend this flick.
If your looking for a movie with Oscar potential, you should sit this
one out.
<|_=00=_|>
I must admit that I enjoyed watching this supernatural action flick
heavy on CGI effects despite its flaws. I wondered why afterwards.
First, it seemed to follow from the book events and made a good point
that the creature is not actually called Frankenstein. However, the
"creature" itself, played by a strong Aaron Eckhart (Harvey Dent in
Dark Knight) did not look like any previous incarnation. Mostly, it
looked like a normal-sized, muscular, even handsome man with scars, not
like a tall, grotesque, patchwork of a man as it should have been. So,
the film following this trend of making "monsters" sexy bugged me, but
the performance of Eckhart won me over. He might not have emoted much,
as befitted the character who didn't learn how, but he certainly had
the charisma and gravitas necessary. He didn't look the part but he
acted the haunted, grim part very well.

So, the story starts not long after the end of the Frankenstein book by
Mary Shelley at the end of the 18th century (1795). While burying his
creator, Frankenstein, he find himself attacked by "evil" demons (who
look like men, but with demonic faces sometimes) and rescued by, of all
things, "good" gargoyles (who look human except when they're CGI
gargoyles). The creature is brought to the gargoyle leader and quickly
given a name, Adam. He's made an offer to join them in a secret war
against the demons over humanity's fate. He declines and lives the next
200 years alone (would have been nice to see, but glossed over in a few
minutes), defending against demons. Cue modern day, where his presence
is revealed once more to the demons who are trying to bring back life
to dead bodies for their own purposes.

So, instead of the overbooked vampires and werewolves, we have demons
against gargoyles, plus Frankenstein's creature thrown in to act as
wild card. I, for one, found that refreshing. However, the demons
looked and acted like standard evil vampires, except when you saw their
red eyes or their faces reverting to demonic. Except for their
sophisticated leader, they were quite underwhelming and even boring
from lack of personality. The gargoyles fared a little better,
switching from medieval-looking, grey-tunic-wearing human warriors to
big, winged stone gargoyles like you see on some old churches. They
were supposed to be good (angels in disguise), but I liked their
ambiguity. I didn't initially care for their obvious CGI looks, but
they eventually grew on me, and who knows what animated gargoyles might
look like anyway.

Foremost, this is an action flick, not really drama or horror, so it
doesn't delve much on the inner psychological turmoils of Adam or his
everyday "normal" life, nor does it try to scare or gross you out.
However, the somber, tormented portrayal by Aaron Eckhart (mostly with
his face and eyes) made him an interesting anti-hero. The action itself
was peculiar. There were cool set pieces where tons of demons fought
gargoyles around a very impressive-looking Gothic church. It had an
epic feel to it, it was quite exciting, but you seemed distanced from
the action because it cut things fast and the camera often pulled back.
Also, there was a particular vibe as the numerous, weak demons were
mostly slaughtered by the fewer, powerful flying gargoyles. It was
usually one blow, one kill. On the other hand, you had one-on-one
fights involving Adam that were very good for the most part. There were
still quick cuts, but it wasn't abusive, sometimes lingering a bit on
an angle, making for more involving and easier-to-follow battles. The
musical soundtrack was better than expected with epic-sounding
classical music and dramatic choruses.

Storywise, I found the concept interesting, the demons' motivation made
sense, and it didn't hinder my enjoyment with too much obvious
stupidity, except a few places where I thought things were just too
convenient (like no civilians in the streets or the "secret" base of
the demons being so close to the church of the gargoyles). The dialogue
seemed awkward or clich√© at times, but it was said with such sincerity
that it passed through anyway except for a few chuckles from the
audience. I liked watching the film, but I don't think I would have
wanted to pay full price for it in theatres though. It was like a
summer blockbuster but in the middle of the winter.

Rating: 6.5 out of 10 (Good)
<|_=00=_|>
To say that "I, Frankentein" was a waste of time would be an
understatement. Much like "Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters," "I,
Frankenstein tries to re-invent a classic tale for the action audience
with little success. Though to be fair, "Witch Hunters" at least had
some moments of memorable silliness and creative set pieces. "I,
Frankenstein" has neither, nor does it present its audience with decent
writing or memorable thrills.

The plot itself is a mangled-up mess and a failed attempt to re-invent
Mary Shelly's classic character. In this film, Frankenstein's monster
(played by the seemingly disinterested Aaron Eckhart) somehow gets
involved in an ongoing battle with demons and gargoyles after the
events of the classic story. Everything from his backstory to the
motivations of the demons and gargoyles is told in rushed exposition
and gives absolutely no time for the audience to care about any of the
characters. It doesn't help that the editing and pacing is extremely
choppy, often skipping hours and years into the future with no
reasonable transition. 

In the span of what feels like five minutes, the film tells
Frankenstein's backstory, introduces the demons and gargoyles, explains
their ongoing war, shows a training montage of Frankenstein learning to
use the gargoyle's weapons, and suddenly cuts from the 18th century to
present day. Nearly all of this is done in cheap narrated exposition
and it kills the possibility of the audience getting attached to the
characters.

Now, I'm sure many people can overlook a lackluster script if a movie
has "good action." Unfortunately, this movie fails in this department
too. All of the fight scenes are bland and dull with redundant, badly
executed CGI. Perhaps the most frustrating example of this is that
every time a demon is killed on screen, it turns into a swirling
fireball. This effect looked cool for about a minute and it quickly got
stale, especially when the demons are dying left and right and the
effects start to look like they've been copied and pasted. 

The PG-13 rating also takes away the possibility of even a little gore
to entertain the horror buffs. This is especially a shame because there
are some very sleek and polished weapon designs that look like they
could have been used for some good ole hack-and-slash fun.

Little effort seems to have been put into this film, and even a
big-time star like Aaron Eckhart can't elevate the material. Here he
seems dazed and bored, almost as if this film was just a project to
waste some time. In fact, none of the actors seem interested, and with
the exception of maybe two awkward line readings, there is nothing to
laugh at either.

Like many films released in January, "I, Frankenstein," comes across as
filler and it is not even worth a view on Netflix streaming. Between
the poor script, the dull characters and the bad effects, there is next
to nothing here worth enjoying. After watching this, I actually
appreciated "Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters" more; at least it had
some effort put in it.
<|_=00=_|>
With a miserable 5% on Rotten Tomatoes, it seems like I, Frankenstein
is one of the worst movies in 2014 and it is only January. The abysmal
rating made me lower my expectations and surprisingly it is a solid
entertainment. Sure, it doesn't impress on any level but for a January
movie, it is an entertaining one.

The story: The story is as generic as a Direct-To-DVD movie can be. The
Frankenstein's Monster, Adam, is caught in a battle between Gargoyles
and Demons. Many decent action and 'dramatic' scenes are squeezed into
the brief runtime of 1 hour 32 minutes. Thankfully the pace moves
briskly without becoming boring. However, the short runtime also poses
some problems such as skimping on characters' development. But it is
expected as this is a mindless action movie which relies more on action
and CGI than story and characters' development. Acting wise is okay,
nobody impresses. Bill Nighy is playing his usual self as a villain.
Aaron Eckhart has nothing much to emote as an emotionless monster
except fighting and showing off his body. The rest didn't particularly
stand out. Music is surprisingly good and fits the tone of the movie.

3D: For a post-converted 3D movie, it looks good. There is a good depth
between characters and backgrounds. It is also effective when it comes
to action scenes especially the flying of Gargoyles and the bursting of
the demons.

Overall: It is obvious that I, Frankenstein tries to follow the success
of the Underworld movies. On its own merits, it provides an
entertaining watch with decent special effects and action. I guess it
could do better if it is released straight to DVD. It may not be great
but for a January movie, it is a decent watch with decent 3D.
<|_=00=_|>
I, Frankenstein is a January monster movie starring Aaron Eckhart in
the classic role of Frankenstein's monster. Did you really expect a
masterpiece? 

I, Frankenstein is not a total mess. The film does contain some
impressive special effects, as well as cast of reasonably well-known
actors that help the audience to trudge through the incredibly
predictable and uninteresting story. The events of the classic
Frankenstein novel are hashed out in less than a minute, as
Frankenstein's monster encounters a group of demons, followed by a
group of gargoyles, neither of which seem to have any motivation for
what they're doing. He's given the name, "Adam", wanders the world for
200 years (which passes in 2 minutes of movie time) and finds himself
in the middle of the gargoyle-demon war in modern times. 

The story that follows is one fueled by terrible pacing, unclear
character motivations, and dry dialogue. The fast paced introduction to
the film leaves little time to invest in any of the characters, and
even Adam's motivation throughout the film is incredibly unclear. It is
difficult to invest in a character who doesn't have a soul. 

If you're a fan of the Underworld series, and can appreciate good
special effects, you may find some enjoyment with this one. Otherwise,
I would pass.
<|_=00=_|>
Stop beating up on this movie. It does not deserve such shoddy
treatment. This is not a bad movie. It's part sci-fi, part horror, with
the emphasis on the former. The Frankenstein creation is humanized.
There is nothing wrong with that. The movie successfully places the
creature in the present. He even has a name. Aaron Eckhart delivers a
wonderful performance as the first artificially created humanoid. He
gives his character depth. This movie is not a ripoff of the original
movie. True, the story is contrived, but it is also entertaining. The
forces of good and evil are clearly defined and their struggle for
supremacy plausible within the context of the story. The movie asks the
audience to accept as a premise that there are metaphysical forces at
work that are not readily discernible. For some, that may be a bit of a
stretch, but remember: it's a movie. The movie is entertaining,
well-acted, has good continuity and a briskly paced story. This movie
is worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer for I, Frankenstein says it all. Does the dialogue look
stupid and clich√©d? Yep! Does the action look boring and uninspired?
Yep! Does it look like it was made BY middle schoolers FOR middle
schoolers? You got it! Nothing will surprise you here. It hits every
predictable beat and hits them with the grace and subtlety of a cow
walking a tightrope¬Öawkwardly and dumbly. The characters are rote and
predictable, the makeup and cg (while not bad) is leftover from "Star
Trek: The Next Generation", and the entire viewing experience is
laborious and forgettable. Set in modern times, Frank is over 200 years
old and gets caught in the middle of a war going on between gargoyles,
demons, and other fantastical characters. Clearly this isn't Karloff's
Frankenstein; it's more in the vein of stylized Gothic action films
like Underworld or Blade. Gone is the stumbling, sympathetic horror of
the Mary Shelley; instead we have a Batman-wannabe shooting for
mysteriously cool and coming off as just lazy and unrelatable. Poor
Aaron Eckhart is still trying to find where he fits in Hollywood, and
this isn't it. Fun game idea: see how long you can stay awake through
this movie. Sure, there are copious fight scenes and mildly complex
characters but no rational explanation for anything plot-wise. It may
have helped if the filmmakers had their tongues more firmly planted in
their cheeks, but instead we are left laughing AT them instead of WITH
them. With so many great things in theatres right now, don't waste your
time on this.
<|_=00=_|>
Where before it was vampires versus werewolves, it is the battle of the
gargoyles and demons that takes centrestage in the fantasy action
thriller 'I, Frankenstein'. Based on the Darkstorm Studios graphic
novel by one of the creators of 'Underworld', it tells of its titular
character's struggle between good and evil in the midst of an all-out,
centuries old war among two immortal clans of superhuman creatures. But
as exciting as that may sound, you'll quickly find that the burden of
'Underworld' hangs too heavily like an anchor around its neck.

Indeed, you had better take the tagline at the top of the poster which
reads 'from the producers of 'Underworld'' seriously. Too faint-hearted
to mess with a formula that has worked for four films now, the same
team of producers and 'Underworld' co-creator Kevin Grevioux have
simply applied the same to their unabashed attempt at replicating its
success. And that is precisely what co-writer and director Stuart
Beattie has done in his sophomore feature film, which plays like an
equally dark but less sexy clone of the decade-old franchise. 

Like 'Underworld', the lead protagonist finds himself an outsider
caught between two warring factions. Whereas Selene was a human turned
vampire who found herself falling in love with a Lycan (or werewolf in
short), Adam (Aaron Eckhart) is here a monstrosity borne from
Frankenstein's laboratory who finds himself wanted by both the
gargoyles and the demons. A freak of nature not of Nature's making,
Adam is also thought to be soulless, and therefore a perfect living
example of the 'walking dead' whom the demons hope to create by
summoning the souls of the damned to inhabit the walking warm bodies on
Earth.

By virtue of being an outsider, either protagonist soon realises that
he or she can trust neither side. While Selene discovers the ones who
killed her family were in fact her own coven of vampires she now calls
family, Adam is during the course of the movie betrayed by Gideon (Jai
Courtney), the leader of the gargoyle army, and no less than Leonore
(Miranda Otto) herself, the angel whom Gideon and his army protect and
whom serves as their spiritual link with God. Indeed, both narratives
unfold such that their lead protagonist finds himself or herself
isolated on either side and is therefore forced to be his or her own
best guardian.

That personal battle also has to take place against a much larger
canvas in which one side is plotting an ambitiously nefarious plan to
once and for all wipe out the other side. In 'Underworld', it is the
Lycans who plan to use a human to wipe out the Vampire Elders; while in
'I, Frankenstein', it is Prince Naberius (Bill Nighy) who intends to
use Adam himself as a specimen to bring to life an army of corpses to
overrun the gargoyles and thereafter exterminate the human race. Is it
any surprise that our protagonist will eventually choose to be on the
side of good, rather than a blind follower of either faction?

Even if these similarities don't quite register by virtue of the fact
that either movie did not have a compelling story to begin with,
there's no escaping that the art design of 'Underworld' and 'I,
Frankenstein' are strikingly similar. For one, both unfold largely
against dim and grim surroundings of moonlight and shadows. For
another, there is a distinctive choice to ensure that the entire movie
is cast in shades of black, grey and otherwise very dull colours. Yes,
there's no escaping the self-seriousness of 'Underworld' or 'I,
Frankenstein', which approach their apocalyptic doomsday scenarios with
the utmost solemnity.

And yet, their mode of storytelling is first and foremost to ensure an
endless stream of VFX-heavy action sequences clearly intended at an
attention-deficit audience. More so than Beattie's repertoire of summer
blockbusters (think 'Pirates of the Caribbean' and 'G.I. Joe: The Rise
of Cobra'), this clearly eschews plot and character moments over
gargoyle-versus-demon action, so don't go in expecting anything more.
That being said, it also sees Beattie going bigger than he's ever been
with the setpieces, and some of them - such as a daring raid on
gargoyle soil by an army of demons - are quite a visual spectacle to
behold, particularly in the contrasting use of light and fire whenever
a gargoyle or demon is killed.

As is to be expected then, none of the roles call for much from their
respective actors - except maybe for Eckhart to look the most buff
we've ever recall seeing him been on the screen. Bill Nighy should
certainly know - he who plays the chief villain here was also the key
baddie in 'Underworld: Evolution'. Certainly, he should be distinctly
aware of the intention to recreate the success of the 'Underworld'
movies by essentially rehashing the same formula with a different set
of monsters. You'll be advised too to toss aside what preconceptions
you may have based on Mary Shelley's novel or even Boris Karloff's
monosyllabic screen icon; this 'I, Frankenstein' is more 'I,
Underworld' than anything else
<|_=00=_|>
There's something to be said for big, dumb blockbusters featuring
immortal creatures of the undead, gargoyles, demons and a whole lot of
CGI. That's especially true now, during awards season, when the cinemas
are otherwise crowded with Important Movies that might be worthy but
difficult to watch. I, Frankenstein even lurches into cineplexes with a
bit more credibility than is typically attached to C-grade movies:
usually reliable character actors Aaron Eckhart, Miranda Otto and Bill
Nighy have signed on to rain hellfire (or something) down on one
another. It's a shame, then, that the overly dour film wastes rather
than benefits from their talents.

Forced into a shambling semblance of life, Victor Frankenstein's dark,
brooding creation (Eckhart) stalks bitterly through the centuries. He's
hunted mercilessly by the forces of evil - flame-streaked demons led by
the nefarious Prince Naberius (Nighy). On the side of good are the
gargoyles, a peaceable clan who enjoy the blessing of the heavens and
are led by the beautiful Queen Leonore (Otto). Bequeathed the name of
Adam by Leonore, Frankenstein's creature soon discovers that he is the
factor that could tip the scales in the immortal battle between the
demons and the gargoyles.

I, Frankenstein is entirely too grim for its own good. Kevin Grevioux's
screenplay, adapted from his graphic novel of the same title, marches
forward in workmanlike fashion. Plot 'twists' can be seen coming from
miles away - see the sassy blonde scientist (Yvonne Strahovski)
directed to investigate Adam's origins grow increasingly fascinated
with her science project! There are precious few shades of complexity
to be found in the film, the characters never really breaking free of
their archetypes - beyond the fact that the good guys morph into huge,
stony, winged gargoyles that aren't particularly pleasing to the eye.
Fiery explosions and bone-crunching battles abound, but they never
amount to very much in emotional terms.

The unexpectedly good cast liven things up a little, though not by
enough to drag I, Frankenstein out of the doldrums. Eckhart storms
stoically through the film, a singular grave expression carved into his
features like so much rigor mortis. Nighy seems to be having fun even
while phoning in his performance. As for Otto and Strahovski, both
actresses are competent but largely colourless in their roles.

Genre flicks like this one don't usually have to check a lot of boxes
to be fun nights out at the cinema. The Underworld franchise - from the
same producers - proved just that, spinning its surprisingly rich tale
into four films that haven't been critically successful but have
nevertheless cultivated their own fans. On the strength (or lack
thereof) of the gloomy, predictable I, Frankenstein, it seems unlikely
that it will kickstart a new franchise in quite the same way.
<|_=00=_|>
Dr. Victor Frankenstein (Aden Young) dies frozen to death and the
creature (Aaron Eckhart) buries him at the cemetery of his family.
However he is attacked by demons but he kills one of them and Gargoyles
save him and take him to a Cathedral where the Gargoyles Order gathers.
The Queen of the Gargoyles Leonore (Miranda Otto) keeps Dr.
Frankenstein's journal together with the treasures of the Order and
gives the name of Adam to the creature. Then she explains to Adam that
there is an ancient war between the Gargoyles that are angels and
demons under the command of the Prince Naberius (Bill Nighy). She also
invites Adam to join the Gargoyles in the war against demons, but Adam
prefers to isolate in a remote place.

Two hundred years later, Adam returns and finds a modern society. Soon
he learns that Naberius has the intention of creating an army of
soulless corpses to be possessed by demons. The scientist Terra (Yvonne
Strahovski) is researching a process to create life and Naberius is
seeking Dr. Frankenstein's journal to help Terra and raise his army. 

"I, Frankenstein" is an entertaining adventure of Frankenstein in the
middle of a war between angels and demons. This 3D movie has top-notch
special effects and explosions without being special. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Frankenstein: Entre Anjos e Dem√¥nios" ("Frankenstein:
Between Angels and Demons")
