
I love Kevin Hart don't get me wrong. His stand up is hilarious and I
also love Ice Cube's movies AND the two of them have great chemistry on
screen and all but....it wasn't that funny. This movie had its' funny
parts but the problem is most of them you already saw on the preview.
This won't go on my list of funniest movies I've ever seen but it had
decent action and decent humor. It had a little twist toward the end
but thinking of the premise movies like Meet the Parents were funnier
or Twenty one jump street or The Heat but what can I say it was filmed
well and the two of them together provided enough entertainment so the
film is worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I Really wanted to like this movie. I usually enjoy Kevin Hart and Ice
Cube I have followed since the Friday movies. But even the last Friday
movie was more fun than this. The problem is it has all been seen so
many times before and better! the characters are more caricatures than
characters. The jokes you know long before they actually happen. Ice
Cube is being more "badass" than in XXX 2, which only makes him appear
more moronic. But my biggest problem with the movie is Kevin Hart. That
guy can be sooo hilarious! this movie is the ONLY movie where I did not
find him funny at all, and at the end were only annoyed by him. A real
shame......
<|_=00=_|>
Fresh off of his hit stand-up comedy film, "Let Me Explain," Kevin Hart
returns to the big screen with "Ride Along." While it may be far from
the most memorable comedy, I can't help but admit I enjoyed sitting
through it. 

Kevin Hart plays Ben, an eccentric man who wants to marry the love of
his life, Angela (played by Tika Sumpter). Before he does, he seeks to
get the blessing of her brother James (played by Ice Cube), a tough,
loose cannon cop. In order to prove he's worthy of marrying James'
sister, Ben must join James on a day on his job as an officer.
Eventually, the two get wrapped up in a case neither of them were
expecting. 

As expected, the film plays out like a typical buddy-cop comedy: a cop
teams up with someone he doesn't like or agree with and the two have to
attempt to get along. While this basic plot line has indeed been done
to death, this film makes the fortunate decision to skip out on many
movie clichés. There is no third-act-breakup, no mopey montage, and no
"you're off the case" or "you're fired" scene. While a lack of these
clichés does hamper the conflict, it is quite refreshing to see them
absent from the film. On the other hand, the script lends itself to
other flaws. Several scenes seem to be included for the sole purpose of
filling time (such as a random cameo by Jacob Latimore that amounts to
nothing). Moreover, the story can be very predictable at time, even
with a couple of random and nonsensical plot twists thrown in. Still
though, there is a lot of good to this film.

The dialogue, while far from quotable, is consistently funny and is
almost guaranteed to keep the theater laughing. The jokes are delivered
on a regular basis and never stray too far into campy or mean-spirited
territory. Unlike films like "Identity Thief" and "A Madea Christmas,"
the tone of the film never strays from a comedic romp and always keeps
the laughs coming. 

Kevin Hart's performance itself is arguably worth the price of
admission. Hart's lines are delivered with the impression that he is
enjoying making this movie, and his high-energy presence is sure to
please his fans. If you are a fan of Kevin Hart, you will most likely
enjoy his screen-presence and his great chemistry with Ice Cube even if
you find the script to be lacking. 

"Ride Along," may not go down as a comedic legend, but in my eyes, it
is certainly worth checking out at least as a rental. The flawed script
can indeed be overlooked by the gleeful dialogue and Kevin Hart's
enthusiasm. I'd say give it a shot, it wouldn't hurt to check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
I like Jason Mantzoukas work and it is a shame to him involved in this.
I can't blame him for getting a check. At its best, Ride Along is
tolerable. Ride Along was only watchable due to the fact that I've
enjoyed these actors in other movies. Kevin Hart is the sole actor to
bring any humor out of the script, but given the flat performance of
Ice Cube, Lawrence Fishburne and the rest of the cast, I just can't say
that Hart's part is enough reason to watch. Also, plot points are often
introduced to soon be abandoned for the next minor plot point.Ride
Along tries to be a comic version of "Training Day," only there's
nothing in it as funny as Denzel razzing Ethan. There's nothing much
funny in it at all. At its worst, it borders on insulting. A collection
of moldy gags that director Tim Story tries to polish.
<|_=00=_|>
There are some laughs here, but overall I found this comedy to be
rather lame, stale and ridiculous. When you have 4 screenwriters
listed, as in this film, it's usually a bad sign.

Kevin Hart and Ice Cube star here, with Hart portraying Ben Barber,
who's a rather diminutive high school security guard and expert video
game player. He's in a loving relationship with Angela Payton (Tika
Sumpter), who's very proud of Ben when he's accepted into the police
academy.

However, her highly overprotective brother James, played by Ice Cube,
is a Detective with the Atlanta Police Department, and he feels Ben is
certainly not good enough for his sister. James is gruff, volatile, and
a loner on the force, but he agrees to take Ben on a ride-along for a
day of police work.

James' main intention though is to place Ben in one impossible
situation after another, on the streets of Atlanta, so he can prove to
Angela once and for all that Ben doesn't have what it takes and is
really a "loser".

Finally, as Ben closes in on a major arms deal that's going down with a
major crime-lord, named Omar (Laurence Fishburne), it all culminates in
an overly long, absurd, and predictable finale.

All in all, the plot here just seemed to be a "one-trick pony", with
the same theme being run over and over. Combined with the flat humor, I
was glad when it was over.
<|_=00=_|>
No matter how popular this film becomes at the box office, Kevin Hart
no longer has to prove himself as being worthy of a lead star. His
comedic timing and graceful style more than prove that in Ride Along.
The trouble is that the film itself is so lacking in almost any
originality or intelligence that he would have had to do a lot in order
to show himself worse than the movie.

Playing the comic relief in a pale yet obvious retread of 48 Hrs. and
Training Day, Hart fully utilizes his short stature and body language
to his strength. Being rather short, indeed shorter than his female
co-star Tika Sumpter, Hart compensates by playing a man-child with a
large inferiority complex. Constantly attempting to prove himself
capable of something of value, he still cannot help but invoke his
knowledge of childish things, mainly video games. He also cries in
terror, jumps into his brother-in-law's arms and looks for acceptance
at every turn. He is, in fact, a fully-grown imp. What is astonishing
about him is how he uses this to carry the movie along. Scene after
scene drags along with the obligatory sense of having been done
countless times beforehand but it is Hart's sentimentality that shines
beyond the dull narrative. Though his facial expressions are often
overwrought, he is still capable of carrying scenes purely through his
timing and understanding of comic development. At times, he sounds like
he is improvising a stand-up bit. Other times, he seems to invoke the
speed-demon, whirlish style of Eddie Murphy. No matter his tactic, he
makes it count despite a lack of support. 

Making things more frozen than necessary is Ice Cube, scrunching up his
face in attempting to portray a hard-ass of a cop; one of those lone,
righteous moralists who is willing to go against any and all authority
in order to prove himself as being right all along about his case. Of
course he is, but what is confusing is how the film seems to condemn
his behavior as a loner, yet justifies his actions during the course of
the story. It is never clear which side the movie falls on and it most
likely does not matter. Truthfully, none of the characters or plot
points seem necessary at all except to showcase the difference between
Hart's ambitious high-school security guard trying to become an Atlanta
policeman and Ice Cube's tough-as-nails detective on the hunt for the
most ferocious kingpin in the city, so terrifying and imposing that no
one has ever seen his face (You will guess who it is right away; the
opening credits give it away). 

The biggest fault in the screenplay is its lack of developing the
relationship between the two key characters: Ice Cube and his sister.
Supposedly, they are very close due to being raised in foster homes,
leading to him playing over-protective daddy to her. The trouble is the
writers never give them a scene for themselves. What kind of
relationship did they have or have now? And how has it changed as they
have gotten older? And, furthermore, what is Ice Cube's personal life?
Does he have one? Clearly, these were not on the writers' or director's
mind. The final priority seems to have been only to ensure Kevin Hart
came out looking like a fine-bred, comedic leading man for years to
come. In this, the movie has succeeded. However, the makers of the
movie should not pat themselves on the back. Save that for Mr. Hart
himself, the only saving grace in this entire tired, formulaic story.
<|_=00=_|>
We've all seen this type of movie before. It's a buddy cop flick where
the 2 guys don't see eye to eye in the beginning but by the end they
learn to appreciate one another. The only difference with this one is
that Kevin Hart is trying to get approval from Ice Cube to marry his
sister.

No need to dwell on the story as the trailer pretty much describes it.
Ultimately, if you like Kevin Hart you will more than likely enjoy this
movie. I for one, am a huge fan and love his stand up. I also liked him
in "Think Like A Man". His physical comedy as well as comedic timing
are very good. I probably wouldn't have even seen this movie if he
wasn't in it.

So a 6/10 is purely based on the fact that I wasn't bored throughout
the film and I did laugh quite a bit, not extremely hard but enough to
where I didn't regret seeing this in theaters. Like I said before, the
main reason is Kevin Hart, if you're a fan of his see the movie. If
you're not, skip it.
<|_=00=_|>
Ride Along with Kevin Hart and Ice Cube isn't reinventing the game but
Hart is hilarious and worth the watch.

Ben is trying to win over his girlfriend's brother James, so James
invites him on a 24 hour Ride Along patrol. Ben thinks it's to get to
know him but James is really trying to scare him away.

Technically speaking the plot is about how Ben interferes while James
tries to capture a leader of a crime syndicate Omar while on the ride
along. Really the ride along is just excuse for insane situations to
occur within that setting.

Long term this movie will probably be pretty forgettable. As a comedy
it is consistently funny and reminiscent of old school improv riffs
with the antagonizing eccentric and the straight man. Kevin Hart gets
to be absolutely ridiculous, per the usual as Ben: running his mouth,
acting a fool, letting self deprecating jokes happen at his expense.
I'm a huge fan of the character Kevin Hart has created  while it is
the same in every movie it is enjoyable in every movie. Ice Cube is a
good polarity as James to Hart's Ben. His smile muscles might be
broken. At times he might even be too serious detracting from the
chemistry of the duo.

The situations these temporary partners get into are random and feel
like filler but are funny comedy routines and I'm glad they are still
in the film. In an ideal world the writers would've cleaned up the
script for a more believable story. Despite this Ride Along is
definitely worth the rental just for Hart's antics.

More reviews at our website!
<|_=00=_|>
Ben (Kevin Hart) is a high-school security guard who dreams of
attending the police academy and joining the police force in Atlanta.
The closest Ben has ever gotten to a gun, however, is playing Tour of
Duty at home. Ben is in love with Angela (Tika Sumpter) and wants
Angela's brother, James, (Ice Cube) to give them his blessing to get
married. James, who is a cop on the Atlanta police force, has a better
idea. Take Ben on a ride along with him to show him how dangerous
police work is. James is on a case tracking a gun-runner named Omar
(Laurence Fishburne) who nobody has ever seen. Does James find the
elusive Omar, and does Ben help him or give up his dream of being a
police officer?

Why does Hollywood keep churning out this derivative junk? If you've
seen Beverly Hills Cop, 48 Hours, Silver Streak, Rush Hour, or the
Lethal Weapon movies, you have seen better versions of Ride Along.
Hollywood has taken a formula, the cop buddy movie, a formula that used
to work, and watered it down into some messy amalgam of a threadbare
story, some gun play, car chases, and explosions, typical Hollywood
filler. The formula worked primarily because Richard Pryor, Gene
Wilder, Mel Gibson, Eddie Murphy and Jackie Chan are much more talented
than Kevin Hart. And worst of all, it took five guys to write this
inane drivel.

Kevin Hart didn't make me laugh once, I've never seen any of his stand-
up routines, but I hope for his sake, they are better than this horrid
film. Hey Kevin Hart, Chris Tucker called, he wants his career back.
You took all his short, screechy, annoying black guy roles away from
him. I've seen Eddie Murphy and Richard Pryor do stand up and their
movies did not even come close to capturing the genius of their stand-
up. I doubt if anyone is calling Kevin Hart's comedy routines genius. I
know what Kevin Hart is doing, he's making as many movies as he can,
before somebody finds out how unfunny he is. It worked for Tyler Perry,
it will work for Kevin Hart.

Ice Cube plays what he always plays, the Angry Black Guy, complete with
Scowl. John Leguizamo plays the token Latino, as if he's sleepwalking.
And Laurence Fishburne is throwing his career away for a buck. Gone is
the perfect elocution of the Matrix movies, replaced by some cheap
Justin Timberlake blackcent that doesn't suit Laurence Fishburne at
all. To give the character street cred? Come on!

Please save 100 minutes of your life, don't watch this movie.

For more reviews to get you motor running, visit my blog,
reviewswithatude.wordpress.com
<|_=00=_|>
When you think of Ice Cube you think of the hardcore rapper from NWA,
the gangster persona, not complex actor. Yet since becoming an actor
Ice Cube; real name (O'Shea Jackson), has developed himself into quite
the character actor. The comedic prescence of Kevin Hart and this
budding police comedy brings the movie full tilt. There is a great
story line that suggests looking for comfort and approval betweent
Hart's character and Cube's. There are hilarious comments throughout
the film and the writing was quite original. This is a great movie with
strength in the plot, the characters and just fun throughout. There is
no doubt I would highly recommend this to everyone. Kevin Hart is
becoming the fast uprising comedic actor of late.
