
The previews and commercials for Dream House led one to believe it was
a horror film, it is not, not at all. I think that is where a lot of
the disappointment is coming from. It is a pretty good thriller, once
you get used to the fact that that is what you are watching. The
storyline, basically that horrible things have happened and we the
audience have to figure it out along with the main character, is not
the tired thriller standard, or at least the details are different
enough to not seem tired. It's actually intriguing and the answer to
the mystery is not obvious miles out, even if the climax sort of is.
The acting is really quite good too. People who like mystery thrillers
should enjoy the film, fans of scary movies will mostly not like it.
<|_=00=_|>
Am I the only one that really liked this movie? Am I the only one that
thought it was insanely clever, with a sick double-twist ending? Maybe
not, but from the other reviews it seems like I'm one of the few! I
agree with the other review - I watched this because I thought it was a
horror movie, and it is much more of a psychological creepy awesome
movie. But it's good, enough said.

Daniel Craig and Rachel Weisz are great, enough said.

Written really well, and directed well. Once you think 'ah, nice,
cliché, I see the ending' - nope! Give it a shot, it's a really great
movie. I feel like with a few modifications it could've been even
better, on par with The Sixth Sense, but it was still great. I'd watch
it again.
<|_=00=_|>
Generic and predicable thriller made somewhat bearable by the
undeniable chemistry and acting chops between Daniel Craig and Rachel
Weisz, even though both actors involved deserved better than what they
were giving with the material. Daniel Craig and Rachel Weisz work very
well together on screen ( and supposedly in real life as well) but they
should have waited for a better film to showcase their chemistry and
acting chops then this film, which not only does not respect their
efforts in trying to bring humanity and credibility to a badly written
script but does not even try to at least capitalize on their efforts in
bringing more to the movie. Instead, the movie goes into several
different unnecessary directions that goes no where and drags this film
down. Naomi Watts is good as well but i just did not think much about
her character and found her an unnecessary, forced inclusion to the
story that ruins the film by making it even more predictable than it
already is. The film also feels like it was two separate movies before
it became one. Its a ghost story then it moves into a mystery with out
it making much sense, not to mention the fact of how predicable the
whole structure is. Let's just say that you have in fact seen this
story before.

Its alright for what it is but it could have been much more, especially
with two great actors (Weisz and Craig) having great acting chemistry
on screen.
<|_=00=_|>
This begins to look like the story of a successful publisher that
decides to quit his job and retire to the house of his dreams to live
there peacefully with his wife and children. But the story gets
complicated while it develops itself and the dream house soon becomes a
nightmare one after husband and wife know that terrible murders had
taken place there five years before and strange events still related to
it are still happening there and scaring them. But from then on the
story loses itself in a lot of loose ends making it very confusing
although most of them get tied up in the end in a somewhat fanciful
outcome. After a certain time we understand that the story mixes up
reality and imagination or even dream. The end of the movie may be
considered an open ending, happy or unhappy according to the viewer's
interpretation of the surprising final scene. The acting is good, the
thrilling scenes are good enough and the plot confusion doesn't spoil
the movie whole after all.
<|_=00=_|>
In New York, the successful editor Will Atenton (Daniel Craig) quits
his job in the GPH Publishers to move to the suburb New Ashford and
dedicate more time to his beloved wife Libby (Rachel Weisz) and his
daughters Trish (Taylor Geare) and DeeDee (Claire Geare) and to start
writing a novel.

The family is frightened by a stranger watching them through the window
and Will decides to investigate and finds teenagers in a satanic cult
in his basement. Sooner he discovers that the family man Peter Ward
killed his wife and his two daughters in that house five years ago.
Will goes to the police but the officers do not give attention to him.
He also learns that Peter Ward spent five years in the Greenhaven
Psychiatric Hospital but was recently discharged. 

Will tries to get more information about the murder with his neighbor
on the other side of the street, the divorced Ann Patterson (Naomi
Watts), but she refuses to give any information to him. Will decides to
go to Greenhaven to get information about Peter Ward and he discloses a
dark secret about the former intern that will affect his life in his
dream house. 

"Dream House" is a good mystery that deserved a better screenplay. The
story has a great potential and a surprising plot point but does not
develop well important characters and situations after the revelation
of the mystery. Usually this type of twist happens in the end, like in
"The Others", or "Ghost", or "Identity", or "The Sixty Sense". In
"Dream House', the mystery is disclosed too early and the last twist is
very weak and predictable. But anyway I liked this film.

Daniel Craig is one of my favorite contemporary actors and Rachel Weisz
is impressively gorgeous. Naomi Watts is effective, as usual, and the
relationship of Ann with her husband deserved a better development. My
vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "A Casa dos Sonhos" ("The Dream House")

Note: On 31 March 2012, I saw this film again on Blu-Ray.
<|_=00=_|>
Dream House had plenty of potential with its story, despite the fact
that it's completely derivative of two other movies. Revealing those
films would spoil the surprise, as they are both popular and
well-received by audiences and critics alike. The shame is not in the
copycat techniques but rather in the failure to exploit the stolen
ideas to the fullest extent. Dream House fuses the plots cleverly, but
fizzles when the first big reveal can be guessed 45 minutes in (if not
sooner)  and is then purposely betrayed at the one hour mark so that
audiences can ponder and digest the not-so-shocking revelation.

Will Atenton (Daniel Craig) has finally decided to quit his job as an
editor at GPH Publishers to spend more time with his wife Libby (Rachel
Weisz) and kids (Taylor and Claire Geare) and to start writing a book.
He moves to a large house in rural Fairfield County, which holds a dark
history. In his new home, undisclosed by his realtor, a father brutally
murdered his wife and kids. Will eventually learns that the unhinged
man, Peter Ward, spent five years in a psychiatric ward and was then
released  to a halfway house nearby.

Will's children aren't too fond of the considerable dwelling,
especially when they see a mysterious man watching them through the
window. Fresh footprints in the snow support their sighting, and Will
is repeatedly awoken by bumps in the night. The neighbor across from
him, Ann Patterson (Naomi Watts), knows something of Ward's
incarceration, but refuses to divulge information. Everyone in the town
seems rather tight-lipped about the deadly incident, and Will takes it
upon himself to get to the bottom of it. When someone continues to
harass his family by stalking the house, he visits Ward's institution
to uncover some startling evidence.

An accomplished, celebrated cast of characters gives Dream House a
higher quality (than its B-movie origins) and greater promise. Some
will say they're wasted on this script, but it's not as dismal as that.
Unfortunately, it's the kind of storyline that needs polishing, a few
more solid thrills, and smarter twists  or at least more intelligent
psychological zigzags. The serene music compliments the sense of
foreboding that steadily creeps into the picture, along with the savvy
use of mirrors, reflections, general mise en scene, and shuddersome
environment (namely the hallway and basement). Most of it is gimmicky
but effective. But as with any mystery, the solution is the most
crucial aspect  it's the one element that proves most memorable and
determines whether or not the film will be recognized as unique. If a
whodunit concedes a letdown, even its high points are unlikely to be
forgiven.

- The Massie Twins (GoneWithTheTwins.com)
<|_=00=_|>
Editor and author Will Atenton (Daniel Craig) quits a high power job in
Manhattan to relocate with his wife, Libby (Rachel Weisz), and two
girls to a quaint New England town. However, as they settle into their
new life, they discover that their house was the murder scene of a
mother and her two children. Will tries to befriend his neighbour Ann
Patterson (Naomi Watts) and find out from her what happened but she is
not too eager to talk.

Meanwhile, Will's younger daughter starts seeing someone lurking
outside the window at night. As Will pieces together the haunting
puzzle, he must find out who murdered the family in his dream house
before the culprit returns to kill again.

"Dream House" is not a suspense thriller that will jolt you with sudden
loud music and cheap scares. Instead, it plays games with your mind,
keeping you guessing about what's happening and making you sort out the
plot yourself. Now, if you like your thrillers done this way, then go
for it. If not, this one is going to be a nightmare...

Director Jim Sheridan's plot build-up is almost by-the-book and he
makes no apology for it. The opening scenes show Will as a devoted
father and loving husband. At first, his daughter's visions of a
shadowy figure are dismissed quietly, but when Will gets physical
evidence of someone lurking around, our curiosity heightens. Sheridan,
who gave us "My Left Foot" and "In The Name of The Father", is not
delivering this thriller to his audience in a platter. He just dishes
out the cards and lets his audience sort them out - at least until the
closing sequences.

At first, it feels rather weird to see beefcake Craig as a domesticated
guy. However, there is a good chemistry between he and Weisz who also
lends a loving and tender touch to the proceedings. The kids, played by
Claire and Taylor Geare, are also convincing and adorable. It would
have been great to see more of Naomi Watts but her role is rather
limited - and she acquits herself professionally. Fans of Rachel G.
Fox, the Scarvo girl in TV's Desperate Housewives, will find her in a
cameo as Ann's daughter Chloe. All in all, a thriller for the thinking
viewer.
<|_=00=_|>
Will Atenton moves into a dream home with his lovely wife and two
precious children. Weird things start to happen and the family
discovers an ugly secret about their house. Neighbors are acting
strange, the local police are no help, and investigating the house's
history begins to unravel the family, and gives way to other
supernatural dimensions. 

This movie could have been a terrific ghost story in the vein of
Shutter Island, The Others, or The Sixth Sense. Instead it loses focus
and turns left into a formulaic and somewhat random "whodunnit". More
like "who cares?". About halfway through it got boring and stupid and
illogical. What a waste of Daniel Craig, Rachel Weisz, and a totally
underused Naomi Watts. Recut and re-release it. There's a really good
movie in there somewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
What if, as in "Jacob's Ladder" and "Siesta", the ending changes
everything. In "Jacob's Ladder" we learn at the last moment that what
we have been watching has been the thoughts of a dying man. We learn in
"Siesta" at the last moment that Claire was murdered, and what we have
been watching is her remembering the events of the last few days. In
"Dream House" we learn that Will has just returned from a stay in the
country where he wrote the book "Dream House". If this is true, what we
have been viewing would appear to be the creative process that goes
through the writers mind as he is writing his novel. The film, to be
sure, has not been constructed as well as it could have been, but
viewing it again with the ending in mind may help.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this film with great expectations as I'm a great fan of
Sheridan's body of work and also happen to enjoy Psychological
Suspense/Horror films (NOT slasher film trash). So I was really quite
disappointed with this effort by a team that seemed to have so much
potential.

But now it all makes sense to learn that the final effort was yanked
away from Sheridan; which has resulted in a homogenized and generic
thriller made up of (and the result of) idiotic random
behind-the-scenes "creative decision making" by Test Audiences(?) and
less-than-passionate-about-the-story/genre Studio Heads whose primary
involvement was solely in getting a "Horror/Thriller" into theaters by
October in order to cash in on the Halloween audience.

Seeing this happen again and again, I doubt they will ever learn. This
is the only industry in the world where one (as a Producer) can "fail
upward" just because you got something (anything) produced (in the
can).

As a final note: There was a fantastic Spec Script floating around a
couple of years ago with nearly the same title... "The Dream House." It
was somewhat similar, as it involved an Architect & his family who
rehab & remodel an abandoned mansion by a lake; but THAT script was a
truly terrifying Horror/Ghost Story along the same lines as Shirley
Jackson & Robert Wise's quintessential B&W Horror Classic "The
Haunting." 

With this Dream House turning out to be such a dud and a nightmare,
hopefully that spec script will resurface in the near future to make up
for this failed effort.
