
The Coen brothers are known for being one of the best filmmakers of our
time. They both compliment each other perfectly. When I heard they were
remaking the 1969, John Wayne classic True Grit, I was extremely
excited and had incredibly high expectations of the film. Being a major
fan of Western movies, I was really interested how it would turn out. I
wanted the movie to be more faithful to it's original source material,
Charles Portis novel, than the 1969 film had been. I was also hopeful
that Jeff Bridges would fill the huge shoes of the classic, legendary
John Wayne. I was hoping that they would blend the humor of the
original 1969 film with some of the suspense or thrills from earlier
Coen brothers films like No Country For Old Men or Fargo. But not
become way too violent that it causes to stay completely unrecognizable
to Charles Portis classic novel. 

After seeing the Coen brothers new film, I have to say. My extremely
high expectations were surpassed. The movie actually surprised all the
hype I had, what an incredible film. The atmosphere, clothing, and the
buildings reminded me of the old classic Hollywood westerns they used
to make. I had a feeling of nostalgia watching the movie through the
end. I felt transported to another time period of the old western.
Hailee Steinfeld was amazing in the movie, I truly believe that this is
her breakout performance. Matt Damon and Josh Brolin were as usual
amazing. But the true star of the film has to be Jeff Bridges, in all
respects ( I don't mean to offend John Wayne or anything), I think Jeff
Bridges did a better job than John Wayne in portraying Rooster Cogburn.
His performance showed much more experience, strength and power, the
performance was pretty much unforgettable. Jeff Bridges handily
reinvents the iconic role of Rooster Cogburn in the Coen brothers'
back-to-the-book-remake. I congratulate the Coen for bringing back the
western genre, that Hollywood has ignored so much the last decade or
so. I can't stress enough how much I recommend this movie to people.
<|_=00=_|>
Those of you who wonder why someone would remake a good film, need to
withhold judgment until seeing this film. It was one of the most
authentic westerns I've ever had the privilege of viewing, and I am a
die-hard western aficionado, and true-west historian. The costumes, the
buildings, the interiors, and the dialogue were so meticulously crafted
that I felt entirely immersed in a world long since forgotten, and
often misunderstood. The acting was unbelievable as you'd expect from
such established, accomplished thespians, but Hailee Steinfeld was a
revelation, holding her own, if not carrying the entire film on her
relatively small shoulders. The Brothers Coen have justified their
choice to adapt Charles Portis' novel, not remake the John Wayne
classic. The impact, and visceral reality of life in such places and
times, coupled with the abrupt, brutal violence is something you didn't
fully grasp in the grandstanding, heroics of the 1969 version. I
applaud the Coens for exercising restraint and understatement to allow
the scenes and the situations to breathe and take there natural course.
Overall, it was an amazing cinematic experience that truly transports
the viewer to a very real and fully realized time and space that
crackles with fire and true grit.
<|_=00=_|>
As is to be expected, the film has all the classic Coen flourishes,
first and foremost its use of language. The Coens have always been
impeccably tuned in to language and accents, from the most creative use
of swear words in The Big Lebowski and Burn After Reading to the
colorful, stylized prose of The Hudsucker Proxy and The Man Who Wasn't
There to the very distinct accents in Raising Arizona, Fargo, O
Brother, Where Art Thou? and No Country for Old Men. In classic Coen
fashion, the use of language is very much emphasized in True Grit. The
characters have a very distinct use of words, lifted right out of the
novel and, as it feels at least, right out of the time period the film
takes place in. Unlike something like Deadwood which features a very
modernized and stylized version of 18th century speak, the dialogue in
True Grit sounds completely authentic and, along with the impeccable
and accurate-feeling costume and set design, really adds to the realism
of the world True Grit creates. Accents are also very important  the
harsh Southern drawl that the Coens have always been attracted to is
very prominent and plays a very large role in the film.

As has become expected of the brothers, especially in recent years, the
film looks incredibly beautiful, mainly thanks to regular DP Roger
Deakins' stunning cinematography. All of his trademarks are in place:
harsh but very naturalistic lighting, washed-out colors, especially in
the outdoor scenes, smooth camera movements, and just a generally
beautiful palette he uses to paint the world of the film with. Also
very prominent in the film is the beautiful score by Carter Burwell. It
hearkens back to his more melodic work on the Coen brothers' earlier
films, especially Miller's Crossing. Using themes from classic hymns
from the time period of the film, the soundtrack, along with the
language of the dialogue, helps add a very strong feeling of
authenticity to the film. It is a beautiful piece of music: dramatic
but not heavy- handed, whimsical but with a hint of darkness to it.
These two long-time Coen collaborators, as well as the costume and set
designers, with whom the Coens have also worked with many times before,
all deliver top-notch work and show once again just how strong the
power of long-term collaboration can be.

Other returning collaborators are a number of the cast members. The
Coens seem to have grown distant from most of their long-time regular
cast members (Jon Polito, John Turturro, John Goodman, Steven Buscemi,
and others), but Coen regulars still make appearances in some of their
recent work. In this case, it is "The Dude" Lebowski himself, Jeff
Bridges, who makes his triumphant return in a Coen brothers film,
filling the very large shoes of John Wayne, who gave an iconic
performance as Rooster Cogburn in the first adaptation of True Grit,
from 1969. Bridges brings his own unique style and sensibilities to the
role, combining his drunken goofiness with the demeanor of a serious
and very skilled hunter and lawman. It is a wonderful performance
playing to all of Bridges' best abilities as an actor, and it is just a
joy to watch. Also playing to his best qualities is Matt Damon, who
delivers one of the loosest and most fun performances of his career as
Texas Ranger LaBoeuf (or "La Beef", as he is referred to, by himself as
well, in the film). Damon is clearly having fun with the role, although
like Bridges, he, too, manages to find a very excellent balance between
the humor and the seriousness and skill his character has. But the
standout performance has to be newcomer Hailee Steinfeld, who beat out
15,000 other girls for the part. Open casting calls often provide
disappointing results, as nonprofessional actors tend to be just that 
not professional. 14-year-old Steinfeld proves she is a talent to
watch, though  she totally commands the screen with her strong-willed,
stubborn character, and manages to hold her own against Bridges, Damon
and Josh Brolin, who makes a brief but memorable appearance later in
the film. It is a fantastic, powerful performance that is an absolute
joy to watch. I foresee great things from Steinfeld in the future.

Many people will be turned off by the straightforwardness of the
storytelling in True Grit. I have already heard complaints that the
film lacks poignancy. But that isn't what it lacks. What it lacks is
irony. It's actually quite amazing to see a film so completely and
utterly devoid of irony such as this one  it seems like most films
these days, including the Coen brothers' recent output, all carry this
air of cynicism about them. True Grit hearkens back to a more classic
form of plot and character-driven storytelling, and in that sense, it
succeeds immensely. Ultimately, True Grit is a piece of pure
entertainment  and it is quite an entertaining film: thrilling,
engaging, and very, very funny. I have read many opinions claiming that
this "doesn't feel like a Coen brothers film," but its storytelling
style and techniques actually remind me most of another classic Coen
film, Miller's Crossing. That film was also completely stripped of
irony and instead focused on telling a good old-fashioned yarn, nothing
more, nothing less. So while True Grit is not one of the very best
films in the Coen's oeuvre, it is still just a darn good film overall.
<|_=00=_|>
Near the end of October, I handpicked True Grit along with Black Swan
and The Fighter as three films that could potentially go on to become
the film of the year. Joel and Ethan Coen were reuniting with Jeff
Bridges after all in True Grit and that was exciting enough, but the
Coens managed to take a remake of a western from 1969 starring John
Wayne and give it a modern retelling without desecrating the original
in the process.

Mattie Ross (Steinfeld) will stop at nothing to gain revenge on Tom
Chaney (Brolin), the man responsible for killing her father. She comes
across a U.S. Marshall named Rooster Cogburn (Bridges) who is equally
as drunk as he is reckless. As Mattie begins to make arrangements with
Cogburn, she meets a Texas ranger named LaBoeuf (Damon) who's been
tracking Chaney for months and is committed to capturing Chaney alive
and bring him back to Texas to collect his reward money. Mattie begins
to think she may have chosen the wrong man for the job once the trail
to finding Chaney becomes cold, but sometimes fate intervenes and has a
way of rectifying a dismal situation; what you so desperately seek is
right under your nose.

Roger Deakins did a hell of a job with the cinematography in this film.
The atmosphere in the film is just right to make it feel like this was
shot forty years ago with the technology of today. The way the film is
shot gives an authentic western feel that is impossible to ignore. The
opening scene is a great example, as well. We fade-in to a light source
slowly emerging on a black screen as the blurry scene slowly begins to
focus and we're shown the first tragedy of the film. The lighting was
also exceptional. Conversations around a campfire and in candle light
have never looked so great. One of the more enjoyable aspects of the
film is the use of snow. It always seems to be snowing whenever a
character relevant to the story has either died or has been critically
injured.

You spend most of the time in True Grit getting to know both Mattie
Ross and Rooster Cogburn along with the brief relationship they had. We
follow Mattie Ross as it's proved time and time again that she's
incredibly intelligent for a fourteen year old and, unless guns are
involved, is more than capable of taking care of herself. For her first
film, Hailee Steinfeld is impressive in an extraordinary kind of way.
Her stubborn attitude is portrayed in a way that makes Mattie come off
as a strong woman character who is still too young to be saying or
partaking in the events that unfold. Rooster Cogburn is another
memorable character to add to Jeff Bridges resume that he portrays to
drunken excellence. The one down side is that his rambling is
incoherent at times. Imagine having a wad of snuff in one cheek and a
mouthful of cotton balls in the other while trying to talk and that's
how Cogburn sounds more often than not. But what you are capable of
understanding is pretty brilliant whether Cogburn is telling a story
from his past and letting his dry humor shine through, trying to
convince LaBoeuf to let him rip out his tongue, or drunkenly trying to
shoot cornbread he threw into the air to prove that he's a good shot,
Cogburn is a rather colorful character that Bridges brilliantly
portrays. One man that may get overlooked is Barry Pepper. He doesn't
receive a lot of screen time as Lucky Ned Pepper, but he certainly
makes a lasting impression with what little time he does have on
screen.

True Grit is not chock full of gunslinging action and doesn't really
get the adrenaline flowing until the latter half of the film, but what
the film lacks in action is made up with longwinded and unintelligible
ramblings of a colorful drunk, the heavy detailing of a young girl
stopping at nothing to revenge her father's death, and a Texas ranger
who spends his time trying to convince everyone that he deserves to be
respected. The engrossing dialogue will put off some, but is probably
the aspect of the film that drives it the most. Beautiful
cinematography and incredible lighting certainly make the film look
like a genuine western film while Jeff Bridges gives another
performance that could see him get another Oscar nomination as Mattie
Ross may get one her first time out. Despite the film being a little
slow at times, everything else in the film is so fantastic that it
certainly should be considered one of the last must see films of the
year.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a fierce John Wayne fan. He was really great as Rooster in True
Grit. The new version is not the same movie as John Wayne's. Don't
compare the two. The story line's are similar, but that's it. This new
version is a whole new story than the one written for John Wayne. This
is a great movie, with truly great acting for all involved.

The 1969 movie was driven fully by Rooster Cogburn. This 2010 version
is truly driven by Mattie Ross. The performances by Stienfeld, Bridges,
and Damon shine. I would have liked to have seen Stienfeld and Damon
against John Wayne. Bridges was terrific as Cogburn. The story was far
better than I imagined it could have been.

I can't believe I said all this. I am one who absolutely hates
re-makes. Like I said this is not the same movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Few directors working today in America have mastered form like the
Coens, I discover this with every new film they make. True Grit is a
commercial film made to please but I don't see a compromise in the
making and it's still a distinctly Coen film if you pay notice. Try to
take out the Coen character from the film and the film breaks apart,
it's that tightly woven in the fabric of it.

A Coen film works for me in the face of it, but I'm always on the
lookout for what goes on behind, for the unseen cogs that grind out the
fates of their characters. As with No Country, I came to this film
looking to see is there a statement on violence, does it happen in a
certain way and is the universe indifferent to it, is life worth a
damn?

This one here works very much like the Henry Hathaway film from '69,
except everyone's better, where John Wayne played a character, Jeff
Bridges plays a man, and even Barry Pepper betters my beloved Robert
Duvall's turn as Ned Pepper. This probably won't do it for Jeff Bridges
because we've been accustomed to expect a certain degree of po-faced
seriousness from a great performance (he snarled and staggered in Crazy
Heart but he was serious about it), but he's one of the great actors of
our times and I find this again in his Rooster Cogburn. Clint Eastwood
also fell from a horse in Unforgiven and couldn't shoot a tin can to
save his soul, but Munny "was" a scumbag, Cogburn still is and I like
that. I like the courtroom scene where it's gradually revealed that he
won't only bushwack those he needs to bring to justice, he will lie to
make himself out to be the hero.

Another interesting aspect here is how the concept of the gunslinger
and the western with it has evolved. When John Wayne played Cogburn in
the Hathaway film the reward for the audience was the smirk of watching
John Wayne be that drunken failure. The casting mattered in our
appreciation. In the remake, most comments seem to point out that it's
a fairly traditional/entertaining western. The dastardly revisit of
something that was revisionist in the 70's oddly seems to give, in our
day, a traditional western. We've been accustomed to heroes who are not
heroes, and maybe the erosion of that heroic archetype says something
about the way we view the world now, as opposed to 30-40 years ago.
Then we were beginning to realize that wars are not gloriously, justly
won but survived and endured, now we know there is no clear struggle
between dual opposites and have grown disenchanted as that knowledge
has failed to prevent the same wars. Now we know there is stuff about
the legends that don't make the print, or we are suspicious enough
about legends to imagine them.

Is this a traditional western then? Watching True Grit through the eyes
of the brass 14yo girl reminded me of Winter's Bone, another film from
the same year. In both cases a young girl is determined to plunge
herself in a dark world of hurt and walk a path fraught with perils on
all sides to achieve a moral purpose, both films maintain an appearance
of realism, but what I get from them is a magical fantasy. This becomes
more apparent when Mattie falls in the snakepit, but what about the
hanged men who are really hanged high? The Hathaway film, ostensibly
based on the same material, missed that note and played out a straight
western. The Coen film unfolds as a hazy dream of that West. Although I
wished for more open landscapes, it makes sense then that film narrows
our gaze and clouds the margins. Perhaps we are even seeing the film as
Mattie relives the experience in her old age, an affair shaped by
memory and time.

This is the marvellous touch effected by the Coens on the material; the
minute recreation of the Old West as a historical place and the odd,
incongruous moments found within it annihilate any authority over the
material.

The epilogue is important in that aspect.

It's not only that Mattie's revenge didn't accomplish anything, that it
was for her merely another practical inconvenience to be bargained,
paid for, and settled, like her father's ponies and saddle or the
service of the US Marshall before, but that she clings to the memory of
it so fiercely. What's horrifying then is not so much the violence of
the West but the idealization of that violence. The film closes in a
time around the turn of the century, people like Cogburn roosted in
Wild West shows for a cheering audience, and Mattie is one of the
people who lived to tell the tales. Out of those tales, the western of
John Ford and Raoul Walsh emerged to print the legend. In a roundabout
fantastic way, the Coens give us the true account, the creation myth
behind the western.
<|_=00=_|>
True Grit is not a remake, but a re-imagining. Narrated by Mattie Ross,
played by Hailee Steinfeld, who makes her feature film debut, we find
Mattie picking up the pieces following the death of her father at the
hands of Tom Chaney (Brolin). A headstrong girl, Mattie isn't looking
for a handout; she's looking for justice. She is directed towards
Rooster Cogburn (Bridges), a Federal Marshall whose reputation for
shooting his prisoners makes him the right fit for Mattie's cause.

She is discovered soon after by LaBoeuf (Damon) who is also looking for
Chaney for a crime committed in Texas. Mattie's plan of riding off with
Rooster and LeBoeuf are short lived when LaBoeuf refuses to go out into
Indian territory with a "girl." Rooster, though reluctant at first,
escorts Mattie into the territory.

Though I am not familiar with the novel with which it is based on, I
would say that the Coens have done the story justice. Though you can't
replace John Wayne's take on Rooster, Bridges gives a different, more
rugged approach to the character. It wasn't "The Dude" or Bad Blake
from last year's Crazy Heart. He was Rooster Cogburn the way the Coens
wrote it. He doesn't step on Wayne's toes, but rather makes the
character his own.

One upgrade from the original film (one of several) was Damon's
portrayal of LeBoeuf. In the original, Glen Campbell played a much more
cooperative LaBoeuf than Damon. Damon is more independent and clashes
with Rooster more often. They're chemistry is much more believable and
enjoyable.

Another major upgrade is the music. Though the original has the
classic, big, sweeping score by Elmer Bernstein that many westerns of
the day were accustomed to, it just didn't fit the story. It made is
much lighter than it needed to be. Carter Burwell, whose previous work
for the Coens is simply sublime, gives yet another stellar score,
creating just the right mood and tempo. Rooster's charge at the end is
accompanied by a wonderful piece of music that brings you right in the
saddle with Rooster, guns-a-blazing, hollering and rooting for the good
guys. Burwell's sense of both the time period and the mood of the film
couldn't have been better.

Where would a Coen Brother's film be without some stunning visuals.
Roger Deakins, whose work is up there with the best of the day, does a
fantastic job capturing the sights of the wild west, in a way that
films of the 50s and 60s couldn't do. The way sunlight coats the
landscape, snow falling through the trees, and the shadows of a
flickering fire are just moments that stand out.

Lastly we come to Joel and Ethan, who might be the finest pair of
filmmakers working today. They are gifted in telling a story with
images and dialogue. Though not working with an original work, still
springs off of the screen. Not to mention the performances they get out
of their cast is second to none. Everyone is on board for this picture,
and it shows.

True Grit is a better film than the '69 version. The photography,
supporting cast, and all around production is better. Still, I have no
doubt that Rooster Cogburn will be remembered as John Wayne, I have to
hand it to Jeff and the Coens for putting on a spectacular film, both a
delight for the eyes and ears.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's get the comparisons with Henry Hathaway's version of the Charles
Portis novel out of the way. The Coen Brothers certainly knew that,
however much they want to 'go back to the source material,' their film
would play against Hathaway's version.

The Hathaway version, while tampering with details from the Portis
original, remains strikingly true to its story and theme. This is most
clear in the dialog - the decision not to tamper with Portis' language
was decisive for the making of that film. The Coens' tampering with the
novel is more subtle than Hathaway's film, but no less an
interpretation.

Approaching the characters and composition of the Coens' version
without reference to the Hathaway film apparently proved impossible.
For instance, the shoot-out at the dug-out cabin was re-written for a
night-scene, but the camera angles remain pretty much the
high-elevation shots Lucien Ballard provided Hathaway, inter-cut with
full body shots of people getting wounded and horses running (etc.)also
similar to Ballard's.

Two performance stand out as striking examples of reference to the
original film. Dakin Matthews seems to struggle mightily not to
recreate Strother Martin's interpretation of the horse-trader Stonehill
- and fails. Apparently Martin had the character down pat and there's
nothing but to reproduce his interpretation. Far more to the point is
Barry Pepper's interpretation of the desperate outlaw chief, Ned Pepper
- it is pure Robert Duvall. Pepper can only match Duvall's self-aware
determination - and he does - but he can't surpass it; nor can he find
another interpretation to set off against Duvall's.

As for the Coens' own re-interpretation of the Portis novel, what was
most noticeable to me were the minor points simply dropped out of the
story telling. The most irritating to me were a pair of lapses that are
interconnected and combine to make an important point about the
characters. 1. We never get to see Mattie tell Rooster that Chaney has
linked up with Ned Pepper (later Rooster does remark the fact, but how
did he learn of it?); 2 We don't get to hear Rooster's remarking how he
shot Pepper through the upper lip (because he was aiming at the lower
lip). These two incidents combine to let the audience know that
Cogburn's hidden agenda on the Chaney hunt is really Ned Pepper, he and
Pepper have something of a feud going on - which information fills out
the background detail for their final shoot-out. Except here we don't
have that connection.

Finally, the whole Mattie - Rooster issue: many critics are saying that
Mattie is more at the center here than in the Hathaway picture, which
focused attention on John Wayne's Cogburn. Not true. When we add up
screen time and lines of dialog, we discover that Mattie not only has
as much time and dialog in the Hathaway film but it is in much the same
proportion to Cogburn's as in this one. If most remember the Hathaway
film as a 'John Wayne film,' that is due simply to Wayne's bravura
performance.

Well, enough of the comparisons. Does the Coens' version measure up as
film worth seeing on its own accord? Yes; we are presented here with a
beautiful, frightening, amusing piece of 'Americana.' There are scenes
approaching dream-like states, as in the meeting with the bear-man, and
during Rooster's desperate drive to get Mattie to a doctor. Hailee
Steinfeld is quite engaging, and Matt Damon develops an intriguing
complexity that makes one wish he had more screen-time. Bridges'
performance is the most problematic - Bridges plays Cogburn as a a kind
of whimsical brute - as he rambles on with his life-story on the trail,
we get the gnawing sense that, if we were not along for a dangerous
manhunt and dependent on his abilities as a master man-hunter, Cogburn
would be someone we would not like to know. This develops a distance
between the audience and Cogburn that is actually rather on par for the
Coens - there are no 'heros' in the Coen universe.

Perhaps that's a good thing here. Mattie in her experiences with the
wild men of the old west has encountered something larger than her life
on the farm could ever get her. These are men who make their own laws
and are not bound to statutory codes or biblical decrees, and adapt
their own law to the wilds of the frontier that surrounds them. Mattie
is a confirmed church-goer with a good lawyer, and if she weren't so
determined on her revenge, she would actually be impossibly
small-minded and dull. This is a subtext to the novel that both films
attempt to convey, but neither quite captures, because it's difficult
for any film maker to admit that the central character of the story is
the least interesting.

The age of such wild-men has passed. It is not that wild-men do not
exist - wild-men show up quite frequently in Coen Brothers' films in
contemporary settings - but now they are corrupted by moving outside
the law and outside the commonplace, they grow sick and psychopathic.
The killer in "Fargo" feeding the partner he's killed to a wood-chipper
is as wild as one could get, but he is no longer larger than life, and
evokes only the sickness at the heart of modernity, not any adaptation
one would want to live with.

We look back at historical moments like those of the Old West because
anything seemed possible to them, whereas very little is possible for
us. But that might simply be a wishful delusion - and the Coens' clear
suspicion that it is really determines the limits of what they
accomplish here. They don't present the West as 'it really was,' nor do
they present what we want from it, rather they present a disappointment
with it. Rooster Cogburn is indeed 'larger than life,' but we wouldn't
want to spend any more time with him than we do.
<|_=00=_|>
Just came back from seeing "True Grit." Now this is the kind of film
that the average person goes to the movies to see. It was amazing,
highly entertaining, suspenseful, funny, and had a great story line.
Jeff Bridges was fantastic, as was Matt Damon. Josh Brolin was good
too, the only problem is I didn't get to see enough of him. He is
definitely an up and coming actor that I hope to see more of. However,
the best acting in the entire film was done by Hailee Steinfeld. Hailee
plays the role of Mattie Ross and she is incredible. She really is 14
and held her own with the likes of Damon, Bridges, and Brolin. This
film was an excellent western and comedy. There were several times that
the theater was filled with laughter. I will definitely see this film
again and may even purchase the DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
To be honest I was never a big fan of western movies... Somehow I made
myself to watch True Grit - had big doubts about it, but after all it
was Coen brothers movie and it got only positive reviews all over
internet. When the movie had finished I was completely stunned by how
the story got me into it, how interesting and absorbing it was from the
very first minutes!!! The characters were so genuine and extraordinary
in the same time. I guess each of them could have their own individual
movie, but here we had 3 of them crossing their paths of faith. Acting
was just PERFECT - honestly I think this is Bridges best role, not to
mention fantastic Damon and brilliant Steinfeld! In addition to that
scenography and photography was excellent. Everything gave the viewer
almost 2 hours of an amazing story, told in the best possible manner.
Thank you brothers Coen for this masterpiece!
