
British crime films are a very mixed bunch, for every 'Long Good
Friday' or 'Sexy Beast', there is a whole load of low rent, formulaic
fayre of diminishing returns.

This film has one advantage from the off, not being set in London - or
as many of the characters in the poorer films of this genre say it,
'Laanndan'. (Hiding those well brought up accents can be a strain
perhaps).

It's set in Brighton, a town (recently upgraded to a 'City') on
England's south coast. But not the Brighton known to many here in
recent years, the place of celeb second homes, nightclub culture, a
liberal place for homosexuals before most of the rest of the country
became more adult and relaxed about this part of society.

The Brighton of mundane suburbia is the setting, not the cultural
epicentre.

Largely set in a home, where Bill and his wife live with their 34 year
old son, we first see them, the father and son, after being acquitted
in a drugs trial, little to celebrate though - how did they get into
court in the first place? Who grassed them up - have to be someone
close, to their right little, tight little world of lower ranking club
employees and drug pushers.

The home is the actual dwelling of the actor playing the father, where
the son - his real life son - was actually brought up. Only the mother
is played by a quite familiar actress - Julia Deakin. The father, Bill,
being an ex hippy who wistfully reflects on the brief period of
apparent enlightenment through Cannabis and LSD, via yoga and the
Tibetan Book Of The Dead, before money, crime, harder drugs, intruded -
which swept up Bill too.

So begins a claustrophobic period of suspicion, paranoia, leading to
violence and murder. Between bouts of domestic bickering, including a
'meet my pregnant girlfriend' family dinner that is a mire of
passive-aggressiveness.

The cast are largely drawn - when they are not family members of the
writer and actor playing the son - from innovative and usually rather
dark comedy shows and stand up.

Micro budget it might have, but Down Terrace punches well above it's
weight. Lack of flash leads to a concentration on family dynamics -
albeit a deeply disturbing one - realistic script and genuine plot
shocks and surprises.

This film is refreshing, often laugh out loud funny - darkly funny
usually - intense and a real gem. Clearly a labour of love from the
small team involved in the whole production, a labour though of
inspiration rather than just perspiration.
<|_=00=_|>
Just released from jail, father and son Bill and Karl (played by real
life father and son Bob and Robin Hill) are patriarchs of a small crime
family. Their business and life in Down Terrace is plagued with
infighting. When Karl's estranged girlfriend claims to be carrying his
child, Karl's added priorities create tension amongst his immediate
family. Suspicions grow when the family believes there's an informant
in their midst that could send them all to prison for a very long time.

This film is hard to categorize. Some have called it a British version
of Sopranos. While it is a story about a crime family, there's nothing
very "gangster" about them. They don't dress or look the part. The
three characters, Bill, Karl, and Maggie (Julie Deakin), Karl's mother,
look and act like a regular blue collar family. They're not
particularly convincing as gangsters (which may be why they're so
well-hidden). For a good chunk of the movie, I had forgotten they were
gangsters at all. Kind of like the TV show Roseanne, they bicker about
regular family issues. Heavy with dialogue and awkward situations, the
film plays almost like a comedic sitcom. It could have been about any
family business and it would have worked.

There's realism and candor in the film's look and style. Characters
talk about everyday things. Characters are often irritable, unkempt,
and cumbersome. The camera is often hand-held, jerky, and frequently
focuses on the mundane. The dialogue is often quite sharp and funny.
It's certainly not glitzy like a gangster film.

There's virtually no action until the latter half of the film.
Admittedly, some parts dragged. And, some parts are engrossing and
sentimental. Some parts take you by surprise. The film's focus on both
the mundane and the surprising moments is perhaps used to its benefit,
but can sometimes feel a little uneven in terms of pacing. When the
unexpected, violent moments hit, it reminded me that yes, this is
indeed a "gangster" film. This results in some great dark humor.
Advertisement

The characters truly make this film. The dynamics between Bill, Karl,
and Maggie are realistic, funny, dysfunctional, and sad. Bob Hill is
particularly memorable as Bill, an aging father who is frequently
disappointed and putting down his son, Karl. Robin Hill expertly plays
off his real-life father Bob (who plays Bill) as the
constantly-frustrated Karl. Julie Deakin gives a complex, multifaceted
performance as Maggie, the loving, sometimes scheming, mother, who may
not always be as kind as she appears. The supporting cast, which
consist of thugs who often do not act like thugs, bring proper amount
of quirky, dry humor.

Given the expectations one may have of the frequently popular gangster
genre, fans of that genre will likely be let down by this film while
missing out on this film's more subtler, deeper story about family
relationships. The initial pacing of the film may try some people's
patience. It did me a little. I wished the film hadn't really
characterized itself as a story about a crime family or a "gangster
film" because it really isn't. I think it perhaps hurts the film
somewhatit makes it seem less real, maybe more gimmicky. This is
closer to a family dramawith occasional violence thrown in. One may
mistakingly go in expecting The Godfather. I can see this film
re-imagined as a small crime story starring ordinary peoplesomething
akin to a Coen Brothers' film. These characters are odd, quirky, and
dark in that vein.

I enjoyed the humor and the little surprises in this film despite the
fact that the plot didn't always keep my interest. Some parts are quite
banal and I sometimes wondered where the film was going. The film picks
up considerably on the second half and the film's theme seems to follow
the old adage that "what goes around comes around." By the end, though,
it was ultimately the memorable characters that remained with me long
afterwards.

You can find more of my movie review updates on
http://twitter.com/d_art
<|_=00=_|>
This low budget British crime drama is as entertaining as it is
inspirational for film makers everywhere. Played by a real life father
and son in the main character roles, the story revolves around the two
men (shot mainly in their real life family home) as they are released
from prison and set out to determine who is the police informant in
their circle. It makes excellent use of a simple acoustic soundtrack,
also helped by the fact that the father likes to play guitar as well
and is an old hippy, who has, over the years morphed into a gangster
and so is different from your usual cockney style villain. This being
shot in Brighton also shows a different side to the city which is
usually perceived as simply a holiday destination. The plot while being
slightly ambitious is played out by the actors very convincingly and
holds your attention throughout. I would encourage anyone to see this
movie, apart from maybe Michael Bay!
<|_=00=_|>
Writer/director Ben Wheatley's debut feature film Down Terrace is
British drama that fuses together the kitchen sink social realism of
Shane Meadows, Ken Loach and 'The Royle Family' to make compelling yet
highly uncomfortable viewing. Wheatley, who demonstrates flair for
creating small moments of humour around intense menace really sets his
marker down with this unsettling look into the world of a crime family
in steep decline. Thanks to being mostly confined to the small rooms of
your average two-up-two-down terraced house, the film has a sense of
real claustrophobia which is accentuated all the more by the intensity
of the drama. It's one of those films where even as people sit down to
a family meal, you can sense the brewing violence in the air. The
tight, confined spaces only serve to heighten the feeling of being
trapped in these small rooms with psychotic characters. All the
performances register strongly, the picks being Robert Hill (Bill) and
Julia Deakin (Maggie), the mother and father of the house, or Godfather
and Godmother. To begin with, Maggie has the demeanour of the loving,
but downtrodden Mum who runs to the kitchen when the boys start
arguing, but as things unfold her character develops and the
performance is chillingly well measured. Anyone familiar with
Wheatley's follow up film 'Kill List' will cheer when the likable
Michael Smiley turns up in a similar small role. So, Down Terrace sets
a strong precedent for a debut director with its realism, horror and
blacker than black comedy
<|_=00=_|>
The shocker wasn't the predictable ending but IMDb's page.
"Comedy/Crime" it says. What comedy? There wasn't an iota of a funny
moment in this. The movie was interesting throughout  barring the slow
and muddled 10-15-minutes intro  but if this was intended as a comedy
then it failed miserably. As a crime drama it's an 8/10, as a comedy it
is a round zero.

I enjoyed the various plot-twists, but who didn't realize that Karl's
mental instability would lead to murder within the family? The movie's
other problem is its lack of realism. A family this distrustful would
have annihilated each other years ago, because we have to assume that
Karl didn't become a manic-depressive trigger/hammer-happy psychopath
overnight. The ease with which Maggie kills her own brother doesn't
ring true either, even though it was a fun plot-twist. The ease with
which Karl's PREGNANT girlfriend butchers Maggie rings even less true.
Having one brutal female killer in a movie is acceptable, but having
two is just stretching the credibility somewhat.

Just because all these people are involved with the mob cannot make ALL
of them criminally insane, not to this extent anyway. They kill each
other off far too easily  within a very small time-frame - while
displaying a lack of discipline and self-control that makes me wonder
how the hell these people ever even got into organized crime
(organized, meaning you don't just go and kill anybody you want
off-hand) and how they managed to last longer than an hour. Key word:
"organized". If the British mob were this anarchic, it wouldn't exist;
it's that simple. Fact is, it's not just the family that is kill-happy,
but everyone else also. I was half-expecting a milkman to appear out of
nowhere and to start swinging knives and axes around.

Again, I refuse to forgive the film on account of it being allegedly a
comedy  because it clearly isn't one. (God help DT's writers if they
thought they were writing one!) I suppose a lot of the interesting
twists came at the expense of logic and credibility, both of these
being sacrificed in order to advance the story's interest potential.
Even if it were a comedy, it's not a comedy in the ZAZ or even Guy
Ritchie vein, hence a certain degree of realism has to be expected.

A word of advice to the director and writers: the only way a black
comedy can work  i.e. be funny as opposed to just interesting  is to
turn it into a stylized, large-than-life venture, not a kitchen-sink
ordeal. The kitchen-sink approach works only for drama, never for a
comedy within a serious context i.e. a serious subject matter. You
can't make a bunch of bonafide psychopaths funny and amusing if you
film them with a wobbly camcorder, getting the viewer too close to the
reality of their dark existence, warts, kitchen-sinks and all. Plus,
you need actors with comedic abilities, and those aren't easy to come
by.

"British Sopranos" my butt. Watch this as a psychological crime drama
and you will get something out of it. Watch it as a comedy and you will
be extremely disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was billed as a comedy but I found it so darkly comic that I
could almost take it as a straight-up drama. All the performances were
excellent with both Robert and Robin Hill putting in stellar turns. A
cross between a kitchen sink drama and a fly-on-the-wall documentary, I
found the filming style made for a compelling watch. Unfortunately
there were a couple of niggles. They are supposed to be drug dealers
but we see no drug dealing going on. Also, the police were very
conspicuous by their absence; not one policeman seen all the way
through. You'd have thought the police would definitely be watching
someone with their track record. Other than that I found it an
interesting and compelling watch. Just a word for the squeamish though,
Ben Wheatley does not hold back on the violence. There are a couple of
quite graphic scenes in there that might have you wincing.

SteelMonster's verdict: RECOMMENDED

My score: 7.1/10.

You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog: Thoughts of
a SteelMonster.
<|_=00=_|>
I read the reviews here and being a great fan of British gangster
films, I was looking forward to watching this.I found it a colossal
disappointment. It is NOT entertaining,suspenseful,edifying,moving or
in any way interesting.It IS crass,vulgar,boring and repulsive. We see
a social class E family living in a rundown Council house pretending
that they are in some way serious gangsters with sinister underworld
connections. If they derive an income from organised crime,why are they
living in a slum? They are generally fat,ugly,unemployable and
unappealing people acting like rejects from an Eastenders episode.They
try to give the the impression of being physically tough but any US
marine,British commando or 2 REP guy could walk through the lot of them
in 60 seconds.I have met families like these.They don't work because no
one would employ them. They live on the outskirts of society in a
miasma of drugs,alcohol,schoolboy violence and general depravity. The
only thing that seems to set this lot apart is a deeply morbid
pathology.Quite what the director and actors were trying to show us
defeats me completely. I'm all for ¨real¨drama but this was like
watching psychopathic chimpanzees in a zoo. And no,I didn't like it.
<|_=00=_|>
I rate this above average for story originality, acting and a degree of
realism. The camera work, however, has some bad moments. I don't
consider this a comedy, not really, but I do think that the actors at
times had a hard time playing this straight. It's true though that
one's reaction to what one sees is likely to be a kind of smile because
it is so far from normality. Everything is turned upside down in the
family. What they take as normal might be killing someone. On the other
hand, they are not shown as monsters. In many ways on the surface, they
act like any family.

The style of story-telling is not to present any unneeded explanation
or exposition, but to let the viewer figure out what's going on as time
passes, day by day. This works. It's not too hard to see what's
occurring.

The story is about a crime family, father, mother and son, and their
associates. The father and son have managed to come out of jail. They
think someone ratted on them, but they do not know who. They confer
with their associates and begin a series of killings.

The basic factor is that all trust has evaporated. They have been told
that the police has a complete picture of the whole organization.

The father, mother and son provide their own interwoven plot. All are
criminals and the family is very dysfunctional. The father is
domineering and suspicious. The mother is cold blooded. The son takes
medication and has a temper. His father and mother won't let him lead
his own life, marry or become a father.

The resulting picture or brew is a curiosity. It's one of a kind. I am
reminded a bit of "The Honeymoon Killers" with Shirley Stoller and Tony
Lo Bianco. That too combined surface normality with very abnormal
behavior. That lacked humor, however. In this movie, the characters
joke around more in their conversations.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the reason I watch British films. Its not for the pomp and
circumstance and hither thee will and stuff. It's because the dialogue
and characters are as rich as a velvet cake. From the opening scene I
was engaged and entertained. Half the dialog in this movie doesn't push
the story along just flushes out the character's more. The main
characters just got out of jail and are desperately trying to figure
out who turned them in. And by "desperately" I mean complaining about
the quality of the welcome home cake. For being gangster they really
never do anything gangsterish. No deals, no dealing with the police, no
rival gangsters. Some brief repartee, some tit for tat then the next
thing you know, ..They just start killing everybody for every reason,
none that have to do with the upcoming court case and snitching.
<|_=00=_|>
Down Terrace tries to grip you by pulling at the strings of your most
visceral instincts, but i'm afraid this is not a good thing.

Two chumps ...erm, two hardened gangsters who apparently don't have a
penny to their name, go back home after being released from prison.
Suspicious of everyone, they start killing each other in large numbers.
Then some more side characters from secondary plot lines also kill each
other.

Aaaand that's about it. 

The film in itself is not bad, but i'm not sure who the audience is
supposed to be; none of the characters are memorable, or even
appealing, in any way. It tries to show "realism" and while it
partially succeeds (there are in fact such lowlifes in Britain), it not
only overdoes the killing with multiple murders which would certainly
bring down the popo in a rush, but the most "dramatic" point is that
we're supposed to feel for these people.

I simply don't like films whose plot revolves around characters who are
irredeemable, but you might feel differently. I see no reason why this
story should be told, they are garbage people doing what garbage people
do, there is no moral, no socio-historic significance (such as Beast Of
No Nation might have), no comedy whatsoever (despite what IMDb says),
no action. This is not The Godfather, or even The Sopranos. 

If you want to watch ignorant, miserable people being ignorant and
miserable, this film is for you; for everyone else, 

5/10 - no redeeming qualities.
