
"If it's Halloween, then it must be Saw" We've heard this tag line
repeated over the years, and it's no surprise another Saw film has
popped up into cinemas. There is, however, a catch to this installment:
it's the final chapter. As a loyal fan of the series, I was excited
last year with Saw VI and saw it as the perfect opportunity to end the
series. Sure there were a few unanswered questions, but I didn't think
it was worth another film to get the answers. Obviously, the producers
disagreed with me and not only went for a seventh installment, but also
gave into the latest 3D phenomena to cash in some bucks.

Financially, the producers put themselves in a nice position. There
were tons of movie-goers paying to see Saw 3D. As far as credibility
goes, the producers threw it out the window. Saw 3D is, without a
doubt, the worst installment in the series. It's badreally badand I
can't stress that enough. Not only does the film deliver a ridiculous
plot, but it also fails visually, leaving movie goers with empty
wallets and a short-coming 3D experience.

Saw VIIexcuse me, I mean Saw 3Dtells the story of Bobby Dagen, a
Jigsaw survivor who makes profit from his grisly experience by writing
books and televising interviews on television. He also acts as a
counselor to surviving Jigsaw victims, guiding them towards
psychological recovery. Life seems good for Bobby, until he is thrust
into a horrific game where the goal is to save his wife before the
timer hits zero. Meanwhile, Detective Hoffman hunts down Jill Tuck,
seeking revenge over the events of the last film.

There's a lot going on in Saw 3D, and you honestly never get bored with
it. There are eleven traps (the highest in franchise history) and the
Hoffman and Jill story line is presented on the side. The problem,
however, is that we've seen this all before. We've seen someone go
through a series of tests against a timer, we've seen gruesome traps,
and we've seen the now predictable twists. Not only is the material in
the film recycled, it's poorly made. The plot is ludicrous, the acting
is horrible, the traps lack creativity, and the 3D looks cheap and
isn't utilized at all (pretty disappointing considering it was shot
with 3D cameras).

Tobin Bell, whose character died in Saw III, is in the film for an
estimated five minutes, possibly even less. Carey Elwes, who played the
infamous Dr. Gordon in the original Saw is back this time around, but
also has very limited screen time. It's a shame that a majority of the
main characters are pushed to the side for Bobby Dagen's game, which in
essence, turns out to be a waste of time. The traps are boring, the
shock value has completely disappeared, and you ultimately don't feel
for any of the characters in the film. All of these cons, along with
the cheap 3D, make for a horrible film that shouldn't even bear the Saw
title.

It's even difficult putting the blame on some of the film makers.
Director Kevin Greutert was forced to return since Lionsgate had a
clause in his contract for another film. He was set to direct
Paranormal Activity 2, but was pulled in to Toronto a week before the
filming of Saw 3D. He attempted vigorous re-writing of the script, but
it proved to be difficult since a majority of the sets were already
built. Greutert tries his best to salvage the film, but it ultimately
falls into pieces due to the production and incoherent story line.
Producer Mark Burg and writers Patrick Melton and Marcus Dunstan should
be ashamed for giving into 3D and crazy fan theories online.

Overall, the only positive thing about Saw 3D is that the franchise is
finally over. It's run its course, and while I expected the film to be
poor, I didn't expect it to come to this. After following the franchise
for six long years, I honestly feel betrayed and cheated after the
final twist. The Saw franchise started with an interesting concept and
ran with it, but it fell flat on its face at the finish line.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a huge letdown , publicity made me believe that this
will be final piece of the puzzle which will connect all the previous
movies, so i was at least expecting something more intelligent and a
shocker twist of an ending, what we got instead seemed to be a rushed
attempt to close all loopholes from the previous chapters.

I followed this SAGA not just because of the gore but also the story
which i thought would end in a very epic scale ,this final chapter just
offered more gore and took the simplest and easiest way out of the
story, It felt like wasting a 7 year long wait for a good ending and
instead we get a mediocre and Pointless one.
<|_=00=_|>
OK this movie was extremely disappointing. From the plot, do the
characters, to the acting to the three 3D, it was one poorly written
premise after the next.

The first thing that was stupid...The opening trap...This one left me
feeling the writers purposely set out to make it stupid and
unbelievable. The scene opens with hundreds of people walking by the
window with three people tied up (you only see two of them until the
trap begins). The reason jigsaw puts them in the trap was just plain
stupid (two guys manipulated by one girl), and must have taken 5
seconds to come up with...Also, does anyone honestly think in such a
public place, no one would notice two people tied to construction
equipment??? And then, the only attempt from the crowd to save them was
one small women trying to bang the glass with a briefcase, obviously
the glass wasn't going to break and so that was it, no more
attempts...Really?? And not only that, but everyone was watching like
it was some movie, taking pictures with their camera phone...I was
literally laughing in the theater at how stupid it was...In the end,
the only person who died was the girl, who frankly, out of the three,
deserved it most, and you didn't care at all...

Second thing that was stupid and totally not believable....Bobby's
character or the main character...(Bobby was a guy who lied about
surviving a jigsaw trap, so he could sell books and lead a publicized
support group of real jigsaw survivors) This again made me feel like
the writers just gave up and used the first idea that came to
mind...Why was it not believable? Because if someone had gone through a
jigsaw trap, there would have been a police report a thorough
investigation, all sorts of documentation about what happened, where it
happened, people involved, hospital reports about his injuries...So how
he can write an entire book, get it published, do book signings, go on
TV, lead a support group; without having any proof other than fake
scars is BEYOND ME...

Not only that, but the decision to make Bobby's trap about going
through a house and trying to help out his colleagues is completely
unoriginal...(SPOILER) After everything unfolded and everyone died, I
was left feeling that writers didn't want to make anyone live because
then they would have had to think harder about the plot...Besides the
characters in the traps are so thin and meaningless to the other
characters, you really don't care at all when they die because they
contribute nothing to the story line anyway...

Third thing that was stupid...Hoffman's character....His motive the
entire movie was revenge on Jill tuck for putting him a
trap...(Spoiler) His character for the entire movie was nothing more
than a thug...He just walked around stabbing people in the neck until
he got to Jill...I mean how freaking stupid is that? Again, I was left
feeling the writers had no desire to put anymore thought into the movie
and said "Screw it, I'm done thinking about this movie...Let's just
make him stab people in the neck and be done with it.."

Fourth thing that was stupid...Gibson's character...In the past,
Hoffman saved this cop's life (told to the audience via flashback) but
then brutally killed Gibson's attacker, Gibson reported him for
excessive brutality and Hoffman held a grudge ever since...STUPID
premise!! (Spoiler) The goose chase Hoffman puts them on was retarded
and required no thought...He led them to a room and they all got shot
by a sub machine gun.

Fifth that was stupid...The ending and Doctor Gordon's
character....(Total Spoiler) It was always rumored before Saw 7 came
out that Doctor Gordon was still alive helping out jigsaw...So I was
really excited to see how it would pan out...Man, what a
disappointment...You see him once in the survivor support group for
about 30 seconds and then doesn't show up until the last two or three
minutes of the movie, where he attacks Hoffman....The writers decided
that a thirty second flash back was all that was necessary to explain
his involvement with Jigsaw, after that, he puts Hoffman in the room
from the first movie (where Dr. Gordon originally hacked off his own
leg) and shuts the door...You don't see him die! And the movie ends...

(Spoiler) But wait, what happened to Bobby? Nothing, he goes through
each trap, trying to save the lives of his colleagues, but fails them
all...He finally gets to his wife in the last trap, fails at saving
her, she is burned alive and the last time you see him on the screen is
crying in front of the furnace that is burning his wife. Out of any
character in the movie, I really wanted her to live because she did
absolutely nothing wrong...

So again, this movie was such a waste of time...The plot on ALL LEVELS
felt rushed and meaningless, completely unoriginal and POORLY
written....Perhaps I held it to a higher standard because the first one
was BRILLIANT!!! and the others good, but it's really nothing more than
a mindless slasher movie...In fact, the only thing I can say good about
the movie is the traps are pretty cool...There are a lot of them, and
they're creative...

All that being said, I am glad I saw it... because at least now, I have
NO DESIRE TO SEE ANOTHER SAW MOVIE...If they come out with Saw vs
Freddy or Jason; I'm leaving the country.
<|_=00=_|>
If I could give this a rating of 0, I easily would. This was without a
doubt the worst Saw film I have ever seen.

I've been a fan of the Saw films since the start and while i think they
should have ended it at the first, I've still managed to catch each
one, each year, to see what kind of new ideas they have brought to the
franchise.

Unfortunately the ideas brought to this one were terrible.

The trap in the opening scene was just ridiculous, a girl should die
since she was been two-timing her boyfriend with some other guy. So
they have a choice, the guys can kill each other or kill the girl.
These are the kind of ideas that just require no thought or imagination
whatsoever.

Then, we are introduced to Bobby who was a survivor of a trap, yet we
soon uncover that he was actually not in one of Jigsaws traps at all.
He was merely trying to cash in on fame, by proclaiming he was one.
Since the audience is introduced to this before Bobby must endure his
test, we really don't feel anything for his character. As I was
watching, I thought, I hope he fails and he is killed because it's
awful to lie about that, simply to get yourself rich. But alas, he did
not die! And at the end of it, I don't think he learned anything from
his "game". Come to think of it, we never even see what happens to him.
Instead we are brought to this.....

Dr Gordon has returned! Wow what a surprise! Ugh, no not really. It was
obvious that the producers were going to bring him back when realizing
this would be the last Saw film and that they would want to make it as
huge as possible. Unfortunately, the moment I saw him, I immediately
knew how the movie would end with him being involved. How did I know?
Because most fans wanted that. It seems that the writers didn't have
any ideas so they thought they would browse the forums, jot down the
whole "Gordon being involved theory" and end the film that way. While I
have no issue with giving the fans what they want, that only appeals to
some movies. It just didn't work for this movie. I don't like watching
a movie and knowing how it will end. The whole point of Saw was to
catch you by surprise with its ending but i was not surprised in the
slightest bit. If anything, it just left it open for a future sequel.

The acting in this film was also atrocious. The actor who played Gibson
was awful, I laughed as he tried to pass himself off as serious. The
other's were pretty much as average as always. Tobin Bell in my opinion
is always the best actor in the Saw franchise. Was a shame we only saw
him in 2 scenes though.

Also as usual with these sequels, each one tries to outdo the last with
it's level of blood and gore. This one was no exception. Except, this
time, we have the opportunity to witness it in 3D. The 3D was pretty
poor to be honest, was way too gimmicky and just involved chunks of
bone and flesh fly at you. One thing that really bothered me was just
how over-the-top the violence was. Particularly when Bobby is removing
his teeth and blood is literally gushing out of his mouth like a
waterfall. While most Saw films to this point have been over-the-top,
this was just plain stupid.

So to conclude, I did not enjoy this film at all and felt very
disappointed once the credits rolled. For the final film, I expected it
to be a huge surprise that would end the franchise on a high note. But
it turned out to just be a lazily made film with a horrid ending.
Hopefully this truly is the last Saw film because I will definitely not
be going to see another after what they did to this one.
<|_=00=_|>
In keeping with the annual Halloween tradition, producers decided to
bring audiences this allegedly final installment of the unsettling
series, and apparently wanted to go out in style with what has fast
become an overused technique in three-dimensional effects. The 'story'
centers around a self-help author who purportedly survived the deceased
Jigsaw's deadly game, and now tries to preach a message of strength to
those around him. His newfound strength is put to the test however when
he becomes the target of a new game, one which will also determine the
fate of those close to him. Meanwhile, the cold-blooded Detective
Hoffman tries to settle a score while evading the dogged pursuit of his
fellow officers. After so many films, so many traps, so much relentless
violence and gore, it would be pointless to complain about the film's
content, but beyond a few startling 3-D moments, and despite a
relatively short running time, the whole thing feels like a prolonged,
protracted, and downright boring exercise in this tired genre. Tries to
wrap things up nice and neatly in the end, yet still can't hide the
fact that this series has long run out of steam, or that this project
is clearly uninspired. *½
<|_=00=_|>
What can one attribute to another entry into the "Saw" franchise?
Number 7 comes right on the heels of the 3D craze and purports to be
its final chapter. So Jigsaw (Tobin Bell) is still dead and but his
legacy still goes on in flashbacks. And in a protégé, Hoffman (Costas
Mandylor). And in his widow, Jill (Betsy Russell). The entire soap
opera of Jigsaw's family and professional life carries a narrative that
attempts to reconcile the final film with the beginning of the
franchise, and it definitely does seem to have recapitulated rather
well for both hardcore fans as well as fairweather ones. But it has to
be said that the films have been on a downward spiral since its
fantastic first installment. It delivers the gore in more elaborate
ways than the past few films have -- considering how quickly they were
rushed out -- but loses that sense of cleverness and more importantly,
that sense of menace that the franchise has always attempted to retain.

After the previous six films, the franchise does not so much look
through the eye of the victims anymore as it does its villains who have
an entire mythology unto themselves. And "Saw 3D" almost solely focuses
on Hoffman, who it really has to be said, is a sad substitute for
Jigsaw. He carries on his messiah's waning moralistic philosophy by
continuing to find victims in need of a baptism by blood but finds
himself hindered by Jill who is now cooperating with the police and
giving them everything she knows to spite her husband's latest protégé.
Add to this one Bobby Dagen (an actually funny Sean Patrick Flanery),
who has written a best-selling book and sold DVDs about being a Jigsaw
survivor and profiting from Hoffman's hallowed gift of life. Suffice to
say, he (and his wife) quickly becomes the main plaything of this
film's grand guignol torture play with 60 minutes set on the clock.

Now, even with the requisite twists and better-than-expected
inventiveness of its traps, "Saw 3D" does not deliver in the least with
its titular promise -- it's 3D sets yet another low standard for the
technology. If the onus on watching this film is to attempt a different
perspective, then it never quite reaches the mark. But who are we
really kidding here? It's just one more excuse to milk this cash cow.
The franchise has truly run its course. If you watched and enjoyed all
seven of its films, at least you can be proud of that. Right? Anyone?

- www.moviexclusive.com
<|_=00=_|>
For this review I am going to provide a guide as to how you can ensure
that a franchise will never continue. But first the plot if you can
call it a plot.

Detective Hoffman is still alive. Jill's attempt to kill him backfired
when he found a way out of his supposedly inescapable trap. Whilst
Hoffman is out to kill Jill he has to contend with setting up another
set of traps for the lying Bobby Dagen and his friends. If Bobby is to
make it to the end and save his wife, he will have to push himself to
the limit.

Step 1: The plot. Ensure your plot is convoluted and does not make
sense in the slightest. If you are worried that it does, then provide
meaningless flashbacks. If it ain't broke don't fix it. Why change the
format when it worked for Saw IV, V and VI. Just rinse and repeat.

Step 2: The main character. Who wants motivation, plausibility and
character development? The answer nobody! Ensure your character is as
bland as humanely possible. The make him unlikable, arrogant and
self-absorbed. If he possesses any humanity wipe it out immediately!

Step 3: Jigsaw. The main villain is not Jigsaw anymore. To let your
audience know this, have Tobin Bell dress as a gangster for one scene
so that he can embarrass himself. Then watch the less interesting
Hoffman blunder from scene to scene.

Step 4: The script. Make sure your script consists of lines that would
make Sylvester Stallone worried. Fill it with profanity and the screams
of human beings. When you have ninety pages of Horror clichés, you are
almost ready to begin.

Step 5: The Acting. Ensure your actors are human and made of meat and
bone; if they can scream louder than a toddler hire them forthwith.

Step 6: The camera work. The reason these films make so much money is
because of their budget. You spent it on the traps, so borrow the
cheapest hand held camera you can find and film all scenes in one take.

Step 7: The length. Make your film as short as possible, but feel ten
times the length. Your audience will wonder how it lasted so long.

Step 8: The traps. Have as many traps as you want; the more the better.
Who will notice pink blood? A lack of invention and tension?
Nitpickers, that's who. If your audience is not sick within the first
five minutes then you have failed them as a Director.

Step 9: Closure. Do not allow for closure. Provide questions with no
answers. This will mean that if a sequel is green light then you can
slowly divulge the answers in Saw M.

Step 10: The Obligatory Twist Ending. If the climax does not leave you
scratching your head then change it again. Have characters you thought
dead return, just so that you can destroy the brains of the audience.

If you follow all of these steps, you can guarantee the death of a
franchise. Or for a few years at least until, it is re-made, re-
envisioned, re-booted or all of the above.
<|_=00=_|>
I think you need to look at the Saw movies like this: they are Friday
the 13th movies with more innovation and creativity, not to mention
much more sick gore. Obviously, if you didn't like any Friday the 13th,
Halloween, or Nightmare on Elm Street movie, you should stop reading
now, because your mind has been made up. You will hate this movie.

In fact, to be perfectly fair, even people who liked the earlier Saw
movies will find plenty to carp about here. Saw 3D purports to be the
end of the series (oh sure, but we did have several movies after Friday
the 13th VII: The Final Chapter), and if it is, it ends on a fairly
conclusive note. Then again, Jigsaw himself died early in the series,
and that didn't stop further movies from being made, so take that for
what it's worth.

I can't review this without some plot points from previous Saw movies,
so if you haven't watched any of them and plan to, stop reading. OK,
still with me? Let's recap.

Mark Hoffman (Costas Mandylor) is the bad guy, having served as
Jigsaw's accomplice (blackmailed into it, really), and he has a new
game afoot. But complicating matters is Jigsaw's widow, Jill Tuck
(Betsy Russell), who knows of Hoffman's involvement. Jill brings
Internal Affairs detective Gibson (Chad Donella) into the mix, so
Hoffman's dual goals of running the new game and getting to Jill Tuck
drive the plot.

The game involves a man named Bobby (Sean Patrick Flanery) who has
profited mightily from having "survived" a Jigsaw trap; he's written a
best-selling book and runs a support group and makes the talk-show
rounds as well. But is Bobby on the up and up? Duh. As with all of
Jigsaw's games, Bobby's games involve atoning for his own sins at the
cost of some self sacrifice.

The traps continue to be inventive, although some  like the face trap
 make welcome returns. I was reminded briefly of an old episode of the
radio serial The Shadow called "The House that Death Built," in which
various traps (like a tripwire that triggered a double-barreled
shotgun) were strewn about the house to keep people from finding
treasure, or something. Bobby must go through several of these, much as
victims had in earlier movies. And of course, by doing so he loses his
pound or so of flesh, and secrets are revealed. Oh, and Carey Elwes,
who played Dr. Gordon in the very first Saw movie, makes a return here
 not giving away anything there, of course. He shows up to mock Bobby
for having a support group in the first place (something about
profiting off misery).

Even though it's pretty important to have watched at least some of the
earlier films, Saw 3D does its best to keep you in the loop, reminding
us of certain characters and plots of previous films. For example, the
support group includes bona fide survivors, such as one who needed to
cut off her own arm to save herself.

But for me, the best part comes at the very end, when All Is Revealed.
As the movie's denouement approaches and the bodies pile up, you begin
to wonder if Hoffman will emerge victorious  or if he's even the only
bad guy out there. The ending answers both questions to some degree of
satisfaction and helps to fill in missing information from the previous
six movies as well. So on the one hand, the movie ends the series in a
satisfying manner, and that's good.

On the other hand, the door is left ever so slightly open for more and
more Saw films. It's not impossible to believe. In fact, it's more
plausible than the Friday the 13th "endings," because no matter how
many times and in how many ways Jason was killed, he somehow came back
to slaughter more virgins in the next movie. At least the Saw movies
follow some sort of logic.

For me, Saw 3D's 3D effects were well played indeed  if you don't mind
intestines flying at you, you'll appreciate them. Not so much if you
don't. The plot is less convoluted and intricate than some of the most
recent installments, and the movie doesn't waste time on character
development. Heck, you hardly even see the now-long-dead Jigsaw. The
movie flat-out worked for me from a visual and visceral standpoint.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a Saw fan. I want to make this statement clear before I make the
following rant about Saw 3D.

What started off 7 years ago by Whannel and Wan has been ruined by the
new writers. The world of Jigsaw has been diluted by the new writers to
a very poor slasher film of utter nonsense.

If the writer's ideas run thin they just make another victim an
accomplice. Shame on you Melton and Dunton - lazy writing. No film
after Saw 3 makes sense to the series, although Saw 6 is watch-able as
a standalone film.

Despite my average feelings for 4 and my detest of 5, there is such a
wealth of characters and back story that could have been used to make
the final Saw epic. Instead we have been introduced to more new
characters and over elaborate traps. (Really who is building these
things and how much money and time do they have? More secret hide outs
etc). One of the traps is a pop up machine gun! For Christ sake what
were the writers thinking! The script is so bad that characters are
even dreaming about traps. I am embarrassed for you Melton and Dunston.

The original Saw was simplistic in it's brilliance, but had the gore of
a horror movie and the tension of a thriller. This is what made it
great. Even Saw 2 (which is not my favourite) and Saw 3 (possibly my
favourite)continued this tradition with clever but simple traps and
involving stories that were character driven.

Fans cared about what happened to the victims, we cared for the anti-
hero Jigsaw and we sympathised with the accomplice Amanda - whilst
being disgusted and questioning our own morals. Unfortunately since Saw
4 we no longer care about any of the new characters or the plot. We
just have a body count as the writers think this is what horror film
are about. Saw was more than this. And now given the chance to put some
closure to the series you misused the chance to correct your earlier
work and made it even worse by wasting the screen time of Tobin and
Cary.

I wish I stopped viewing at Saw 3 as the remainder of the series has
cashed in on what would have been an excellent trilogy.
<|_=00=_|>
Since the surprise hit "Saw" in 2004, there's been a sequel each year.
I'm a huge fan of horror movies, and I absolutely love the "Saw"
Franchise. Each sequel was a worthy addition to the original story. I
thought Part III and VI were the best sequels. Since the sixth one was
amazing, it's hard to beat that one with the final seventh installment.
This time, it is in 3D. Just to cash in on the 3D hype, because let's
face it; it's pointless and adds nothing to the movie. 

You won't get bored with the story; the pace is on an all time high
with a maximum of traps and gory deaths. There are some thrilling and
exciting traps, but some have a very "seen it all before" feeling.
Well, it's already part 7 and quite frankly, there's no need for
another one after this. The story is not as surprising as the other
ones; the ending does not have the ultimate 'wooow' factor and the
actions of some characters are not completely rational (I'm not giving
away the ending here..) 

Very limited screen time for Tobin Bell (Jigsaw\John Kramer) and Saw 3D
sees the long awaited return of Dr. Lawrence Gordon from the original
Saw: could have been better written. 

In a nutshell: "Saw 7\3D" is an entertaining sequel that unfortunately
can't cope with most of the Saw movies. It just isn't as strong when it
comes to surprising twists and jaw-dropping moments. The story and the
interesting characters gave the "Saw" movies the success and status,
not just gory deaths. And that is a little forgotten in this final
installment. I love them all, but there's no need for Part VIII.
