
This historical chapter plays close to home as my great-grandfather was
morally involved and supported the resistance. He was a founder and
active participant of the Knights of Columbus in Mexico City. This
society played an active financial role in the rebellion. Our family
business was also affected by this persecution in Mexico, as he could
not sell his most important products, which at the time were altar
candles for the churches. In the early years of this escalating
situation, my great grandfather, a deeply religious man and friend of
the church, hid at his candle factory, church artwork and religious
valuables to keep them from being plundered and destroyed by government
officials.

On more than one occasion, based on anonymous tips, government troops
personally led by General Plutarco Elías Calles, raided both my
great-grandfathers business and his home, looking for firearms and the
illegal church valuables that he was hiding. Unable to find anything,
the General made my great-grandfather kneel to the ground and shoved
his pistol into the back of my great-grandfathers head. Why he never
pulled the trigger or why they were never able to find anything either
at the candle factory or at his home, was all God's work. At my
great-grandfather's home, there were firearms in plain sight standing
behind the open doors to the inner rooms supplied to him by the US
Embassy in Mexico City.

This world is really-really small as fate would have it be, my
brother-in-law married the great-granddaughter of General Plutarco
Elías Calles Although my father knows about this, I never mentioned
anything to my grandfather about the subject Thank God nothing more
serious ever happened there are absolutely no ill-feelings between us,
and it sure makes a heck-of-a-good family story for generations to
come! 

I hope you have an opportunity to see the movie, it is an important
chapter of Mexican history which has been institutionally hidden for
almost 100 years now.
<|_=00=_|>
An under the radar film about a subject I knew nothing about that
absolutely floored me. It's a high quality film with flat out superb
performances that makes you contemplate and appreciate faith and
freedom like few films have ever managed to convey. Yes, it is a faith
based film. If that offends some, then this isn't the movie or the
subject for you. Unlike other faith based efforts, this effort is not
cheesy or ham-fisted or even preachy.

It's the tale of the Cristeros War (1926-1929); a war by the people of
Mexico against the Mexican government who cracked down in brutal ways
against the Catholic Church and against religious freedom in general.
Andy Garcia is Oscar level good here as General Gorostieta, a man with
limited faith who responds and masterfully leads the fight for freedom.
It's intense and, at times, surprisingly violent and impactful. This
movie delivers real emotion and doesn't dodge tough questions about
faith. It delivers an exceptional balance of showing why people behave
and choose to engage in certain behaviors even when such behavior is
contrary to the core of their belief system.

One thing is certain; no one who has faith will take it or their
religious freedom for granted after watching and EXPERIENCING this
film. That's how it registered with me at any rate.
<|_=00=_|>
This film which I have now seen twice is a technically beautiful film
which tells the story of the Cristeros War in Mexico. Based on true
events, the movie tells the story of an atheist General who leads
Catholic fighters against the socialist atheist revolutionary
government of Mexico. It also tells the story of a 10 year old boy who
leaves his home to fight for the faith and a Catholic priest who must
come to terms with his faith and with his desire for revenge.

The film is shot on location in Mexico and is really cinematically
beautiful. There are some disturbing scenes which show the brutality of
the Mexican government as well as amazingly uplifting and moving scenes
depicting the faith of those fighting.

This is certainly a film which certain people don't want seen. All the
more reason to go and see it. This film is doesn't sugar coat the
actions of either side but shows war for what it is -- always brutal
and many times necessary.

Andy Garci give a great performance but it is the boy who plays Jose
who steals the show. An amazing performance that is worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
A film with heart. It tells the story of the "Cristiada Wars" from the
perspective of those fighting for religious freedoms taken away by
President Calles, an atheist, who wanted to eradicate what he felt were
the corrupting influences of Catholicism in his country. The film
depicts what happens when a government oversteps its bounds and
tramples on people's way of life, and certainly Catholicism in Mexico
had already become culturally entrenched. The film is beautifully made
with virtuosic cinematography, an outstanding musical score, and with
many wonderful performances. Andy Garcia carries weight as General
Gorostieta, and I particularly enjoyed Oscar Isaac as the cynical "El
Catorce." The film delicately weaves in other contemporaneous
complexities involving the US government and Mexcio without losing
sight of the heart of the story, with a terrifically understated
performance by Bruce Greenwood as the U.S. Ambassador. As someone who
was once Catholic but is no longer practicing, I do not see this as a
religious propaganda film, but as a film depicting a people fighting to
maintain their way of life and refusing to let a government tell them
they can't live what they believe. It is indeed a story from the point
of view of people fighting for their faith, but I do not agree with
critiques that accuse the filmmakers of creating "propaganda." This is
the disadvantage films from the point of view of religious people have
- that some secularists immediately and unfairly will label them
"propaganda." With such a broad application of the term all film making
is to some degree propaganda; after all, there is no drama without
"taking a side." As someone who dislikes religion, I did not feel that
this was a film that aims to proselytize, but rather one that reveals a
period of Mexican history that few people know about within the context
of a riveting drama.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is about a time in history that I had not heard of. It is a
chronicle of the Cristeros War (1926-1929), which was touched off by a
rebellion against the Mexican government's attempt to secularize the
country. This is the story about a time when the Mexican Government
tried to to shut down the practice of the Catholic faith in it's
country, and how the Catholics took up arms(literally there are priest
shooting guns) to defend the freedom of religion. There are very
disturbing scenes in which the government troops attack Catholic
churches during Mass and kill priests in the sanctuary. There is also
some disturbing scenes with the torture and killing of some ten-year
old boys. It should probably get a R-Rating for this content. I think
this is an important movie for everyone to see because it shows what
happens when the government tries to shut down the freedom of religion,
and it also shows what is the result of fighting for your beliefs.
There are some eerie parallels to what is happening today. The message
deals seriously with the issues of non-violent vs. violent protesting,
what it means to have faith or not and confession. The movie portrays
the various characters dealing with these issues in a few different
ways.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw For Greater Glory today, and I took away from it an enormous
respect for the Catholic faith of the Mexican people. It was a riveting
story that I knew nothing about. The young actor who played Jose stole
the show, with Father Vega taking a very close second. Definitely worth
the time and money to see this movie. It also helped me understand why
people defend the right of religious freedom so ferociously in our
country when they feel it is being infringed upon by our government. I
loved the musical score, and the cinematography - the costumes, the
sets, all were excellent. I agree with some other reviews that there
were a few things that could have been trimmed in the edit room - I
feel we could have lost all the scenes with the US Ambassador without
missing much. I hope you go see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Official Mexican history has long erased this chapter form it's books.
Now this production brings the truth to a greater audience with a
masterful movie.

The plot is guided by a very acute sense of truth and this movie has
benefited from the help of Jean Meyer, possibly the top authority in
the subject of the "cristiada".

Special kudos must go to Mauricio Kuri (Jose Sanchez del Rio) for an
impressive performance and the undoubtedly excellent Andy Garcia
(Enrique Gorostieta).

Yes, the movie takes some historical liberties, but all the important
facts (and a lot of non-important ones) are very historic.

Moving, attractive, accurate, pleasing to eye and mind, this is a must
see.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first visited Mexico in the late 1960's these events were still
spoken of in hushed tones if spoken of at all. It was counseled as
healthier never to bring them up as the political descendants of those
responsible were still in power and very easily riled. Now they're all
dead and we can go see a movie right here in Mexico about what had been
erased from the history books for almost 90 years. If only for that
reason it's worth seeing, but it has plenty more to offer.

The film is entertaining, the cast mostly up to the task, and the
director brings it all off with a few rough edges, tho' they aren't
enough to get in the way of enjoying the film. Here and there
sufficient historical data is presented (the locations and the sets &
wardrobe are all 1st rate) to give the audience an idea of just where
certain events took place, but in general you'd really have to be up on
your Mexican history to know where all this went on, because the
fighting mostly took place in just 4 states. 

Beefs: The film could be shorter without diluting it's impact. Losing
12-18 minutes or so would make it tighter without sacrificing much
although its length doesn't kill your interest. I say this because
there are scenes that come along, and as you're watching them you just
know they aren't necessary to tell the story. The editing here and
there could use some going over as at times the film seems to jump back
& forth between the adversaries without much finesse. Other comments
I've read about this movie rave about the child actor that has the
youth lead in the story -an important role- though I find he over-acts.
Once I adjusted myself to his mugging it didn't get in the way of the
rest of the story. Frankly his taller young friend was more convincing
in a much smaller role. One other minor beef: Andy Garcia, who I like
in anything, including this, is a bit old to be playing General
Gorostieta, who only lived to just over 40. But these are all
relatively small potatoes. None of them or even all of them together
are reason enough not see the movie. Americans especially just might
gain some sorely lacking respect for the intensity of what it has meant
to be Mexican in the 20th century.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie about heroes who stood up for freedom  in this case,
religious freedom. It's not easy to make a heroic film, but this movie
comes reasonably close. There are a few awkward camera movements, and
some of the younger actors don't always make the most convincing
performances. However, the overall effort is quite moving and
convincing. Considering these events actually happened and these are
historical figures not fictional characters makes the movie that much
more compelling. Some reviewers have argued that the movie is "too
Catholic." Considering these were Catholics fighting, eventually,
fighting violently, for their freedoms, these criticisms reveal more
about the reviewers' prejudices and biases than it does about the film.
This is an important, thought-provoking film about freedom that should
be seen and discussed.
<|_=00=_|>
As a Catholic very concerned about the anti-Catholic direction of our
society, I wanted to see For Greater Glory. But after reading the
reviews on RottenTomatoes, I assumed it would be a good message poorly
presented. I could not have been farther from the truth. This was a
excellent movie - especially for a directorial debut. Even if you are
not Catholic you will find this movie very moving and well done. 

Andy Garcia is excellent - he even shows intense emotions. Mauricio
Kuri had an outstanding rookie performance. Nestor Carbonell's role was
perfect for him. Peter O'Toole was a wonderful surprise if short lived. 

Ignore RottenTomatoes - you will not be disappointed!
