
Very seldom in Hollywood are movies produced that are as emotionally
involving as 'One Day.' It's a beautiful, beautiful love story of two
people, Emma (Anne Hathaway) and Dex (Jim Sturgess). After spending the
night together after graduation, we are taken on a journey into their
lives for one day each year after they met; to see where they are or
where they're not. Based on the book by David Nicholls (who also wrote
the screenplay), 'One Day' transitions from novel to film brilliantly.

First let me say film acting is what I believe makes or breaks a movie
- if the actors are great, the movie is generally great. That's not to
take away from any other element of film at all, but when everything
else is done so well, if the acting were bad, the film would have been
less memorable. But Anne Hathaway and Jim Sturgess are so very
impressive here. They make their characters real and relatable, which
are two key things every actor internally wishes they could do. In
fact, as an on-screen pair, they work extremely well, together they
exude chemistry.

What I found most interesting about the entire experience was that I
cared so much. I became enamoured with their lives. I kept hoping for
the best. I anticipated what would happen to each of them. I sat
forward, sat backward. I laughed and I cried. I've said many times
before, a great movie will effect you emotionally in more ways than
one. You'll be angry, you'll be happy, you'll be sad - the key is that
you emote. This movie presented all of those elements. It was fresh and
witty and everything you hope a movie will be. It's as beautifully made
as it is acted and the locations are exquisite. Far too often,
characters in Hollywood seem contrived and are not genuine. 'One Day'
is honestly one of the most genuine stories ever told - there is no
instant gratification, there is however frustration and that is the
beauty of it all. It explores love and love lost, it explores
friendship and the constraints of time and distance. It explores each
character's journey to happiness and the trials they face along the
way. So many little pieces of the puzzle are filled in between the
years by simple, single lines of dialogue or actions. It's not the
typical script of "everything's all good-obstacle-everything ends well"
- there's a lot more complexity which makes it realistically genuine.

So many little details, like eye-lines, smiles, sighs, cut-off
conversations, etc. were paid attention to. The costuming,
cinematography and score were spot on and all noteworthy. All of it
combined was moving and awe-inspiring. I left the theater crying, but
it didn't stop there, even thinking about the movie and those
characters is deeply affecting. Maybe there are some underlying themes
in the film that I'm identifying with, or maybe, just maybe the actors
were really that great. Whatever it is, this film comes with my highest
recommendation, is rated PG-13 and runs 107 minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
After perusing other reviews for this movie, I believe that many of the
ratings are low, not because viewers disliked the movie, but because
they disliked the element in which the film shines. The film succeeds
in drawing the audience into the friendship between the main
characters, played by Jim Sturgess and Anne Hathaway. Both characters
find happiness and meaning in parts of their lives, while suffering
through other portions without attaining goals they've set for
themselves; i.e., this is real life.

What the poorly-rating reviewers seek is escapism. In my view--however
limited--this film aims to depict two human beings as they learn, grow,
and fall in and out of touch with one another. Thus, don't expect any
fairy tales here and don't punish the rating on this movie because it
isn't a fairy tale! 

A predictable conclusion to this movie would place Sturgess and
Hathaway side by side, married, and living together untouched by the
trials of a realistic relationship. Instead, the director effectively
and with calculation showcases some of life in the scenes and merely
hints at events not shown on the screen. As the film narrates
exclusively through one date each year (hence, the name), partial
narratives are expected. The final third of the film, shunned by a few
reviewers, elevated the creative vision of the story because it
introduces the unpredictable nature of real life into a movie that was
otherwise a run-of-the-mill romance. Again, speaking in terms of the
development between characters, the movie is above average. Speaking in
terms of storyline, the first two-thirds, to a certain degree, lack
what the final third delivers: surprise! 

The juxtaposition of the present with the past near the end of this
film makes the events even more potent than they would have been.
Audience members who do not fall into the "half-wit" category can
follow the story, regardless of what the viewers who read the novel
state in their reviews. Bravo! Lastly, Anne Hathaway is exceedingly
lovely.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see One Day last night, and though I had been looking forward
to it for a while, I was surprised at how good it actually is. 

The film has a very unique atmosphere, as it is much quirkier than your
average romance. Also, without giving away the ending, I can say that
it isn't as predictable as one might think. What I really liked about
it was the complexity of the different human relationships that we are
shown. The relationship between Emma and Dexter is by no means an easy
one, nor is it one-sided. Given how different they are, there is a lot
of conflict between them, although they do love each other. Similarly,
what Dexter and his ex-wife feel for one another is never pure hatred,
but there is a lot of understanding between them. As a consequence, the
story seems like it could be taken from real life. 

Plus, both Hathaway and Sturgess are as convincing as always, which
makes this film absolutely worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
I had watched "One Day" yesterday and was beyond excited because I had
read the novel by David Nicholls, which was fantastic. The movie base's
around 2 people and their twenty years together, shown only through one
day, July 15th. I thought the plot was unique and was a very realistic
romance. Sometimes it takes people a lot to lose to realize what life
is about, and how certain people are truly important to you. The movie
was cute, funny, and quite sad at times. I thought Anne Hathaway did an
okay job on the accent, to me it was odd at first but after a couple
minutes I had gotten used to it. Her acting was great and you can
really see her changing as the years progress. Jim Sturgess was great
and in my opinion really portrayed Dexter the best as possible, with
the arrogance and attitude exactly as I imagined Dexter would have. In
my own opinion the movie was a great watch, was a romance that I had
been dying for ever sense The Notebook. Finally a tear jerking but
smile at the end movie, that really anyone can enjoy, if your looking
for a romance movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I was pleasantly surprised by this film. I thought this was going to be
another chick flick with a guy flirting with a girl but I found it was
an amazing love story that spans 2 decades and gives a glimpse of what
true love could really be. 

Anne H. was great for this because she is a timeless beauty that played
her role through the years wonderfully, and Jim S. did a great job
evolving with his character through immaturity to understanding. The
European setting was beautiful and added to the scenes from the city to
country side building the romance of it all.

I wish I would have seen it sooner :)
<|_=00=_|>
Disclaimer first up- biased review, as I am a sucker for love stories.

I used to think that Hollywood had stopped making emotionally involving
love stories. Thank god they made One Day, then. Based on the best
selling book by British author Dave Nicholls, the movie explores the
intertwined lives of two protagonists of contrasting nature, yet fated
to be together. The premise is novel, with the relationship explored
though a peek into 15th July of each year, spread over 22 years. 

Good stories are brought to life by good acting, and here we have two
superb exponents in lead roles- Jim Sturgess as Dexter and Anna
Hathaway as Emma. Dexter leads the high profile life, a television
anchor with success in all forms chasing him, always. But then his life
is also hollow, his friends shallow, and in the end, a faces
disillusionment and compromise. Emma dwells in obscurity mostly, but
through sheer tenacity and belief achieves a modicum of success as a
writer. They meet when they are 18, decide to remain lifelong friends,
and they do remain so. In the meanwhile meandering through the vagaries
of life, they are inexorably drawn towards each other, dependent on
each other.

Childhood sweethearts, even if long lost, when they do come together,
they do get together without any questions asked- i say this having
witnessed the same on a close friend of mine. And you cant help but
fall in love with Emma and Dexter- their love story is so compelling
and adorable, that you become a part of their story, you care for them,
you laugh with them, and also cry, you want them to do what you would
do, and yes, you desperately want a happy ending for them.

And of course there is Anna Hathaway-suitably rumpled and grunge in the
first half, and elegance and grace personified in the second, when she
flashes her pearly whites, the world seems to be a better place to
live.

Why do people in love get to be in love in the best of locations? One
Day happens in picturesque Edinburgh, colourful London, and stylish
Paris. And the best thing that makes it stand out among all love
stories is that it is not predictable, till the very end. 

People and things change with time, but memories remain the same.-
here's a movie that raises a toast to happy memories, a Must watch for
mushy folks!
<|_=00=_|>
Words cannot describe how wonderful an actress Anne Hathaway is, and in
One Day she is in fine form, if there ever was an actress to go down in
the history books among the greats it would be her. Jim Sturgess is
quite a charming devil swell.

The story that takes place in One Day is at moments the anti love story
and other times a sweeping epic romance, even though this movie has
been adapted from a book it's still a lot more original than other
romantic themed films of late. Lone Scherfig definitely suits this
style of English romance, starting with An Education and now this, it
may sound mean but I just don't think the romantic dramas that come
from the U.S have the same genuine feel that the English films do.

I had read the book and i have to say that this is a very loyal
adaptation, much of the beauty from the book is clear and present here,
particularly the friendship aspect between Dex and Emma, in the book
it's a quirky kind of friendship and it transferred well on the screen
as, I was very pleased that the film makers didn't ruin that with a
cheap silly sexual type of friendship.

I could say a lot about how lovely this movie is but I think I'll let
everyone make up their own mind. A lot of people have a bad opinion of
this movie which I find baffling but I suppose each to their own, I
just got totally wrapped up in this gorgeous romance.

10 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
People keep saying that movie adaptations from novels are usually not
the same. Some are bad, some are okay, but in this case, it was
beautiful. Lots of credit goes to David Nicholls for his excellent
screenplay. Everything was PERFECT. Timeline, storyline and even the
small details was well written. The acting was impeccable too. What
about Anne Hathaway's accent? No problems there. Jim Sturgess plays the
character Dexter perfectly. Most people would say that The Notebook is
the top romantic teary eyed film. I tell them this: One Day is way
better. It shows that two people can have friendship, loyalty,
affection and love continuously. Watch it. Whether you have read the
book or not, you will fall in love with Dexter & Emma !
<|_=00=_|>
"One Day", based on the novel of the same name, is the relationship of
two people, Emma (Anne Hathaway) and Dexter (Jim Sturgess), as we see
it on July 15th of each year. As can be expected from the nature of the
story, it's a little dry, lacking in comedy. But then again, it's a
romantic drama, not a romantic comedy.

As is the nature of the two media, movies can never be exactly the same
as the novel. But the problem with this one is that they tried to; no
story lines were removed. Almost everything was there, just shortened
into mostly meaningless segments. I personally could have done with one
less event in their lives, and perhaps a different ending, but they
tried to be as faithful as possible.

What we have here is a movie about a relationship, but the novel was
about the people. They traded in character depth and development so we
can see them in their more attractive years falling in and out of love.

I wasn't very familiar with Jim Sturgess, having seen him play skinny,
slightly nerdy, not as confident kids. Dexter is a different breed of
guy. Just has high on self-confidence as he is on drugs and alcohol, he
gets by on his looks  literally  he's a TV host. Although the
different characteristics of Dexter weren't explicitly shown in the
movie, Sturgess brought them out in him perfectly. Emma is a more
complex character, with significant evolution to who she is throughout
the years, except none of that is in the movie, so it just wasn't
really possible for Hathaway to portray her as a more interesting
person.

I would assume that watching "One Day" without the benefit of having
read the novel would be a fairly confusing, empty experience. With the
background that the novel gave me, I could fill in all the missing
years and the unexplored layers to the characters, so there was still
something to their relationship for me.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings from Lithuania.

I don't watch romantic movies often, but when i heard about story of
"One day" i thought of giving it a chance. And it sure didn't
disappoint me. This is a really good love story, told in a single day
in a year in period of 23 years. Movie is beautifully filmed, with
great acting by the two leads, especially from Anne Hathaway. She's
just so ... beautiful in every meaning of this word. Can't wait to see
her next summer in "TDKR". "One day" isn't your typical Hollywood love
story and you can clearly FEEL that watching it. 

Give this movie a chance and you can be really surprised that when this
movie will end, you'll fell your self a little ... brighter.
