
IGNORE THE TRAILER: GO SEE IT!

I saw this movie tonight with a friend and it was spectacular. Going
in, I was excited as a life-long Disney fan but also expecting a
somewhat cheesy good-vs-evil type of movie based on what I had seen in
the trailer. I couldn't have been more wrong! Angelina Jolie delivers
an amazing performance and makes a well-known, previously rather one-
dimensional Disney villain relate-able and more sympathetic, while also
managing to look like a convincing, gorgeous, magical creature.

The CGI is a tad heavy and a little freaky at times (such as the three
coloured pixies/Aunts) but was used, in combination with some amazing
sets, to create a fantastic world and creatures which were reminiscent
of the beautiful and imaginative work in movies such as "Hellboy 2" and
"Pan's Labyrinth". The effort by the art team here really helps to draw
you into Maleficent's world at the beginning of the movie and makes you
wish you were a kid growing up with this movie as fodder for your
imagination.

Although Maleficent's character has been humanised in this re-telling,
the story really emphasises that she isn't human at all, and explores
the ins and outs of her life and how she relates to the humans she
encounters.

The plot for this movie really fits into the current trend of exploring
the anti-hero (Breaking Bad, Hannibal...) and shows that Disney is
trying to break with its past depiction of characters being black and
white, good or evil, etc.

I feel like I am gushing over this film, but as a Disney classic lover
I have been truly impressed by what is sure to be a new favourite with
kids and adults equally. I do expect some controversy over parts of the
film but I won't discuss those here.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a TRUE fairy tale. It's dark. It's raw. And it's written
from the dark, raw experience of women. 

Maleficent is about what happens when your Prince turns into a Frog.
It's the personal, inner journey to recover from a physical trauma and
emotional betrayal by those who are closest to us and who we trust the
most. It's about how to survive that type of horrific evil without
becoming evil yourself. It's message is that profound.

The critics complaining about this film want "fairy tales" to stay in
the same "one-love-fits-all" mode where people are either good or evil
and that all one needs is to find "romantic" love and marry a "good"
Prince or Princess, and you will live "happily ever after," safe from
any pain or sorrow. But real life is a lot messier than that.

It's actually evidence of how rare it is to see women's unfiltered
subjective emotional landscape portrayed on film that it seems many of
the critics cannot even wrap their brains around it! 

No matter. This film is so sensually visually stunning and viscerally
emotionally cathartic that sheer word of mouth enthusiasm is going to
make this a blockbuster, no matter what the critics say.

And it's equally rare to see a protagonist whose inner landscape is
more complex than simply extracting revenge, destroying their enemies
and...roll credits. People are more complicated than THAT fairy tale we
are sold in every other "action" and "adventure" film that only serves
to reinforce the psychopathic values of revenge and bravado.

Sometimes a film is so ahead of its time that the critics are behind
and so philosophically deep that it's message is incomprehensible to
the more superficial among us. This is one such film.

Woolverton and Jolie have crafted a masterpiece.

Don't miss it.
<|_=00=_|>
Every true fan of the original Sleeping Beauty (1959) was skeptical
about this and how much it had to deviate from the actual movie, and as
more of the movie was revealed, it was only proving to be another
female empowerment, victimized villain kind of a movie. But I'm glad I
was wrong, for I'm sure only by watching the whole movie can we truly
appreciate and understand the very convincing back story and
development the character was subject to. Of course with very liberal
changes to the original plot, the key elements that you'd look for are
intact. Need I mention the perfect casting of Angelina Jolie,
Maleficent truly comes to life in full form by Angelina's stunning
skills and presence. A twist that's not clich√©, sentiments that are
deep, humor that's ever so natural and action that always keeps you at
the edge of your seat! Maleficent in this movie is not exactly as we
know of her from the few minutes we got to see her in the original
movie, but let me tell you she's every bit deliciously evil. It was
amusing to see Angelina play a role that requires a lot of nuances to
pull of this character with a lot of depth as opposed to the
one-dimensional character from the movie. Never letting off the grip,
she carried the movie on her shoulders. Nothing to take away from the
beauty of the rest of the movie which takes breath with excellent
direction and visual effects that will truly transport you to another
world, and the amazing work by all the 'supporting' actors. Yes, the
other characters weren't as fleshed out as Maleficent, but I see that
as good thing, given the title and theme. A spectacular balance. I'd
also like to bring light on the enchanting score, thanks to James
Newton Howard, this maestro is underrated.

A comprehensive movie, there's a little something for audiences of all
ages, truly a masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
With the release of movie adaptations of classics like Snow White and
Jack and the beanstalk, both of which I was highly entertained and
thought it was simply amazing this movie was a sad let down. 

Pros: Visually stunning. Angelina Jolie's performance was spot on with
the most evil of classical villains we always knew. 

Cons: The most beautiful princess Aurora looks like the girl next door.
Why does Hollywood try to do that is beyond me. Mary Jane Watson
(Spidermans love interest) is supposed to be a beautiful actress and a
model. But again the movie portrays a girl next door look in ultimate
Spiderman. Elle Fannig's acting was not strong and in the end not
memorable in the least. It felt like she was there for the sake of
being there.

Sharlto Copley acting left a lot to be desired. Was he supposed to
portray a loving farther and husband driven mad or a power hungry king
driven insane by his overwhelming need to destroy the one creature that
he could not bring himself to kill when he had the chance? If he was
supposed to potray caring scenes it never really showed. ______________
______________

The King is portrayed as an evil man who begged for his daughters life
and could have easily returned maleficent's wings but instead chose not
to for reasons which are beyond anyones understanding. This is the
start of where the movie just becomes a drag. 

Maleficent curses the child to die in the original storyline and this
is the most important part in the story because of which the 3rd fairy
who did not bestow a gift alters the curse by making them sleep instead
of death. This part is totally lost in the movie. 

Watching a bunch of incompetent fairies nearly almost kill a child
before the curse can take effect is as much a mystery as why maleficent
would watch over the child and save it. Why the king would entrust his
child to faeries whom he dislikes is also as much a mystery as why he
would not send a nurse maid to care for his only child. 

The worst part of the movie is being subjected to watch the Princess
grow to 16 years old and marvel at the beautiful fairies (it feels like
pointless fillers). Also when the princess realizes whats going on one
day before her birthday, the 3 incompetent fairies again forget to
mention about what happened to Maleficents wings. The good fairies were
not incompetent, just funny in the original story and smart enough to
hide away the princess for 16 years. Why they made them look so
incompetent and negligent is beyond me.

Once you get over the visuals you will realize its nothing more than a
chick flick geared at young children (visuals) and adults who are
romantically inclined. 

The most evil Disney villain for over 50 years reduced to nothing more
than a scorned women out to seek revenge for the betrayal. A loving
father reduced to nothing more than a mad evil greed driven man who
plunges himself into insanity with a overwhelming urge to kill
maleficent despite his daughter being returned safe and well. 

Many times during the movie I found myself thinking about what work I
have the next day or what needs to be done. This is something I have
never experienced when sitting and watching a movie on big screen
completely immersed in the plot. 

This is a far cry from Snow White and the Huntsman which was really
good barring Kristen Stewart's emo acting (emotionless) drawn from
twilight.
<|_=00=_|>
I was genuinely excited to hear that Disney was going to make a film
about Maleficent, my favorite Disney villain of all time. I was
interested in knowing the 'why' behind her actions in Sleeping Beauty,
since we never really got to see that. I will say that the
cinematography is amazing. I will also say that while Angelina Jolie
was not my first choice, she had the look, her costume was spot-on, and
there are moments where you can see where she is at least trying to
play this role correctly (and really, who could replace Eleanor
Audley?). But one thing I've noticed over the past 10-15 years is that
animation and design seem to be their main focus, rather than story or
character development. In the movie, Maleficent's back story was
incredibly rushed. So much for going into depth on why Maleficent is
the way she is.

This movie does not explain why Maleficent is the way she is. Disney is
showing us a completely different character while giving her the same
name as Disney's most iconic villain. Now they're trying to say that
Maleficent is a misunderstood character who becomes evil. But that
never happens. She becomes angry and bitter, but not evil. Maleficent
in this movie is not even a misunderstood, sympathetic character. She
is a total victim who never becomes evil at all.

Oh, she does do one evil thing; she does still curse King Stefan's baby
out of revenge. And she has second thoughts about it two seconds
afterward. See? Not evil at all. And while I'm at it, I should mention
my distaste for the way she cursed Aurora: Disney completely lowered
the stakes by having Maleficent utter the words "sleep-like death" and
be the one to offer the cure of True Love's kiss. No! It's MERRYWEATHER
that counters the DEATH curse in order to save Aurora's life! Oh,
Maleficent may say later that she doesn't believe True Love exists, but
that's a matter of opinion isn't it? Again, LOWERS THE STAKES.

And what was Linda Woolverton thinking when she took King Stefan and
the three fairies completely out of character and gives them a complete
180 in order to make Maleficent look good? If you're going to show us
the point of view of a famous villain, it's okay to give them layers
and gray areas in order to make them more interesting and multi-
dimensional, even to show they weren't always evil. But NOT to say they
were never evil at all; that just completely defeats the point of the
character! Same with the good guys; they may have their own flaws, show
that they have their own prejudices, or that everything they did wasn't
perfect. But NOT to say "the good guys were really EVIL OR STUPID!"

The fairies, Flora, Fauna, and Merryweather (I refuse to call them by
their new names) are NOTHING like they were in Sleeping Beauty, and
this is a big deal. In Sleeping Beauty, say what you will about their
flaws but their ultimate motivation was keeping Aurora SAFE. At least
they tried, even if they failed! Maleficent (2014) portrays them as
nothing more than stupid buffoons who only care about saving their own
skins. Aurora was just a means to an end for them; they have no
relationship with her like they do in the original. The movie also took
away their own personalities, so they are no different from each other.
I can't even keep track of which fairy has which name! Watching them on
screen with everything they say or do was as cringe worthy as I
expected it to be. 

King Stefan has to be one of worst written villains I have seen in a
while. He has no real motivation for what he does; we see him as having
nothing in the beginning, and then the movie glosses over his
relationship with Maleficent in order to "get to the good part" where
he steals her wings in order to be king. After that, he wages war on
Maleficent for cursing his daughter, and yet he only looks at Aurora as
afterthought property. Why is he even after Maleficent then? What else
has she done to him other than cursing his daughter?

Elle Fanning as Aurora was very impressive. I do think she gave the
character more of a personality that was lacking in the original, and
she stole the film in every scene she was in. Unfortunately, that
wasn't enough to save the movie, nor were Maleficent's interactions
with Diaval, as enjoyable as they were. 

And of course, Maleficent does not turn into a dragon in this movie. I
have to ask; why, Disney? You knew how loved of a villain Maleficent
is, and her being a dragon is one of the many reasons why. Also, we
live in an age where technology and special effects are abundant; you
didn't use the opportunity to see how your most iconic villain looks as
a dragon when done with live-action CGI? Why would you waste a
perfectly good opportunity like that? Besides the fact that Maleficent
is not evil in this film, she also is very wimpy and pathetic. She
can't do ANYTHING. When we see her fight an army at the beginning, all
she does is fly around and slap a few soldiers with her wings. The tree
monsters did most of her fighting for her. In Sleeping Beauty, she
could transport herself to another place in a matter of seconds, she
could shoot lightning from her staff, and she could transform into
another form other than her own. She didn't do any of that in this
movie. 

Just like with Alice in Wonderland, Disney wasted a perfectly good
opportunity to effectively adapt their animated work to the live-action
screen. Maleficent may not be the absolute worst movie I've seen, but
it's definitely in my bottom list now.
<|_=00=_|>
Maleficent is magnificent. The story is sophisticated enough to delight
adult audiences with a brilliant take on the beloved tale with a
delightful twist including the meaning of true love. The characters are
sympathetic and there is enough excitement.

The art direction and cinematography are beautiful. The fairy land
scenes resemble a pre Raphaelite painting. The castle was a bit generic
CGI. The right blend of human faces with CGI so it didn't look too
animated. The director Stromberg who did Oz the Great and Powerful did
an even better job here.

Angelina Jolie's expressive face is the perfect showcase for the
character - it is the role of her lifetime. Like the way they did her
cheekbones to make it like the Disney cartoon. Sam Riley as her
sidekick morphs into many fairy tale creatures crow, dragon horse. The
creatures are well done not awkward in movement and not overwhelming.
Elle Fanning is sweet and picture perfect for the role of Aurora and
Brenton Thwaites plays her prince. The fairies including Juno Temple
and Imelda Staunton are cute too.

Liked this more than the Snow White movies 'Mirror Mirror' and 'Snow
White and the Hunstman'. The first was fun but a bit silly and the
second was too grim. Maleficent is the perfect blend of excitement and
fairy tale. Most enjoyable film of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
I have waited a long time for this film and it did not disappoint!

The film is very entertaining with stunning visuals and impressive
action scenes. This is definitely Angelina's film and she is incredible
as Maleficent.

Supporting cast are also impressive and Elle was perfect casting for
Aurora. The 3d was also good and really did enhance many scenes. The
score by James Newton Howard really blew me away and adds magic to the
film.

My screening was all made up of adults which surprised me. The trailers
for the film really give the film a dark tone, however the actual film
has many light Disney moments. 

I highly recommend this film and the 3d is worth paying a bit extra!
<|_=00=_|>
***Spoliers may be listed below****

Maleficent is a an iconic villainous role. She is one of Disney's best
characters cast from the dark side and when I saw the trailer I
succumbed to the beauty they inlaid using Jolie as the sinister evil
fairy. I was seduced to believing that I would be lured into a world of
evil and treachery. I wanted to see how evil was born and vengeance
would be enacted. I wanted to be able to bond with this evil force and
be drawn deep into darkness, rooting for the bad girl. I knew it would
be filled with beautiful scenes and Disney magic, but what I did not
anticipate that the greatest treachery would be the film itself. 

Jolie can most definitely embrace evil and the moments when she is
allowed to succumb to the full force of Maleficent it is beautiful.
Once you add in Goldie Locks however, you get a recipe for disaster.
Suddenly I might as well be in a world of pink pixie dust, leprechauns
and unicorns because this beautiful villain is disgraced into playing a
role of a misunderstood black hearted fairy who really loved the doe
eyed giggling Aurora. 

Hell hath no fury than a woman scorned, this should have been the
driving force behind the film. The beginning scenes of a youthful
Maleficent should have been nixed to allow more time to build a love
story that was even remotely believable. To fall from grace the
betrayal has to be tangible and dripping with poison. It must be
something more than just a monologue infatuation and stolen wings. They
said years passed and yet I felt nothing of a bond or great love that
would give birth to Maleficent's destiny.

In Disney's Rapunzel the "mother" figure who raised Rapunzel from a
baby never fell in love with the child as a daughter. She was still
greedy, evil and dedicated to her path. So why must the world's most
wonderful villain turn to a soft hearted Godmother of a vapid child. I
know Disney is trending this "don't bet on the prince" idea and that's
fine I support that, but really...they thought this was "no truer
love." 

If they think the king suffered by simply being tortured with the
countdown till his child's demise then they are sadly mistaken. That
was child's play. A woman changed by betrayal to the dark side has more
ideas in her play-book that can make a man suffer. Madness would have
been the king knowing that Maleficent knew the entire time where Aurora
was hiding. Maleficent should have been sending him snippets of hair or
visions of his daughter with the raven peering down at him while he
slept. He should have been physically and mentally destroyed, a raving
lunatic. 

I would have rather liked to see a double treachery in the story. That
only the raven knew all along where Aurora was and hid it from his
mistress. We could watch the anger burn and grow within Maleficent
because she wasn't able to find the child for 16 years. That in the
interim the raven would randomly turn into human form and it would have
been those two that fell in love and the tragic day that Maleficent
discovers her location through some fool's errand played by the three
dopey fairies guarding her, absconds with the child and let's the curse
play out its course. Then I would have a mega battle scene at the edge
of the forest against the king, let her have her righteous moment when
she takes his life all the while the king knowing his daughter is stuck
in endless slumber with no hope of her being saved. Then during the
battle the raven after escaping the battlefield leaves Maleficent's
side to try and wake Aurora. When Maleficent discovers her minion's
treachery the pain and anger at being betrayed for a second time by her
own kind would fill her from the pit of her stomach up through her
spine and a black fire filling her eyes transforming to the great
dragon and an epic battle of good and evil which will lead to her
glorious death! That would have at least been something!

Then they could have there happier ever after. Then all those still
shots of Maleficent looking like a falling angel in the glimmering
sunlight would have been more picturesque, more visually twisted. 

Overall, I feel I paid $15 dollars for another movie funded by the
Prozac and Xanax manufacturers that spread fallacies that evil fairies
are really good, vampires are not evil blood suckers and werewolves
make great best friends. It's a snooze and a travesty. If you love the
traditional iconic role of Maleficent remain in darkness and forget the
lies the trailer told you for the glorious black dragon is covered in
daffodils and pink tutus in this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying that Maleficent has been a personal favorite of
mine when it comes to Disney villains. Throughout her many
interpretations, she has simply been Evil (yes, with a capital E). So
forgive me if this review is a bit of a rant.

In this adaptation, she is reinterpreted as a good fairy (because she's
apparently not a human sorceress anymore?) that simply has a hissyfit.
She is certainly not evil - just angry for a little while. She even
ends up becoming a Godmother??

Even King Stephen's character is butchered. Why does he go insane over
her? If he were really the bad guy, why wouldn't he have killed
Maleficent when he had the chance? What possible reason does he have
for being indifferent about the welfare of his daughter?

Speaking of Aurora, it's worth mentioning that she is relatively
alright, but still not too close to her original character. A petty
aesthetic thing about her is that her hair and eyebrows are not the
same color, which is really distracting. 

Additionally, they rehash the concept from Frozen, which is that 'True
Love' doesn't have to be from some man. If this trend continues from
Disney, all we'll see is sisterly/Godmotherly/family love movies where
Romance is thrown out the window because it apparently doesn't end with
a "happily ever after" anymore.

Overall, this film was simply horrible if you respected Maleficent as a
villain. If you did like Maleficent as she was, I don't recommend
seeing this movie. Even if you like the idea of there being no such
thing as Evil, I urge you not to see this movie. Don't support the
people who made it.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like fairy tales and believe in love then you'll hate this film.
It's beautifully filmed and well acted by Angelina Jolie, but the story
is so over the top with the male hatred it becomes ludicrous.

By the end of the film I just started laughing at how insane it was.
Made me think the writer just had to be a woman and she must have
suffered the worst break up in history, or else she just really hated
men.

I was looking forward to seeing this film ever since it was teased in
theaters. Now I wish I had my money back.

Some may say this film is like Frozen. That's only if we discovered
Christoff was actually in league with the evil Prince and Olaf was
their spy.
