
The current score of this movie is 4 and unless you are a devoted fan
of the books that's harsh. If you are in love with the twenty or so
books you must have known less than two hours worth of movie will never
compare, ever. I sympathize, beloved books are difficult to put on
film, but this was actually rather amusing. On par with most romantic
comedies and even better than some. It's not actually a romantic comedy
though, an outlandish-girly-action-mystery-comedy is a more accurate
description. The previews are representative of the film.

I will say the PG-13 rating was forced, mostly in the "language"
category. Cable TV after 10 pm has more bite. An R rating with a few
swearing felons would have been a bit more realistic, especially since
the sexual situations are more than a 13-year-old should be watching
and the storyline definitely adult. The writers must have sacrificed 10
swears for 3 bras and a shower curtain or something equally
un-creative.

The comedy was there, sexual and self-deprecating and physical as
advertised. On opening weekend (with the $6 groupon) the theater was
full and the audience was seated throughout and laughing regularly.

Eavesdropping, the book fans were a little disappointed but mostly
because they know so much more about the characters at this point. They
wanted more Lula and Grandma and quirky little side scenes they
remembered from the novel. Katherine Heigl was not loved as Stephanie
Plum, but not hated enough to curse. Expectations were met.

I will agree it wasn't worth $11.25, but a lot of movies aren't. As a
matin√©e or a DVD, go for it.
<|_=00=_|>
This adaptation of Janet Evanivich's book is well done and a lot of
fun. Katherine Heigl is excellent in the role of Stephanie Plum.
Apparently the author considered Katherine perfect for this role after
seeing her in another movie. I'm so glad it was directed by a woman and
combines the chick flick aspect with the mystery/bounty hunter
storyline. Women's dates will be well rewarded, by Heigl's charm and
beauty, for being along for the ride.

Heigl proves again what she showed in her television work in Grey's
Anatomy and Roswell, that she's an excellent and versatile actress. She
displays the vulnerability combined with toughness and a certain
likable gullibility that are exactly as the book portrays the main
character.

The movie is only 91 minutes long. Since the book and the movie depend
more on the fun of getting to know the characters, including the
first-person narrator, Stephanie Plum, it would have been so easy, and
would have made it much better IMO, to include more scenes with the
family, especially Grandma Mazur (Debbie Reynolds!), and with Lula
(Sherri Shepherd is also wonderful). As it is, the "action" plot takes
over in the second half, and it left me wishing for more of the fun
character interactions.

Plum, Morelli and Ranger are really well portrayed and quite a lot like
I imagined them while reading the book. This is light entertainment
with a few quirks and unpredictable points of view, like the book, and
overall a very enjoyable hour and a half.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to love "One for the Money", and I should have. It had
fantastic source material, a writer from one of my favorite shows
("Nurse Jackie"), and an actress from what used to be one of my
favorite shows ("Grey's Anatomy"), but this film could not have been
any more disastrous. There was a movie that I hated a few years ago
called "The Bounty Hunter", with Jennifer Aniston and Gerard Butler. I
felt like that film was as contrived as could be, and was unfunny,
unromantic and incredibly unconvincing. I hate to say that "One for the
Money fell into that same ball park.

One of the reasons why I love the book, "One for the Money", by Janet
Evanovich is because its heart, Stephanie Plum was an unapologetic
badass, profane and saucy. I always pictured someone like Sandra
Bullock playing the lead role, a born-and-raised Jersey girl who was
down on her luck, who finds her inner badass through a series of
misadventures, but ultimately comes out on top in the end.

I don't necessarily blame Katherine Heigl for ruining this movie. She
did the best she could, even though her Jersey accent is laughably bad.
She was simply miscast. She should have never discontinued her work on
"Grey's Anatomy, because if these are the kinds of roles she's getting,
her future's only going to get worse.

Julie Ann Robinson ("The Last Song") directed, who I blame for the
movie's obviously unclear vision. You get the idea that she didn't know
what she wanted this movie to be. Maybe she thought that after all of
the books that had been written, fans don't remember the first chapter
of the franchise. Did she and the rest of the filmmakers intend this to
be a film franchise as well? You get the idea that no one really cared,
given the film's messy ending and sitcom-y writing.

Liz Brixius (Nurse Jackie), Karen McCullah Lutz (Legally Blonde) and
Kristen Smith (The Ugly Truth) are responsible for the travesty of a
screenplay. Women ARE funny. There have been so many funny and smart
movies that had primarily female writers, actors and directors, so why
does this film seem misogynist? It's a mixed message, and an
implication that I really don't like. Their version of Stephanie Plum
is an idiot. She's not a saucy badass, like the one I loved in the
books. Her profanity is turned down, too, because of the meaningless
desire that the filmmakers must have had to get a PG-13 rating. Why
would kids want to see this movie? Oh, of course...Katherine Heigl's
inevitable "sideboob".

I enjoy the work of Liz Brixius, considering that she is the creator of
one of my favorite shows, "Nurse Jackie". She has shown over the years
that she knows how to properly illustrate complicated characters. She
is not beyond character development, and making characters fully
realized...so what went wrong here? Why didn't she scream at the other
two writers, "what the hell are you doing?!"

I can only imagine how bad true fans of the books felt about this
travesty. There are eighteen Stephanie Plum novels, plus short stories,
novellas and crossovers. People clearly like this character, and there
have got to be a bunch of true fans out there. The first book was
written in 1994, and there was talk of a movie then. It had been in
development hell since then, and it's a shame to say that it probably
should have stayed there.

Grade: D-
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was partially filmed in my home town so there was a natural
curiosity to see the finished product after watching portions of the
filming. 

I am going to try and give a basic review without adding spoilers for
those who have followed the book series or my fellow neighbors that
will be compelled to see this film.

There was a lot of potential with the story line. The acting by Debbie
Reynolds and the street-walkers were the acting highlights. The lead
actress (Heigl) was disconnected from the role, the lead male(O'Mara)
was not utilized fully by the director? screen play?. The villains
non-threatening and lacking ( John Leguizamo could have made a much
needed positive impact on the film if they would have actually given
him more than two scenes). 

Overall the movie misses in the following ways: 1) Heigl was not
convincing in the lead role. She was flat and failed to develop any
interest or depth in character. 2) The plot was so predictable it was
not even deserving of a place on a Made FOR TV line schedule. 3) I did
not care for any of the characters nor the entanglements they were in. 

The plus side:

1) Debbie Reynolds was great! 2) Sherri Sheperd ....great! 

I would wait for this film to come to late night television so you
could at least enjoy those extended length infomercials between bits of
the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
If you haven't read the book you MIGHT like the movie. If you've read
and loved the books this movie leaves a lot to be desired.

I suppose the MAIN part of the plot is the same but the details are
scrambled or in some cases completely left out. Maybe I'm in the
minority but a lot of the really funny stuff in the book was in the
details and these parts got lost in the translation to the big screen.
There was nothing too extreme in the book that might not have fit in
the PG-13 rating so why did they change so many things? It was like the
added more dialog in places and took out the fun and exciting stuff.
Time shouldn't have been the reason either because the movie ran only
an hour and a half - if they'd gone for two they could have had a much
better (and closer to the book) adaptation.

I didn't care for the casting. Lula, Connie, and Vinnie matched the
book descriptions of the characters fairly well but everyone else was
off. It was like the casting director didn't read the book.

I'm disappointed because I had high hopes for the movie. I won't be
buying the DVD or going to any sequels. Really, I think they'd have
been better off to cast all unknowns that FITTED the characters and
stuck to the plot from the book - it would have had a better shot.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw the movie. I admit, I do not go to the movie theatre very
often, but this was worth the money. It is a soft comedy movie and I
thought both the script and the delivery were performed very well. My
wife (who read the book series) thought that Carlos (the ranger) should
have been hotter. I thought he delivered the role convincingly. If you
are expecting a Bruce Willis action flick-this is not it. If you are
expecting Jenna Elfman, you will be out of luck. Kathrine played it
straight and to the point. The pace was rapid and the scenes were
captured realistically (good editing.) The events in the movie are
engineered to appeal to the ladies. It did. My wife really liked the
film. I admit, I enjoyed it. I would recommend this film.

Congratulations to the cast and crew. This film is one in the win
column and will no doubt be shown repeatedly on TV in the future with
audiences taking time to watch it again and again.

Regards, Matt
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer would remind you of the forgettable The Bounty Hunter
starring Gerard Butler and Jennifer Aniston with the former being the
titular character whose target happens to be his ex-wife, having them
bicker and run from various misadventures together. Reverse the roles
in order to have a female bounty hunter going after an ex-boyfriend,
and the stage is set for more of the same, no? Not quite. One for the
Money has a lot more going for it, predominantly being a film written
by and made by females for its intended audience, and being an engaging
flick chick that wonderfully encapsulates a whodunnit.

Katherine Heigl seems to be on a successful roll on celluloid, and is
in her element here in this romantic action adventure comedy as lead
character Stephanie Plum, a rookie bounty hunter drawn to the
profession only because she's desperate for a job to pay off impending
bills. An ex-lingerie model, we follow her transition from girly girl
to a somewhat tough cookie ready to hold her own in her cousin's
business, where an added incentive is to hunt down and bring in her
ex-boyfriend Joe Morelli (Jason O'Mara), a cop wanted for the gunning
down an unarmed felon.

Yes one would expect the usual laughs coming from her inexperience in a
new field, her constantly being outwitted by slier opponents in the big
bad town of Trenton, New Jersey, and having that pitch perfect sexual
charisma with her mark since they share a common romantic history
before in their youths. But to my surprise One for the Money has a
little bit more depth in its story than I would have imagined, playing
out like a mystery with a crime at hand to solve, with Stephanie
stumbling her way from fact to fact, interacting with various
interesting caricatures who don't bore, and plays out exactly like an
80s private detective film of old in spirit.

Written by Stacy Sherman, Karen Ray and Liz Brixius off the well
received novel of the same name by Janet Evanovich, this probably
accounts for a lot of female-centric focus on elements in the
storyline, as well as director Julie Anne Robinson's ability to center
this very much like a chick flick, wrapped around an old fashioned
whodunnit. I mean, only in a story with an attractive female
protagonist would you have other females in the story either old, or
matronly, and having not one but two hunks - Morelli and fellow
alpha-male bounty hunter Ranger (Daniel Sunjata) - involved at the
crossroads of her life. Plenty of characterization goes into the lead
character of Stephanie Plum, and Heigl brings a certain sass to the
role, with little street smarts that cover for her lack of experience
in the field.

Granted the mystery doesn't quite play out with that kind of tension
and suspense as one would expect from a true blur genre film, but it
does enough with its slight touch and managed to keep interest afloat.
While there are 18 novels to date in the series of Stephanie Plum's
adventures in bounty hunting, with each novel title starting with a
number / numerically related, reality is that any subsequent film will
have to rely on how much this makes at the box office. My bet is that
it'll likely be something quite modest with a potential of 17 more
films made only if Heigl wants to be stereotyped (if not already) or
typecast. Still, One for the Money sits above average on the
entertainment scale, and can be recommended fare if you'd give it a
chance.
<|_=00=_|>
One for the Money reviewed 9 out of 10 bags of popcorn.

Having read all eighteen of the Stephanie Plum books, a few of them
more than once, it is safe to say that I am a big fan of the series,
even though SP16 was a little disappointing and SP17 was a huge
letdown. In any case, I went to the multiplex with a clear vision in my
mind of how the characters should look, act and interact. This is the
first movie that I've actually gone to a theater to see in at least two
years. Sadly, the director seems to belong to what I call the 'mumble
school of filmmaking', and the dialogue was very hard to follow at
times. And no, that's not just my aged ears reacting because the
forty-three-year-old I saw it with had a hard time hearing it as well.
Best of all, we are in Orlando at the moment, with some dead time on
our hands, and went to an early bird special for $5 per head. These
days that's a bargain.

The movie worked. The chemistry between Plum and Morelli was obvious on
screen. Morelli had a nice lithe but tightly muscular body with a
well-proportioned butt. Too bad about those disgusting tattoos, but
that too, was probably in character. Lula the street 'ho' was perfectly
cast, as were Stephanie's cousin Vinnie and the girl in the bail bond
office who Janet Evanovich describes as carrying most of her weight in
her chest. Stephanie's parents were well done, and Debbie Reynolds was
a pleasant surprise as Grandma Mazur. I'd always pictured Grandma as
sort of wizened and shriveled (sort of like the Nanny's grandmother),
and Reynolds at a couple of months shy of eighty didn't quite fit my
preconceived image. That being said Reynolds has a flair for comedy,
and it worked. The only disappointment was the casting of Ranger, hence
the one bag deduction. Ranger was believable, but a little too
personable, and maybe even a tad too verbose. Ranger in the books
didn't talk a lot, and could put a whole sentence into one word when he
looked at Stephanie and said, "Babe." The characters sounded like New
Jersey residents and the row houses they lived in looked authentic.

Oh, and the 1953 Buick that Stephanie frequently borrows from the
family is now a huge Buick from the 70s or 80s, but that worked quite
nicely.

My partner and I are both looking forward to the next Stephanie Plum
movie, assuming this one does well enough at the box office to justify
the production.
<|_=00=_|>
Very enjoyable light entertainment. A crime story that revolves around
a clueless but persistent woman. The crime itself isn't all that
important, and the focus is not on the narrative drive forward (which
is good because it's kinda predictable). The focus is instead on the
character of the female lead. Oddly, it's not about her growing as a
character, or even about her getting more and more confident about her
chosen line of work. It's not even about proving herself to everyone
that she is capable.

The story is about persistence, about how this character is somehow
ideally suited for this situation, but just lacks the knowledge to be
truly successful. 

If this wasn't such a light and airy movie, I would suspect that it was
a metaphor for living in the age of the Internet, where knowledge is a
commodity and anyone who has access to specific areas of knowledge can
be an expert. Alas, it's a little less than that.

Unfortunately for the movie, the lack of character depth and the
cumbersome box-like production make it seem very TV-ish. Like this was
the pilot episode of a series. It also suffers from useless-narrator
syndrome. I didn't read the book, but I suspect the source material may
share some of the blame for that via lazy exposition.

Speaking from a guy's point of view about what is essentially a chick
movie, it doesn't hurt that Heigl is hot, has a nice smile, and can
handle a gun. And is a pretty good actress, sure, yeah... that. The
casting could have been a lot worse. I would watch Heigl in just about
anything if she stayed brunette.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of the book series, I was slightly disappointed with the
movie. I liked it a lot, but felt they didn't do all the characters
justice. Steph was fine, quite a bit better than I was expecting from
Katherine. Joe was very good, liked him a lot. Vinny was better than I
thought that actor would be, even though it is funny that I had thought
of Fisher Stevens for Vinny, and what do you know, he is in the film as
another character. Connie was good, Lula was good, Steph's parents were
pretty good as well. Now I am going to be a bit critical, it is a
review you know, Ranger was only OK, no pony-tail, not as dark and
brooding as the book relays. He smiled way too much! Any smile from
Ranger should speak volumes! Grandma Mazur; I love Debbie Reynolds, but
she didn't quite capture the little old lady. Benito Ramirez was
nowhere near as fear inducing, brutal monster as he should have been. I
think the movie would have been much better over all if they went for
an R rating, rather than fluffing it up a bit to be PG-13. My biggest
complaint, as a "car guy", is Big Blue. You mean to tell me they
couldn't find an appropriate 50s Buick?! The point of the car is to
represent something that most of the men who see it appreciate it, but
the women don't get it. A 70s Buick, really irked me!!! All in all a
good movie, 3.5 stars from us!! Look forward to the continuing series!!
