
Despite having the opportunity to see Darren Aronofsky's absolutely
extraordinary masterpiece Black Swan at this year's past Toronto
International Film Festival, I did regret missing out on Danny Boyle's
127 Hours. The film was one of the few to emerge from the festival with
momentous Oscar buzz, and even a bit of controversy over a specific
scene late in the film that was causing people to faint in theatres.

The film chronicles the true story of Aron Ralston (James Franco), a
recklessly arrogant mountain climber whose arm gets crushed under a
boulder during a trip through Utah canyon country. With no one coming
to save him, he must decide whether he will die or fight for survival.

The logline and description may not sound like much, but 127 Hours
delivers one of the most riveting and incredibly emotional experiences
I have had in a theatre in some time. I was unsure Boyle and his crew
could top their Oscar-winning work in Slumdog Millionaire, but this
film improves upon it in every way possible. Because of all the talk
about "the scene", the majority of people will know how the film ends
well before they even consider seeing it. But everything leading up to
Aron's life-altering decision is absolutely amazing and the stuff of
pure filmmaking magic.

From the very beginning up until the very end, you know you are in the
hands of some truly special filmmakers, specifically Boyle. Everything
in the film seems to have a pulse and a life of its own, whether it is
the hyper kinetic editing, the lush and gorgeous cinematography, the
often epic score, the thought-provoking writing or just the general
style of the film. Where other movies pay very little attention to the
little things, Boyle and company seem to have amped up the quality in
the majority of those areas, and made a film whose elements very much
complement each other. I could not believe the short running time at
first, but they pack so much in and the film moves at such an
aggressively energetic pace, that you barely have time to slow down and
breathe once the film really gets moving.

One of the unique things that really stood out for me was the use of
flashback throughout the film. Ralston spends a lot of time thinking
about what brought him to this life changing moment, and it is rather
interesting how Boyle handles these thoughts. They act specifically as
our way into Ralston's life and his character dynamic, but they never
seem to overtake the bigger picture of his being pinned by the rock.
They work rather brilliantly as asides, as mere stylishly and crazily
edited set pieces (a naked party in the back of an SUV is a particular
standout). They are among the film's few scenes of character
interaction, and help the audience adjust deeper and deeper into
Ralston's mindset. It aids the film in being an even greater experience
of authenticity. His hallucinations are done in very much the same way,
but do not work nearly as great as these off-the-wall scenes do.

The lengthy cast list may not suggest it, but the film is really just
the James Franco show. We only get fleeting and stylishly edited
glimpses of him at first, but after the boulder comes down, the film
becomes a deeply focused, claustrophobic and devastatingly candid
character piece driven almost exclusively by facial movements and
reactions. 2010 has been a year of transformations by actors, and
Franco's turn as Ralston is no different. The camera gets right in his
face and shows us the gritty reality of his predicament, and Franco is
eerily authentic in his portrayal. You can see the gradual exhaustion
and desperation taking its toll on him; you can see the visible fear on
his face as he faces life or death. Not many actors are able to drive a
film by mainly interacting with themselves and the static objects
around them, but Franco delivers in spades at every turn. Whether he is
being devastatingly hilarious or dead serious, he still manages to
ensure the realism and intensity of his performance never changes. You
will be unable to take your eyes off this riveting portrayal at any
time.

While it pains me to have to point out the film's small amount of
imperfections (even with the attention to detail), it is only because I
cannot wrap my head around the film being absolutely flawless. This is
an incredible piece of cinema, but there are a few special effects,
musical and editing choices made that are simply baffling. I understand
the point and logistical ideas around some of them, but some just stand
out as odd. Why point out the insects that inhabit Ralston's
surroundings, and then make them so CGI'ed that they look visibly fake?
Why throw in the out of place tunes to help try and convey his
emotions? I know I am pulling at strings, but there were at least a
handful of elements that seemed out of place and made the film slightly
less than perfect. It just seems these extra steps easily could have
been made to make the film even more pristine.

127 Hours is not just a film Â– it is an experience. It is only in
limited release now, but I can only hope that audiences everywhere will
get the opportunity to see the movie. It is an amazing movie centred
around an absolutely incredible, legendary performance. Watching Franco
bare his soul on-screen is practically a cleansing experience. I went
in with high hopes, and left with a huge smile on my face. It is
authentically emotional, and in a year merely punctuated with a handful
of amazing movies amongst a sea of filth, it more than just stands out.
It is quite simply, unforgettable.

9.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I came into this movie with high expectations. Danny Boyle, who brought
us 28 DAYS LATER and SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE had a lot to live up to with
the quality of prior movies, and he did not disappoint. He brought the
challenge of creating an interesting movie based on our main character
being immobile to life, and captivating it was. Being stuck with our
main character the entire duration of the film was anything but
tedious, as we follow the thoughts of canyoneer Aron Ralston (James
Franco) as he gets trapped under a rock while exploring the beautiful
sights of Utah. The camera does a fabulous job taking us everywhere a
wandering mind might migrate in a situation such as this.

The human connection element was most fascinating, as we wonder what we
would do if placed in a similar situation. We are really "with" Ralston
on his journey, as we see him discover a reason to live and how his
life perspective changes, not just how to get free from his
predicament. The film manages to stay optimistic and warming, despite
the frustration and angst felt by Ralston and viewers. And we certainly
thank Boyle for some of the lighter moments that temper the severity of
the situation.

The film does not shy away from tough choices and certainly keeps it
"real" during the entire run, especially during the critical climax
scene. Despite being stuck in place the movie is fascinating at the
pace with which it moves and keeps the audience's attention from start
to finish. So while Ralston loves living on the edge, we see Boyle
create this movie in a similar fashion, metaphorically speaking, as the
intensity and gripping nature of Ralston's circumstances comes alive
and sucks us in.

In the movie Aron Ralston sets off on a typical weekend excursion being
outdoors and with nature. During his journey he befriends a couple of
female hikers who are somewhat lost and looking to get back on their
way. He shows them the ropes of the canyons and they set off home.
Little do they know that their friend will need their help just moments
later. Becoming trapped under a rock, Ralston now is faced with the
challenge of keeping himself alive while trying to break loose from the
rock's firm grasp. As Aron works on a solution, we see him wonder about
the party he's been invited to just hours earlier, think about how his
has ignored his family, wonder about where he left his Gatorade, which
would keep him hydrated longer, do a live interview featuring himself
on camera, and drink his own urine.

I think the part of the movie that moved me the most actually occurred
after the climax, where we see Ralston, broken, desperate, and willing
to end his lone-wolf mentality for good. The emotions felt during the
last 5 minutes signify human triumph, perseverance, and the power of
the human spirit. Incredible movie, a definite must-see 9/10 stars
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes (even oftentimes) in the world of film criticism, the word
"triumphant" is thrown around. It's often used to describe a film,
perhaps more often a performance. I've certainly used it; it's a term I
like to pull out when a film seems to go beyond the call of duty. When
it's more than art, entertainment, or a combination of both. When the
story, images, and characters pop off the screen and go with you, and
the lasting impression left on you means something more than having
killed a couple hours in a big, dark room with a bunch of strangers.
Now, after watching 127 Hours, I feel I've never used "triumphant" in
the correct critical context before.

James Franco's performance is simply astounding. He, as an actor, is
triumphant because his character is, and because he delves into what it
means to be bringing this incredible story to life on the big screen
for mass consumption. This is a tough role - Franco is basically
putting on a one-man show, and he does so elegantly. We feel Aron
Ralston's pain because Franco feels his pain and shows it in every line
of his face, verbalizes it with every sigh, and lets it control him
even as he battles to take control back and find a way out of his dire
situation.

It's pure, masterful art. Franco is simply flawless. Trapped by the
boulder, much of his performance lies in his facial expressions, and he
is able to deftly switch from desperation to comedy to a brutal will to
survive, all while being barely able to move. I've rarely been so
impressed by an actor's work; Franco is wholly deserving of the Oscar.

Danny Boyle's kinetic, energetic direction is a perfect match for
Franco's easy-going goofiness, and even when the film becomes grounded
in the narrow canyon where Ralston was trapped, Boyle always keeps
things interesting. He and co-writer Simon Beaufoy weave flashbacks and
hallucinations into Ralston's dilemma to great, heart-breaking effect,
and the premonition that drives Ralston to finally dive whole-heartedly
into amputating his own arm is breath-taking in its tenderness.

Also impressive is Enrique Chediak and Anthony Dod Mantle's
cinematography. Instead of letting the confined space limit their
camera techniques, they tackle every possible angle, often bringing the
audience uncomfortably close to the action. Shots through the bottom of
Ralston's water bottle mark time and heighten the sense of urgency. The
addition of home movie-style footage brings Ralston even closer to the
audience; when he expresses his delayed gratitude to his family, you'll
likely find yourself thinking about the last time you told your parents
how much you love them. It's a great device, and is put to best use in
one of the film's funniest scenes, when Ralston interviews himself
Gollum-style. The combination of the dark humor, varied cinematography,
and Franco's impressive facial dexterity pitch the scene perfectly;
it's a lighter moment that is nevertheless grounded in the gravity of
the situation.

Complementing and combining Chediak and Mantle's beautiful shots is Jon
Harris's dynamic editing. The use of split-screen is particularly
brilliant, put to use in innovative ways throughout the film: the
bookend sequences mark Ralston's departure from and return to society,
and the technique in general represents the multiple facets of a
seemingly simple tale. Yes, when it comes down to it, 127 Hours is a
film about a mountain climber who gets stuck under a boulder and has to
cut off his own arm. But it's so much more than that. It's about a man
overcoming the physical, emotional, and intellectual strains of an
unthinkable situation. It's about responsibility, love, and the will to
live. Above all, it's about the triumph of the human spirit, show more
clearly and beautifully here than in any other film I can think of.
<|_=00=_|>
I started loving this film within the first few seconds. 127 Hours
begins immediately with the sound of Fresh Blood's "Never Hear Surf
Music Again" ("There must be some f*%#ing chemical, chemical in your
brain, that makes us different from animals, makes us all the same."
etc...) just as featured in the 1st trailer. That not-ripped-off
euphoric feeling (how many times have you seen a trailer with a perfect
song/music and then felt betrayed that it wasn't in the film later...
yeah, me too) carried on all the way through the rest of the film.

The film has an energetic start with a split screen showing
office-bound commuters/workers going along their daily drudge while our
lead, x-treme biker/hiker/climber Aron Ralston (played to perfection by
actor James Franco) packs his gear (unfortunately not finding his Swiss
Army knife which might have made a lot of difference to him later on)
for a trek into Blue John Canyon country in Utah. While on his way he
has a brief fun climbing/diving/swimming interlude with two female
hikers (played by Kate Mara and Amber Tamblyn). He then heads off on
his own and at about 20 minutes into the movie takes a tumble with a
small boulder that ends up pinning his right arm against the side wall
of the thin crevice of a canyon. And that is where we are with him for
the next "127 hours" (but only 1 hour of screen time) that it takes him
to get loose.

I'm not going to spoil that resolution here, although most will likely
hear about it anyway before seeing the movie. An obvious clue that he
survives is given by the screen credit early in the film that says it
is "based on the book Between A Rock And A Hard Place by Aron Ralston".
The guy must of survived if he wrote a book about it right? Well, you
can survive in many ways and not all of them leave you whole (both
mentally and physically).

Director Danny Boyle brings a lot of the key Oscar-winning players of
the Slumdog team back for this new film. Screenwriter Simon Beaufoy,
soundtrack composer A.R.Rahman and cinematographer Anthony Dod Mantle
(this time paired with Enrique Chediak) are chief among those. As an
added bonus, from the director of the toilet-diving cam in
Trainspotting, we now have the "desperately thirsty character saves his
own urine so it can be filmed while drunk through a tube"-cam in this
movie.

At the Toronto Film Festival's 2nd screening of the film, Boyle was
there to take questions from the audience and his enthusiasm and
excitement about the film were infectious. Tidbits included his talking
about their 6 days of location shooting followed by a sound-stage
recreation of the canyon based on 3D scanning imagery. Boyle also
praised actor James Franco and emphasized how every time we see him in
a new film he is stretching his talents and abilities, unlike many lead
actors who are just basically playing themselves in various different
situations.

Boyle said that for an audience to watch what would otherwise be deemed
"unwatchable" you either had to be making a
schlocky/not-to-be-taken-seriously horror movie OR you had to make the
audience completely identify with the character to the extent that they
would believe that they themselves would have done the exact same thing
to save themselves if they had to. Well, Boyle succeeds in making you
believe it.

Seen at the Ryerson Theatre, Toronto Sept. 13, 2010. 2nd screening of 3
at TIFF 2010.
<|_=00=_|>
You may be dying but the world moves on. That is the naked truth about
our existence and the main allegory written in the stimulating visual
experience provided by Danny Boyle in his latest film. 127 Hours is a
wonderful metaphor for solitude and for the importance of what life
means at an individual level. It enhances the indescribable experience
of having a family, friends and love, but most of all cherishes the
meaning of human contact. Solitude is perceived as being bearable and a
lot of times needed but seldom is viewed as being fulfilling. Only when
the epiphany pops into our minds, we realize what we have been missing.
It is a common and frustrating fact. Nonetheless, Danny Bolyle's
achievement allows a new and fresh take on this theme. The director
shows the audiences that life happens when they least expect. And truth
be told, there is a bright place for those who abandon their
egotistical "independence" and start sharing the events that life
provides.

Telling a story about a man who is stuck in the same place for such an
extensive period of time is definitely not easy. Danny Boyle described
the picture as "an action movie in which the hero doesn't move" and he
certainly took the challenge. With this in mind, two main conclusions
can be withdrawn from Boyle's work: 1) He was able to maintain the
action dynamic and the viewers engaged through a series of devices that
allow them to be interested not only on the hero's present condition
but also in his past and, quite possibly, his future. The mind behind
Trainspotting entered the psyche of his new hero and gave it a shape
and a texture that transformed the general perception. The empathy
towards the character grew and from that moment on the audience grabbed
the hook. He was able to dissect James Franco's character thoughts and
desires in a moment of extreme physical and psychological agony.

2) It was extremely hard to be inventive in such scenario and some
techniques proved to be tiresome. In certain moments during the movie,
Danny Boyle seemed to be trying to hard when having a simpler approach
looked like to be more successful. He stylized the action in a way that
doesn't always work even considering that he established his filmmaking
style from the very beginning.

With regards to the main performer, it is only fair to praise James
Franco's enactment. It is a truly astonishing tour-de-force that will
probably be mentioned during the Oscar nominations. He's not only
charming and witty but his personality fills the screen with such a
great talent. It is very gratifying to observe his evolution according
to the character's state of mind.

127 Hours is a quite remarkable achievement. There's the ability to
pick up a true straightforward story about survival and courage and
enhance it through a sheer composition of good sense without falling on
the old American clichÃ©. This story does not try to be epic or
monumental. It tries to be honest and true. And we, as viewers, don't
feel cheated or slapped across the face, and that is really all we
could ask for.
<|_=00=_|>
As demonstrated by his ability to earn acclaim in everything from
zombie films ("28 Days Later") to foreign coming-of-age love stories
("Slumdog Millionaire"), Danny Boyle has an extraordinary gift as a
filmmaker and in "127 Hours," he channels it into an extraordinary
story of human willpower. This could have easily been a compelling but
plain and ordinary documentary on the Discovery Channel or National
Geographic about a man pinned under a boulder who miraculously
survives. Boyle, however, transforms it into a powerful statement about
the will to live and where that motivation truly comes from.

"127 Hours" does not simply prove the point that humans will do
whatever it takes to survive in dire circumstances. In fact, I might
argue 9 of 10 people wouldn't do what Aron Ralston (James Franco) does
in this film. Anyway, Boyle makes it his mission to use Ralston's
incredible true story -- one that told at face value would probably
just elicit gasps -- to alter our perspective on living. 

What's obvious is that none of the impact of "127 Hours" is possible
without Franco. A film about a man trapped in a crevice for more than
five days needs a heck of a lead actor and Franco, despite few dramatic
credits to this point, proves beyond capable. Although boredom might
set in for some during this film given its plot, the believability of
Franco's performance remains constant and irrefutable. He possesses the
fun-loving and care-free charisma of Ralston then slowly breaks that
shell and shows his human fragility.

Yet remarkably, Boyle leaves a substantial thumbprint on the film, much
of which he shares with co-writer Simon Beaufoy, also of "Slumdog."
Because the story is so straightforward, Boyle recognizes imagery and
perception provide his only means of creativity. He shows us inside the
tube of Ralston's water backpack, water bottle and other close-ups, all
of which seem unnecessary, but they establish images which we will come
to think about with a different perspective as the film wears on, such
as when Aron drinks his own settled urine out of the water pouch. Boyle
uses the same process shot, but suddenly we don't see it the way we did
earlier and they become more meaningful than tedious.

This subtly effective technique can also be found in the beginning and
ending shots of the film. It seems completely random that Boyle would
open with crowded streets of people as if he's tricked us and really
made "Slumdog 2," but the image gains significance after experiencing
Ralston's journey.

"127 Hours" will not be kind to people who don't take lightly to seeing
blood outside of the "shoot 'em up" genre. Many of these people will
leave the film thinking all they got was shock value, but of course
there's much more to it. Despite the "how will he survive?" plot, a
substantial amount of time is placed on flashes to memories Aron thinks
of regarding his family, fantasies and of course, regrets. Boyle
beautifully shows us that although survival seems an inherently selfish
thing, much of that motivation and will to live comes from other
people, even total strangers. Aron thinks a lot of the girls (Kata Mara
and Amber Tamblyn) he hiked with just hours before the accident though
otherwise he'd have likely forgotten them.

The build-up and catharsis of Aron's story might not be the most
powerful and uplifting based-on-true-story you've witnessed, but "127
Hours" clearly surpasses expectation in terms of the message it sends
and the impact it leaves. With it, Boyle solidifies his place as one of
those filmmakers you must always have an eye on and Franco emerges as a
relatable everyman with above-everyman-grade talent.

~Steven C

Visit my site http://moviemusereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
You know, when I first heard about this movie. I didn't really know
what to expect, as all I knew was it was based on a true story about a
guy getting stuck in a canyon due to a boulder. I decided to give it a
shot and well, I was amazed by this movie. Danny Boyle continues to
give us impressive cinematography and incredible performances in his
movie, thanks to James Franco, who plays as Aron Ralston, the mountain
climber who gets stuck under the boulder if you didn't already know.

I'm not going to go into any big spoilers, but it was amazing to see
how the movie builds up to the main plot. After getting stuck under a
boulder for 5 days, you're probably thinking "How is this movie going
to stay entertaining?". Well, we witness some attempts of Aron trying
to get out of the boulder, as well as using the equipment he brought
with him with his backpack to try and survive. He also tries to keep
himself awake so that he can live long enough to not die. When all
normal attempts to escape fail, as a last resort, he does something
very terrifying to get out. When this scene happened, I had to turn
away in parts due to how extreme it was!

With good uses of hallucinations and flashbacks to keep the story
flowing, Danny Boyle has managed to make this movie as realistic as
possible. Great music, great filming, and stunning performance. 127
Hours is a fantastic movie about a real-life incident that may be too
disturbing to watch for some people, but I'd consider it a must see on
all grounds. Definitely worthy of getting nominated for Best Picture at
least surely?
<|_=00=_|>
You have probably heard the story about the man that went canyoneering,
alone, in Utah in 2003, not telling anyone where he was going. Five
days later he emerged out of the Utah canyons, missing an arm. He had
become wedged between a rock and a hard place (literally) and
eventually had to cut his own arm off in order to survive. If you were
like me you probably thought to yourself, "Wow, what an awful
experience, I bet that sucks. Oh well, back to my life." The truth is
that the self amputation handiwork is not even close to what the man,
Aron Ralston, had to go through for the first 124 hours of his ordeal.
Having read "It's Not About the Bike" by Lance Armstrong, I think it is
fair to compare the two stories not only about survivorship but also
about the bigger picture in which we call "life." You have probably
also heard how Armstrong survived testicular cancer to go on to win the
Tour De France seven times. Again you might have thought to yourself
"Wow, he had a small bout with cancer and now everything is all right.
Oh well, back to my life." The severe gravity of these situations don't
settle in until you hear or see the personal stories of what these
individuals endured to earn their lives back. Danny Boyle, is the
director who helped bring Ralston's excruciating story to the screen in
"127 Hours." Boyle, with an eclectic resume including a movie about
heroin addiction ("Trainspotting"), a movie about two youngsters
finding a bag of money ("Millions"), and a Bollywood movie ("Slumdog
Millionaire"), focused on the events that put the viewer in Ralston's
position then made that viewer understand that there was only two ways
out of the cavern.

We start the story with Ralston (played by James Franco) driving out to
the Utah canyons while inconveniently forgetting his Swiss Army knife
at home (he would need that later). He runs into two young female
hikers and introduces them to an underground swimming hole. Not knowing
these are the last two people he will have contact with for quite some
time.

After parting ways with the hikers, Ralston tumbles down a narrow
canyon and his right arm becomes wedged between a small boulder and the
canyon wall. He has the exact same reaction that I would have,
"AGGHHHH!!!" I understood his anger because I too would react in the
same way. I too would not accept my situation. I too would be cursing
at the rock.

Before this movie, I did wonder how Boyle was going to keep us engaged
for the length of the film. It's a hard task considering Ralston was in
one place for five days. Boyle, along with Franco's brilliant acting,
was able to keep us flowing from day to day. Sure there are the flash
back scenes and a few Scooby-Doo induced hallucinations. But, the one
thing that kept my attention was what Ralston actually did while
trapped in the crevice. He had a video camera and he videotaped himself
giving an ultimate gratitude list to his parents and friends. Even in
his dying hours, he wanted his parents to know how he felt about them.
He even went as far as producing a humorous morning talk show with
himself. It was real, and it worked. That video is now in a safety
deposit box where only a few sets of eyes have seen it.

Should you see this movie? Yes, but don't see it because a guy cuts off
his arm to survive. See it because you want a story about why a guy
cuts off his own arm to survive. See it because you need to know the
answer to what you would do if you were in Ralston's predicament. See
it because you are the type of person (to quote an earlier Boyle movie)
to "choose life" and you know deep down inside that there is a force
driving you.
<|_=00=_|>
Danny Boyle has always been an indie favourite, consistently producing 
excellent films in many different genres. However, his films never 
enjoyed the box-office reach they deserved. That is, until his 2008 
surprise blockbuster Slumdog Millionaire broke all expectations. It was 
a film that would then allow Danny Boyle to create whatever film 
project he wanted, with presumably whatever budget he needed. 

This is a dream situation for any director, but instead of taking the 
opportunity to direct a massive budget film, he writes and directs, 127 
Hours. The film, which tells the incredible true story of Aron Ralston, 
could be handled in incredibly different ways. Luckily, Boyle's film 
about a man having to cut off his own arm doesn't leave you feeling 
depressed, but rather it is energetic and life-affirming. The film 
doesn't tone down any of the difficult aspects, in fact it throws them 
right in your face. However, what makes this film so fantastic, is that 
Boyle's style matches Ralston's view on life and explanation for 
surviving the awful ordeal. 

The film begins at a furiously kinetic pace, one you would be hard 
pressed to find in an action film. It is a jolt to the senses and it 
sets the perfect mood for the film. It is not making light of a 
terrible situation but rather putting you in the mind set that Aron 
Ralston was in before the accident occurred. What makes this 
directorial decision so important is the fact that without 
understanding the kind of person he was, we couldn't understand how he 
survived the awful ordeal he was in.

This is what makes Boyle perfect for the material, where another 
director would most likely go very minimalist, Boyle goes all out in 
terms of style, without ever losing the emotional connection. Boyle's 
stylistic choices heighten emotional integrity where as other 
directors' use of style is often just visual stimulation. 

As important Boyle's direction was to making the film great, if it were 
not for James Franco's performance as Aron, the film would have failed. 
Franco gives one of the strongest performances of his career, if not 
his best. His performance could very easily have become showy and 
overly dramatic, yet Franco was smart enough to restrain himself until 
the moment called for dramatics. 

It would be a real shame to forget the unsung heroes of this film, the 
two directors of photography; Enrique Chediak and Anthony Dod Mantle. 
As the film features, for the most part, one man on screen for the 
duration, Boyle decided to make the visuals into their own characters. 
To do this, he employed two fantastic directors of photography to make 
the visuals competing characters. As the film progressed, remembering 
the incredibly impressive shots became harder and harder, to a point 
where I lost count. The film features some of the most memorable shots 
of Boyle's career, many of which leave you wondering how they possibly 
accomplished them.

Danny Boyle has made a career of films about men who are pushed to 
their absolute limits, yet the films always leave you feeling better 
than when you arrived. He does not muddy his films with sentimentality 
or out of place scenes to make the audience feel better, but his films 
still leave you feeling an energy for life. It is his talent of finding 
the strength within people and his natural ability to present it to us 
that makes his films so powerful. 127 Hours is one of the rare films 
that leaves an audience in their seats during the credits, and for 
many, even after the credits are done their scroll.

<|_=00=_|>
A reckless young climber gets stuck in a canyon. For him to get out
requires him to somehow cut off his own arm. And unless you're complete
unaware of the story, you already know the sequence of events that will
be covered during the runtime of this movie. James Franco does his best
with a non existing script and Boyle manages on occasion to give the
movie some thrust with his MTV video style direction. But it soon all
wears off. There's just not much of story here and watching 90 minutes
of something so thin and predictable, just doesn't work. The movie Open
Water came to mind. And that is not a good thing.

4/10
