
Caught this late Friday night with my girl after the Drake gig and had
a good night overall. After being on my feet for hours it was good to
sit on my arse at twelve on the night and just switch off and enjoy a
mindless bit of action. And that's exactly what 'Lockout' offers. If
you've seen Luc Besson's Europacorp action flicks you know what to
expect. I love all of them and this was no exception. Guy Pearce is the
show stealer as Agent Snow, the John McClane of the space age. His
wisecracks and mindless violence keep your attention. Maggie Grace is
as good as ever as the damsel in distress and the supporting actors do
a bang up job as well. Almost stealing the show from Pearce, but not
quite, is Joseph Gilgun as the nutty Scot, sure to make you laugh once
or twice, even if you're hating the film. The effects are well done,
the action over-the-top and exciting and it's overall good late night
entertainment. As with all these sorts of films, I'm sure critics and
serious Sci-fi nuts are going to hate. But as I always say, for people
who can switch off and enjoy a bit of brainless fun, this is a must.
Let the haters hate and the watchers watch.

***/*****.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd skimmed a few reviews inc Ebert's (avoid, even if you skim to the
end, he spoils it) and didn't expect much.

Really enjoyed it. Yes it's a re-tread of Escape from New York but who
cares.

Good pace, strong acting (Pearce is a given but Gulgun the real
revelation - genuinely emotional stuff) Anyone who slates this movie
has lost their inner child (or mid-teen) watch it for what it is, not
for what you think it reminds you of.

Enjoy, and make up your mind before you let others do it for you.

.
<|_=00=_|>
It's fair to say Luc Besson has gotten a bit giddy ever since "Taken."
The man who once upon a time brought us "La Femme Nikita" and "Leon:
The Professional" has instead taken to lighter action fare, in this
case recruiting amateurs James Mather and Stephen St. Leger to help
write and direct his "original idea." Exactlynot a "story by" credit,
but "original idea."

That's not to say "Lockout" isn't creative, but it's definitely not
original. Some might dub it "Taken in space," especially considering it
borrows that film's starlet in Maggie Grace, but it's much more akin to
"Escape from New York in space." Either way, "Lockout" is another
simple- concept action film from Besson, only it has a bigger ego that
gets in the way sometimes.

"Lockout" is good for kicks, a fact of which it's very aware. Guy
Pearce's Snow, the morally questionable and reluctant hero written so
closely to the archetype he almost transcends it, weirdly. He has a
sense of humor best described as abundant (though sometimes quite
clever), and Pearce plays him especially wry; most actors (think
Nicolas Cage) would've hammed it up too much or been unconvincing.

Snow is tasked with rescuing the president's daughter (Grace), who is
stuck on a maximum security prison in space that has incurred a major
security breach. These are the world's most dangerous criminals, plus
they have been in stasis for any number of years, which has made them
even nuttier. Joseph Gilgun as Rydell, one of two Scottish prisoners
trying to run the uprising, is a particularly deranged fellow
reminiscent of a demented Groundskeeper Willie.

Both Rydell and the other main baddie, Alex (Vincent Regan), have a
cold-blooded edge that could have made for an effective R-rated ransom
thriller reminiscent of late '90s films like Air Force One, but the
devil-may-care attitude of the entire movie ultimately clashes with
these darker moments, even though they do make you take the movie more
seriously than you would otherwise.

After a little bit of context at the beginning to properly motivate
Snow, both he and us are effectively shot from a canon. The story only
slows down a bit toward the end, but it mostly plays out as a series of
dominoes. The action doesn't satisfy so much as the pace and the threat
of violence (now here's a good example of how you do PG-13 violence),
but it's well done aside from an opening motorcycle sequence shot on
green screen and outfitted with an effects job that really shows the
budget.

Aside from that, the futuristic sci-fi elements stay pretty
classynothing overdone or distracting. The gadgets provide some
creativity to a number of the sequences and the script manages to
inject some unpredictability into a story that could not have a more
obvious trajectory.

Despite the self-awareness at points, with a lot of that credit going
to Pearce, Lockout tries especially hard to be entertaining on too many
fronts, aspiring to be the consummate popcorn flick rather than just
identifying one tone and sticking with it. The final scene on the space
prison strangely evokes the original "Star Wars" Death Star run, as if
to make sure the audience gets to munch on some sci fi/fantasy before
the credits roll.

It's hard to fault "Lockout" for aiming to please considering that that
spirit seems to be the driving force behind the movie's strengths as
well as its weaknesses. Although the number of attempts at humor might
catch some folks off guard, "Lockout" offers what anyone interested in
the film would expect, if for no other reason than its built upon tons
of tropes from previously effective movies. In turn, "Lockout" is
effective, but not too much more.

~Steven C

Thanks for reading! Check out moviemusereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this fun thriller, especially Guy Pearce as a wise-cracking
agent sent to rescue the President's daughter from outer-space prison,
where she's been making a charity visit.

There's lots of humour (especially in the first scenes - it's like
Pearce is doing a Philip Marlowe impression) and the action is
non-stop. 

I was a bit puzzled that the inmates in America's top-security prison
all seemed to be from Glasgow and that it seemed to be co-starring
George Galloway, but the performances are great. Pearce is really cool
and the psycho prisoner acts his socks off. 

If you're used to watching thrillers, you'll guess a lot of the plot
turns but overall I believe it deserves to be getting a lot better
reviews. Overall, it was great fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I was kind of inclined to headline this as being the movie guaranteed
to make highbrow film fans froth with incredulity. That anyone could
enjoy such a derivative, tongue-in-cheek, low ambition piece of
schlock, is surely cause for venomous spleen venting from the serio
film brigade. They call them guilty pleasures, but thing is, I just
don't feel guilty about having such a wonderfully fun filled great time
with the Luc Besson produced Lockout.

Plot? Well it's the future and basically Guy Pearce (Snow) is wrongly
convicted of a crime and sentenced to do stir in stasis until whenever.
But up in space at the MS1 prison facility, home to all the maniacs
found in Demolition Man, the president's daughter, do-gooder babe
Emilie Warnock (Maggie Grace), is suddenly taken captive and it's a big
hostage situation. This looks like a mission for a serious hard bastard
type! Well Snake Plissken wasn't available, so they get Snow, who is
bulked up, full of wise cracks and has a point to prove. Guess what
follows? Yep, complete popcorn frenzy as Pearce and Grace cut a swathe
through MS1 and have a date with coolness personified.

On the way, via a truly gorgeous sci-fi affected Blu-ray print, we will
tick off the homages and influences and compare notes with our viewing
partners about how it's a Snake Plissken movie but with Shane Black
type dialogue. While those who are partial to a bit of sci-fi design
are well served here. Because even though there might be the worst CGI
effects ever during a chase scene (that mercifully only runs for 50
seconds), the space ships, sets and Torsion System sequence, prove that
you don't need Michael Bay type bucks to please the eyes. From the
quite brilliant and hilarious opening interrogation beat down, to the
big reveal and punch line, this Besson produced piece is serving
popcorn with a smile to a certain segment in the film watching
populace.

With bits of the Snake Plissken movies, Fortress, Die Hard, Commando,
Demolition Man, Minority Report, Last Boy Scout and any other quip
laden dude/wronged man on a mission movie, Lockout clearly lacks
originality. But seriously! Was anyone involved playing it as anything
other than a sly homage movie? No, they wasn't. Pearce is great fun in
the role, but he isn't trying to worry the highbrow crowd's votes for
films of the year. Anyone viewing it expecting something cerebral
should feel more guilty than those who stand up to say they had a great
time watching it. Ingem Ferem. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Come on people, watch it for what it is. Yes it's silly, it's supposed
to be. It looks great and slides down easy. Guy Pearce is a blast to
watch as he struts and mouths off throughout the film in a manner I
haven't seen since Bruce Willis in the Last Boy Scout. This is an 80's
action movie at it's core set in space. One of failures of recent
action movies trying to be an 80's action flick is that they forgot
that the hero needs to go up against a memorable villain. In this we
get 2 brothers that actually deliver the goods. Add in a fancy Star
Wars inspired ending and you have fine Friday night escape.

Don't think too hard and enjoy the trip.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, Lockout is not meant to be taken seriously. It is a fun
action sci-fi movie that breaks the boundaries of what it physically
possible. Remember when you were a kid playing with your little action
figures in the sandbox, well that is how they designed Lockout. They
forgot about what is real and what can actually be done and simply had
fun.

Guy Pearce is hilarious and teamed up with Maggie Grace the laughs just
keep rolling. It is an action, sci-fi, comedy that is amazingly well
crafted if you can take your thinking cap off and just have fun. There
are a few plot twists, but nothing you didn't see coming. While Lockout
doesn't really bring anything completely new to the table, it is very
entertaining and well worth multiple viewings.

Due to mixed reviews I did not expect much, but Lockout really
impressed me with its style and fast paced action. Other reviews has
said that the special effects looked terrible, that is simply because
of the style. One thing Lockout has is style and solid direction and
cinematography. They knew what they were doing with this movie and they
pulled it off perfectly.

The PQ & AQ were great on Blu-ray and while the special features were
lacking, it is still a solid Blu-ray release.

Recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
I found this to be a great, fun, well-acted, funny, and "unique" take
on the typical action films of our our past. I say "unique", because it
is not, in any way, unique. I give that the setting is something new,
but all in all, this movie pulls from great movies past, and in doing
so, made off with a seasoned, enjoyable film.

Guy Pearce was flawless and oddly fresh as the standard "I don't care"
action hero. The Snake Plisken-gone right character was the driving
point of the whole film, and definitely the best part. Maggie Grace
pulls off her best performance yet, even well above her LOST and Taken
characterization, showing that a "Taken"-style damsel doesn't have to
be in distress. The villains were all over the board in this film, with
neither one taking complete center stage. All of them equally hold the
necessary torch for the situation. 

This is a story that has been told before, but in a new way that is
fresh and fun. The acting makes this movie truly what it is, and with
solid action, and excellent pace, I believe this subtle action film may
be the best yet of the year (future films not comparable).
<|_=00=_|>
If you are looking for a film to pass (or waste) the time and don't
want anything mentally challenging, this film is for you. It's not
nearly as gory as it could have been (and that's not a complaint). The
film does not tell us much about the characters' backstories, but
somehow you don't really care--this is a film about dueling
stereotypes.

The point of the film is that the characters are supposed to get
through a veritable obstacle course filled with villains, to arrive at
a rescue point, but in the film, you never have any real idea if they
are getting any closer, or indeed, where they are in relation to their
destination. The film also sets up various time limits--a race against
the clock--but never gives you a real sense of a countdown.

The actual means of escape is so preposterous and scientifically
impossible it's not even worth thinking about.

The acting was adequate. The script and direction had serious problems.
This might be fine for background noise on the TV at home, when you
don't really have the time or inclination to pay attention to it. I
would not recommend that anyone go to a theatre and pay money to see
this, as it is on the low end of mediocre.
<|_=00=_|>
Unusual in what way, you might ask.

Well, typically, films that do the celluloid equivalent of saying
"Physics, Schmysics!" do not sit well with me. There is just something
about abuse of the natural laws that really winds me up.

Lockout does this on a few occasions, most notably at the end with the
re-entry scene, but at intervals throughout.

The thing is, I was finding the movie so enjoyably stupid, that it
didn't annoy me! This is a rare event. I was entirely able to overlook
the abuse of physics because the rest of the movie was.... fun! I won't
pretend it is a masterpiece. It has plenty of flaws. But the film as a
whole made me ignore its failings and just enjoy it.

There are some truly (and I mean this sincerely) god-awful CGI effects
in the opening scenes that had me wondering if I had made a terrible
mistake in sitting down to watch it. But once past that, the general
"doesn't-take-itself-seriously-at-all" nature of the film reassured me
to the point where I actually enjoyed it.

Some films take themselves too seriously and I am always ready to slap
them down if they ignore basic things. But Lockout never did take
itself for anything but silly entertainment and, as a result, it works.
At least it did for me.

Part Taken, a lot of Escape from LA. Throw in larger than life
characters and actors that are happy to ham it up a little and you have
a fun little film.

At the box-office it did poorly, though I'm not entirely sure why. It
will probably sink into obscurity in the years to come but, for now,
its a fun ride.
