
The three musketeers, and by god am I disappointed. I mean don't get me
wrong I excepted a simple story with typical elements, nice fight
scenes and a great cast that can act great. Except for the actually
really cool looking fights I didn't get anything, the cast is great but
the dialogs and script are so horrible even Christoph Waltz couldn't
save them. The story is all over the place, you don't get to know any
of the musketeers, or barely a character at all and the biggest
problem: A movie doesn't have to be realistic for me but it has to make
sense in his own universe of the movie (like Matrix its not realistic
but logical). The three musketeers plays with the rules of physics,
logic and sense of a human being like they were beanbags. Oh and
surprise surprise: 3D is useless, but thats nothing new tell me a movie
that really had to have 3D except for avatar or maybe tron.

Movie with a simple plot fine , one that makes no sense at all, you
better don't count on my vote.

So if you can enjoy a pointless excuse of a story for some nice
swordplay, have fun.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all I ought to note that I did not expect much of this film -
and yet was left completely underwhelmed. 

There are some major issues regarding this film which I would like to
address, they are the reason for my extraordinarily low ranking, which
would have been even lower if I had not thought it disrespectful to
those actors who did their job very well (against all odds).

One may argue that screen adaptations require some changes to be made
to the original material, and I wholeheartedly agree, but the changes
made to this particular adaption are so fundamental they might as well
not have bothered to call it The Three Musketeers". There is as good
as nothing left of the original plot in this movie, and what is left of
it is changed beyond recognition. I did expect it to be more action
laden than ultimately necessary, I expected it to deviate from the
original plot, but nothing could possibly have prepared me for this
shipwreck of a film. 

One might think that while a film shouldn't be required to follow the
book's plot word by word to qualify for bearing the title of a famous
novel - one should be able to tell it is supposed to be based on said
novel, right? Apparently not. Apart from the title and the the names of
the characters, there is but little that would betray it to be even
roughly based on Dumas' novel. Buckingham is turned from lover to evil
Lord, and Queen Anne into a blameless little lamb who fell prey to the
Cardinal's machinations. No such thing as the fleur-de-lis is even
mentioned. Constance doesn't only not die, she isn't even threatened by
Milady. And that's just a selection. 

One might be led to think it was deliberately conceived as a parody of
remakes. After all, it has all the ingredients  a butchered plot,
characters with any debt taken out of them (despite the fact that if
given the chance, most actors would have delivered an outstanding
performance, but the time usually assigned to character development is
devoured by sexy" scenes featuring Milla Jovovich  who herself is a
whole other problem), references to everything from the Matrix to
Mission Impossible, goodness  it even has airships. 

Airships. Not one, not two, but an entire armada of airships. I
understand that Rocheford's eye patch is tempting, but they might as
well have put a parrot on his shoulder, it would not have managed to
make it appear any more ridiculous. I was surprised they did not
venture to release an air Kraken. 

If this film had had less Milla Jovovich, no airships and if anyone had
bothered to actually read "The Three Musketeers" beforehand, it might
have been decent - and had they fixed some minor problems (like the
annoyingly clean costumes and settings), it may even have been great.
It certainly had the potential. It's a pity it nuked the fridge... or
should I say - flew the airship?
<|_=00=_|>
I actually expected this movie to be bad based on the previews, and
after the first 5 minutes, which were kind of entertaining, I thought
"maybe this won't be so bad". But every attempt at humor is completely
dry, and the story is told in the worst way possible. Aside from the
opening scene, everything added to the story in an attempt to make it
different from the standard Three Musketeer plot is completely lame.
And even Orlando Bloom acted like a rookie! I don't know how on earth
this managed to get financed. If you want some real entertainment,
watch the 1993 version, in which Tim Curry is the best evil Cardinal
ever!
<|_=00=_|>
Before I start writing down my impressions of this movie, I have to say
that "The Three Musketeers" is one of my all-time favourite books. When
I heard that a new Three Musketeers film was going to be released, I
was really excited - all the more when I saw pictures of the beautiful
locations in Bavaria and read that Christoph Waltz ("Inglorious
Basterds") would play my favourite character Richelieu. When I saw the
trailer though, I was shocked: Matrix style bullet evasion? A Ninja
diver? And... zeppelin air ships? WTF? I was sure Dumas was rotating in
his grave over this mutilation done to his work! Really... I don't
think a brilliant story like The Three Musketeers needs air ships in
order to be exciting.

Despite my frustration about the trailer, I decided to go to the cinema
and I have to say, it was certainly not a total waste of time and
money. First of all, the costumes and locations were extremely
enjoyable. I watched the movie in 2D, but viewers will surely
appreciate the 3D version. There are some nice effects like a bird's
view onto a painted map of France.

Most of the actors also did a great job, especially Christoph Waltz. He
was amazing, just like I had always imagined Richelieu: this cool
composure he has when something is not going according to his plans,
but you can see how his brilliant brain is working on something new
already. I also liked his interaction with the Louis XIII. The King was
portrayed in a very exaggerated manner (clueless about politics, only
interested in fashion and very childish), but this ironic exaggeration
of his character created a lot of fun. Orlando Bloom was also great as
Buckingham. You could see how he was enjoying himself in the role of
the classy, spoiled and evil British ambassador. Logan Lerman as
d'Artagnan surprised me positively. I thought he was just another
boyish actor teenage girls will fall in love with. But he made a really
good d'Artagnan and was able to show off his fencing abilities.
Apparently all the fencing choreographies were done without the help of
ropes or stuntmen - Respect! The final duel between Rochefort and
d'Artagnan on the roof of Notre Dame was epic. It's a pity there wasn't
more sword fighting instead of zeppelins. The actors of Athos, Porthos
and Aramis also did a pretty good job, but had too little screen time
and thus ended up as flat characters with only one trait of character
each (Athos = the disillusioned drunkard, who has lost his love,
Porthos = the vain daredevil, Aramis = the religious ladies' man). The
musketeers as the title heroes really should be at the centre of the
plot, but in this movie Milady and Buckingham got much more attention.

Too much attention in the case of Milady. First of all, Milla Jovovich
is not a good actress. Neither is she especially sexy, as the movie
constantly tries to suggest. But I guess these factors don't play much
of a role if you are married to the director... Secondly, I've always
hated all these historical novels or films where "emancipated" women do
stuff they just wouldn't have done in the century the plot is set in.
And no, I'm pretty sure a woman of the 17th century would not have
stripped on the roof of the palace and bungee jumped down. And no, she
would not be able to win a sword fight against several Cardinal's
Guards. And no group of three 17th century soldiers would have allowed
a woman (in a huge gown not made for running) to draw the gunfire onto
herself, so that they can go safe after she has activated the trap
There were more anachronisms like that, the most obvious one being the
air ships, but I won't even start ranting about them. The second most
annoying anachronism was the portrayal of Rochefort: At the beginning,
d'Artagnan challenges him to a duel, but Rochefort just shoots him
before he can draw his sword. Outrageous for a 17th century nobleman!
If there is one important ingredient you mustn't forget in a
cloak-and-sword-film, it's the code of honour: you fight your enemy,
but you're always noble and fair. The movie almost completely lacked
this element. Also, why the heck does a Musketeer movie need a "Mission
Impossible" scene with Milady climbing though a network of invisible
wires? And why can d'Artagnan, after just one audience, stroll through
the palace gardens with the King? Why does Buckingham accuse the King
of wearing "retro style"?  Even the soundtrack was anachronistic
sometimes, when it suddenly changed from classical Hans-Zimmer-style to
Pulp-Fiction-style  very irritating!

But the anachronisms are not the only logical flaws in the movie: How
did the French build an air ship in one week? (How do they fly and how
are they steered anyway?) Why would a royal ship use a skeleton as a
figurehead? (Answer: so that you get the Pirates of the Caribbean
style) Why do the musketeers first try to get into the tower vault in
order to get the diamonds, but then Athos suddenly knows that the
diamonds won't be there anyway, but with Milady? How does Milady
survive a fall of like 100 metres?

Well, perhaps you should just switch off the logical part of your
brain, when you go to see this movie! All in all, I had great fun
watching it together with some friends. In the end it was better than I
feared after seeing the trailers, but the sad thing is: it was worse
than it could have been! All the ingredients for a great historical
movie were there: excellent actors, beautiful locations and one of the
best novels ever written as the basis! However, they just messed around
too much with that great novel. You just can't improve a perfect story
(not even with air ships), you can only make it worse.
<|_=00=_|>
I actually liked this movie. I've seen many musketeer movies through
the years and this one wasn't the best one in my opinion but it was
certainly not the worst either. It has a lot of adventure and cool
scenes with good special effects.

I did not expect to see Milla Jovovich in a movie like this but she
really pulled it off. And it was pretty nice seeing Orlando Bloom
playing a villain for a change, I've had the feeling that he always
plays the a character with same qualities in almost every movie (Lord
of the Rings, Pirates of the Caribbean, Kingdom of Heaven etc).

This movie is much more adventurous and wild than the '93 version and
in my opinion these two can't really be compared because they are made
for different audiences. All in all this is a great movie to watch
together with your friends.
<|_=00=_|>
I feel a little sorry to be so critical of this movie, because I
thought some of the performances were fine, especially Matthew McFadyen
and Ray Stevenson. Alas, Logan Lerman and Milla Jovovich were rather
unconvincing in their roles, sucking to varying degrees. While one or
two of the 3D scenes worked very well, notably the duel on the top of
Notre Dame, the 3D was at its most effective for the credits and some
of the other on-screen text. While it did add to the movie, it did not
add quite enough to compensate for the other downsides. In the end, the
irony is that the movie used 3D technology to depict two dimensional
characters.

Perhaps the best parts of the movie were the opening prologue and the
early scenes in Paris; thereafter it was all downhill, with the hill
getting steeper as the movie progressed. It was apparent that the
scriptwriters had either read the book or seen some earlier Musketeer
movies, but equally apparent that they had either not understood the
story or had decided they knew better than Dumas. Making Buckingham the
villain was very ill-judged, and they should have made better use of
the Cardinal (and Waltz). Most of this I could have lived with, but
what brought the whole edifice crashing down was the nonsensical
video-game sequences, featuring ridiculous flying ships that flouted
most of the laws of physics (Newtonian and Einsteinian). I think these
annoyed me more than the horrendous CGI in the last Indiana Jones
movie.

The really frustrating thing is that this could have been an
entertaining film; it looked great and had a sound cast. It seemed to
me that the director may either have been influenced by childhood
over-exposure to the Teletubbies, or that the need to make use of 3D
forced the story in a truly stupid direction. I suspect the latter is
closer to the truth, and this is what killed 3D last time, i.e. letting
the technology drive the script in increasingly bizarre directions.

It would be easier to forgive some of the movie's faults were its crime
not so great, i.e. trashing one of the all-time classic adventure
stories!
<|_=00=_|>
There is a saying that goes by the words "Don't fix it if it ain't
broke". While there has been umpteen re-makes of the classic novel by
Alexandre Dumas, this latest adaptation is not one that Dumas would be
proud of. Rather, this film is a desecration of fine prose and the
resting place of Dumas himself. The logic defying script expects the
viewer to suspend reality with ships that fire cannons while sailing
through the air, Ninja styled breach and entry, a "Mission Impossible"
styled heist and exotic weaponry, all within the confines of what was
supposed to be the renaissance period of 17th century France.

I have found this movie mostly disappointing, starting with the totally
unnecessary satire in the script. It is one thing to inject a little
comedy, but where is the need to make a parody of one the most widely
translated works of literature? Played by Logan Lerman, D'Artagnan sets
out to become a musketeer and arrives in Paris to find the famed trio
Athos (Matthew Macfadyen), Aramis (Luke Evans) and Porthos (Ray
Stevenson) disbanded and de-commissioned by Cardinal Richelieu
(Christoph Waltz). After a bravado skirmish with the Cardinal's guards,
the young but inexperienced King Louis XIII (Freddie Fox) reinstates
Athos, Aramis and Porthos to their former rank and even has D'Artagnan
join them for good measure. The awesome foursome then discovers the
Cardinal's deadly plot to overthrow the King. By employing Athos's
former lover the beautiful but deadly assassin M'lady De Winter (Milla
Jovovich), the Cardinal fabricates infidelity between the Queen (Juno
Temple) and England's Duke of Buckingham (Orlando Bloom). By doing so,
the devious cardinal plots to unleash war on the European Continent,
and in the process plans to dispose the King and Queen of France, while
acquiring the throne of France for himself. It is now up to the (four)
musketeers to prevent France and England from plunging into war by
stopping M'lady De Winter from executing the Cardinals evil plan.

With a budget of US$ 100 million, Alexandre Dumas' complex plot is
simplified for this movie but hugely amplified with visual effects and
3 D. The effects are literally blown out of proportion while 3 D does
not appear to have served its purpose. In comparison, the 1993 title
still holds its ground with a lowly budget of US$17 million. The very
obvious difference is in the screenplay. In adapting for film, both
versions have strayed from the book, but there is still a lot of focus
on the story in the 1993 version. With this 2011 remake, director and
co-producer Paul .W. S. Anderson has unwisely sacrificed an engaging
and all time favorite work of fiction for a very expensive piece of
cannon fodder. There is a legend behind the story of the three
musketeers and it stands for valor and honor, the protection of king
and country and the defense of justice by fighting corruption. Sadly,
none of this is even remotely brought to light in Anderson's version.
Having previously worked with Milla Jovovich on the zombie infested
"Resident Evil" franchise, Anderson sticks to his guns with flamboyant
action and goes to the extent of throwing in blades, explosives,
zeppelins and yes, fancy fencing . To an extent, creativity in adapting
for the screen is always appreciated. However, by overdoing it Anderson
has paid a very heavy price as he has not only overlooked core elements
of the story, he has also not given due detail to any of the
characters. Who were the three musketeers? What made them famous? Why
have they pledged alliance to a young and weak King? Regrettably,
Andrew Davies and Alex Litvak's screenplay does not justify a franchise
re-boot by avoiding early origins of the musketeers and the trio's
prominence in the French Monarchy.

For a period piece set in the 17th century, costumes, props and sets
seem to be convincing. But what do I know; I haven't been alive for the
last 400 years. Although Anderson scores in this area, he fails again
with the totally uninspired acting. Lerman plays a hot-headed
D'Artagnan, but not with the same passion as portrayed by actors before
him. As the titled musketeers, I just could not feel that patriotic
vibe from Macfadyen, Evans and Stevenson. As Buckingham, Bloom oozes
with cool and makes a grand entrance but his screen time is limited, so
don't expect too much swashbuckling as his roles in "Pirates of the
Caribbean". Jovovich is the same as ever, only here she does not have
zombies to kill. My biggest disappointment is the underused Christoph
Waltz. We have seen before how fearsome a villain he can be as the
conniving and scheming Col. Landa in Tarantino's "Inglorious Basterds".
Yet somehow Waltz fails to maintain that same intensity. It becomes all
the more disappointing because the Cardinal is supposedly a central yet
treacherous character, but in this film he doesn't appear to be so.
Perhaps it all boils down to the script again although I was expecting
more from Waltz in comparison to the rest of the actors, as he could
have actually been the film's saving grace.

At the end of it all, this latest adaptation will not be worth
remembering and will go down as a half-baked attempt at remaking a
movie that has been made too many times. In my book, the 1993 version
still rules!
<|_=00=_|>
It would have been nice if this Mila Jovavich vehicle had anything
remotely to do with the original Dumas masterpiece, but alas, it seems
too much to ask of Hollywood's dread cash hounds, who, like some sort
of anti-Jesus, can magically transform the finest of wine into sh*t.

I hope the angry ghost of Dumas defecates in their mouths as they sleep
for foisting this god awful mess upon us. The only reason it merited
any stars is because Ms. Jovavich is stunning, and the special effects
were pretty. These were barely enough to rescue my PC from death by
stomping after watching about half of this outrage.

If you find yourself about to watch - save yourself!
<|_=00=_|>
Silly movie this one but not boring. It cost $75M and it shows. There
are huge problems though.

First of all we deal with a classic here, so it has a legacy that must
be respected. In this version, every character is presented as a
buffoon. The acting, the deliverance...

Leonardo da Vinci, we learn, has drawn up plans for a flying "war
machine," a combination of dirigible and seafaring galleon. The plot
and the dialogs are full of hot air like the war machine. The director
is obviously thought that these were minor issues!

The action is dominated by green-screen and Matrix-like effects.

Overall: Not boring if you are 9 y.o. but a disgrace nevertheless...
<|_=00=_|>
"After failing in a scheme to steal Leonardo Da Vinci's airship
blueprints, the Musketeers..."

Seriously, the writer of "Predators" and the director of "Resident
Evil" decided that Alexander Dumas masterpiece was not good enough...
so they decided to add "Leonardo Da Vinci's airship" and make some
other "improvements" on this horrid joke of a movie. I stopped watching
when I saw Countess D'Winter sword-fighting and spinning on the wire
rig. I wondered how long before the zombies would show up. 

As a lover of literature, I can't stand those Hollywood adaptations.
Like when someone decided to cast Robert Downey Jr as Sherlock Holmes
and also ignored that the detective from Baker Street never before
touched a firearm and sent the most brilliant detective ever imagined
on a shooting spree around London. 

Anyway, it isn't hard to understand why this $75,000,000 piece of
garbage flopped in the box office. This shows that the public is not as
stupid as we may think. Vox populi, vox Dei.
