
It's not hard to put together a monster film. You throw one insane guy
together with a hero, and add a car chase. The Ledge is nothing like
this, and that's why it's so impressive.

The main struggle is between a Christian with extreme beliefs, and an
Atheist who just wants out. Uniquely, it's the only film I can think of
that has an openly atheist hero and an A-list cast. And ironically, the
few people who have complained about this show exactly what the film is
trying to portray: that some people are so intolerant of atheism that
even one movie among the thousands in history is too much for them.

To me, the star of this film is Patrick Wilson, who plays the
fundamentalist. Instead of becoming a monster, his portrayal links
completely normal passions like love and protection and revenge that we
can all identify with, but then takes it to the natural conclusion,
egged on by his convictions that anything he decides to do must be
blessed.

Thus the central thesis of the film -- that belief can go too far -- is
played out on a small stage. This is a drama of just 6 people, but the
intricate explosions between them pull at the heartstrings far more
effectively than a car chase in an action film would. We hear so much
about the dangers of religion in big stories like 9-11, gay rights, and
abortion rights. Here is a film about the dangerous of religion in the
everyday, the dramas so commonplace that everyone who watches can find
something in their own lives to compare it with.

Sure, I've never walked out onto The Ledge. But something about the
masterful writing and acting in this film creates an authenticity that
is undeniable.

Go ahead. Rant against atheism. Show us how intolerant you are. Violent
words and deeds are the response of someone backed into a corner,
desperate not to lose it all, just like "Joe" is in this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I've just seen this film tonight at the Sundance Film Festival. It was
the first film on my Sundance list because I had a chance to meet Chris
Gorham at another screening a few months ago, and he's been talking
about it.

I was concerned, however, as I started seeing very mixed reviews. As I
walked in I was prepared to be bored, preached at, and left with a very
predictable life-affirming message. Boy, was I ever wrong.

Let's start with the talent. Gavin, Charlie Hunnam looking like a cross
between a young Ryan O'Neal and the late Heath Ledger (complete with
fake American accent), eats up most of the screen time, and he's
neither hero (a man who falls in love) nor villain (a man who destroys
a marriage). That's a sign of a complex character, because real life is
seldom black or white. You like him enough, though, not to want him to
die. Terrence Howard is predictably good though his character is a
little flat compared to the others, Liv Tyler -- who I've never been a
fan of before -- turned in a fantastic multi-dimensional performance.
Christopher Gorham, as Gavin's roommate, makes a fine showing as well,
despite there being very little of it. (Any more of Chris's story would
have seemed a forced, unnecessary subplot.) The standout performance, I
thought, came from Patrick Wilson as Tyler's Christian fundamentalist
husband. For the first half hour I was distracted by the fact that he's
a Will Arnett doppelganger, but by the end of the movie he's become
frighteningly snakelike.

You expect the Christian extremist to be the bad guy, the evil one. But
that's not what happens. Of course he's the bad guy, and yes, he's got
views that many people won't agree with, but, through the good writing
and his performance, I admired his passion, and even though I didn't
agree with his rigid views, I felt his incredible pain as he discovers
his wife's infidelity. Some of the folks I was with considered his
character over the top, and it is definitely extreme complete with
profuse sweating, but you don't really know what direction he's going
to turn next, and that's an interesting villain. By the end of the
movie my sympathy for him was gone, but I like the fact that he had
enough layers that I could feel his pain and hate him at the same time.

The movie certainly made me think, there's a lot of religious and
philosophical discussion, but more impact was made by all the pure
emotion going on. In case you might think it too cerebral, there was
plenty of tension along the way. Like every other scene in the movie,
as Gavin stands on the ledge you have no idea which way it might go. In
the end, Gavin makes a choice, one life over another, that he faced
years before, and this time he makes the "right" choice, at least in
his heart. It is not a story about an atheist versus a Christian,
anymore than it is really a story about a guy standing on a ledge. And
let's not leave out some of the lovely scenes between Tyler & Hunnam as
their relationship grows. The film, told mostly in flashback, is quite
the emotional roller coaster until it rolls clean off the tracks.

I'm looking forward to seeing it play on IFC so I can appreciate the
nuances a little more without being too concerned about the outcome.
Matthew Chapman definitely has a lot to say (as he did at the post-film
Q&A), and I'm eager to see his next move.
<|_=00=_|>
First off I am an atheist, so I was anxiously awaiting this. I have
actually been experiencing old friends and family coming to me asking
what happened to make me lose my faith. Nothing I say over and over
then launch in to explaining everything again. This movie was
phenomenal and now I can say "hey you know what, go watch the ledge"

I thought all the characters seemed believable, both in their lines and
beliefs. The storytelling bounces around a bit which I love, it allows
you to make assumptions and try to figure everything out before its
revealed.

I thoroughly enjoyed watching The Ledge, and I plan on buying it on DVD
so I can lend it to people. I can only hope that this does alright and
more atheist protagonists are created.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a preview of The Ledge two months ago and instantly thought it is
the beginning of a whole new genre of film that gets away from the
cliché world of most films. It explores nuances of life, ethics, love
and religion that are not easily classified. While it is a thriller, it
is also much more. If you are not thinking about this movie for days or
weeks after, you probably weren't watching. I challenge you to put
yourself into each of the characters and recognize how powerful world
views can influence decisions and behavior. Of all the characters, I
thought the policeman and his life dilemma was most compelling. It
seems to tie the whole movie together. I think the final scene of the
movie was a little weak and may have actually detracted from the
overall effect. I would have done the ending a little different but it
is a small quibble over a great viewing experience but that is why it
gets a 9 instead of a full 10. The fact that I am writing this review
two months after seeing the preview is testament to the impact it can
have.
<|_=00=_|>
I think the harsh criticisms of the film are outright ridiculousalong
with the excessive accolades. From a basic film critique: The Ledge
definitely delivers on maintaining tension/suspense. I think the
subtleties here (e.g., Liv Tyler's anti-make-up "make-up") will cause
people to feel uncomfortable, but without knowing that it's all
intentional.

There is a massive delusion among Christians that fundamentalism and
religiously inspired bigotry only manifest in a small percentage of
extremists. This just isn't true. If it was, I'd feel dramatically
safer and more comfortable in public discussing atheism with a
stranger!

The atmosphere is very realistic, and the uncomfortable (at times)
dialog is accurate to the reality of proselytism in the guise of
philosophical discussion. The movie even captures how many atheists
feel when observing prayer, and this is very rare to see in the spot
light. 

I really wasn't convinced by any of the characters' back-stories. They
seemed unnecessarily extreme in a movie that is driven by its
subtleties. They really contrasted with the rest of the writing, and
broke the illusion of realism. I also didn't find the acting convincing
on this level. In particular: Given Shauna's history, she seemed to be
unrealistically open and trusting towards Gavintheir interactions felt
a bit contrived and very rushed. 

Unfortunately the film doesn't explore its topics at much depth, while
presenting more rudimentary/common arguments. However, this only added
realism to the dialog for me. I feel it has more intellectually to
offer symbolically than literally. 

The Ledge displays a psychological perspective of an atheist through
its atmosphere, and that alone makes it unique and worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
I have rarely seen such an understated, effective movie before. Parts
of the movie can be seen as completely predictable, but wait for
it...think about it. I walked out of this movie thinking I could take
it at face value and yet it nags me, makes me think. It demands
attention, and discussion.

I have a tear in my mind, I'm slightly outraged; no predictable film
should have such an effect on me. And yet...

Viewers of the film may nitpick the details, but they must stop at the
fringes to be concerned with the superficial-alities. The meat of the
film lies in debate and action - what the characters do, not blowing
things up kind of action. Are you willing to put action to your most
devout beliefs?

Fine acting, a fine plot; I wholeheartedly recommend this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie tonight and really enjoyed it. The plot is
gripping, full of pathos, and well executed. I thought the acting was
excellent and the dialogue thought provoking. Charlie Hunnam and Liv
Tyler delivered outstanding performances. I felt like I've met all
these people in other guise in my life, and they were all very human.

Unlike most modern cinema, rather than skirting the big issues of
philosophy and meaning this movie tackles the hard questions head on.
It was very refreshing to see how these ideas interacted with the
characters and their motivations. I really don't want to give it away.
Go see it, make your own decision.
<|_=00=_|>
It has been called the Brokeback Mountain for atheists, but the new
Matthew Chapman film, The Ledge is not a film about atheism at all. It
is a suspenseful story about life and death, love and loss.

Over all, I think The Ledge is a very entertaining mainstream movie
with some great theological discussions mixed in. You don't have to be
an atheist to enjoy this film any more than you have to be a Catholic
to enjoy the movie, The Exorcist. But if you are an atheist, you might
enjoy some of the discussions between Gavin and Joe a little more than
most.

I loved the complexity of the characters and how I was able to identify
with each one at one point or another in the film. I could even
sympathize with Joe, who is at first not a likable character throughout
much of the film. I loved the suspense and the great conversations
between all the characters.
<|_=00=_|>
Recently, I posted a piece about Matthew Chapman, the great-grandson of
Charles Darwin, who has recently made a film with more than a hint of
Atheism at its core; The Ledge (http://tonyryan.org.uk/?p=530)

I finally managed to watch this, and must say that even if I wasn't an
atheist I would definitely have enjoyed it. It's a tightly paced
thriller, with excellent performances from all involved, especially
Patrick Wilson and Charlie Hunnam. A small cast, and a low budget do
not a cheap film make, and with these restrictions Chapman has done an
excellent job of making a movie with a message that is neither preachy
nor boring.

I won't spoil the film by discussing the plot, but from the synopsis
and trailer it's pretty obvious what the film is about. What makes it
entertaining, rather than just the story, is the interaction between
the characters and the way in which you are engaged with them as an
outsider looking in.

If you're based in the UK, this film is hard to come by, but these
instructions from the producer can help get the film seen by a wider
international audience:

"the film is available internationally now, but BY REQUEST, so here's
how to get theatres to request it! I just put up some instructions at
http://ledgemovie.com/how_?to_help/ , and thank you for any help you
can give!
<|_=00=_|>
I had seen some poor reviews of this, most being along the lines of
"too much religious mumbo-jumbo," or "too much to think about." So I
wasn't sure what to expect. But I have to say, I was really surprised
by this movie.

I love that format of story-telling with the climax at the start, and
then having all the blanks filled in throughout. I thought that all the
characters were very believable and they are introduced in ways that
you can find yourself in their shoes almost immediately. Nobody was
one-dimensional. I did not get a "of course the Fundamental Christian
is the bad guy" vibe I had heard a lot about either. It seemed more to
me to show the idea that even people considered well-grounded (by
themselves and others) can be driven to extreme action when faced with
the unexpected.

The only negative thing I have to say is that it felt sometimes like
the main character's personality fell back on the "Atheists are just
bitter people who are mad a God" shtick. Though alternately I did like
the symbolism in his demise. That despite his Atheism, he was willing
to put aside his ideas to protect and comfort those around him when
they needed it. And at the end, he basically became a symbol of Jesus,
sacrificing himself to save another and asking that those he leaves
behind become better people. (though I'm probably reaching quite a bit
to have found that conclusion, I admit)

Overall, I recommend this movie. It was thought-provoking, emotional
and complex. Very nice.
