
Not much to say that hasn't been alreadyÂ… the critics are right, it is
an effective slick movie that may be a bit slight as far as character
development but doesn't suffer too badly for it. This is a movie far
more about ideas than people and that is not necessarily a bad thing. 

Excellent direction from Soderbergh, masterful cinematography, and
while there are a few logical mis-steps, the writing more than makes up
for that by confounding expectations more than once in truly creative
and credible ways. 

Unfortunately trailers have many seeking an action thrill-ride, when
what it delivers for the most part is a slow boiling suspenseful drama.
When will Hollywood learn that setting expectations that don't match
the product may sell a few extra tickets in the beginning, but hurts
word of mouth and user reviews which are needed for the success of a
film beyond the opening weekend.
<|_=00=_|>
Stephen Soderbergh's latest direction, "Contagion" (2011), even though
bringing less than expected excitement, is an absorbing movie to watch,
efficient as a social and behavioural study, but no less as an
accomplished collection of individual case studies, offering
sufficiently thought-provoking arguments, such as the fact
that--despite all the scientific advances and exhaustive efforts of the
thousands of specialists--humankind still stands pretty helpless in the
prevention of new viral outbreaks and their many strains occurring
globally, when even seemingly well organised societies easily slip into
chaos, leaving all individuals to fend for themselves in the ultimate
fight for survival, all further fuelled by unstoppable leaks (however,
lucrative sensationalism, as well) on an almost inevitable, mutually
supportive (money and power shouldn't mix, but mostly they do) corporal
and governmental cover-ups. Surely it is a disturbing reminder that
even at the most difficult of times, humanity's good traits still get
so easily overpowered by the seed of all evil--selfishness and greed.

Many good actors partake in the movie: Kate Winslet, Matt Damon, Jude
Law, Jennifer Ehle, Marion Cotillard, Laurence Fishburne, Elliott
Gould, to name a few, though one cannot expect remarkable character
development when action is dispersed and story spread on so many leads.
Nevertheless, Soderbergh knows how to make people count and, albeit
somewhat shy about it, he's sufficiently confident in decisive
difference their increasingly frequent, self-sacrificing actions could
make, having faith in ultimately predominant selflessness and
benevolence, kindness and compassion, whether among pre-organised, or
ad hoc gathered communities, down to the last individual,
rediscovering--now under extreme conditions--their altruism and, as
implied in a reserved hope raised towards the end, having--this way or
another--humanism in humankind still prevail.
<|_=00=_|>
One would think that the last thing we need is another outbreak movie.
But that's not the case when the latest of the genre is directed by the
always interesting Steven Soderbergh. Contagion wins for this years
most ridiculously impressive cast lineup, as it is an ensemble picture
about a deadly viral outbreak that affects the entire world. We follow
various characters like a man who loses his wife and step son to the
disease. We follow various doctors who work to stop the virus, along
with CDC officials who must control the spread and influence of the
virus. The whole film is a tightly woven dramatic thriller that
presents a lot of characters and a lot of ideas, but keeps them all in
line and pulls its story off very well.

It's not always easy to keep an ensemble cast straight, especially when
the main plot of the film is run by subplots from the various
characters and their stories that continue throughout the film. The
stories weave in and out of each other at times, but often they are all
separate, just lead by the same main plot of a viral outbreak affecting
the entire population of the world. Thankfully, Contagion interweaves
its characters and story lines at just the right intervals, forming a
very structured and well crafted end result. There are essentially four
main stories that intertwine. There's the father character's story, the
CDC, the scientists trying to stop the disease, and a blogger who
claims to already have a cure for the disease. These four stories get
basically equal screen time and all serve a purpose towards thickening
the film's plot. The way they work together and separate is impressive
and makes for a very strong overall narrative.

Soderbergh takes a very minimalist approach to Contagion, steering
clear of anything flashy or exaggerated and avoiding over-dramatic
relationships and big budget set pieces. This makes Contagion a very
unique experience and something much different from your typical viral
outbreak flick. It does lag in spots as the film attempts to stretch
out certain things without doing anything flashy. The film takes a very
low key and eerily monotone approach to its storytelling. It seems to
choose the simplest solution to things which in turn makes it a more
fascinating and much more realistic feeling than something glitzy and
spastic. I certainly feel that Contagion paints the best picture of
what would actually happen should a serious outbreak like this occur.
This, of course, makes it all the more frightening.

Contagion is certainly a film worth seeing. It takes a much different
approach to a genre we thought we were so familiar with. Soderbergh's
poignant direction and Scott Z. Burns' sharp script give this film a
great atmosphere, and the incredible cast lineup makes it all the
better. It is undeniably slow at points, but when you put in the
context of a film of this quality it doesn't matter nearly as much.
This is a great way to kick off the fall season for film.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at a pre-screening in St. Louis. I thought it was
good, and I did enjoy it, but I also thought it could have been better.
It's about a virus outbreak that is untreatable, and threatens the
whole world's population. I thought it had a kind of 'CSI' vibe to me.
I liked the way the story showed what day it was, place, etc, and kind
of followed the outbreak across the globe. The acting by Matt Damon and
Jude Law was great, but overall it just didn't have enough conflict. I
felt like I had seen it before in similar movies, and there was no main
protagonist/bad guy to fight against (well, besides the virus itself,
of course!) The film made me think about germs, diseases, and
government cover ups. Which are all too real even today. I did really
like the last scene and how the movie came full circle. Overall though,
I felt like it could have gone somewhere, but didn't. But still I
enjoyed it and would recommend it, it's just not one of my favorites.
7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I can see why some people might be a bit disappointed in this movie,
because it's a pretty realistic on a pandemic, without a main heroic
character or even action really. It's full dialogue-driven scenes, and
most of the characters aren't really fleshed out.

I was OK with that because it's able to show the different effects of a
pandemic throughout the globe instead having one or two main
characters. A small Chinese village near the source of the virus tries
to survive. A misguided blogger ends up inciting violence . And a
recently single father tries to protect his daughter. The way the story
cuts between these different story lines kept me from getting bored,
and nothing that happens feels unrealistic.

So while it's a movie I don't really need to see again, it's good to
experience once. It's intense while it lasts, and is a nice reminder of
what could've actually happened if swine flu was actually a big deal.
<|_=00=_|>
I really have to say that I was completely underwhelmed by this
experience. It's not a bad film but it certainly is no thriller. It's
exactly what it says. A film about disease and the spreading of said
disease. There's no real connection with any of the characters or any
of the stars of the cast. They try with Damon and Fishburne's
characters but they spend large chunks of this film absent from the
story. It's a messy grab bag of a film that splinters and runs off in
many directions for no reason at all. Also, the impact of this global
disaster wasn't even depicted to the level one would expect. It
certainly takes a shortcut through just what an economic disaster this
would create. No "evil" liberal blogger would be able to profit and
everyone would be economically devastated as much as anything.

Overall, very disappointing.
<|_=00=_|>
I was taken off guard when I first watched the trailer for Contagion.
It looked like a crazy, off-the-rails thriller that was genuinely
terrifying in its depiction of something too close to reality. When I
got passes for an advanced screening last week, I had to contain my
excitement. With Steven Soderbergh at the helm of a plethora of
Oscar-winning/nominated talent, how could I possibly go wrong?

A deadly virus has been discovered after multiple deaths begin
surfacing around the world. As various members of the CDC and WHO race
to find a cure, the world stands at the brink of a rising epidemic.
While some are safe, others must do everything they can to avoid
infection, or risk the fatal consequences.

It may sound vague, but with so many characters and story lines going
on at once, it is slightly difficult to nail down a synopsis without
giving too much away. The film takes the approach of giving us the
events on a day-to-day structure, showing how quickly and destructively
stretches and mutates. Characters drop in and out to give us varying
points of view of the effects of the virus, whether it be from an
almost random citizen, a doctor on ground zero, or the scientists in
the lab. We learn early on that no one is safe, and the film pulls no
punches letting you know that sentiment again and again. 

While I was a little flabbergasted at the almost ludicrous amount of
montages early in the film, it became clear exactly what kind of slick
look Soderbergh intended for the picture. Depending on the location,
the colour scheme modifies and reinvents itself. Some scenes look
simply stunning in their production values, making a big budget
Hollywood project look like a down and dirty, gritty amateur indie.
Soderbergh has never been easily classified, and with this film, his
first major motion picture since Ocean's Thirteen, he maintains and
furthers his enigmatic nature. The pounding 1980s synth score was a
nice and bewildering touch too, but I would have expected nothing less.

Despite what the trailers and some of my early praise would have you
believe, Contagion is actually a slow and meticulous film that is only
partially thrilling. Yes, there is a panicked tone that carries the
film for a good portion Â– one that frequently veers into claustrophobia
as it dawns on the characters and the audience themselves just how
widespread and devastating the virus is Â– but this tone never seems
right. It jumps and fluctuates, disappearing almost entirely in some
instances, and overdoing it in others. It seems completely unable to
settle on any one ideal, and as a result, feels very all
over-the-place. It saddens me to say it, considering what a master
filmmaker Soderbergh truly is, but the film starts unraveling the
moment it starts and never seems to be able to find its footing. 

But I think this can also be blamed on the script by Scott Z. Burns. He
partnered with Soderbergh before and gave us the moderately
entertaining The Informant!, but he suffers here by building a complex,
dense and incredibly verbose narrative around a mere nugget of a good
idea. Instead of developing the idea into the thought-provoking and
horrifying vision we are meant to take from everything we have been
shown, we are given a cross-section of stories that intersect at points
and fail to come to any sort of fruition. By the time the film comes to
a close, after more than a handful of screeching halts and asinine
character motivations and reactions, I just found myself asking what
the point of it all was. There is some heavy handed satire buried
within the picture, as is a treatise on some disturbing realities of
the healthcare system worldwide. But outside of these vague notions, it
all feels like a huge build-up to nothing. It feels like Burns and
Soderbergh simply stopped caring after the basic idea stage was
completed. And if they do not care about what is happening, then why
should we?

And really, with all the jargon and technical terminology being thrown
around, did they really need to talk down to the audience on more than
one occasion? I am by no means a genius, but I felt kind of offended
that the film found the need to hint and then spell things out entirely
for me.

While it was initially impressive to see such a diverse group of actors
in roles of varying importance (including Canada's own Enrico Colantoni
in a fairly substantial role), sadly there is no real time for any one
actor to really make something of their role. No one drops the ball
thankfully (they let the film do that for them), but at the same time,
no one seems like they are putting any substantial effort in either.
Singling any one actor out is practically unfair, because there are no
standouts. I realize this is a very ensemble based film, but even the
most hardened examples of this type of film have one character that the
audience finds unforgettable. This film does not have this character in
any capacity. And for such a great pool of Oscar-calibre talent, this
is the most disappointing and disheartening element of all. 

While I went into Contagion with excitement, I came out let down. For
what little the film actually has going for it, it just seems like it
all went to waste (including the absolutely shocking death that is
ruined by the trailers). Whether it wanted to be a paranoia-driven
thriller, a not so subtle satire, or just an exercise in fear,
Contagion fails on all counts. It is overly slow, and at the worst of
times, incredibly boring. You are better off watching the trailer on
loop and imagining just how much better the film looks, than it
actually is. 

6/10.

(An extended review also appeared on http://www.geekspeakmagazine.com).
<|_=00=_|>
In the year 2000, Steven Soderbergh released a film about the drug 
trade called "Traffic" - and it won him the Oscar for Best Director as 
well as three Oscars for Best Supporting Actor, Best Film Editing, and 
Best Adapted Screenplay. The film, budgeted at US$46 million grossed 
over US$207 million.

"Contagion", a docudrama of sorts on a global pandemic, is unlikely to 
accomplish the same feats although it has the same multi-level plots 
that "Traffic" had. Still, it is an engaging drama played out by a 
bunch of top stars.

The movie opens on Day 2 of the virus outbreak, following a sick 
looking Gwyneth Paltrow (as Beth Emhoff) at Chicago airport as she 
travels home to Minneapolis from a business trip in Hong Kong. She 
spreads the virus to her hubby Mitch (Matt Damon) and son. We are also 
shown how others in Kowloon (Hong Kong), London (population 8.6 
million) and Guandong province (population 98 million) fall ill from 
the disease.

At the Centre for Disease Control (CDC) in Atlanta, its executive Dr 
Ellis Cheever (Laurence Fishburne) swings into action, sending his 
Epidemic Intelligence officer, Dr Erin Mears (Kate Winslet) to find out 
how the virus started. Meanwhile, Dr. Leonora Orantes (Marion 
Cotillard) of the World Health Organization, flies to China - and 
promptly gets into trouble with the locals. As the days add on, we see 
how other factors - such as conspiracy blogger Alan Krumwiede (Jude 
Law) takes advantage of the situation, how panic grips the population, 
etc. The CDC works against the clock to come up with a vaccination 
against the MEV-1 virus.

Even though Soderbergh has lined up a formidable cast for this movie, 
the main 'character' is the invisible virus. As Paltrow's sniffling 
Beth dips into a bowl of nuts at the airport, the virus is on the 
loose; it spreads as she hands over her credit card and the camera 
follows the chain of contamination - from the bartender's hand, to the 
till machine, to the glass on the bar. When someone drops dead, we know 
who to blame. "Contagion" is told in a series of subplots, just like in 
"Traffic", but none is as well developed as we would like it to be.

Law's blogger represents the financial and social upheaval on a global 
scale but it is nothing as terrifying as the effects of the virus. We 
also get to keep an eye on how the tragedy is affecting Damon's Mitch 
Emhoff and his daughter, as well as the personal side of Fishburne's Dr 
Cheever and his wife Aubrey (Sanaa Lathan). Of these sub-plots, the 
weakest and most underdeveloped is the one involving Cottilard's Dr 
Orantes.

Jennifer Ehle does a good job as Dr Ally Hextall - a dogged scientist 
racing against time to come out with an antidote. The drama, written by 
Scott Z. Burns, also compares the outbreak with those of SARS, H1N1 and 
the Spanish flu (in 1918 that claimed 50 million lives), lending a 
touch of realism to the proceedings. Indeed, Soderbergh could have 
thrown in some terror and horror thrills. I am glad he resisted the 
temptation.

You'll think twice about shaking hands after the movie. 

<|_=00=_|>
Since 1918 there has been a paranoid fear of a plague spreading around
the world once again. It's 2011, how would things be handled? If you're
smart, you know how most of the world would handle it, most people
would turn into animals while the rich would benefit off the death of
others. Movies have been created the past few decades on plagues
hitting again, The Stand (even if it's a miniseries), 28 Days Later,
Dawn of the Dead, etc. It's terrifying to think of, hard to grasp even.
Contagion was made on a more realistic documentary type of movie on
"what ifÂ…" factors. With an all star cast, we find out how fear can
spread faster than a virus and what would life be like if everything
and everyone we touched could kill us.

Beth goes to Hong Kong on a business trip to participate in a
groundbreaking ceremony for a new factory. While in Hong Kong, Beth
visits a casino and plays a dice game with colleagues from the plant.
Once the ceremony is complete, Beth flies back to her husband, Mitch.
Later that night Beth collapses on the floor in what appears to be a
seizure. Beth is rushed to a hospital for treatment and passes to an
unknown cause. Dr. Cheever of the Centers for Disease Control leads an
investigation into disease related deaths, all exhibiting similar
symptoms. As the contagion spreads, hearings are set up to discuss
possible solutions, airports within the state are shut down, and the
national guard is deployed to Minneapolis to cordon off the city, set
up treatment centers and provide general order. But as the disease
proceeds to continue taking millions of lives, the question is not only
how to be cured but to stop the contagion from spreading.

Not to sound like a conspiracy theorist or anything, but this movie
makes me wonder if it's either trying to prepare us for something or
spread propaganda. This weekend, I'm writing this review on September
9, 2011, is the 10 year anniversary of 9/11. My boyfriend and I were
watching a documentary the other day and I told him how since that day,
we have lived in a paranoid society of fear, somewhat good on the fact
that we know we can't be ignorant forever otherwise we'll get bit hard
or is it bad; where everything has been so horrible to the point where
we can't enjoy anything. Germ-X sales are way high because people are
so terrified of catching something. In a society where we are cleaner
than ever but we are so panicked to catch a disease of some sort and I
wonder because of our media if this causes the problem.

I digress onto the movie. The cast is very exceptional, the main reason
I went to see this was to see Kate Winslet, my favorite actress. The
cast is an all star, though in some ways it could be a bit distracting
as Matt Damon looked a little like Mark Wahlberg to me for some reason.
But each actor did a great job holding their own and each one having a
little sympathy as you hoped for the best in the film. Although I
wanted to throw a fit for Gwenth Paltrow's character spreading the
disease to Chicago first, thank you very much! The style of the movie
is done very well. I have only 2 complaints, one being that the film
could have been a little more shocking, since we are thrown right into
the disease spreading, it's hard to latch onto any character because we
know there's a chance of them dying. The tension could have been a
little more there. The ending was also a little off, thought this is a
mild complaint as I would see this like how it fizzled out just like if
this was for real, if the human race had fizzled out. But it left me a
little unsatisfied; I wanted more at the end. I think I would recommend
this as a rental or a matinÃ©e for those who want an intelligent film.
It does keep you frightened on some level making you wonder if you
could be next in a plague that will kill millions of people.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Now go and wash your hands! That's what you'll be doing after you see
this film. Contagion is a frightening realistic procedural thriller
about the spread of an airborne pandemic virus, its impact on an
ensemble cast of characters played by a veritable 'Who's Who' of
Hollywood and the subsequent race to find a cure.

Like his earlier work 'Traffic', Soderbergh skilfully interweaves the
various story lines into a bigger picture that breathlessly tracks and
encircles the globe. The cast do not let him down. It's impossible to
see a bad performance from Matt Damon and once again his role as a
grieving father is sensitively and painfully played. We really feel his
sense of sudden and unexpected loss as he struggles to internalise the
news of his wife's death, disbelieving, dazed and confused. Marion
Cotillard adds an international hue to her role as a World Health
Organisation investigator whilst Jude Law plays the role of an
insidious Australian blogger, who dangerously undermines the medical
establishment's attempts to find a cure for his own conspiratorial and
financial gains, to perfection. I could go on; Laurence Fishburne, Kate
Winslet, Jennifer Ehle and John Hawkes all provide solid support in a
starry cast.

What makes this film so compelling is the way Soderbergh is able to
show how unhygienic human beings are and how easy it is to create a
pandemic. In hundreds of different absent minded ways we touch our
faces on a daily basis and in doing so, transfer and spread dangerous
viruses amongst ourselves. Next time you're in the supermarket look out
for the number of people who pick their noses, wipe their mouths and
cough, sneeze and splutter their way past you without any attempts to
cover their mouths. They're picking up (and putting back) the fruit and
vegetables, handling groceries and even touching your hand when
supermarket staff are giving back your card or change! Worse still, a
recent survey showed that although 95% of people say they wash their
hands, only 12% actually do so and consequently 1 in 6 mobile phones
have faecal bacterial on them and 30% of all handbags. I could go on.

Despite a slightly preposterous storyline when Cotillard is kidnapped
in Hong Kong, Soderbergh does portray the breakdown of society in an
uncomfortably truthful way when people are suddenly and unexpectedly
faced with their own extinction and the instincts of self preservation
take over. This could have been explored a little further around the
world although at all times the story is grounded in reality. Even the
death toll of 27 million worldwide in four months has the ring of truth
about it and this is due in no small part to the film's chief
scientific adviser, Dr. W. Ian Lipkin, the John Snow Professor of
Epidemiology at Columbia University. The televised national lottery in
the film is something that I could see happening in the interests of
fairness and impartiality when the supply of vaccines is unable to keep
up with demand when life and death is only one injection away.

At the film's closing credits one thing stands out and that is the
unheralded and heroic work of the thousands of doctors,
microbiologists, virologists and vaccine researchers around the world
who labour night and day to minimise the effects of such a pandemic
occurring which might wipe out the human race. If you're a pessimist
like me in this age of global warming, massive deforestation, the
depletion of the earth's natural resources, the extinction of wildlife
habitats, overpopulation and overcrowding, go figure...a pandemic like
the one portrayed in Contagion is inevitable (and long overdue
according to the scientific world). The only question that remains is
how many people will it kill? Anyway, go and see the film Â– it's a
thought provoking and scary chiller that taps into the current
zeitgeist.
