
Based on true events, Paul Greengrass' Captain Phillips is the rarest
of thrillers, the kind that relies on neither distracting special
effects nor circumspect character development. Driven by a powerful,
soul-baring performance by the inimitable Tom Hanks, the movie never
lags, never oversells the plight of its characters, never reduces
anyone or anything to mere caricature.

Hanks is the titular captain of the United States container ship MV
Maersk Alabama, cruising along the coast of Somalia with a full load
and heading toward the horn of Africa. Two skiffloads of armed Somalis
close in, ready to board the vessel. They're pirates, working for a
warlord in their impoverished country, and they smell opportunity.

If this were a standard action flick, we might see the heroism of
Phillips and his motley crew as they fight the evil pirates and save
the world. It's not so here. There are nuances afoot; for once, we get
the perspective of the lead pirate (Barkhad Abdi) without falling into
the easy trap of feeling empathy toward him. 

The pirates board the giant ship, clearly pleased with their find. Muse
(Abdi) quickly proves himself to be a strong, humanistic leader; he's
single minded (where's the crew? where's the goods?) but not sinister.
His gang includes a strong man with a quick temper and Muse's own
relative, who'd begged to come along on the mission - a mission that,
when successful, would go a long way to improving their lives. 

The movie is told in two distinct halves: the time spent by the pirates
on the Maersk as they search in vain for treasure and crew, and the
time spent in the ship's lifeboat as they make their way to Somalia.
The villains are conflicted and desperate. And armed. But they're
quickly immersed in an impossible situation. 

This is one of the toughest, most naked performances of Hanks' stellar
career. It's sometimes painful and heart wrenching to watch. He's an
Everyman, per usual, but he's not also a savior or a hero. He doesn't
suddenly develop super strength and overpower the bad guys. He's just a
guy in charge of a boat and its passengers. 

Matching him wit for wit while frantically trying to keep his own wits
about him is Abdi as the skinny, intelligent Muse, seemingly a veteran
of high piracy (though not against huge container ships). Abdi is a
wonder to watch; unpredictable and cunning but a little greedy and
rapidly running out of viable options. Truly a talent to look out for,
Abdi nails this role.

The ending is predictable only in the most general sense. Bill Ray's
screenplay does not duck some plausible consequences to the actions of
each main player and leaves us with a scene that is as emotionally
overpowering as anything in Hanks' previous Philadelphia. 

It seems that every time Tom Hanks makes a good movie, people begin to
label it as "Oscar bait," as if the movie were created just as a
vehicle to earn an award. Captain Phillips delivers a tight,
action-packed story fraught with none of the usual missteps of the
genre, and if it is indeed rewarded with the highest of honors, it will
be well deserved.
<|_=00=_|>
What a stunning film - the imminent threat of deadly violence tempered
with the tragic circumstances that drive people to such desperate
actions made for a very human story.

If Hanks is nominated for an Oscar for this, then Barkhad Abdi deserves
a nomination too, because their scenes together were electric - never
once did Abdi appear the junior party, every bit Hank's equal as two
cunning foes trying to outfox one another.

The best lines in the film were perhaps when Phillips beseeched of
Muse: "Surely there's something other than fishing and kidnapping
people you could do?" 

To which Muse replied, sombrely: "In America, maybe".

It's a must see, the best film I've seen this year.
<|_=00=_|>
Hours after the World Premiere of Paul Greengrass' newest psychological
thriller "Captain Phillips," my heart is still palpating at a hundred
beats per minute. Starring the magnificent Tom Hanks in his finest
performance since "Cast Away," this edge-of-your-seat thrill ride lands
as one of the best films of the New York Film Festival and the year.

An intricate and precisely executed thriller written by Billy Ray,
everything about "Captain Phillips" works amazingly. It's this year's
"Zero Dark Thirty" in tension and features not one, but two fierce
performances from Tom Hanks and newcomer Barkhad Abdi. A loose
dramatization and not a fact to fact retelling of a dark day for an
American captain, the film takes us through the days Captain Richard
Phillips' cargo ship was hijacked by Somali pirates in 2009. The film
unravels itself with a narrative intensity bringing our hero from the
day of his departure to the end of his journey. Writer Billy Ray's
detailed and well-structured script provides Greengrass to do exactly
what he does best in his directorial efforts. There are definite
elements in "Captain Phillips" that remind me of the emotional and gut-
wrenching effect that "United 93" had on so many of us nearly seven
years ago. While you will have a near heart attack, you will be in
tears by the end credits.

I haven't been this impressed with the work of Tom Hanks in years.
Putting every ounce of his charm to good use but digging deep into a
character with such raw and emotional fervency. Hanks' dedication and
abilities utilized are the same tools used in his first Oscar-winning
performance in "Philadelphia" I assure you. It's a turn that could make
him this year's Daniel Day-Lewis. As his wife, the beautiful Catherine
Keener is regulated to one single scene, at the beginning of our film,
where Hanks dominates the conversation. Still a cherry on top if you
ask me but not something that many will notice nor remember..

Breakthrough performer Barkhad Abdi is simply sensational. With a
snarky demeanor as he calls Capt. Phillips "Irish" - Abdi plays Muse, a
Somali pirate that is layered with pride and disdain for the human
condition. Billy Ray gives him such a complexity, hinting at a
sensitive undertone but not masking the overtly violent rage that
embodies his soul; it's a creative formula that equals an interesting
dichotomy. Abdi administers these traits brilliantly.

As you expect any Paul Greengrass film to be, the technical executions
are top-notch including the intimate Cinematography by Barry Ackroyd
and the tight editing of Christopher Rouse, both sure-fire Oscar
nominees for awards season. 

One of the amazing things about "Captain Phillips" is the final twenty
minutes or so. Pent-up emotion that has built for nearly two hours, our
hero's last moments with the audience are both triumphant and
incredibly vulnerable. This is when Tom Hanks shows his true power as
one of the finest actors to grace our screens. I admire the man. He
captures the real human condition, both in courage and in the face of
defeat. How would you react in what you thought could be your final
moments on Earth? Who would you think about? What about if you did make
it? Would you be so overcome with emotion that you couldn't focus on
the blanket of safety that surrounds you, or would you just crumble
into the fetus position, wanting to return to your place of origin?
"Captain Phillips" renewed my love of the movies. It's what breathes
life into my daily routine. It fascinates us and which is why, no
matter how terrible our lives are, or how the economy falls beneath our
feet, cinema still lives. Free as a bird. I'm in awe of all of this. I
feel privileged to share those moments. Not to be hyperbolic or put
focus on the Oscar race, which is what I do for a living, but "Captain
Phillips" showed me what Tom Hanks really means to cinema. Our lives
are habitual and ordinary at times, yet someone, every now and again,
has the ability to capture those little quirks of our own selves. I
think Hanks is this generation's treasure that will be remembered for
years to come. I'm in near tears as I write this now. Paul Greengrass
brought me personally into a situation that I will likely never be in
and examined my frail and defenseless spiritual nature. Connection.
That's what cinema is about. Few films do this. Many never will.

To get off the somber note, "Captain Phillips" is filled with high-
levels of tension. Bring your defibrillator and a bottle of Xanex to
make it through the picture as your heart will be beating outside of
your chest. In so many ways, it's the perfect film. Real life,
authentic characters, and a cast and crew that show up to deliver some
of their finest works. A dynamite lesson of the human psyche.

"Captain Phillips" opens in theaters October 11.
<|_=00=_|>
It's fair to say that the movies which have been walking away with Box 
Office numbers this year have been either big superhero movies or big 
sci-fi movies. If you're wondering whether or not you should go and see 
this film because it looks like something a little different DO IT! 
This is a film, regardless if you already know the story, which 
delivers excellent acting, excellent moments of tension and excellent 
use of emotion which ,when you leave the theatre, won't be difficult to 
feel at all.

Now if you're still considering whether or not you should go and see 
this film, let's address the rumours you might have already heard:

1.There's been a lot of talk about Tom Hanks potentially claiming 
another Oscar - yes he simply HAS to be up for contention after this. 
True in the first half of the film he doesn't necessarily have to be 
all out emotional, but he does enough so that when we reach the second 
half and ultimately the final act, we are in as much shock and awe as 
the character of Richard Phillips through watching his performance.

2. A few people have said "too much Tom Hanks." There's two sides to 
this: Obviously he's going to be in the story a lot because he is the 
star BUT he doesn't give the only good performance here; the Somali 
pirates are truly terrifying, not just because of what they are but 
because their characters have a lot of uncertainty making them very 
unpredictable.

3. Some people are saying it's overrated and we've seen it all before. 
I'm not claiming its the greatest movie ever made, but what I am saying 
is its definitely worth a look.

So if you're worried about wasting some cash don't be, it's definitely 
a film you won't regret paying for.
<|_=00=_|>
Paul Greengrass has proved his talents with two fantastic Bourne films,
The Bourne Supremacy and The Bourne Ultimatum, and two impressive
real-life dramas, Bloody Sunday and United 93. Green Zone, while being
a little like Bourne in Baghdad, was also a worthy thriller. Captain
Phillips sees Greengrass deliver another true story to the big screen,
proving that he is indeed the current king of cinematic re-enactments.

Tom Hanks gives one of his finest performances in a long time. His
Captain Phillips is a professional, serious man that keeps his emotions
in check while sternly ensuring his crew understands his expectations.
As the situation escalates, his emotions begin to creep through.
Leading towards a final release that is both heartbreaking and
relieving. Hanks' character isn't explored too deeply, but we are
nevertheless with him every step of the way.

In a fantastic casting choice, Tom Hanks is more than matched by
Barkhad Abdi, who truly shines as the lead pirate. We're given more
access than expected to this character  to all four pirates for that
matter. Abdi manages to evoke empathy from a character that could have
easily succumbed to stereotypical villainy. His performance provides a
complex level of emotion to the proceedings. He knows that the
situation has easily ran away from him, yet he naively decides to
re-assure himself  and Captain Phillips  every chance he gets.

This is no-nonsense filmmaking of the highest order. Paul Greengrass'
kinetic camera rises above the sometimes dizzying approach from some of
his last films. The hand-held factor works beautifully here, ensuring
the you-are-there level of realism is cranked to a ten at every second.
As the events escalate, we are always kept aware of what is happening.
While skipper jargon and navy terms are exclaimed every which way, care
is placed on making sure we still know exactly what is going on. Billy
Ray (Breach, State of Play, The Hunger Games) constructs a taut and
clear screenplay that compliments Greengrass' filmmaking style.

To call this tense is an understatement. Henry Jackman's score pushes
every sequence to an almost unbearable level of tension, Barry
Ackroyd's cinematography beautifully captures the sweat and intensity
of every moment, and Christopher Rouse's masterful editing brings it
all home.

Exhausting and thrilling, Captain Phillips is all the more powerful
with the knowledge that you're witnessing a true story. Paul Greengrass
and co. have crafted an experiential film that you won't be forgetting
in a hurry.

- thereelword.net
<|_=00=_|>
Captain Phillips is a biopic based on 2009's Maersk Alabama hijacking
incident, which was an intriguing story and ordeal of the people
involved. This film adaptation mostly plays as a straightforward
thriller with only brief backstories. In spite of whatever comment
regards to the accuracy this film is getting, it didn't hurt how much
of an exhilarating piece of cinema this is. Merits obviously goes to
director Paul Greengrass and star Tom Hanks. It's quite predictable
what you'll get if you put those talents together, but the result is
somehow surprising like you've never see it coming.

There's nothing much interesting happening at the first act when the
film was exploring the personal life of Richard Phillips, but that
seems to be the point: the dreariness of the intro immediately presumes
that he really is just an ordinary guy. Though, there isn't actually
enough detail about his personal life in those scenes aside of his job
and his family, same with the Somali pirate leader, Muse. Everything
becomes more alive when the actual plot starts going. Lives turn upside
down, tension rises every minute passes, and the humanity of both
Phillips and Muse are becoming more and more visible. It's a down to
earth matter of life and death where both sides aren't too perfect
enough to succeed or survive, and their actions could end up causing
even worse situations.

Even before the release, everybody has already been betting that Tom
Hanks will get a nod for this(probably because of the accent or he's
just Tom Hanks). Other than mimicking the real Phillips' accent, Hanks
really gives his character a palpable sense of fear and pressure. But
there is one scene in his performance that will definitely give the
viewers a total impact, which it might've made the camera linger. That
whole scene could be a trick for some to love this movie even more, but
even without it, Hanks is still spellbinding as Captain Phillips.
Another amazing performance is first time actor, Barkhad Abdi. Abdi
manages to be threatening, sympathetic, and strangely charismatic at
the same time as Muse, thus it makes the character more effective.

Now for Greengrass, his aesthetics are all there. Shaky camera bringing
momentum in every action scene, action scenes filled with nerve
wracking suspense, and sidelines taking place in control rooms. But
this is his challenging side, such as United 93, when there aren't any
much explosions nor fighting set pieces practically involved. The title
might give one an assumption that the film is about a captain who
fights off pirates. But it turns out, they're just hopeless victims who
do not have a single gun to defend themselves from their armed enemies.
The kind of thrill here is anxiety. You will always get the sense that
there is something wrong going to happen in every step these pirates
take, leading the hostages really need to depend on the government and
the Navy SEALs. What's smart about this is it's all mind games. They're
troubled by complicated decisions, yet have awareness of naivety. At
the second half, the excitement is now relied by figuring out which of
them is going to be fooled by whose tricks. By the end of the film, you
will then realize how limitlessly enticing it was while realistic at
the same time.

Captain Phillips is almost just a very great thriller, then it
eventually becomes more powerful. Despite of calling his achievement
heroism, it was more like a test of courage. The movie is wise to make
sure Phillips is no glossy superhero, but a regular human being who
gets to face a situation that may lead anyone to trauma, just to
sacrifice the risks of his crew. Simply, that may tend to inspire which
is why it's so focused to his point of view. Otherwise, the filmmaking
did an astonishing job, although you already know what these people can
bring. But surprisingly, it still defies our expectations. It's amazing
how Tom Hanks' talent can still surprise many, and how Paul Greengrass'
obvious style feels unique and fresh (in this movie, at least). Rating
the film can be somewhat difficult. It's so engrossing and excellent,
it's hard to notice any terrible flaws about it. Later on, it doesn't
matter. Captain Phillips is a satisfying ride that ultimately does its
best.
<|_=00=_|>
"Captain Phillips" is the Hollywood retelling of the true-to-life 2009
harrowing story of an American container vessel Maersk Alabama (with
Captain Richard Phillips at the helm) being held hostage by Somali
pirates. The screenplay by Billy Ray was based on the novel "A
Captain's Duty: Somali Pirates, Navy SEALs, and Dangerous Days at Sea"
written by Captain Richard Phillips himself.

Playing the titular character, Tom Hanks is what this film is all
about. He starts off simply, playing Capt. Phillips as a family man and
seasoned seaman on a routine delivery. However when the pirates came,
you see him transform into a cool-under-pressure leader and shrewd
tactician, matching wits with these desperate aggressors. In the last
five minutes, Hanks would give us an unexpected display of emotion
which may well deliver him another Oscar for Best Actor.

The four Somali-American first-time actors playing the pirates are a
very realistic bunch. They play with wild-eyed and feral intensity,
really scary. Barkhad Abdi plays their skinny foolhardy leader Muse,
engaging Phillips in a deadly chess game, toe-to-toe. Faysal Ahmed
plays the hot-headed Najee, who was the loose cannon of the group.
Barkhad Abdirahman plays the young recruit Bilal, getting himself a
baptism of fire on his first time out. 

When I saw the name director Paul Greengrass in the credits, I
understood why the sense of tension and urgency were so well-conveyed.
This was that familiar sense of excitement we felt in his previous
films, like the last two Jason Bourne films or that suspenseful 9/11
drama "United 93". He really knows how to make military operations
exciting on screen, as he did for the Army in "Green Zone" and the Navy
SEALS in this film.

I have to admit I was on the verge of getting seasick with the
shakiness of the camera, but luckily I held on despite the two-hour
length of the film set at sea.

Overall, this is a different sort of adventure drama, with a topic not
too commonly tackled in a mainstream film. We hear of these events on
the news, but this film brings us right in the middle of one. We will
feel the tension building as the pirates were approaching. We will feel
the fear when the pirates were on board. We will feel the desperation
and the frustration of being trapped in the middle of the open ocean
with no help immediately forthcoming. If you are up for such a
realistic experience, then this film is for you.
<|_=00=_|>
That went a lot higher than my expectations. I was thinking an okay
movie, but that was more than just okay. Truly impressive powerful
thriller.

The movie's strength points could be summed up:

1. Greengrass's thrillers are really fine, I like his The Bourne
Ultimatum with his shaky camera tricks. And here he is doing it again
maybe with different techniques. As a thriller, Greengrass managed to
make this movie get on your nerves and put so much tension, and that's
a success.

2. The Somali crew.. Now, that's some serious impressive sh*t. Some
Somali dudes you have never seen their faces in a movie before come and
make such spectacular performances, that's something you should admire.
It made the movie so believable that you'd sometimes forget it's just a
movie. Barkhad Abdi has made a huge step in his career with this movie
and that was crowned by his nomination for the best actor in a
supporting role. He probably won't get it, but he deserved it.

3. Tom Hanks is just a really fine actor. He was driving the whole
thing with his convincing performance. I still can't believe he got my
tearing in that scene, or let's just say crying. Greengrass has taken
him to squeeze some fine acting skills.

4. Fair screenplay that didn't make you forget that justice should be
done, no matter how the conditions the person lives in, but it also
pushed the eyes to take a look into the world that would produce such
people as pirates.
<|_=00=_|>
"It was supposed to be easy. I take over ship, get paid, no one gets
hurt." In 2009 a Somali named Muse (Abdi) is in trouble and needs to
get money for his boss fast or face the consequences. His plan is to
hijack a cargo ship and hold it ransom until he gets his money. When he
boards a ship captained by Rich Phillips (Hanks) he thinks he found his
answer to his problems, but things only get worse for all involved.
This is a true story. It's always more fun to watch a movie that is
also a true story and even better when you see one that you remember
the events when it was happening. As far as the movie goes it starts
off pretty slow but grows more and more tense as it goes on. As great
an actor as Tom Hanks is I found myself thinking that this is really a
part that many people could pull off. Then I watched the last 20
minutes and realized why they got Hanks. Much like the movie Apollo 13,
when you watch a movie that you know how it ends but still end up
shedding a tear it is because of great filmmmaking. This falls into
that category. A movie that builds momentum the entire time. Starts off
slow but by the end you are hoping for more. I liked it. Overall, tense
and makes you think about both sides of the event and if the pirates
were really evil or not. I give it a B+.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on an event that garnered worldwide attention in 2009, "Captain
Phillips" tells the tale of two total strangers, both hailing from
opposites corners of the earth, who are brought together by
circumstance and fate.

One of those individuals is Richard Phillips, the captain of an unarmed
cargo ship sailing through international waters off the coast of Africa
en route to Mombasa, and the other is Abduwali Muse, the leader of a
band of Somali pirates who are determined to board the ship and hold
its captain and crew hostage for ransom.

Billy Ray has based his screenplay on the book "A Captain's Duty" by
Steven Talty and Phillips himself. The movie, directed with his usual
taut precision by Paul Greengrass, relates the story in step-by-step
detail, exploring the relationship between these two wildly disparate
but equally desperate captains, as a thrilling real-life drama plays
itself out on the high seas. While Phillips' self-sacrificing heroism -
and that of the Navy Seals who successfully took out three of the four
pirates - takes center stage in the drama, Ray is still able to give
Abduwali his due, making it clear that the young man has been driven to
this action as much out of desperation as out of greed or criminal
intent, since illegal fishing and the dumping of toxic waste on the
part of foreigners in that area have pretty much depleted the Somali
fishing grounds, leaving men like Abduwali without any viable means of
supporting themselves and their families. Sadly, piracy becomes the
next obvious step in the struggle for survival. It would have been easy
to have turned Abduwali and his cohorts into one-dimensional villains,
but, to their credit, Ray and Greengrass have chosen not to do so. 

This complexity of character is attributable in no small measure to the
outstanding performances by veteran Tom Hanks and newcomer Barkhad
Abdi, who earned an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor for his
work here. Together, they create a human dynamic that carries the film
far beyond the heart-stopping, race-against-the-clock surface aspects
of the drama. Not that the visceral is in any way slighted, for in true
Greengrass fashion, the film moves along at a breakneck pace, rarely
slowing down to give the audience a chance to catch its breath along
the way.

By far, the most effective scene in the movie comes right near the end,
after Phillips has been rescued and is taken to the ship's trauma
center to ascertain his physical and mental condition. Unlike the vast
majority of movies and TV shows in which characters who are subjected
to horrifying circumstances seem to bounce back from them almost
immediately, "Captain Phillips" shows us the true human response to a
life-shattering, traumatic event (thanks in no small measure to Hanks'
magnificent acting). 

It is just this type of insightful verisimilitude that informs each and
every moment of "Captain Phillips."
