
I'll be honest. When I saw the trailer, I was madly excited. It looked
fantastic. But then, after a while, I remembered, that the main point
of a trailer is to do just that. Hype the film, while revealing
literally all the main plot scenes and parts. I didn't know if it was
the case with 'Safe House', since, hey, it's Denzel Washington. That
man doesn't just do any role.

I just got back from the movie theater, and am I glad that I was wrong.
The movie is fantastic, electrifying. Do know that I don't just 'get
off' on any action flick. In most cases, I just watch and forget. This
was actually, fantastic. I don't have a single bad word to say about
it, the way it was directed, acted or anything else. Everything was
simply fantastic.

I realize my words sound absurd, and the score looks the same, but it
really is worth it. I didn't see an action movie this well written, and
this well acted in a really, really long time. Of course, by the end of
the movie, any experienced watcher will figure out the ending by
himself, but even though you 'get it', it's still extremely fun to sit
through and see how the pieces connect.

I really hate long reviews, so I'm trying to make this one as short and
sweet as possible. Lastly, have in mind that not one cast member failed
his role. Ryan was fantastic, even better then I could've imagined (a
nice showing of his acting skills after Green Lantern and Change-Up),
and Denzel, what to say that hasn't been already said about that man's
acting. Phenomenal doesn't cut it.

Go and see it. It's much better then anything else thats currently
'showing'.
<|_=00=_|>
"I'm not your only enemy tonight." Tobin Frost (Denzel Washington) 

In Safe House, Tobin Frost is one cool fugitive, but then he's played
by one of Hollywood's coolest actors: Denzel Washington. Guarding him
is young CIA agent Matt Weston played by the prominent film actor, Ryan
Reynolds. Together they make good acting possible; if only this crime
adventure would let them.

Instead, their moments are mere interludes to the cacophony of guns and
gore, a smorgasbord of thriller clichés planted in neat rows by
director Daniel Espinosa and blossoming glass and guts ad nauseam. As
the cool Frost escapes numerous captures and Weston follows him
(they've discovered the "safe house" is not so safe), I wish they'd sit
and talk for an hour because the older agent has much to tell the
younger about love (Matt has a questioning girlfriend) and survival in
the den of thieves known as espionageglobal that is. Frost has a
computer file with the names of bad cops, some of them friends and
supervisors. So nobody's safe.

Among the vulnerable are seriously good actors like Sam Shephard, Vera
Farmiga, Brendan Gleeson, and Robert Patrick. The shame is they have
parts so formulaic as to obliterate their acting excellence.

Anyway, you get the routine. The only surprise is that this type of
film continues to entertain us even when we know the plot points. In
part that's because we like to see good/bad guys played by the likes of
Denzel work their way through some challenging puzzles and achieve some
success just as we try to do in our daily lives. Also we get to see
multiple car crashes without being in them, a wish we may have
subconsciously when we experience road rage.

I suggest you leave your rational hat at home (most of the plot makes
little sense) and wear your thrill-seeking one because this film will
fulfill all your demands for excitement without touching a nerve in
your left brain.
<|_=00=_|>
If you have seen conspiracy flicks like "Enemy Of The State", "The
Bourne Identity", "XIII", "Unknown" and so on and so forth, you really
won't be surprised by this movie. The story presents nothing new and is
about the usual stereotypes: the good one turn out to be the bad ones,
the bad ones turn out to be the good ones, the weak ones turn out to be
the strong ones and so one. I think you get what I mean. The movie has
no big surprises after all.

But if this kind of movie is well done, it can still merit a rating of
eight points. I only give six point five and for this site seven points
because of the mediocre camera work that was shaking and irritating at
some points of the movie.

The rest of the film is quite decent. The locations are interesting and
the movie takes place in Cape Town in South Africa and not in Europe or
North America. The fighting and action scenes are very well done and
with the visual and sound effects in cinema, it's a pleasant
entertainment to watch this movie for sure. It's a good flick to change
your mind, to relax and to take a break from your everyday life for
sure. The acting is also rather good with two strong lead actors that
are a very cool Denzel Washington and a sympathetic and determined Ryan
Reynolds.

The only little flaw is that I would have liked to know more about both
characters, especially about their past and what really led them to do
what they actually do in the movie.

The movie simply has not the greatest script to stand out among many
other similar flicks but it's still a good film. I would suggest you to
rather watch the movies I talked about in my introduction or classics
like "I As In Icarus" but if you have seen and liked them all, you will
surely appreciate this work, too.
<|_=00=_|>
It's an interesting albeit predictable action flick that's nothing
special but delivers enough to make it worthwhile. It does feature what
has to be the dumbest CIA operatives/handlers ever put on film. What
transpires, especially early, will make most viewers say "why in the
world didn't they just" but getting past that means enjoying a film
where Denzel Washington perfectly menaces and charms his way through
every scene. Put just about anyone else in this role and the film would
lose a lot. Ryan Reynolds was good enough and the rest of the stellar
supporting cast is absolutely wasted. Again, I found it interesting
despite it being three repetitive acts of mindless turns highlighting
that the government is pure evil and they apparently keeping hiring the
same set of mindless goons who race around guns blazing everywhere with
little effect or competence whatsoever. Also, the camera work was AWFUL
in terms of the overuse of the shaky cam.
<|_=00=_|>
It is so very difficult to find new material when you piece together a
governmental conspiracy movie. Safe House is able to do it to a point.
The greatest success of this movie is the usage of modern film
techniques. Too often the bulging budget and ability to edit in effects
makes action/thriller movies extremely unrealistic. Safe House does the
opposite. It takes all of these techniques and uses them to make the
movie raw and real.

The actors were hand-picked perfectly for their roles. Ryan Reynolds is
the actor you have to use when you want to put a likable, relatable
family man in a difficult situation. As a CIA operative caught up in
something far outside his experience, he fits in perfectly. As for
Denzel Washington, there is little that he can't do. For the unique
character of Tobin Frost, there is no better man to fill the role.
Together they form a storyline that merely needs to be able to stand on
its own two feet. The storyline does stand on its own. That being said,
it is the weakest part of the movie. The twists have all been seen
before. This movie doesn't offer new plot points to the old conspiracy
theory movie. It merely adds new characters. The new characters are
great, but it is not enough. In order for the movie to be great, it
needed to give something new to the story.

I must say that the end was beautiful. Without giving anything away, it
was gracefully preformed. It wrapped up the loose ends that too many
other movies simply leave hanging. It adds a whole other dimension to
Ryan Reynolds' character. It will, without a doubt, leave you wanting
more but somehow completely satisfied.

Safe House is worth a trip to the theatre. With thrillers such as this
one, the action is better on the big screen. Between the action and the
actors, you will not be disappointed. Next to Liam Neeson's The Grey,
this is one of the best action movies so far this year. The thing is,
it could have been even better. Too bad.

reillyreviews.wordpress.com
<|_=00=_|>
One of the CIA's most wanted, Tobin Frost (Denzel Washington), is back
on the run after a ten-year disappearance. This alerts the CIA and
sends their team to a gripping chase in Cape Town, South Africa. At a
remote location, the CIA's safe house is guarded by a rookie operative,
Matt Weston (Ryan Reynolds). The house have been empty for years,
involving no guests or action. At the arrival of Frost and the
intelligence, a brutal investigation occurs. Phased by the presence of
a notorious criminal, Weston becomes nervous and confused. In the midst
of questioning, mercenaries invade the house and begins a killing spree
in an effort to kidnap Frost as well. Frost reminds Weston, that as a
house guest, he is to be protected. This sends Weston to a dizzying
panic and eventually escapes along with Frost.

"Safe House" is a exhilarating action thriller with explosive stunts
and sequences. The team behind the film stages multiple exciting scenes
that involve beat down rooftops in the rural areas as well as
heart-stopping car chases along the streets. Frost is an intelligent
man. Being a former intelligence, who's gone rogue, he knows the rules
and procedures. Most of the time, he's fascinated by watching Weston
carry out his duties. Weston is continuously conflicted, looking for
ways to hide Frost. Yet, Frost never makes it easy for him, as he tries
to escape as well. Weston communicates with one of his supervisors,
David Barlow (Brendan Gleeson), to determine their next move. But, the
gunmen are determined to kill Frost, forcing Weston to take matters
into his own hands.

Denzel Washington is an actor full of intensity. He can sit there and
watch Reynolds do his thing and still convey the deepest of his
character's emotions. He gives Frost both a terrifying presence and a
sympathetic feel. Ryan Reynolds, on the other hand, manages to stand
along Washington and give the same intensity. His wits and charisma
works perfectly for his distressed rookie persona. The film succeeds
best because of this tandem, allowing the actors to build a good enough
relationship to carry out the entire film.

"Safe House" is a great action thriller with non-stop action. This is
the first mainstream feature for Daniel Espinosa and he comes forth as
promising due to his skillful camera work with the action scenes. One
of the most impressive is the rooftop chase at night. The editing is
pitch perfect as it allows the audience to feel the danger of the
situation from each point of view. This film could have been bleak and
predictable if the leads were miscast but Washington and Reynolds'
enigma make the film satisfyingly fun and fresh.

deanslisters.tumblr.com
<|_=00=_|>
In Cape Town, South Aftica, the rookie CIA agent Matt Weston (Ryan
Reynolds) is a safe house keeper and is in love with his French
girlfriend Ana Moreau (Nora Arnezeder) that does not know about his
double life. 

When the most wanted rogue and former CIA agent Tobin Frost (Denzel
Washington) surrenders to the American Consulate to escape from an
attack of dangerous soldiers of fortune, he is brought to the safe
house to be interrogated by the specialist Daniel Kiefer (Robert
Patrick) and his team. However there is a breach in the safe house and
mercenaries break in the place expecting to capture Tobin Frost and
they kill Daniel and his men. Matt escapes with Tobin and he contacts
the CIA senior management Harlan Whitford (Sam Shepard), David Barlow
(Brendan Gleeson) and Catherine Linklater (Vera Farmiga) that give
instruction to Matt to reach another safe house with the prisoner. But
Tobin warns Matt that there is an informer in the CIA and he shall not
trust in anyone. 

"Safe House" is a conventional but effective action-thriller with the
usual shootings, car chases and explosions. But the great cast, with
the charismatic Denzel Washington and Ryan Reynolds; great veteran
actors Brendan Gleeson and Sam Shepard; the always excellent Vera
Farmiga; and the gorgeous and unknown Nora Arnezeder, makes the
difference. The Hollywoodian commercial happy end is unrealistic but
certainly will pleasure a great number of viewers. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Protegendo o Inimigo" ("Protecting the Enemy")
<|_=00=_|>
Safe House is a movie that fulfils its popcorn intentions, but
metaphorically brings to mind the image of a bobble-head  a bloated
brain supported by little else, springing uncontrollably in different
directions. When the action ramps up, Safe House is at its best,
providing ample energy, a plethora or gunplay and a number of gritty
combat sequences. When pausing to forward the plot, spew exposition or
focus on perfunctory romances, it grinds to a halt. Safe House would be
better viewed with a remote equipped with a fast forward button nearby.

Thankfully for Safe House, the sequences with action outnumber those
without, so it comes out on top on a percentage basis alone. What makes
it slip just out of the realm of solid praise is that it really fails
as a tense, psychological duel of wits. I mean c'mon you have the one
of the coolest actors working today (Denzel Washington of course)
trying to escape his confines with only a lowly safe house guard (Ryan
Reynolds) in his way  use it! The trailers and radio ads prominently
feature the line "I'm already in your head", but the movie itself
offers little in the way of subtle manipulation or mind games. All we
get are a few scenes where Washington's Tobin Frost intimidates the
crap out of the inexperienced operative and forebodingly warns that the
CIA will screw him one day. 

Now that I've kicked this movie while it's down, let me tell you what
it does very well: bloodshed. I already mentioned the ample high-octane
set pieces, but of course volume of action does not always translate
directly to a solid film ("Transformers" springs to mind) it has to
bring something to the table. Safe House earns its R-rating in many an
instance with sometimes uncomfortably realistic shootouts, brutal
interrogations and wonderfully choreographed (but wince-inducing) hand-
to-hand combat sequences. If you think that John McClane looks rough at
the end of a "Die Hard" flick, wait until you see how Reynolds looks
when the credits roll. Refreshingly, this is not the kind of movie
where a character is shot, grits his teeth a little bit, holds his
wound and then ten minutes later they have apparently forgotten about
it. You feel every punch and when somebody gets stabbed they writhe on
the floor in pain and when somebody gets shot they are likely not
getting back up. 

There are also a handful of lengthy chase sequences through the streets
of Cape Town, a soccer stadium and the slums of Langa and in all
instances deliver. They are easy to follow, high-energy and far more
real-world than we're normally accustomed when talking about a
Hollywood car chase. In all of these sequences (automotive or
otherwise) we have Reynolds front and center. Safe House is really a
Ryan Reynolds movie masquerading as a Denzel Washington film, though
that is not to say Washington is relegated to a just supporting role,
it is simply more focused on our in-way-over-his-head rookie than the
lethal pro. Reynolds is the surprise here, not only holding his own
against the veteran but delivering his best mainstream performance to
date (there is not a hint of his wise-cracking The Green Lantern or
Deadpool characters to be found here). 

Curiously, there were very few one-liners delivered by Washington and
though he oozed charisma through his presence alone, I would have liked
to see a little more sizzle; one more duty that lands on the script,
which just offers nothing in the way of interesting dialogue, insights
into the mind of a killer or even a brisk pace for that matter. As a
movie to pop in the DVD player with some buds, however (one that you
can tune out the downtimes between action set pieces) it delivers
absolutely and does offer one of the rarer instances for Washington to
do his bad guy thing  a welcome sight.

Rating: 6.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
If there wasn't so much expository dialog about how formidable Denzel
Washington's rogue agent Tobin Frost is, maybe he wouldn't have to live
up to all that infamy once the story's underway.

Beginning with a botched heist in South Africa, leading to Frost
turning himself in to the C.I.A. and taken to the first of three Safe
Houses, where he's watched by a young agent Weston played by an
extremely serious Ryan Reynolds.

But there are a lot of really nasty people who want him dead, and the
first of several bombastic action scenes, practically impossible to
view as the camera rocks back and forth without ceasing, leads to
Weston, with Frost as his prisoner, taking to the streets  till Frost
shakes his tail and When the duo meet again, and we realize the bad
guys are supposed to be the good guys (like in every Hollywood film
involving the C.I.A.), it's a desperate fight for both agents, now
teamed up, to stay alive.

Washington turns in a surprisingly bland performance as a character
who, like a Hannibal Lector, is supposed to get into people's minds;
and for an agent of his legendary caliber, he seems more confused than
cunning. Reynolds holds onto a one-note scowl, and a side story with
his beautiful, put-upon girlfriend means absolutely nothing.

But it's that ever-shaky camera that really sinks this clichéd
thriller. Take plenty of sea sick pills before getting on this ride,
and prepare to blame America all over again. It's getting awfully
tiresome...

For More Reviews: www.cultfilmfreaks.com
