
Hopes were not high coming into Spy Kids: All the Time in the World. It
is the fourth film in a franchise suffering from diminishing returns,
plus it was using the stupid idea of smell-o-vision. And this family
film does not disappoint.

Marissa Wilson (Jessica Alba) is a top OSS spy who retires after
capturing a super villain, Tik Tok, and starts a family with her
husband Wilbur (Joel McHale) and stepchildren Rebecca (Rowan Blanchard)
and Cecil (Mason Cook). A year later a new villain has emerged, the
Time Keeper, who speeds up time using the Armageddon Device to punish
humanity for wasting time. Marissa is called back by the OSS director,
Danger D'Amo (Jeremy Piven), to recapture Tik Tok which should lead
them to the Time Keeper. But the Time Keeper sets out to kidnap Rebecca
and Cecil because Rebecca has the only thing that could stop the
Armageddon Device.

There are many problems with Spy Kids: All the Time in the World. It's
a cheap and unimaginative film where you could easily predict how they
would play out. We have seen these story elements so many times before:
the dad is a workaholic; there is animosity between step-mum and
step-daughter as the step-mum tries to get closer to the children; the
revelation of a lie, and so many others. The humour is crude, mostly
poo, fart and vomit gags, basically the lowest common denominator which
most children will easily outgrow. The other major route of humour is
the barrage of puns: time puns, dog puns and smell puns  we're not
stupid! The action is rudimentary; it is easy to expect much better
from Robert Rodriguez who just uses poor CGI and quick cuts. And if you
can't guess who the Time Keeper really is then you haven't seen enough
movies. Spy Kids: All the Time in the World feels like it is a movie
that is only made for a quick buck, not for any love of the material or
the need to tell a good story.

A movie aimed at children should be able to enliven their imaginations:
Spy Kids: All the Time in the World is not going to do that. The
artificial CGI scenes just look too fake for children to accept and buy
into the action and the basic predictable plot will mean that children
will not love it. Adults and parents will feel nothing but suffering
when watching this movie. This is just a mindless movie with no
imagination, which is ironic considering it makes a point that children
make better spies because they have more imagination. Children are
smart; they ask questions, see plot holes and come up with ideas
involving sci-fi concepts. The best family and children's movies are
clever, well-plotted affairs and often have good ideas behind them. Spy
Kids: All the Time in the World does not share those traits. Plus this
movie carries on the awful trend of spies with babies not working.

Most of the acting is sub-par. The child leads are bland and not
natural actors; it's your typical weak-child acting, and they are no
Chloe Mortez or Kodi Smit-McPhee. McHale was truly unconvincing as the
father and again a typical bad performance in a bad family movie. Alba
was a punch bag for gags to be bounded off on. Ricky Gervais seemed to
be having fun, but I'm sure that's because he got a paycheck for saying
bad lines in a recording studio. Piven is much the same, having fun and
just being over the top.

As movie fans we expect better from Rodriguez, who's done great movies
like Sin City, From Dusk to Dawn and the "Mexico" Trilogy. Let's hope
he is doing this movie so we can finally get Sin City 2.

And I am sure you are asking the big question  what was the
Scratch-and-Sniff card like? It was just a bunch of sickly sweet smells
and simply just a gimmick. But you already knew that.
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed the first two Spy Kids films, they were fun,
entertaining and ideal family films. Spy Kids 3 was rather mediocre and
disappointing, but any horrible assets that film had was nothing
compared to this.

When I entered the theatre to watch this, yes I wanted to see it
despite the trailer not looking that good, I thought if it is bad
surely it can't be as bad as The Adventures of Sharkboy and LavaGirl. I
was wrong, as awful as that film was Spy Kids 4 takes the cake as
Rodriguez's worst film.

The film for starters looks cheap. The camera work at best is odd, and
the effects lack clarity. The gadgets looked cool from the outset but
once the nappy bombs for instance are introduced they lose their appeal
very quickly.

I didn't think much of the soundtrack either. I found it rather generic
here rather than jaunty and memorable. And Rodriguez's direction is his
most unfocused and inept directing job in my opinion of his career.

The script is awful, relying far too much on tired slapstick and
heavy-handed messaging, while the story is rushed and much too thin for
the film's running time and the action is dull and not helped by the
haphazard editing.

Acting-wise, this film is disappointing. It was nice to be Daryl
Sabarra and Alexa Vega here but other than the basic concept of the
movie, them and Rodriguez, there seemed to be no connection to its
predecessors. The new kids do what they can, but they aren't as
confident or as appealing.

Jeremy Piven does give his all into a very underwritten and
uninteresting villain part and his two other roles as well but at
points it feels like he's overdoing it. Danny Trejo is wasted, Antonio
Banderas was cut which is yet another reason why this doesn't feel like
a Spy Kids movie, Jessica Alba does nothing with her role other than
look pretty, while even Ricky Gervais is flat.

The cast are not helped by how their characters are written. The
characters here are so cardboard, it is difficult to engage with them
on any level.

Overall, despite the trailer I was all for seeing this film. But it was
awful(as part of a franchise and on its own terms) and a big
disappointment. 1/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I have often said that in order to enjoy mindless movies like
"Transformers", we should "leave our brains at the door of the
cineplex". Well, in order to enjoy this "Spy Kids" sequel, we need to
lower our IQ to the level of four-year olds! 'Mindlessness' doesn't
quite cut it, it is juvenile indulgence, meaning, it is only for kids
below five.

And if you have been following the cinema ads and promos, you would
know that this movie comes in 4D - with the added dimension of 'smell'.
For that, viewers are given a numbered card (called Aroma-Scope) so
that they can scratch-and-smell when the number appears on the screen.
This is a childish gimmick aimed at kids. For adults, it is more of a
nuisance because the scents are faint and the exercise distracts us
from the action on the screen. Although there are many fart and poop
scenes, the Aroma-Scope only provides scents of chewing gum and other
edible stuff (thank goodness for that). History has demonstrated that
all smell-o-vision gimmicks mostly stink.

Marissa Cortez Wilson (Jessica Alba) is such a dedicated spy that even
when she is nine months pregnant, she manages to take down notorious
villain Tick Tock (Jeremy Piven) before going into labor and retiring
from her spy duties. Her aim is to devote all her time to her newborn
and her step-kids, Rebecca (Rowan Blanchard) and Cecil (Mason Cook) and
hubby Wilbur (Joey McHale).

Soon, however, she may not have that much time. One year later, Tick
Tock and accomplice, The Timekeeper (also Piven), are back at their
attempt to rob the world of 'time' - and Rebecca, Cecil and their
'guard dog' Argonaut (voice of Ricky Gervais) must save the world (what
else?). Also, they team up with Marissa's niece and nephew, Carmen and
Juni Cortez (Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara reprising their former Spy
Kids roles) to make this mission a family reunion of sorts.

Writer-director Robert Rodriguez seems to be milking the same old
cinema-script cow, urging parents to spend more time with their kids.
This 'message' has been used by almost all family movies throughout the
decade. The time-theft and time-travel conceits can be puzzling to
children even if they allow Rodriguez to make use of all sorts of
time-related gags. Of course, Rodriguez cannot resist the poop and fart
gags, as well as throwing food all over the place. These, I understand,
are the laugh-out-loud staple for American kids below five.

Among the cast, Blanchard and Cook are suitably cute and effective as
the new title characters. Bringing back former Spy Kids, Vega and
Sabara, is a good idea, adding a nostalgic touch for parents in the
audience. Ditto that for Danny Trejo's short cameo as Uncle Machete.
However, the irony of Daddy Wilbur being a 'Spycatcher' on TV is lost
on the kids and scores no points with the adults.

As for Jessica Alba (as Marissa, the younger sister to Antonio
Bandera's character), she provides the main box-office lure, nothing
more. Strictly kids' stuff. (limchangmoh.blogspot.com)
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is not only the worst movie of the summer, it could possibly
be the worst movie I have ever seen. I took my two boys aged 7 and 4 to
watch this sorry excuse for a movie. The boys actually were fairly
entertained, but I must say they are not exactly seasoned veterans of
the movie watching experience.

We saw it in 2D but also had the '4th D' experience. This amounted to a
card they gave you that you scratch and sniff at certain points during
the movie. It is a horrible gimmick that does not even work. I
scratched as hard as I could and could only smell a faint flowery
smell. That is only one minor flaw of the movie.

The other flaws are as follow. The acting is horrendous. How they
continue to let Jessica Alba act and even STAR in a movie is a decision
that some Hollywood exec will eventually pay for with their job. Her
lack of acting abilities were only surpassed by the rest of the cast.
But it was not entirely their fault as the film's basic plot and script
was about as thin as Kate Moss on a hunger strike.

So what do you combine with horrible acting, a thin plot and countless
moronic lines written by the worst screen writers they could dig up?
Mindless violence that is not suitable for small children. This movie
is supposed to be about spy kids I presumed, based on the title. Most
of the scenes and actions were played out by adults and the plethora of
punching and kicking scenes was immature and detrimental to young,
easily influenced minds.

This movie is disturbing for young children and is completely
inappropriate for children of all ages. It also is so horribly acted
and the screenplay so ill-conceived that adults are left wondering how
in the world Hollywood can continue to put out such dribble and expect
us to shell out our hard earned dollars on such mindless
'entertainment.'

To sum it all up, avoid this movie at all costs. Even if your children
have seen the other versions and beg you to see it be strong and
suggest alternatives. Show Hollywood that you will not be swayed by
their slick advertising and inept film-making.
<|_=00=_|>
...Took the family (5 year old son, 2.5 year old daughter) to see Sky
Kids 4 today..

Speaking as an adult who saw all 3 of the original SPY KIDS movies in
the theatre, this is easily the worst of the series. Joel Mchale (who i
have actually become a fan of based off his THE SOUP and COMMUNITY
work), Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara give some incredibly bad
performances. Embarrassingly-so. Jessica Alba does what Jessica Alba
does (thank the Gods she's cute and met Robert Rodriguez), and Jeremy
Piven....actually i liked Piven. His character had an interesting
story- arc, and he gives a solid performance.

Some of Ricky Gervais' one-liners were funny, too.

The rest of the film was pretty unbearable. 

However, speaking as a parent who was out hoping to show his kids a
good time, i actually have to give this movie a solid rating. My 2 kids
enjoyed the heck out of it, from the talking dog to the baby decking a
bad guy, the kids loved it. And my son had a lot of fun keeping track
of when to engage the AROMASCOPE scratch card. 

A nice film for younger families, i think.
<|_=00=_|>
I love the Spy Kids movies - even Spy Kids 3, despite its flaws.

When they announced that Spy Kids 4 was on the way, I had mixed
feelings. Yeah, it was cool to see another Spy Kids movie on the way
and as the cast was locked into place, seeing Alexa Vega and Darryl
Sabarra coming back was a total blast. Then it started to get a bit
worrying with news of the gimmick of smell-o-vision being used to try
and sell this one.

The end result? A big mess. On the plus side, the effects and the 3D in
this are better than they have been in previous outings. There is some
fun to be had seeing Juny and Carmen come back as grown up Spy Kids and
there are some nice little links to the original trilogy. The new Spy
Kids are kinda fun but not as cool or engaging as the original two and
Jessica Alba is pretty game to put up with some of the crap she's put
through here. And some giggles can be had from Ricky Gervais' spy dog
and Jeremy Piven's multiple appearances.

That said, the smell-o-vision thing is just plain distracting (granted,
it's not overdone and is largely confined to the starting 20 minutes)
with the large numbers flashing on screen and beeping to make sure you
actually do scratch and sniff. The comedy is far too heavy handed and
relies more on poop and fart jokes than in previous outings and is
aimed strictly at the lowest common denominator - talk about dumbing
down! And the message is hammered home with all the finesse and
subtlety of sledgehammer to the crotch. There are numerous times where
the whole "spend time with your kids/parents" is said direct to camera
and after about the third or fourth time, it gets preachy.

It's a shame that Robert Rodriguez felt the need to restart the series
with such a lame and heavy handed mess, given just how much fun the
first three had to offer. And, on a personal note, I was gutted to see
that Uncle Machete was relegated to a blink and you miss him cameo
after being built up so well. Aah well, I'm guessing there are plans
for another couple movies so there's a chance that it can redeem itself
but I think that after this, it's gonna have to work hard!
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think this was a bad film, granted it wasn't a good film but
for me I couldn't help relate it back to the original movies and in
that sense I think it did well, it didn't stray too far from the
original plot lines and I liked that because I was afraid after all
these years it would have changed completely.

So many of these reviews rate it as "cheep and crappy", well it's
definitely cheap, the graphics are pretty much exactly the same as the
original films and its not going to win any awards for being a
brilliant flick but the movie wasn't made for YOU, it was made for the
kids.

I think as a kids movie, or family movie, it does well and I believe
the children will love it just as I loved the originals when I was
younger. Yes the plot is cliché and predictable but to a kid it's a
whole other world where they can be a hero without growing up.
<|_=00=_|>
The real purpose of a movie is to entertain (escapism) - to distance
you from your problems for a short period of time. If you will look at
this movie from the perspective of a person viewing movies for
entertainment purposes, then this movie is good (not very good since
there are a lot of better escapist movies out there). If you look at it
from the perspective of a movie critic, then this is a horrible movie,
filled with clichés and poop jokes.

The first film of this franchise may have had some cliché plot points,
but it didn't rely on poop and fart jokes to move the story or try to
make the viewer laugh.

This movie has the usual 'stepdaughter-hates-stepmom' and the 'geeky
brother' story lines along with the happily ever after ending. It seems
the movie thinks that watching these story lines is entertaining to
kids, when in fact, it's not (speaking from my perspective as a 13 year
old kid). To be frank, it's quite annoying.

However, this movie doesn't lack on the entertainment value. CGI
all-around, gadgets everywhere, this movie has tons of cool stuff to
keep the viewer at the edge of their seat. There are jokes that if you
watch first may seem funny, but in the end will make you think "is that
joke really funny, or is it offensive".

Bottomline is, this movie can be good or bad, depending on your
perspective. To me, it's escapism at its finest.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm aware that many people like to encounter films as a small,
unchallenging adventure. That isn't possible with me, but I have
something similar: sometimes a simple film is a relaxed encounter with
the filmmaker, a sort of illustrated visit in his home.

I like Rodriguez. I like his joy in image and his independent
enthusiasm. I do not ever expect him to produce something that changes
my life, like fellow Austinite Malick can. But sometimes you just want
to hang out. One thing that is impressive is knowing that he creates
his films mostly in his own studio with greenscreen, networked to
special effects subcontractors. He must have had to do things that few
others do in order for his work to seamlessly integrate with his life.

So, though there is nothing profound about him except his passion,
visiting a film can simply relax into that passion. I am particularly
hooked on the Spy Kids franchise because the first one had so many
inside references to old AI tools and techniques that I assume he
worked very closely with someone from that era, perhaps even someone I
know. Perhaps it was a side effect from setting up his personal
production infrastructure.

But it also because I know he is coming at this as a dad who enjoys his
kids and basically wants to share at a cinematic level. That is why,
for instance that I tolerate the over top 'dad message' about the
importance of spending time with your kids now rather than be absent in
a studio. (Yes, that is the basic plot.)

The first film was themed on AI as mentioned. The second on genetics,
and the third on a Tron-like game. This one plays  in the most
superficial way  with speculations on parallel universes and time
joins. 

Others will inform about the amazingly bad acting by both pairs of
siblings, the really off- beat pacing and the general heavy-handed
nature of the thing. But under all that is a genuine human, being
genuine and open, inviting us into the world he decorated himself
(there's a joke about that). Where else but with Rose's influence will
you get a superspy kicking butt first as she goes into labor and later
with the baby strapped on her chest. That alone will stick with you.

Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm so glad I loved this movie. It's not normal that so many people
find it so bad. So much resentment, such poor capacity of wonder... I
hope you people do find the time to spend with your loved ones. Loved
the message, loved the way it all flowed. I had a great time. A great
experience to share with wife and kid. The acting is actually nice. The
special fx are just enough. Not eccentric, not about visual wonder, but
rather just perfectly adapted to convey purpose and meaning. The
scenery is excellent. The script consistent. Predictable? So what? Is
there anything more predictable than death? And that doesn't stop us
from living. Nor does that stop us from enjoying life. It's not an
excuse. I love this movie.
