
Shhh.... Did you hear that?... Peter?... Peter?!... Peter!...
Peeeter!!... Ashley!...Ashley?... Ashley!....ASHLEY!...
Aaaashleeey!!... Aaashleeey!....James?... Jaaames!...Lisa!...
Liiisaaaa!... Peter?... Peter!!!.... Lane?... Laaane?.... Talia?...
Talia!.... Ashley?... James???... Lisa? ... Liiisaaaa!... HEY! All of
you just shut the f**k up! It's over! OK? Take it down a notch. It's
finally done. What started in 1999 with a unique low-budget, cleverly
executed and promoted, and genuinely creepy little indie film, finally
ended in 2016 with a ridiculous corporate big-budget hackneyed piece of
shhhh...did you hear that?... Ashley?... Ashley?.... ASHLEY!
<|_=00=_|>
So much for months of hype starting with The Woods trailer months ago
which was eventually revealed to be this film.

You want scary? You won't find it here unless you've never seen one of
the Insiduous/Paranormal Activity/Conjuring clones to come out in the
past 5 years. It uses the exact same scare tactics that made those
films so successful, bringing nothing but a completely derivative
experience to the table. 

This completely failed to capture anything that made the original such
a disturbing experience. They replaced subtlety and dread with loud
sound effects, jump scares, and video game glimpses of clich√© figures. 

Did you see VHS? Did you handle it well? Congrats, you'll have zero
problems sitting through Blair Witch. The first segment of VHS and the
religious cult segment of part 2 are both scarier than the entirety of
this film. 

The worst part is Wingard and his crew don't even attempt to bring any
original story elements to the table. This is literally a rehash of the
original story with more characters and a flying drone with updated
cameras. And don't expect to have the experience enhanced by any of
these. 

It's funny that even with the new expanses in technology they still
couldn't make this thing more interesting than something that was
filmed with 1999 equipment. 

This isn't a spiritual successor to The Blair Witch Project, it's a
found footage jump scare film for millennials who loved VHS and
Paranormal Activity. I'm stumped as to who this was even made for.
Certainly not people who saw the original in 1999 like me. We're a
little too old to fall for this shtick.
<|_=00=_|>
Here I was, expecting a continuation to a truly scary "lost in the
woods" simulator. What I received was a couple of American teenagers
getting picked off one by one by the supernatural - as usual in low
effort horrors.

The Blair Witch Project (1999) was good, because it was trying to be
realistic. Heather, Josh and Michael for all their faults weren't
lacking chromosomes, unlike the protagonists of the sequel/reboot. 

James, Lisa, Ashley, Peter, Lane and Talia - each one of them makes 12
y.o children look like master tacticians. One terribly stupid decision
follows another.

Let me kick around parts of my tent, because I'm a choleric who can't
put it up in 5 minutes. Let me just go gather firewood alone, in the
middle of the night, losing line of sight with the camp. Let me climb
this tree, even though I could barely stand 10 minutes ago, because of
the fever and leg wounds. See a creepy dolls hanging around? Oh, look
at this one - not only it looks like a human being, but also it has
some hair of this crying, scared out of her wits girl. I see no reason
I shouldn't snap it in half, dealing with a witch and all.

When I saw the preparations - GPS, drones, portable radios I thought I
was in for a great, well-written story that despite the wonders of
technology will show how helpless a man can be versus nature (and a
curse). I wasn't wrong about the last part, but I didn't expect the
witch to be a REC-zombie rip-off walking EMP. You know that electronic
devices known for their reliability in survival situations? They don't
work anymore. Why? F*** you, that's why.

It's extremely hard to watch. I considered leaving the theater
mid-session, because I felt insulted by just watching it, but I managed
to endure it to the end.

I felt relief when the last survivor got picked off the same way her
friend was few seconds ago. She SAW it happen and then she did the same
thing herself nonetheless. "I'm free now" I thought "and nothing of
value was lost".

The only reason I didn't grade it with 1 star, is because of my respect
for Blair Witch Project (1999). Yeah, it started the whole 'found
footage' fad, but it was original and scary for someone who lived near
the woods for most of his life.
<|_=00=_|>
It's 16 years too late for most people, but this was EXACTLY what I
wanted from a Blair Witch sequel.

I found it very effective and I loved the story. With the exception of
the unethical marketing campaign, it has everything that made the first
movie effective and then some. (Yes, I know the marketing is MOSTLY
what people found effective about the first film, but that magic can
never be captured again, so let it go.)

My only complaint is that there were too many false jump scares.

If you're not burnt out on found footage and you're open to the idea of
a Blair Witch sequel, give it a shot.

There's not much else to say without spoilers. I just wanted to stop by
and offset some of the hate.
<|_=00=_|>
James Donahue finds a recently-uploaded video, containing an image
which he believes to be his sister Heather who disappeared in the woods
near Burkittsville, Maryland while investigating the legend of the
Blair Witch. Believing she is still alive, James makes plans to head
into the woods, accompanied by friends Peter Jones, Ashley Bennett, and
film student Lisa Arlington, who wants to make her own documentary
based on James' search. Local residents Talia and Lane, who uploaded
the footage from a video tape they found in the woods, join them on
their search.

Upon entering the woods, Ashley cuts her foot while the group is
crossing a shallow creek. Setting up camp for the night, Lane and Talia
discuss the disappearance of Heather's film crew, as well as other
mysterious occurrences in the region, all of which they ascribe to the
Blair Witch. After hearing noises in the woods during the night, and
after inexplicably oversleeping until 2.00pm, they find strange stick
figures twined together hanging from the trees surrounding their camp.
Unnerved, the four friends elect to head home, despite Lane and Talia's
reluctance. Lisa notices a roll of twine in Lane's backpack and accuses
him of crafting the stick figures as a prank. Lane and Talia are kicked
out of the group, after admitting to the ruse. After several hours'
walking, the four arrive back at their original campsite, their GPS
information proving to be inaccurate. Lisa sends up a drone to obtain
an aerial fix of their location, but it malfunctions and crashes into
the trees. Ashley develops a fever and becomes bedridden. The team is
forced to camp again as night falls and Peter goes to gather firewood.
After hearing strange sounds, he is chased by an unseen force which
causes a tree to collapse, gravely wounding him. James, hearing Peter's
cries, searches for him but only finds his flashlight by the collapsed
tree.

During the night, James and Lisa hear more sounds outside their tent.
Moments later, Lane and Talia emerge looking haggard, claiming they
have been wandering in the woods for five or more days without a single
sunrise. Believing that he is hallucinating, Lane runs off while Talia
begs for food and then sits by the fire and stares blankly. The
following morning, James and Lisa are stunned to find that the sun
indeed has not risen. Emerging from their tents, they discover many
stick figures, much larger than those crafted by Lane, surrounding
their camp. Talia recognizes clumps of her own hair tied to one of the
stick figures. Ashley awakens and, devastated by the news of Peter's
disappearance, blames Talia for their plight, spitefully snapping her
stick figure in half. Talia then crumples to the ground, her body
grossly mangled, twisted and broken, before an invisible presence
attacks and causes them to flee in blind panic. Ashley gets separated
and removes a strange object out of her leg, inexplicably embedded in
her wound. She falls to her death trying to recover the drone, stuck
high in a nearby tree. The camera shows her body being dragged out of
the frame by an unseen force.

A rainstorm envelops the woods as Lisa and James stumble outside a
house which matches the one seen in Lane's video. James looks up and
believes he spots his sister in an upstairs window. Despite Lisa's
pleas, he enters the house and becomes trapped in an upstairs room.
Lisa is terrified by the brief sight of an emaciated entity and runs
inside, ending up in the basement. She finds a crazed and now
heavily-bearded Lane, who traps her in an underground tunnel. Lisa
forces herself through the narrow and muddy crawlspace and emerges back
in the basement and stabs Lane in self-defense. Chased by the entity
she glimpsed outside, Lisa runs upstairs, seeing the same reflection in
the mirror that James thought was his sister. She reunites with James
and they flee to the attic and lock the door behind them. A bright
white light passes through the cracks and windows of the attic before
the door is forced open. James tells Lisa to face the corner of the
room. He desperately apologizes to Lisa for their fate before the Blair
Witch causes him to think that his sister is speaking to him. James
turns around and dies. Lisa uses Lane's camcorder to indirectly view
what is behind her and begins walking backwards in the hope she can
escape. She hears the witch imitate James' words of apology again and,
believing him to be alive, turns around before being attacked
off-screen. The camera abruptly drops to the floor. The screen cuts to
black.
<|_=00=_|>
I was and still am a huge fan of the first original 1999 film and when
I saw the previews for this one it seemed the writing was sticking to
the original's story which got me excited. The initial sequels back in
the early 2000's were terrible which also made me go into this movie
with doubts...but boy was I wrong. This movie is sticking to the roots
of limited budget and total isolation which made the first such a great
film. Both the original and this new Blair Witch have a unique
realistic feel of total isolation which makes the film instantly
creepy.

There are 3 things which make this a perfect horror movie.
1."Build-up/Anticipation": This movie and also series has perfected
building up their horror such as the likes of Alien, which follow the
idea of only showing the "creature/evil entity" only a few times or if
at all until the vary end and even in the end only show it a few times.
This style makes it much more frightening as your uncertain of the
whereabouts of it and also when it will appear next. The original 1999
version didn't even show a witch which still left people guessing on
whether or not it was actually a witch or possibly something else like
a crazy man or themselves turning on each other. But the 2016 version
solidifies that it was in fact a witch and also that they were turning
on each other in both the 1999 and 2016 groups. 

2."Total Isolation": Being completely isolated with no one able to come
across you or with no ability to send word for help in a dire situation
is scary enough even if its not a horror movie, so its no coincidence
that a movie based on people being lost in the woods would garner fear.
The Black hills forest in the movie is isolated in two ways, one is the
fear of the local population to venture in it due to its reputation,
and two the witches curse on the woods keep small groups trapped by
interfering with their navigation and manipulating time. 

3."Helplessness": Being utterly helpless or giving up and excepting
your situation is helpless is a bitter pill to swallow and will break
many people, for example getting your leg trapped under a rock while
hiking or being surrounded and besieged during war. This helplessness
becomes more and more apparent as the movie goes on, some of the cast
give up and serve the witch and others continue to fight till their
deaths. You really see the horror of this helplessness when Lisa is in
the tunnel trying to escape and gets stuck, this is a very good scene
as she almost breaks down and gives up but keeps fighting. Other
characters such as Lane and James give up entirely and serve the witch.
Despite us the viewer cheering for Lisa or Heather in the two movies to
finally make their way out of the forest it is hopeless and makes true
that all who venture alone or in a small group into the Black hills
forest will not make it out alive.
<|_=00=_|>
I fully understand the reasonable popular criticisms of "Blair Witch"
(2016). But I'd be lying if I said I didn't really enjoy it ¬ó I'd give
it an 8 out of 10.

Yes, it's largely a retread of the first film in 1999. This putative
sequel is effectively a remake, given how closely it parallels the
original. (And there are a lot of people who hated that movie to start
with.)

There are other problems too. A subplot's non sequitur segue into body
horror is entirely out of place, for example, and we have at least two
characters who are so irritating that we can't care much about their
fate. And then there are some missed opportunities involving
technology. (Much attention is paid to a drone that the ill-fated
protagonists bring along in their trek into the woods, but it is
underused later in the story.)

Still ¬Ö this still worked for me. I have always really liked found-
footage horror movies, and I also like stories featuring local legends.
(They're just more engaging to me than yet another slasher film or
third-rate, no-budget zombie movie.) And there are a couple of moments
of brilliance. The scariest has already been spoiled by the film's
trailer (seriously, f*** you, Lionsgate marketing department). But
there are other nice touches ¬Ö one is the dread- inducing,
reality-bending story arc of the two locals who accompany the main
protagonists. (And weren't these two supporting characters the most fun
and interesting, anyway?)

And we indeed finally get glimpses of the titular Blair Witch! They are
brief and few, but they're a damned effective, scary payoff.

All in all, this is still an offbeat horror outing in the same vein as
the original, and I think the better parts made it a decent viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
What were people expecting? The same movie as the original, or
something extremely different? As for me, I thought Blair Witch was a
pretty good modern take on the series. Is it perfect? No. Is it the
same as the original? Well, they become quite tonally different
halfway. In the second half, the new one tries something different at
the cost of people moaning about it revealing too much now.

I personally am glad the new Blair Witch is not exactly the same. I
thought it was logical for the sequel to build up from its simplicity
to something more intense. The last 20 minutes in particular was quite
nerve-wracking, and the ending is no worse than what the original Blair
Witch Project did. I think the problem is that when The Blair Witch
Project came out, it was a groundbreaking low budget film that made its
scariness effective though simplicity.

The new Blair Witch didn't want to retread the "exact" same ground the
entire time, so they tried to make the second half different to try and
appease the people who found the first film boring as hell. The result
is mixed on people saying it's too different from the original, or too
similar to other found footage films. I think they got the balance just
right here, and the characters for the majority of the time made
reasonable decisions and had good equipment with them to justify all of
the recording and situations they were in. 

If there's a significant flaw I can point out with it, then the "jump
scares" were maybe done too much to the point where a character says to
stop doing that. However, make no mistake, this movie is pretty
terrifying. I still prefer the original though, but of all the found
footage movies I've seen, Blair Witch has quite a significant amount of
effort put into it.

7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Found footage films are more often than not boring and irritating. 

Some are good and try and give the audience something different. Sadly
Blair Witch doesn't even attempt to offer anything new. At all. 

All this movie offers is lots of shots of trees by flashlight and one
of my particular irritations - the cheap jump scare. This is the jump
scare that has no pay off, such as one character turning round and
there is another character that appears out of nowhere and BOOM! -
leading to the first character saying 'don't do that!'

Garbage. 

If your idea of fun is watching a group of boring people running around
in the dark for over an hour, screaming then this is the movie for you. 

How I laughed at the skinny naked woman briefly seen now and then. Its
like a computer game monster. 

The Blair Witch seemingly has the ability to bend time at her will.
Seemed to work on me too, I thought this turkey would never end.
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised when the mysterious woods movie turned out to be a
direct Blair Witch Project sequel and this excited me. After literally
starting a genre with the original on no budget I figured they'd
perform miracles with 5 million dollars! Trouble is, they really
didn't. In fact I'd say they really really really REALLY didn't. Blair
Witch follows the same formula as the original, in that the movie is 90
minutes of found footage, poor character development, thinly veiled
storyline, shaky camera fleeing and lots and lots of screaming.

If you are expecting further additions to the Blair Witch mythology you
will be sorely let down as this is essentially more like a higher
budget remake of the original than a sequel and damn near nothing
happens yet again.

I figured that regardless this could never be as bad as Blair Witch 2:
Book Of Shadows but incredibly I was wrong as this is truly
unconditionally dire.
