
â€Ž1 star. Shim Hyung-Rae has some kind of ego. He takes money from
fellow Korean investors, goes to the Paramount lot in Hollywood, and
shoots this self-indulgent and unwatchable "film." Harvey Keitel,
Michael Rispoli, and Jason Mewes, am...ong others, try in absolute vain
to save this wreck and bring some form of realism to the proceedings.
Maybe they shouldn't have bothered. It's like Shim saw a couple mob
films and wanted to recreate them without any knowledge of the genre.
Worst of all, his Younggu character comes across as being the worst
Asian stereotype to grace the screen in a long time...with his broken
accent, combed over hair, stumbling, and bad teeth. It's impossible to
even watch this thing. He even tries to throw in a "magical" musical
number that is his montage to the Hollywood greats but just seems
random. There were maybe 7 people in the auditorium....5 walked out
before the end. Maybe I should've as well, I was just too curious to
see how this monstrosity would end.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw it in Busan a few days ago and my two friends and I all agree
that it is probably the worst film we have ever seen. I am British and
my two friends are both American so its certainly not a case of us
having a homogeneous sense of humour yet we all felt that 'The Last
Godfather' was so bad that we actually left the cinema about an hour
and ten minutes in.

The film was absolutely terrible in every possible way and it saddened
me to see a Hollywood legend like Harvey Keitel stoop so low. Slapstick
can certainly be entertaining, Rowan Atkinson and Charlie Chaplin are
two good examples of actors that make me laugh heartily but this was
just puerile drivel. I am honestly finding it hard to give a sober and
balanced perspective on this film when I'm enraged at just how flat,
predictable and pathetic it was.
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer didn't look all that abysmal and it actually looked like it
could have been kind of funny with John Pinette and Harvey Keitel.
Please keep in mind that trailers are extremely misleading and this
movie was NOT funny by any means. Sure, there were some chuckles, but
it gets old real quick and you'll be wishing the movie would end sooner
rather than later, believe me.

The story revolves around Don Carini (Keitel) and his decision to step
down and retire as Godfather. Rather than promoting from within, he
drops the bomb on his gang that he had an affair while in Asia with a
woman that ultimately led to him fathering a child. The child in
question is one Younggu (Shim, who also wrote and directed this turd),
a mentally-challenged grown man who is to acting what Uwe Boll is to
directing. Once the young successor arrives to the Don's home, he is
met by the Don's gang with skepticism. The Don has Tony (Rispoli) and
Macho (Pinette) look after his son and train him to be the next Don...
but we all know what happens next, Younggu fouls everything up,
inadvertently falls for the competition's daughter, Nancy Bonfante
(Donahue) and just basically tries to play everything on screen for
laughs, even if it isn't funny.

I don't mind screwball comedies if they're funny. This one just wasn't
funny. It was painfully bad, with some of the worst acting I've ever
seen by a writer/director/star. The main character is so annoying and
unfunny, that I was just begging to see the end credits. I don't know
what Keitel, Pinette and Mewes were thinking by signing on to do this
dog of a film. It actually made about $17 million overseas, which is a
complete shock to me. I guess even actors need to pay the bills
sometimes.

You might be tempted to watch/buy or see this one for Keitel, but I
urge you to rethink that decision because the movie just gets worse as
it goes along. Just when you think it couldn't get any worse, it tops
itself and plays the scenes for the utter ridiculous and zany. I've
been trying really hard to find one good thing to say about this movie
ever since I started writing the review and I just can't do it. About
the only thing that this film can say it did well was the production
values and filming. It does have a Hollywood-feel, meaning it doesn't
look like it was filmed in my backyard and the sound is good. Yes,
there was a few funny moments because of Younggu's antics, but they
were more out of pity and sheer lunacy, like a shake- my- head- from-
side- to- side- I- can't- believe- they- would-resort- to- that- kind-
of- humor kind of laugh. If anything, watch it for John Pinette, he's
able to make you laugh just with his expressions alone.

More reviews at www.soveryterry.com

Final Grade: F
<|_=00=_|>
This film is not brilliant in terms of plot however it does what it is
meant to do - make you laugh! I admit that they are no comedian jokes
just silly jokes like falling over and hitting a person with a baseball
bat by accident.

This film made me laugh quite a lot when I watched it because it made
my family laugh too. These type of films make some kinds of people
laugh, not all!

This film is not designed for kids however I think that kids will enjoy
this film more that adults as the film don't contain any adult jokes
just pure silly falling down and clumsiness. 

I am giving this a fair rating which is 5/5 = Moderate/OK film!
<|_=00=_|>
If you ask me this film is underrated. It was nice and funny so it is
worth watching. There is other movies like this in the same genre like
this one and almost the same plot but I personally find this one really
amusing and somehow unique comedy. 

The story is not the typical "romance and the mafia" and there is
something in the main character which reminds me for Jim Carrey's
movies (but in different way). The movie is non violence. No real or
fake blood. The shooting scenes are filmed in a really fun way.The
storyline is simple and easy to follow. Just like I mentioned there is
other movies like this with almost similar storyline but this got much
more fun action in it.
<|_=00=_|>
Sure The last Godfather is silly and stereotypical. It's also nice and
sometimes very funny. Just look at it the same way as you looked at
good old slapstick. We don't expect Buster Keaton and Laurel and Hardy
to be politically correct, do we? Besides spoofing the mafia genre it
also turns Romeo and Juliet into a comedy. Those who complain about the
"retarded Asian" stereotype - Younggu is also a very likable character.
Moreover he wins, after accidentally inventing new fashion and the Big
Mac. There is no need to leave your house to watch this in cinema, but
there is no need to avoid it when on television either. It could have
done with more jokes and not all of them are great. Still there are
enough for some silly enjoyment.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is bafflingly bad in such a beautiful way. I genuinely am
unsure whether they knew this movie would be bad or not. Harvey Keitel
plays a mafia don who passes his empire on to his oafish Korean son
(who looks about the same age as Keitel) Young-gu. Young-gu is such a
bizarre character. His decisions make no sense except to get him into
wacky farcical situations. Along the way he falls in love with a woman
who is young enough to be his granddaughter. He also literally changes
the dynamic of the world (invents the beehive, mini skirt and big mac).
I don't know why this movie exists or how it got the quality of stars
it has (was this really the best job offer Harvey Keitel got?). This
movie is a must watch for fans of very bad movies. The plot is
nonsense, the characters motivations boil down to being goofy and the
entire premise is flawed. If you want to watch an old Korean man act
like a cartoon character and Harvey Keitel try to work around that, I
highly recommend The Last Godfather. If you want to watch a good movie,
watch literally anything else.
<|_=00=_|>
what a fun movie . i have to say i watched it twice and although found
some parts corny , other parts made my son and i chuckle . i can see
why harvey wanted to do this film . where some other reviewers miss the
point , harvey obviously does not . the film does try to go "deep" and
yet manages to skim the surface more often then not and occasionally
take a nose dive or two or three.... to some degree the humor is not
unlike the film " they call me bruce ". it is slapstick humor that
sometimes makes it and other times falls flat on it's face. some of the
acting is strong while other times way overboard . there is a little
something for everybody . if nothing else , a redeeming factor is the
film tries to show beauty is more then skin deep and how pure and
simple love should be . what is wrong with that ? i disagree with the
reviewers that trash it . i suggest you watch and decide for yourself.
know going in this is not going to win any awards but then again
sometimes those awards miss the point also !
<|_=00=_|>
"A mafia boss trains his mentally impaired son as his successor." I
must confess that I have read few film synopses guilty of such
derision. I must then admit that even few-ER films one-up themselves in
the Shame Quotient as the South Korean/American co-production, The Last
Godfather, has done to itself by naming the "impaired son"-->
YOUNG-GOO.

This must be the South Korean progression of our
dreadfully-Americanized "Fockers" (Meet the Parents etc.) which --
itself -- couldn't help but play/flail around with "the godFocker" term
a few times on its very own (in its third "film" in the franchise).

Both films star Harvey Keitel (Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction, Cop Land,
Thelma & Louise) -- !!! TRIPLE EXCLAMATION POINTS IN-ALL-CAPS !!! --
and his career can go NO lower. The once highly-respected and lauded
Keitel was at-one-time an elusive "get". Try explaining The Piano
(shall I dare this upon anyone ... anyone?), Bad Lieutenant, Get Shorty
or Bugsy. His appreciation for craft and the art of movie-making has
been hijacked by a lesser-actor going through the motions for a
paycheck.

I wouldn't bemoan the "loss" of a single actor to this
greedy-phenomenon if it didn't actually lessen the entire medium and
produce shoddy product. Keitel is just one of the latest in the stream
of Hollywood-ized (as I'm sure it is global) sell-outs and the only
reason he is getting my time-of-day (at present) is because there is
nothing else of interest to mention in this bizarrely juvenile and
despicable The Tardfather.

Yes -- cringe -- I could cry foul ... but isn't that the word they were
REALLY aiming for all along?. This isn't much of a review; but a film
this degrading and horrid doesn't deserve much. It is SHAME-less and
low-brow. It aims for groans and NOT laughs. It insults those on screen
and those-of-us unfortunate enough in an audience trying to give it a
chance. It saddens me knowing that Harvey Keitel has this on his
resume. It should mean nothing to me; but it IS tragic.

Run from this ... avoid it! I am hoping Keitel hasn't nailed the LAST
coffin into his career with this wretched piece of _______.
<|_=00=_|>
Hello. 

First I am Korean. I know a lot about this movie and the directer.
Actually, in Korea, lots people have been arguing about the quality of
this movie.

Yes! Most adult Koreans do not like this movie and the rating is very
low like here, but children do like this movie and seem to enjoy a lot. 

If you have kids and wanna see one movie with them this is for you, but
if you expect a really fun comedy movie for adults this may not be your
movie.

Thanks for reading this.
