
I was looking forward to this since the moment I saw the trailer and so
got myself out of bed for the 10:05 am showing on opening day. It
looked funny, like 'Shaun of the Dead,' and seemed to have its own
interesting take, which is rare in the zombie genre. Usually the plots
of zombie films are about as aimless as the zombies. The best way to
describe this film is a zombie romantic comedy. It does have some
action and some tense moments later on but the initial set up is the
zombie, R's, emotional growth and how meeting this girl sparks
something in him to evolve. This is nothing like 'Twilight,' and those
that are saying that have either not seen it or are too absorbed in the
fact that the two leads are good looking, which is the only commonality
this film has with 'Twilight.'But, let's face it, the majority of leads
in films are attractive, so, that's not much to base a similarity on.
'Shaun of the Dead' was just a comedy, where this is a comedy with
heart and depth. It's a satire, but they don't force feed the point of
the film, instead they make it very subtle, which is nice.

It wasn't a laugh-out-loud comedy, but I don't know that I necessarily
thought it would be when I saw the trailer. It definitely had more
emotional depth than I thought it would which gave me a much fonder
attachment to the film than if it had simply been made for laughs. The
two leads had great chemistry and were believable and well cast. The
directing, writing, and pretty much everything in the film was well
done. I have no complaints. It delivered what it said it would and
exceeded my expectations which is rare these days in entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was great! I brought my friends and they thought it was
going to be lame but they ended up loving it just as much as I did! Go
see this movie, its adorable! I loved how its dark and gory in a cute
way. This movie is funny, suspenseful, a little bit of a horror and
romantic; its the perfect date movie! I don't get scared easily but
this movie made me jump a few times... The whole movie i was
entertained! I was very impressed with the way the make-up and hair
team were able to make the zombies so realistic! R was very easy to
relate with and this movie has a little bit of everything for everyone.
I suggest going even if your a bit skeptic about it. Go out and see
this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
'Warm Bodies' is a fantastic film about a zombie named 'R' who falls in
love with a human and tries his best to protect her from the rest of
the zombies.

The plot is very strange but if you embrace its weirdness and
eccentricity then it is brilliant. A lot of people have described it as
being like Twilight except with zombies but it is far better  there's
depth to the characters, a lot of really funny and embarrassing scenes
but there is also a lot of really frightening parts which I did not
expect. I am glad there were some scary moments, with zombies you
expect a little scare here and there regardless of the genre but, I am
surprised at the films' 12a rating. The plot is well paced and you're
not bored or waiting for something interesting to happen  the film
entertains you from start to finish.

Nicholas Hoult is brilliant in this; it must have been difficult to do
this role  especially without blinking most of the time. It's good to
see that he is making it in large popular films now because he fully
deserves it. Theresa Palmer is also really good; it's nice to see a
female lead have some humorous scenes for a change compared to the
mind- numbingly dull Bella in Twilight. Dave Franco was also really
good here but he was not in the film for very long which is a shame
because he can be really funny.

Overall, this is a really funny film with a decent amount of horror
included. If you are considering taking children between 8 and12 you
should know that there are some pretty frightening scenes. There's a
fairly small amount of gore but the 'boneys' can be quite scary 
particularly towards the end. However, the film is really nice, funny
and even heart-warming sometimes.
<|_=00=_|>
Going into Jonathan Levine's (50/50, The Wackness) new film Warm
Bodies, I was intrigued. I didn't know quite what I was going to get as
the concept was fresh and unique.

Zombies have taken over, yet one zombie, named R, played wonderfully by
Nicholas Hoult has a mind of his own and is not your typical zombie. He
has a conscious mind at work, and soon he falls for a pretty girl named
Julie (Teresa Palmer) that he encounters.

This is where the movie puts a twist on the whole zombie genre. He soon
becomes enamored by her and becomes more human, as she has stimulated
his heart. Can a zombie find solace with another person and...love?
That is the main theme of this movie, and it's a damn good one.

Their chemistry will draw you in and actually make you buy it, no
matter how ridiculous it is. R's friend, M, played hilariously by Rob
Corddry steals the show with funny scene after funny scene.

With Warm Bodies you get a mix of comedy, romance, and zombie-horror.
It's a fresh spin on all three, and it was truly a fun time at the
theater. It's well paced and has a great feel to it from the get-go,
mostly in part to wonderful narration from Holt, and smooth direction
from Levine.

It's only February but I already found one of my early favorites of
2013.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally the great zombie romance? Well, maybe not, but it's the closest
I've seen. You get to see zombie life from the perspective of a zombie,
who starts to get feelings for a girl who's alive. Through a set of
circumstances, he "rescues" her and they take refuge in a grounded
plane at an airport overrun by the undead. There were several original
elements that I had never seen in a zombie movie. First and foremost is
the narration by our young zombie giving us insights into his
condition. He can barely utter words, but weirdly, in his head, he
seems smart and talks normally. I liked that part and I was kinda sorry
when he got somewhat better at talking, therefore evacuating most of
his thoughts. Second original element was the romance. I wasn't
impressed by it, but at least it was slow-building, somewhat charming,
avoiding most of the disgusting stuff, and you kind of rooted for them
by the end.

Third original element would be the zombies not stuck as they are. They
can "evolve" (our hero) or "devolve" (bonies, zombies who shed their
outer skins, looking almost like black ghouls or skeletons). Speaking
of bonies, I thought they looked amazing, creepy even, but their
movements were stiff and made them look computer-generated. Also, who
knew that eating brains for zombies could be a way for them to live
vicariously the past life of the person they ate, through visions. It's
not even the only way they can "change", although the other way, though
nice, seemed a bit far-fetched and too quick. Fourth original element
was that there was sometimes a humanistic, hopeful even, vibe to the
proceedings despite the dramatic elements. There's something at the end
involving the zombies and the bonies that I had never seen before. So
the movie is more original than one might think, however the execution
wasn't flawless.

Sure, overall, I found the movie had charms, but for me the laughs were
few and far between, like most romantic comedies I suppose. Because
it's supposed to be one of those, but with obviously more somber
elements. The drama could have used more "teeth" to make this film
truly memorable and moving though. The movie even made me think of
Romeo & Juliet as well as Edward Scissorhands, not bad stories to be
associated with. The creators never really went into total parody or
silly mode, which I think was a smart choice. What really took me out
of the picture at several occasions though is that they didn't follow
their own internal rules. We're told by our hero that zombies can only
shamble slowly, yet not long after, we see zombies running. It's like
they can have bursts of speed at will. Also, bonies, for some reason,
move fast despite being in a more advanced stage of zombification.
Also, I know it's a short movie, but zombies "evolve" too quickly,
especially the best friend. Acting was fairly good, not exceptional,
but I particularly liked the main character. Why? Because he's a nice,
smart freak, quite lonely and having trouble to express his feelings in
words and actions, but able to be slowly "healed" by kindness and love.
It made him interesting and relatable to me and probably others. Yes,
the movie could even be seen as an allegory on solitude, not fitting
in, and how hard it is to truly connect to others in modern society.

Zombie makeup was rather minimal, and they managed to make the
protagonist kind of attractive, in a goth-like way, mostly because of
his great hair and pale blue eyes. I thought there were wasted
opportunities with the concept, but it could have been done much, much
worse. So, I liked the movie, I would even recommend it to most people
not allergic to zombies to see a different take on them. It's very
minimally bloody and the most "gory" part is when they show a zombie
shedding his skin to become a bonie, and even that's not too
disgusting. I think it would make a good date movie. Warm Bodies didn't
leave me cold and the more I dwell on it, the warmer my feelings for it
get.

Rating: 7 out of 10 (Good)
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see "Warm Bodies" on opening night, something I rarely do. I
have to say, I wasn't disappointed in this strangely romantic comedy.
Don't be turned off by the premise of a zombie romantic comedy - it
manages to parody human relationships on many levels the way "Shaun of
the Dead" parodied zombie movies. Nicholas Holt does a wonderful job
parodying the awkward teenager filled with angst and a longing to
connect, yet his inner dialog makes for much of the movie's comedy. He
manages to have a bromance and a romance and make you laugh at the same
time. Rob Corddry does a wonderful job holding up his end of the
bromance if you will, and I didn't even catch his part in aiding the
Shakespearian nod. Yes, this movie manages to pull a pun on Shakespeare
while also light-heartedly setting out themes for what defines a person
as human. Teresa Palmer does a wonderful job rounding out the chick
flick humor with Analeigh Tipton. I thoroughly enjoyed the film and
will be going to see it again. I was too busy laughing to see the plot
holes.

I also have purposefully avoided reading the book, so I wouldn't have
any preconceived notions of the movie. I get that the book was much
darker than the film, which would set a viewer up for disappointment in
a romantic comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
And they said you couldn't have a zombie romance story. Take that
vampires! 

The zombie R was surprisingly strong, but sensitive, sweet, loving, and
protective. He wanted to talk to the pretty girl but had trouble
finding the words, or at least vocalizing them. His determination and
frantic antics were endearing.

Julie was not some wussy victim or brainless babe. It made me happy to
see she was tough and could take care of herself. She had a rebellious
streak that made her entertaining to watch and a softer affectionate
side that showed itself with R.

I can honestly say I liked both characters and wanted to see them
succeed. 

I particularly enjoyed the scenes where R eats the brains and we saw
more of Julie, her old boyfriend, her father, and how they all fit
together. It was heart felt and well-done. The relationships and the
complexity of them was less evident in the movie than in the book but I
could still feel it. If you liked the movie I highly suggest reading
the book, by the way.

Warm Bodies was well paced and acted, and one of the better zombie
movies I have seen. Watch it, and provided you aren't dead inside, be
overcome by it's cuteness! I can't say enough times - read the book!
Read the book! Read the book! Okay I'm done.
<|_=00=_|>
When I was going to see this movie, i was thinking that it gonna be
another teen movie about a girl that's discover the natural identity of
her boyfriend, but it wasn't like this, it was so much better, with
alternative focus and interesting events this movie comes with a brand
new type of history, a very well produced time line that will keep you
with your eyes opened until the last second, it's simply awesome, great
for family, adaptable for all ages, and will touch even the youngest
and the oldest person that goes to see it, it's not a reflexive movie,
that will be in your head for a long time, but it's a huge font of
entertainment, i recommend it for all the people in the world. Of
course, this movie has a lot of existing elements, that make it a
little boring to see, but it's a great film for a Saturday night, to
see with your friends. Thanks all of you, and sorry about my English,
i'm from other country.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's something you don't see every day: A romantic comedy involving
zombies. Thus, "Warm Bodies", a fresh, fast-paced, sensational and
truly original delight that is sure to knock your socks off from
beginning to end. Start with the premise: After an plague has caused
people to turn into zombies, the real humans including General Grigio
(John Malkovich) separate themselves from the brain-eating zombies by
building up a wall in order to keep them away. Along the way, we get to
meet one of those zombies. Meet R (the charming British heartthrob
Nicholas Hoult). He doesn't quite like this life, knowing that he has
to eat brains in order to survive and to live off the memories of the
humans he's killed. He's looking for someone to connect to, which is
really explained through his facial expressions and inner monologues.
Then it's love at first bite, when he's finally connecting to Julie
(Australian beauty Teresa Palmer), daughter of General Grigio. When he
sees her after she shoots most of his friends, he decides to protect
her and to "keep her safe". Yes, this zombie is in love. Protecting her
in his abandoned airplane filled with vinyl records, a record player,
and other resourceful things, R finally gets to realize that something
was missing in him all along, leaving his heart beating to realize that
he loves her. That's when R, his friend M (a wonderful Rob Corddry) and
the other zombies are starting to change. That's all good, until the CG
skeletal creatures known as Bonies will do anything to prevent that
from happening, which leads off into the film's fantastical climax.
"Warm Bodies", directed by Jonathan Levine (of the delightful
comedy-drama "50/50" and the incredibly wicked "The Wackness"), who
also adapted the film from Isaac Marion's bestselling book for young
adults, combines a mixture of 5 different genres (comedy, horror,
romance, drama, even a little bit of sci-fi) that makes the film more
smarter and even more better than "The Twilight Saga". (Take that,
Jacob Black.) What also makes it work is the inspired casting of
Nicholas Hoult from "About a Boy", "X-men: First Class" and the
upcoming "Jack the Giant Slayer". As R, he literally dives deep into
the emotions as well as having terrific comic timing through his
expressions and his inner monologues by using a spot-on American
accent. He also develops great chemistry with Teresa Palmer, known as
the butt-kicking alien Six in "I Am Number Four", who, as Julie, has a
tough and fearless personality as well as a emotional side to her. The
supporting cast is also incredible, including Analeigh Tipton, who is
hilarious as Julie's friend, Nora, Dave Franco (James's little brother
from last year's "21 Jump Street") who gets a brief amount of screen
time, but really sticks it out as Julie's ex-boyfriend, Perry, who (in
order not to spoil this) gets called for a dinner date that includes
brains on the menu and the great John Malkovich excels as a man who
believes that the zombies are nothing more than just flesh-eating
corpses looking forward to get shot in the head, but doesn't believe
that his only daughter is in love with one. I know what you're
thinking, this is just another zombie movie. But "Warm Bodies" is
certainly different than that. It revives the zombie genre by bringing
something original to the screen. For those who love the TV series "The
Walking Dead" and the other zombie comedies "Zombieland" and "Shaun of
the Dead", not to mention George A. Romero "...of the Dead" series, you
actually will get a taste of what the zombie world is like through the
eyes of one. And maybe like R's, your heart will warm up too. This is
the best surprise so far this year. Note: "Warm Bodies" is pretty tame,
but pushing the envelope for a PG-13 film involving zombies who eats
brains and Bonies who consumes hearts. Those are hardly seen, but there
are people who shoot zombies in the head with guns. That works in order
to keep it very organic.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a lot of fun to watch. It is a twist on the zombie genre
unlike anything you have ever seen. There is nothing too offensive or
gory in this - the creators kept it clean and not too scary for a
full-on zombie flick. There are your typical shot to the head to kill
the zombies but those quick scenes are nothing compared to watching 10
minutes of The Walking Dead or the like. I am always concerned because
I have seen so many movies over the years where the creators did not
know how to properly end the story. So many movies are great the first
hour and then end poorly. I thought this had one of the best endings I
have ever seen. Enjoy!
