
We just got back from the earliest showing we could get a sitter for. I
can say with confidence that my fears about this movie were totally
unfounded, and I now hold Guy Ritchie and these writers in the highest
regard. Without going into spoilers, here are the three concerns that
were put entirely to rest: 1) After seeing the trailer, my biggest
worry was the use of "bullet-time" type photography during a
Victorian-era movie. I thought it would be completely anachronistic and
pointless. However, they'd already established in this movie and the
previous one that Holmes is hyper-aware of his surroundings. The
bullet-time was used to convey how traumatic a couple of scenes were to
someone with that type of awareness, and it worked beautifully.

2) Jared Harris looked so vanilla and soft in the promo pics and
trailers that I couldn't imagine him as a fearsome adversary for
Holmes. However, his Moriarty is so devious and cunning, and at one
time downright sadistic, that I don't think they could have made a
better choice. A couple of times I felt like he was channeling his
father (the outstanding Richard Harris) without the warmth and empathy
that the late actor conveyed. Can you imagine Richard Harris as a
cunning, calculating perfectionist that's totally devoid of concern for
human life? You won't have to after watching his son. It's freaky. And
he sings.

3) Holmes' relationship with Watson (and in a small way, Irene Adler)
is fantastically developed. Saying any more than that would be too
spoilery.

So, watching this w/ my husband(who is a die-hard Sherlock fan, and
used to read Sherlock Holmes aloud to me every rainy night, complete w/
voices) was a fabulous experience. We can't wait to see it again, and
own it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was absolutely fantastic. I have been waiting for it for
what feels like forever now and it truly did not disappoint. The
storyline was clever, the dynamic between Watson and Holmes was
charming and beautiful, and the effects were incredible. Honestly, as
much of a fan I am of the first movie, its sequel surpassed it and my
overall expectation. Some the effects were unnecessary at times, but I
really enjoy the style in which these movies are edited. It can be
slightly confusing periodically, another reason to rewatch, still pay
attention closely. Jude Law and Robert Downey Jr.'s chemistry was
compelling and the supporting actors were on par. I laughed, I nearly
screamed, and I even cried. Game of Shadows is gripping, exciting,
hilarious,and even draws tears. You'll be cheering throughout and
satisfied with the end. Too be honest, it is absolutely one of the best
movies of this year.
<|_=00=_|>
Professor Moriarty: Are you sure you want to play this game? Sherlock
Holmes: I'm afraid you'd lose.

In Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows, my mind turns two ways: The
first half is guns, gunpowder, and gymnastics. Sherlock Holmes (Robert
Downey, Jr.) and Dr. Watson (Jude Law) contend with the salvation of
civilization mostly through athletics, aided by director Guy Ritchie's
considerable skill with the camera and graphics.

But in the second half, when the duo moves swiftly but intellectually
to confront the arch villain Professor James Moriarty (Jared Harris),
my mind is at equilibrium, renewing my love of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's
original brainy, eccentric sleuth. The chess game is a marvel of
strategy, replete with revenge, intrigue, and just plain ingenuity.
Director Guy Ritchie's visuals include delightful Downey disguises and
lively speed ramping in a forest bombarded by bullets. Hans Zimmer's
music leans heavily on the fiddle to lighten the load of a difficult
plot.

Watson's marriage, rather than taking away from the bromance, adds
unexpected color and creativity. So Ritchie has ramped up the
intellectual content and at least balanced it with the athletic, which
was a strength of his 2009 version, Sherlock Holmes. With Inspector
Lastrade just a memory and Holmes's love, Irene Adler (Rachel McAdams),
appearing briefly, we are left to enjoy not so much the interaction of
Holmes and Watson but the explosiveness of Holmes and Moriarty.

After a first half of explosions, the second half satisfies
traditionalists like me for the chess game of life and deathand that's
the suspenseful fate of the world in those pieces. Director Guy Ritchie
has improved on his 2009 version.
<|_=00=_|>
Talking about sequels, more often than not, they are disappointment
compared to the original. But this team has done again. They brought
back the sequel with quality. I enjoyed this film as much as I did in
the first part. The action, thrill, intelligence, all are placed
perfectly in this film. The screenplay and making pattern is pretty
much same as the first part and story moving in good pace. The main
characters did a fantastic job once again. Holmes and Watson chemistry
is perfect and delivered a great performance. Here I really like the
way how the hero and villain play their games, both are very clever and
the equality was very interesting. Simply, if you liked the first part,
just go for this one. This is perfect entertainment and No
disappointments.
<|_=00=_|>
"Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadow" picks up where the prequel left
off; Holmes is tracking down Professor Moriarty, a man he believes is
responsible for a series of bombings and mysterious deaths around
world. With the help of his pal Watson (off to be married soon), and a
gang of gypsies, which includes The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo's Noomi
Rapace, set out on a game of cat-and-mouse to find the schemes of the
sinister Professor.

Though there is an element of mystery in this film, it is not as
in-depth as the first film. Rather the focus is on the action sequences
and clever humor. This is not necessarily a bad thing though; in fact
it helps move the plot along. The first film suffered because the story
was slow. In this Holmes though, there is not one second that drags.
The story itself is not special, but its pace is what counts. Walking
out of the theater, I felt refreshed and glad that I saw this movie. 

Robert Downey Jr. and Jude Law are once again a true treat to watch as
Holmes and Watson. Their chemistry and interactions are perfect; it's
easy to tell that both had fun with the script and with each other.
Jared Harris as Professor Moriarty gives a solid performance, as a
cold, manipulative, power hungry villain. Unlike Mark Strong in the
first film, he is a believable antagonist. Noomi Rapace is a nice
flavor as Madam Sim. 

The set and costume designs are exquisite, bringing to life of what
Europe was like in the late 1800s. I smell Oscar for these departments.
The sound and editing is crisply done, and the music is
top-notchedHans, you're truly the best. The visual effects are mostly
good, but some scenes were a bit over the top and borderline
ridiculous. One of many examples include a woman being thrown from a
fast moving train into a river, without sustaining injury or even
dying. This is impossible. Then again, it's Hollywood. The filmmakers
aren't doing their job if a sense of the ridiculous is not thrown into
an action flick from time to time. 

"Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadow" delivers as a great, action-packed,
and a rather humorous, popcorn loving flick. Note: the dog dies again.
<|_=00=_|>
So what's been happening lately?

There has been a series of bombings and assassinations across Europe
and if these activities continue, war will erupt and Europe will become
a field of casualties and devastation. And our favorite detective
Sherlock Holmes suspects Professor James Moriarty as the mastermind
behind all these events. 

Meanwhile, amidst the bombings and destruction which are ravaging
Europe, Sherlock Holmes's partner, Dr. John Watson is finally getting
married with his fiancée Mary. After being engaged in the first film,
they are finally getting married and a short funny wedding scene has
been reserved in the film. They're even going for a honeymoon in
Brighton. Or they were supposed to go for a honeymoon. 

The train the couple boarded was filled with Moriarty's henchmen and a
loud, explosive battle ensues eliminating any hopes of an upcoming
honeymoon. Even though Watson had been planning to retire from
adventuring with Holmes after his wedding, he reluctantly becomes
Holmes's partner one more time while his wife is taken care of by
Holmes's brother, Mycroft. And the duo will receive an additional
member to form a trio: the mysterious gypsy Madam Simza. Together, they
try to stop Moriarty from continuing his cruel schemes and Holmes
learns about Moriarty's plan to start a war in which he will personally
benefit from.

There are lots of action scenes that keep the film exciting and keep
the film running in a constant, fast pace. The action sequences are
louder, much more explosive, and much more energetic than the ones
present in the predecessor. They are very loud, operatic, and
exuberant. But some of the battle sequences are surprisingly quiet,
such as a simple chess game held between Holmes and Moriarty. While you
think a chess game would be boring, Guy Ritchie filmed it as if it was
a grand battle. The sounds, the atmosphere, and the dialog adds another
layer of tension and makes the chess game scene more atmospheric.

Not only the action scenes, but the humor here is outstanding. Most of
the jokes and humor come from the titular character himself. His
bizarre behavior, regardless of his intelligence add a layer of comedy
to the film. His trademark hobby, disguising into several unexpected
people is just purely entertaining. If it weren't for Robert Downey
Jr., the humor here would have collapsed and become a disaster.

And of course, the acting and performances by the cast were brilliant
and outstanding. Robert Downey Jr. is just brilliant in portraying the
titular detective. He is admirable and he is really a man of talent.
Don't worry, Jude Law also plays the role of Dr. John Watson perfectly.
Together, they form an excellent chemistry. Also worth mentioning is
Noomi Rapace as the mysterious gypsy Madam Simza, who not too long ago
played the role of Lisbeth Salander in the original version of "The
Girl With the Dragon Tattoo". Stephen Fry plays the role of Mycroft
Holmes to perfection.

I'd like to take some time discussing the character of Professor James
Moriarty. He is a very compelling villain. His professional life as a
criminal mastermind is hidden beneath his profession as a professor in
the University of Cambridge. He is much more intelligent, much more
cunning, and much deadlier than Lord Blackwood of the previous film.
While Holmes seems to be a detective that can do no wrong in the
previous film, here, he will make mistakes. Here, he will feel pain.
Moriarty is just a very powerful villain and a very suitable opponent
for Holmes. (And remember the slow-motion scenes where Holmes
elaborates his fighting strategies in his mind, Moriarty can do it
too.) And to further compliment this is the performance of Jared
Harris. While he may not look suitable as an antagonist, he actually
makes a perfect choice. 

However, the film uses too much slow-mo effects. This is largely
noticeable in one particular scene which has an extensive use of
slow-motion. I know the effect is mainly used to make it look more
stylish but there is certainly too much of them. Running at a duration
of 129 minutes, it could have been shortened if some of the slow-mo
effects have been removed. 

Not only the slow-mo effects, but this film seems to have lost its
trademark element of mystery that is present in the first film. Even
though there are some mystery present here, they are not as mind-
boggling as the ones present in the first film. In the first film,
there are just so many questions that popped up and Holmes really has
something to work on. But here, it's not mysterious. You know the full
details immediately. 

Nevertheless, "A Game of Shadows" is a pleasant experience and a whole
lot more fun than the original film. Its operatic action scenes will
entertain the audience and its comedic scenes will add a layer of
laughter. With powerful performances from the cast, this film is one
not to be missed in this movie season.

Final Verdict: "A Game of Shadows" is a stylish, fast-paced, yet
comedic adventure which improves upon its predecessor in several
aspects, and surely a highly recommended film.

Rating: 8/10 

Thanks for reading my review on "Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows". I
do hope this review is useful.
<|_=00=_|>
I lapped up Arthur Conan Doyle's works in my younger years and had
recently begun re- reading them. However that is not to say that I am a
Sherlock purist, far from it. I thoroughly enjoyed the BBC's recent
take on Sherlock and am anxiously awaiting the beginning of the new
series. Much the same can be said for Guy Ritchie's first exploit. I
rated it as the best film of that year, enjoying the mix of the occult,
to the back beat of Victorian London. Mark Strong portrayed a master
villain who death and unease followed. There was then the balancing act
that was Holmes and Watson. Jude Laws character being more than a
blundering side kick and in some ways equal to Robert Downey Junior's
Holmes. 

Fast forward to two years later to this afternoon when I sat down in
the cinema to watch A Game Of Shadows, full of hope, awaiting two hours
of sterling entertainment, sadly I left somewhat disappointed to say
the least.

All the negative reviews that I have read so far echo what I am about
to write. If you are a small child looking for a film with multiple
explosions and slow motion "bullet time" effects then you are in luck.
However, if you are looking for a sequel that continues in the vein of
the first film, regarding the worlds foremost detective, then you, like
me, will be sadly disappointed. Gone is the ingenious Holmes analytical
deduction, with a rich multi layered plot, only to be replaced with
overly long fights sequences, more akin to Steven Seagal or John Claude
Van Damme. The irony being that I am a keen martial artist and I was
extremely impressed with the sequences in the first film. However, in
the first film they were used sparingly, adding to the characters
arsenal of brains and brawn, thus keeping the integrity of the film
intact. Unfortunately this is not the case in this sequel. Holmes
relying more upon his fighting prowess, as opposed to the art of
deduction. 

Characters on the periphery of the plot, such as Simza's Anarchist
brother and the Anarchist leader are not seized upon and examined,
leaving a thin plot, anorexic. But leads the way for a special effects
'fest' following our heroes through the forest, pursued by Moriaty's
forces. 

The only scene I did enjoy was the 'mano-a-mano' scene between Holmes
and Moriarty towards the conclusion, however at the same time I found
this frustrating as it was an insight into what A Game Of Shadows could
(should.!) have been.

From the opening credits it was clear that this was going to be darker
than its predecessor, especially when one the previous main characters
is killed off. Although I liked the character, I was impressed by the
bold move of the writers and was waiting for the emerging of a bold new
character in Noomi Rapace's Simza. Unfortunately Simza is a
one-dimensional character, who was easily forgotten and need not have
even been there, save for the penultimate 'brother' scene in the film. 

In Sherlock Holmes, Mark Strong gave a stellar performance as Lord
Blackwood, the lead villain. However the seedling of Moriaty's
character was always in the background, in some ways waiting to eclipse
Blackwood as the "villain of all villains". Unfortunately Jared
Harris's Moriaty fails to deliver on all counts. There is no presence
and no conviction. A poor choice, with poor delivery. Another irony
being the Mark Strong would have been one of the ideal candidates to
play the character of Moriarty.

The domestic relationship between Holmes and Watson added to the charm
of the first instalment and in my opinion Jude Law elevated Watson's
character, however in this sequel, as some have already commented, it
is bordering on homo erotic and as such the definition of the
characters is lost. Doyle's original creation was fond of donning
disguises to aid him in his investigations, however this is 'dialled up
to eleven" in the sequel, resulting in the cringe worthy 'seat'
disguise at the conclusion of the film.

All in all an extremely disappointing sequel to one of the best films I
have seen in the last five years.
<|_=00=_|>
I will say all the good things first, then I can rant. This film was
visually stunning. It was also pretty well acted especially by Jude
Law, although he is obviously too young to be Watson. Robert Downey Jr.
is also pretty good and his natural charm makes me want to like his
character. I also quite enjoyed Stephen Fry's part as Mycroft, it was a
nice surprise. I'm a little dubious about the casting of Moriarty, but
he wasn't awful I guess. In fact I feel that the same actors with a
different director and script would have made this film top-class.

OK now the bad bits. It is trying to be FAR too cool for it's own good.
And you know what happens when people try to be cool - they come off as
posers and losers. I'm all for a bit of action, and yet this film just
ruins Holmes by making him a martial artist, super slow mo, extra cool,
thug. Holmes could box and he was a cane fighter. Why not just put that
in??? It would have been great.

Another major gripe is the complete lack of any real deduction,
questioning or intelligence. I know, let's just make him dress in about
4 different silly outfits and every now and then he can jump to some
conclusions! Then the final nail in the coffin was the over-the-top
story which reminded me of the absurdity of 'the League of
Extraordinary Gentlemen'. I'm all for suspending belief in a plot line,
but there is a limit and I reached it about half way through this film.

If you want a decent modern take on Sherlock Holmes I highly recommend
'Sherlock' the BBC series. The setting is modern, but the acting and
characterisation are just the right temperament to transcend the
classic stories into a modern setting. It depends how much of a Holmes
puritan you are! For many, Jeremy Brett IS Holmes simple as that.
<|_=00=_|>
Guy Ritchie has proved himself quite a stylish director. He has given
us "Rock'n'Rolla" and the first of the Sherlock series before. Somehow,
he has lost control of the material recently, and this is most obvious
in the latest entry Holmes entry.

The film is a visual stunner, easily with "The Tree of Life" and "HP
VII/ Part II", one of the best looking movies ever filmed. This film
truly transports us back to the early days of the XX Century and makes
us feel like we are really in the middle of the very polluted capitals
of Europe, the exquisite photography immersing us in the world of
shadows which was part of that society day and night. The film allows
us to almost feel the torture of the upholstery, the lush velvet of the
costumes, and the sumptuous decadence of the wealthy classes. Every
aspect of the art direction should be recognized as the best of the
best, and I wish the story would be allowed to reach those levels.

Doyle's Holmes and Watson are truly two of the most intelligent and
fascinating characters in literature; as a pair, they might have no
match, and Moriarty is the perfect villain, but the way these films
treat the development of the story and the characters themselves is a
shame, for Ritchie prefers to have slow motion takes to show bullets or
flash editing to detract from the impact of a good action scene. He
does redeem himself twice in the scenes with Moriarty and Holmes, but
that is what makes the whole two hours truly frustrating because one
yearns for more of what could have made the films great, and we get a
lot of beautiful shots of violence and mayhem, but little of what truly
matters.

This film takes us through the philosophical studies of what man's self
destructive nature, and how evil geniuses profit from man's tragic
disposition. As I mentioned before because of the film's truncated
style, it is hard to truly appreciate the battle of the minds. It is a
cat and mouse chase through some lovely scenery and it ends with the
ultimate solution, the final solution, a chess move so diabolical, the
audiences gasp, and in what could have an amazing cliffhanger, with a
true open end, or not, depending on how carefully you have reviewed the
clues along the way, Ritchie goes the easy away. Can we hear the
audience papers results being read? Downey and Law do very well. Rapace
is truly wasted, and it is hard to believe she gave the best
performance of the year in 2010. In this film, we are in for easy
laughs, little is explained as to why Holmes want to blend into the
background or dress as a cheap slut. His mind is best asset but you
couldn't tell from this film. You'll have a better time reading the
short stories or checking out the old films. Now that would make sense.
<|_=00=_|>
Something about anarchists and tensions between France and Germany, a
gypsy fortune teller of indeterminate nationality with a missing
brother who at one point I thought was buried in a basement but shows
up at a peace conference/ballroom dance high up in the Alps. Oh, and
throw in an evening at the opera, a dead dog brought to life with a
shot of adrenaline to its heart, and a severe case of TB communicated
apparently by teacups. 

On top of this, all the male characters come across as gay. Holmes
seems jealous of Watson's marriage; Holmes's brother acts like Oscar
Wilde; Watson dances at a ball with Holmes, etc. Maybe this was an
intentional subtext but just seemed odd.
