
Exorcism of Emily Rose tops this movie.... And that's not saying a
whole lot. The plot was good, the acting....par but you saw everything
coming. The ending was I call a "ran out of money" ending. Definitely
worth waiting for the DVD release. I didn't mind the whole Blair
witch/paranormal activity/cloverfield camera action they used. It was
just the fact you knew what was coming 1 step ahead. Not to leave out
the very dull ending but I guess it would have cost too much $ to
actually leave us paying folk to know what happened to the people we
spent the last 87 minutes caring about. Overall had a few creepy parts.
Dog barking made my body ache. Just don't waste your time and money
running to the theater to see this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Before saying anything, let me point out I watch all films with an open
mind, and normally I can enjoy a film regardless of how technically
poor it is.

This however, was a farce. I honestly can't believe this film got
released into theatres, scene after scene was a regurgitation of scenes
that we've all seen before. Not just individual scenes, but the whole
tone of the film was so familiar and dull.

I didn't take count, but after a noticeable amount of times of the date
being shot at me with a low dong was laughable, the bloke who made it
must've watched paranormal activity and thought "ooh that was good,
I'll have that... then I'll grossly over use it" There was nothing new
about any of the exorcism scenes, apart from it was with a hand held
camera.. wow. just watch the exorcist and shake the TV around.

I felt like i was watching an awful, pretentious student film from the
outset and most of the acting had me cringing in my seat. I literally
have never seen a worse all round acting display in my life... it was
just totally unacceptable. They were trying so hard to make it look
'real' or 'genuine' and it just looked pathetic, so many face head
scratching and little smirks to themselves.

I won't go into the ending... but it summed the movie up really.
unoriginal, contrived and no shock factor (which was obviously
intended) you know when a film is so bad its kind of entertaining? well
this is just offensive. It was shameful. I can't think of one redeeming
quality.

DO NOT SPEND MONEY ON THIS FILM
<|_=00=_|>
I think everyone is giving this movie a bum wrap. Yeah, it didn't have
an amazing ending, and in all honesty, I don't know a lot of horrors
that do have successful or satisfying endings. I really don't think
they are the primary concern of this genre, and if they are, they're
the difference between 7/10 and 10/10 stars.

The fact is, this was a creepy movie. I was legitimately upset watching
it. I think they did a great job of incorporating claustrophobia with
the completely unpredictable mother, it was very uncomfortable and I
was impressed. Were the characters any good? decent enough for me, when
are characters ever really that brilliant in horrors? Again, it's not
my primary concern, I go with the hope of being scared and this movie
was more successful than I'm used to in that sense.

I was also very impressed with how well they shattered the sense of
safety in the movie. The demons were running wild, they made
significant development jumping between people and they were totally
unpredictable. They were always initially restrained and they were
always too strong to be held back.

My only real complaint: I'm tired of the documentary style horrors.
Yeah, maybe they would have been better off ending the movie 2 minutes
earlier. I don't care, I'll get over it.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I'm not a 15 year old girl who just saw her first scary
movie. Second, I really enjoy the intimacy and tone of found footage
movies.

I am shocked to see so many negative reviews about this movie. The
trailer was not misleading? I'm confused about some of the negative
hype. If you are saying there is no real ending to this movie, or that
you don't understand, you need to see the movie again. It very clearly
explains itself. I really enjoyed the ending. I really don't like hype,
but I gave into it when people started posting the trailer everywhere.
When it came out, and I saw all the negative reviews, I immediately
lowered my standards. This movie did not disappoint.

This is not a big budget thriller. If you want another cheesy movie
with hot naked girls running away from serial killers, go watch Hostel.
It may not be strikingly original, but I found the tone to be very
scary. If you want to see the another Academy Award worthy film with
amazing dialogue and special effects, go see something else. 

It is very rare that a movie gets my adrenaline going. You have to
remember that this is supposed to be a documentary that takes place in
the time span of a couple months, not a narrative about someone's life.
You have to use your imagination to get into the style of film. I guess
some people don't have imaginations anymore. 

I found the jump scenes to be quite frequent and valid to the story,
although one jump scene with a dog comes at a random time in the movie,
and has nothing to do with the storyline. 

There is more gore than I anticipated, which is a plus. I feel like
they fit it into the movie very well. Senseless, randomly placed gore
in a film shows me that the creators are trying too hard. The special
effects were not overdone. The exorcism scenes were quite disturbing,
unlike what others may be saying.

The story takes a turn when after the exorcism of the lead role
Isaballa's mother, the demons transfer to the priest, and eventually
Isabella. I guess people are interpreting this as a hole in the story
or something, but I thought it was a great turn.

Summary: I'm extremely picky on horror movies, I find most to be either
over done or really generic. This one got me. I am a fan of the style
of film, although some people are not. This movie will receive low
ratings because it's not The Sixth Sense or Insidious, but will end up
with a good cult following, seeing as some people do actually care to
have a good thrill. If you like Blair Witch, I'd highly recommend this
movie. I was NOT disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Movies about demonic possession have been around for a very long time,
some are terrifying, some are horrible. I saw the trailer for The Devil
Inside when I went to see Paranormal Activity 3 and the whole audience
was screaming, I have to admit that it gave me the chills too. Even
though it looked a little silly, there were some genuinely creepy
moments. So I saw this yesterday and despite all the bad reviews I was
really curious to see what this movie was about and to give it a fair
chance and may I say that the bad reviews are very justified. Not to
say that this is the worst film I have ever seen, but I am getting sick
of the "lost footage" genre, we know it's all fake so why bother trying
to make us believe that it's real? Though the one thing I really give
the film credit for is that it tried something different by making it
into a documentary type of movie, which was really cool and I loved
that it looked at both the scientific and religious side of demonic
possession, giving the viewer a reason to question what was real and
what was possibly a mental illness. However the slow pace of the creeps
and the scares leads into one of the worst endings in movie history.

Maria Rossi committed a triple murder during an exorcism performed on
her. The Catholic Church became involved, and she has since been in a
Catholic psychiatric hospital in Rome. Her daughter, Isabella, learned
of the murders from her father, who died three days after telling her.
Twenty years later, Isabella is in the process of filming a documentary
about exorcisms, and to find out more about her mother, she visits a
school in Rome that deals with exorcisms and enters a classroom where
students, priests and scientists are having a discussion about whether
or not a subject is possessed by a demon or just has a mental
condition. She has dinner with a few students and ends up getting a
little closer with two priests, Ben and David. They talk more about the
differences between being possessed and mental illnesses, and inform
Isabella that they can't explain the differences, it's something you
"just know". On that note, Ben and David are operating outside of the
Church and performing exorcisms to help patients. Isabllea then decides
they are the perfect duo to help her mom, but they may have bitten more
than they can chew when they accept.

If you make a film about demonic possession, offer something new that
we haven't seen before. I'm not talking about just the contorted bodies
and talking in tongues, but they offer something great with a demon
that could jump from body to body just terrorizing every humanÂ…but then
after this great idea and making you want even more, they pull the rug
out from under you. Also, when did the demons get such a potty mouth?
Taking a page from The Exorcist? The film does copy off of previous
possession films which makes it not as original. The characters are
unbelievable and not sympathetic so you don't care about what happens
to them. Why would a family put their possessed daughter in the creepy
basement locked up? Why after a priest tries to drown a baby during a
baptism he's able to just walk out of the church? And why in these lost
footage films do people during critical times always grab a camera?
There are some good little scares with the mother who the film is
somewhat centered around with her possession, what a chilling
performance. However with a horrible ending, the movie is just ruined.
The audience comes wanting to be entertained, not feel like they just
got slapped in the face as the director is counting their money
laughing to the bank.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
*Very minor spoiler. 

This is my first review. Have mercy.

Important note before I begin:

The problem I see with people watching movies like "The Devil Inside"
is that they go in restless expecting people to twist into knots and
get ripped apart with nonstop action. This is not that movie. I walked
into the theater just wanting to be entertained and simply put, I was.
What I find to be necessary in slower movies like this is to let
yourself become absorbed in the story rather than trying to poke holes
in the story and critique it as you watch it. I let myself be absorbed
by the film and that is the perspective I will review it from.

Review:

This faux documentary centers around a girl who all but witnessed her
mother murder three people in what is later discovered to be an
exorcism. Obsessed with finding out the truth of that night, she
embarks on a trip to Rome with her filmmaking counterpart in order to
document their adventure into the dark world of exorcisms, and what
they find is disgusting, shocking and grotesque in a few instances, but
you just can't look away. What the director has done here, is try to
balance dialogue with action... a risky deviation from most horror
films. The dialogue is a bit slow sometimes, but it is never off topic
and keeps the story moving while giving a little more depth to each
character after each sequence. Now don't mistake what I am saying...
the screenplay is far from revolutionary, but it is a good start. The
dialogue can be a bit cheesy certainly not helped by periods of
lackluster acting, but as a whole, the film did not disappoint. 

A good exorcism movie is hard to make simply because the viewer knows
the stereotype and no one has yet to deviate from it yet. This movie
tried in its own way to reinvent the exorcism movie and did in some
ways, but kept faithful to what we know and appreciate for the most
part. 

"The Devil Inside" is not the action movie to go see with a bunch of
friends. This is a movie best seen quietly. Take it in. Try not to pick
apart every detail and your movie-going experience will dramatically
improve for this movie. I give it a solid 7/10. I left entertained and
frankly a little freaked out. Exactly what a good horror movie should
leave you with.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is only about an hour and 15 minutes. Nothing after the
credits and the credits are the slowest scrolling credits I've ever
seen in my life. My assumption is that it scrolled so slowly because
there weren't a lot of people who worked on the film (since the cast
was small and budget was low) and they didn't want the run time to be
so short as to devalue the movie and discourage people from paying to
see it; thinking they wouldn't get much bang for the buck. I guess they
had to do something to extend it and this is what they chose.

It's filmed in a found footage/documentary style that works for the
movie. It doesn't use too many cheap or jump scares. The only bad
acting belonged to the chick who played Isabella Rossi. The most
important character in the entire movie is actually the person filming
everything named Michael and he gets the least amount of face time and
dialogue. None of the footage would even exist if he wasn't filming.
Therefore, without him, no movie. He does express that during an MTV's
Real World type confessional. There actually is a story here. It's not
just a bunch of things happening on screen with no rhyme or reason. The
story itself is very good. I like it. It's not necessarily original but
the way the movie ends, if there is a sequel, it would have to be
filmed in a more traditional movie-making style. That means no found
footage. I just gave something away if you're paying attention.

There are intentional holes left in the movie that can only be answered
with a sequel. Like Maria Rossi's possession. Why was she chosen to be
possessed, why did the demon who possessed her make her do what she
did, and which demon possessed her? I think exorcism as a whole could
be explored more since part of the theme of this movie is the law
surrounding the act of exorcism and how it needs to change. Another
theme is distinguishing between mental illness and possession; a
separation of science and religion. I liked what they were doing here
by exploring other aspects of an overused genre but all the questions
weren't answered. That's not a bad thing. A different twist is similar
to what was done in the movie Fallen and that concept was explained
during the movie.

If you're gonna see this, and I'd give this a thumbs up to see it, then
go when there's gonna be less people in the auditorium or see it at a
reputable theater and that's what I recommend for every movie anyway.
This movie ain't worth full price. Catch a matinÃ©e or half price or
something. Dollar movie works too. It's worth seeing in theaters.

This movie didn't back down on violence. Just when I thought they
weren't gonna show certain things, they showed it and I appreciated
that. No watering down here although I believe some brief nudity in one
scene would have added to the realism. This also reminds me of REC but
this isn't anywhere near as good as that. REC, when watched under the
right conditions, will stay with you for a while. It burns an image
into your head that doesn't go away and that's what a good horror movie
is supposed to do: make you look over your shoulder and around corners
and through shower curtains and keeps you awake at night. REC does just
that and gives a compelling story. This also has a good story that I'd
really like to see continued if it makes enough money because, similar
to REC, it appears there's something bigger going on and this first
installment only scratches the surface. It teases more and I believe it
can deliver with a second movie.

The way the movie ends, there was a collective sigh of disappointment.
It leaves you wanting more and since that's what made people
disappointed, I'd say it did its job. It also makes you wonder because
there is something that happens in that last scene and you don't know
who the survivor is. That's all I'll say about that. The last scene was
unique and a bit funny given the circumstances, I'll give it that much.
It was original. If that last survivor is who it should be, then we
have a sequel if they ever make it and I'd love to see it at an equal
or better level of quality. No complaints about the special effects
which weren't that many to begin with. I give this 7 out of 10 stars.
Not a bad movie. Worth seeing. Not too scary but I'm sure some people
will be affected by certain scenes because it doesn't use too many
tricks to get the job done. It has a very creepy scene that affects you
as if you were watching the movie Session 9. It's short but effective
and that describes the entire movie. Just make sure to watch this with
the right people in the right environment.
<|_=00=_|>
Went to see this movie with my girlfriend. We went to the Thursday
midnight opening. She has been wanting to watch it for awhile from
seeing the previews. I had a bad feeling about it when we started
watching and I had Blair Witch flashbacks coming into play. The Maria
Rossi character was about the only thing I thought was remotely played
out well. Save yourself some money and don't bother going to watch this
movie. Oh, and virtually everyone booed at the ending of movies.

Please take my advice and don't waste your money. What more can I say
about how bad this movie is to fill up 10 lines of text to get my
review in. It was so bad I bothered to setup an account just so I could
make a bad review of it.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Devil Inside" focuses on Isabella Rossi as she tries to figure out
the mysterious murdering spree of her mother 20 years before. She later
finds out that it was during an exorcism that her mother killed three
people. After being arrested, Maria Rossi is sent to a mental hospital
for the criminally insane in Rome and Isabella travels there to figure
out what is wrong with her mother. The problem is more than just a
mental illness, but evil itself incarnate in her. 

My first thought before seeing this movie was that it was going to be
another one of those "exorcism" movies. Turning heads, spider-walking
down the stairs...we have all seen them. Before this film, most
exorcism flicks just focused on these traits. None of them really
discussed the religious aspect in terms of the Roman Catholic Church. I
commend "The Devil Inside" for doing this. It really revealed the true
inner feelings of the Church on exorcism, especially in today's
society. Some people are separated in the idea of exorcism, even the
religious people and this film did a great job in conveying this
confusion and conflicting views. Mental illness is the panacea
diagnosis, but there may be something more. 

Honestly, I am not a very big fan of the hand-held camera style. But
this movie, overall, did a great job with handling this style. Yes,
there were spots where the camera was a little shaky, but it's a given
with these kinds of movies. The camera was almost always on the action
that was happening at the moment. It didn't try to trick the audience
by moving the camera somewhere else while there is a mÃªlÃ©e happening
just outside the view of the camera. The fake-documentary style is one
of my favorites, mainly because of "The Last Exorcism".

Overall, the plot was very well planned. It was quite an original plot
with a unique twist on multiple-demonic possessions. I thought that the
plot flowed and didn't drag in any spots. All speaking parts fit in
with the action and all discussions explained important aspects
necessary to understand the movie. 

All in all, this is one of the scariest movies I have seen. Everyone in
the movie theater was on the edge of their seats. Yes, the ending was a
bit disappointing, but the cliff-hanger was a great way to end this
movie. This is a kind of movie that if it ended on a good note, it
would have ruined the mood of the whole movie. That shroud of mystery
was a perfect touch. I found the ending words that "the case is still
being investigated" to be a little cheesy, which is why I gave it 8
stars. But other than that, I would highly recommend that you watch it.
It is well worth every penny. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was absolutely pathetic. The actors were terrible and the
whole story was just awful. I am really surprised this movie made it to
the theatres and made the amount of money it has. I am pretty sure the
audience wanted their money back once they watched this turd. The movie
has the potential for an interesting story, but the execution of the
movie falls flat. The main actress is the worst amateur I have ever
seen. The poor acting and bad story telling take you away from the
experience that this is based on a true story or real life. I would
avoid this movie and just rent The Exorcist. The trailer pretty much
gives away all the major parts.
