
Did I watch the same film that the other reviewers here watched?
Because I found nothing but obvious Oscar bait. It was as if someone
wrote a list of every possible tear-jerking story cliché and checked
off as many as they could fit within time and budget constraints.
Horses? Check! War? Check! Plucky youngsters? Check and check! Plucky
youngsters fighting to save the farm! Plucky youngsters fighting to
keep the horse! Plucky youngsters who were previously enemies now
getting along! Plucky youngsters severely wounded but staying plucky! I
could go on. Really, I could. But all that's necessary to say is that
almost everything you expect to happen does.

The cast is full of fantastic actors whose talent is disappointingly
wasted in this film. I can't blame them, considering the schmaltzy
script they had to work with ("It's a miracle horse!" - somebody
actually says that. Actually, I think every character says that?).
Emily Watson's brow furrows expertly. David Thewlis sneers as required.
Peter Mullan stares remorsefully with perfection. Benedict
Cumberbatch's mustache should win its own Oscar, and if an Oscar could
be won simply for tearful lip quivering, Jeremy Irvine would win it for
sure. I only wish I could have taken any of it seriously. Actually, I
found myself caring more about the father's pennant than the horse.

Never have I seen such a display of dull writing, ham-fisted scripting,
utterly scattered direction and overkill cinematography. It's no
surprise they've evaded professional critics in screenings. I don't
know who they've targeted everywhere else, but the audience at mine was
largely seniors and veterans who all applauded it wildly. The younger
audience members I saw did not seem to be so impressed. Some in my row
were actually laughing quietly at all the wrong places. To be fair,
perhaps this movie is really intended for a very specific demographic
of which I'm not yet a member. Or perhaps, more likely, it was
deliberately manipulative.
<|_=00=_|>
For the record, I'm a sappy horse lover, & I desperately wanted to
like, nay love, this film but I have to give it two stars. 

Based on a children's novel by Michael Morpurgo, I never heard of "War
Horse" until the Broadway production. Magnificent life-size horse
puppets were so eerily realistic and moving that THEY actually moved me
to tears. This was before I had an inkling that Spielberg had optioned
the story and was making a film of it.

Spielberg has pulled out every stop here -- the movie is shot on real
film and looks it, lush and expensive. The battle scenes are detailed
and exciting. There is a skillful cast of respected British actors. But
it's entirely without real heart and soul.

Without the exciting puppetry (that undoubtedly drew Spielberg to the
material as it did me), the only way to save this would have been some
kind of thoughtful retelling of the material. And once you get past the
swelling music, the golden sunsets and manipulated emotional level,
frankly this feels empty. "The Black Stallion" -- from 1979 -- is a
much more fantastical story, without historical precedent or realism,
and yet I never watch it without sobbing like a baby, because it
touches something deep and human and universal. "War Horse" simply does
not. It feels like a calculated bid for an Oscar nomination.

Being released along with "TinTin" at the same Christmas slot, my
impression was that the first big mistake Spielberg made was to go
realistic with the story. The play worked because it is NOT realistic.
Frankly, I think he should have used animation for the horse story --
made it more symbolic and expressionistic -- and filmed TinTin straight
up as an "Indiana Jones"- type adventure.

I was also struck, from almost the start of the film, that Spielberg
honestly knows (and cares) NOTHING about horses and that lack of
genuine interest plagues the film. The first part of the film, set in
an English village, has the Narracott family -- apparently the dumbest
and most incompetent tenant farmers in British history -- who
irrationally decide to buy a thoroughbred for plowing. Strangely, they
seem not to have owned ANY horse prior to this. How did they plow the
farm BEFORE Joey? Mr. Narracott spends 30 quid on Joey (I believe this
would be about $150 US, as it was valued in 1914) -- that amount of
money would have easily bought Joey AND some old plowhorse.

And why is Mr. Narracott about 60-65 years old, with a 14 year old son?
People married young back then -- Albert is more the age of his
grandchild. How on earth did the father think he'd run a good-sized
farm, when he's handicapped? and has no plow horse? (Note: nobody
apparently had ever heard of mules back then -- much cheaper than a
thoroughbred!) Since he spends his life savings on Joey, Mr. Narracott
now has NO RENT MONEY....why did he do this? He doesn't even like or
WANT the horse! He has no use for such a horse! He's put his entire
family in danger of going hungry and/or being evicted for a horse he
dislikes. Then he gambles what's left of his future that this slightly
built yearling can plow up a huge, rocky field.

Of course the horse does so, with considerable anguish and suffering --
in one day, because nobody remotely considered doing it a bit at a
time. The Narracotts are so mentally challenged as a FAMILY, none of
them consider FIRST going through the field and REMOVING the giant
ROCKS, but prefer to make it as hard as possible for the horse. When
they amazingly DO NOT KILL the horse with this abusive behavior, it
then rains, washing away the entire crop (of turnips, no less). While
all this happens, the village folk -- who have no work or farms of
their own to run -- stand around IN THE RAIN watching! Literally, they
have no more sense than to stand in the rain in their good clothes.
Naturally, NOT ONE OF THEM -- all presumably village tenant farmers --
has a spare horse or mule, or even the decency to pitch in and help a
CRIPPLED MAN and his 14 year old boy. Nice town. Glad I don't live
there. Note: by 1914, if they had CARS, they had TRACTORS.

After this segment, there was nothing about the war scenes or Joey's
unlikely survival against all odds, that moved me or made me feel
anything for the characters. Jeremy Irvine, as Albert (the boy) is
especially weak, and he doesn't look 14 (he also looks identical at 18,
whereas we all know that boys change VERY rapidly in physique in those
4 years).

At the end, when Joey and Albert return from war....well, they
apparently take a wrong turn and end up in WYOMING. Because suddenly
there are western-like expanses of land, and big golden sunsets and
vistas that go on forever. Frankly, it's not Devonshire, England.

Among the many subplots -- where Joey is handed along by one
unbelievably kind and decent person to another, literally the nicest
warring folks in history -- one set in a French farmhouse, with the
world's most annoying kid with the world's lamest fake French accent,
is a real low point. Later, we hear the little girl has died -- old
movie disease, since she looks healthy as, well, a horse -- we just
feel relief we don't have to hear her fake French accent again (I was
afraid she'd resurface somewhat older, as a romantic partner for
Albert).

Sorry, I can't buy one frame of this film. A big disappointment. If you
do get a chance to view some of the puppetry from the theatrical play,
don't miss it -- THAT is magnificent. But the film, just third rate.
<|_=00=_|>
Steven Spielberg has assembled many fantastic movies, like Schindler's
List, Jaws, E.T, Saving Private Ryan, etc. His new creation, War Horse
is a stunning achievement. The film was professionally made, it looked
amazing, sounded great. Legendary composer, John Williams crafted an
amazing and beautiful score. It was one of the best, I've heard in
years.

Jeremy Irvine delivers a very heartfelt and convincing performance,
he's just great. The rest of the cast, Emily Watson, Peter Mullan,
David Thewlis, Tom Hiddleston, etc were all great, as well. However the
star of the film, The Horse was simply amazing, the facial expressions
were all spot on. Its just great, how you see the movie, from a horse
perspective. Steven Spielberg deserves a lot of praise for that, and I
hoper he gets it.

The cinematography is as good as it gets, its simply astounding. The
film's cinematographer, Janusz Kamiński deserves all the praise he
gets, an Oscar surely awaits him. The movie deserves all the technical
praise, it gets. The editing is well done, the art direction is
spectacular, the look of the film is quite breathtaking, at times.

The film is uncompromisingly sentimental, and I wasn't annoyed by it.
Because it worked so well, it made me care about the story, the
characters, the horses. A good old fashion studio epic, I miss them and
I'm happy Spielberg delivered one. There are a lot of powerful scenes
in the movie, from which I cried. It was just so moving, it showed the
true consequences of war. Some of the battle sequences were simply
fantastic and astonishing.

I am happy to see, Steven Spielberg in his top form. He showed, that
he's still one of the best in the business and I hope to see more of
him in the future. It may not be his best film, but it certainly a
wonderful film to watch. I'd recommend anyone to see the film, it will
appeal to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
"Lassie" meets "Saving Private Ryan". This movie is Sappy and
Predictable, a complete disappointment. It has good visuals and big
dramatic music and that's about it. The Critics of Hollywood must owe
these guys Money or something, for giving it such good reviews. The
Human lead is a sniffling twerp whose background is not developed. The
Father is an angry Irish Drunk who's actually a tortured Hero
Character, whose story is not developed. The Mother is a Loving all
Forgiving Character. The other people are one stereotypical, poorly
developed character after another. You can see everything coming.It's
Two Whole Hours of my Life I'll never get back. The Story and
Characters are too simple and superficial to keep an adults interest
but, the War Violence and Exaggerated Animal Cruelty is a Bit much for
Kids.
<|_=00=_|>
When it was announced that Steven Spielberg was directing a film
adaptation of War Horse, fans across the UK were a little apprehensive.

After all, the stage play and book were massive hits, so the film would
have a lot to live up to. Early reviews are now saying that this film
will be in the running for major Academy Awards  a statement that
seems accurate after watching the film.

Based on the book by Michael Morpurgo, War Horsedepicts the story of
Albert Narracott, played by Jeremy Irvine, and his treasured horse Joey
in Britain where World War I is about to begin. Joey is sold to the
cavalry by Albert's alcoholic father and finds himself trapped in the
devastating fields of war while Albert is trying to find him.

Spielberg finds a balance between heartfelt emotion, especially from
seeing the war through Joey's eyes and the people he meets along the
way, and the tragic problems the main characters face, for example the
separation between Joey and Albert after we have watched them bond and
connect in the first part of the film. It is those emotional contrasts
that Spielberg translates onto the screen well, perhaps the best one
being the contrast between the overall setting of the devastation and
trauma of World War I and the love between the main character and his
horse portrayed throughout the film.

Although some of the cast are newcomers to cinema, they put on a
stellar performance. Jeremy Irvine perfectly portrays on screen the
character's determination and devotion to find his horse. Practically
unknown before this film, his performance in War Horse has now made him
one to watch. The rest of the cast include Emily Watson, Peter Mullan,
Tom Hiddleston, and Niels Arestrup.

War Horse is the perfect film to settle down with the family for
Christmas. It is a touching, beautiful depiction of the relationship
between a boy and his horse, and of life in the countryside during
World War I. The usual bloodbath and gory murder scenes are ditched in
favour of a genuine story that manages to provoke passion and deep
emotion in the audience, and overall this fits into the beauty of the
narrative.

Check more reviews from The Upcoming on
http://www.theupcoming.co.uk/?cat=9
<|_=00=_|>
Spielberg's film is his vision of Michael Morpurgo's beloved book,
which must surely now be essential reading for all kids, if it wasn't
before.

Superficially it's about a horse named Joey and a boy called Albert,
who become inseparable through a series of unfortunate events  World
War I being one of them. A closer look reveals a story of such
overwhelming humanity that I was bowled over. Spielberg was the only
director for this film because he knows what it means to be a child.

Whether or not it is apparent in the book, there's no doubt this is a
war film, one that ranks with Spielberg's 'Saving Private Ryan' and
'Schindler's List'. Emily Watson's character utters a line about the
refusal of being proud of killing, which is the line one might use to
summarise the film's point. Because Spielberg is Jewish, this line is
pregnant with meaning. It's his noble way of saying that, despite the
suffering received by his kin, he is willing to forgive their
oppressors.

There's a scene where Joey is trapped by barbed-wire in no man's land
and is freed by the combined effort of an Englishman and a German, who
put aside their differences under the name of human decency. The scene
is breathtaking, and it's the sort which no-one does better than
Spielberg.

Long-time collaborator John Williams provides a moving score,
regardless of its resemblance to the one he composed for 'Saving
Private Ryan'. Director of Photography Janusz Kaminski reminds us of
the beauty of our rural regions by photographing the Devonshire
countryside with reverence.

Jeremy Irvine, Peter Mullan, David Thewlis, Benedict Cumberbatch, Niels
Arestrup and Tom Hiddleston form the principal cast and are wonderful.
Nothing could have prepared me for how much I'd be moved. There's no
reason why you won't be.

moseleyb13.com
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to see War Horse in a special pre-screening last
week, and I can safely say I will be seeing it again when its released
on Christmas day. I went in with relatively low expectations, after
watching the series of mediocre trailers, and walked out being able to
safely say that War Horse is one of the best movies of the year, one of
Steven Spielberg's best films, and, quite possibly, one of the best war
films ever made, up there with my personal favorites The Thin Red Line,
Apocalypse Now and Paths of Glory. 

Steven Spielberg had long said that he didn't want to make Saving
Private Ryan again. He said he wanted War Horse to be a war movie that
parents cant take their children to and teach them something about love
and war, and in this respect I can say that he more than succeeded.
Spielberg comes close to the clinical perfection of Private Ryan, but
more importantly, from an emotional perspective, War Horse far exceeds
Private Ryan. There are many people apt to cry at Private Ryan, but War
Horse is more likely to cause tears at a similar level to, say,
Schindler's List. More importantly, unlike either Schindler or Private
Ryan, War Horse is unlikely to cause any sort of political or moral
complaints. He never tempers the anti-war message with nationalist
tripe. Rather, he plays war straight. War is evil, men are good. There
are no sides in this movie. In fact, at various points throughout the
film, he seems to directly reject Saving Private 's heroism is dying
for country message.

War Horse is based on the children's book and play of the same name. It
is about a boy who's father, on a whim, buys a horse for his son that
he knows will never be what is needed for the farm work it is purchased
for. The boy forms an incredible bond with the horse. The first forty
five minutes of the film is spent establishing the relationship between
boy and horse. This part of the film is rather slow, but is necessary
to establishing the film's central relationships, and is quickly made
up for by the shift in pace as soon as the war begins. From the
Scottish country side, after this important turning point in world
history, War Horse shifts to France, where the titular horse is serving
after being sold to the army. The boy is a year or two too young to
follow his horse to Europe at this point, so for the next section, the
film follows the horse only. From here on out, I will leave the plot a
mystery, but it is gripping, thrilling, and very emotional.

There are two scenes in War Horse that I think are worthy of further
mention. The first is a charge across no man's land. For anyone not
familiar with the bulk of World War I's combat, it consisted of months
at a time of back and forth shooting between trenches, broken up by
awful charges across no man's land, to take a few hundred yards of
enemy territory. These charges, as short as they were, as a result of
the machine gun, came with death tolls in the thousands or higher. War
Horse contains one of these charges, and it is carried out with both
taste, and near perfect artistry. It is just grisly enough to get the
reality across, but not so grisly that it makes the movie impossible to
show to younger audiences. In fact, this trench charge ranks up with
Steven Spielberg's other famous World War battle scene, the beach
landing in Saving Private Ryan. It doesn't quite make it, but it comes
close.

The other scene worthy of mention also occurs in the trenches, and
reflects the other side of War Horse. The titular horse gets caught in
the barbed wire in No Man's Land. The soldiers on either side spot it.
No one knows what to do, as it is clear that its in incredible pain,
but they know that leaving their respective trench would expose them to
machine gun fire. Eventually two soldiers, one British, the other
German both move to free the horse. The soldiers on both sides know
what is going on, so no one fires a shot. This scene is unbelievably
touching. The discussion they have (the German soldier happens to speak
good English, explained adequately through a joke) will move even the
most cynical of viewers, and gives a good idea of just what perspective
War Horse takes to the act of war.

There are a few small problems in War Horse that, in most films, I
would take issue with, but I will forgive in this case as I feel that
they are so necessary for this film to appeal to younger audiences. The
German soldiers speak English to one another, a big pet peeve for me. I
would have preferred for French characters to speak subtitled French
and German characters to speak subtitled Germans, but I recognize that
many younger viewers refuse to read subtitles. There are a few
unnecessary jokes, but again, younger viewers will enjoy these.
Spielberg, as always, has three different endings tacked onto the
movie, in this case necessary to provide the cut and dry resolution
younger viewers require. As I said, these are still problems, but they
are, for better or worse, required to accomplish what Spielberg was
trying to.

I can say with absolute certainty that when Christmas rolls around, I
will be dragging all my younger relatives to a screening of War Horse.
I have never seen a movie so able to pull its punches enough to get a
PG- 13 rating, but show enough to explain just what it is about war
that makes it such an odious, disgusting, awful affair. In short, see
War Horse as soon as you possibly can.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie expecting NOT to like it. But, for 2 hours and
15 mins I was totally enthralled. I don't understand the reviews that
have disliked this wonderful movie. If you want a cinematic experience
this will tick the boxes. This is simply a great story - well told. Its
also visually stunning. There's no stupid CGI. There's no gratuitous
violence - the violent moments are tastefully choreographed and at
times heartbreakingly realistic - without going for sensationalism.
I'll not tell you the story or give any spoilers. Except to say this.
Girls - bring hankies! Guys - don't be put off by the hankies - there's
plenty of good action and the story is brilliant anyway. If you want a
normal brainless CGI blockbuster - look elsewhere. If you want a class
GREAT MOVIE GO AND SEE WARHORSE - you will not regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
before i get going, and so that you may not be lead to believe that i
am on an anti-Spielberg crusade, let me clear something up first: 

i'm the guy who loved Hook! 

okay? are we straight now? alright, let's go then... 

at one point, every director must ask him or herself the seminal
question: who cares? and, invariably, the answer must at least be: i
do! that is a process seemingly absent from Mr. Spielberg's oeuvre as a
director of late, not even to mention his work as a producer (terra
nova anyone?) the trouble is that, for my money and ever since The Lost
World: Jurassic Park, each and every one of the ordinary people he
loves so much has been underdeveloped prototypes that count on our
now-standardized assumptions to appear challenged by the extraordinary
circumstances they find themselves in. it is incompetent at best and
lazy at anticipated. worst, though, goes to careless, the state he now
seems to have devolved to, spoiling a career built on thoughtful
consideration of his self, now outsourced to our expectations of what a
"Spielberg movie" is supposed to be.

from The Sugarland Express to e.t. by way of Close Encounters, it was
always evident to me that he took his supposed fun quite seriously.
fully-fleshed characters were all there, painstakingly and brilliantly
introduced for lasting flavor; their motivations were human and real so
that we may allow ourselves to cheer them on without shame or
reservation and their meaningfulness was made obvious by the audiences'
tears which, in the words of Pauline Kael, were "tokens of gratitude
for the spell the picture had put on (them.)" 

warhorse, for me, missed every single one of those opportunities... 

first of all, let me say this for the record: fade ins and outs are for
people who don't know how to finish a scene. and for a director of this
stature, in the first minutes of a grand epic, to use them not even to
mark the passage of time, but to actually transition from daily moment
to daily moment, while still in the expository section as we discover
who we are dealing with, is of the weakest lack of confidence this side
of The Terminal. in fact, the whole first act of this here slice of a
lifetime movie could easily, but for the sweeping harmonies of Mr. John
Williams' violins, pass for the director's cut of an over-ambitious
Irish spring commercial. let us enumerate the people we meet in the
first 15 minutes of this farce: 

- the handsome young teen who falls in love with a horse. - the drunk
father with a mysterious, but brave, past. - the dutiful wife whose
quiet dignity passes for depth. - the mutton-chopped evil landlord
threatening to evict. 

to call these characters cliché would do them honor. they are but
prototypical cardboard cutouts whom able screenwriter Richard Curtis
must have been forced to write to defuse a time bomb strapped to his
pet turtle, for he was apparently convinced to assume that the audience
would be so familiar with these templates that we would happily fill
the gaping void left by their lack of motivation or character with what
we could remember from Babe. after seeing such carelessness in this and
Tintin in the same week, is it possible to conclude that the beard has
lost his eye for casting, his ear for dialog and instinct for story?

as we journey from English to french to German owners of what we are
told is "a fabulous beast," we are, once again, confronted by an
American director who does not dare subtitle his foreigners, which is
really sad. especially in this movie, in which each dialect lasts for
less than 30 minutes, it would have added a sorely needed touch of
realism to an otherwise already over-sweetened tale. may it be too
forward to say that if you missed the too-subtle "grand-pere" or
"schnell!" you might think all these people are English? not only that
but from hot teen English boy to fragile little french girl to portly
and sweet German underling, everyone who loves the horse is a raging
stereotype of cute and cuddliness. it is also quasi-insulting that a
bottle of medicine is all Spielberg seems to need these days to make us
care for a little girl whose skeleton, we are told none too subtly,
might collapse any second now. here, we are treated to a simple binary
system: people who shoot horses: bad. people who love horses: good. 

but, you'll say, you're missing the point, this is not about them at
all, this is about the horse! ah yes, the horse. does anyone care about
horses this much that they are willing to take on faith that this one
was so extraordinary as to inspire so many sacrifices from all who met
it?! all this horse does is run, for 2 hours save for some human
fighting in the 3rd act. which i wouldn't have had a problem with but
for the fact that he runs for no reason! he is not trying to save
anyone, bring a satchel full of secrets from one side to another or
even find his original owner, all of which might have been good enough
reasons to cheer him on. here, he runs for nothing! 

and let's talk about the only non-horse sequence of the film. it seems
to only be there to break up the sentimentality with a
"see-what-i-can-do-with-war?" moment from a director who has long-lost
his conviction. are we supposed to believe that in the blue glow of
early morning in a war during which 100s of 1000s of people were lost,
soldiers regain their basic humanity thanks to one animal caught in
barbed wire?! 

i'm upset because this is not adult filmmaking. this is simply doing
something because one can.
