
So when I saw that they're "rebooting" Fantastic Four, I thought, "this
could actually be really good. This has the chance to start things over
and be something great." The trailers showed potential - they featured
a new premise with some great new concepts. Also, take note that I'm
not a superhero/comic book fan. I am a filmmaker, though. 

Josh Trank is the director of this film. He also directed the film
Chronicle, and I think that's a great movie, with several
characteristics that are actually similar to this film. 

I think the first major clue for me that this movie was doomed was,
surprisingly, its tagline. "Change is coming". As a filmmaker, I know
that a big concept movies want to have nowadays is "everything changes"
- the idea that everything is started over or some big event is going
to happen. One of The Amazing Spider-Man 2's taglines was "everything
changes". Transformers 4 had the tagline of "the rules have changed"
and "everything will change". This film's taglines are "change is
coming", and "when you change the world, prepare to defend it". Movie
taglines dealing with "change" are typically weak and overused methods
of making movies seem like they're creating a "clean slate", or for
lack of a better word, a reboot. If your movie tagline deals with
change - at least make the film somewhat memorable. These three movies
weren't memorable. 

Another major clue for me that this movie was doomed was its running
time of 100 minutes. Why? Because when you have a film like this - a
reboot, where it has to introduce various new characters, set them up
and a new premise/universe, the movie isn't going to be an hour and a
half long. It's going to be two hours. Those extra twenty- thirty
minutes can make a difference. For the record, the first two Fantastic
Four movies had around the same running time. The original film was
only six minutes longer. But that movie wasn't the best one, either. 

I reminded myself of X-Men. X-Men was a great movie. It had a similar
running time, but not the same task, as it wasn't a reboot. Yet as the
first installment in a franchise, it did a fantastic job at setting
things up. There isn't much that's fantastic about Fantastic Four. 

Now to tell you what's wrong with this movie. First off, the pacing.
The running time really is a problem. This film is rushed beyond belief
and its plot is nonsensical. The characters' introductions are decent
enough, particularly the Fantastic Four, but their roles throughout the
rest of the film are disconcerted. It gets very boring when things are
meant to be exciting. Exposition can be tiring, but after the
exposition ended and the action was supposed to pick up - it didn't.
Second, the plot. As I said above, the film's plot seemed interesting.
It had potential and it looked like it could go somewhere, especially
considering how superhero movies nowadays have managed to flesh out
their stories and make them very enjoyable. There are even hints at
awesome things to come at certain points. But the film's in shambles.
You hope and feel it will go somewhere, but in its hour and a half
running time, it feels so empty. One of the reasons for that is the
third thing, the writing. The writing isn't good - the film's climactic
conflict feels backed up into the end of the movie, because there
wasn't enough time to set it up. The writing caused the pacing to be
terrible - transitions between scenes weren't good and some scenes
either went on for too long or were far too short. This movie shouldn't
have been afraid to be longer (or the studio should've let it be that
way) - it could have done that and been so much better. I also don't
know why the Torch was played by a black actor. Again, I'm not a
comic-book fan, and I'm certainly not racist, but I know enough to know
that the Torch is white. I don't understand why they couldn't keep him
that way. The acting of the Fantastic Four as a whole was "okay". But
they just didn't feel like a team - there was no bond between them, and
that's what should certainly be established in a movie like this.
That's a big thing that killed this film, was the lack of teamwork.
Seeing them together in the movie just felt so bland because there was
no real interaction between them. There are so many big, obvious things
wrong with this movie. Speaking of "things", The Thing is entirely CGI.
No make-up, costume or anything - just a giant, naked rock monster.
Yes, he's naked, too. Not even any shorts. Huh. 

Reboots, remakes, prequels and sequels are pouring in nowadays, and
many of them are constantly bombing. Fantastic Four is, unfortunately,
one of them. But I'm still very surprised over just how bad it turned
out. This film is currently a box office catastrophe.. Very few
superhero movies within the last decade have a rating as low as this
one does. It currently has a 3.9 rating on here, an incredibly low 9%
on Rotten Tomatoes, and perhaps the lowest Metascore I've seen for a
modern superhero movie - 27/100. Putting the critics aside, which is
what should typically be done - this movie is a boring, weak,
irrational attempt to reboot the Fantastic Four series. 

By the way, a sequel is set to come out in June 2017. Good thing they
announced that before the film came out ... a few months ago, of
course. If you know what happened to The Amazing Spider-Man series, you
may know what could very well happen here. Ultimately, while I wasn't
pleased with the film, I do hope you enjoy it more than I did.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was awful. As a comic book fan I felt like Josh Trank just
slapped me in the face by using so very little of the actual comics. He
basically used the name of a comic I love to get me to see it and then
gave me a different movie. The casting was awful (none of the
characters matched their comic counter part. They were all too young so
of course Reed Richards didn't have gray streaks, who thought it would
be a good idea to make a tiny guy the Thing?, and was it really
necessary to make the Storm family have a "modern home"? That's more of
a story that would fit in the X-Men), the origins dragged on for too
long, and their origin wasn't even the same! The Fantastic 4 is
supposed to be all about space travel not going to other dimensions.
That's Dr. Strange's territory. I walked out of this garbage and got my
money back.
<|_=00=_|>
Over the last decade, we have seen a number of superhero movies get a
much needed reboot. After the atrocious Batman & Robin, Batman was
brilliantly brought back to the big screen in Batman Begins. When the
Spider-Man franchise hit an embarrassing rock bottom with Spider-Man 3,
it was reinvigorated with the very likable The Amazing Spider-Man. 

Eight years on from the dud that was Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver
Surfer and it's time that Marvel's first family got a reboot. With a
lot of rumours flying around about trouble on set and the studio not
seeming to have total confidence in their product, could 2015's
Fantastic Four do these iconic comic-book characters justice?

Reed Richards (Miles Teller) is a brilliant young scientist on the
verge of discovering how to both transport matter to another dimension
and bring it back. Recruited by Professor Franklin Storm (Reg E.
Cathey), Reed is given the resources and help, in the form of Sue Storm
(Kate Mara), Victor Von Doom (Toby Kebbell) and Johnny Storm (Michael
B. Jordan), to to finish what he started in his younger years.

When they finally crack inter-dimensional travel, Reed invites his
childhood friend Ben Grimm (Jamie Bell) to travel to another world
along with him and his team. An accident causes their physical form to
drastically change. Reed, Sue, Johnny and Ben must learn to harness
their powers and work as a team to stop Victor, who is hell bent on
destroying Earth.

The one thing that stood out to me about Fantastic Four is just how
unbelievably dull it is. For characters who have such a rich and
colourful history in the comics, this really is a pretty drab affair.
The film only has a 100 minute runtime however, it feels much longer,
dragging its feet and feeling very tired right from the very start.

When a superhero movie gets less exciting after they get their powers,
something is very very wrong.

I had some hope for this film and one of the main reason was down to
the fact that Josh Trank was sat in the director's chair. Trank hit the
big time with Chronicle, a film that combined the superhero genre with
found footage. I can't express just how disappointed I am with Trank
because everything about Fantastic Four is just so sloppy.

The story is weak, the script is cringeworthy and the special effects
are average at best. It all culminates in one of the most boring
finales you will ever witness in a superhero movie. Compared to what
else you see happen in other superhero movies these days, it all looks
and feels amateur.

Then there are the performances. Miles Teller, Kate Mara, Michael B.
Jordan, Jamie Bell and Toby Kebbell are all young actors who have the
world at their feet. They have each impressed in their own way prior to
Fantastic Four but every single one of them has the range of the cast
in Tim Story's Fantastic Four films and waste their talents in Trank's
reboot.

Fantastic Four is a film very much out of time and place in today's
market of superhero movies. Ten or fifteen years ago a studio might
have been able to get away with it but not today. Audiences like to be
entertained and with the competition offering much more excitement, I
don't see audiences taking to this, at all.
<|_=00=_|>
Terrible movie as previous reviewer writes the pacing is all wrong the
characters are bleh you don't feel any attachment to them with them
creating no chemistry.The middle section of the movie is drawn out
while the climax feels rushed like the director went gosh where running
out of time quick rap it up. After the recent awesome avenger movies
and the Thors this felt like some hacked together 1990s offering.The
story has so many gaps in it with supposedly super smart scientist
doing super stupid things and Miles Teller playing Mr Fantastic is just
a terrible choice he has no screen presence as a leader. Wait for DVD
or what ever and let it go quietly in to the past .
<|_=00=_|>
Fantastic Four started catching my eye in the casting stage. Seemingly
not giving a damn about the source material, it was refreshing to see
those kind of balls especially from Marvel. While I welcome Michael B.
Jordan as The Human Torch, I wish I could say the same thing about the
rest of the film. Fantastic Four is merely a reboot that loses its
steam after the first act. Coming in at just over an hour and a half,
the film is a rushed piece of reject summer movie drab. The characters
are paper thin and about 10 years too young for their respective roles.
The visual effects are far from stunning, especially The Thing, whose
transformation into the ghastly beast is something closer to a PS2 game
than an actual film with a $100 million price tag. Miles Teller proves
here that his performance in Whiplash is truly a fluke. As Mr.
Fantastic, he struggles to sound like he knows what he is talking
about. Perhaps a little more rehearsal time and a little less focus on
that cheap looking silver streak in his hair could have benefited him.
Kate Mara as Susan Storm is about as idiotic as it can get. Mara is a
great actress, there's no other way about it but Kate Mara as Susan
Storm is terrible and borderline embarrassing. The biggest shock here
in this film is where all the controversy started...Michael B. Jordan
as The Human Torch. Jordan's ability to be a badass likable gear head
is insanely good. He's the best part of this film by far. If there is
anyone that could single handedly carry this film on their back, it is
him. The film overall is too dark for Fantastic Four and too shallow
for Marvel which leaves it drifting somewhere between ridiculous and
not necessary...and at times, both. If there's any movie to see this
summer, I can assure you, Fantastic Four is NOT it.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm honestly not surprised one bit that I didn't enjoy this movie.The
trailer was awful,and it was obvious the movie was only made for Fox to
keep the rights to this piece of garbage. The main problem with this
movie is that it tries so hard to be dark and gritty.The movie isn't
gritty at all.Dark?Yes at some points,but not in a good way. Another
problem with this abomination is it's pace.Oh my god,the pace of this
movie is incredibly slow.I'm in disbelief I didn't fall
asleep.Honestly,the films pace is so slow,it's hard to know what's
going on at times due to how bored you are. Next is the acting.While I
though young Miles Teller did decent,the other actors were awful.I
honestly feel everyone,especially Kate Mara,was miscast.It seems to me
as if every actor was bored,but hey so was the audience! Another
problem is the villain.I don't have much to say about Doom,besides the
fact that he was forced into the film for the sake of having a
villain.He wasn't threatening for even a second;He was just a joke,like
the film itself. Lastly,the film is a set up for films to come.It's
obvious it is,so Fox can keep the rights.From rumors out there,it's
trying to set up sequels,which is true,and it's trying to set itself up
with the X-Men Franchise,which I hope not. Overall,the film was an
atrocity,just like it's predecessors,and the only good thing was
probably the CGI.Then again,it wasn't even that amazing.The CGI wasn't
as good,as say,'The Amazing Spider-Man 2'or 'Guardians of the Galaxy'.
My rating is a 2/10,and it'd be a 1/10 if the CGI was a tad bit worse.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie with hope and optimism and not put off by the
negative light shone towards it. An hour and 40 minutes later, I left
feeling empty and unsatisfied. Comic book films are supposed to make
you feel inspired, but not this one. 

So what is wrong with it? One word  chemistry. In any superhero
team/ensemble there should be great character interactions and a
feeling that these guys can effectively make a team, never mind a
''fantastic'' team. The best team movies all have characters playing
off each other as in the Avengers and X-Men.  However, there is zero
chemistry between any of the F4. We see an attempt at some early
romance between Reed and Sue which doesn't go anywhere. Johnny Storm is
billed as a genius but troubled kid however we never see why he has a
high IQ, he is just shifted in to make up the numbers. We never see him
form any sustainable bond with any of the others. Ben Grimm also
appears as an outsider, brought in with little sense to the project to
fill the final slot. The chemistry between the original F4 (2005) was
MUCH better whereas here they feel like 4 individuals. 

 

The climatic battle takes place in the most boring environment that you
can imagine. It is over within 10 minutes, with not much ingenuity to
overcome a half decent attempt at Dr Doom, who at first seems very
intimidating. This film will be quickly forgotten and the question
isn't whether a sequel will be made or whether it will cross over with
X-Men, but is the original Fantastic 4 film a better watch than this
depressing, dull comic book movie. Final score 5.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie had potential to be bigger than the rather 'bleak' 2005
version. I wasn't overly impressed with the younger cast but thought
maybe they would take a different aspect on the film. I was also keen
on how Dr. Doom would be portrayed and how he would influence the film
as a villain. 

I couldn't be more wrong. 

-There was limited character back-story on the Fan 4 -There was no
middle just a five minute climax at the end that was hardly gripping
-The cringe-worthy quotes towards the end of the film were just
punishing to watch -Dr. Doom looks like a Droid and goes completely
insane over a minor issue and the movie doesn't quite explain why -Dr.
Doom is also meant to be one of the most O.P characters in the comics
but yet he seems to drop down to the levels of the Fan 4 in the final
battle which previously you saw him destroy anything in his path
previously. -Whats the go with Tim Nelson being in this movie seriously
can they stop regurgitating actors from previously failed ' marvel '
movies and maybe have a fresh start for some characters, especially for
someone with a mediocre role as he had -Not really a huge issue but
very disappointingly no after credits scenes which are signature to
marvel based moves ( even though it is owned by FOX ) 

The only reason I have given it a 3 is the visual effects, only for one
character though. The Thing looked insane compared to the 2005 version,
only problem was due to the short length of the movie he got limited
time and whipped out some really punishing quotes towards the end of
the movie. Also I did like Franklin Storm in this film, he was a
breathe of fresh air...but again wasn't perfected pulling out some
pretty cheesy lines.

So overall it was a total dud, no background characterisation on the
characters, if there was it was limited and to go along with the short
running time, it was hard to watch. Dialogue was just really, really
average and I spent a lot of time watching the movie with my hands on
my head in agony.
<|_=00=_|>
Just because you can do it doesn't mean that you should  and this
wholly unnecessary and woefully terrible reboot of Marvel's most famous
superteam is proof of that axiom. Say what you may about Tim Story's
earlier cinematic adaptations, but as generic and middling as they
were, they were at the very least entertaining. Unfortunately, the same
cannot even be said of Josh Trank's back-to- basics origin story, which
plays like a humourless retread of his debut film 'Chronicle' but on a
bigger budget  and lest there be any doubt, it is far, far from
fantastic.

Not that it doesn't demonstrate such promise; the first act which
establishes the friendship between the visionary Reed Richards (Miles
Teller) and his tough-guy longtime best pal Ben Grimm (Jamie Bell) as
well as the team dynamics between Reed and the other members of his
research team  the equally brilliant Sue (Kate Mara), her hot- headed
younger brother Johnny (Michael B. Jordan), and malcontent genius
Victor Von Doom (Toby Kibbell)  capably lay the foundation for what
could have been a character-driven drama based on their clashing
personalities. Indeed, after the boys sans Sue decide on a whim
following a night of intoxication to put their teleporting machine to
the test, how they respond to their newfound super-powers individually
and as a team should be an organic evolution from how they were before.

Alas, Trank, who co-wrote the screenplay with 'X-Men' veteran Simon
Kinberg and Jeremy Slater, doesn't quite know where to go from there.
Rather than setting them on a course that would follow the perennial
'X-Men' theme of inclusiveness versus insularity against the rest of
society, our teenage super-heroes are pretty much seen only in an
isolated military facility where they are trained and from which they
are deployed on covert operations overseas. While Johnny relishes the
opportunity to be different, powerful and useful for once in his life,
Sue and Ben are not quite so sanguine and participate insofar as there
remains a possibility that the Government's research on them would
yield some way of reversing their abnormalities. In the meantime, Reed
has vanished off the grid, while Victor is presumed dead on the planet
they had landed up on in the other dimension.

One senses a conscious decision on the part of Trank to eschew the
usual superheroics seen in the recent profusion of Marvel and to a
lesser extent DC comic book adaptations, but the middle act drags
precisely because Trank never quite finds a compelling substitute.
Johnny's potential conflict with Sue and Ben over the Government's
exploitation of their super-powers never amounts to anything more than
a playground squabble. The estrangement between Johnny and his father
(Reg E. Cathey), whose Baxter Institute had overseen the ill- fated
project, is under-cooked. And last but not least, Reed's guilt over his
teammates' fates as well as his strained friendship with Ben seem to
vanish as quickly as he is apprehended and brought back to the facility
to aid them in version 2.0 of the same project.

Trank's intention of emphasising the tension within the quartet is
evident and admirable, but is ultimately undone by a script that
doesn't develop it in any substantive manner. Worse still, it leaves an
audience looking for visual spectacle severely wanting, that not even a
very busy third act manages to salvage. Doom makes an unsurprising
return here as their common enemy, driven by a fusion of body and alien
matter to cause global destruction and around whose defeat to ensure
the survival of planet Earth becomes a rallying call for the team to
unite despite their differences. It is one of the dullest and most
unexciting finales we've seen in a Marvel movie, not least for the fact
that it doesn't know how to collectively bring together their
superpowers except in a tag-team fashion to distract their opponent. 

It is also on the whole one of the ugliest comic book movies we've ever
seen. The planet from which the quartet gain their powers is a barren
rocky wasteland that has no character or distinction whatsoever,
shrouded perpetually with thick grey clouds and given the even more
nondescript name of 'Zero'. The energy that gives them their abilities
appears as some slimy green goo that belongs entirely in a C-grade Syfy
TV movie, while their powers  whether Reed's rubber limbs or Sue's
telekinesis or Johnny's pyrotechnics or Ben's rock-covered body  look
equally cheesy. It is no wonder too that the eventual showdown, which
takes place almost entirely on the planet surface of 'Zero', doesn't
play out any much better against such a bland setting, coming off even
worse than any of the action scenes in its predecessors.

And certainly, this reboot is in no way better than Tim Story's earlier
adaptations, no matter of its ambition of being a darker and more
character-driven superhero piece. 'Chronicle' may have been a perfect
calling card for Trank, but 'Fantastic Four' shows a young,
inexperienced director completely out of his depth, absolutely
justifying the advance bad buzz it had spent months battling. It is
utterly embarrassing that a film about Marvel's most enduring creations
is no better than a live-action 'Power Rangers' movie, but that's
exactly the ignominy that this misconceived and badly executed excuse
of a superhero movie has wrought.

As is typical with such origin stories, this one ends with the quartet
'stumbling' on their title as they admire their new home in Central
City and reflecting on how far they have come. Ben aka the Thing
describes their journey as "fantastic"; we're not entirely sure anyone
of their audience shares the same sentiment.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't expecting to enjoy this movie at all. I was a huge skeptic
when the first trailer came out thinking it would be another FF movie
chock full of cheesy one-liners and cartoony humor. In that respect, I
was way off. Josh Trank's Fantastic Four is grounded in relative
realism, showing what would likely happen if people did in fact crack
inter-dimensional travel and brought back superpowers. It has a darker
tone than the other movies and is a wildly different experience because
of it. The characters are more relatable, their situations are more
believable, and for a good part of the movie, it actually feels like
you're watching the true Fantastic Four origin story unfold.

I can't blame Trank for the discrepancies I have with the movie because
he is not at fault. Apparently the producers demanded reshoots which
rear their ugly head about 20 minutes from the end. It turns from this
relatively dark, stylish superhero drama to an overblown one-liner
infested CGI-fest. Mind you, I was still pulling for the heroes the
entire time, but the moments following, preceding and including the
final confrontation are so forcefully rushed and haphazardly put
together it completely disconnects you from what the first hour of the
movie set-up. The climax is generic and lackluster, and the believable
shaky chemistry the characters shared in the beginning of the movie
becomes incredibly forced and awkward. The shift is so drastic it's as
if they Frankenstein'd two separate movies together, making for one
extremely disjointed watching experience.

Miles Teller and the rest of the cast have the benefit of being
immensely likable. They worked well together and had palpable chemistry
for a good chunk of the movie. Even Doom was fine. Once I got past the
fact that it wasn't the comic book's adaptation of "Doctor Doom" and
took him at face value as a sci-fi villain, I thought he worked wonders
and actually posed a genuine threat to humanity. The CGI as a whole is
great - a few moments will leave you scratching your head as in "was
that really necessary?" but for the most part, the alternate dimension
looks fantastic and the few fight scenes there are (literally only two
or three) are executed well.

Again, these are simply hints of what the movie could've been. It's
obvious Trank had a vision with this world, and it's a damn shame that
we won't be able to see it in full effect. What we're left with is a
promising set-up and a complete mess of a third act with potential
bleeding out right up until the final frames. Fantastic Four is more
realistic and immersive than the other two adaptations, but
unfortunately not as fun as either. What we're left with is an exercise
in "what could have been" and another superhero movie with promising
aspects that simply did not click.
