
One would expect a rich cultural or more in-depth take of possession
premise with a title such as The Vatican Tapes. Unfortunately, it's
nothing more than mediocre horror with barely anything new. Not to
mention it's trapped between forced found footage style for some parts
and shaky cam for the rest.

It's the story as old as the supposed entity possessing the poor
victim, in this case Angela (Olivia Taylor Dudley). She begins showing
weird behavior and it eventually attracts the attention of Vatican. For
acting department, there are actually some decent names here such as
Michael Peña, Djimon Hounsou or Dougray Scott. They all have worked in
bigger movies or played different roles, and there's a visible effort
here, but the material is so thin their characters feel lackluster.

Pacing is also another issue. The way it's presented might make the
timeline seem odd, it switches back and forth between early stages of
haunting and eventual discovery. However, the transition is poor and it
doesn't escalate well, although that's partially because of the timid
horror. Visually, it's very confusing, often using documentary style
such as following character with camcorder perspective or CCTV videos,
all of which are unnecessary and only manage to limit the presentation.

As for the creepy parts, they are practically the stuffs of old. If you
have seen any similar movie in past couple of years, chances are you've
seen this before. A few scenes fare better, although these are also
heavily borrowed from other films. There's barely any grand sight or
atmosphere of Vatican, in fact the priests from holy city almost like
supporting character that pop up in small portion of the movie.

It's all right if the concept is not novel, many other movies have done
old concept well. However, The Vatican Tapes relies too heavily on
superficial gimmicks and sadly low on thrill.
<|_=00=_|>
Here we go again with the negative reviewers. I wonder what's wrong
with those people? You are not going to tell me that this is the worst
horror movie you ever saw, because then you talk a lot of bull... Okay
it's not the best movie about possession or exorcism but it sure ain't
the worst one. You can not compare it with The Exorcist because that
movie was one of the first one about that subject and for that time it
had everyone on the tip of their chair. Linda Blair will probably
remain the best actress as a possessed person but it doesn't mean that
other actors can't play that role. I thought Olivia Taylor Dudley did a
good job with her performance. Looking innocent and then pure evil, to
me it all looked real, and that's what's it all about with movies like
this one. I surely was entertained and I saw hundreds of worse horror
movies then The Vatican Tapes. Don't believe the haters here because
they don't know what they are talking about.
<|_=00=_|>
Possession films in the past such as "The Devil Inside" have proved to
be sick, and freak out the audience with the display of it's demonic
possession. PG-13 possession films have proved to be quite sick, and
perhaps good as well, hence "The Last Exorcism". This possession film,
"The Vatican Tapes" comes out solid, but tends to be quite clichéd.

Starting off with the story of this film, of which seems to be quite
simple. Our main character becomes possessed, and it progressively gets
worse, and worse overtime. Her family, with the aid of some priests
must figure out what's wrong and stop it. It seems very simple, but the
way the story is executed in this film was very solid, for what it was,
a simple, straight to the point plot. As the story continues, we get
more in depth with the demons personality, per say. We get to see what
it can do, and how it possesses it's powers to it's advantage. Overall,
the story / plot is quite simple, but without spoiling anything, the
movie carries it all out solidly, holding it's grasp.

The acting of this film, in my opinion was fine. Just fine. We get some
pretty decent actors combining together in this film, which is great
and all, but the situations they had to face lead they're acting to be
a bit sketchy at points. Some parts of the film, for example when the
actors fall back, scared, you kind of stare at the movie asking
yourself .. "What?" Parts of which they DO seem serious, just seems
funny toward the audience watching. In this case, they SEEM to be
overacting when certain points come, but are actually not, instead are
seeming that way due to the specific situation they're being put in.
But in conclusion to this element, the situations that came to horror [
The scares, exorcism, etc. ] it was fine, not fantastic. 

The scares of this movie, is defiantly something to conclude with. It's
pretty much clichéd. You've pretty much seen this tactic in many films
before. Dose this perhaps ring a bell? A bird flying at the window?
Through it? Yea. We've seen this before, at least once. There's also,
once again, without spoiling anything some other scares that have been
seen before, on top of that, some of them are even horribly placed in
time, making a failed attempt at scaring the audience, instead of
scaring them, giving them a laugh even. There are also some scares
floating around that will make you jump, but then when you realize what
it was that made you jump, you'd ask yourself "How did that scare me!?"
Either way, the point being there are few, to no scares that will get
you deep in the core in this film. In conclusion, if your looking to
get scared, from either tension itself, it won't happen. If you want an
ear blasting loud noise, here you go! Another cliché method themed film
filled with those! 

In conclusion. The movie had simple flaws of which are extremely
clichéd, however, the movie held grip with a solid execution, as well
as some decent demonic possession methods. It dose hold many elements
you typically see in other possession films, sure, but it was solid,
and managed to keep the audience entertained. One way or another. It
wasn't that bad of a film, but it lacked in critical horror elements,
like scares, and tension. As there were none. But never the less, this
horror flick was not bad at all. Just.. flawed deeply, and held back
due to it's PG-13 rating.
<|_=00=_|>
In Los Angeles, Angela Holmes (Olivia Dudley) is a happy young woman,
pride and joy of her father Colonel Roger Holmes (Dougray Scott) and in
love with her boyfriend Peter "Pete" Smith (John Patrick Amedori). On
her birthday party, she cuts her hand and Roger and Peter take her to
the hospital. When she returns home, she has a seizure and they drive
her back to the hospital. Then Angela is discharged but she pulls the
wheel of the taxi causing a serious accident. She returns in coma to
the hospital. Forty days later, she has no response and Father Oscar
Lozano (Michael Peña) convinces Roger to unplug the life support
system. Out of the blue, she awakes in perfect health. Soon Angela
shows signs of demoniac possession and the Vatican sends Cardinal Bruun
(Peter Andersson) to perform an exorcism to save her soul. Will there
be time to save her body?

"The Vatican Tapes" is a decent and underrated horror film, one of the
best about exorcism. The plot is based on Catholic beliefs but is
engaging. Most of the cast is excellent and has good performances;
maybe only Michael Peña has an inexpressive performance. The conclusion
has an open end maybe with the intention of a sequel. But in general,
"The Vatican Tapes" is satisfactory with an appropriate use of Handycam
or surveillance video. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Exorcistas do Vaticano" (Exorcists from the Vatican")
<|_=00=_|>
I was attracted by the idea of a horror film directed by Mark
Neveldine, whose previous filmography includes the delirious and very
entertaining films Crank and Crank: High Voltage (which he co- directed
with Brian Taylor). Unfortunately, The Vatican Tapes ended up being a
tedious horror film with a rancid screenplay which recycles every
single cliché from the films about satanic possession: the tormented
priest, the manifestations... No. I'm not going to waste time
mentioning all the clichés, because we all know them by heart. It will
be enough with saying that The Vatican Tapes is completely lacking of
suspense and creativity. The performances are absolutely apathetic and
lacking of conviction; not even the usually brilliant actors Michael
Peña and Djimon Hounsou display any enthusiasm or credibility in their
roles. Another problem from this movie is the fact that Neveldine
employs extreme close-ups over and over again, creating an atmosphere
which couldn't achieve the desired effect of anxiety; it just gets
confusing and boring due to its visual monotony. In conclusion, The
Vatican Tapes is a weak and unsatisfactory film, and I can't recommend
it. If Neveldine wanted to experiment with horror cinema, he should
have made Crank 3: Possessed; I'm sure that Chev Chelios wouldn't have
stayed in his bed contorting himself waiting for a demon to consume
him. In the Crank universe, Chelios possesses demons.
<|_=00=_|>
The film begins with a line from the scriptures about the coming of the
second Christ and how it will basically be a sheep in wolves clothing
which may be setting up the story about to follow but in reality it
pointed out how the pope, or other men of the cloth, could very well be
this Antichrist they are preaching about. Already I have my doubts
before the title, 'The Vatican Tapes' is even on the screen. Then it
appears.

The title made me cringe. So far it is telling me two things I don't
want to get into: the Catholic Church and found-footage-styled
filmmaking. It may be floating around as a new exorcism story but it
really isn't. It's more of the Antichrist coming to earth story, which
Gabrielle Burn kinda set the standard for in the 90's film 'End of
Days' and this film barely comes close to grazing his wickedness. But
this may very well be the story's entire twist? It does come off as a
realisation in the end but so underwhelming to the point where it does
not feel like a spoiler mentioning it to you.

Lets get to the first in-liners: horror fans. "Vatican Tapes" will not
bring anything new to the world of the devil and god, it will not try
new angles with which to scare you and it will not try surprise you,
other than turning 'The Exorcist' into 'End of Days', and still, who
cares?

Date moviegoers: there isn't one great scare that will get anyone in
your lap. It may very well just lull them off to sleep. So maybe keep
your shoulder up high?

The acting isn't horrendous but still not noteworthy enough to
recommend any particular performance. The special effects were never
weak that they ever pulled one out of the story but their lame factor
was well high.

There's screaming and explosions, an insane asylum (how fresh) and
panicked lovers/parents. Cliché galore. Then we have the obvious
insensitivity pointing to the underlying misogyny of the writer; of
course a whore will give birth to the Antichrist, why wouldn't it be?
Tired plot, boring characters, stale settings and a pace that will
stifle  what a yawn, perhaps if the pope were in fact the Antichrist
then 'Vatican Tapes' may have had my attention. But using a priest to
save the day would mean taking a time trip back to the 70's were a man
of the cloth still gave off the impression of a saviour and all round
good guy.
<|_=00=_|>
You immediately question the direction of the movie because of it's
focus on surveillance footage only to have no real purpose of the
footage. The camera work is terrible. The main character's hair, why is
it always side parted and perfect? The entire theater booed when it
ended. Too many plain plots. The music score is cheap. Too many scenes
of the Vatican for no reason. The use of an actor from 90210 only makes
movies less believable. The casting director should be fired and never
work in Hollywood. Props to the CGI people for doing what they could
with this baddie. They all need acting coaches. 

This movie probably was very fun and funny to film. 

I never write reviews. Wrote this one because I became so frustrating
with this movie. It has no integrity and no body. Very empty. Should
have gone straight to VHS, not even DVD or netflix.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know if there is a name for someone who really enjoys watching
exorcism movies, but I'm that person. I watch them all and I've never
regretted seeing any of them. I could probably write a script for one;
they really don't vary that much, but there is usually a little
something that makes each one stand apart.

The score of 7 that I'm giving this one is ranking it with all other
exorcism movies, and I've never seen one that I would rank below 4.
Actually, my score would be a 6 and 1/2 if I could give that.

(SPOILER ALERT) Let's look at some of the tried and true elements in
this one: The Vatican is concerned and sends a Cardinal to investigate;
a kindly local priest is present; a beautiful girl is possessed; an
evil bird or two makes its presence known; the possessed girl causes
one or more people to maim or kill; the unexpected happens during the
exorcism.

It's that last part about the actual exorcism that gets some high
points from me. When's the last time you saw the guy performing the
exorcism holding a knife to the girl's throat, pulling a chain around
her neck to kill her? This Cardinal could care less about the girl's
health because he realizes this is just not any demonic
possession--this girl is possessed by the Anti-Christ itself, and
that's something that shakes the Vatican to its core. Major demonic
activity during the exorcism--what's not to like? Contrary to some
other reviews, I liked the photography, I thought it very good. The
acting was also pretty good, and the possessed girl really did a fine
job of projecting a crazy demon persona. Michael Pena was good as the
kindly priest; he's really only an average actor, but you can't help
but like him in any part.

Djimon Hounsou plays only a small role back at the Vatican. It's a
shame he was not the one to travel to America to perform the exorcism.
The last scenes are of Michael Pena in the Vatican talking to Hounsou.
Looks like Pena has been recruited to be second in command of the huge
archival collection of "the Devil's work on earth." Just before they
get on the elevator, Hounsou turns and says to Pena: "Come and see."
Now that rang a familiar bell from Sunday School days. In the book of
Revelations one of the Four Beasts says in a voice of thunder: "Come
and See." Coincidence? I think not.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings from Lithuania.

"The Vatican Tapes" (2015) is a very enjoyable "possession / exorcism"
movie. While the plot is not really original, the ending kinda was
original, really original. It has not bad mood for this kind of horror
movie, and although it has clichés all around, the overall experience
was positive.

Michael Peña is totally miscast in this movie, he is one of the most
reliable "comic reliefs" in industry at the moment, so it is hard to
take him seriously in priest robe with serious face, there were some
scenes with him near the end when i just wanted to chuckle - not that
he is a bad actor, he is solid one, but at this moment in his carrier
this kind of movie is clearly not his strongest side. Djimon Hounsou is
also a bit miscast, although this 2 times Oscar nominee is much more
believable in this role. Others were OK, nothing special. Directing was
also OK, and i kinda liked cinematography and editing, they create this
feeling of uncertainty.

Overall, i kinda see why "The Vatican Tapes" has such a lot rating at
IMDb (4.5 at the moment) - lots of recent horror movies about
possession and exorcism are shoot in "found footage" style, but this
one plays straight and its overall look is inconsistent, there are many
close ups and shaky camera and some weird shoots, but as a whole i
liked this style and as i have mentioned it creates this tension and
feeling of uncertainty. Ending was also kinda original in my opinion.
While this flick isn't the most original or best in its genre, it was a
pretty descent one.
<|_=00=_|>
I feel like I should not take a jab about how cheap the movie feels,
but it feels cheap. 

This is ironic considering how amazing the special effects were in the
film. That's the thing about film making today. Any kid with a good lap
top can due really good special effects. 

It's too bad the same cannot be said of any kid with a camera. I'm glad
this was not a found footage movie, though some of the film is seen
though security cam footage and personal footage taken by head strikers
and an exorcist. It's a straight narrative, but treating it like a
found footage movie would have giving the filmmakers a better excuse.

I thought the acting talent in the movie was pretty good. They did the
best with a story that had too many badly played angles. The demon they
selected to exorcise was a little too bold and would have made them
horror legends if they pulled it off right, but that did not happen.

Overall, watching this girl's soul being taken over by evil was not
interesting at all. It was not creepy or scary. I just wanted it to be
over with.
