
I have never been happy to see a movie flop than I am at this one. This
movie is the hugest pile of garbage I ever witnessed -- and I sat
through Chernobyl Diaries. Don't waste your time watching this crap,
let alone your money.

I watched some of it online for the dancing but even that was trash.
The acting is poor. Chris Brown and everyone else try so hard to be the
"cool guy" or "sensitive jock" archetype, but, instead they look like a
bunch of amateurs that turned an already bad script into just another
teen drama bullshit story with 90s music, shaky cameras, and scenes
that have no substance but push the plot forward. Not to mention the
fact that dance movies weren't really ever good, but have been
increasingly bad starting from You Got Served. Don't bother with this
(not like I expect anyone to, anyway). Hopefully Chris brown will learn
from this and stick to was he's known for; making music and beating
women...better yet, hopefully he'll decide to leave fame all together.
1/10
<|_=00=_|>
OK Benson so being a former b-boy myself and a lover of film I decided
to check out your movie. I was a big fan of your documentary Planet B-
boy and I watched it in theaters and bought it on DVD. I showed it to
all my friends to introduce them to b-boying and I went into this movie
with high hopes. Sadly Benson you let me down. This movie fails not
because of the story, which is crap but its typical dance movie fare so
I do not blame you for that. No one goes to see kung fu movies for the
story they are there for the fighting and the same can be said for
dance movies. Sure there were a few things in the script that where a
bit insulting, you made all the b-boys act like children fighting over
girls and oohing and awing over a women choreographer. If these guys
were teenagers it would make sense, but they are grown men and I would
hope they wouldn't act like that in real life. However the real
failings lye with the dance scenes. I don't know what you did Benson
but I was in Montipellier for Battle of the year back in 2011 when you
guys filmed this movie and what I saw live was 50 times better than
what you put on screen. You needed to hire a new editor first of all.
Whenever you had dancing on screen you seemed more focused on showing
the crowd, the reactions of the b-boys and the other main characters
than on the dancing itself. It was so choppy and jumpy that by the time
it went back the dancing I got so disoriented I could not tell what was
going on (It amounted to dance shaky cam and as a movie fan you know
the world wide audience has lost interest in that even in action
movies). If you have been reading b-boy message boards you ought to
know that for years we have been complaining about live b- boy feeds of
events because they do the exact same thing as your movie does, not
focus on the dance. You did the same thing in planet b-boy but I simply
saw that as you having to cram in 5, 6 min performances and 2, 20 min
battles into an hour and half documentary. It seemed you were trying to
use the editing to move the audience instead of letting the dance do it
on its own. Also I did not understand why you felt it necessary to have
two hosts commentating over the last battles and basically telling us
"hey this is cool", did you feel the audience wouldn't understand that
an air flair looked cool? I know you probably needed to get a lot of
difference sponsors to get this movie made so I will not call you out
on the product placement because I understand. But having someone from
MTV tell the audience how they should be reacting is just plain dumb, I
didn't see any commentators in You Got Served, they just showed the
final dance. Speaking of the final dance that's where I gave up
completely on your movie. The battle I saw in France was amazing, it
was the first time I had seen a mock movie battle that felt like a real
battle. You also did the battle to Big Daddy Kane's  Wrath of Kane
which wasn't in the movie! If you couldn't get the rights to the song
fine, they why not get another song, heck you used The Roots  Boom in
one of the scenes why not save that for the final battle. Instead what
we got was some generic orchestral score and so you could not see the
b-boys actually dancing to song or hitting beats. We just got a generic
who can do the cooler moves which ended in a flipping
battle?.................Lame, for all the talk in the movie that this
is an art form and a dance the general audience comes out of the movie
going "I like the part when they did those back flips and when that
Korean guy put his leg behind his head" instead of saying "wow I really
liked it when rebel (casper) hit those beats" WHICH HE DID IN THE REAL
BATTLE. Maybe you do love b-boying Benson but your movie does not show
that. It shows a disinterred direction more focused telling the
audience that they should find this cool rather than just showing the
dance as is and having them either accepting it or not. I look forward
to your next movie, a time period highschool drama in Korea about kids
in the 80's might be more what you're suited for. I know I won't get
your frenetic editing for one thing at least. You have my money for
your next movie and you are a much more successful person than I will
ever be, but I simply could not sit here and not say anything about
your movie. Nothing but the best for your future, Luka (B-Boy
Architect)
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first review to IMDb, all the time I had thought that my
first one would be about whether an amazing movie or the worst. And
beyond any doubt, this is one of the worsts I've ever watched. I've
been waiting for a long time to watch this movie and still can't
believe it was such a terrible movie. I am as sick as a parrot. It was
waste of time, literally it was. I wanted to watch this movie
especially for Josh Holloway but even he has no special acting. There
is nothing special about this movie at all, may be except the results
of the competition but it was not enough. Acting was not good, dancing
was bad and the music was not good too. 

It was completely a disappointment for me. I gave 3 points, just
because I thought that at least I watched it from the beginning to the
end. I try not to see the glass as half empty. 

To sum up, if you really don't want to waste your time, don't watch
this movie guys.
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly don't understand all what movie people were watching that
gave this such low reviews. I saw the previews and said I wasn't even
going to bother watching. My daughter (9) however is really into
dancing and for movie night I picked this. The movie stars off poorly
with music that doesn't really fit, but about 25mins in I started to
enjoy it. Now that sounds worst than it really is because it's not that
nothing is happening for 25mins, but I just expected more battle scenes
in the beginning. Anyhow I don't want to spoil the movie. If you are a
fan of breaking in anyway you WILL enjoy this movie. If you're looking
for a cinematic experience well please go watch something that aims to
captivate you with the filming process. This is a B-Boy movie and
delivers moves that many people have never seen, and for that it at
least deserves credit for bringing something new to the dance movie
genre.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like dance movies, especially break dancing, you will love this
movie.

I know the critics gave it bad reviews, but it's still a lot of fun and
very entertaining (and inspiring if you are a dancer).

I thought the acting was pretty good overall, especially the coach and
assistant coach.

The dancers/actors did a phenomenal job and all the dance scenes were
incredible.

The last scenes during the BATTLE were fantastic. I really enjoyed
watching the U.S. battle South Korea. Excellent!
<|_=00=_|>
I have a belief that every movie should be watched at least once. After
seeing some reviews throughout multiple sites that this movie was not
that great, and just gave terrible reviews I went out and rented from
Redbox to see. I was at the edge of my seat, waiting to see what happen
next. Enjoyed the story, enjoyed the cast. It wasn't your typical dance
movie, "You got serve" or "Step up" it took what was there and expanded
with an additional idea, let's make a new Dream Crew with the best of
the best. This movie deserves to be watched and given the chance.

On a side not, some reviews complained about Chris Brown and his acting
in this movie, well he did that in this movie by acting. If his
personal character is to be attack, I believe that that is a different
review, the overall moral of a lot of people that get TV time should be
in check. I don't know Chris Brown personally but he is a persona, a
entertainer and everything that he is paid to do is that. 

Just give it a chance and make your own opinion

Thanks
<|_=00=_|>
The producer Dante Graham (Laz Alonso) promotes a group of b-boys
expecting to bring the Battle of the Year Trophy back to the USA that
have not won it in fifteen years. He hires his friend and former
basketball couch Jason Blake (Josh Holloway) that grieves the loss of
his wife and son to prepare his team. Blake fires the whole team since
they do not have motivation and decides to select a new group of
dancers under the nickname of Dream Team. He also hires the youngster
Franklyn (Josh Peck) and the choreographer of break-dance Stacy (Lotz
Caity) to help him. Along the months, Blake tries to implement teamwork
and works hard with the group. In the competition in France, he has a
great surprise. 

"Battle of the Year" is a disappointing and predictable collection of
clichés. It is amazing how many times this storyline has been used in
different environments and sports ("decadent couch hires a team of
losers that in the end surprises in a competition") with a corny
message in the end. Fans of break-dance and hip-hop may enjoy a little
more but this movie is terrible. My vote is three.

Title (Brazil): "A Batalha do Ano" ("Battle of the Year")
<|_=00=_|>
Here we have another dance movie. At first, it seems movies of such
genre have exhausted and that there is nothing else to tell about. You
expect the story will repeat: there is a huge and important dance event
with a fabulous sum of money as a main prize and that can change
dancers' life for ever, on the one hand, and there is a dance crew
desiring to win this event, on the other hand. Yes, the story is like
this, but this time the director have added some moral notions that
made this movie acquire some deeper sense and look more interesting and
intriguing. Battle of the year is an international b-boying competition
where dance crews from all over the world try to get to and get the
first place. The point is that for the last 15 years America, homeland
of break dance, has not taken any first place. One of the former b-boy
dancers (Dante Graham played by Laz Alonso) decides to change this
situation. He finds a couch (Couch Blake performed by Josh Holloway)
and together they create Dream Team. Couch's main goal is not only to
train the guys to win the competition, but his first and principal idea
is to make them a team, some kind of dance family where everybody
supports each other and ready stand for everyone who is in this crew.
Another subtext of this film is "change how you think, change your
life". The read line of Battle of the year is that your reality is in
your head: you get everything you think about. And the same is about
success. If you think about it and act like a successful person, you
definitely will get this. And you decide what you put into your head.
The movie shows us how their couch tries to change not only his
reality, but the guys' one too and how he changes their idea about
friendship and other values. At the same time, Blake trains them to be
excellent dancers, he doesn't forget about the main purpose why he was
hired to train this team. Of course, there are great dance moments, the
competition itself is just insane. And it is interesting to see the
scale of similar events and different dance techniques. So, if you are
a big fan of dancing or dance movies or if you just want to see Chris
Brown, his acting, go and watch this movie. By the way, the end is
pretty unexpected. I guess very soon we will see the second part of
this film.
<|_=00=_|>
There are three key factors to every dance movie: the dancers, the
choreography, and the music. They don't all have to be fantastic to
make a great movie. If two of them are exception the third isn't as
important. In this movie the dancers seemed like they had potential,
but didn't show any results. The choreography seemed good at first, but
ended up being more of a flop. So, the last hope was the music. Yeah,
it failed. Overall this movie had great potential to be great, but it
was SO focused on the STORY and NOT the DANCING that it basically
ruined the whole experience. 

I have some suggestions for the future. DON'T throw out your ace
without a really good follow up. Not only did you lose your ace, but
you lost the game. Seriously? Did you think that would excite people?
It was like watching failure over and over again. Its simple people
enjoy hope. You just crushed it like in so many ways in this film I
lost count and didn't even give a glimmer of it till like the very end
and by then it was so dead there was no resurrecting it. Don't focus on
the story. This is a DANCE movie. Put in some really nice dance scenes.
Not just these super-fast back and forth snippets of WHAT? Also, the
music. It's supposed to drive the scene. Not be background noise. DRIVE
a scene. Music has the power to move people's hearts. Use it to your
advantage. Especially in all out dance scenes. You waiting WAY too long
to switch songs and mix it up. The worst I have to say was that
orchestrated song. Not because of the genre, but because you didn't
fully put it to use. You really didn't draw it out then rev it up like
BAM in your face. It was more like oh, elevator music. Oh the elevator
music got a little louder how nice. I hope if you do work on another
dance movie it'll go a little more smoothly than this one. Good luck.
<|_=00=_|>
I love dance movies because I like watching the choreography and
talented dancers, but I never expect good acting or a well crafted
storyline. But this movie is one of the few within the genre that gives
you those as well: not only it showcases incredible dancers, amazing
choreography, but it is also a good story about hard work, discipline,
friendship, and team work. The acting is surprisingly good for this
kind of movies and the story is entertaining and has an unexpected end.
Although the screenplay follows a bit of the formula you would expect
for a dance competition movie, it doesn't fall into every single
expected cliché. For instance, there is no cheesy love story among
dancers! If you like the genre, this movie is a must.
