
The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo has a rather large fan following and
for good reason. The 2009 Swedish film is incredibly solid and
well-acted with just the right amount of wrong. The two sequels that
followed had their own uphill battles (switching directors, lower
budget, etc) and weren't necessarily bad, but just failed to capture
that raw emotional tenacity the original film offered. When news of a
remake began making the usual rounds, there was a fairly large uproar
amongst the internet community (isn't there always?), especially when
it was announced Noomi Rapace wouldn't be returning as Lisbeth
Salander. Most American remakes aren't directed by David Fincher though
and while it isn't vastly different in comparison to its Swedish
counterpart, Fincher has at least improved upon what was already a
fantastic piece of cinema.

The opening of the film was a bit unexpected. "The Immigrant Song"
cover by Trent Reznor and Karen O plays over these really fluid visuals
that are a bit hard to describe. Imagine the T-1000 from Terminator 2
made of motor oil or tar instead of metal and you have a pretty good
idea of what to expect. It was just very different from other film
credits from the rest of the year while also being very sleek, very
stylish, and very David Fincher.

The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo is extremely dialogue driven, so be
prepared for a lot of talking. It feels very similar to Zodiac in that
sense yet more captivating. Even though I had seen the original film
and knew most of the major plot points, I still found myself getting
sucked into the story. Even if you hate this version of the film and
your loyalty remains firmly with the Swedish film, you can probably at
least agree that Fincher's version is visually the better of the two.
The cinematography is just brilliant. You've gotten teases in the
trailers, but the coldest winter in 20 years for Sweden looks so bloody
fantastic on screen; the amazing scenery, those long drives through the
snow, feeling like you're on the back of Lisbeth's motorcycle as she
roars through a tunnel, and the inner shot of a plastic bag among many
other things. The film is just a joy to look at from beginning to end.

The score is also just as brilliant as the one for The Social Network,
if not slightly better. Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross seem to explore
territory they didn't get to explore on The Social Network score. This
one seems to feature more out of tune instruments, which is an
interesting touch. The score hints at rising tension throughout the
film always making you feel like there's always something else to the
story lurking around the corner waiting for the right moment to strike.
It's haunting, unnerving, and just spectacular overall.

Noomi Rapace was an exceptional Lisbeth Salander and with that said so
is Rooney Mara. Just the amount of devotion she put into the role with
the piercings being genuine, bleaching her eyebrows, cutting her hair,
learning how to ride a motorcycle, using a very convincing Swedish
accent, coming off as being just as messed up as her appearance lets
on, and being completely nude is an incredible accomplishment. It's not
out of the question to believe that a role this physical could get her
nominated for best actress at the Academy Awards. The entire cast just
seems like they fit their roles a bit better than they did in the
Swedish film. This is one of the only performances of Daniel Craig's I
can actually say I enjoyed while Stellan Skarsgård is just wonderfully
demented. Then there's Yorick van Wageningen that's just downright
despicable as Nils Bjurman. It doesn't seem like it's something as
simple as "oh, you're showing favoritism towards a remake because it's
in English now." That isn't the case at all. Fincher's attention to
detail to the source material is practically Kubrick-like. It shows in
every frame of the film.

Fincher's version also seems to feature a lot more of Mikael Blomkvist
and Lisbeth Salander being together. They have more sex and they're
featured together more on-screen in comparison to the Swedish version.
It was a nice addition that made the slightly altered ending a lot more
impactful. The whistling doors in Martin's house were also amazing. I
can't recall if that was in the Swedish version or not, but it brought
a smile to my face with how something so small meant so much.

The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo is obviously not going to be for
everybody. It relies on extremely long discussions to drive most of the
two and a half hour duration of the film. In between though, it becomes
difficult to watch mostly with how Nils Bjurman handles giving Lisbeth
more money and her response. Lisbeth's response will more than likely
have you tiptoeing out of the theater as delicately as possible since
you'll still be feeling it. With a phenomenal cast, incredibly rich
cinematography, a brilliant score, and Rooney Mara's best performance
to date, The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo is not only an improvement
over the original but easily one of the best films of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
After the announcement that The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo was getting
an English-language film treatment, I decided that the hype had built
up to a point where I just had to read the source material for myself.
Though it is not without flaws, Dragon Tattoo is an excellent story
with the important mission of raising awareness concerning violence
against women. Mere days after finishing the book I watched the Swedish
film. The hype train had me excited for an outstanding thriller. 

The hype train let me down.

I was left cold and somewhat irritated by the Swedish adaptation. A ton
of important plot elements were left out, some were inexplicably added
(Blomkvist's memories of the island became far too important and
contrived), and Rapace felt all wrong as Lisbeth. She was brilliant and
violent, but lacked the quiet pensiveness of the original character.
She did not come off as autistic and emotionally disturbed, just bratty
and rude. Worst of all, I was constantly confused by the extremely
rushed, strange new take on the story. 

As a lover of foreign films, I normally grind my teeth when I hear that
America is developing a remake. However, I found myself desperate for
this one. I needed a movie that actually gave me the experience of
reading the book for the first time, that made me care for Lisbeth and
that truly disturbed me. Thankfully, the American adaptation (not a
remake) delivered exactly what I was looking for. Those who say this
version is unnecessary or a rehash must have seen a very different
Swedish Girl with the Dragon Tattoo than I saw. The American take is
jam-packed with scenes that were either skimmed or completely left out
of the Swedish version. Yet, despite being more robust, the English-
language Dragon Tattoo is incredibly paced, feeling less rushed yet
hitting all the important plot points. The characters have time to
develop and grow on you, the clue-finding makes more sense, and the
killer is more horrifying. Screenwriter Zaillian knows exactly what to
leave out and what to change (though the ending, which mirrors the
book's ending, could have been arranged better). Craig, Mara, and even
Plummer are spot-on in their roles and feel more fleshed-out as
characters. Mara, in particular, inhabits Larsson's Lisbeth in a way
Rapace did not. She captures Lisbeth's silent, borderline-autistic
nature perfectly. Her fragile body and alien appearance even match the
book's description. She allows herself to be vulnerable, but clearly
regrets it over time. It's a captivating performance.

If someone were to ask me, personally, which version to see, I would
have to say without hesitation that this is the rare occasion where the
American adaptation is superior. I did not think it was possible to
stay so true to the story under three hours.
<|_=00=_|>
Chilling, haunting and relentlessly thrilling, director David Fincher
has created the definitive film adaptation of Larssons best seller
whilst at the same time improving on the source material. A brilliant
performance from Rooney Mara only elevates the film to greater heights 

The Review:

Ill cut to the chase: this is everything fans of the books could have
hoped for, its miles better than the already good Swedish film, its
more faithful to the novel, in some places it actually improves on the
source material.

With "The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo" David Fincher has put his
trademark darkness to fantastic use. Whether its sweeping shots of
freezing, snow covered Sweden or wonderfully eerie interiors Fincher
creates an unsettling atmosphere that is unrelenting and technically
perfect. With Fincher i've learnt to expect a beautifully shot film and
this is no exception, within this film are some of his greatest images.
Regarding the disturbing nature of some scenes, Fincher is wise enough
to show them in all their horror but doesn't stop to linger or exploit.

The performances are perfect all round, Its clear Fincher and the
casting production went to great lengths to pick not only great actors
but those who embody the very essence of their characters. Of note in
the supporting characters are Yorick van Wageningen who plays the
sadistic Bjurman with unsettling believability and the always great
Christopher plummer who is note-perfect as the desperate, loney
grandfather Henrik .- As one part of our central duo Daniel Craig puts
in his finest performance, normally cast as the tough hero Craig is
more subdued here, he has Blomkvist easy charm down to a T but also
captures the weak, submissive aspect of his character. - Lisbeth
Salander is a character unlike anything fiction has ever
seen.broken,pierced, clade in leather with short black hair and a body
so slight the wind could break her, she is horribly victimised but
refuses to be one. To sum it up she is one of the most interesting and
difficult characters an actress could ever play. I could honestly write
a whole review on the brilliance of Rooney Mara's performance, she is
the very essence of Lisbethas if the character just walked off the
page. Mara commands every scene with a mixture of silent burning rage
and a deep rooted venerability. Her eyes are the heart of the film, her
reactions are the reason myself and the others around me laughed,
gasped and even cried. The character requires an actress who can
internalize her emotions yet at the same time convay a wide range of
feelings. Mara does this such perfect skill, every glance is charged
with deep feeling as if you're looking directly into her soul. A brave
performance, Mara bares all in the nude scenes and goes to frankly
horribly dark places in the now informous scenes of sexual violence.
Watching Rooney Mara is witnessing the birth of a star, this is the
best performance of the year and if the Oscars fail to reconzie her i
will lose all hope in their judgment. 

The score by Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross is perfect, eerie and
unsettling. It is as good as their Oscar winning score last year if not
better, its more understated and does what every score should
do....improves the scenes not overpower them.

This is by and large a perfect adaptation, my main issue lay with one
singe sequence. There is a shot that seems to be there solely for the
purpose of showing off, it serves no real purpose within the story. 

The most touching scenes of the film come from the characters
themselves, this is a character driven story and none are more powerful
than Lisbeth and Mikeal themselves. Fincher makes their relationship
the focus and it pays off, they are the heart of the books and Fincher
rightfully recognises this. 

Proving that sometimes "american" adaptations can actually be for the
better this is a film nobody should miss...its everything the novel is,
plus some. More than anything i was impressed by the humour that is
added through-out, this film will make you laugh, it will break your
heart and it will make you want to take a shower.
<|_=00=_|>
The lights dim, the movie begins with a brief prologue, and the zany
and incredibly weird opening credits begin, set to a creepy cover of
Led Zeppelin's "Immigrant Song." From the beginning, we are in for a
wild ride as Stieg Larsson's incredibly popular novel "The Girl with
the Dragon Tattoo" is brought to life on screen.

Scorned journalist Mikael Blomkvist is called upon by Henrik Vanger, a
very wealthy man, while writing a book. Vanger is in search of an
answer to the disappearance of his niece, Harriet, which occurred over
40 years ago. He assumes that Harriet is dead, and that she was
murdered. He looks to Mikael to investigate her disappearance and who
killed her. Then Mikael gets assistance from Lisbeth Salander, a
dangerous but intelligent 24 year-old punk who is an accomplished
computer hacker and a great contribution to the solving of other
crimes. Together, Mikael and Lisbeth go on a dark, eerie journey into a
world of crime, Nazism, and corruption that will lead them to Harriet's
assassin.

I walked into "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo" with almost no
knowledge of Larsson's novel or the Swedish film made a few years
before David Fincher's version. The end result is ultimately an
extremely satisfying, brutal, and complex thriller thanks to great
direction by Fincher (known greatly for his work on "Seven," "The
Game," and "The Social Network"), excellent writing, and an impeccably
chosen cast.

After only a few years, the character of Lisbeth Salander has become an
attention-grabbing heroine that is as iconic as Edward Cullen of the
love-it-or-hate-it "Twilight" series. And we can understand why. After
all the truly awful and hideous things that have plagued her life,
Lisbeth doesn't take any crap from anybody. She may be angry, violent,
overtly sexual, demanding, and perhaps a little crazy, but she is a
genius at what she does, and has reasons for all of her actions, no
matter how gruesome they may be.

The mystery surrounding the film is sophisticated and white-knuckling,
adding to the intensity and mood of the story and its characters. We're
not sure of who is Harriet's killer, or if Harriet is even dead, until
the last half hour of the film, and when we do find out the twist, it
leaves a stupendous impact.

After cementing his reputation in brutal crime thrillers, and
surprising us with "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button" and "The
Social Network," David Fincher was the right man for the director's
chair. Every film he makes, even a drama like "The Social Network,"
sets up a tone of genuine suspense, tension, and fear for the
characters. "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo" isn't any different as
Fincher adds his signature touch to the movie.

Of all of the people they could have chosen to play these roles, the
casting director landed in a pot of gold. Daniel Craig does a wonderful
job as Mikael, showing us that he can play characters other than James
Bond. With the amount of screen time she has, Robin Wright is also very
good as Blomkvist's business partner Erika Berger. Christopher Plummer
and Stellan Skarsgård also turn in great performances as Henrik Vanger
and Martin Vanger.

The person to really watch out for, however, is Rooney Mara as Lisbeth
Salander. Getting her big break in the underrated remake of "A
Nightmare on Elm Street" and later starring in Fincher's previous film
"The Social Network" (giving a dynamite performance in the opening
scene), Mara has sealed her future with many more promising and
exciting roles because of her portrayal of Lisbeth. This is not an easy
role to play, knowing that Mara is the second person to play the
character. She must endure two shocking rape scenes and a torture
sequence, and there is a hefty amount of nudity involved. Mara embodies
Lisbeth, immediately bringing immense intimidation, danger, and fury
every time she comes on to the screen. Her eyes are wide and
emotionless, almost as if you can see right through her. And with
everything that has happened to the character, we understand that
Lisbeth has a right to be that way. She may be smart, but she is not
interested in attraction or friendships with another human being.
Overall, Mara gives a sensational, fearless, dedicated, and
electrifying performance that guarantees an Oscar nod.

Being released during the cheery time of the holidays, "The Girl with
the Dragon Tattoo" is not a feel-good film, by any means. It is a
harsh, gritty, and rough cinema trip that answers the question of
leaving the kids at home with the babysitter. Also, if you're
squeamish, you will not like it. However, those who have read the book,
and those who have not read it, should check it out. Even without
having read Larsson's novel, I left the theater completely satisfied.
It is a movie experience that you don't commonly get. Fincher has done
it again. "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo" is a must!
<|_=00=_|>
Here is a rundown of the differences in the two movies:

-MIKAEL BLOMKVIST-

American - Blomkvist is played as more of a tough guy and not a good
guy. His flaws are laid bare and he shows himself to be much more
detached than emotional.

Swedish - This is the "good guy" side of Mikael. He is sensitive,
caring, and smart. He shows a protective side when it comes to Lisbeth.
Physically speaking the Swedish Blomkvist doesn't look as sturdy as his
American counterpart. He has a gut and appears to be quite a bit older
than Lisbeth which can make the relationship between them more shudder
inducing and probably accounts for why there are fewer sex scenes
between them in the Swedish version. 

-LISBETH SALANDER-

American - Perhaps because Blomkvist was made into such a strong
character Lisbeth was then morphed into a more withdrawn and vulnerable
girl so as to complement the new Blomkvist. She still has attitude,
aggression, and rage but she also exhibits a quiet shy side that was
not in the original as well as more of a romantic side.

Swedish - In this version Lisbeth is not shy, not gentle, and not nice.
She doesn't chase Blomkvist - he chases her. She perfectly embodies
everything you think of when you think of a strong female lead and has
an unpredictability and edge to her that is exciting to watch. Her
dragon tattoo is much, much better.

-OVERALL- 

I liked the American Mikael and the Swedish Lisbeth. 

While I may prefer a scene or two from the Swedish version, such as the
ending, overall I enjoyed the American version more. 

On the flip side, I can understand why some may hate this version
because Lisbeth was their favorite character and she's been changed
into something they don't like. For me, the modifications to Lisbeth's
character weren't severe enough to put me off.

The Swedish version captured a cult following for a reason and I would
recommend both to anyone who has an interest in darker gritty movies
that have a raw intensity to them. The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo
isn't for the faint of heart and that's what I love about it!
<|_=00=_|>
I checked the spoiler box, but I find it hard to believe that anyone
interested in this movie has not read the book, or seen the Swedish
version. And, frankly I can't understand the glowing reviews from
critics and praise for Rooney Mara's performance. Did they read the
book, or see the Swedish version? First the good. I did like the ending
better than the Swedish version. It was closer to the book, and
necessary to set up Lisbeth's antagonism toward Bloomkvist in the
second book. But I wonder if they were even thinking about a possible
second film, because they dragged at least 2 key scenes from the second
book into this film, one being Lisbeth's confrontation of Bjurman about
the possible tattoo removal.

Now for the bad. As created by Larsson in the book, and as portrayed by
Noomi Rapace in the Swedish version, Lisbeth was an angry, fearless
outsider, determined to live life on her terms. As portrayed by Mara,
Lisbeth is a waif, unable to cope with life, making her outbursts of
violence both puzzling and unexpected. In the book, it is clear that
Lisbeth was the stronger character, but that's not the way Mara
portrays her. That is the crux of the problem with this movie, and
probably the reason for the glowing reviews. A waif-like Lisbeth is
much less threatening to the male reviewers, than a strong fearless
one.In the book, Lisbeth took charge in tough situations, she certainly
didn't need to ask permission from Bloomkvist. The portrayal of
Lisbeth, as directed by Fincher, and as portrayed by Mara, is a huge
disappointment, and not true to the character in the book at all.

There were other missteps in this version as well. Daniel Craig seemed
removed and dis-interested. He seemed to be walking through the
performance giving little emotion. Maybe Craig just can't play a role
that makes him subordinate to a woman, or maybe Fincher can't conceive
of a film like that. In the Swedish version, Bjurman was a frightening
character who exuded an aura of threat. In contrast, the character of
Bjurman in Fincher's movie seemed more of an overgrown adolescent, who
relished his position of authority.

Both versions played freely with the time-line of the book, and by
dropping or including different subplots. But, the dropping of the
"Kalle Bloomkvist" nickname that was so prominent in the books is
curious. Again, Lisbeth used it as an ironic nickname to express her
disdain for Bloomkvist, something that the waif Lisbeth couldn't do.
Granted it didn't play as big of a role in the first book, but if you
were thinking of a trilogy it was needed to set up the later films. I
also didn't understand the inclusion of a daughter for Bloomkvist. It
served no purpose, and was not in the book.

Overall, if you are a fan of the book, and liked the way Lisbeth was
imagined by Larsson, you will be disappointed by the movie. If you feel
threatened by a strong independent woman, then you will appreciate the
way Fincher has castrated his version of Lisbeth. This was not as good
as the Swedish version, which presented a film much closer in tone to
the book.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. The character of Lisbeth Salander
absolutely fascinates me. That's true whether we are discussing Stieg
Larsson's Millennium trilogy novels, the Swedish film versions, or this
latest film version from director David Fincher and a screenplay from
Steve Zaillian. It's also true whether Lisbeth is played on screen by
Noomi Rapace (Swedish films) or Rooney Mara. She is a brilliant
character hiding in plain sight from a world that has fiercely
mistreated her, and now misjudges and underestimates her. She is the
oddest heroine I can recall ... and I can't get enough of her.

Let's start with the source material. Stieg Larsson's books are far
from perfect, but addictive just the same. The first book (on which
this film is based) is, at its core, a simple who-dunnit presented in a
manner that is claustrophobic, paranoid and eerie. Moving on to this
particular film, we find the director and screenplay holding the basic
tone while making a few changes ... some minor, others more
substantial. These changes may irk those fans who are a bit more loyal
to the books, but Fincher surely wanted to offer more than a simple
re-telling of the story.

Daniel Craig plays Mikael Blomkvist, the journalist hired to solve the
40 year old mystery of the disappearance/murder of Harriet Vanger,
niece to Swedish millionaire Henrik Vanger (Christopher Plummer). To
research, Blomkvist must dig into the Vanger's rotten family tree of
Nazis, anti-Semites, sexual predators, anti-social fanatics, and a few
just plain loony birds. You can imagine how excited this rich and once
powerful family is to have someone uncovering long buried secrets.
Circumstances allow for Lisbeth to assist Blomkvist in researching
this.

Unlike many mysteries where assembling the clues is the most fun, the
real heart of this story is the odd, somewhat uncomfortable developing
relationship between Blomkvist and Lisbeth. This latest version allows
this to develop relatively smoothly, but it nonetheless rattles our
senses. We see the subtle changes in Lisbeth as she slowly opens up to
the idea of a real friendship based on trust. Fear not mystery fans,
the Vanger clan still provides more than enough juice to keep any film
sleuth happy.

It's truly impossible to avoid comparisons between the two movie
versions and the respective casts. It's quite obvious Mr. Fincher was
working with a substantially greater budget than Niels Arden Opler had
for the first Swedish film. While they are both enthralling, I actually
lean a bit towards the rawer original. That takes nothing away from
this latest version. Same with Noomi Rapace vs. Rooney Mara. Ms. Mara
is excellent in her performance and I was fully satisfied, but Ms.
Rapace brought a rougher edge to the role ... one that made it even
tougher to crack that shell. The biggest difference in the casts is
Daniel Craig against Michael Nyqvist. Mr. Craig is just a bit too cool
for the role, while Nyqvist captured the insecurity and vulnerability
that Larsson wrote about.

All of that is nit-picking. Both film versions are sterling
entertainment and hopefully the Fincher version will bring the story to
a much wider audience. I would encourage those that are interested to
check out the Swedish version, as well as the Larsson books. Maybe that
will explain my fascination with this creature known as Lisbeth
Salander.
<|_=00=_|>
The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo is pretty popular at our house. The
trilogy has been read and all the three Scandinavian film versions have
been watched. So it was with both anticipation and dread we watched the
Hollywood version at the local cineplex yesterday. We walked away
feeling puzzled as to why $100 million had been spent to make a movie
that had already been brilliantly made only two years earlier. So
tonight, we watched the Swedish version again for comparison which only
re-enforced our opinions.

The biggest problem with the new version is that it doesn't make a
whole lot of sense. It was filmed in Sweden. Larsson was Swedish. Etc.
Yet the Swedish elements that give the story coherence have gone AWOL
in the latest incarnation. I guess this is not especially surprising
considering that director Fincher wondered in a Swedish interview after
filming in the north how anyone could live in such a climate. If
someone is actually confused about THAT, not much else about Swedish
society is going to make much senseespecially the complexities that
allow that society to not merely survive but prosper.

The biggest problem centers around the casting of Daniel Craig as
journalist Mikael Blomqvist. Blomqvist is supposed to be a Swedish
idealist working for a lefty Stockholm rag. In the Swedish version of
the film, all the nuances of such a person fill every scene so well it
sometimes provokes a laughter of recognition. Craig, on the other hand,
seems utterly clueless about how to play such a character. The man
makes a great James Bonda Swedish intellectual, not so much.

Because Craig doesn't get his character right, the whole relationship
between Blomqvist and Lisbeth Salander never develops properly. This is
a women who has a bunch of issues with men yet grows to trust and
eventually love him. But instead of character development, we are left
with the unspoken assumption of "what woman wouldn't have the hots for
Daniel Craig?" While this is what makes Bond movies work, it is
bizarrely out of place for this plot.

And then there are the missing details that were included in the
Scandinavian version. The nature of the Vanger family Fascism. The
hints at why Salander is so screwed up. The role of computers in their
search for the bad guy and a believable explanation for how things got
done. The details of how people actually DO cope with the coldold
Henrik Vanger knows how and when to wear an expensive parka in the
Swedish version.

Of course, what is really missing from the Hollywood version is the
politics of modern Sweden. Most people think of Sweden, if at all, as
this lefty, sex-crazed, micro-society that was defined forever by the
Social Democrats. What this picture misses is the role of the Swedish
right wing. This may be the country of Gunnar Myrdal and Dag
Hammarskjold, but it is also a country of wealthy industrialists with
global connections and ambitions. The trilogy goes into extensive
detail about this reality and this whole movie is about an
industrialist with a bunch of Fascist siblings. Yet except for a few
lines, this social tension barely makes an appearance in Fincher's
telling. For example, in the Swedish version, we learn that one of the
Vangers was killed fighting as a volunteer in Finland's Winter War with
USSR. This detail explains volumes but it is missing in the Hollywood
remake.

Fincher makes a good movie but he cannot get over the contradictions of
making a movie set in Sweden that has been stripped of all Swedishness.
What remains is an adolescent action movie with a real James Bond in
the lead role. So a $100 million was spent to make a new movie with
roughly 15% of the intellectual content of a brilliantly made movie
that is only two years old. I suppose it makes sense. If you are making
a movie targeted at an audience that is too damn lazy to read
subtitles, I suppose it is a good move to eliminate much of the
intellectual content of the books and the original movie.

Who knowsmaybe this thing will make money. My guess is that in most
marketsespecially those where both versions must use subtitles
anywaythe Swedish version will be far more popular because there is so
much more movie. It has more details and that makes it more believable.
In the end, that should count for something.
<|_=00=_|>
David Fincher's remake of TGWTDT has enough to keep the film steady on
its feet, but lacks a horde of specific qualities from Oplev's
excellent effort. 

Firstly, in a basic mystery story, there is a need to present a series
of twists and discoveries that lead to solving the mystery. Fincher's
film fails to present this trail of bread crumbs in the same enticing
way that Oplev's did. Instead, we get a fast forward hyperspace logic
jump when Blomkvist's daughter (out of nowhere) points out the vital
clue that breaks the case, and then all related info is collected by
Lisbeth in 5 minutes. 

Secondly, the following characters were shadows of themselves in the
Fincher version: 1. Lisbeth Salander 2. Henrik Vanger 3. Martin Vanger
4. Bjurman The actors weren't horrible, but they were not as good as
the ones in the Swedish version. 

Lastly, there were key omissions and changes which, for me, were
completely inexplicable and confusing. 1. Lisbeth's past, father, etc.
was one or two lines of dialog. 2. Harriet Vanger in London? 3. Vanger
does not tell Blomkvist that he knew Harriet.

It all adds up to a disappointing attempt to recreate the dark energy
of Oplev's film. And the opening sequence was like a Tool video mixed
with bad James Bond.
