
I must admit, going into this film, I was rather excited; I've enjoyed
both of David Cronenberg and Viggo Mortensen's previous collaborations
and my interest in both Freudian psychology/psychoanalysis and Michael
Fassbender practically guaranteed that I would be seeing this film. I
fear now, however, that my expectations may have been a bit too high. 

I must admit, however, that I thought that Michael Fassbender and Viggo
Mortensen played their roles very well, although Mortensen definitely
didn't receive as much screen time as he deserved. Vincent Cassel
definitely shone in his extended cameo as Otto Gross. I did have some
issues with Keira Knightly's acting, however. I feel like she may have
over exaggerated her actions, particularly in the beginning scenes
where she is in the midst of hysteria.

However, my real problem with this film is that, for lack of a better
term, it all seems a little too shallow. Events that should be
important are skimmed over and not explained; to be honest, it doesn't
particularly seem like anything of real importance happens in the film.
The characters have little depth; despite the fact that they are all
playing rather well known persons, there simply isn't anything to them
other than a name. On top of this, despite what the taglines of the
film and trailer seem to suggest, the relationship between Freud and
Jung is hardly explored. For the most part, their scenes involve
reading letters from the other. This is hardly compelling viewing. 

Overall, I feel like this film would have been better if it had been
longer. If the film had a running time of even two hours, compared to
one and a half, more character development could have been inserted,
particularly for Freud. In addition, more focus on Jung's relationship
with Freud, rather than his relationship with Spielrein, would have
been nice to see. 

Here's hoping that any future collaborations between Cronenberg and
Mortensen pack a bit more of a punch.
<|_=00=_|>
What was the source of conflict which caused a gulf to form between
Sigmund Freud and Carl Jung? When we examine their personal and
professional lives, what turning points shaped their theories? What
were the storms which blew through the lives of Jung and Sabina
Spielrein? These are some of the questions this film attempts to
highlight, and in fact begins to touch upon. 

Some of the most scintillating moments of "A Dangerous Method" are
sexually bracing. But the audience is left feeling a bit orphaned. Do
these carnal scenes truly address the significant thematic questions? 

Here's my main beef with this film: I wanted to see more time spent on
the rigorous conflict between Freud and Jung. I have a sincere interest
in the life of Carl Jung, but in the end, I was not sufficiently
satisfied. Having said that, the production design, scenery, and
costuming were absolutely wonderful.

The somber, instinctual undercurrents of "A Dangerous Method" can be a
bit hypnotic. But because the script suffers, I cannot fully come under
its spell. As the rolling credits came up, I personally felt a bit
deflated, as if a sweet was torn from my curious grasp. Although I
think most films would do well with a tighter edit, this movie could
have used an additional 30 minutes of character and plot development.

I appreciated the qualities which Fassbender brought to Carl Jung.
Vincent Cassel was right on the mark as the impulsive Otto Gross.
Jung's insecure wife Emma was tenderly portrayed by Sarah Gadon. 

Although Keira Knightley tried her best to portray Sabina Spielrein,
there were certain scenes where her delivery seemed pushed. I have long
respected Viggo Mortensen, but I was not fully convinced by his
affected portrayal of Freud. 

So, who would I cast as Sabina? Emily Mortimer, Helena Bonham Carter,
or Rachel Weisz come to mind. And how about the part of Freud? Ben
Kingsley, Dustin Hoffman, or Geoffrey Rush could have added a riveting
twist to this role. 

Is there a doctor in the house? I will leave that for you to decide.
<|_=00=_|>
I really expected more by this movie, I expected more pathos, but
unfortunately it proved scarcely involving and too rational. Nothing to
say against the perfect technical execution, and the good acting, but
what is disappointing is the screenplay, which should have been, in my
opinion, the most significant element of the picture. Dialogues are
flat, too rationally aimed at conveying an encyclopedic definition of
psychoanalysis, but incapable of conveying empathy towards any of the
three main characters, Jung, Freud and Sabine Spielrein. In the end we
do not get the depth of each character, and the subtlety of their
relationship. Keira Knightely 's character is overacted, excessive,but
in the end underdeveloped, just the prototype of a pathologically
insane. Freud appears a weird old man, only caring for what the
scientific community might think, but not as daring as we think he
might have been, Jung is a pathetic unfaithful man, but with an inner
fragility we cannot perceive fully. And the complexity of the relation
analyst-patient as well as master-disciple never comes out. It's a
movie that seems to promise plenty, seems to be always on the verge of
revealing something, but never takes off, as if the director wanted to
keep a distance from the handled subject, as if afraid of being swept
away by the abyss of the human complex mind. Or maybe because the
complexity is too great to be thoroughly revealed? maybe, but being
this the reason, the result remains unconvincing.
<|_=00=_|>
I've only read very few of Jung's and Freud's abstracts of work but
i've always been interested in knowing a bit more. A Dangerous Method
cleared some of my questions and was pleasant for me to watch and learn
a thing or two about their contributions and contradictions in
psycho-analysis.

What is emphasized in this film is their well known "disagreement" on
sexual activity (libido) and apparently religion. Something that's been
brought here by a female patient of Jung, Sabina Spielrein -played by
Keira Knightley, who's been diagnosed with hysteria and was admitted to
Burghölzli Clinic in Zürich in 1906. Michael Fassbender (Jung) and
Viggo Mortensen (Freud) both performed seriously and insightful and
Knightley captured pretty well the behavior of a hysteric person and
then, her transition through therapy.

The German locations where the filming took place were picturesque and
the atmosphere was warm, theatrical, peaceful enough but rather slow at
some points. The intense relationship between the Austrian neurologist
and the Swiss psychiatrist was very interesting to watch nevertheless.

The reason i enjoyed this film is simple: It was exactly what i was
expecting it to be. Educational. And the fact that a talented cast did
their best to bring out on the screen such facts, has left me a
satisfied watcher full of interest and food for thoughts.
<|_=00=_|>
As a long admirer of David Cronenberg, I eagerly await each of his new
films as if I am a young child on Christmas Eve. When announced that
his new film, A Dangerous Method, had him working with Michael
Fassbender and (for a third time) Viggo Mortensen, two of my favorite
actors, as well as Keira Knightley and Vincent Cassel, I thought I must
have been dreaming. Adding on that the film was going to be an
exploration into the relationship between Carl Jung (portrayed by
Fassbender) and Sigmund Freud (Mortensen), the gods of psychoanalysis,
and this had the makings for Cronenberg's masterpiece. So one can only
begin to imagine my dismay when, after a promising first act, A
Dangerous Method turned out to be the most inordinately tame and
pedestrian Cronenberg film in over thirty years.

David Cronenberg made a name for himself in the film community thanks
to his studies into dark, controversial topics of sexual obsessions and
fetishes, so a story depicting the works of Jung and Freud seemed like
a perfect fit for him, and I was hardly able to process how lazily he
approached the minds of these men. The first act felt like punch after
punch (in a good way), with very stern, rapid dialogues detailing the
sexual desires of Sabina Spielrein (Knightley), a new patient of
Jung's. Despite Knightley's hilariously hammy performance, which had me
close to fits of laughter every time she unhinged her jaw or thrashed
about the room hysterically, each scene sizzled with sexual tension and
was nailed with precision by Fassbender's stoic portrayal.

Anyone who knows the history of the story (or has seen the trailer)
knows that Jung and Spielrein eventually engage in a sexual
relationship of their own and I believe the release of this tension
between the two of them is where the film starts to fall of it's axis.
After the incredibly intense and erotic first act, featuring a scene
where Jung runs a test on his wife (Sarah Gadon) that is as gripping as
anything in cinema this past year, the whole thing begins to fizzle out
when that tension is released and it only becomes more and more flat as
it goes on.

Whenever Jung and Freud are in the same room together the film begins
to light back up, as Fassbender and Mortensen engage in a tete-a-tete
for the ages, both men succumbed by their intelligence and arrogance to
the point where they refuse to see the other as their equal despite
their claims to be doing just that. Watching these two marvelously
talented actors bounce of each other, it's devastating that the rest of
the film couldn't measure up to their skill, and that half of their
scenes interacting together are done through them opening notes from
one another. The story spreads it's time (quite distractingly) between
the Jung/Freud dynamic and the Jung/Spielrein one, and it's in the
latter that it completely misses the mark. 

Once that sexual tension is released, the chemistry between these two
practically ceases to exist and each scene feels like a dull exercise
in the standard infidelity plot line. When the film reaches it's final
act and there are scenes of forced attempts at emotional payoffs, it's
impossible to feel anything because I wasn't able to feel anything from
the relationship the entire time leading up to it. There's no real
progression in their relationship on anything but a surface level and
as a result the payoff falls completely flat.

It certainly doesn't help that, for all of the controversial eroticism
in his career past, Cronenberg takes on the carnal moments of this
story with the lazy banality of someone much inferior to himself.
Several of the dialogue-driven scenes sizzle with a sexual intensity,
but when matters are actually taken to the bedroom they are hit with a
dullness that would be impossible to believe came from Cronenberg if he
didn't have his name stamped on it. In a year that gave us Pedro
Almodovar's The Skin I Live In, the most Cronenbergian film I've seen
that didn't come from the man himself, it's unbelievably disappointing
that this one is so removed from the standard this genius deserves.
It's unlike anything he's done before, and I mean that in the worst way
possible.
<|_=00=_|>
It's always difficult to review a movie based on psychology because
sometimes what's difficult to understand is too easily categorized as
illogical or bad execution.I heard so much criticism towards the last
movie by Cronenberg.I completely disagree with those bad reactions."A
dangerous method"is a brilliant ,absorbing and thought provoking movie
that boasts excellent performances by the three leading actors.The
direction is great and Cronenberg once again shows his uncommon ability
to tell a story in a very original way although the dialogs are
sometimes hard to follow,probably due to its subject.But there are
really breathtaking moments such as the scenes of the Spielrein
therapy.This leads me to Knightley performance.It was a brave,shocking
and terrific performance that it was criticized without a reason.I
didn't catch all that hatred.She has always been so good("Pride e
prejudice","Atonement" and "Never let me go")but here she left her
comfort zone to bare herself and gives one of the most exiting
performances of the year.Oscar worthy material.Fassbender was equally
great in the role of Jung and it's a pleasure to watch this splendid
rising A-list actor.Mortensen was good but I fear not as good as
Fassbender and Knightley.Cassell is always Cassell.He's a good actor
but he plays always the role of the daring man.I think that "A
dangerous method" is one of the best movies of the year.It succeeds to
transcend from his particular story to focus on the hidden instincts
associated with the human nature.My vote is 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't remember the last time when I have been so much in disagreement
with the general critical response for a movie Everywhere I look I
seem to hear and read high praises for Cronenberg's latest work, and
yet I am willing to bet that few of those who claimed to like it so
much would be ready to watch it again. As far as I am concerned I am
struggling to find something positive to say (well, yes, nice
costumes) and the only reason why my vote isn't any lower is because I
am willing to admit that I might have not been in the right mood for
it. Even in his most flawed films, Cronenberg has always been an
interesting director, or at least able to create not only an almost
palpable atmosphere, but also a particularly defined style and vision
which set him apart from the usual Hollywood crowd. And yet this one
seems a film with no direction whatsoever. Not only each sequence felt
random and inconsequential as if not necessarily edited in the right
order, without any real feeling of natural progression from the
previous one into the next, but also it was all so static and lifeless
that sometimes I even wondered whether anyone was actually directing at
all. At no point I felt any sympathy for any of the character: in fact,
not only I did not like any of them, but I didn't even hate them
either. I just didn't care. And this is is a rather strange thing to
say, because on paper, a film about the relationship between Carl Jung
and Sigmund Freud (and consequently the birth of psychoanalysis)
sounded to me very intriguing indeed. Sadly, pretty earlier on into "A
dangerous Method" I realised that this wasn't really the type of film I
was hoping to see. I found myself uneasy right from the word "go", that
is from the moment I saw Keira Knightley overacting like never before
and stretching her chin to new unbelievable levels, as if screaming to
the audience "I want that Oscar!!". Well, darling, not this time. Then,
after the early screams, it all calmed down a bit and the dialogue
started and that's when it got worse! For a film which should rely on
words more than action itself (especially given the static nature of it
all), I found the script absolutely puerile. It all felt like it was
written by a high school kid, who's just heard a few things about Freud
and wants to impress his friend with his newly acquired knowledge. I
mean, there are actually lines like "You Freud, have always sex in your
mind. Why does everything always has to do with sex?"! Really? Mr
Hampton, who are you writing this script for? Surely your target
audience doesn't need things spell out so boldly and blatantly. It was
like reading a checklist of all the possible clichés one could think
about psychoanalysis (and Freud in particular). Who is this film for
anyway? At times it felt like it was so ridiculously basic, as if it
was written for people who have never even heard of Freud and Jung.
Other times it was all so riddled with heavy handed quotes and so "up
its own self" that it felt like watching some boring lecture given by
an even more bored teacher, sitting on your old desk back in school.
From such a renowned scriptwriter (he wrote Dangerous Liaisons and
Atonement among the other things) I was expecting a lot more: maybe Mr
Hampton should watch a few episodes of HBO's classy "In Treatment" to
learn a thing of two about the subtlety of bringing psychoanalysis to
the screen. As far as the two leading male actors (Fassbender and
Mortensen, who by the way was so good in both Cronenberg "A History of
Violence" and "Eastern Promises"), they were as good as they could
possibly be, but in the end they both failed to impress, move, or even
raise any sort of emotion beyond boredom. But then again, that's hardly
surprising given both the script they were actually given and a clear
lack of any direction, which forced them to talk at each other in the
most contrived scenes and badly staged, where even the extras in the
background seemed fake and moved slowly and gently like ermwell,
extras (particularly noticeable in the scene by the river). Sorry
David, not this time for me
<|_=00=_|>
Sabina Spielrein was one of the first female psychoanalysts, a
fascinating achievement given the fact that she was committed to a
mental institution for an entire year. After studying medicine and
child psychology in Zurich, graduating in 1911, and getting elected
into the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society, she proposed an idea in 1912,
namely that the human sexual drive contained both an instinct of
destruction and an instinct of transformation. Her death in 1942 at the
hands of an SS death squad would all but erase her from the history
books until her hospital records, journal entries, and letters to and
from Carl Jung and Sigmund Freud were discovered and published; it's
now widely accepted within psychiatric circles that her 1912 proposal
greatly influenced the works of both men.

Spielrein is one piece of the puzzle in David Cronenberg's "A Dangerous
Method." We follow her, Jung, and Freud in a story that examines their
complex relationship, which is simultaneously strengthened and
threatened by their field of interest. Academically, they recognize the
frailties of the human mind and strive to steer others in socially
acceptable directions. Personally, they continuously fall victim to the
mental weaknesses they so carefully study, and they become increasingly
aware that social acceptability doesn't necessarily translate to common
practice. Strange, how even those who categorize people into absolutes
can themselves fall within ambiguous parameters. Perhaps it's those
very absolutes that drive people towards unhealthy behaviors.

One focus is the relationship between Jung and Spielrein, which begins
in 1904 and develops over the course of nearly a decade. Initially,
Jung (Michael Fassbender) was a fledgling twenty-nine-year-old
psychologist, who was married to a gentle but passive woman named Emma
(Sarah Gadon) and was expecting his first child. Spielrein (Keira
Knightley), Russian-born but able to speak fluent German, was a
violent, severely traumatized eighteen-year-old mental patient placed
under Jung's care, having been diagnosed with hysteria. Under an
experimental form of therapy known as "the talking cure," Jung sits
behind Spielrein and listens as she struggles to verbalize her
problems. She eventually reveals a childhood marred by beatings and
humiliation at the hands of her father. Further sessions unwittingly
reveal a sexual proclivity: She becomes uncontrollably aroused by
physical force.

This discovery brings Jung into the life of his mentor, Freud (Viggo
Mortensen), as it validates his theory that sexuality and emotional
disorders are intertwined. As the years pass, what began as a cordial,
clinical acquaintanceship deteriorates into a stubborn clash of
ideologies; Jung becomes increasingly bothered by Freud's unwillingness
to reconsider his theories about sex, whereas Freud cannot tolerate
Jung's growing interest in spirituality. During their initial
correspondence, Freud refers Jung to a psychiatrist-turned-patient,
Otto Gross (Vincent Cassel), a drug addicted hedonist; his arguments
against monogamy inspire Jung to violate his code of ethics and begin
an affair with Spielrein, which continues long after she ceases to be
his patient and enrolls in medical school. This is not merely a
physical attraction. He has truly fallen in love with her.

I have no way of knowing how historically accurate this film is, given
the fact that the relationship between Jung and Spielrein has never
been substantiated. There is, however, some compelling evidence of
their affair, most notably the fact that, unlike Freud, Jung never
publicly acknowledged Spielrein's influence on his work. Rumors of
other extramarital affairs also continue to circulate. Given this
history, it's easy to see why Jung is portrayed as a weak man in the
film  intellectually brilliant but emotionally stunted, consumed by
guilt over a situation he could have prevented. He continues having
children with his wife, and yet he cannot detach himself from
Spielrein, who may be troubled but is also incredibly intelligent and
sincere.

The screenplay by Christopher Hampton, adapted from his stage play "The
Talking Cure" (itself adapted from John Kerr's nonfiction book "A Most
Dangerous Method"), is well suited for the actors, the dialogue clever,
elegant, and packed with emotion. In true psychological form, every
line suggests a hidden meaning. This is especially apparent with Freud,
portrayed as a piercing intellectual who isn't interested in solutions
so much as the underlying problems  which, it seems, all stem from the
sexual organs. His scenes with Jung flow like verbal ping pong matches.
The scenes with Jung and Spielrein are fascinating in that they're
founded on more than curiosity, desire, and passion; they depict the
birth of a psychological movement. Herein lies the greatest strength of
"A Dangerous Method": It's a film to be listened to and not just
watched.

-- Chris Pandolfi (www.atatheaternearyou.net)
<|_=00=_|>
Given his entire filmography is concerned with themes linked to man's
identity and the complexities of human sexuality, David Cronenberg is,
on paper at least, the ideal director for A Dangerous Method, a movie
dealing with the birth of psychoanalysis. Then again, the film is also
a bit of an odd fit for him, since the script by Christopher Hampton
(Dangerous Liaisons) doesn't really lend itself to the outbursts of
graphic violence that permeate the Canadian auteur's body of work. The
result, first witnessed at the Venice Film Festival (after the film had
allegedly been rejected by Cronenberg's fest of choice, Cannes), is an
interesting but somewhat hollow entry in the director's admirable
career.

Ostensibly about the professional relationship between Sigmund Freud
(Viggo Mortensen) and Carl Jung (Michael Fassbender), A Dangerous
Method is in reality more concerned with the bond between Jung and
Sabina Spielrein (Keira Knightley), a young woman sent to his clinic in
Zurich since her mental condition is an ideal subject for his research.
Sabina, it turns out, is incredibly well-read, and soon progresses from
patient to assistant, much to the amusement of Freud, who corresponds
regularly with Jung about their mutual scientific interests and also
meets the young woman on a few occasions. The relationship between the
three evolves in even stranger ways as time passes, with Sabina taking
an unexpected place in Jung's heart...

With its combination of psychoanalysis and sex, the story - perhaps
familiar to European film buffs thanks to Roberto Faenza's
Italian-language take on the same subject - has all the right
characteristics to be vintage Cronenberg (hints of which are offered in
the opening and closing credits via Howard Shore's music). And yet
there's something missing: whereas the reconstruction of Vienna in the
early 20th century is impeccable, the director appears to be less
interested in the actual development of story and character, with a
rather detached approach that suggests he's almost working on
autopilot. That having said, part of the blame can be laid on Hampton,
whose screenplay only glosses over key details of the story, leaving us
with a quite simplified, "safe" version of events (the sex is unusually
tame and unchallenging for a Cronenberg film).

The performances are a mixed bag as well: Knightley, stuck with the
showy role, is unbearably OTT in the first 30 minutes, shouting and
shaking endlessly before she eventually tones down the mania and
focuses on finding the character, complete with a solid Russian accent.
At the other end of the spectrum is Mortensen, pitch-perfect from the
start but criminally underused, especially considering his past
associations with Cronenberg. And then there's Fassbender, quietly
intense and generally up to the task, were it not for his decision to
speak RP English when he and Mortensen, who adopts a German accent, are
supposed to be from the same country (this is even more perplexing if
one thinks of Fassbender's flawless mastery of German).

A Dangerous Method is thus a textbook case of a film that, while not
disappointing in the strict sense of the word, comes off as a minor
effort in a generally spotless filmography. But even on an off-day,
Cronenberg deserves to be seen at least once. Just don't expect another
History of Violence...

6,5/10
<|_=00=_|>
This started very well, great cast, landscapes, scenography, characters
etc. I loved the idea of to greatest psychology minds working together
on improving therapy methods and changing the approach to curing people
of their traumas and problems. Where i find the movie failed a bit is
the story where the connections in the scenes are bit off. I got the
feeling that it was jumping trough periods without any connection which
i could put together. It seemed like there were years in gaps between
couple of scenes where there wasn't any. Even if this followed only
true life events of Jung and Freud it still leaves us with wanting more
then just few dialogs and scratch on the surface of psychology
treatments. Kinsey (2004) is a movie which is a good parallel example
how a movie about similar subject can be and can be done brilliantly.
Maybe movies about lives of both Jung and Freud are in order. So, all
in all, i enjoyed watching it, everyone did a great job and gives you a
good feeling after, it has minor gaps in the story which doesn't make
you stick to the chair but definitely recommend it to everyone.
