
Screenplay writer John Michael McDonagh's directorial debut, "The
Guard" (2011) is really a fine movie, relying the least on the
originality of its story, describing criminal proceedings of the group
of cocaine drug-smugglers and their interaction with local police, set
against the backdrop of small-town western Ireland, however, filled
with crackling good dialogue, sparkling with wisecracks, accompanied
with nice scenery and pleasant, unobtrusive music. But, what makes it
the best is its protagonists' performances.

Brendan Gleeson is usually natural, making the character he plays fit
like a glovewhether the robust and humorous loyal buddy and the
warrior, as in "Braveheart" (1995), or a quiet and subdued aspiring
politician, as in "Gangs of New York" (2002), or a non-supportive
father, civil war volunteer-turned-deserter, as in "Cold Mountain"
(2003), whether the gentle, mentoring, culture-exploring hit man in
hiding, as in "In Bruges" (2008), or on the other side of the law, the
grouchy police sergeant with defiant, often dissident sense of humour
(provocative in one-liners like "being FBI, don't you prefer to fight
unarmed women and children"), as in this movie--and Don Cheadle, in
the role of FBI agent Wendell Everett, a bit in the shade of Gleeson's
Gerry Boyle, but nevertheless, sufficiently competitive ("Langley is
CIA, I'm FBI"), neat and convincing in his performance as always. (I
admit to have a soft spot for this actor since his impressive role of
the manager of Kigali Mille Collines hotel in the movie "Hotel Rwanda"
(2004), the very same hotel I have been frequenting for two months in
1995, just a year later to tragic events described in the movie.)

To a pretty frequent movie goer like myself, who hasn't seen a single
en par (or better?) leading actor in this year that is rapidly
advancing towards its end, it is hard to believe that very many better
acting performances could be demonstrated in the remaining two months
or so. Therefore, if Brendan Gleeson does not find himself at least
among top nominees for any yearly awarded film prize, I'll have a
problem finding such decisions just.

As a marginal note, I was lucky to watch this movie back home in my
motherland, because having it subtitled was very helpful in order not
to miss any of sergeant Boyle's wisecracks, delivered often in heavy
Irish accent, and to understand at all occasional lines, uttered by
marginal characters, spoken completely in Gaelic. Of course, point was
not to be understood by English native speakers, but it was still
interesting to know what usual "advices" (if not insults) were given to
English speakers, though eventually not English (as FBI agent!) at all.
As Irish colleague of mine once said "We don't sing songs in Gaelic so
English people cannot understand how badly we talk about them, they
know it already! We sing in Gaelic simply because that's our
traditional language (N.B. official whatsoever), and songs sound much
better and sweeter in it."
<|_=00=_|>
I must take issue with the bobbowhite review.

As a citizen of Ireland I can safely say that this film is easy to
understand and accents should not be adjusted just so that USA folk can
follow.

If an English MP can find the film enjoyable and recommend it to her
35,000+ twitter followers, then no-one should complain.

The scenery is superb.

The characters just right for the West of Ireland as I remember it.

The whole scope of the current Irish populace is contained in the film
and age old attitudes subtly dealt with.
<|_=00=_|>
Michael McDonagh is the brother of one of the funniest writers in the
world just now. Like him, he is a foul mouthed upstart with a unique
ability to investigate Irishness with tremendous energy and vividness.

I was lucky enough to attend the premiere in Edinburgh this week and
enjoyed what is another great addition to the McDonagh canon of work.

Inevitably it has to be compared to the superior In Bruges but this is
no lightweight cast off. Particularly when it one again focuses on a
heavyweight performance by Irish heavyweight, Brendan Gleeson. In "In
Bruges" Gleeson had to battle for compliments against Colin Farrell who
has never performed better and had most of the best lines. Not here.
This is all Gleeson, ably abetted by Don Cheadle as the Black FBI agent
drafted in on the back of a glittering career to track down a bunch of
slightly bungling drug runners in sleepy old Conemarra - Gleeson's
patch.

Gleeson and Cheadle spar well and develop a likable relationship,
despite this it's not the heart of the movie; that belongs, again, to
Gleeson in a tour de force performance.

Cheadle's good and is a great foil. The baddies are less well developed
characters and, for my taste, were slightly too caricaturised.

It's not a life changing film but it has to be seen for Gleeson's
complete mastery of McDonagh's marvellous script.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the fact that I live in a bustling metropolis, all of the
theaters that show smaller films are somewhere between 30 and 50 miles
away. In "Dallas Traffic Time", that translates to somewhere between 90
minutes and 16 days. As a result, I don't get time to see many of these
films until they come to DVD, if at all. In my experience, art house
films are often the most difficult to write about and even more
difficult to properly judge, particularly in the summer. When almost
everything I've watched in the last three months has involved
superheroes, aliens, or jokes related to bodily functions, I have a
tough time transitioning to more mature and cinematic endeavors. So it
is with "The Guard, a film entirely unlike anything else I saw this
summer.

Sergeant Gerry Boyle (Brendan Gleeson) is an off-the-wall, somewhat
crotchety veteran police officer who patrols a small Irish town.
Shortly after beginning an investigation into a peculiar murder, Boyle
discovers that his case is related to a major drug ring that is
currently being hunted by FBI agent Wendell Everett (Don Cheadle). As
straight-laced as they come, Everett is an odd pair for Boyle but the
two are forced to work together to take down the cartel. When the case
pulls Boyle in deeper than he would have ever imagined he is forced to
reexamine his life's work and turn himself into an unlikely hero.

If that synopsis makes "The Guard" sound wholly serious, bear in mind
that it is completely and totally a comedy. A dark comedy to be sure
but a comedy nonetheless. If you've ever wondered what "Hot Fuzz" would
be like if it was subtle and less over-the-top, "The Guard" fits the
bill. This is writer/director John Michael McDonagh's first full length
film but I would never have guessed it if not for the magic of IMDb. It
is a witty, well-written film that makes its tone clear from the first
scene. The pacing isn't exactly what I would call slow but instead
calculatedly casual; it knows where it intends to go and it makes its
way with balanced determination. This is a film that knows its own
identity and doesn't stray from the dark comedy path more than a time
or two. Its humor is smart and lively. Even with the thick accents
(which probably caused me to miss a joke or two) "The Guard" is filled
with exquisite dialogue and understated jokes that brought more laughs
than anything from all but the very best big budget comedies this year
has brought. 

The plot of "The Guard" is simple but refined and that pushes all of
the attention onto the characters and the actors who portray them.
Cheadle is a solid straight man and as he always does, he makes the
absolute most of every scene he is given. As one of the ringleaders of
the drug ring, Mark Strong's character is straight out of a Guy Ritchie
film, a role Strong is great at playing. Please Mr. Strong: stick to
these films and stay away from popcorn crap like "Green Lantern." But
despite all of the excellent actors around him, "The Guard" is all
about Gleeson. His work in 2008's "In Bruges" (coincidentally directed
by McDonagh's brother Martin) finally brought him the attention he
deserves, but Gleeson has always been a favorite of mine, a magnificent
actor who never fails to impress no matter how little screen time he is
given. Boyle is a without a doubt a curmudgeon (and a slightly racist
one at that) but Gleeson makes him exceedingly likable. He is a wild
card, the type of guy who does the right thing when you're absolutely
sure he's going to continue to disgrace himself and Gleeson pulls this
off perfectly. Moreover, he once again exhibits the brilliant comedic
timing that has made him one of the best and most versatile actors that
Ireland has to offer. I'm not saying it's his best performance but
rather another in a long string of quality portrayals that illustrate
just how undervalued this guy really is.

Fun, intelligent, and genuinely hilarious, "The Guard" is an excellent
departure from my typical fare this time of year. I've made no bones
about the fact that I really like summer blockbusters. I love them, in
fact. But when a movie like "The Guard" comes along in the midst of the
"Conan the Barbarians" of the world, it serves as an incredibly
refreshing reminder of what we have to hope for in the coming months.

Check out my site: www.thesoapboxoffice.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
The guard is like lethal weapon if it was set in the west of Ireland.
Unorthodox police work-yes, disregard for superiors -check, only thing
is Sgt. Gerry Boyle has slightly less enthusiasm for action than
Officer Riggs.

At times during this movie I had to turn away so no one would see me
smiling at the few racist comments, slurs and generalizations. But I
wasn't surprised to see behind me, no else in the cinema was holding
back the laughter. It seems that it takes a lot for Irish people to
find something offensive.

The rest of the characters were enjoyable to watch. They are a close
representation of who you should expect to meet if you spend enough
time in Ireland and will get you into some memorable 'situations'.

OK so this review is more about Ireland than the movie but I think to
enjoy this movie you need to embrace both the story and culture of the
country.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/Director John Michael
McDonagh is the brother of Martin McDonagh, who brought us the
excellent In Bruges (which also starred Brendan Gleeson). I figured it
best to say that upfront because there is no way to avoid comparisons
of the two films. Clearly these men grew up in the same house and were
trained in a brilliant method of writing dialogue.

Brendan Gleeson delivers a powerful and hilarious performance as a
local cop (Garda) in rural Ireland. His Sgt Gerry Boyle is quite an
enigma - he gets along great with locals, yet struggles to fit into
society. This is never more apparent than when FBI Agent Wendell
Everett (Don Cheadle) hits town on a drug smuggling investigation. The
key to their relationship is crystallized at the moment an exasperated
Agent Everett says to Boyle, 'I can't tell if you are really smart or
really dumb'. Of course, I am paraphrasing because the F-word gets
literally worn out in this movie. There aren't many lines I can
actually quote in print. But the word rolls off Gleeson's tongue as if
it's a work of art ... especially in conversation with his ailing
mother, played well by the always terrific Fionnula Flanagan.

The international drug smugglers being chased are a trio led by Liam
Cunningham and the always interesting Mark Strong. The endless rips,
insults and jokes are fired rapidly at Americans, Brits and anyone
unfortunate enough to hail from Dublin. Boyle uses his Irish background
as a crutch for his racism and insensitivity. But he leaves no doubt
about his expertise as a cop. Heck he even recognizes the importance of
some 9 year old kid riding around on a pink bicycle. That's just
another example of the off-center approach to story telling offered by
McDonagh.

If you are a fan of In Bruges, Snatch, or Lock Stock and Two Smoking
Barrels, I think you will enjoy this one. It falls just short of that
level, but not by much. Gleeson is outstanding and the story is simple
enough, yet with plenty of twist, turns and hilarity.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie in Galway at the film Fleadh. Dit it entertain me?
Absolutely. Would I buy it on DVD / Blu Ray ? Another yes. Funnier than
The Hangover [1st film] In my opinion yes. However just like that film
you have to decide very early on to suspend your disbelief and just go
along for the ride. 

I feel a little for John Michael McDonagh as he will no doubt always
walk in the shadow of his brother. Which is a burden most writer /
directors do not have to deal with. Already an early reviewer has
compared it to In Bruges. I think I gave In Bruges a ten star rating.
This has an eight. In Bruges - as extraordinary as it was - had a whiff
of truth about it and the danger in the movie was real. Here the action
is so cartoon that it generates no tension at all, and you never really
fear for the characters. Of course Gleeson is in both movies and in my
opinion give a much better performance in In Bruges. . Here he is just
having fun. Who can blame him... The characters in The Guard are drawn
with very broad brush strokes, and lack any kind of subtlety. The
sub-plot involving Fionnula Flanagan feels bolted on and slows the
movie down. It's intended to show the main character has a softer side,
but you can get that through the thrust of the main story, and the
elements are there to take advantage of this. Simple things that could
have been done to add a little more realism and heart to the movie that
would have generated greater emotion, depth of feeling, tension,
jeopardy and ultimately bigger laughs.

At the Q & A afterward it was suggested the script was written in 13
days. Clearly that was just a first draft - but I do think subsequent
drafts were not worked hard enough. As sometimes there isn't enough
breathing space between the jokes... so the bigger gags / situations
don't build in the way they should. Or a moment of compassion is lost
because a laugh comes rolling on top of it due to a cheap gag.In that
respect it feels to me as if the writer / director is still learning
pace and rhythm. It's very common in comedy where a writer doesn't want
to lose what he feels is a good gag - but sometimes you have to cut gag
A in order to get a bigger laugh on gag B. A stronger script editor on
the film could have made all the difference.

So all in all it is a bravo. I very much enjoyed the movie. I do expect
John Michael McDonagh to go on to bigger and better things and I wish
the movie great success. After all 8/10 is a great score.
<|_=00=_|>
For everyone who saw and loved In Bruges, have I got the next movie for
youThe Guard. This is a fantastic piece of cinema brought to us by
John Michael McDonagh, the brother of Martin McDonagh, who was
writer/director of In Bruges. This is the first major film directed by
John Michael McDonagh and it does not disappoint.

Set in western Ireland, The Guard begins aerial view of a drunk driver
cruising down the highway at high speeds. Right from the start it's
easy to understand where the humor will come from  Brendan Gleeson,
who also played a large role in In Bruges. The car goes out of frame,
skids, squeals, and crashes in front of Gleeson's patrol car. Oh, did I
mention he's a cop this time? Quite the role reversal. The crash wakes
him  slowly  from his day dream and he pulls up to check out the
scene. After rummaging through the pockets of one of the people in the
car he finds a bag of drugs, which he tosses away from the body,
though, not before dropping a tablet of acid for himself. Cut to
introductory credits.

If this doesn't get you off, leave the theatre and begin questioning
your understanding of what's funny. The rest of the movie is comprised
of smartass remarks and brilliant dry humor.

Don Cheadle plays a straight laced, by the books, FBI agent from the
States investigating a drug smuggling scheme that's rumored to be
happening in the area. These two must work together to find crack an
overlapping case (Cheadle's looking for the drug lords, Gleeson's
looking for murder suspects  the same people). It's a good buddy-cop
narrative between the two and they work really well together.

I don't want to gush too much more over this movie, just go see it.
I'll leave you with a quote that should depict a fair picture about the
humor in this movie: Gleeson: I'm Irish. Racism is part of my culture.

See this movie. Until next time folks, cheers!
<|_=00=_|>
I really don't like those phrases but this movie deserves the "instant
classic" tag in my book. B. Gleeson is just amazing and seeing Don
Cheadle having a role where he is actually acting is a treat in itself
too. He has shown so much potential (Hotel Rwanda to name but one
movie), but has done quite a few awful movies too, that I always relish
him in the ones that actually are good. 

But it's the Gleeson show here and the guy shows he can carry a movie
alone. He is funny, witty and his character is quite hard to define.
Actually a sort of Dujardin "OSS 117", but more realistically and more
cynically I guess. Or if you want to go old school, Pink Panther it is.
There is not enough good words I can say about this, so I suggest you
go ahead and watch it yourself :o)
<|_=00=_|>
"The Guard" is definitely a movie to recommend. Its beautiful
simplicity, provoking colors and incredibly witty lines simply make
this a small masterpiece. I haven't expected a thing, but it does seem
that this directorial surname becomes something to be kept close within
the radar.

It has somewhat of that Warhal-like touch to it within the play of
multiple strong colors and nuances, where it is visually provoking and
satisfying, easy to relate and almost as easy to touch. Along with
remarkable scenery and those absolutely sets details, the roles are
accordingly brilliant. 

Brendan is more than expectedly good and from my point of view, this
might just be his best role so far (though all are excellent). The
easiness and the flow make the movie a cake one swallows easily. Though
grim at all times, it puts a big smile on a face from the first moment. 

Unpretentious and fresh, it has a tiny nuance of early '90 movies such
as "Pulp Fiction", but unlike others, the directing made it look
absolutely different. It is unpredictable at all times, yet one keeps
waiting for Gleeson's next line. Probably one of my favorites for some
time. Will watch again, definitely.

As for the language, I have to agree with the issue - English is not my
native language but it was so awful trying to watch it with those
unnatural subs in English. It took half of the fun and I simply turned
it off and enjoyed it, understanding it easily. Being so lost in
translation, it certainly will not be as great as it really is - even
one line lost is too much for such a screenplay.

I'm not an Irish, right. Yet I could identify easily with the
characters and feel the ease. As for this year's movies I've seen so
far, this was the biggest surprise and biggest satisfaction.

With simple soundtrack which turns out fully unexpected towards the
very end - much of a "Mexican standout", "The Guard" is truly a
rewarding movie and a hope that there are still ways to make fresh ones
to enjoy without having to compare or predict.
