
This is a biopic about how King George VI, the father of Queen
Elizabeth II, overcame his stuttering problem. Widely considered by all
but his father unfit to be king, George is reluctantly thrust unto the
throne and into the spotlight after his brother is forced to abdicate.
Overshadowed on the global stage by powerful orators like Adolph Hitler
and Benito Mussolini, the King relies on the help of a little-known
Australian speech therapist named Lionel Logue to find his voice and
courageously lead his people into the most devastating war humanity has
ever faced.

This is a powerful, hilarious and deeply moving story, told against the
backdrop of a critical juncture in modern history, of the emergence of
a deep friendship out of a professional relationship between two men
who would otherwise never have socially interacted. The screenplay,
written by David Seidler (who also wrote Tucker: The Man and his
Dream), is excellent. The dry British wit is hilarious. I was literally
slapping my knee during some of the scenes. Tom Hooper (Elizabeth I)
does a superb job directing this movie. The buildup to the climactic
finale is skillfully executed and prompted the audience to erupt into
spontaneous applause. (Apparently, this also happened at the Roy
Thomson Hall premiere.) Geoffrey Rush (Elizabeth: The Golden Age) does
a fantastic job as Lionel Logue and Colin Firth (A Single Man) is
excellent as King George VI.

I saw the second public screening of this movie at the Ryerson Theater
during the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF). Tom Hooper was
present to introduce the movie. He was joined by Colin Firth and
Geoffrey Rush after the movie ended for a brief Q&A.

It turns out that David Seidler also had a stuttering problem as a
child and drew inspiration from the king's struggle. Early in his
career he wanted to write a screenplay about it. He dutifully asked the
Queen Mother for permission. She agreed but told him "not in my
lifetime". Little did he know she would live to be 101 and he would
have to wait another 30 years.

Another interesting tidbit we learned was that near the end of the
shoot, the crew finally located one of Lionel Logue's grandsons, who
just so happened to live about 10 minutes away from the director. They
got access to Lionel's diaries and correspondence and managed to
incorporate some of it into the script.

This movie is an unqualified must see.
<|_=00=_|>
I think I must have seen a different film from the previous two
reviewers at Leeds on Friday. It is now two days ago and I am still
feeling overwhelmed by what I saw. It is a very touching, and quite
inspiring story about a man, psychologically scarred, and trapped in a
situation from which he could have no escape and facing it with immense
courage. It so happens that he was royal, and that was a large part of
his problem- but the film isn't so much about royalty as a human story.
The film conveyed very powerfully in the opening scene, the enormity of
what was required of him. As the film develops, the complexities of the
character are revealed. The acting is superb, especially from the three
principals, and the development of the troubled and sparky relationship
at the heart of the film is a joy to watch. The film is very funny and
the characters have warmth and humanity. The film is well paced, and
carries you along to the emotional climax, so that, even though I knew
the story, it had me holding my breath. If you don't need lots of
action or special effects in your film, and enjoy seeing top-notch
actors at the very peak of their craft, this will be for you. You might
also, as I did, gain a bit more insight into the human drama behind a
significant, but relatively unexplored period of British history.

If CF and GR both win Oscars they will be more than worthy winners and
if they don't then "best" has no meaning. 

One further thought- anyone who thinks that this film is unsuitable for
teenage viewers needs to have a long hard look at their priorities. It
could prove inspirational to anyone with communication difficulties.
<|_=00=_|>
There were a lot of elderly folks in the theatre when I saw The King's
Speech. It occurred to me that some of them may have been alive when
George VI gave the actual speech to the British Nation which had just
declared war with Hitler.

The King's Speech is a feel good movie, but a very adult one, and while
it tells a good story, well scripted, absorbing and believable (except
for an odd line or two), Tom Hooper's film is far more driven by
character than by plot.

You may need to see it to believe it but, Colin Firth has no obvious
competition for the best actor awards which are coming his way. He is
absorbed in the role of the stammering king who is timid, low in
self-confidence, and frustrated but perfectly warm-hearted. The only
time he doesn't stammer is oddly enough when he curses. This is
something which his new speech therapist suggests he use as a practise
tool in the one scene which earned the film an R rating. The King's
Speech is arguably a proud moment for Geoffrey Rush as well. This is
him at his best, and he and Firth together almost make the movie. Their
exchange of dialogue is flawless. 

The King's Speech boasts an exceptional cast, which includes Helena
Bonham Carter, Michael Gambon, Derek Jacobi and Guy Pearce, all of whom
help contribute to the picture with the smallest amount of screen time.

The King's Speech says a mouthful, and it warms the heart without
question. There is also no question is arguing that it is among the
very best of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
No spoilers here. I would like to let everyone know that this is an
excellent film. I enjoyed it this week at the Mill Valley Film Festival
in Marin County, CA. Given the outstanding cast and director, and my
fascination with historical figures, I had high hopes for this film,
though mixed with a certain resignation that I might be disappointed.
There was no way I could have imagined how wonderful "The King's
Speech" would be. There was abundant humor without the film ever
becoming a comedy, drama without dreariness, and many deeply moving
moments. I can't praise this film enough. It boosted my appreciation of
the human capacity to become our best selves, and rise to meet even the
most daunting challenges.
<|_=00=_|>
I could write for hours about this film. I only just heard about it
last night at a New Year's Eve party. Saw it today. To use the
vernacular, OMG. Director Tom Hooper has a masterpiece on his hands.
Geoffrey Rush, Helena Bonham Carter, Derek Jacobi, and Timothy Spall as
Winston Churchill, all turn in excellent performances. Not to forget
Guy Pearce as King Edward who abdicated his throne for an American
divorc√©e. David Seidler's script is brilliant. The story is laid out
cleverly. The pace and rhythm are PERFECT.

I think this is one of the best films ever made. It will tear at your
guts. And that is where Collin Firth comes in. Mr. Firth gives one of
the most poignant and affective performances ever by a male movie star.
Where, inside himself, an actor goes for a performance like this, is
beyond my comprehension. 

In the movie, "A Single Man", Colin Firth served notice that he was an
actor of depth and subtlety, the surface of which he had only just
begun to scratch. Now, he's more than scratched that surface. He's
gouged a chasm through it. He plays the tormented, soon to be King of
England, George VI, and does so in a way that very early in the movie
buries his hooks in you and doesn't let go. I can not ever recall,
while watching a film, having to choke back tears for over an hour and
a half. The suffering portrayed by Firth as George VI is subtle at
times. In your face at others. But painfully present always. When Firth
bellows, "I am a King" I nearly lost it in a very quiet, and stunned,
theater. If you've already seen this film you know what this refers to. 

As an American I find the concept of a monarchy bewildering. Why is one
person more privileged than another just because of the womb he or she
sprang from? That being said, I do find the stories of those trapped in
this anachronistic time warp fascinating at times. This would be one of
those times. This film is the intersection of great personal pain,
international upheaval, and a family that is ceremoniously
dysfunctional to it's core. 

Above this chaos, confusion, and unrest, rises a weak shell of a man to
greatness. Colin Firth is the vessel for that transformation and if he
doesn't win an Oscar for this performance it will tarnish the Academy
forever in my humble opinion. This is the kind of performance, and film
overall, that you leave thinking to yourself that you've just seen the
greatest movie ever. Maybe later you'll see another brilliant film and
think that "this one" is the best ever, but for now "The King's Speech"
has no equal.
<|_=00=_|>
I rarely rate a movie a "10" but in this case, it is well deserved.
Truly, there is no way to improve upon the achievement that this film
represents, whether in casting, direction, writing, artistic value, you
name it.

The story gives us a fascinating look into the struggles faced by
George VI on his way to becoming king of England. The story line is all
about his stuttering, but underneath all that are suppressed memories
from childhood, growing up in the shadow of an elder brother, perpetual
negative reinforcement from a domineering father, etc. It's a
psychoanalytical look at a well-known royal family, and while I can't
vouch for its absolute veracity, it gives a rare glimpse into the lives
of people we wouldn't otherwise observe at this level of intimacy (much
like "Queen" did a few years ago).

The contrast between George and Edward VIII is most fruitful. It's the
clash between duty and hedonism, fulfilling one's personal quest for
happiness vs. overcoming one's worst fears on behalf of your people and
country. Edward is typically romanticized and lionized, but here we see
him as more of a spoiled, selfish lout.

But the heart of the movie is the relationship between George and
Lionel Logue (Geoffrey Rush), who is helping him overcome his speech
problems. Both actors are at the absolute top of their form. Firth is
brilliant as the aloof, initially reluctant and distrustful monarch,
while Rush shows the same wink-of-the-eye humor and irony that he did
as Barbossa, relishing the sheer inequality of their positions yet
knowing the extent to which George is dependent on him. Ultimately a
true friendship develops between the men, and since they are both such
endearing characters, it's a joy to watch.

I should add that Helena Bonham-Carter is also spot-on as the haughty
yet practical queen consort. Other more minor roles are effectively
played (e.g., Winston Churchill, George V). The entire movie is a
perfect blend of history, personal and familial drama, with broader
themes of perseverance and overcoming adversity which give it a
timeless application.

Lastly, in this movie's case, the "R" rating is for "Ridiculous." The
only potentially offensive material is some over-the-top language
(including the F-word) which plays a part in one scene, and is clearly
used for comic purpose and with great effect. I unhesitatingly took my
13 year old daughter and (depending on the child) might be okay for
even younger ones. Don't let that stop you from seeing this gem.
<|_=00=_|>
You heard it from me: Not even James Franco with his boffo performance
in 127 Hours can beat Colin Firth for the Oscar in King's Speech, a
docudrama about the Duke of York (Firth) becoming King George VI while
overcoming a crushing stutter. Not only does the actor get pitch
perfect the stutter, but he also invests a kindness, courage, and
vulnerability in the character that work in harmony to create an
unforgettable George in an exquisite period peace.

Not to forget how generously Geoffrey Rush underplays Lionel, the
speech therapist who is instrumental in making the king a speaker and a
friend. That low-key acting allows Firth the room to expand his king's
personality without interference from an Oscar-winning co-star. This is
history as I like to learn it¬óhonest and engaging with palaces and
minor characters well-appointed and underplayed themselves as part of a
mosaic of challenges facing a handicapped king and a nation on the
brink of WWII. The pace is close to languid, better to allow us to
settle in for the painful transformation of a man unused to public
speaking but used to family mocking his disability.

George's bravery is the film's heartbeat, not flamboyant courage, mind
you, but rather the kind that wakes us up to the character as complex
and lovable. But valor is not his exclusively, Guy Pearce's Edward, who
abdicates for his love, Wallace Simpson, can be seen as a courageous
man giving up a crown for love or a fool falling for a twice-divorced
socialite.

Such an ambivalence is fitting for a film that gently introduces you to
a period in British history when alliances are not clear and
allegiances dangerous. One thing is patently clear, however¬óthis is
going to be on most critics' best film of the year list with a sure
Oscar winner for its star. If Firth missed the brass ring last year in
A Single Man, he'll grab it this year in King's Speech.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at Ryerson Theater during the Toronto International
Film Festival among many other movie's this one really acquired my
attention , wonder if it was for Colin Firth or Tom Hooper's writing.
This is a moving tale about a king's obligation and deep friendship
toward the nation he loved. The screenplay by David Seidler is genuine
and clever... Colin Firth as the king is utterly dazzling and doesn't
stop to amaze us movie by movie , like last year's A Single Man his
performance has good chance to end at the Oscar race this year.
Geoffrey Rush had one of the movie's well written role as the
Australian speech therapist Lionel Logue , his acting is splendid! Tom
Hooper did an remarkable work , every detail of the movie is memorable
On the whole this movie is a bright , smart and impressive picture.
<|_=00=_|>
What a wonderful performance! Compassion and clarity of vision, side by
side. Colin Firth has been a favourite of mine since the extraordinary
"Apartment Zero' (1989) His maturity as an actor reflects his maturity
as a person and how many times are we able to say that? Very few I'm
afraid. What I thought I saw in him as an actor playing the zero of the
title in "Apartment Zero" is here in spades. Wow! How rewarding! Here
he's not alone. Goeffrey Rush, Helena Bonham Carter and Guy Pearce are
all standouts and the stutter is just a device to show a whole picture.
How strange we knew so little about this man. I guess Hitler got all
the headlines. So from a historical perspective is also a feast of
sorts. Bravo indeed!
<|_=00=_|>
The title of the film wouldn't necessarily have caught my eye, but am I
glad I went to see this film, courtesy of an advance screening. It was
bound to be good with Colin Firth playing the Duke of York who went on
to become George VI, and he didn't let the audience down. Let's not
forget also the other main characters, Lionel Logue played by Geoffrey
Rush, Helena Bonham Carter as the Duchess of York, Michael Gambon as
George V and Timothy Spall as Winston Churchill - all absolutely
perfect for their respective roles. Whilst the dates in the film might
not have been completely accurate, the film tells the story perfectly,
sometimes humorously and and certainly sensitively, and I would like to
think in such a way that doesn't cause any embarrassment to any
surviving members of our Royal Family or indeed people who suffer from
what must be a very difficult condition to live with. Certainly a film
I would recommend to my friends.
