
Tobey Maguire fits in the role of Bobby Fisher, and this movie is yet
another example that the guy can act beautifully. The suspense builds
up as if you are watching the match happen live in front of your eyes.
What's more is that we see the paranoiac side of Bobby Fischer, a treat
to see Maguire portraying. Although there is not much physical
resemblance between Maguire and Bobby Fischer, but it is compensated by
his award-worthy performance, and once the movie gets a hold of you,
just sit back and enjoy. Again, I have to praise the performance of
Tobey Maguire. Never seen before as star of biopic, the actor's
hard-work paid off, and it's mainly the reason why I'm giving this
movie a full rating, although the good acting of supporting characters
do not go amiss. Liev Schreiber just won my heart with his performance.
Enjoyable and interesting piece of work on the real incidents of the
life of an evergreen chess legend. Worth watching, and worth
recommending.
<|_=00=_|>
I think I have seen a few movies about chess and like in all movies
concerning competitive sports I know that it could be very interesting
and inspiring. So don't assume that this is a boring movie because of
its theme.

This is based on the real life of chess legend Bobby Fischer who after
he became world champion, he lived a secluded, solitary life possibly
because of a mental illness which made him paranoid.

I am not a fan of Tobey Maguire (poor choice for Spiderman IMO) but he
gives a convincing performance in this. His tantrums and his stares as
he is building irrational thoughts about conspiracies and imaginable
dangers are s strong plus to the film.

The pace of the film is also good and the music by the veteran James
Newton Howard follows the emotions with grace.

Overall: Recommended
<|_=00=_|>
"Bobby won't crack, he will explode." Ever since he was a young boy
Bobby Fischer (Maguire) has been obsessed with chess. His dream of
becoming the youngest world champion ever has been crushed by the
Russian's way of playing and he slowly starts to lose his mind. Wanting
to prove to everyone, and himself that is is the best in the world he
sets up a series of matches with Boris Spassky (Schreiber), the best
player in the world. As the match draws closer Fischer begins to
descend further into madness and it starts to affect his ability to
play. I knew very little about the real story of Bobby Fischer before
watching this so most of this was new to me. For a movie about chess I
have to say the movie was actually pretty exciting to watch, and
Maguire really surprised me with his acting. I'm not sure how
historically accurate this is but watching it the tenseness was there
and you really felt uncomfortable for and with Bobby. One of the
surprise movies of the year that deserves a bigger audience than it
will get. I really enjoyed this and recommend it. Overall, great acting
and great drama. More movies like this should be made. I give it an A-.
<|_=00=_|>
A well-crafted biopic about one of the greatest matches in history. A
career-defining performance by Tobey Maguire. Who knew that a movie
about a game of chess could be so suspenseful and riveting. You won't
be able to take your eyes off of it.

Director Ed Zwick is the man who gave us "Glory," "The Last Samurai,"
"Defiance," basically movies that have epic battlefield sequences, so
it's interesting that his battlefield has been scaled down to the size
of a chessboard but it's just as colossal, this is a story back in the
era when the whole world was watching which of the two ideologies,
United States or the Soviets would ultimately win, tension was running
high but instead of bullets or nuclear weapons which both regions did
have, it all came down to between Bobby Fischer (Tobey Maguire) and
Boris Spassky (Liev Schreiber) and even if the movie may or may not
want to preach about which is the ultimate victor, it did capture the
animosity in the air, so sharp it can cut through glass, the hatred
against communism at the time.

Written by Steven Knight, who gave us "Eastern Promises," and "Locke,"
I think Knight gives in to Hollywood's long-held fascination with
brilliance and madness, it's a lot like "A Beautiful Mind," where a
person is so brilliant that his mind just snaps. Now, I didn't grow up
knowing a lot about Bobby Fischer, my dad taught me how to play chess
when I was a kid, but I was terrible at it, which is why I turned to
soccer. My point is, I don't know how out of touch Fischer really was,
and this movie itself is not a straight adaptation, but I think PAWN
SACRIFICE accomplishes what it set out to do from the start, this
correlation between genius and paranoia or insanity.

Mad props to actors Tobey Maguire and Liev Schreiber who, under the
direction of Ed Zwick, successfully manage to dramatize the game of
chess. Because chess matches are usually silent, so everything heavily
relies on the actors' facial expressions, it's all in the eyes and the
body language in order to understand the game's intensity. The movie
has to also entertain those who may not play chess and so it does, and
it's a testament to the amazing performances by Maguire and
Schreiber.The movie also brings up a good point that I think would
leave the audiences conflicted. Because we would feel like Bobby
Fischer would need medical treatment, but a part of us also don't want
to hinder or get in the way of brilliance, out of selfish reasons of
course, because we would want that brilliance to work in our favor. We
badly want to see the master play but at what cost.
<|_=00=_|>
I was bit skeptic on whether I should watch this movie or not.There has
been so much of slamming of this movie.It did not even have a wide
release.But thank God, I dared to watch.It is one of most intense
movies of recent times.From the beginning,your eyes remain glued to the
screen.The historic match between Spassky and Fisher has been depicted
so vividly, that at times you forget that you are watching a
movie.Tobey Maguire has been criticized a lot for his portrayal of the
legendary chess player.But I found him too good.His acting was as
intense as this movie.The frowning, the clenching, the swing of mood
everything was made so much believable.Liev Shreiber, too has done a
commendable job as Spassky.The cinematography is excellent.The close
shots deserve to be mentioned in particular.Finally, a good film from a
brilliant director like Zwick after a pause.Do not miss this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This biopic reminded me of "Ali"--it ran through all the obvious parts
of a famous man's life, parts you could glean from reading a Wikipedia
bio, threw in some over-dramatic music and a backstory about "family"
and viola! --biopic to order.

If you are clueless about who Bobby Fischer was, then you will probably
like this film, because you won't roll your eyes at all the chess
clich√©s, you won't get bored at being shown the obvious things about
Fischer (such as the details around the 1972 Reykjavik match), and you
will probably enjoy the novelty of the whole thing.

But who are we kidding? This event happened 44 years ago. If you don't
know about it by now, you are either very young or you live under a
rock. The film did not really try and show any INSIGHT into Fischer; it
just replayed the same record that anyone who knows ANYTHING about
Fischer already knew. But even then, they took liberties that were not
only inaccurate, but unnecessary and just distracting.

First of all, Bobby Fischer was a man from BROOKLYN. Everything about
the way this guy walked and talked showed he was a city kid, a real NEW
YAWKAH. Did you get that sense from Tobey's impression? I didn't. Tobey
didn't really sound all that Brooklyn-ish. In the famous Cavett
interview, the real Fischer bragged, but he did it in a way that was a
bit endearing. Tobey instead made him sound like an ass.

Second, Fischer was tall and lanky, and even gaunt-looking because of
that, yet Tobey was short and puffy-faced. Bad casting. Alexander
Saarsgaard (not Peter, as in the movie!) would have been a much better
casting choice.

Third, Spassky was a consummate gentleman. He never spoke to Fischer
like that during a game, or flipped over chairs to inspect them, and I
didn't buy the hotel room tantrum, which was really a transparent
device to make it appear that even Spassky was sick of the Soviet
control.

Fourth, Fischer received a cheap plastic set when he was younger and
used to play a lot with his sister, and then IN THE CLOSET. Instead
they show him sitting on the bed with a very nice wooden set, and the
next thing you know, he's beating strong club players. The entire youth
of Bobby Fischer was quickly skimmed over, although I did very much
like the part about the Russian mother, although I have a hard time
believing they were self-professed Jews, esp. with the rather sloppy
behavior of the mother.

Fifth, his second Lombardy, although he was a former priest, did not go
around wearing his priest outfit, esp. to Reykjavik. 

Sixth, to say game 6 was the "greatest chess game ever played" is quite
pretentious! I can think of a particular Marshall game which is more
exciting and filled with more nuance. 

Seventh, I don't buy Fischer losing his virginity to some hottie in the
hotel; they could at least have made him more charming if they're going
to embellish like that. 

Finally, and this is most important--Fischer's mental demise was not
really that pronounced at Reykjavik. Yes, he complained and was a prima
donna, and suspected the Russians of cheating. But he didn't go
full-bore on the Jews and the Zionist conspiracy thing until years
later. The film was not ambitious enough to explore possibly WHY
Fischer turned into a loon; it was complacent and even eager to just
SHOW his looniness.

The acting was decent. And the whole story--framing it as a cold war
battle between the US and Soviet Russia, was fitting, but easy--esp.
when they simply interspliced a lot of period footage and music between
the scenes. 

Avoid if you already know about Fischer's story and are a chess player!
<|_=00=_|>
Pawn Sacrifice is an engaging and well made biopic that is a rich work
of cinema. 

This flick takes place during the cold war, where America legend Bobby
Fischer finds himself in the middle of a political crisis between
America and the Soviet Empire. The movie starts out by showing Bobby
Fischer( played by Tobey Maguire) towards the beginning of his life,
and portrays the struggles he endured which affected him later on in
his life. The movie later shows him as a rising chess star and before
you know it, he is an adult; and one of the best chess players in the
world. He soon finds himself as a pawn in Americas Cold War, and has to
take on the number one chess player in the world, Boris Spassky. 

This movie is brilliantly directed (Edward Zwick), and gives you an
emotional feel for Fischer, and the cinematography is excellent. The
supporting cast was good, but Tobey Mcguire stole the show,giving one
of the best performances of the year. 

Pawn Sacrifice is an engaging and well-made biopic with solid
performances.
<|_=00=_|>
Was hesitant to watch this - didn't like the casting of Maguire as
Fischer. Ended up watching it anyway out of curiosity as this story has
intrigued me for many years. I still think Maguire was the wrong choice
to play Fischer. I would like to have seen Ryan Gosling or a younger
Josh Lucas attempt it. At least somebody who could carry off that
particular New York accent as that was one of his hallmarks for me. But
that notwithstanding, if Tobey was the only choice available then I
think he did a hell of a good job. I really enjoyed this. Edward Zwick
knows how to put a movie together. Great supporting performances from
Sarsgaard, Stuhlbarg and Schreiber. Having followed the story before I
got the general impression they were trying to remain faithful to what
happened at the chess championship in '72. I'm not sure how much of the
mental illness stuff I buy. Clearly there was some kind of paranoia
going on there - and the film deals with that well - but I think a lot
is projected onto this after the fact. Secondary gains. A lot is
conveniently bundled into the mental illness bucket which may just have
just been the man's world view. And I think that is disrespectful to a
brilliant man who is no longer here to defend himself. But that's not
so much a criticism of the film as the general view of Fischer out
there now. That said, I think this particular film probably handled it
more respectfully than most would have done. So overall it was a lot
better than expected. Definitely worth a watch - it's an extraordinary
real life story about the extremes of obsession required to compete at
that level, and the toll that it can, and often does, take. A subject
not too often tackled in a world that worships competition for prizes.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, the reviewer before me absolutely trashed this film for its
dramatic license, so now I don't know what to say.

This is the highly fictionalized story of Bobby Fischer, a chess
fanatic and genius who rose to the very top of his field. He was part
of a Russia vs. U.S. superiority struggle when he played Boris Spassky
(Liev Schreiber), the world champion back then, in the '70s. It's
unlikely he understood that; he didn't have a broad or worldly focus.
The chess was all he cared about, that and money.

Biopics sometimes take a lot of liberties. Characters are made up, time
is shortened, incidents are moved around, elements are put in for
dramatic emphasis. That's why you can't take a biographical film as
factual. It's better if you become interested in the person and read
about him, as I did about Fischer, though I remember him.

Toby Maguire does a fantastic job as Fischer. Yes, Fischer was tall and
Maguire is short. Frankly I wasn't made aware of Maguire's height while
watching the film.

I believe the filmmakers were trying to give us a psychological story
-- a complete genius with an IQ of 181 but one who also had mental
problems. Lots of so-called geniuses are strange, I suppose, but
Fischer was a real study in opposites.

He often made unreasonable, last-minute demands, made anti-Semite
remarks, and accused the Russians of colluding against him. In the
second game of his world championship against Spassky, he didn't show
up. Nevertheless, his achievements in chess were remarkable, and many
consider him the greatest chess player who ever lived.

His later life was a mess; he became reclusive; his passport was
revoked and finally, Iceland took him in. By then he was off the wall
completely.

Edward Zwick directed this film with a lot of zip and made it an
intense and absorbing experience, as did the actors. 

Look at this as the psychological story of a phenomenal talent whose
emotional/mental problems interfered with his life and career. Don't
take it as the detailed life of Bobby Fischer, his relationship with
his mother, and who taught him what. The most interesting thing about
him was his incredible talent.
<|_=00=_|>
"Pawn Sacrifice" (2015 release; 115 min.) is a fictional bio-pick about
chess legend Bobby Fischer. As the movie opens, we get archive TV news
footage from a bunch of different countries with the shocking news that
Bobby Fischer did not show up for Game 2 of the Chess World
Championship, as we see Fischer holed up in his room, refusing to come
out. We then go back to "15 November '51, Brooklyn, NY", where we meet
8 yr. old Bobby, growing up with his mom. We already see his mind
getting restless quickly, but also starting to astonish with his chess
moves. At this point we're maybe 10 min. into the movie, but to tell
you would spoil your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for
yourself how it all plays out.

Couple of comments: when I herd earlier this year that a movie was
being made about the life and times of Bobby Fischer, and that it was
directed by none other than Edward Zwick (the director of "Glory" and
"Defiance", among others), I was pretty excited about it. Alas, it was
not to be. What I thought would be a bio-pick on Fischer's life, turns
out to be a very selective look instead. The movie's focus is clearly,
and almost to the exclusion of everything else, on the 1972 World
Championship against Boris Spassky. Yes, we do get a few glimpses of
the younger Fischer. Fischer's mental problems do not get examined
in-depth but are dealt with hastily. "Bob has problems" comments Father
Lombarty, to which someone responds "So did Mozart", and end of story.
Most disappointing for me was that the film essentially stops with
Fischer's win in 1972. The remaining 36 years of his life, which remain
clouded in mystery for a good part, are dismissed in about 2 minutes at
the end of the movie. The leading acting performances, with Tobey
Maguire as Bobby Fischer and Liev Schreiber as Boris Spassky, are quite
good, but keep your eye out as well for up-and-coming Canadian actress
√âvelyne Brochu in the role of Donna, Fischer's very first girlfriend
(when he already was in his 20s). If you are interested in a more
in-depth look at the life and times of Bobby Fischer, I'd readily
recommend the excellent 2011 documentary "Bobby Fischer Against The
World".

"Pawn Sacrifice" opened this weekend on five screens for all of Greater
Cincinnati. I was eager to see it. The matin√©e screening where I saw
this at today turned out to be a private screening, as in: I literally
was the only person in the theater. I can't imagine that this movie
will stick around for more than a couple of weeks in the theater. I
encourage you to check out "Pawn Sacrifice" for yourself, be it in the
theater, on VOD or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray, and draw your own
conclusions.
