
Despite the movie is a over the top comedy that is ridiculous and
sometimes straight out offensive and disgusting, the movie makes you
laugh. I haven't laughed like this for a good while, so it does however
do its job as a comedy. if you are however looking for a calm comedy
that takes itself a little bit serious..... stay away XD It contains
offensive jokes, foul language (often from the small ones)
over-dramatic scenes with plot twists, scrap that! there is plot twists
everywhere, but the movie is for some reason able to keep you
entertained as you try to pick up all the popcorn you dropped on the
floor after laughing hysterically from a really bad line that just
turns even more awkward as the other character replies back. A must
watch mess for the ones that needs a good laugh, and bring a friend. It
makes the movie 10 time better when a cheap but funny line comes up and
both of you can relate XD
<|_=00=_|>
If you have discerning tastes, don't see this movie. If you need
escapism from the daily grind and are not in the mood to over-think
anything, this is a good movie for you. It's true; it is crude, much
cruder than the original. Most comedies today are just that. 

The people responsible for this movie were not thinking lets win an
Oscar, they were thinking lets make people laugh. According to the
theater I was in, it worked. We were all laughing. I wish it had been
longer with more situations, but I enjoyed what I saw. 

I recommend not taking your teen to see it. Let them wait till they're
17, not because they are too young, but as a mom it was really awkward. 

I will say this about Chevy Chase, he will always be Clark, but keep in
mind people age and put on weight. I say so what! The man is funny as
hell! This movie will not hold up to the original, don't see it without
seeing the original; you won't get the jokes.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a HUGE Vacation fan...and went to see this new one fresh except for
the trailers. Let me say this upfront....It's very funny, BUT, it's
also very raunchy. I have a high tolerance for that, and still found
myself cringing a few times. Funny that there was an "older" couple
behind me in the theater, with their teen "kids/grand-kids". They were
laughing HARD the first few minutes, then the lady says "this is too
much" and they almost left...but she said "no, it's funny". They stayed
all the way and we're laughing most of the whole way. BUT it is
uncomfortable at times. Still, it was VERY funny.

So, I went home and re-watched the original. It was pretty dark, and
filthy at times too. Just a little more "inside joke" than in your face
like the new one. But anyone that says the original was not cutting
edge...watch it again. Plenty of cursing, animal abuse, sex, and
shenanigans. It actually holds fairly true, given the 30 years. Oh, and
Chevy Rocks in his part. Still great comedic timing.
<|_=00=_|>
there is no way to describe how bad this movie is. when we arrived, we
were the ONLY 2 people in the theater! eventually 2 more people came
in. I've read some of the positive reviews, and I can only surmise that
we saw different films. there are no words to describe how horribly bad
this film is. I cannot fathom how anyone associated with making it,
especially the leading characters, would allow their names and careers
to be associated with such a disgusting film. how many times can a 9
year old say "fuck" or vagina or some other body part out of context.
swimming in feces is supposed to be funny? the humor is less than
juvenile. I don't think I have ever seen my wife walk out of a movie,
no matter how bad. she really wanted to see this but was ready to leave
after 20 minutes. I would give this move a minus "-" rating if possible
but a 1 is the only option.
<|_=00=_|>
MINOR SPOILERS I love the Vacation movies. In fact, "National Lampoon's
Christmas Vacation" is one of my favorite Christmas movies. And this
movie did not disappoint me.

This movie was really funny. It was classic Vacation humor and
conflict. The movie still reminded you of the Vacation that came out
many years ago. The jokes were funny and you laughed quite a bit. And
the trouble and all the stuff that went wrong just reminded you even
more of the original Vacation films. This movie was very raunchy and it
was also rated R unlike the other Vacation films which made the movie
even funnier with the inappropriate sexual humor and the coarse
language.

The cameos were awesome in this film. Chevy Chase, Charlie Day, Norman
Reedus, Keegan-Michael Key, and Michael Pena were all very funny
(especially Day) and were great cameos to have in the film.

Besides the cameos, the film had some good acting too. Ed Helms,
Christina Applegate, Skyler Gisondo, and Chris Hemsworth all did great
and were funny. But the actor who stole the show was Steele Stebbins.
He was hilarious and I laughed at nearly everything he said. He was a
great and hysterical child actor and I hope to see him in more films to
come.

I loved in this film how they gave you little flashbacks of the past
Vacation movies because it gave you a good feeling of when you were
watching the originals and how much you laughed. It was a great
addition to the movie and made the film have that touch of the past
that everyone loves.

If you love raunchy and dirty humor and you loved the original Vacation
movies, then you will love and enjoy this comedy film.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's be honest. 

Vacation isn't one of those must see movie blockbusters, and would
probably be one of the last choices for anyone to watch for the month. 

On the other hand, its much easier to arrange a group movie outing as
the chances of everyone watching that is pretty low ;)

The ratings for this particular movie are quite bad(reference
Rottentomatoes), which is no surprise as most crude comedies are rated
so. It wasn't as crude as I expected it to be though.(then again maybe
thats because it was moderated in Singapore)

To sum it up, we went in with low expectations. But! I could hear the
hall filled with laughter through-out the movie! and we came out
smiling and discussing about the funny parts as well. All in all an
enjoyable movie experience :)

Yes, it's not gonna win any awards or sure. but for anyone looking for
a light-hearted movie packed with laughter, WATCH THIS! :D I was
honestly afraid of drinking my soda for fear of spurting it out from
laughter.
<|_=00=_|>
Most importantly: relax. Take it easy (as the song goes). But do not
watch this, if you are easily offended. It really goes out there and
language wise, it does not only cross the line, it catapults over it,
with a vicious grin on its face. If you know you can't handle that,
better save your money and time.

For those familiar with the original (it's been too long since I last
saw it), there are a few throwbacks, most of which surely can be read
here. They are nice and as "tasteful" as they can be expected to be in
a movie, that really takes no prisoners. And I only watched the version
that was shown in cinemas. I can only imagine where they probably will
go in an extended version (that's surely happening, right? If not at
least many deleted scenes and outtakes, with more "fun" - for those who
liked it). Also many jokes throughout the credits, that will either
delight you or annoy you more - depending on how you liked the movie
<|_=00=_|>
Who DOESN'T remember the original Vacation film? I hate crude humor
with a passion, but I could overlook the occasional innuendo or sex
joke because the original film stayed family-friendly for the most part
and never got too crass or offensive. Well, unfortunately it looks like
the 21st century is now casting its wave of stupidity across every
nostalgic family film, and Vacation gets it especially bad.

This new Vacation film, starring the now grown-up Rusty Griswold,
wasn't funny, wasn't even remotely humorous, it was just disgusting and
pathetic. I was horrified by the number of parents bringing their
children to the theater to see this film. The scene with the cow's
insides exploding across a car? A little girl in the aisle in front of
me began to scream and cry and her parents ended up leaving with her. I
heard many adults saying "what the f*ck?" and just leaving out the
door. It was a nasty film, as if somebody took that Robin Williams RV
film, tossed it in a blender with a bad exploitation film and a few
episodes of that god-awful Family Guy show.

Some people love fart jokes and pervy sex jokes (what's wrong with
humanity these days!?), but if you're going to see this film, whether
you're into crude humor or not, THIS IS DEFINITELY NOT APPROPRIATE FOR
CHILDREN. I don't understand why it was being marketed on the radio
station here as being a family film. It's the kind of film that drunk
college guys and rednecks will fall in love with.

I bet it'll be The Goonies or Beetlejuice that gets wrecked by crude
sequels next. :(
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying that I enjoy crude humor. I loved The Hangover,
Old School, SuperBad, etc. But "Vacation" is flat out obnoxious and
unfunny. Not a single laughable moment. I didn't even find myself
smirking at any point. It was that awful. Not even the nostalgia of the
old "Vacation" movies could save this atrocity. The script seemed like
it was written by spastic 13 year old juvenile delinquents. When the
script wasn't obnoxious it was simply just uncreative. The car was so
over-the-top that it was eye-roll inducing. The angry Korean voice on
the GPS was unoriginal and clich√©. Helms and Christina Applegate should
quit acting, out of shame.
<|_=00=_|>
Really scraping the bottom of the barrel here, as supposed Rusty
Griswald attempts to bring his family together by locking them together
in a car for a week, and remaking his original trip to Hell, aka Wally
World.

A variety of gross-out gags follow, each more tasteless (and therefore
more boring) than the one before it, as the family is followed by a
seemingly obsessed truckie, goes swimming in an open sewer, and, in a
pointless vignette, visit supposed Audrey and her husband on a lavish
farmhouse- and while this audience member wondered why Rusty has become
even more stupid than Chase was in the first film. 

Subplot involving son's romance with a cute girl traveller was
potentially amusing, but her character disappears after only a couple
of scenes. The youngest son needed to be tasered, he was such an
obnoxious twit; completely irredeeming character. 

Chevy Chase and Beverly D'Angelo's characters put in brief cameos in
the film's penultimate scene, as does the Wagon Queen Family Trickster,
looking as grotesque as ever, in this far too self aware rehash/
reboot. 

Seemingly every other scene's climax was given away in the two
trailers, which made me feel as though I had already watched the film
before. 

I give this film a 3/ 10, one point for each time I chuckled during
this film's seemingly never ending run-time.
