
It's not a 10 star film but it is a fun ride with action that makes up
for a few flaws in plot and the flow of storyline. The best issue in
this film is almost constant action and wild biking through the New
York streets. One of the elements that were new to the screen and
highly workable were the sudden stop of action to follow the
split-second decision making of a messenger/biker. Choices (usualy
three) that have to be made in the moment. The bad guy in the film is
nasty and very believable. So, if you're looking for a thrill ride and
a fun film then go see it. Enjoy the earthy feel of the cameras that
capture the life of a messenger on two wheels competing with trucks,
cabs, and cops.
<|_=00=_|>
An action movie about biking through the streets of Manhattan is
certainly an interesting idea, and may seem a bit silly, but writer and
director David Koepp manages to create a fun and exhilarating film
around this premise. Premium Rush is the type of movie that gets better
as it goes on, expanding on its characters and creating riveting and
never tiresome chase scenes.

The story is a little over the top, but that hardly matters. Joseph
Gordon-Levitt plays Wilee, a bike messenger who loves to ride through
the streets of New York like a maniac, with no gears and no brakes. He
has a girlfriend who also works for the same company, although on this
particular day she is mad at him for not showing up to her college
graduation. Near the end of the day, Wilee gets a package from his
girl's roommate. This package is of some special importance because a
dirty cop, played with exquisite menace and insanity by Michael
Shannon, wants the package in order to pay off his immense gambling
debt. So of course a chase across the city ensues throughout the
remainder of the day.

One of the major benefits of this movie is that it is not told in
strict chronological order. The first scene shows Wilee crashing and
flying through the air, only for us to travel back in time to earlier
that day. Once we meet Michael Shannon's character and have a nice
chase, the movie again backs up for a bit, revealing what the dirty cop
was doing earlier that day. This helps the movie to avoid being simple
and tired. In fact, the movie has an energy that is on par with its
bike riding characters, who seem to hardly ever tire of pedaling. 

Koepp directs the movie with a flare for Manhattan, where the entire
movie was shot. The film makes a big deal about life in the city, while
minimizing the gaudier aspects of filming in the big apple. There is no
sweeping shots of Time Square or the Empire State Building, and we
don't even get a wide shot of the city until the very end. Instead,
Koepp immerses us in the town, and by extension the characters that
know it so well. At times the script falls into the realm of
cheesiness, especially when it comes to some of the one liners, and the
all encompassing pride that Wilee has in his work. 

Premium Rush is an exiting action movie, and the best one out about
bike riding. Michael Shannon's fantastic performance and the on
location shooting make this movie an energetic and awesome ride.

thatguythatlikesmovies.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
I'll be honest  when I first saw the trailer for Premium Rush I was a
bit skeptical. I scoffed at the idea of a thriller built around the
premise of a bike messenger delivering an important envelope on time.
But you know what? This is one of those rare late summer releases that
comes out of nowhere and entertains you way more than you could have
expected.

There's no pretense here. No delusions of grandeur. No misguided
Academy aspirations. Premium Rush is a film that recognizes the
boundaries of its skin and is completely comfortable in it. It's simply
a fun, fast, and intense 90-minute ride that's equal parts tension and
comic relief.

Rather than potentially spoil any of the details, I'll let you watch
the finer points of the plot unravel on screen. Multiple back-stories
are told via time flashbacks, so some of the events might get lost in
the translation if you're not paying close attention. What you need to
know is that the essence of the film rests in following Joseph
Gordon-Levitt's bike journey through the streets of Manhattan as he
attempts to deliver his envelope with a scene-stealing Michael Shannon
and an I-take-my-job-way-too-seriously bike cop hot on his tail.

You'll recoil and cringe as JGL weaves in and out of traffic, avoiding
vehicles and pedestrians alike. You'll laugh as the aforementioned bike
cop continually regroups and continues his quest. And you'll love to
hate Mr. Shannon as he deftly demonstrates his character's impulse
control issues.

I've always heard people say how good of an actor Michael Shannon is,
but I've never really seen him in anything. I will definitely seek out
more of his work after enjoying his performance in Premium Rush. His
hypocritical diatribe on how disgusted he is by the lowering of today's
standards had me laughing several minutes after he delivered it. I
loved this guy! 

I also enjoyed what I am branding the "alternate scenario cam" 
whenever JGL finds himself in a tight situation, the camera shows him
quickly calculating his possible routes and their potential outcomes,
many of which end in hilarity and disaster for either Mr. Gordon-Levitt
or an unsuspecting pedestrian.

Premium Rush keeps the pace tight and the audience engaged. The camera
work forces us right in the middle of the traffic and the blaring car
horns, allowing us to experience the tension both visibly and audibly.

The film's main drawback is its abundance of profanity and crass talk.
The worst offenders are one f-bomb and more than 10 uses of G-d**n.

Premium Rush never takes itself too seriously, and neither should you.
As long as you check your expectations at the theater door then I'm
confident the majority of you will find that this film  much like its
bike messenger protagonist- delivers.
<|_=00=_|>
On paper and from a financial standpoint, it doesn't make a whole lot
of sense that Premium Rush was made. It is a high speed action film
about bike messengers delivering packages set in New York. Not saying
that there is no potential for entertainment there, but it seems like
it would be down the list for green-lighting compared to fighting
robots and action heroes blowing half a city up. But somehow, Premium
Rush was given the go-ahead, landed some quality names in Joseph
Gordon-Levitt and Michael Shannon, and the film hit theaters.
Unfortunately, the thriller ended up being nothing more than a middle
of the road action film that is easily forgettable.

Gordon-Levitt stars as Wilee, an energetic bike messenger that lives by
the simple rules of riding like hell, only using a fixed gear/steel
framed bike, and never using brakes. One afternoon he is sent to
deliver an envelope by his girlfriend's roommate, Nima, but finds
himself in a fight with a crooked cop (Shannon) who wants the delivery.
Turns out, the envelope holds a receipt for a great deal of money that
Nima trusted Wilee to deliver. It also turns out that the crooked cop
is in a good deal of trouble with gambling debt and plans on stealing
the receipt to pay off his problems.

So the plot is nothing great; need to make a delivery, crooked cop
chasing you, can't trust the police. But what does the film have to
offer? Well, Gordon-Levitt and Shannon both play their characters well,
but there is not much too it. The characters are pretty one dimensional
and seem more like a payday gig than a role someone really wants to
take up. Perhaps they seem like better actors because Jamie Chung who
plays Nima is so bad. Every line that roles out of her mouth is forced
and she seems extremely uncomfortable on camera. Not only was this
extremely distracting, it made everyone around her worse, specifically
one scene in a bathroom between Nima and Wilee's girlfriend, Vanessa.
Maybe Dania Ramirez is pretty poor throughout the film, but her scenes
with Jamie Chung are particularly brutal.

To read the rest of the review (IMDb form too short) visit:
http://custodianfilmcritic.com/premium-rush/
<|_=00=_|>
Premium Rush is a commercial film that sticks to being a 'B' movie with
some A-movie assets - chiefly the actors Joseph Gordon-Levitt and
Michael Shannon as the hero and opposition - and David Koepp does a
very good job balancing those elements. It could have been just a
straight to video title, but it's smart about being a little movie
(that is, not quite as on the radar as a big summer tentpole), and has
a script that can hold its story and juggle a few elements with more
than just competency, that you can go for the ride without being
insulted. And yes, it isn't just hyperbole saying it's a 'ride'; here,
as in some TV shows (only here with better visual intentions than just
quick- adrenaline-fixes), we see with big visual effects the scenarios
our hero Wiley (yes, perhaps ironically named as he is really the
Roadrunner) navigates the streets, his main route, and then when he's
at a cross- walk and cars coming on all sides which of three paths he
could take and if he'll die or not or kill others.

Sure, most of us (those of us walking or driving in a city, such as New
York) don't like bike messengers, but it's in abstract or in the
all-too personal. Koepp's cleverness is to look at a bike messenger on
the street and go 'hmm, how about a movie about him and what he has to
do, and then what if we throw in a crooked cop and a mob element and a
woman wanting to reunite with her kid?' A lot of these elements on
their own (and perhaps still the woman with the kid) could be
under-cooked or just not very interesting. Altogether, they amount to
something, rather that the elements can connect through Michael
Shannon's cop Detective Monday (or "Officer Ackerman") who sets a lot
of this into motion through his comically inept gambling addiction and
inability to get money together - or a ticket from a bike messenger. 

Some of this may just seem like 'screenwriting 101', with pieces like
the woman with the son and the hero's conflicts (love interest, side-
opponent in another bike messenger, the latter I didn't care for as it
was too weak on its own and in the movie), but hey, in a first-level
class there can be good work done! It's not even a 'turn off your
brain' kind of suspense thriller either; Koepp has enough experience to
inject, along with his co-writer, really funny or witty dialog, solid
(albeit 'movie') character dynamics as people ride on their bikes and
can speak on their blue-tooth phones. It's so good when watching the
actors bicycling along, and some stunt doubles but who knows when they
really use them it's so well integrated, it almost slows the movie down
when they have to stop to fill in the spots of the story's quasi-
MacGuffin object in the envelope.

But mostly, it's the acting that carries it through. Gordon-Levitt is
an appealing lead, likable but has a tough attitude when he needs to,
and of course you got to go with him. But without Shannon, frankly, I
don't know if the movie would have been as successful, at least to the
level it's at now. He's such a convincingly kooky-looking villain,
brutal, nasty, but cartoonish in a big way (listen to his laugh, or
chuckle, and it's a touch of Chucky the doll or something!) Even in a
supposedly marginal Hollywood thrill-ride, Shannon brings his A-game.
<|_=00=_|>
Now this is how to make an action flick! A small one, mind you, but
it's one of the most fun pictures to come out this summer. Joseph
Gordon-Levitt stars as a bicycle messenger in Manhattan who lands the
unfortunate job of delivering a small slip of paper worth a ton of
money. Corrupt cop Michael Shannon, trying to pay off a Chinatown
gambling debt, gets wind of the item and attempts to relieve JGL of it.
Unfortunately for Shannon, JGL is a pretty darn fast rider and great
with stunts, and soon he has the help of his girlfriend (Dania
Ramirez), who is also a bicycle messenger. It's just a simple chase
movie, but it's perfectly edited and paced, with well-timed jumps back
in time to explain the situation. The actors are all fine (I also
really liked JGL's professional and romantic rival, Wole Parks), but
Shannon really steals the show. This is the perfect place for his style
of menace. Well worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>
I used to own a bike..then I bought a car..anyway. Basically guy on
bike versus bad guy in car. With the whole love story slash you could a
been somebody thrown in. I really enjoyed this movie. It's definitely
leaving the brain at the door, but in a nice way. There are no major
action scenes. Acting, storyline, action, ending..I literally can't
fault any of this. The director kept it very realistic; with a hint
of... dare I say eighties ..we can do it nostalgia.

For the movie buffs I'd say, Gleaming the cube mixed with Taxi
(original french version..we all known US version was rubbish).
Adrenalin sports guy takes on the system. Watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
I often wondered what the difference between my bike and the newer ones
are. I got my bike in 1988, it cost a bit of money but it has lasted
24years and still looks brand new. When I looked in detail what I saw
amazed me. First of all the steel tubes are not just sawed and welded
together, there are special sleeves that are fitted onto the tubes and
then the tubes are welded to the sleeves, vastly increasing the
strength. Whoever wrote the script for this movie knew about bikes.

I was thrilled throughout the whole movie. The first thing I liked was
the character of Wilee as portrayed by Joseph Gordon-Levitt. It gives
me faith that there are still people with integrity that don't drink
all KoolAid we are force fed. Wilee is one of them, and so is his
girlfriend Vanessa, another super cyclist. In fact so is the whole crew
at the bike delivery company. The acting is great, Michael Shannon is
the perfect d..bag! The chase scenes were cliff hangers, what I loved
the most were the stops that Wilee made by swinging the bike to one
side and skidding sideways...really cool!

The scenario with the money and smuggling the child from China was well
researched. Really a tightly woven well executed movie.
<|_=00=_|>
When all's said and done, neither Gordon-Levitt nor Michael Shannon
will point to this as their best work. Fortunately for the viewer, that
doesn't matter in the slightest.

Premium Rush is exactly as advertised. A chase movie that's high on
adrenaline, with a cast that blend well together. Whilst the story is
entirely forgettable, there's enough to catch the eye that it's easy to
overlook that. The rush hour traffic in New York City offers up a
plethora of near misses, brutal impacts and plenty of colour.

The supporting cast don't detract from Gordon-Levitt's and Shannon's
spotlight, with Wolé Parks's hyper competitive Manny a particular
highlight. The action is diverse and fast paced, with no set pieces
feeling gratuitous or overlong.

The storytelling structure is perfectly fine. There's some contemporary
visuals including route planning graphics and slow motion escape paths,
which further the excitement.

The good guy's and bad guy's are clearly defined, with Shannon's
desperate detective appropriately compelling. A solid 6/10 for me, and
I struggle to picture an audience who wouldn't get at least a few kicks
out of this.
<|_=00=_|>
I have just watched 'Premium Rush' and I have to say I'm very impressed
with it. This isn't your huge blockbuster but it is something different
and keeps you on the edge of your seat.

I liked the plot and it was very clever how we saw flashbacks of
various things, twists and turns, going in back in time and seeing a
different perspective. This really linked the film together nicely.

The action is just thrilling and something different. The chases are
fast paced and frantic, it is absolute chaos on the roads. There is
some great stunts, its far fetched but its crazily fast. Definitely a
film for all the adrenaline junkies out there.

One part of the film that I really liked was, when Wilee was in danger
of potentially crashing the bicycle, we see how his mind works. We see
3 potential routes he can take to avoid injury so he can decide the
best way to go. Some of these parts are cleverly thought out and also
quite funny in parts.

The acting was up to scratch, there was a few characters who added
something different. Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Dania Ramirez played a
very likable pair.

Overall this is a good action thriller type film, suspense builds and
the movie is just fast paced. I really enjoyed it, much better than
expected. Would recommend it to anyone and I would certainly watch it
again. 85 minutes of carnage.

9/10.
