
About 300 years after the publication of the first collected works of
Shakespeare, the so-called First Folio (1623), a schoolmaster named J.
Thomas Looney (pronounced "loanee") facilitated his students in
readings of the Shakespeare plays, particularly "the Merchant of
Venice". Over the years while watching the plays, hearing their
rhetoric, and absorbing this remarkable voice whose Elizabethan
presence is still revered and studied today, Looney became convinced
the man from Stratford who is attributed to having written the plays
(the Orthodox View), was not the true author. He came to believe the
name "William Shakespeare" which appeared on two published poems, the
later quartos and the First Folio was in reality a pseudonym for
someone else, possibly a nobleman. Previously, those who questioned the
Orthodox View, sometimes called Anti-Stratfordians, had proposed others
of the Elizebethan Age, such as Sir Francis Bacon and Christopher
Marlowe, but Looney was convinced the true author was someone never
before put forth since Shakespearian scholarship began in the 18th
century. Shakespeare has and still does remain shrouded in mystery. 

Because Shakespeare biographical detail has been sketchy at best,
Looney developed a profile similar to those used by detectives to paint
a picture of his candidate, based on elements in the plays. He
determined the writer was a nobleman, a Falconer, possibly sympathetic
to the Lancastrian side of the Wars of the Roses, and someone who loved
Italy and Italian culture. And, most important of all, that he was a
poet who possibly had written poems and/or plays under his own name
before going under the name of William Shakespeare. After finding a
number of primary sources at the British Library, he came up with his
findings. Looney proposed a somewhat forgotten nobleman named Edward de
Vere, the 17th Earl of Oxford, as being the true identity of the
poet/playwright William Shakespeare in a book called simply
"Shakespeare Identified".

"Anonymous" is a film based on Looney's original notion that Edward de
Vere, the 17th Earl of Oxford, penned the plays which would become the
greatest literary canon of the English language. The events surrounding
the plays, their performances, Oxford's conscious willingness to stay
behind the scenes, and the attribution of the plays to the man from
Stratford, a businessman who had little or no experience in theatre,
are all dramatized in a period film which takes you back to the world
of the Elizabethan Stage. One of the best aspects of "Anonymous" is how
it relates the plays to political rhetoric of the period. In recent
years, Shakespearian scholars have proposed that many figures of the
Elizabethan Court were satirized in the plays, such as William Cecil
and his son Robert Cecil. The links between the plays and contemporary
politics are brought to the fore much more directly than in
"Shakespeare in Love".

Character actor Rhys Ifans offers an Oscar-caliber performance as the
man who some believe was the real Shakespeare. Ifans finds that
delicate balance between the remarkable artist and the troubled
nobleman who could not reconcile the two worlds of his life. If
Shakespeare was in fact a nobleman who went under a pseudonym, many of
the events portrayed in "Anonymous" are plausible. Unlike today,
playwrights and poets lived on the periphery of society, and a nobleman
of the rank of Oxford writing plays containing charged political
rhetoric would have been scandalous, hence the Shakespeare-Oxford
theory.

The hero of the movie is actually his colleague Ben Johnson, the
Elizabethan playwright who has always dwelt under the shadow of
Shakespeare, especially in modern times. Johnson would have been the
greatest playwright of his age if Shakespeare had not been writing. In
this story, he becomes the guardian of the Shakespeare plays, and
supposedly the man who saves the canon for posterity. Johnson in fact
wrote the preface to the First Folio of 1623. If there had been a
cover-up of Shakespeare's true identity, Johnson would have known.

While the film bases many of its embellishments on facts known about
Edward de Vere, the film does take a few rather implausible historical
licenses, not unlike Amadeus which appeared about 25 years ago. Edward
de Vere may have flirted with Queen Elizabeth when he was younger, but
whether they bore a child does seem quite fantastic. Later in the film,
an extraordinary truth about Oxford's own heritage is revealed.
However, films have to tell a story, and some licenses are made in
order the story remain interesting and compelling. Shakespeare in many
of his plays bent history to fulfill his dramatic goals and theatrical
visions.

Many Shakespeare enthusiasts not only dismiss the Oxfordian argument
but do not approve of the subject altogether. Some Stratfordians' view
is that there is no "authorship question" and that any attempt to
discredit the man from Stratford does a disservice to Shakespare. I
think "Anonymous" is not so much about changing minds but about
bringing the question out into the open. Regardless on which side of
the fence you may be, there are a lot of questions concerning the life
of Shakespeare. Answers to mundane questions, such as primary sources
concerning his composing, are strangely absent. No one seems to have
mentioned Stratford being any kind of a poet, playwright or actor in
Stratford. However, as shown in the film, primary source evidence
survives which speaks of Edward de Vere as an adolescent putting on a
short play for the young Queen Elizabeth.

So the film brings us back to the fundamental question: did Oxford
write the Shakespeare Canon or was it the man from Stratford? Primary
source evidence is sparse, and documents which could have shed light on
this problem may have perished in the Great Fire of London in 1666. In
short, we may never know. But Oxford's star is on the rise, and in
years to come, this may be the first film to acknowledge there is
indeed a question. Whether it has been answered is up to each viewer.
<|_=00=_|>
The Earl of Oxford (Rhys Ifans) is a talented playwright whose position
forces him to publicly abandon his endeavors. He seeks to sign over his
plays and sonnets to Ben Johnson (Sebastian Armesto), but that's easier
said than done. When William Shakespeare takes credit (Rafe Spall),
that's the least of concerns as the words of Edward affect the
political climate.

Rhys Ifans is an unrecognizable powerhouse, and though the rest of the
cast fairs well, he shines. As does director Roland Emmerich, who uses
every trick at his disposal to make a highly sophisticated drama
littered with elaborate costumes and set decoration to be admired. 

The theatre experience is very well represented in Anonymous, with the
narrator barely making the curtain. Believe it or not but this does
actually happen and there are actors who specialize in. The workings of
the theatre coincide with the events described and eventually merge. In
the time of Edward, the Globe is shown with spectacular accuracy and
the familiar faces of the troupe appear across plays.

The future of England is put at stake as the insight into Edward's
inspiration is penned on a relationship with Queen Elizabeth (Vanessa
Redgrave and in younger form Joely Richardson). These secrets showcase
the power of words to win over love and country. 

Is it cheating to inject stolen verse into a screenplay? To some extent
yes. We're talking about a movie that lifts words, then says they came
from a thief. A bit of a paradox if anything. Similarly, it would be
silly for J.J. Abrams to direct a movie that's filled with scenes from
every Steven Spielberg film, yet that happened with Super 8.

If Anonymous has a fault, it would be in jerking around the audience.
The movie starts with an inventive use of a framing device, and quite
appropriately in a theatre. We go back and Ben Johnson is jailed, only
for us to go back 5 years to see him getting jailed. Then we go back
another 40 and when we next see Johnson he's being set free. So in
which time is he released? Thankfully Anonymous is long enough to allow
an audience to gain bearings.

Anonymous is Emmerich's masterpiece, a radical far from his usual
environmental apocalypse works. There could be a stigma surrounding the
subject, which will be viewed as blasphemy by many. I'd like to
reassure you that most popular cinema is an act of fiction. Shakespeare
isn't available to rebut, and most moviegoers are not concerned with
historical accuracy so long as the story is compelling and filled with
drama, which Anonymous delivers.
<|_=00=_|>
First thing to point out. When going to watch this movie I had no
intention whatsoever to judge it on its historical accuracy. I simply
did not and do not care. If you want a documentary on Elizabethan times
then clearly you shouldn't be watching this particular film.

If, on the other hand, you want a perfectly entertaining and
interesting way to spend a couple of hours then you should go and see
it. I thought the story was engaging and original (if, like myself,
you're not a pretentious academic). The acting was, on the whole, very
accomplished. In particular, I thought Rhys Ifans gave a brilliant
performance as De Vere and was perfect for the role. I did find Rafe
Spall pretty annoying as Shakespeare, but perhaps I should give him the
benefit of the doubt as this was probably the aim of the character.

With regards to the historical rewrite then surely if people are
interested in what 'Anonymous' suggests they'll try to find out more
about the subject in order to make their own mind up. Nothing wrong
with that. And those taking Hollywood's version of history at face
value are pretty much beyond help anyway.

Certainly one of the most memorable movies i've seen (for the right
reasons) this year.
<|_=00=_|>
"I, once gone, to all the world must die."  William Shakespeare,
Sonnet #81 

Actor George Dillon has said, "The purpose of drama is to challenge
people and to make people see things slightly differently." The
challenge is laid down in stunning fashion by German director Roland
Emmerich in his latest work, Anonymous, one of the best films of the
year. Focusing on two of the most important events of the Elizabethan
age: the Essex Rebellion of 1601 and the succession to the throne of
Queen Elizabeth I, the film supports the premise that Edward de Vere,
the 17th Earl of Oxford, a prominent aristocrat and court insider, was
the real author of the works attributed to William Shakespeare, plays
and poems of romance, tragic political intrigue, and comedy that
contain such a compelling beauty and searing intensity that, after 400
years, still reach directly into our hearts and remain there forever.

Described as a "political thriller", Anonymous creates an atmosphere of
foreboding and intrigue that, like many films of the genre, begins with
a jumble of names, images, and flashbacks that challenge us to sort it
all out. We are not certain of anything, but Emmerich invites us, in
the words of Diane Ackerman "to groom our curiosity like a
high-spirited thoroughbred, climb aboard, and gallop over the thick,
sunstruck hills." Steering us through the maze of Tudor history, the
film makes credible the startling events of the time, providing an
authentic recreation of London in the 16th century with its crowded
theaters and raucous audience, cluttered streets, and court royalty
decked out in fine jewels.

Though some may point out historical inaccuracies in the film,
Emmerich, citing Shakespeare in Love as an example, says that the film
contains an "emotional truth" rather than a literal one because "the
drama is the primary concern." He need not have had concern on that
aspect. Through Emmerich's direction, the writing of John Orloff, the
cinematography of Anna Foerster, and the superlative performance of an
all British cast including Oscar-worthy performances by Vanessa
Redgrave as Queen Elizabeth I and Rhys Ifans as Oxford, Anonymous
succeeds both as an authentic drama and a plausible explanation for
many of the problems surrounding the authorship question. While the
film may lack a certain depth of characterization, it more than makes
up for it with style, spectacle, and an involving story.

To some, the film may be skating on narrative thin ice, Emmerich,
however, told an interviewer that "if we provoke, let's provoke all the
way," and provoke he does. According to Anonymous, de Vere, in addition
to being Shakespeare, was also the illegitimate son of the Queen and,
in 1573, the father of a son with Elizabeth, Henry Wriothesley, the 3rd
Earl of Southampton (Xavier Samuel). Emmerich handles the subject of
incest with great taste, with neither the "Virgin Queen" nor Oxford
knowing the truth until close to the end of their lives. After a brief
prologue by actor Sir Derek Jacobi, the film begins with the arrest of
playwright Ben Jonson (Sebastian Armento) by faceless men in knight's
armor in the middle of a theatrical performance.

The author of the play is a well-known writer who, though he is soon
released, is taken to the Tower and accused of sedition and slandering
the State by the mere act of authoring a play, the mark of a
totalitarian society reflecting a growing disdain for the arts. The
film then flashes back five years, then forty years, as we become
acquainted with the young Earl of Oxford (Jamie Campbell Bower), taught
by highly educated tutors with access to a vast library in the home of
William Cecil (David Thewlis), where he was brought up as a ward of the
court after his father's death. We also witness his marriage to a
teenage Anne Cecil (Amy Kwolek), daughter of William, a marriage that
never produced any lasting satisfaction for either party.

As we return to present time, Oxford is forced to hide his identity
because of the biting satire of his plays that lampoon some of the more
prominent members of the court, and also as a result of a political
arrangement that becomes clearer later in the film. His initial choice
to front for him is the same Ben Jonson but Jonson refuses, passing the
mantle to Will Shakespeare (Rafe Spall), an actor for the Lord
Chamberlain's Men who seizes the opportunity. In a superbly comic
performance, Spall portrays Will as an illiterate money-grubber who can
barely speak coherently but is willing to sell his name to Oxford at a
premium cost. The heart of the plot, however, focuses on the attempt to
seize power from Cecil's son Robert, an episode that is known to
history as The Essex Rebellion of 1601.

This insurrection, led by Robert Devereaux, the Second Earl of Essex
(Sam Reid) results in his beheading and the imprisonment of Southampton
who is sent to the Tower awaiting certain death. Oxford's attempt to
persuade Elizabeth to save their son results in a political deal that
makes us privy to why Oxford was never able to reveal his authorship of
the Shakespeare canon. While some critics may proclaim the movie a
moment of singularity that indicates the end of the world as we know it
(even before 2012), Anonymous may have the opposite effect, opening the
subject to a wider audience who may be able to view Shakespeare and his
times from a totally new perspective.

In Robert Heinlein's "Stranger in a Strange Land," Jubal said we're
prisoners of our early indoctrinations, "for it is hard, very nearly
impossible, to shake off one's earliest training." If my intuition is
correct, the prison gates will soon be swinging wide open, and the
shaking will begin in earnest. As Victor Hugo said, "Nothing is more
powerful than an idea whose time has come."
<|_=00=_|>
These days, the term "Anonymous" conjures up visions of unknown
activists trying to influence history from the wings. They write
things, and that writing changes society. In his film of the same name,
director Roland Emmerich seems to be suggesting that this idea is not
exactly new, and that the plays and poems attributed to William
Shakespeare were essentially motivated by the same desire. He takes the
age-old mystery of "Who really wrote Shakespeare's plays?" and turns it
into a political thriller.

If it's difficult for you to imagine a historical costume drama done by
the director of "Universal Soldier," "Stargate," "Independence Day,"
"Godzilla," "The Day After Tomorrow" and "2012," you are not alone. :-)
I suspected that the screenplay (by John Orloff) came first, and that
Emmerich discovered it and became enamored of it, and a quick trip to
the IMDb verifies that this intuition was correct. It also informs me
that Emmerich, taking advantage of the money he made on the previous
films, paid for this whole movie out of his own pocket, so that he
could have full control of the film, without interference from any
studio. It shows.

It's not a bad movie at all. And this is something I never thought I'd
find myself saying about a Roland Emmerich movie. The cast is simply to
die for: Vanessa Redgrave as Queen Elizabeth the elder; her daughter
Joely Richardson as Elizabeth the younger; Rafe Spall as Shakespeare (a
talentless clod of an actor); Sebastian Arnesto as Ben Johnson (a
talented playwright, but not even in the same galaxy of greatness as
the author of Shakespeare's plays); David Thewlis as William Cecil;
Edward Hogg as Robert Cecil; Derek Jacobi doing the prologue; Jaime
Campbell Bower (from "Camelot") as the younger Edward de Vere, 17th
Earl of Oxford; and Rhys Ifans as the older Edward de Vere, and the
real author of Shakespeare's work.

As presented, the plot is not at all a scholarly argument for the Earl
of Oxford's authorship of these plays. It is instead a clever
reimagining of historical events (some treated as loosely as
Shakespeare himself treated actual history) to turn the answer to the
mystery that scholars argue about into a taut political thriller. In
Orloff's/Emmerich's vision, Edward de Vere wrote the plays and
published them under someone else's name for no less a reason that to
foment revolution, change the course of history, and determine the next
king of England.

And damnit, that reimagining kinda worked for me. The sets and costumes
are pitch perfect, the performances are good, and the potential is
there for a good time to be had by all. Like anything related to
Shakespeare, the more you know about him and his work, the better this
film will be for you. There are so many asides and in-jokes that I
cannot begin to go into them. Orloff really did his research. Except
for the part about Edward de Vere having died before at least 10 of
Shakespeare's plays were written, that is. But that's just a nitpick,
and should not stand in the way of writing a good drama. Those kinds of
historical nitpicks did not deter Shakespeare, and they don't deter
Orloff and Emmerich. All of them understand that "The play's the
thing," and that history doesn't mean diddleysquat compared to that.
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone in our theater was so mesmerized by this many-layered plot
that no one even got up to go the bathroom. My head was spinning a bit,
trying to keep up with who was related to whom, but I loved every
minute of it.

And I know the cast is highly pedigreed because I recognized some of
the actors in the plays from a live performance of Shakespeare the Old
Globe Theater troupe gave at UCLA a few years ago while the Old Globe
was being renovated. Annette Bening was in the audience that night, so
it was a pretty cool evening all around.

After the movie I was at a restaurant next to the theater and I heard a
woman say, "I just saw that Shakespeare movie and I'm in a daze."

Go see it and you will be, too. I think I need to see it a few more
times to pick up all the fascinating details.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. While it is clear that writer John
Orloff and director Roland Emmerich believe that Edward De Vere, The
Earl of Oxford, and not Will Shakespeare, wrote the infamous and iconic
plays we have celebrated for 400 years, my advice is to watch this as a
Hollywood movie and not a docu-drama. Hollywood is at its best when
exaggerating, twisting and dramatizing historic events and figures.

You may be an expert on Shakespeare and even Elizabethan history, but
whether you are or whether you are not, my guess is that you will find
this to be interesting and thought-provoking. You may agree with the
idea that Shakespeare was not the prolific and talented author, but
this movie provides one possible alternative ... with no scientific
proof or actual documentation. We see Rhys Ifans and Jamie Campbell
Bower portray Edward De Vere as the older and younger version
respectively. Both capture his passion for writing and frustration at
being unable to live the life for which he was born.

Vanessa Redgrave and her real life daughter Joely Richardson portray
Queen Elizabeth at the older and younger stages, and we certainly get a
distinctive impression of how "the Virgin Queen" may have been
mis-labeled as much as any figure in history. Many lovers and
illegitimate children are mentioned and the web of secrecy would have
been exhausting, given the other responsibilities of her position.

Rafe Spall portrays Will Shakespeare as what one might call The Village
Idiot. The buffoonery we see from this man is an extreme that weakens
the case for De Vere, rather than strengthen it. Though talented writer
Ben Jonson (Sebastian Armesto) was De Vere's first choice, the lack of
morals by the illiterate actor Shakespeare allows him to seize a
capitalistic opportunity and soak up the audience love.

The best part of the film is the realistic look and feel of the
streets, the Globe Theater and costumes. Rhys Ifans is exceptional in
the role of De Vere, and the story itself plays out much like one of
Shakespeare's plays. The downside is, I believe most will find the
multitude of characters and time-lines and sub-plots to be quite
confusing at times. Don't take a bathroom break or you'll miss new
babies being born and upheavals being planned.
<|_=00=_|>
Roland Emmerich's Anonymous addresses the question of Shakespeare's
identity in this tale of Edward de Vere and his actions in the court of
Queen Elizabeth. The film starts a prologue by the eminent
Shakespearean actor Derek Jacobi, and then leads us into a scene with
Ben Johnson running about London, fleeing from the knights of Robert
Cecil while carrying the Complete Works. From there we flash back five
years to the first time Johnson was arrested for authoring a
"seditious" play, while de Vere, Christopher Marlowe and other
luminaries of the London dramatic scene watched. From there, a second
flashback of another 40 years sends us to watch de Vere's youth and his
first encounters with the Cecils and with Queen Elizabeth. 

Throughout the film we follow three periods of time: de Vere's youth
and his growing love for the Queen; the peak of the Shakespearean arc
in London, when de Vere was feeding plays to Shakespeare and involving
himself in intrigues of London surrounding the question of Elizabeth's
heir; and to a much lesser extent, the actions of Johnson and Cecil in
the aftermath of the deaths of Elizabeth and de Vere, and the
coronation of King James I. Some have complained that the various
swings from one time line to another are confusing, but I found it easy
to differentiate between young Edward and young Elizabeth and their
much older counterparts. 

The main body of the film centers around the contest between de Vere's
actions to place the Earl of Essex in the line of succession, and the
competing interests of the Cecils (first William, then Robert) to steer
the throne to King James of Scotland. Thankfully for the viewer, it is
easy to differentiate between the two camps, as Essex and his entourage
are all fair-haired, while James and the Cecils are dark-haired. 

There will be controversy about this film due to the great liberties it
takes with historical facts. John Orloff's screenplay ranges from facts
well established in the historical record to some points that are
debated by experts with varying points of view and interpretations, to
some fictions that are introduced and can only be viewed as flatly
false. Who wrote the plays and poems we attribute to Shakespeare? This
is at least a topic for debate. Who killed Christopher Marlowe? This
film provides an extremely unlikely answer to this question. Was
Elizabeth truly a "Virgin Queen"? A modern viewer might think this to
be unlikely (especially considering who her father was) but the number
and variety of her children suggested by the film seems extremely
unlikely. And then there are facts not in dispute at all that are
contradicted by the film (such as the fact that Edward de Vere survived
his first wife Anne Cecil de Vere and indeed remarried). 

It is important, then, to understand that this film is a work of
fiction and is not presenting what it believes to be the literal truth
regarding the authorship of Shakespeare's plays. With that in mind, it
comes out well in comparison to the feather-light Shakespeare in Love.
The production values of the film are tremendous. The producers have
gone to great efforts to replicate Elizabethan London, with its
architecture and much and the wooden planks used in place of modern
sidewalks. The acting is tremendous, especially Rhys Ifans as de Vere
and Vanessa Redgrave as Elizabeth. 

I recommend this film highly, not as a serious treatment of the
authorship question, but as an entertaining piece of historical
fiction. It might have been interesting to see a film that was a more
serious treatment of the Oxfordian point-of-view, but such a film might
well have been fairly boring in comparison.
<|_=00=_|>
Was William Shakespeare a front for an aristocrat who did not want his
name revealed as the author? This movie is about political intrigue and
how theater gets caught up in a larger struggle for power. The movie
offers an interesting and controversial portrayal of Queen Elizabeth I
and a glimpse of life in England at the beginning of the seventeenth
century. The printing press was becoming a political weapon and those
who published could influence the public, maybe to the point of
rebellion. Hence, the need of the government to control what was being
performed on stage. The stage served the same function of television
does today. It was the medium of mass entertainment, which made the
playwright a critical player in the politics of the time. Now, if
Shakespeare was a front, then the question is: who wrote all these
plays? Maybe it doesn't matter who actually wrote the plays but then
again, maybe it does matter because by knowing the author, this may
lead to new interpretations of the plays. Maybe these plays were
political polemics produced under the guise of historical drama.
Whatever the case, one thing is for certain: these plays made an impact
on society that continues to reverberate to this day.

One other point. This movie is a work of fiction and so if it is loose
with certain historical facts, so what? This movie is not a
documentary. Rather, it is a fictional historical drama that revolves
around a controversial and even shocking plot. Whether Shakespeare is
the actual author of the works attributed to him is not the point. That
is a matter for debate. What is the point is whether the movie works as
a movie. The story is complex, yet the movie manages to engage the
audience through strong acting and by presenting a story crammed with
political intrigue. Who can say for certain what was going on in
England 500 years ago? It is all a matter for speculation, based upon
the available historical material, all of which is subject to
interpretation. The idea of English writers bickering and fighting over
the authorship of plays may seem trite and far fetched, but the
conflict makes for good drama, even if it is pure fiction.
<|_=00=_|>
The good parts: The cinematography, acting, costumes, sets and screen
writing were magnificent. The film is stunningly beautiful to watch in
every way. Vanessa Redgrave as Elizabeth I, Rafe Spall as Shakespeare
and Edward Hogg as Robert Cecil steal the show, but the Edward de Vere,
Christopher Marlowe and Ben Johnson characters are also quite good. The
basic premise of an authorship mystery involving Ben Johnson, Edward de
Vere and William Shakespeare was handled brilliantly by screen writer
John Orloff, who gets an A+ in my book on making the premise
believable.

Some nit-picks: The whole subplot involving the succession to the crown
was a bit tough to believe. I wanted less of that and more background
to the Shakespeare vs. de Vere storyline, especially more about what
would have inspired de Vere to write the poems and plays in the first
place. I believe it is likely quite difficult to tell a story this
complex in a 2 hour movie and have sufficient character development,
and it actually would have worked much better as an HBO mini-series.
Some minor editing changes would have made the movie a lot more
accessible to the general public. I have detailed knowledge of the era,
and even some of the more arcane points the movie covers, but even I
found it a bit confusing at times.

The first surprise: I saw this movie a second time (as I was a bit
confused the first time around) and it made perfect sense on the second
viewing. Any and all confusion was gone, and I was able to enjoy and
appreciate the film in a much deeper way.

The part professors will hate: In true Hollywood style (just like
Shakespeare in Love) the story has fantasy elements, certain historical
figures in the wrong place at the wrong time, some factual revisions
and a lot of compression of time (events which occurred over 13 years
compressed into about 1). English professors will HATE this and
probably pan the movie for it.

More surprises: 1) There is a LOT of scenes from Shakespeare plays
shown in the movie, and Roland Emmerich (plus Mark Rylance perhaps ?)
does a great job directing these scenes...who knew ? 2) You don't have
to be a believer in the basic premise regarding the authorship to enjoy
this movie as its lush camera-work and truly great (perhaps even "Oscar
worthy") acting combined with a solid screenplay make this a delightful
film despite some historical oddities.

My conclusion: This could well become a cult classic. If you come with
an open mind, enjoy Shakespeare, and appreciate great acting &
stupendous cinematography, you MUST see this movie. On the other hand,
if you are an English professor, or the type of pedant who hates
Hollywood treatments of historical topics, you will probably want to
stay home.
