
This movie is a shameful waste of $70,000,000. It's also an unusual
waste of a talent like Jennifer Connely.

I can't even begin to tell you where this movie goes wrong, because it
never seemed to go right. For the first 30 minutes of the movie, there
is nothing remotely funny, original or entertaining. I gave it the
benefit of the doubt, telling myself "ok, Ron Howard is just setting up
the premise. It will get better." But it doesn't. Not a bit.

I had to repeatedly resist the urge to take out my phone and play Skee
Ball. I should have, however, given in to the temptation to leave the
theatre and demand my money back.

PS to the studio - don't market a film as a comedy if its not remotely
funny. It does nothing to enhance your already tarnished reputation.
(Clearly you are still pumping out left over crap from 2010)
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. On average, I see two new releases
per week. Selections are based on subject matter, cast, director, and
most often, the trailer. My most recent two viewings were BLUE
VALENTINE and SOMEWHERE, both somber to say the least. So a
light-hearted buddy flick with Vince Vaughn and Kevin James, and
directed by Ron Howard, seemed like just the right change of pace.

Unfortunately, the actual film has little resemblance to the film
advertised in the trailer. Sure the comedy scenes are present: Vince
gives an acidic toast, Kevin James does his fat-man dance, and Channing
Tatum plays an off-center tattooed boy toy with a loaded gun and dead
fish. Where the fraud comes in is with the rest of the film. This is a
pretty dark, weighty relationship movie that poses quite the moral
dilemma (hence the title) for Vince. Should he tell his best friend and
business partner that his wife is cheating on him? Rather than a few
rounds of funny scenes with Vaughn trying to get it right, we get
"deep" emotional wrangling of a poor guy who just doesn't know the best
solution. Along the way he hurts many people he likes, and a few he
doesn't. Please don't take this wrong, I am fully onboard with dramas
being mixed with comedy. In fact, Ron Howard has provided us with one
of the best examples of this ... PARENTHOOD. However, this is nowhere
near that level, and in fact, misses the mark in both comedy and drama.

I spent much of the movie trying to decide who was most frightening,
Winona Ryder or Karen Carpenter. What?? Oh wait, I meant Winona Ryder
or Jennifer Connelly. Too soon? Come on, she died in 1983. The point is
Ms. Ryder carries forth with her BLACK SWAN look and Ms. Connelly
evidently hasn't had solid food for a dozen years. Queen Latifah does
her best to bring some energy to the film, but her character only has
about 3-4 scenes. It's always nice to see how Ron Howard works in his
brother Clint and his father Rance ... thereby keeping their actor's
guild cards current.

There really was a good idea here, but the comedy and drama just
weren't meshed well. And Kevin James as a genius engineer? Seems a
stretch from Mall Cop! Ron Howard has some classic movies to his name.
Some funny ones like NIGHT SHIFT, and some dramatic ones like A
BEAUTIFUL MIND and APOLLO 13. Unfortunately, this one falls flat and
really provides little entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
I came to this movie with the lowest expectations. Never been a fan of
Vince Vaughn and I knew the reviews were not kind to this film.
However, this is a film that while you won't be laughing your ass off
during the whole movie, it provides a few good laughters and it also
has a decent story to tell. The story is simple yet it keeps you
questioning yourself... what would YOU do if you caught your best
friends wife cheating? Let me say, it does get childish at times and
yes it might drag on a bit but it's not horrible by any means.

It's a kind of romantic comedy that can be enjoyed equally by men and
women and let's just say the Bromance that is at the core of it is
quite engaging. I'd say don't listen to the reviews. True, this may not
be a fresh comedy nor a classic but it is well acted and it tries to
avoid being cheesy, even though it may very well be at some points.
<|_=00=_|>
Ronny and Nick have been best friends since college. The two are
partners in their own auto design firm; their big dream comes true when
they land a big deal with Chrysler. Nick has found a way to make an
electric car sound and feel like a muscle car. Ronny's life has now
turned for the worst when he catches Nick's wife cheating with another
man. So does he tell his best friend about the other man, or should he
wait until the Chrysler presentation is over. Vince Vaughn's character
over shot itself. It was just too much Vince. Jennifer Connelly
gorgeous as usual. You caught your best friend's wife cheating, but to
stretch this topic for a movie for a 1 hr. 58 min was just way to long.
Not enough funny parts to compensate for the boring slow pace of the
film. Constant yada yada's. Not one of Ron Howard's best films. Soft 3
stars out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
I had the bad fortune of seeing this picture at a sneak preview in
Frankfurt and, after suffering during the whole time I watched it, I
think that I've earned the right to write a review and warn you all: be
careful, do not be fooled by the names in the cast or even by the fact
that this film is directed by Ron Howard (who has made a couple of good
films).

I will tell you whats wrong with the movie:

1. The characters do stupid decisions which make you feel detached with
the story, almost all the time. 2. This would not have been a problem,
if the movie was a light comedy, which is what you may think before you
see the film, but for some reason, the filmmakers did not seem to
decide if they wanted to make a comedy or a bad drama. Most comedy
parts are fine, but the dramatic parts really make the whole comedy
feel go to waste. 3. The dramaturgy is bad: The story is full of
clich√©s to the point, that in the end it had 4 happy endings, just to
make sure any idiot would get that it ended well. 4. The -really cheap-
product placement... I counted at least 4. For the price you pay to see
a film, and counting the fact that you normally have to sit through at
least 15 minutes of advertising before the film starts, this is a bit
insulting.

I gave it 2 stars, because there was a good fight scene and maybe one
or two funny things.

If you think that you are not a dumb a person, then you do not have to
see this film. It will make you mad.
<|_=00=_|>
OK..OK..it wasn't 'awful', but it wasn't OH MY GAWD this is great
either. The Dilemma is presented as a conflict that Vince Vaughn has
when he sees his best friend and business partner's wife having an
affair. Coulda , shoulda, woulda been a different movie had the
following happened: 1. Winonna Ryder...isn't in the movie 2. Kevin
James ..had more comedy rather than 'engineering' skills 3. Winonna and
Kevin were 2 different actors that were the married couple in this
flick AND, 4. they stuck to the storyline and stopped adding countless
subplots that have no impact on the movie or the comedy or the acting.

This movie had a lot of potential, it just didn't produce it.

Vince and Jennifer were acceptable as an unwed committed couple but
there wasn't enough balance between comedy and drama. I went into this
expecting comedy and got more drama. It just wasn't Vince's best work,
nor was it Ron's. 

Even the 'other man' (who's name escapes me) was just too far fetched
to wrap my mind around in character. He was over he top. If he was like
the guy from the Richard Gere, Dianne Lane movie, then it'd be more
believable.

I'm just not sure what I watched tonight. Vince had his typically
banter and rhetoric in some scenes, but the movie was just too heavy
and too over the top with story lines for me to count...or to
recommend.

I also didn't like Queen L in this...she overacted her scenes and her
character just didn't seem to fit in enough to make it worth her
paycheck. This is the same actress that got the Oscar nod for
Chicago...completely overacting in this movie. 

I'd definitely wait for the DVD..as a rental. You will only want to see
it once..
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie with an open mind. I didn't think it would be
the greatest movie ever made, but at the same time I knew it was
directed by Ron Howard, who has made some outstanding movies. The movie
is not as funny as I thought it would be, but in the end that was o.k.
to me. Most people probably went to see it with the mindset that it was
going to be a mindless laugh-fest because of the previews and the stars
Vince Vaughn and Kevin James. This is not the case. In my opinion Vince
Vaughn has one of his better performances in this film. Kevin James did
the most he could with his character, but in the end fell flat. I think
that if you watch this movie without any expectations you'll end up
enjoying it. Final verdict - not great, but not a waste of time either.
<|_=00=_|>
Ronny (Vince Vaughan) unwittingly witnesses Geneva (Winona Ryder), the
wife of his best friend and business partner Nick (Kevin James) having
a clandestine romantic encounter with Zip (Channing Tatum). The
eponymous dilemma is what should he do? Should he do nothing, speak to
Geneva, or Zip,, or tell his friend Nick? This dilemma is compounded by
various factors - they are under time pressure at work (not that he
seems to do any - Nick does it all), he had a one night stand with
Geneva before she and Nick got together, he is under pressure to
propose to girlfriend Beth (Jennifer Connelly), and everyone is
concerned that his odd behaviour means that he has reverted to his
gambling habit of a couple of years ago.

I was puzzled. Director Ron Howard has made some pretty heavyweight
movies over the years, but they haven't included comedies since his
early days. You'd think that, with all those years in Happy Days, he'd
have a good grasp of comedy. Yet this movie has virtually no laughs at
all despite the fact that the trailer strongly sells it as a comedy. It
is not a comedy, and every time it tries to be, it falls flat on its
face (Vaughan's speech at the anniversary dinner, clearly intended to
generate the comedy of embarrassment, merely embarrasses). As a comedy,
the film is a total failure. And Vaughan's performance is one-note,
depressingly identical to the performances he has given in his last
half dozen films - he badly needs to start showing some range).

But there are some good things in it, and chief among these are the
real - and touching - relationships between Vaughan and friend James
and, particularly, girlfriend Connelly.
<|_=00=_|>
I think it was wrong to advertise this as a comedy. It was not. But I
felt it was real. The argument that those two women wouldn't be
interested in these two people is ridiculous argument. Its done in
Movies all the time. But this really was NOT a comedy. 

I think people are giving the movie a bad rap mainly for that reason.
Not because it was a bad movie. Yes it made your stomach upset but that
is because it was an uncomfortable movie. 

I gave a 9 out of 10 because it wasn't perfect. But it was damn good.
Vince Vaughn actually impressed me here. He usually plays an obnoxious
prick. He was still kind of obnoxious but we got to see his human side
as well which we don't see very often in his movies. 

This movie was about the friendship of two best friends and "the
dilemma" you can be put in when you find out the best friend's wife is
cheating. How do you really break it to them. Its not just like a
girlfriend. That may be easier to do. But a wife, and you know its
gonna hurt.
<|_=00=_|>
How could one go wrong with a cast like Jennifer Connelly, Vince
Vaughn, Winona Ryder, Kevin James and Queen Latifah? While 'The
Dilemma' isn't among the worst movies, it's still a big disappointment.
The premise doesn't promise a classic but it sounded funny and since
Vaughn and James were involved, I expected to laugh and with Ryder and
especially Connelly, I expected some substance. 'The Dilemma' is a
complete failure where substance is concerned. It did make me laugh on
a few (very few occasions). Plot holes are very apparent and I also
thought it was ridiculous how the story was making Ryder's Geneva to
look like the villain when her husband is equally to be blamed for the
same. In addition, the story deviates in the last half hour only to
head further downhill. Vince Vaughn's Ronny is more vulnerable than the
characters he usually plays and he does a good job. Kevin James's Nick
suffers from poor writing. It's good to see Winona Ryder back in a
meaty role (even though it was a small part). Luminous beauty and
immensely talented Jennifer Connelly is criminally wasted. Ditto for
the voluptuous Queen Latifah.
