
I am a psychiatrist and psychotherapist who can tell a hawk from a
handsaw, and there is a wonderful handsaw in this movie. So, I feel
qualified to tell you it is safe to see this movie as it is, without
worrying about details like gravity. Do not allow unimaginative
naysayers to keep you from enjoying this gem. I mean, we all can enjoy
vampire and zombie movies, right? Is any movie any better than "Let the
Right One In"? I saw this movie last night in Brookline Mass at a Q&A
preview, with director, writers, and an actor -- all combined in two
lovely people. No one in our sophisticated audience that included a
CETI scientist cared enough about the "laws of physics" problems to
mention them in the question period. All we cared about were the
endearing characters, the music both acoustic and visual, the plot
developments, the shocking climaxes, the compelling emotional
plausibility. 

The movie is not about anything as terrestrial as gravity. In the world
of this movie, something has happened to upset some kind of cosmic
symmetry, and the other earth has appeared from a parallel universe. I
do wish some character or other had dispelled the physics with "I don't
know why our orbits are not affected". But, the metaphor works as a way
to discuss looking at oneself. It really does not matter. The acting is
perfect, the camera-work perfectly beautiful, the plot deeply affecting
with wonderful surprises.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. An award winning film at Sundance,
this one seems to carry the same polarizing effect that "Tree of Life"
does. The reviews and comments have been discordant and contentious.
After sitting through a Q&A with Mike Cahill (co-writer, director) and
Brit Marling (co-writer, star) I am guessing they are taking great
pride in the love/hate responses. Their film was designed to take you
deep ... make you think and self-analyze. This is not a fluffy Owen
Wilson rom-com. Explaining what it is, well, that's a challenge.

The story begins with Rhoda (Brit Marling) out for a night of partying.
We learn she has been accepted to M.I.T. and that she is quite the
space and astronomy lover. Her very poor decision to drive home after
drinking results in a horrific accident that changes her life and that
of a young family. At the same time, scientists discover "another
Earth" has been hiding on the other side of the sun. Flash forward four
years as Rhoda is released from prison.

She is a broken spirit whose bright future has been dashed. She tracks
down the man who survived the crash she caused and has every intention
of apologizing. Instead, she cleans his house. She finds John (William
Mapother) has dropped out of society and found numbness in the bottle.

I won't say more about the story because it is really something to
watch unfold. What I will say is that I found the advertisements to be
somewhat misleading. This is not a sci-fi film per se. Sure the second
earth brings about numerous questions concerning the "other" us. What
would we say? How would we react? Have I done better there than here?
But that is actually an underlying element to this story ... always
present in our thoughts and those of Rhoda. Instead, this film is a
psychological drama. And a dark one at that.

You will recognize William Mapother (The Grudge, Lost), who plays John.
He has a regular guy look to him and stretches well from happiness to
depression to, once again, showing a spark. Brit Marling is one you
don't know, but will soon enough. She is an amazing presence on screen
and avoids the Hollywood acting crutches. She plays Rhoda as the
damaged, confused creature she is in the story. Very well done.

A couple of other interesting notes include Kumar Pallana (The Royal
Tenenbaums)as Purdeep. With minimal screen time, his character provides
Rhoda with a lesson she needs. There is also a scene where John plays a
saw as a musical instrument. The sound is amazing and the music is
actually from Natalia Paruz, who is knows as the "saw lady". Other
music in the film is outstanding and courtesy of Fall on Your Sword.
Very unique, but a perfect fit for the film.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to the cinema on the spur of the moment, I had a couple of hours
to kill. I scanned the billboard for anything that might seem vaguely
interesting - "Another Earth" sounded science fiction-y so I bought my
ticket and went in.

It's important I explain this for two reasons: first because I saw this
movie "tabula rasa", having not seen trailers, read reviews or having
any idea what it was about. Secondly it became evident from the bad-
tempered muttering in the back I wasn't the only one to have done this.

At first I struggled with the concept, but I kept an open mind and a
very different movie to the one I thought I would see developed, and
was actually quite well done. After about 20 minutes I was ready to get
up and leave, but giving it time paid back dividends, by the last
half-hour I had become too involved to consider leaving.

The story is a slow burner that grips you incrementally, and while the
occasionally grainy or out of focus shots give you the strong
impression this was made on a shoestring, that is no reason to hold
anything against it. Having seen the high budget yawn-fest
"Transformers" I can actually say that given the current state of big
budget science fiction this is a refreshing, if a bit left-field
approach to the genre.

Evidently my companion viewers in the cinema, a small group of guys,
were not getting as much out of the deeply troubled love story that
forms the basis of the plot, and they made their discontent very
audible to my irritation.

In brief, not a film for everyone, but if you're in the mood for an
introspective slow-burner and you've got the patience for it, this film
will prove a rewarding experience
<|_=00=_|>
""O wad some Power the gift tae gie us, to see oursels as ithers see
us!" Â– Robert Burns 

Beginning as a blue speck in the far distant horizon, in four years a
new planet resembling Earth has moved into our solar system, creating a
hovering phantom-like globe in the sky that puzzles scientists and
laymen alike, but brings a feeling of wonder to the night sky. Winner
of the Alfred P. Sloan Feature Film and the Jury Prize at the Sundance
Film Festival, Mike Cahill's low-budget film, Another Earth, is a
quietly beautiful meditation on guilt, redemption, and second chances.
Though it has some implausible elements, it is so skillfully written
and performed that these elements seem irrelevant. Cahill demonstrates
that science fiction movies do not have to have blaring music, unending
frenzy, CGI effects, or ugly and violent monsters to successfully
capture our imagination.

The premise of the film is that the new planet is an exact mirror of
the Earth, containing a duplicate version of ourselves who mirror our
earthly circumstances. Cahill's main focus, however, is not the new
planet but the attachment between two damaged individuals who begin to
bring each other back to life after a devastating incident that forever
scarred their lives. As the film opens, Rhoda Williams (Brit Marling),
a bright 17-year old, unsteady after a night of celebrating her
acceptance into MIT, drives her car through a red light, putting
composer John Burroughs (William Mapother) in a coma and killing his
pregnant wife and their young son.

The film then jumps ahead four years when the still guilt-ridden and
morose Rhoda is released from prison and tries to set her life in
order, moving back with her parents Kim (Jordan Baker) and Robert
(Flint Beverage), and her brother Jeff (Robin Taylor). Though she had
planned on studying Astrophysics, the only job she can now get is
working as a high school janitor, a job where she keeps to herself
without much interaction with others. When she sees John placing a toy
robot at the site of the accident, on a whim she goes to his house
pretending to be a maid offering a free trial for a cleaning service
oddly called "Maid in Heaven." 

In the back of her mind, however, is finding a way to release her inner
torment. Fascinated with this sullen but obviously highly intelligent
woman, John takes her up on her offer and asks her to come back each
week to clean his house. At first uncommunicative both verbally and
emotionally, the two alienated people slowly begin opening up to each
other a little bit more each week. Though Rhoda eventually plans to
tell John that she was responsible for the accident that killed his
family, their visits seem to bring them to a new awakening of what is
possible in their life, and she repeatedly postpones her confession.

After listening to TV broadcasts talking constantly about the
possibility that your identical twin on Earth 2 might be a happier and
more satisfied version of you, Rhoda enters a contest to become the
first voyager to visit the other Earth. Astonishingly, she wins first
prize after a heart rendering essay describing the reasons she wants to
go. At first, pleading with her not to go through with it, John's
attitude is changed drastically after she reveals her complicity in the
fatal accident, a scene that leads to a startling and unpredictable
conclusion.

Supported by the ethereal sounds of the group "Fall on Your Sword,"
Another Earth engenders powerful performances that deserve recognition
at awards time. Marling, who also co-wrote the film, gives an intense
and moving performance that brings her character fully to life. Though
the film misses an important teachable moment near the end, it is a
quietly powerful work of art that suggests that truth lays more in
inner than in outer space, and that the biggest world to conquer is the
one that is right before our eyes. As author Marcel Proust put it, "The
real voyage of discovery lies in not seeing new landscapes but in
having new eyes."
<|_=00=_|>
Another Earth contains both an outward looking expansionist grand
vision and an inward focused deep introspection. First, the external
and gargantuan stimulus is that another planet appears in the sky. At
first, it's just a speck like any other planet or distant star. Then it
keeps coming closer is soon apparently our same planet dubbed Earth II.
The internal and emotionally scarred center of the film, however, is
Rhoda (Brit Marling) who is just released from prison four years later
after being convicted of vehicular manslaughter. As a 17 year old girl
who just got accepted to MIT, she drove drunk, hit a car with a family
in it, and killed the pregnant wife and five year old boy. The husband,
William Mapother, went into a short coma.

To avoid human contact and most forms of communication, Rhoda opts for
janitorial work upon release. Her family wants her to resume her life
where she left off but her psyche will not allow that. So begins a
deeply philosophical exploration on regret, guilt, forms of
forgiveness, and compassion all while a new, mirror-imaged planet is
coming closer and closer. Did Rhoda commit the same mistake on Earth
II? Is that family torn apart or still together on that new planet?
These and a host of other theories and possibilities are tossed around
for the audience concerning not only a mirror planet, but about past
events and moving forward.

In real life, Brit Marling graduated from Georgetown with and economics
degree and instead of pursuing a banking career with Goldman Sachs (an
offer she turned down) took off for Hollywood. She was only offered
smaller roles in cheap horror flicks. So instead of demeaning herself
in garbage like that, she sat down with the eventual director, Mike
Cahill, and wrote her own script. Brilliant move. It was a much harder
road to travel to write her own script and then get it picked up by Fox
Searchlight who bought the distribution rights at Sundance, but she
pulled it off. It really is a breath of fresh air to see a film like
this, learn its back story, and become immersed in it as opposed to
whatever the most recent superhero movie is.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a commercial movie, but something like a documentary shot
with a commercial movie like quality.

The storyline in the IMDb main page describes the premise of this
movie, but thats not what this movie is about.

The other planet thing is just like the background music, its there for
effect. Other Earth is all about beauty, the attention to detail and
the simple yet delicate story.

Its a lot like those many many beautiful Japanese movies (Tokyo Story
comes to my mind, though I have to say its not as good as that). Its a
beautiful journey, and when its done you lie back and think about its
beauty.

This movie is highly recommended if you enjoy simple movies like those.

This is not a sci-fi and even the logic behind the other planet is too
far fetched and they don't even hide it, they never go into any
scientific details. There is also no action, nor is it a thriller.

Cheers. :-)............
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the best films I have seen this year. I love science
fiction and all that, but this film is not about that, if you are
concerned about facts and fingers about space and whether x equals y
and is it possible etc then don't watch this film. If you are wanting
to watch a master piece of filming and directing with a truly hart felt
story then this is for you, from the very beginning I was hooked until
the final seconds of the film without interruption. Watch this film
when you have time on your own in silence and sit back to enjoy a
master piece in its own right. This film is in my top 20 of all time,
watch it you will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoiler Alert!!! 

This comment is for those who have already seen the movie, as my
comments mainly pertain to the last scene.

It would seem that most viewers didn't get something I just
automatically figured out during the course of the movie...and this
thing has to do with the broken synchronicity. Earth 1 and Earth 2
didn't just automatically start to become different, something had to
break synchronicity, and those differences would only occur with the
two planets interaction and then have to domino or butterfly effect
from there. When she was driving in her car, looking up to see the blue
dot in the sky, her double was doing the same thing. But, the other
planet was not a mirror image, it was a duplicate, so unlike in a
mirror, where when you raise your right hand you see your reflection
raising its left hand, what she saw was more like looking into a
rorrim, which is a type of mirror where things are not reversed, so you
actually see things as others would be looking at you and seeing
things...the print of a book you are holding up to a rorrim isn't
reversed and you can still easily read it, and so on. When the blue dot
was first noticed and the disc jockey was announcing it she looked up
into the sky and her body double was also looking up, but exactly where
that blue dot was in the sky was different for the two of them. So,
given her body double's different positioning of her head, her
different angle of viewing, she noticed the other car in time to brake
or swerve and miss it. Similarly, when Dr. Joan Tallis was on live TV
making live radio contact, at first she thought she was getting
feedback, because in reply to anything she said, she was hearing the
other Joan Tallis who was broadcasting the exact same radio message to
her. This was a frustration for her, until something different about
the radio waves traveling through space meant that one of them would
hear something differently, and respond differently, so that instead of
just saying the same thing to each other at the same time, back and
forth, one of them somehow responded differently, "Hello? Hello?" as
they undoubtedly had heard something different, or failed to hear
something because it was blocked by interference. Then their
synchronicity was broken enough in that small way for the two of them
to actually have a conversation, and undoubtedly, television viewers on
Earth 2 might have experienced a small break in synchronicity, as their
Joan Tallis was answering the question about what she bought at the
space store in Cape Canaveral, so the viewers on Earth 2 didn't have
their Joan Tallis holding up the words "space strawberries," on her
yellow pad to possibly provoke the obvious reaction that Rhonda's
brother on Earth 1 was having. (And obviously, Rhonda 2's brother
didn't have a sister who went to prison, so very likely in that
family's life, along with Rhonda 2's friends at MIT, quite a bit of
synchronicity had been broken by then.) So, the Rhonda 2 didn't crash,
did go to MIT, did study astronomy or astrophysics, which was her area
of interest, and won the contest for other reasons, probably just for
being a motivated MIT graduate student specializing in space and
astronomy. She had nobody to consider giving up her space flight to,
since she didn't kill anybody's family. John Burroughs undoubtedly
joined his family, now having two fathers, only one being slightly
banged up and with minor head injury issues. This was already a
question in my mind and in other viewers' minds, whether by looking up
at the sky at different angles the two Rhondas had broken synchronicity
enough to where one of them had swerved and missed hitting the other
car. The final scene didn't raise any questions at all, rather, it
quickly and refreshingly answered the really biggest question that
viewers who got it were already asking themselves and wondering about.
For me, that final scene was a magical and beautiful moment, but not
wonderful at all, as it replied to all the wonder by answering every
question and tying-up all the loose ends of the story very well, at
least as far as the story line was dealing with. (Of course to follow
the story one had to at least suspend belief enough to not stray from
the story, wondering about things like whether the two planets would be
experiencing tsunami tides because of their gravitational pulls and
such, etc.) 

There was no moral difference between the two Rhondas, it's not that
one of them decided to go the party and drink while the other didn't,
they were the same person, they were the same drunk, just one was a
drunk trying to look at a blue dot in the sky over here, while the
other was a drunk trying to look at a blue dot in the sky over there.
Face to face, they should realize that were the same person until then,
only one, like most drunk drivers, just didn't end up in an accident by
mere chance, just dumb luck and nothing else.

I just thought it was a wonderful movie and the final scene answered
that wonderful with a terrific happy ending. The two Rhonda's certainly
have a lot of catching up to do, and undoubtedly, John and Rhonda are
the only people who ended up on the same planet as their other selves,
and the other shuttle passengers certainly arrived to notice little or
no difference with the planet they left, probably feeling more like
returning astronauts than true space explorers. The Rhonda 1 and John 1
switch proved to be an additional but major break in synchronicity for
the two Earths.
<|_=00=_|>
I have listed this as a spoiler just in case, although I provide no
details regarding the outcome of the film. I merely hint at things.

I went into Another Earth with hopes of finding something unique. After
all, the trailer, log line, and tasteful stills all pointed to the idea
that Mike Cahill's pet project was something different than what I was
used to.

I was mistaken. Badly so.

Disappointment cannot even begin to convey my feelings towards this
film. The most heartbreaking aspect of Another Earth is that it fails
to deliver an emotional payoff despite consistently setting up
emotional-anchored scenarios. Rhoda (Brit Marling) hits and kills the
child and wife of John Burroughs (William Mapother). She sees the
bodies and CUT! we jump to four years later to find her back with the
family (whom, I might add, seem bizarrely awkward around their
daughter. She was in jail, not Siberia, for the last four years. Did no
one ever think to put visitor hours to good use?). We don't see the
real emotional impact of her mistake because she comes home a living
zombie: empty, quiet, deadpan, and flat out boring.

Which leads me to another problem: depressed people don't have
Lego-brick personalities. And if they do, they don't star as lead
characters in films (unless we're talking Twilight). Cahill seems to
believe the only way to convey guilt is to make Rhoda an unkempt rag
doll with an expressionless face. To him, having her stare off into
space for thirty seconds shows just how "emotionally deep" her problems
run. For us in the audience, it means it's time to check our watches.

The silence in the film (and there's a LOT of it) doesn't tell us
anything about Rhoda. Instead, it acts as a precursor to a lot of
overly artsy shots that make you think about how much color correction
they did in post. In fact, this entire film could run as a series of
photographic stillsÂ— after all, it seems to care more about how pretty
Earth 2 looks into the sky than the emotional struggles of the girl
standing beneath it.

Dialogue is contrived, painfully so. If you've watched even one
Hollywood film, you can probably guess each and every line before it's
said. Things fall in a predictable fashion and characters flip flop
personalities depending on what the plot calls for. There are numerous
points over which characters throw massive fits, only to dismiss the
same problem a scene later.

And then, of course, there's the blatant unrealism of it all. No, I'm
not talking about Earth 2. I can suspend my disbelief for that. What
I'm talking about is the set up between Rhoda and John. Despite what
John's been through, he's not an idiot; it shouldn't take him an hour
and ten minutes to figure out Rhoda's not who she says she is.

Another Earth expects you to ignore basic logic in order to swallow
even the most simple of moments. It interprets "suspension of
disbelief" as meaning "you can't judge this film because it's artsy."
This film lacks the depth it so desperately attempts to flaunt. It
comes off cheesy, pretentious, shallow, and self-obsessed. Characters
pinball through events and come out as empty as they started. The ones
that do change do so without any real good reason. There's no pleasure
to be had in watching this film unless you absolutely love staring at
empty, motiveless images (and characters) for long periods of time. But
if that's the case, I recommend watching a Discovery Channel doc. At
least you'll be learning something.

To conclude, Another Earth is a complete waste for anyone looking to
enjoy themselves. It delivers nothing in exchange for your time and
money and expects you to come out praising it for its "unique
delivery." Do your eyes, wallet, and gas tank a favor and avoid.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this movie at Sundance and feel compelled to write this review
because of all of the bogus hype surrounding it. This movie has so many
holes that I wish the writers would have received some notes because
nothing in this film makes sense. Problem one: The "other" Earth has
been hidden behind the sun that's why we couldn't see it all these
years we have been exploring the cosmos? Makes no sense. Planting this
other planet in our solar system was a huge mistake. Problem two: It
takes four years to contact and travel to the other Earth when it is
ten times bigger in the sky then our own moon? Makes no sense. It does
not take four years to travel to the moon and we have been doing it
since 1969. Problem three: Brit Marling's character's name was not
revealed to William Mapother's because she was a minor? She was a
senior in high school and off to MIT so I don't think she would be a
minor, and even if she was I'm sure the victim of the accident would be
in the trial and see her face. You can ask the audience to take one
leap of faith, but not multiple ones. If this movie had just been a
film about star crossed lovers it would've been much better off. The
sci-fi element is completely unnecessary and treats the audience like
morons; and William Mapother is no leading man. He is super creepy. The
secondary actors were sub par. Mr Littlejeans from Royal Tenenbaums
makes an appearance that is just laughable. There is random voice-over
from a character that is not relevant to the film. You don't even find
out who it is until late in the third act. I'm sure there are people
that are going to disagree with my review and that is fine but for
anyone who is a sci-fi fan looking for a sci-fi movie this is not for
you. The best sci-fi film I have seen at Sundance was Primer and I
highly recommend that over this film.
