
This movie had a lot of potential with an interesting hook and great
location but failed to deliver all around. 

A horror movie relies on tension and atmosphere to build fear. This
movie takes a very long and tedious time establishing characterization
instead of mood. Unfortunately, the two main characters and in fact all
the characters in the very small cast are so two-dimensional and
stereotypical that all that time was thoroughly wasted. To add insult
to injury, there is even a cheap jump scene at the beginning that
breaks what little mood is established by the opening credits and pans
of the set. When the movie finally reaches its climax, it still is not
scary or horrific. It just falls flat. The ending was unsatisfying as
well with no real resolution or twist. 

It's just good enough to keep you watching and waiting for something to
happen, but it never does.
<|_=00=_|>
If something had actually happened. for a movie of 1 hour and 35
minutes, there's surprisingly little in the way of story or plot. Now,
at first I was actually excited, as I think most good horror movies are
masters of building up the anticipation - 30 to 45 minutes of build up
isn't inappropriate, but this movie felt like it was straight up 1
hours and 35 minutes of build up. 

It almost felt like they had too much time to show the characters
(pranking and having fun with each other, mostly, which became old real
quick) and their relationships and too little time to resolve the ghost
plot. It had the makings of a (bit clich√©, but hey) storyline that,
with careful execution, could have made for a nice horror flick with
more subtle horror compared to all the splatters that are out these
days. Instead, we got almost nothing.

This movie left me with so many questions and just kind of a "huh?"
feeling - I like when everything isn't answered or when things aren't
stated directly on screen - when you have to think a little bit - but
this is seriously taking it way, way, WAY too far.

Instead of feeling like the movie set up some expectations and rules
and then satisfied these, it just felt...

Inadequate. Very, very inadequate. And confused, and kinda hollow.
Terrible disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't usually write reviews but after watching this film and then
looking at the latest reviews posted on here i felt compelled to give
this a serious review.

If you like Slasher movies where girls who fall down a lot are being
chased by a maniac with a weapon. THIS FILM IS NOT FOR YOU.

If you like Zombie movies with lots of blood and gore. THIS FILM IS NOT
FOR YOU.

If you've got the attention span of a goldfish and like to chat to your
mates all the way through a movie. (Guess What).

Right now the rantings out the way.

If you like sitting in a dark cinema/room, late at night with no
distractions and you like ghost stories, then watch this film. I
thought the acting, directing and sound score of this movie all worked
really well and that with ghost stories less is more. The odd noise
here and there, was that a ghost? or wasn't it? The uncertainty of
whether this is real or not is what a ghost story should be all about,
yes it's slow but that builds up the atmosphere, which i thought was
great and there's some genuinely jumpy parts in the film. Sat here on
my own in the dark watching this film had me gripped from start to
finish. It's been a long time since i've seen a film this good and i
recommend this to anyone who's into ghost stories.
<|_=00=_|>
For the over 25 crowd who miss great ghost stories like The Changeling,
Poltergiest,The Others, or eerie films like Suspiria and The
Fog(Carpenter's original not the horrid remake)- heck I'll even throw
Insidious in there, then check out The Innkeepers. It is a bit of a
slow burner at times but is consistently spooky, scary, and even during
the down time has you involved and getting to know the characters
dwelling in this Gothic tale.

Really good work in my opinion. If you are into Saw or Horror Remakes
you can let this one go, but if you like being spooked on a stormy
night with your other half sitting along side you gnawing on your
shoulder then this is quite a fun ride! The director of this Ti West
made House Of The Devil last year which I thought was entertaining if
not a bit boring throughout. It showed the potential and he nailed it
with The Innkeepers. A ghost story about an old hotel with a few
secrets and a small yet interesting cast of specters and human
characters, namely the female lead(Actress Sara Paxton) who while
working the last weekend before the hotel is closed for good decides
along with the other employee(Actor Pat Healy) to have a few scares
ghost hunting the place. Kelly Mcgillis, yes that one- Maverick's gal
from Top Gun has a great supporting role in this as a once former
actress turned medium.

Anyway, it is just a good flick and will have you thinking about the
ending for some time after it finishes. Check it out so hopefully more
films like this are green lit. The Inkeepers surprised me quite a bit..
<|_=00=_|>
Total nonsense. Weak plot, bad acting. The movie is just an empty
box,somebody forgot to fill it. Acting is at amateurs level, except for
Kelly McGillis of course. I'm an horror movies addicted, so i've
watched this movie just to add another notch on my belt, but really it
was no fun and not scary at all. At the end of the movie the girl goes
looking for Lee down the basement, and this is so unreal. They were
packing their stuff before leaving and the girl thinks Lee was going to
play hide and seek?

C'mon, that tells me a lack of ideas on how ending the movie and not
just that...
<|_=00=_|>
The Innkeepers is written and directed by Ti West. It stars Sara
Paxton, Pat Healy and Kelly McGillis. Music is by Jeff Grace and
cinematography by Eliot Rockett. It's the last few business days at the
historically spooky Yankee Pedlar Inn, and two employees spend their
hours by indulging in some amateur ghost hunting. But as the clock
ticks down it becomes apparent that the hotel's haunted past is
anything but an urban legend.

Following on from his excellent slow burn girl-in-peril horror film,
House of the Devil, Ti West determinedly sticks to his principals for
The Innkeepers. This automatically alienates a good portion of the
horror faithful, especially in the younger echelons, for those who need
and seek thrill after thrill, a ghost train ride of a horror movie, The
Innkeepers is sure to be a hard slog to get through. But for a certain
niche in horrorville, where the adults reside who love a sombre tone,
character and story build up and a last quarter pay off, then The
Innkeepers is a little gem of a creeper.

That's not to say that West's movie is flawless, far from it, there is
still dumb decisions made, including a major league one that the film's
terrifying conclusion hinges on, and the Inn itself is not exactly the
stuff of haunted building nightmares. That is until we go down to the
basement or up to the deserted third floor....But West has such a good
sense of mood and the good sense to involve us so thoroughly with the
two protagonists, both excellently portrayed by Paxton and Healy, that
once things eventually take the turn into the realm of the outright
scary, the little missteps are easily forgiven. West's traditional
values to be applauded, not frowned upon. Bonus, too, is McGillis in a
decidedly off kilter performance as an ex-actress-come psychic healer
who likes a drink and has a significant role to play in proceedings.

The haunted house spooker is making something of a come back lately,
and it's great to see directors prepared to get their movies out there
and offer up an alternative to the over populated slice and dice
formula. Ti West is showing himself to be a friend to the grown-up
chill seeker, long may he continue in this vein. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
It's quite difficult to form any real opinion on this movie, as it is
so bland. Two bored employees working at a hotel just before it closes
after the tourist season, find ghostly goings on. And erm, that's about
it. It is a full forty minutes, yes FORTY, before anything out of the
ordinary happens, and even that is a piano key moving on it's own.

Prior to that nerve-shredder, we are treated to a chunk of the hum-drum
working lives of the two employees, who share a common interest in the
paranormal, mostly conveyed via a laptop they have at the front desk.
There are a small number of guests at the hotel - a woman and her son,
a woman who used to be an actress, now a self-proclaimed 'psychic', and
later on, an elderly man.

There is some waffle about the ghost of a woman who is supposed to
haunt the hotel and the lacklustre staff wander around sporadically
(some bespectacled net-surfer and the girl from Last House on the Left,
Sarah Paxton). The supernatural elements escalate further into the
movie, but by then you will probably have fallen asleep, started
staring at the carpet or at best, trying to amuse yourself with
guessing the ending. The latter proves a fruitless task, by the way, as
whoever wrote this story either has the imagination of a dead gerbil or
simply couldn't be bothered.

And before anyone thinks 'ooh, he probably doesn't get the subtle
nuances of psychological horror,' trust me, I do. 'The Blair witch
Project' and 'Session 9', to name but two, showed thought and
enthusiasm, but, like the employees of this hotel in the first half of
this movie's running time, the makers of 'The Innkeepers' have somehow
fused boredom and horror together. The result is shockingly tedious.
<|_=00=_|>
Welcome to the Yankee Pedlar Inn, current residency: five. Living, that
is. Tasked with minding the 100-year-old establishment the weekend
prior to it shutting its doors for good, employees Claire (Sara Paxton)
and Luke (Pat Healy) find that besides the lone, mysterious woman
(Kelly McGillis) and mother/son duo that populate the creaky old
domicile, something more sinister lurks.

From 31-year-old director Ti West, who in 2010 directed the wonderfully
retro The House of the Devil, comes The Innkeepers, a simultaneously
old-fashioned (and unabashedly so) and tongue-in-cheek deconstruction
of overused genre clich√©s such as "the boo moment." But that isn't to
say The Innkeepers doesn't embrace these staples with equal affection,
and eventually utilizes them wonderfully (and with ample flair) as
things escalate toward the chilling final act.

What initially distinguishes this supernatural thriller from others of
its kind is that the first third of the film offers barely a hint that
this is a horror movie. Sure, nobody would be mistaken that this wasn't
a fright flick, but the debut act is more concerned with the character
development of Claire and Luke and showing the simply the mundane
nature of running a practically (excuse the wording) dead business.
These scenes are punctuated with silver-tongued dialogue that would
make Sorkin or Tarantino smile. Not to say that West's script is on the
same level, but it is certainly akin to that style and speed of
exchange.

This is essentially a three-man show (though to be more accurate a two-
woman and one-man show) led by the wonderful Paxton. She exudes a
down-to-earth sexiness and plays Claire as a bit of an oddball but with
a magnetic spark, a performance that couldn't have been more different
than her work in last fall's Shark Night 3D. This proves she is a
legitimate talent to watch and can hold her own when she is only
required to emote through silence. 

Healy is also great as Luke, who is even more of a nerdy outcast than
his co-worker. He passes his time on the graveyard shift by watching
porn and working on his paranormal-themed website. He has a great, easy
chemistry with Paxton throughout. 

The last remaining piece of the character trifecta comes from McGillis'
Leanne, a former television star who has since turned to the profession
of medium. She goes great work as more complex "Crazy Ralph" character
though her inclusion at all lacks any real necessity, only to point out
the ominous.

The Innkeepers has clever, underlying elements from the "are they crazy
or not?" horror movie structure, and though there is never a doubt of
certain characters' sanity, questions are certainly posed as to the
truths behind what transpired. West's flick also has a clever foil to
the normally dopey (and often infuriating) clich√© of what I shall now
refer to as the "door paradox": when stuff goes poltergeist-style
crazy, use it! You see these characters unwillingly provoke the dark
history of the inn, determined to capture some proof of paranormal
infestation before it closes for good. The bumps in the night only spur
them further (especially Claire) right into the finale, which finds her
way over her pretty blond head.

A lack of gore and a very deliberate pace may dissuade those accustomed
to the quick-cut, bloody flashiness of mainstream offerings, but this
movie again proves ample talent exists in indie circles. Overall very
humorous as its pokes and prods at the genre, there is a sense of
solemn irony as the credits role. It is not a depressing finale, nor is
it a disturbing one; I would simply peg it as especially fitting. A
great score and a definite '70s vibe (far from as intentionally
apparent as it was in The House of the Devil, which was in fact set in
the 1970s) allows The Innkeepers to rise above recent horror offerings.
At the very least, this is a passionate and noteworthy salute to the
origins of the modern-day horror flick.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing brilliant "House of Devil" I decided to check out other
movies of Ti West, who seems to be a very talented and promising film
director. Even lots of negative reviews on IMDb did not dissuade me to
watch this film. "Innkeeprers" turned out to be a very well made horror
film which will be truly appreciated by more mature horror movie fans
looking forward for suspense rather than lots of gore and high
bodycount. Tension builds up slowly, gradually reaching the climax.
Actors are doing a great job and director is a true master of the genre
attempting to produce a small masterpiece in a minimalistic premise,
only a few actors and almost no special effects. Watch this movie at
night, alone, with lights off and I promise you that you are going to
be scared.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying this movie isn't for everyone and not because
some people are idiots - just different sensibilities. That's cool. But
I do; however, don't believe it deserves the score it has - esp with
all the terrible horror movies pumped out yearly. This one should get
some credit. It's a subtle horror moving that builds great tension and
has some good scares.

::SPOILERS:: The end was a bit open ended, but I don't mind that.
Movies that keep the wheels in my head turning after the credits role
are some of my faves.

As far as "getting it" I found that the characters spelled it out
during the movie. The hotel is closing, Clair believes that Luke has
seen the ghost and she's becoming increasingly desperate to see
something supernatural before she loses her chance. Luke explains that
she needs to be extremely careful when dealing with ghost/spirit
hunting or trying to make contact because you have to be in the right
state of mind otherwise you can start seeing things and will spiral out
of control. As the movie goes on she begins to believe there are things
happening around her, mysterious noises, etc. Every time she
investigates and it's nothing she gets a HUGE scare and has to take a
hit off her inhaler. During Claire's meeting with Lee she keeps asking
if the spirit there is O'Malley, even after Lee tells her NO she still
keeps speaking to O'Malley and completely disregards Lee's warning to
her. "It was an accident/Stay out of the basement". Claire applies this
to O'Malley even though it was a warning about/for her.

So Claire is completely wrapped up in believing O'Malley is there and
making contact with her. The point that pushes her over mentally is
seeing the old man in the tub. This is the point where she spirals out
of control. She's seeing things, shes ends up in the basement (where
she inadvertently locked herself in previously )where she is completely
terrified without her inhaler after her tumble down the stairs. Asthma
attack = death.

Have it figured out? Thought so, but ah so... slamming door scene in
the end. Was she seeing things or is there something supernatural
happening.. hmm. Maybe the whole O'Malley thing was just a story but
Claire's death there ends up being the real ghost at the hotel after
all the rumors. THAT is what I liked about this movie. It keeps you
thinking and second guessing yourself. It's a ghost story. Are there
ghosts - do you believe. Because that's the difference between being
scared or not. Is it real or fake? I wasn't bothered that I didn't' get
a definitive answer - although a door slamming shut in an empty hotel
does suggest something strange - I can't say for sure.

In the end I found the movie to be spooky, the imagery great, the
acting done very well and it left me thinking. Even a little creeped
out to walk down the dark hallway in my very old house at night.

I enjoy a good ghost story and I believe this delivered. Can't wait to
see what the director does next!
