
Crazy, Stupid, Love. is one of, if not the best, American romantic
comedies of the past decade. This may come as a shock to some (as it
surely took me aback) but there is no other way to describe it. Going
into an advanced screening of the film earlier this week, I had my
doubts that it would be anything outside of generic. But instead of
tripe, I got one of the most unexpected surprises I have seen all year.

Cal (Steve Carell) and Emily (Julianne Moore) have hit a rough patch in
their long-time marriage, and Emily inadvertently announces to an
entire restaurant that she wants a divorce. Down and depressed, Cal
starts drinking away his sorrows at a local bar, attempting to make
sense of his predicament with anyone who will listen. Jacob (Ryan
Gosling), a professional bachelor, takes notice and makes it his
personal mission to help Cal get over his wife, and become a new man in
the process.

But this is just the main plot thread of the movie. It also follows
Jacob's relationship with the absolutely stunning Hannah (Emma Stone),
throws in a bit of curveball with Emily being romanced by David (Kevin
Bacon), and even has a bit of a focus on Cal's son Robbie (Jonah Bobo)
pining over his older babysitter Jessica (Analeigh Tipton). It may
sound a little packed with threads and too many characters, but Crazy,
Stupid, Love. is able to navigate between each character and couple
with ease. It reminded me a lot of Valentine's Day, and how its main
goal was to depict how different love is for a sizable amount of
couples and singletons. Except it failed miserably at it, and stood out
more as an example of every rom-com stereotype you could imagine.
Thankfully, Crazy, Stupid, Love. takes the higher road and breathes new
life into a stale genre.

While the impeccable cast is more than enough reason why the film
succeeds so well in being an atypical film in the genre, it is the crew
behind-the-scenes that surprises even more. The film is written by Dan
Fogelman, who is best known for a string of Disney films and the
atrocious Fred Claus, and is directed by Glenn Ficarra and John Requa,
who wrote and directed the sadly little seen I Love You Phillip Morris
and wrote the now classic Bad Santa. These three would not be the first
group on men I would turn to for a film like this, but their relative
lack of expertise helps propel the film to the heights it reaches. It
takes darkly hilarious turns in certain instances, plays other
sequences totally unconventionally, play even more out with a
foreboding sense of drama the trailer merely hints at, and trumps more
than its share of genre stereotypes. Weaving between the plots lines,
they make the film feel unique and different from others, all while
giving it an aura of authenticity. While they stumble a bit in the
final act with a series of sitcom-like shockers that border on
ludicrous, they manage to pull off the rare feat of actually making the
audience wonder if these characters will all end up together in the
end, or if they will walk their separate ways; something that is truly
uncommon for this genre.

Acting wise, the film delivers in spades. Carell gives one of his best
performances to date as Cal, moving as swiftly as the script requires
between depression and humiliation, and touching and hilarious. The
film stretches his dramatic muscle more than most, and allows him to
give a performance that does not rely on laughs. The expressions on his
face are just devastating in some sequences, and the wonder in other
scenes is ridiculously hilarious. It is a performance I hope to see him
come back to again, and make even better. Gosling plays against type,
and gives an absolutely hysterical performance. He shines brightly in
every scene, nailing every line and mannerism, while making this
scumbag of a lothario become someone to really care about. He exudes
chemistry and helps make everyone else's performance better. Moore and
Stone also give great performances, easily balancing the humour with
the drama. They are not given nearly as much to do as the guys, but
hold their own on- screen.

The supporting cast does even better. Bobo is phenomenal in his role,
conveying an innocence and naivety that is more mature than I thought
possible. He acts like more of an adult than some of the older cast
does in many instances, and gives the performance a well-rounded other
young actors would be incapable of. Tipton is not nearly as good, but
plays the role of a confused teenager a little better than you would
imagine. Bacon does great in a small turn as does Liza Lapira as
Hannah's best friend. But it is Marisa Tomei who steals the show from
everyone, playing one of Cal's conquests. She is dementedly unhinged
and ridiculously over-the-top, but never falters. Her performance may
be one-note, but it is easily the most memorable thing about the film.

If I hold anything against the film (other than the final act stumble
and the oh-so convenient way one particular scene comes together), it
is that it ended. I know I have harped on how unlike other typical
romantic comedies Crazy, Stupid, Love. is, but there is really no other
way I can rave about it. I easily could have spent more time with these
characters, and pined to find out what happened to each of them after
the final fade out. The incredibly unlikely pair of Ficarra and Requa
has crafted a truly wonderful and hilarious film that is nothing like
what you could have expected watching the trailer. It is bittersweet,
and easily one of my favourite movies of the summer. And this is coming
from someone who loathes almost every single romantic comedy ever
conceived.

8.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
My initial reaction is that this film is the best romantic comedy that
I've seen in years. The genre has been pretty devoid of quality lately.
So, I don't know if that plays a part or not and I really don't care at
this point. I enjoyed everything about this movie. It has tremendous
heart and charisma and it's so very easy to get caught up in to the
lives of these characters. A certain degree of patience is required
while viewing because some secondary characters that feel unnecessary
to the story are worth getting to know. Steve Carell's character is the
one everyone empathizes with and when the movie shifts away from the
"A" story you wonder why and start to think that the "B" story is going
to be muddled or clich√© or one to endure. Well, they're not and
everything comes together in a wonderful fashion. The entire cast here
is perfection. The overall message may be one to debate but it doesn't
matter because the ride and this film are just so smart and so well
done.
<|_=00=_|>
You know usually I'm not into romantic comedies, as I find that most of
them fall short & are extremely cheesy. I really liked this movie
though. One of the great things about it, is the acting is great.
Everyone plays their part perfectly and you actually kind of feel for
them in their individual situations. Usually when I think of Steve
Carell, I think of a jokester. He was great in his serious scenes
though, very believable. And Ryan Gosling, Oh my goodness, Ryan
Gosling. He has always been one of my favorite actors. He plays a
ladies man in this movie, trying to get Carell back on his feet after
splitting with his wife. The two of them have great chemistry together
and provide plenty of laughs, along with touching moments. I just saw
this movie yesterday and I already want to see it again. That almost
never happens that I want to see a movie again right away. Very cute.
This movie has a little bit of everything and I think that most people
would enjoy it. 9/10!
<|_=00=_|>
It was roughly two-thirds of the way into Crazy, Stupid, Love when I
realized how invested the audience in my theater had become. The key
scene involved a mom cleaning her daughter's room, a seemingly mundane
moment that produced gasps and cries of "Oh no!" even before the
character makes a very revealing discovery. It's a scene that, much
like the rest of Crazy, Stupid, Love, a heartwarming and, at times,
painfully honest depiction of three couples at various stages in each
of their relationships, unfolds not with predictability so much as
inevitability. Unlike your average, generic romantic-comedy, this movie
focuses less on the end, on who will end up with whom, than on the
special and often surprising connections that are made along the way.
What's more, it achieves the remarkable and all-too-rare feat of
actually moving the audience to care about the central characters, to
cheer when they come out on top and sympathize when they don't.

Using a witty, compassionate and ever-so-slightly subversive script
from Dan Fogelman, directors Glenn Ficarra and John Requa, who are best
known for writing the pitch-black comedy/satire Bad Santa and only have
one other directorial effort under their belts (last year's I Love You,
Philip Morris), guide the production along with subtle ease. They
strike an ideal balance between humor and drama, allowing the overall
tone to develop organically. Laughs come mostly in chuckles at the
cleverness of a line or its delivery and are never awkwardly forced in
to lighten up a scene, while the emotions feel genuine without becoming
manipulative. Most of all, their restrained approach allows the actors
to breathe and to fully embody the characters they've been given.

Speaking of which, has there ever been a more likable group of people
assembled for a film, much less a romantic comedy? The cast gels
remarkably well, and at no point is anyone singled out as a villain;
even when a character threatens to become unlikable, the actor portrays
him or her with such keen understanding that it ultimately becomes
hard, if not impossible, to not root for each and every one of them.
Whenever the film tiptoes the line toward schmaltzy, they pull it back,
making every line and emotion feel utterly real. As the unquestionable
lead of the film, Steve Carell displays a tenderness and dramatic depth
he'd only hinted at in previous works like the unexpectedly moving The
40-Year-Old Virgin and occasional episodes of The Office, while Ryan
Gosling, all immaculate grooming, sly grins and twinkling eyes, is
perfectly cast as his foil, Jacob, a suave ladies' man who's really
using all that money and swagger to disguise the emptiness he feels
inside. Julianne Moore and Emma Stone are both lovely as Emily and
Hannah, respectively, radiating a down-to-earth presence and
relatability that many other Hollywood actresses seem to lack. Also
worth noting are Analeigh Tipton and Jonah Bobo, who form Crazy,
Stupid, Love's youngest romantic pairing and have been all but ignored
by the movie's publicity campaigns despite their obvious talents.

What truly sets Crazy, Stupid, Love apart from other modern-day
romantic comedies, aside from the perceptive writing and direction and
a dream cast, is that it strives to be meaningful, rather than just
mindless, predictable fluff. Though the movie employs its share of
clich√©s (precocious kid, guy falls for the one girl who initially
rejected his advances, etc.) , it's often done with a knowing wink,
most obviously when, after an altercation with Emily, his ex, and rain
begins to pour down on him, Carell's despondent Cal mutters, "What a
clich√©." It shows that love is messy, irrational, sweet and universal,
filled with regrets and tears as well as hope and joy. It celebrates
movies like Say Anything¬Ö or Jerry Maguire where sentimental wasn't a
bad word and love meant more than sex, diamond earrings and expensive,
candlelit dinners, where those small, precious moments of quiet
intimacy ¬ñ a shared look, a simple but honest conversation, a laugh, a
smile, buying a mint chocolate chip ice cream cone, a spontaneous phone
call ¬ñ speak as loudly as the grandest, most dramatic, craziest
gestures.

In short, Crazy, Stupid, Love does what the best romantic comedies do:
it gives us a glimpse into the raw, human moments that collectively
build to bring two people together ¬ñ or, at times, tear them apart; we
fall in love with them just as they fall in ¬ñ or, out of ¬ñ love with
each other. It's the perfect date movie, and so much more. To all the
other ones, the mediocre, cornball, lazy, offensive rom-coms and
chick-flicks out there, Ryan Gosling has a message for you: be better
than The Gap. Be better than The Gap.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start off my review of this film by saying that I hate Steve
Carrell. Watching him on "The Office" for all those years was painful,
because his character, and it seemed his acting style was unbelievably
stupid and bland. While he has occasionally been a decent funnyman, I
hadn't seen him in a role where he was remotely interesting and
believable.

Yesterday, I was at the movies, pretty much the whole day, and decided
to check out "Crazy Stupid Love", because it had decent critical and
audience reactions, better than I expected for a romantic comedy, and
it had some of my favorite people in it, including Julianne Moore, Emma
Stone and Ryan Gosling. And, to say the least, I was caught by
surprise.

One of the reasons for this, is because "Crazy Stupid Love" works as a
romantic comedy and a drama. Most romantic comedies, I find, are
predictable, stale, and essentially one carbon copy after another, of
the same exact story, played out in a slightly altered way. You
probably won't guess where "Crazy Stupid Love" is going. While the
ending itself is a lot like I predicted it, there's a big plot twist
that presents itself in the climax that I really didn't see coming. And
that's reason enough to see this movie.

However, there are many (better) reasons. One of the big reasons is
that it avoids making any of its characters caricatures. Each character
is real, and flawed, screwed up and deals with his or her problems in a
very grounded and grown-up way. 

It revolves around Cal (Carell), a man who has been married to Emily
(Moore) for 25 years, and is rocked by the revelation that she wants a
divorce, after sleeping with a co-worker (Kevin Bacon). Cal begins
hanging out at a chic pickup bar, where he meets Jacob (Ryan Gosling),
a lothario who takes a different woman home every night. He picks up on
Cal's depression, and helps him turn into something of a womanizer.
Meanwhile, Cal's floppy-haired thirteen-year-old son Robbie has a crush
on his older babysitter, who has a little crush of her own. Also, Jacob
meets Hannah (Emma Stone), a young lawyer who has heard every pickup
line, and therefore, has a quite jaded outlook on love.

And it is the first film or TV show to portray Steve Carrell as a human
being. He can act! Who knew? I actually liked him in this role, because
I felt that he wasn't Michael Scott, or that guy from "Get Smart", or
"The 40-Year-Old Virgin", but an average guy whose life didn't turn out
as he had hoped. I bought him in this role. He more than keeps up with
the rest of the film's stellar cast.

Another revelation here is Ryan Gosling. I've mostly seen him in
depressing dramatic roles ("Blue Valentine", "The Notebook"), while
here, he proves himself to be a cunning comedian. He has spectacular
comedic timing, and clearly has a lot of fun here with the other
actors. He seems to be the superficial funnyman at first, and, like the
rest of the cast in this terrific film, opens up, and surprises the
audience.

While Julianne Moore is always great, her character and Carrell's
character mesh in a way that makes you believe that their marriage
lasted 20+ years. Emma Stone is on fire right now, doing a great role
in "The Help", she shines just as much here, if not more. Her character
is instantly lovable, and I can't wait to see what she does next. 

This film also features Marisa Tomei, who gives a fierce, and very
funny performance as a recovering alcoholic schoolteacher who dates Cal
for awhile after his divorce. Kevin Bacon also made me laugh, as
Emily's co- worker, who was her post-divorce rebound. While these two
have brief roles, they are very funny and make the most of what they
are given.

What makes this film memorable for me, is that it is realistic. It
doesn't paint love out to be this magical thing that will automatically
make anyone happy. It knows that love doesn't always work out, and
occasionally ends in heartbreak and/or violence. And while it's
somewhat a cautionary tale, it ends hopefully and overall, kind of
happily. It made me cry a little, and it made me laugh a lot. And while
it could have been a bit longer, and given its characters some more
room to grow, it was a satisfying overall package that I would
recommend to someone who's trying to escape the summer of superhero
flicks and sequels.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this expecting an amusing, albeit predictable, movie. Boy was I
pleasantly surprised! 

Steve Carell plays a man, Cal, blindsided by his wife's sudden request
for a divorce. While wallowing in self pity at the local bar, Jacob
(Ryan Gossling) decides to turn him into a project, and introduce him
to the wonderful world of womanizing.....But you've seen that from the
previews right? What comes next is a great look at love, from first
crushes to long term marriage.

This movie is the perfect blend of funny and sweet (the entire theatre
was laughing throughout). Great performances from the whole cast,
including a surprisingly refreshing change for Steve Carell. The
writing was perfect, the pacing was great.... A perfect date movie! Not
overly sappy and not typical "chick flick" drivel.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. From the opening scene it is clear
we aren't in for a typically lame rom-com with caricatures instead of
characters and punchlines instead of feelings. Instead, this one is all
about the characters and their feelings ... realistic feelings of pain,
anger, hope and frustration. Now don't misunderstand. It doesn't go too
deep and there is still plenty of humor in the moments.

Cal (Steve Carell) and Emily (Julianne Moore) are sharing one of their
many restaurant moments over the course of their long, steady marriage.
Only this time, something spoils the comfort zone. Emily says she wants
a divorce and later tells Cal that she had an affair with a co-worker
(Kevin Bacon). What follows is as close to real life reactions as we
could ever hope for in a rom-com. Cal is hurt. The kids are angry.
Emily is confused. Their friends take sides.

The intertwining story lines and characters are both sad and funny. We
see how people react when they are attracted to others ... or not. We
see how people react when they wonder if their decision was rash. We
see how basically nice people try to do the right thing for themselves
and others, but still mess it up sometimes.

After moving out, Cal heads to a local upscale lounge that seems to be
stocked with gorgeous women and only a handful of men ... every night.
In real life, the line of men waiting to enter would be wrapped around
the block. Still, one of the regulars is Jacob, played by Ryan Gosling.
He is a thing of beauty to look at it and always quick with just the
right line. His science is making women believe he cares about nothing
but them. Cal is discouraged by Jacob's incredible success rate. Jacob
notices Cal's negative vibe and agrees to train him. But first, the
makeover ... wardrobe, haircut and conversation skills.

The polar opposite effect of what you might expect from Hollywood -
these nice people begin to question their direction. Cal longs for
Emily. Emily still thinks about Cal, but dates her co-worker. The son
(Jonah Bobo) has a crush on the older baby-sitter, who has a crush of
her own. Even Jacob falls hard for new attorney Hannah (Emma Stone) who
has just walked out on her wet rag boyfriend (Josh Groban) who offered
her a job, rather than a ring. Oh what a tangled web we weave. And
that's just the stuff I can tell you! Cal's first conquest utilizing
his newly learned skills is a teacher played with full energy by the
terrific Marisa Tomei. She only has a couple of scenes, but as usual,
Ms. Tomei makes the most of her screen time. The baby sitter is played
well by Analeigh Tipton, but it's interesting to note (in real life)
she is 3 days younger than law school grad Hannah (Stone).

All of the actors are top notch here. Steve Carell continues to get
better ... this is a superior movie to Date Night (with Tina Fey).
Julianne Moore is solid, though her character is mostly mopey. Ryan
Gosling and Emma Stone are both outstanding. Gosling is none for mostly
offbeat, dark independent films but shows again how easily he slides
back into sex symbol. Ms. Stone is headed for super-stardom. She was
really good in Easy A and has a star-making turn in the upcoming film
The Help. After that, it's on to the new Spider-Man for her.

Glenn Ficarra and John Requa are the co-directors and were responsible
for the much less mainstream I Love You Phillip Morris, with Jim Carrey
and Ewan McGregor. Surprisingly the film was written by Dan Fogelman,
who is known for his script writing on the animated Cars movies.

No question women will enjoy the film, but the surprise is, many men
will relate to what's going on with the Steve Carell and Ryan Gosling
characters. There is enough humor to keep everyone happy and enough
strong writing to say this is a very good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved Glenn Ficarra and John Requa's "I Love You Philip Morris" but
it must have been terribly frustrating for them, having to wait 2 years
for the release and then, not finding an audience in sufficient
numbers, not even with Jim Carrey. "Crazy Stupid Love" seems like a
totally understanding attempt to go main stream and get the kind of box
office response that will allow them to go on. I think Ficarra and
Requa are two enormous talents - remember their script for "Bad Santa?
- the market needs made them do this silly, complacent, undercooked
comedy. Something so far away from what they've done before that I hope
we haven't lost them forever. I didn't believe for a minute that
Julianne Moore and Steve Carrell were a couple. I love Ryan Gosling but
didn't believe for a minute he will dedicate himself to the Carrell
character. And Carrell's outburst at his son's graduation seems a
monumental miscalculation. What's great about stealing your own son's
thunder. I don't get Carrell, I must confess. I can't wait for him to
play a serial killer. That will get him an Oscar nomination. To make
things even more puzzling, Kevin Bacon plays a joke of a part and he's
photographed without any regard. I'm puzzled and a little bit annoyed.
<|_=00=_|>
I will admit from opening bell, that I do enjoy sappy love movies. It
was a movie that made you laugh,cry,wonder and cover your eyes. Steve
keeps true to his on screen character and his own real life strength
but never forgetting to mumble some sort of funny line even in his most
"sappy-est" of moments. I give this movie two thumbs up for its twist
at the end and keeping it out of viewers sights so well! I do however
wish that they would have developed a little more back story with
Ryan's character but still, a movie to be enjoyed by all. Emma delivers
some nice side humor along with her friend in the movie as well! I
believe Steve may have surpassed expectations of his ability to play
that main love role and still maintain his "funny guy" image.
<|_=00=_|>
This film reminded me a lot of Little Miss Sunshine, a "dysfunctional
family" comedy I also hated. Things that are actually way creepy and/or
disturbing are played for laughs, for example:

- a 13-year-old boy stalking and harrasing his 17-year-old babysitter.
He is relentless: tells her upfront that he masturbates while thinking
about her, embarrasses her with public declarations, texts her nonstop,
cycles to her house in the middle of the night to leave a bundle of
flowers at her door (long after she's begged him to stop)... If he's
old enough to feel an attraction for someone, then he's old enough to
understand the concept of backing off when it is made clear that the
attraction is not mutual (not just that-- the girl tells him repeatedly
that he makes her feel "uncomfortable"-- ignoring someone's feelings is
a trademark mainly of guys who veer on, or actually are, abusive

- a 17-year-old girl obsessing over a 44-year-old dad (Carrell), to the
extent that she overtly disrespects his wife (Moore), who employs her
as a babysitter. Her obsession reaches new lows when she snaps naked
pictures of herself with the intent of seducing Carrell. There was no
logic to why this character would cheapen herself so absurdly just to
win the affections of a nice, but by no means charming or exceptional,
family man. Not to mention, if she hates Moore for breaking up the
marriage, why is she so keen to further sabotage it by throwing herself
at Carrell?

- a 44-year-old dad controlling his 27-year-old daughter's love life,
to the point that he disowns her for having a boyfriend whose past
sexual behaviour he disapproves of, even though he himself has recently
indulged in that exact type of behaviour. What is it with male
characters in films being so patronising and protective of female
characters? Are women in audience meant to find this manly and
flattering? Is this the 1950s, where sexual hypocrisy reigns supreme?
So it seems in the film.

- a 40-something woman (Tomei) who goes to bars on her own to get laid
is totally upset when a random dude she goes home with (Carrell)
doesn't ever call her. Really? Are we meant to believe the sex was that
good? Why must the film depict an older woman seeking sex with a
stranger be so pathetically? Oh, I know-- because only a pathetic woman
would still be single at that age and go to bars seeking
no-strings-attached sex. Again-- are we stuck in Pleasantville or what?

Other old-fashioned clich√©s forced upon the viewer include having an
indiscriminate playboy (Gosling) fall for a near-virginal girl (Stone),
whose purity of heart and earnest innocence no doubt compel him to
abandon his reckless, emotionally stunted, promiscuous ways. To add
insult to injury, the near-virginal girl initially fawns over a
douchebag in a suit (i.e. the financially secure but boring guy), and
is heartbroken when he doesn't propose (girls just always want a ring
on their finger, don't ya know).

Amidst these pathetic story lines (compounded by some really pathetic
dialogue), the only saving grace were a few well-timed and refreshingly
funny jokes, plus Gosling's barely-concealed smirk for having carte
blanche to do absolutely no real acting whatsoever. He merely prances
around in flashy suits and flaunts his pecs.

My final quip: for a film about sexual conquests and awakenings, where
was the chemistry between any of the characters, the steamy innuendos,
the sensual vibes, or the actual sex? I would've killed for random
scenes between Gosling and any of the two dozen women he picks up
throughout the film-- or between him and Stone's quirky friend (also
the token ethnic minority, who conveniently disappears the minute Stone
and Gosling sink into a trite state of happily-ever-after-ness).

Or how about a scene with Moore and Bacon, who were far cuter together
than Moore and Carrell? There's just not even anything in this film
that could be considered a payoff. In this sense, it really reminded me
of that most disingenuous of romcoms that also has "love" in the title
but completely denigrates the concept-- yes, the perplexingly
much-loved turd, Love Actually. Well, Crazy, Stupid Love has joined the
ranks, congrats!
