
As you'd expect, "Man on a Ledge" is a Swiss-cheese plotted heist and
"prove his innocence" movie but taken as just that, it's quite an
enjoyable movie. I suppose after having seen enough of these kinds of
movies, I shouldn't expect perfection in how every plot thread is tied
up since very few movies manage it. However, what the movie does
excellently is setup the plot and build up the situation perfectly.
Just starting as a literal man on a ledge, we see subtle layers added
until we get this full on crescendo of diamond heists, negotiators,
cops, convicts, bad guys, good guys all happening on in a single block
in New York. So, given that you're willing to suppress your tingling
plot-hole sense, it can be an enjoyable movie.

The cast is quite good and the acting and tension is par for the
course. The leads Sam Worthington and Elizabeth Banks do a great job.
Seeing Worthington as an ex-NY cop, ex-convict and Banks as a
negotiator/psychologist with a past is surprising on paper but they
manage to pull it off very well. However, Jamie Bell is one of the
heist-team but his opposite who plays Angie make for some cringe-worthy
comedy, like some Sofia Vergara slapstick in the middle of a tense
situation. Ed Harris looks emaciated but equally sinister as the
villain and there are a host other minor NY characters.

I can hear the Hollywood pitch for the movie in my head, "it's like The
Negotiator combined with The Italian Job but happens in NY and instead
of a hostage situation we have a jumper." And, essentially it's just
that  a movie that heavily recalls other movies from the past except
perhaps for the man on ledge. On a side note, it seems that every NY
movie nowadays has a reference to the OWS movement and what a typical
OWS protester might look like.

The movie is at its best when it clamors for our hero who desperate and
is fighting all odds to clear his name as he shouts from his ledge, "I
am innocent and this is my retrial." The movie is at its worst when
it's ungainly roping in all the plot threads it cast out but can't seem
to put it together. Overall, it's a good enough movie for people who
like these kinds of movies. If you've caught yourself bitterly berating
the many plot holes in heist movies, maybe this isn't for you.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a fun, entertaining action movie. From the previews I
had a good idea of what was going to happen. A guy is on a ledge,
threatening to jump, and he is trying to prove his innocence. I don't
want to give any details away so I won't get too much into the plot.
There are a few twists towards the end that are nice. I would have to
say that the plot wasn't incredibly original. It is similar to other
action, cop movies that we've seen before. Reminded me of 'The
Fugitive' and 'Phone Booth' which were both movies I liked. (No where
near as good as The Fugitive though!) There were good shots from the
'ledge' and some good action scenes that were nice at the theater.
Overall I would definitely recommend this film. Go see it if you like
action/thriller movies!
<|_=00=_|>
I had seen one preview for this film, and it didn't appeal to me at
all. Even the title seemed completely unimaginative, like it was a
shortened elevator pitch. However, I had a chance to see it as a sneak
preview, and I thought, "Well, you can't go terribly wrong with Jamie
Bell, Anthony Mackie, and Ed Harris, and I haven't seen Ed Burns in
anything for awhile. Besides, it's free. What the heck?"

Well, the movie was, on occasion, kind of ridiculous, and it had a
typically predictable ending. Also, Sam Worthington couldn't maintain
his American accent; whenever he started yelling, he sounded very
Australian. Still, the movie has more strengths than weaknesses, and I
even had a couple of gasps and then relieved relaxes. Certainly not the
best action movie I've seen, but far from the worst either. It's a
decent popcorn flick, a good option if you want a movie that isn't
completely mindless but doesn't make your brain hurt either.
<|_=00=_|>
In Sing Sing Correctional Facility, the ex-cop Nick Cassidy (Sam
Worthington) is informed that his appeal was denied by the court. When
his father dies, Nick has authorization to go to the funeral escorted
by two policemen. However, he has a fight with his estranged brother
Joey Cassidy (Jamie Bell) and Nick subdues the police officers and
escape. 

Nick lodges at the 21st floor of the Roosevelt Hotel in New York and he
goes to the ledge through the window and threatens to jump on the
floor, attracting a crowd on the street. The negotiator Lydia Mercer
(Elizabeth Banks) is assigned to convince the unknown jumper to give up
of his intention. Meanwhile Joey and his girlfriend Angela Maria
'Angie' Lopez (Genesis Rodriguez) breaks in the jewelry owned by the
powerful David Englander (Ed Harris). Nick claims innocence to Lydia
and asks her to give more time to him since he will prove that he is
innocent. Lydia believes that Nick is honest or lunatic and decides to
investigate his information.

"Man on a Ledge" is an entertaining action-thriller with a great cast.
The story has the usual plot holes and unrealistic situations, but that
is the funniest part of this type of movie. The unknown Genesis
Rodriguez is a very beautiful actress and my advice to the readers is
to disregard the bad reviews and enjoy this good film. My vote is
seven.

Title (Brazil): "À Beira do Abismo" ("On the Edge of the Abyss")
<|_=00=_|>
A distinguish gentleman checks into a hotel with a view, has a nice
meal and before dessert arrives climbs out on the ledge. But why? The
thriller Man on the Ledge takes you on a journey into a man who seeks
to capture his innocence in crime he did not commit. We learn the
jumper is a former cop and ex-con, Nick Cassidy (Sam, Worthington) who
takes a leap of faith to clear his name fortunately police psychologist
Lydia Mercer (Elizabeth Banks) sweeps in to unlock a forgotten past.
Man on the Ledge is a suspense filled thriller that will keep you on
edge for the truth of this twisted tale.

This movie has a good story with not too much violence or profanity. It
kept my interest and has some good special effects.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not going to dance around and avoid spoiling so I'll keep it short.
It was a good movie. It apparently has flaws in the plot line, but
while you're enjoying the movie, IT WON'T MATTER. Sam Worthington
(Terminator: Salvation, Avatar, Clash Of The Titans) is a bonafide
action star (and better actor than Channing Tatum). The supporting cast
was refreshing! I haven't seen Burnsy (Edward Burns) play a likable
character in a while. Jamie Bell(Jumper, The Eagle) plays the scrawny
little brother with perfection. Elizabeth Banks (Zack and Miri Makes A
Porno) seems to be cut from the cloth of a Tea Leone sans the raspy
voice. Playing the down trodden detective who reluctantly has the task
of talking down the jumper. And Ed Harris (The Rock, A History Of
Violence) as the bad guy. What else do I need to say? Enjoy the movie!
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer doesn't give away too much - I thought yeah, maybe.
However, I won free tickets so there I was at preview night. And guess
what? The movie turned out to be a pleasant surprise. It manages to
hold you on the edge of your seat. There are several turns and twists.
Plus it's the guy from Avatar, Sam Worthington who plays a former cop,
now fugitive,Ex-con Nick Cassidy. Never seen him in anything else, just
Avatar 3 times. He's sexy and believable. His Australian accent did
come out a few times, but on the whole it was endearing. The only thing
he takes off is his jacket and "the ledge". Most of the movie takes
place entirely on a N.Y. Manhattan 21st floor hotel ledge. The crowd
notices, and YEs we have a JUMPER. I loved the crowd scenes, I wished
there were more close ups on some of the screaming dialogues. There
were great characters in the crowd, News team and your typical good/bad
cops, Swat and Tactical teams. Oh, yes the fire department. The cast
was well chosen. Ed Harris, played the sinister millionaire perfectly.
God he's good. Jamie Bell, plays our leads' brother...Joey Cassidy-he's
awesome too. He tricks and worries us several times throughout the
film. His partner in crime, Kyra Sedgwick, plays Suzie Morales, his
girlfriend with a past, is beautiful, (for all you straight men-
especially when she's in her undies) and their dialogue is total comedy
slapstick. I loved them, I totally laughed and wanted to see more.
Elizabeth Banks, the police psychologist, was perfect also in every
way. The movie does not have any major violence or profanity but the
heist is exciting. I liked it and would see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't be put off by the rather boring title, this is a quirky little
movie that works quite well and will give acrophobics a dizzying run
for their money.

I have to say that I figured a movie in which the plot revolves around
some guy on a ledge would be relatively slow paced. However the film is
in fact surprisingly fast-paced with the viewer largely unaware of the
underlying plot even as our man steps out on to his ledge. 

The characters and their parts in the plot are revealed as we go, with
plenty to keep the viewer on the edge of their seat as our disgraced
ex-cop dangles precariously on his ledge. 

The revelations come thick and fast, and at one point you may well be
asking yourself whether there are actually any good cops in this movie
(luckily for our "jumper", there are!). 

There is one really good action scene/stunt in the movie which is
difficult to describe without ticking the "spoiler" box so I will leave
you to discover what was for me the best jaw-dropping moment of the
film.

And just in case anyone reading this review has already watched the
movie and was wondering, Genesis Rodriguez stripping down to her
underwear was my second best jaw-dropper scene (sad, I know!)

Not an epic but a nevertheless entertaining movie that is well worth
watching, and there is even a nice little twist towards the end.
<|_=00=_|>
'MAN ON A LEDGE': Three Stars (Out of Five) 

Sam Worthington stars in this action thriller about an ex-cop turned
escaped con threatening to commit suicide by jumping from a Manhattan
hotel room while a diamond heist is going on in the building next door.
The film costars Elizabeth Banks, Jamie Bell, Ed Harris, Edward Burns,
Anthony Mackie, Kyra Sedgwick and the gorgeous Genesis Rodriguez (also
seen recently in the Will Ferrell comedy 'CASA DE MI PADRE'). It was
directed by Asger Leth and written by Pablo F. Fenjves. Despite a good
cast the film is just mediocre entertainment; it has an interesting
premise but does little with it.

Worthington plays Nick Cassidy, an ex-cop framed for a crime he didn't
commit; stealing a diamond from David Englander (Harris). He breaks out
of prison and flees to a Manhattan hotel where he threatens to commit
suicide. Cassidy requests Detective Lydia Mercer (Banks), a police
psychologist, to negotiate with. As Mercer tries to talk Cassidy down a
diamond heist is being conducted in the building next door by Nick's
brother Joey Cassidy (Bell).

The movie is interesting at first but how it plays out is a little less
than thrilling. The directing is adequate at best and the screenplay is
lacking involvement. Worthington, Banks, Bell and the rest do the best
with their parts though and it's nice to see Worthington continue to
branch out a little. The film is forgettable but a little more than
mildly entertaining.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://youtu.be/UUizoy5DkRo
<|_=00=_|>
was looking forward to see this movie since i saw the trailers and now
that I have seen. 

I thought it even better then it thought t be. 

This movie had me on edge of seat thought the movie, I had no idea what
going to happen next. 

There was some very good tense scenes in this movie that really got me
of seat and shouting at the TV. 

There were some really good twist and turns in this movie that I didn't
see coming at all. 

I Thought the acting was really good from the whole cast and Extras
too. 

I expected a good movie but ended up seeing a great movie 

8/10
