
While I was scrolling through the different titles available this
weekend, I chanced upon "Larry Crowne". Looked it up on IMDb; not so
good - an average of 5/10. Scroll down further and voil√†! Written by
Tom Hanks himself, gotta see it. And I'm glad I did.

First, let me get the 'acting' part out of the way - It's good. Not
mind-blowing, but most certainly good enough to be worth the US$9
weekend price of a movie ticket here in Singapore. The actors were good
enough that I felt connected, and that's as good as it ever has to be.

As for the plot - nothing jaw-droppingly complicated and twisted, but
then again neither was Forest Gump. And what a big success that movie
proved to be. Don't expect character development to blow you away, but
it did, at the very least, impress me.

Of course, if you walk into the theater expecting "Harold & Kumar" or
"Chuck & Larry" humor, you would most definitely be sorely
disappointed. Some others have criticized the film, saying that it had
"cheap laughs" at best. Now that isn't necessarily true, because it all
depends on what your expectations are.

So hear this - Larry Crowne isn't an all-out-LOL-fest, it's a wholesome
film sprinkled with subtle, clever, and thoughtful humor.

In my opinion, this film was an excellent cross-section representation
of the sandwiched American Middle-class - too rich to qualify for
welfare, too poor to save any money. Most people (outside the United
States) wouldn't know the America shown throughout this film - where
folks are priced out of their own states, where they attend community
colleges that aren't crazy over keg parties and crawling with
bikini-straddling blonds, where students have to juggle work and
school, where they might have to choose the former over the latter too
often.

Hollywood glamorizes the American lifestyle each and every chance it
gets, and this film provides a rare glimpse into the real America where
most people reside.

All things considered, I would consider this film a feel-good movie,
and there's much more to it than meets the eye. If you enjoyed Forest
Gump, you'd most likely enjoy this one - even if the feel-goodness sets
in slightly more subtly.

One final thing - I've never written a review for any movie before,
ever. But I felt that the reviews here (as of 9th July 11) were doing
Larry Crowne such injustice that I had to write this to balance it out.

Cheers.
<|_=00=_|>
To begin, I'm not sure what some of the other reviewers expected to see
in this film. Larry Crowne is not a sizzling drama, a fast paced action
movie, or an over-the-top comedy, & it's not likely to win a bunch of
Oscars for acting, screenplay or anything else for that matter. What is
is, however, is a well written, fun movie that is fairly well acted &
very enjoyable. 

The story does take a little bit to unfold, but does so in an organic
way as not to give away too much too soon. The cast was well chosen & I
found the characters to have been well developed & really fun people.
Like most other films, there is certainly some creative license taken
in that most everybody in it is funny and likable, which is what you
want from a film like this. If only reality were filled with such great
people, we should all be so lucky.

There are a few loose ends that may have been stitched up a bit better
(per several of the reviews I have read) but I'm not sure that was
necessary at all to the story. Moviegoers these days seem to have a
need for everything to be spelled out to the Nth degree. If it wasn't
critical for the story to unfold, it didn't make its way into the
picture. There's something to be said for movies that leave a bit to
the imagination for the viewer after the film is over, Keeps you
thinking about it for awhile after you've left your seat.

I would watch it again. I left feeling good, with a smile on my face,
which is what I was after upon deciding to watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
Back in 1996, Tom Hanks made his debut as a director with the mediocre
That Thing You Do!. Now, 15 years later, he decided to make his second
movie as a filmmaker with Larry Crowne, which despite not being
something brilliant, kept me very entertained, and I appreciated its
intention of recovering a honest, kind and inoffensive style of comedy,
which seems extinct nowadays.

The publicity of Larry Crowne suggests the film is a typical romantic
comedy; however, the truth is that the screenplay aspired to something
more complicated, which does not exactly fit into the romantic formula,
but which neither stays very far from its established subjects. Let's
say that the couple meets, falls in love...and nothing else. There are
not any lachrymose revelations nor unexpected twists; we simply have
the gradual revelation of compatible spirits whose attraction with each
other is not exactly physical or sexual, but the result of solitary
lives who might improve a little bit with some intimate contact.
Besides, I guess that the relaxed ending might disappoint to those who
were expecting a big romantic gesture, or a declaration of eternal
love. However, I liked that minimalistic tone, as well as the pleasant
humor which rounds around this passive love story.

But that is not all, because parallel to the incipient romance, we
witness the main character's evolution...with which the screenplay also
takes a very interesting road. Larry Crowne is not one of those movies
about the "loser" who becomes a "winner" thanks to the magic of love,
the popularity or the use of phrases such as "be yourself". The main
character is the same person on the beginning and at the end of the
movie; but the things he lives introduce subtle changes in his
attitude, his comprehension of the world, and even his nature, leaving
us the impression that his evolution is just starting. And now that I
think so, I guess that that is the point from the movie: sowing the
seeds of the change of the main character and making us to imagine his
future flowering.

As for the performances, I do not have any complaints either. Hanks
makes a solid work in the leading role, and I also liked the work from
the supporting cast, highlighting Cedric The Entertainer, Malcolm
Barrett and George Takei. Finally...Julia Roberts, who co-stars the
movie with Hanks. I am not a big fan of hers, because there were
various films in which I did not like her performances (two examples:
Erin Brockovich and Dying Young). However, there have been a few
occasions in which she was able to bring competent works, like in Larry
Crowne. Her "Hollywood star" status never interferes with her
performance in here, which I found honest, detailed and totally
credible.

The complaint I have against Larry Crowne is that some scenes feel a
bit repetitive. For the rest, I enjoyed this film pretty much despite
not being something excellent, and I think it deserves a recommendation
because of its many positive elements.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. I view Tom Hanks as one of the
all-time giants among movie actors. He is true Hollywood royalty. When
I heard he was producing, directing, co-writing and starring in a new
film, I assumed it was his first step in becoming the new Clint
Eastwood. Sadly, Mr. Hanks broke the number rule of movie-making: have
a point to make or a story to tell. What we get is a 1980's flashback
when mainstream movies could be successful just by putting nice people
on screen.

And nice people is what we get. Tom Hanks plays the ultimate nice guy
as Larry Crowne. Crowne is the type who attracts nice people and makes
them even nicer. Even when he loses his job, we never doubt that this
nice guy will land on his feet and even be better off eventually. Oh no
you don't ... stop trying to guess the ending! Other nice people are
... EVERY STUDENT in the speech class taught by Ms. Roberts, the L.A.
scooter club that recruits Crowne, the Marine owner of a diner who
hires Crowne, the lottery-winning neighbors of Crowne and the dean of
students at the community college. The nicest one of all is Talia,
played delightfully by Gugu Mbatha-Raw (from the awful "Undercovers"
show that lasted less than one season).

The closest thing to a bad guy is Roberts' husband played by Bryan
Cranston (Breaking Bad). His fault? He is a bit lazy (after writing two
books) and he likes to look at swimsuit models on the internet. Sure,
when the movie starts, Ms. Roberts character is at her lowest. She
clearly drinks too much to mask her misery, though it's never clear
just why she is so miserable.

But this is not a movie about conflict or tension or anything not nice
... even though it begins with a nice guy getting laid off from his
job. The story and screenplay are co-written by Hanks and Nia Vardalos.
You will remember her as the creative force behind the gem "My Big Fat
Greek Wedding". Unfortunately, this film is nowhere close to the level
of that one.

If Mr. Hanks' goal is to become an important filmmaker in the vein of
Clint Eastwood, or even Frank Capra, he will need to study the films
that have made him rich and famous. Or at least study the best
screwball comedies or rom-coms. A good movie must have CONFLICT! There
needs to be something that creates interest for the viewer. Simple,
bland, generic, nice, likable and swell can all play a part ... but
they can't be EVERY part! My two favorite things about the film are
George Takei and Gugu Mbatha-Raw. Mr. Takei (of Star Trek fame)
provides some of the few laughs in the film as a very meticulous
Economics professor. His voice and mannerisms inspire us to smile and
ultimately laugh outloud. Gugu is just terrific as the idealistic
free-spirit who transforms Crowne and lights up her every scene. Can't
wait to see what she does next.

As you might expect, supporting actors lined up to work with Hanks and
Julia. Among those not mentioned above are Cedric the Entertainer and
Taraji B. Henson (Crowne's neighbors), Wilmer Valderrama (Gugu's
boyfriend), Rita Wilson (the mortgage officer), Pam Grier (professor),
Grace Gummel (Meryl Streep's daughter as the 'pasta' speech student),
and it's always nice to see Bob Stevenson on screen. He is one of the
more underutilized deadpan comedic talents around.

There is little doubt that this film will find an audience. An audience
that demands little from a movie. There is nothing wrong with two hours
of back-slapping and giddy smiling ... as long as you get a story to go
along with it.
<|_=00=_|>
I love Tom Hanks and I love his directing style. That Thing You Do
remains one of my favorite movies ever and this film, Larry Crowne, has
the same feel about it, though the subject matter is completely
different. 

I didn't expect too much before watching the movie because of the
lukewarm reception by some of the critics. But I have learned not to
rely too heavily on professional reviewers because I so often disagree
with them. To me, a film is successful if it is satisfying. If there is
one word to describe Larry Crowne it is satisfying - in a feel-good
sort of way.

This is not Hanks' greatest film, but it doesn't set out to be. It
accomplishes what Hanks seems to have set out to do. It tells a story
about a man who, after getting a divorce and then being fired from his
job, has to cope with reevaluating his life and reshuffling his
priorities. I like the way it didn't revert to the banal going-into-
deep-depression and feeling-sorry-for-myself modes. Hanks' character
takes the next logical step to being fired for not having enough
education and signs up for college. And he succeeds brilliantly at it. 

Julia Roberts plays one of his college professors who is struggling
with burn out and a dysfunctional marriage. She nails the character,
Mrs. Tainot, beautifully. But the best supporting character is played
by Gugu Mbatha-Raw. She is gorgeous but in a cute way, not in a runway
model way. She plays the free spirited, scooter-riding college friend
who takes over without asking and proceeds to do a make-over on Crowne.
It works, though, as Crowne's image is substantially improved by her
wardrobe and hair style changes on him.

I won't give away the ending, but there are no surprises here. You
wouldn't expect one from a Tom Hanks film. There's nothing cutting edge
about it either. But despite one or two plot turns that force you to
suspend your disbelief for a fraction of a second (such as actually
getting fired after years as a successful employee because your boss
feels your lack of education is hurting your potential to be promoted),
the film succeeds. There are no cringe moments, no vulgarity (I don't
even think it used its one-allowed, obligatory F-word), and no tedious
scenes of theatrical irony. It's just a simple, entertaining, feel-good
movie that makes you happy. And sometimes, that's what a movie should
be.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm amazed that critics give a thumbs up to the incredible stupid film
Bad Teacher, but give a thumbs down to the funny charming film Larry
Crowne, go figure.

Larry Crowne(Tom Hanks), a middle aged man, who works at U-mart, and
loves life and his job. But gets let go, when it gets discovered, that
he never went college. So Larry does not know to do, his friend and
neighbor(Cedric the Entertainer) tells him, that he should go to
college. So Larry agrees, he signs up for some classes. Larry makes
friends with some classmates, and also befriends his teacher named Mrs
Tainot(Julia Roberts), who is uptight and cynical. But how will this
all play out for Larry? 

Tom Hanks is enjoyable as always, so was his directing. He never hogs
the spotlight on himself too much, he lets every supporting person
shine in there own way, all the actors seem relaxed with Hanks
directing, and it shows in there performances. Tom Hanks and Julia
Roberts have great chemistry. A great blend of comedy and drama, so if
you want to get away from raunchiness, and see something light on it's
feet, then Larry Crowne is that movie for you.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot believe the reviews I am reading for this movie! I would have
walked out except I thought my friend was enjoying it, after leaving
the theater I found out she did not like it as much as I did. From the
beginning when Larry gets fired, it felt so stiff, acting and
screenplay was not done well. He goes off to college, big surprise
here! Meets young, hot girl who will change his appearance, and make
him better looking when he was fine the way he was. All this movie
promoted is what is wrong with America, change your looks to suit
everyone else, foreclose on your home instead of paying your bills,
divorce your husband and as he is getting pulled over for DUI laugh at
him, etc. Hello, Julia Roberts is an alcoholic in the film and yet she
and Hanks hook up and both of them have issues to work on, no chemistry
at all between them. When they kissed it was so fake. It could have
been so good, the right actors were there, loved the economics
professor, when he was on screen it was the only time I got a good
laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw it at European premiere. Overall it is a nice comedy. Not for hard
laughs, but a somewhat sentimental story about an excellent salesman
who is fired, because he doesn't have a college degree. Hence he goes
back to community college and ends up falling in love.

So far so good. The entire cast is good and Julia is excellent as a
hard drinking disillusioned teacher. Tom's direction is a bit slow. So
is the build up of the story. It seems to move endlessly among A story,
B story trying to please everyone. 

Tom decided on a strange, sepia colored 70s look for this one. It's so
unreal, or maybe real, I quiet was turned off by it. I suppose for a
mature adult audience in their mid 40s this one works. Teenagers will
see the Transporter CGI nonsense, while their parents will have a good
time with this love-comedy-drama story.
<|_=00=_|>
'LARRY CROWNE': Two and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

Tom Hanks directs his second feature film (after 1996's 'THAT THING YOU
DO'). He also co-wrote the screenplay with Nia Vardalos (the writer and
star of 'MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING', which Hanks produced) and stars in
the film with Julia Roberts. With all that high caliber A list talent
attached you'd think the film would be something special (especially
for a summer release) but it's not. It's just an average romantic
comedy with nothing witty, new or original to offer. There are a few
laughs and touching moments but for the most part the film is mediocre
at best.

Hanks plays the title role of Larry Crowne, a humble and well liked
employee of a successful retail store who suddenly finds himself laid
off when the store has to resort to downsizing in order to maintain
high profits. Although he was extremely good at his job (and employee
of the month nine times) he's let go due to his lack of college
experience. Forced to sell his house and his car to get by he decides
to go back to school in order to better himself and improve his chances
of finding employment. Once at school he finds new friends in fellow
outcasts and develops a crush on his speech teacher Mercedes Tainot
(Roberts). Mrs. Tainot has lost all passion in her job and love for her
porn addicted husband (Bryan Cranston) and finds inspiration in Larry.
Larry of course finds new inspiration in life (as well) as his whole
world begins to change.

The film is funny at times (nothing laugh out loud but it is mildly
amusing) and it's also inspirational to a certain extent (but nothing
we haven't seen before). With Hanks and Roberts starring in the film
you just expect an attempt at something more at least. It just feels so
happy in it's mediocrity, which is a little bizarre coming from what
appears to be a big summer movie (at first glance) with two of
Hollywood's biggest stars in the leads. I loved Hank's first
directorial effort, 'THAT THING YOU DO', and it's actually one of my
favorite films of his. So knowing he has so much more to offer makes
this all the more disappointing. Not a bad film just very far from a
good one.

Watch our review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1QlrJnwsHOM
<|_=00=_|>
Why is the movie getting such a bad rap?? It's really a very charming
film with wonderful acting by Hanks and Roberts as well as a very good
support cast. While the plot itself is no great shakes, it's very
interesting, especially in these times of disheavelment. I know a lot
of people as well as critics don't like it. Amazed. It's a 'feel good'
kind of movie with no villains. Maybe that's why it doesn't sell to the
average movie goer who likes foul language, violence, special effects
and fast paced editing with hand held cameras yet. This is an old
fashioned movie that was made in the 50-60's, so it's not relevant
today? Too bad. See this one and you won't be disappointed. AND DON'T
READ THOSE UNKIND COMMENTS.
