
Noel Clarke showed a lot of promise as a independent British film maker
with the excellent Adulthood, the second part of Kidulthood of which he
also wrote. Both films had an honest and frightening portrayal of youth
culture today. What made these films stand out was the depth of the
characters he created not seen in others films trying to portray the
same subject of youth gone wrong, the audience actually cared about
where these people's lives would lead to. Clarke is a film maker with
something bold to say and has his own style with plenty of potential to
be one of uk's top film makers. Unfortunately his latest film 4.3.2.1
doesn't confirm this.

4.3.2.1 is a film that promises a lot with poster tagline says 4 girls,
3 days, 2 cities, 1 chance, its an exciting set up. 4 friends stories
and lives told separately all of which become linked through a diamond
heist with some rough characters in pursuit. This type of story telling
has worked very well for Tarantino's classic Pulp Fiction and Doug
Limans "Go!". In fact this film has more in common with "Go!" in terms
of plot. You only have to see both these films to know that when done
right this type of story telling can be exciting, fresh and damn good
fun but Clarke just doesn't seem to have a grip of the story and where
its going, it could have done with a better edit, each of the girls
stories are overlong and drawn out where they could have been fast,
sharp and snappy with only Shannon's story (the first to be shown)
showing excitement and gripping an audience, such a shame as this was a
promising start. The New York sequence felt poorly executed and
unexplained, a poor attempt at a cross over potential with cameo's from
Kevin Smith (which was more irritating then funny) and Eve (quite
pointless).

The performances from the four leads do save the film from being a
total failure, particularly from Ophelia Lovibond and Emma Roberts.
Clarke clearly shows his gift for writing strong and rich characters.
Some people have cried stereotype's for the four leads, with this i
disagree in fact i feel all four of them were girls you could route for
and were the strongest aspect of the film The sad part is i really
wanted to love this film, i had high expectations and hoped it could be
a winning cross over for Clarke. This film overall failed to give me
the same excitement i had for his previous films. The plot and pacing
felt uneven, the whole film was half an hour too long and more
importantly not fun at all making 4.3.2.1 feel like a wasted
opportunity to wider Clarke's audiences. I believe the best is yet to
come from the award winning film maker but this is not the best example
of his talent only showing a small amount of his potential. Maybe go
back to basics next time!
<|_=00=_|>
4.3.2.1, is a British-teen aimed film with standard Brit ingredients of
guns, sex etc. I went with my mum as she (like me) enjoys gritty street
Brit flicks such as Kidulthood, Adulthood, Bullet Boy etc.

Admittedly, my mum was the oldest in the premiere screening, and it was
a feisty atmosphere, but I was used to this from when I went to the
opening screening of Adulthood.

It started off slow. It was just quite a lot of things happening, with
little sense or links between them, but as the characters divided off
into 4, the story really kicked in. It was similar in style to Pulp
Fiction in the fact it follows the individual stories of the
characters, all of which have links that connect them together
throughout. This was very, very well done throughout and included
flashbacks between the switching of characters so the audience could
remember what had happened.

It was very well directed, had a good flow to it, and had lots of
comedic parts, all of which were subtlety put in to it so to not make
it into a predominately comedic film.

The film was well rounded off, with me actually leaving quite
surprised. The ending left scope for a sequel (which I know looks to be
in the pipeline) and I actually enjoyed it far more than I expected.

Most films I see at the cinema, I leave thinking I don't want to see it
again, not because it was rubbish, but because I felt I'd enjoyed it
enough not to need to re-watch it. This, however, was simply
brilliantly made, had a strong plot and left me wanting more. My mum
even enjoyed it more than me, and she's 40 :P Although not my highest
rated film this year so far, this does go down as probably the most
enjoyed and well worked film I've seen this year.
<|_=00=_|>
I had high hopes for this film. British films tend to have depth to
them and I like Noel Clarke. However, this was almost embarrassing to
watch. The writing is on par with those terrible Olsen movies and the
plot isn't much better. The film seemingly was just written to string
together various scenes of the girls in their underwear, sex scenes and
lesbian kissing. The girls are beautiful and the cinematography is cool
but the actual film is crap. Noel Clarke is fun to watch as an actor,
but his writing leaves a lot to be desired. It really is like something
the Disney channel would write just littered with swear words. Its a
shame. I really did want to like this film but I was left so
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Not a bad film by any stretch, nor great. Never quite delivers on the
promise it shows.

A very good cast, some excellent cameos, Ben Miller for one, not sure
what Ben Shepherd had done to see his career sink to being a hack on
News 24 but him too, Kevin Smith & the guy from Criminal Minds. The
acting in the main pretty solid. The plot was a good one with the
diamond theft, but never fully utilised. Likewise, the New York / girl
being videoed storyline never really developed and went nowhere, nor
did the Michelle Ryan character.

It was hindered by too much style over substance with the editing, a
few too many vag jokes, drawn out sex scenes & the general girl power
feel (although at the right times it was well executed).

The diamond theft, did seem to generate an extraordinary level of news
& media coverage for days upon end & some of the girls transformations
from 20 year old student to criminal mastermind needed some disbelief
suspended, but for under 30's enough to warrant a watch & it comes
together pretty well in the end, if a little uninspiring.
<|_=00=_|>
Noel Clarke's 4.3.2.1 is wellÂ… okay.

The story is simple: 4 friends find some stolen gems and the thieves
want them back.

The movie is split into four separate time lines one for each girl
which Clarke uses to explore their lives, relationships and
personalities over 3 days while they work out how to deal with being
thrust into this situation.

The four leads, Emma Roberts, Tamsin Egerton, Shanika Warren-Marland,
and Ophelia Lovibond give up great performances and Michelle Ryan,
clearly relishes her role as chief baddie gives us a really awful
performance. Clarke fans will be disappointed to learn that he only
appears for few scenes. Cameos from Mandy Patinkin, Nick Briggs, Ben
Stiller, Kevin Smith and Camille Coduri.

The direction is okay and the action has the usual music track to make
it all look like things are moving, the script contains a couple of
crap lines but in general it's an okay movie. And that is that. 5 out
of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Noel Clarke risks his growing reputation as writer/director with a
quirky but clever crime caper. Yes it is very removed from Adulthood
and Kidulthood but it is still a well crafted piece of writing and
directing, with subtle use of a story seen from four different angles.
The 4-3-2-1 of the title is neatly explained during the plot in more
ways than one.

The leads are all worthy of their billing with performances as diverse
as you could wish for. Shanika Warren-Markland is a brilliantly mouthy
Kerrys, Emma Roberts a wimpish but loving Joanne, Ophelia Lovibond as
the misunderstood and misunderstanding Shannon, and Tamsin Egerton as
the sophisticated rich kid musician Cassandra. On their own they are
all reduced to big time losers in the course of the Friday to Sunday
the film spans, but, together they triumph. And on the subject of
smooth performers there is the deliciously dangerous Michelle Ryan, as
Kelly, Noel Clarke as Tee and a great cast of support.

The script makes much more sense as the film progresses towards its
climax, and the story is cleverly unpeeled before our eyes. The humour
expressed within this film both in dialogue and sight gags suggests it
is to be taken tongue in cheek and that may upset some of Mr Clarke's
followers but not me. I enjoyed every minute of its slightly less than
120 minutes.

For entertainment value alone the film is easily worthy of 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Nothing left unexplained. I had an absolute ball watching. Okay so it
flashes back more than a digital camera however something about that
amused me and kept me eager to find out how that fits in the sequence.
I love the filming technique. I will be the first to admit that I was
confused. Thankfully as soon as I thought it didn't make sense I was
like "oh, that makes sense, now I get it". Brilliant! I must be a
critic, because i critically claim I am glad I watched it. Very complex
and covers a lot of hot discussion topics. I really only watched it for
Emma but I found that all the cast is pretty good at doing there thing.
So if I got mad when Joanne couldn't do her bathroom thing that's
understandable right? I don't know what else to say it was a smart film
that kept me hyped up and interested in finishing. As soon as it was
over I thought, again!? Round of applause keep the Pringles coming!
<|_=00=_|>
If you watch the trailer, you may expect a non-stop, roller coaster,
girl-power, action thrill ride. Don't be fooled. While the movie itself
is fun to watch and is a good distraction, it is not by any means a
white-knuckle ride. There are exciting parts, but really it is the
story of 4 troubled teens from different walks of life and their
dealing with a tumultuous three days. The heist that is supposedly the
center of the movie, is rather a sideline to the screwed up few days
the girls go through. Weird appearances by Kevin Smith, Eve, and Mandy
Patinkin.

Overall, it is fun to watch, but you can't take it too seriously. Will
it change your life? No. Is it worth an afternoon distraction? Yes.
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly I was a fan of Noel Clarke. I thought the acclaimed Kidulthood
was very well written. Adulthood was again very well written and really
made a statement about the youth of today. 

And then comes 4,3,2,1............Jesus Christ......What the hell was
he thinking 

This film is wrong on so many levels. This film was nothing more than a
pathetic attempt at trying to emulate American directors like Tarantino
in a tongue in cheek ridiculous story. The story itself was absolutely
atrocious, unclear and unrealistic. The dialogue was terrible and the
acting was so stereotypical that by half way through I really couldn't
have given a toss how it ended...I just wanted it to end and the pain
to stop. 

I honestly took Mr. Clarke for an upcoming writer/director who has a
voice and something to say about the world. I would have compared him
to people like Mike Leigh and Danny Boyle early in their careers and
thought after his first two successes he would be looking to make real
life films that make a real statement, films like Nil by mouth or 21
grams. 

I think what has happened is that he won his BAFTA and it went straight
to his head. His agent has been on at him to make something...anything,
and he thought that because of his success he could bang out a decent
budget action comedy with plenty of female flesh and sex talk, stick a
bit of Tarantino and guy Ritchie in their and hey presto...and to top
it all off I'll give myself the most egotistical and arrogant part in
the Movie...because I obviously have that opinion of himself. 

I myself are a young upcoming film maker and I must say that it upset
me a great deal watching this...just thinking what I could have made
with a tenth of his budget. I just hope to God that the film does not
make it's money back and Noel is brought crashing back down to earth
and realises that in order to make a good film...you actually have to
do some work. 

Thank you
<|_=00=_|>
Actor, writer and director decides he wants to write female characters
and makes the film with fours interlinked perspective 4.3.2.1.

It is a Tarantino attempt to make a fast paced film with a twist of
Modern French cinema but it misfires.

The film starts promising enough with Shannon's story but loses focus
with Cassandra's story where we suddenly end up in New York and Kevin
Smith on the plane journey there.

The film concludes with Joanne's story where the interlinked events
come together but it does rely on some strange coincidences. The four
female leads inject a lot of vibrancy and spirit but there are just too
many unsympathetic side characters which leaves you uninvolved with
only Alexander Siddig playing the Brazilian dad being the most warm
hearted in his brief appearance.

As always with Clarke's films there are a lot of Doctor Who links: We
have Sean Pertwee (son of Jon Pertwee.) Emma Roberts father (Eric
Roberts) played the Master so has Kate Magowan's husband (John Simm).
Camille Coduri and Nicholas Briggs make guest appearances who were
regulars during Clarke's stint in Doctor Who.
