
This movie is terrible. Honestly, can you be surprised? It's a movie
that's been remade and rebooted a hundred times, who can expect the new
"sequel" released the first week of January to be good? I mean I saw
this movie on Netflix smashed out of my skull and honestly I just
wanted to see some cool kills, fun campiness, a little tittage, and
maybe, just maybe, passable acting and a decent story to hold it
together. I got none of those with Texas Chainsaw 3D. Not a one.

Boobs are teased all throughout the movie but it's all tease and no
show. That's a weird way to start the review but I mean why in the hell
would you put a ton of clear ass shots whenever these girls are walking
around and not throw in a couple nip slips? Ugh, whatever.

I really can't go down the checklist because everything about this
movie is awful. Every single goddamn thing. I won't spoil anything but
they butcher Leatherface in this movie, even more than they did in
other remakes. But this is actually a "sequel" which makes it even more
f*cking stupid. They show footage of the original film at the beginning
as if to give a recap of its "predecessor" and you start off like "okay
they're doing something different at least" but within the first ten
minutes it gets so unbelievably dumb. It's an achievement how dumb this
movie is, really. Even Leatherface deserves better than this.

I'll sum up the plot as quickly as possible: The pretty eyed slut from
True Detective (Alexandra Daddario) inherits a house from her
grandmother who was there during the massacre of Leatherface's family
20 years ago or something, because pretty eyes was the baby that
survived the massacre, which makes her Leatherface's cousin. But
Leatherface survived the massacre too and doesn't know this girl even
exists. So she and her friends decide to go to the house but of course
Leatherface is still there up to his usual shenanigans, and the body
count ensues. But in a peculiar turn of events, on the way to the house
they pick up a hitchhiker that looks like an Abercrombie & Fitch model
(a clear homage to the first film) and when they get to the house, the
hot chick and her dumb friends realize they forgot something or for
some stupid reason they have to leave. So this idiot girl who was
blessed with this gorgeous million dollar mansion from out of nowhere,
lets the hitchhiker HOUSESIT after knowing the guy for a whole FIVE
F*CKING MINUTES. I can't stress enough how dumb this movie is.

So then I started watching Texas Chainsaw as a comedy, and I gotta
admit, I got a few good belly laughs. The acting is hysterical, the
dialogue is even more ridiculous, the 3D attempts are hilariously awful
- almost every scene in this movie is comedy gold. I would give it a
high score as a spoof but this movie clearly is trying to be serious,
which makes it all the more sad (and funny... but sad). The lead
actress is blatantly just there as eye candy. She can't act worth sh*t.
And guess what. She's the best actor in the movie!

Maybe it's just because I watched this after The Babadook, I don't
know, but I really really hated this movie. The writing is some of the
worst I've ever seen in a movie. I guess it holds some merit as a
"horror" comedy, assuming you can get past the fact that there are no
scares, no boobs, no worthwhile gore, no good kills, no good actors, no
suspense, no {insert anything else required for a good horror movie}.

In conclusion, Texas Chainsaw 3D sucks balls. It's just a disgrace to
horror films and is the epitome of everything wrong with the genre
today. It's an abysmal, horrific, blasphemous, piece of sh*t, Hollywood
fartpile of a movie. F*ck you Texas Chainsaw. F*ck you with a chainsaw
right up the ass.
<|_=00=_|>
Pure garbage. They set the movie in 2012, 39 years after the original.
The only character that aged was the Sheriff. The main character was a
baby in 1973 but is miraculously only about 22 or 23 in 2012 (which
they clearly display on a grave stone, 2012). Also in 2012 smart phones
can stream live HD video in real time over a call. I wonder how much
their data plan is? Which, by the way, brought the film from ridiculous
to absurd especially given that streaming the video served no purpose
in the story or the scene. A speaker phone would have sufficed and my
disbelief would not have been called back from suspension. So yeah,
those are just TWO of the myriad issues this movie has. This was worse
than the remake, by far. There isn't a film maker in the world who
could make a good sequel to the original, even Tobe Hooper couldn't do
it and HE directed the original. The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1974) is
a perfect film, it needs no more exposition, but this is the era of the
retro cash grab. So everything cool from the 70's and 80's gets dragged
out and crapped on for the youth market and they think the winks and
nods to the source material will tickle us old fans nostalgia gland.
Well screw you Hollywood. It doesn't. It's lazy film making. What I
paid 10 bucks for was nothing more than a 1sr draft script chock full
of slasher clich√©s and inept story telling. You know what made the
original so brilliant? It wasn't about anything! It was simple, I dare
say even plausible. But this movie BEGAN in implausible territory and
only sank deeper into the abyss. Stay away if you have a brain. CGI
gore, 'nough said. The 3D was not even adding any degree of anything,
it was more distracting than anything, which is more the format, 3D
just sucks.
<|_=00=_|>
Being the extremely huge Leatherface fan that I am, I have been looking
forward to seeing this movie since the first posters came out.
Literally have been counting down the days. I rushed to the theater on
opening night super excited because the Texas Chainsaw Massacre 3D
facebook page shared a lot of information about the making of the movie
and I expected it to be the best one yet. HOWEVER....

I was so unbelievably disappointed in this movie it sickens me.

If someone didn't know anything about the previous TCM movies, they
would think this was just your everyday horny teenager horror movie. I
believed that the TCM movies were always better than that, but now my
opinion has changed.

The movie started out good, and had some good background information to
later understand the present scenes. However, once we met the main
characters of the movie it was obvious that it wasn't going to meet my
expectations. And the fact that Trey Sonz was in this movie(even though
his acting skills WERE better than I expected) totally ruined it for
me. Also the makers of the movie made a huge error with the the main
character's age (should be at least 40.) The killings were not that
severe, the only 3D parts were with the chainsaw (which didn't even
happen that much), and Leatherface was turned into this sweet character
that you began to feel bad for. And don't even get me started on how
Heather was acting at the end of the movie.

The whole story line was completely changed. During the first half of
the movie it is just like the other TCM movies, but the last half turns
into some weird love/family reuniting story which I absolutely hated.
Plus the other movies really portrayed the fact that the movie was
based off a true story. This new TCM makes it seem more like a fantasy
horror movie. It's all just very confusing and makes me feel like a
woman with a glass of wine wrote the story line.

See for yourself if you like but if you are a die hard TCM fan like I
WAS, then I highly expect you to be disappointed and don't spend money
on it. Thank god I got movie theater gift cards for Christmas...
<|_=00=_|>
I love horror flicks. I thought the 2003 remake of Texas Chainsaw
Massacre was a pretty decent horror film. Not amazing, but entertaining
nonetheless. 

This version of Texas Chainsaw caught my attention in the beginning.
Giving a flashback sequence to the original Sawyer family members being
killed. Things just went downhill after that. Every character in this
movie seems to lack a brain and/or is a complete a**hole. On top of
that... there was no nudity. I mean c'mon.. what's a horror film
without some nudity?! Just to name a few of many things that made this
movie bad:

Farnsworth a.k.a. the KFC Colonel didn't think it'd be important to
tell Heather, there was a 6"5' lunatic living in a hidden basement of
her inherited house. 

Even after all of Heather's friends are brutally murdered by
Leatherface, whom she discovers to be her cousin, she feels sorry for
him and loves him because he's "family." Screw that noise... ALL of her
friends are dead because of him. It's not even like he's a close
relative. She doesn't even know him. One minute she's scared sh**less
of him and the next she loves him AND helps him kill a couple more
people?? Are we supposed to believe that her thought process was: "Oh,
hey Cuz, you just knocked me out in the kitchen, almost cut me up with
a chainsaw in a coffin, tried killing me by flipping our van, chased me
through a carnival with a chainsaw forcing me to hang on to a Ferris
Wheel for my life AND killed all of my friends. But that's all okay.. I
forgive you because we're family. Now I'm going to help you kill people
and take care of you for the rest of my life." All I could say was...
Seriously... wtf just happened.

Towards the end, the sheriff was the only character I liked up because
he seemed to have a brain... Surprise!!! He's an idiot too! He decides
not to shoot Leatherface even after he killed five people in just one
night because he feels bad for him. His family died because they were a
bunch of murders.... boo hoo. Are we supposed to feel bad for
Leatherface??? I sure don't. Yet the makers seemed to think "let's try
to get the audience to feel bad for him." Last time I checked,
Leatherface was a scary serial killer. You're not supposed to feel bad
for them. We, as the audience of a slasher film, have no interest in
feeling bad for him. We want to be afraid of him. It is a HORROR film
after all.

In summary. The plot and character development make absolutely zero
sense... to the point where it makes you cringe. No thought was put
into this movie. Seems like the makers knew Texas Chainsaw fans would
go watch this movie so they didn't care to put effort into making it a
good one. Don't waste your time and definitely not your money watching
this movie. If you want to watch a Texas Chainsaw movie that isn't
incredibly old. Go watch the 2003 version. Not a great movie... But
it's still (approximately) a million times better than this garbage.
<|_=00=_|>
First the positives:

1. The movie moves quickly, it doesn't drag, so edited well. 2. The
middle part is half decent and what you expect for this series. 3. The
female lead and her friend are very attractive. 4. Decent special
effects. 5. Nice highlights from the original movie at the beginning.

Negatives:

1. Where did all these family members come from that wasn't in the 1st
movie? Terrible answer to what happened after the woman escaped. 2. Are
you really suppose to feel sympathy for a family who killed 4 people in
the 1st movie and implied they killed countless others? They deserved
to be shot and burned but the movie says it was wrong. 3. Why is
everyone a jerk in the movie? One guy steals, 2 people cheat, people
abusive, lying, etc. Only the boyfriend of the lead actress's friend
wasn't, and he was the most brutally killed. Come to think of it, the
mayor wasn't either, he did what had to be done, and he was the 2nd
most brutally killed. Too bad the movie thought he was a jerk. 4. Too
many clich√©s like the officer going to the house and not waiting for
BACKUP! Guess what happened to him. 5. Tombstone scene showing grandma
died in 2012, meaning 39 years after the 1st movie, yet no one aged
that much. Eating human meat must keep the body young as Leatherface at
60 something moves awfully well. 6. This must be the only carnival in
Texas that no one carries a gun. Also, amazingly, Leatherface doesn't
cut anyone with the chainsaw moving thru the crowded carnival. 7. A van
with a cut tire flipping over. That doesn't happen. 8. A sheriff who
believes in equal rights for serial killers. Just absurd. 9. Terrible
ending. Trying to have sympathy for Leatherface? How did anyone think
that was a good idea? He's suppose to be scary! 10. Lead actress who
suddenly forgets Leatherface killed her good friend and boyfriend, and
now loves him because he's her cousin. Terrible! 11. How does a sheriff
lose a deputy, see on video 3 cut up bodies, and just tell Leatherface
to clean up his mess? Fire the script supervisor! 12. Leave evidence
out so someone else can look thru it. Always the incompetent police
dept. If that were true today, the US would still be like the wild
west. 13. Have to take care of Leatherface? Let the cannibal rot. 14.
If it wasn't for the thief, would Leatherface ever have gotten out of
the house? How did he survive when Grandma died? 15. CGI gore, not that
great.

I could go on, but too many more negatives, I'm done. I see why this
came out the 1st weekend of the new year.
<|_=00=_|>
I walked into "Texas Chainsaw" with my usual tempered expectation when
seeing a horror film. We all know that maybe one out of ten releases
nowadays is actually good and scary...if we're lucky. And seeing as
this one was dumped on the first Friday of the year, it didn't bode
well for great expectations from Lionsgate. However, it was distributed
by, well, Lionsgate.

Alas, the umpteenth sequel to the 1974, although based on a great
concept, is a fail.

Despite the many follow-up films on the subject, this film is, in a
round-about way, a sequel to the 2003 remake of the 1974 original. The
original was directed by Tobe Hooper, and Hooper himself helped produce
not only this film but the 2003 remake (which inexplicably changed the
family name of the murderous family) and the 2006 prequel, but the
current film actually uses scenes from the 1974 original (and the
original family name of Sawyer) as it's jumping-off point, which gave
the film some instant weight for fans of the franchise.

However, the weight was lifted real quick.

In short, right after the events of the original film, some of the
residents of the town of Newt, Texas burn down the house where the
original massacre occurred with the entire Sawyer clan inside, but not
without one baby surviving the inferno. Said baby grows up never
knowing what had happened until she randomly receives word that her
long lost grandmother has passed on and left her with an inheritance,
resulting in the realization that her abusive parents are not her birth
parents. She leaves to check out what she has received, but not without
some friends coming along (of course)....and picking up the atypical
Texas Chainsaw hitchhiker in the process. Needless to say, the
inheritance came with something a little bit unusual, carnage sorta
ensues and what could have been a great twist is ruined by the sheer
implausibility of the execution of the story.

And that is ultimately where the issues with this film lie...in the
details. Never mind little stupid things like the fact that the house
burning down at the beginning of the film happened on August 19th and
somehow, the newspaper which reported the story was also dated August
19th (rather than the 20th). It's the major implausible details like
four friends leaving a mansion full of silver to get groceries to be
"cleaned up" by a hitchhiker they just picked up or the fact that a
rotting corpse is randomly found by Heather Miller, the inheritor, and
then never once mentioned again. As the story unfolds, it completely
falls apart and you risk missing something unimportant because you are
too busy rolling your eyes or wondering how a character went from A to
B or from caring to not caring. The story just ended up not making any
sense.

Why RnB artist Trey Songz chose this train wreck to launch his acting
career is beyond me, but his character is as unoriginal as his music.
Other than Songz, the cast is mainly made up by mediocre, little-known
television actors not worth mentioning except with the inclusion Shaun
Sipos as the hitchhiker and Scott Eastwood (yes, son of Clint who,
until recently, went by the name Scott Reeves) as a police officer,
both of whom are absolutely excellent eye candy.

So, was I entertained? Well, I wasn't BORED...but this film is
definitely a fail in terms of plot and execution and wasn't even so bad
it's good. But if you do decide to see it, do not pay extra for 3D if
you do not have to but do wait for the end of the credits to get a good
grin.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't usually rate films a 1. I'm fair with my ratings. A rating of 1
is saved for the worst of the worst, extremely bad movies. And this is
one of those movies. Where to begin?

Going in a different direction than the last two installments which
were reboots of the franchise, this movie is a direct continuation of
the 1974 film, ignoring all of its four sequels that followed. News
flash: if you're going to ignore sequels, make sure your film is better
than those sequels.

The film had some obvious plot holes, which I could forgive if the
movie weren't so bad. The main character, having been born in 1974 when
the events of the original took place, is played by a 26-year-old
actress who could play a 20 year old. And yes, the movie is set in the
present, as shown with the newest iPhone. I guess the writers didn't
think anyone would notice. But I don't even have an issue with that.
That would be perfectly passable, if the rest of the movie wasn't a
cancer-ridden train wreck.

This film, unlike all of the past installments, only features
Leatherface without his infamous cannibalistic family. Leatherface just
isn't the same and doesn't have enough charisma to carry a whole movie
by himself. What made the past incarnations decent horror movies, was
the entire cannibalistic family with Leatherface as a side character.
Here, no cannibalism goes on, which makes the TCM movies what they are.
The writers try to turn Leatherface into a solo killer the next Jason,
Michael Myers, Freddy Krueger (as if we have a shortage of those) and
it's not going to fly.

The acting is atrocious. There are no good performances in this film.
Not one. The dialogue is cringeworthy; there are one-liners in this
film, such as "you get em cuz!" and "welcome to Texas mother*cker" that
will cause most to get that embarrassed feeling in their stomach.

And then, that ending.

*SPOILERS*

In a quick change of events, Heather, the lead in the film, transitions
from running from the sadistic killer that is Leatherface into SIDING
with him. Yes, you heard right. She gets on Leatherface's good side.
Why, you ask? Well, she is Leatherface's cousin and all, and apparently
she has a change of heart when she finds out the town torched her
cannibalistic, murdering family members back in 1974. What a horrible
town to do such a thing...

Which leads us to the climax, where now, Leatherface and Heather are
after the corrupt mayor and police force of the town. Apparently, the
movie wants us to sympathize with Leatherface, a guy who just murdered
all of Heather's friends a few minutes prior, but she seems to have
forgiven him for that. All of the sudden, Leatherface is put in the
protagonist role, and the new enemy of the film becomes the corrupt
mayor, who torched the cannibalistic, murdering family years ago. I
mean, they deserved it right? Well, the mayor acts like a jerk, so I
guess we're supposed to hate him.

This film makes the 2003 version look like a great contribution to
cinema, in the same way watching Mortal Kombat after Mortal Kombat:
Annihilation will make you appreciate it so much more.
<|_=00=_|>
John Luessenhop's Texas Chainsaw 3D is a bad, bad movie. You know this.
I know this. Unfortunately the producers and studio that backed this
latest incarnation of Tobe Hooper's original genre-creating slasher
film ignored what we, the audience, already knew, and decided to milk
the franchise-cow for the sixth (and hopefully, final) time.

This new reimagining (as Hollywood likes to call it) starts off
promising with archive footage of the original film. That was the first
five minutes. After that, the movie spirals into unexplained and
implausible territory, asking its audience not only to suspend
disbelief, but disregard it completely.

The 2012 version of Texas Chainsaw is a direct sequel of the original,
with the prologue taking place in 1974. Vigilantes show up at the
infamous Sawyer home where the murders of several young adults
literally just happened and proceed to torch it to the ground in a fit
of vengeance. Amongst the chaos, a young Sawyer woman with an infant is
found hiding in the garage. Then, in a laughably inane act of kindness
followed by harsh brutality, one of the vigilantes saves the baby girl
and randomly kicks the Sawyer woman square in the face.

If there was anything 2011's The Cabin in the Woods has taught us, it's
that ridiculously attractive young adults will always venture out to
parts unknown for no reason and behave in ways normal human beings
would never agree to in real life given eerie circumstances.

Cut to Heather Mills (starring Alexandra Daddario's midriff and
breasts). She finds out she inherited a home in Texas after her
previously unknown grandma passed away while simultaneously discovering
she's adopted. Usually this would tear at the soul of a normal person,
being lied to your entire life by people you thought were your parents,
but no. Heather's first instinct is to collect on her inheritance by
dragging along her boyfriend, Ryan (Tremaine 'Trey Songz' Neverson),
her best friend, Nicole (Tania Raymonde), and Nicole's boy toy (Keram
Malicki-Sanchez) on an impromptu road trip. Along the way, they pick up
a hitchhiker named Darryl (Shaun Sipos), apparently to add to the
inevitable body count.

Texas Chainsaw fails to mention the time discrepancy as the original
film took place in the 1970s and this new film clearly states it's
2012. Heather should be pushing 40, but no bother. In a movie like
this, the only thing that matters is the gore, the scantily clad women,
and the infamy of the original.

To read the rest of the review (IMDb form too short) visit:
http://custodianfilmcritic.com/Texas- chainsaw-3d/
<|_=00=_|>
You are not going to watch Texas Chainsaw and expect a classic unless
you are seriously deluded. You do get what you expect which is plenty
of gore, a far fetched story line and a mindlessly enjoyable film. 

This is no acting masterclass although to be fair the cast are not bad
at all. Alexandra Daddario is nice to watch and the supporting cast do
their best with limited material. 

This is a slasher movie and you get your moneys worth of gore and a few
pretty tense scenes. 

As an easy to watch slasher this works pretty well, it moves along at a
swift pace, has all the elements you'd expect in this type of film and
is well executed. All in all it's better than I thought and worth a
viewing for genre fans.
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly do not know where to begin.. First of all, the first part of
the movie seemed to me like it was aimed at 14 year old's who have just
discovered masterbation, not that I can't appreciate the female form
but the way the camera flowed one of the female characters buttocks was
plain ridiculous and that top the main character was wearing was just
stupid, she needs to eat something. 

But that aside, the story line, dialogue, acting and execution was
utterly embarrassing. Now I am a huge fan of the TCM franchise, I even
enjoyed the re-make and 'the beginning' but I found it difficult to sit
through this movie, the line 'do your thing cuz' literally made me
cringe, leather face was a joke in this film, and the 3D was terrible
and pointless like with most 3D films.

Words just cannot sum up how awful this film is, even the gore is sub
standard and not abundant. Simply put, this film should not exist and
everyone involved should be extremely ashamed of themselves. 

The Texas Chainsaw Massacre has been massacred by this abomination.

- Townz
