
I finished reading all the previous reviews to have a clear idea about
what other people saw in this movie, and I must say that all that
emphasis about the film being too different from the book doesn't show
a great understanding of the cinematic technique. A movie is not a
book. The visual, with long shots and close ups, the dialogue and the
music, even the noises, take over all the written pages to express a
single gesture, the full description of a landscape, or the design of a
dress. A single close up can give us the essence of a full chapter.

This movie is sheer poetry. 

Forget about the original book that helped to create this jewel of a
movie, just watch this film, allow your senses to be absorbed by the
two parallel stories --the contemporary and the historical-- and just
absorb all that beauty offered to you in the story-line, the exquisite
photography, the delicacy of sentiments expressed by these women (it is
a terrible film for men's egos, because we come a very poor second
compared with those women, overpowered by men's brutality and yet
transcending the horrible handicaps imposed on them, like the tiding of
their feet from early age, to convert them into defenseless crippled
creatures, totally depending on men, and their virtual slaves for
life).

The image of those bounded stomps, deformed to the point of becoming
unrecognizable as human feet symbolizes too the humiliation some
ultraconservative elements of society try to impose over minorities as
if to say: "There, you'll go thru life bounded and suffering, freedom
to be yourself will be denied to you because I want it so". 

The total love among these "Sisters for life" was infinitely superior
to the love these women could have had for their husbands. We see that
in both cases --the historic and the contemporary-- and in both cases
it lasted, strong, to the last consequences.

Contrary to other viewers, I didn't have the slightest problem in
following the development of the two parallel stories, since it was
done in a very natural, simple and honest way; both stories superbly
intertwined to perfection till the final resolution. 

Â¿A masterpiece? yes, I think so.
<|_=00=_|>
Sunflower and the Secret Fan is the poignant tale of two 21st century
Asian girls and their matches in the 19th century: Both couples are
bound by the dictates of a patriarchal culture that challenges the
natural love and devotion they feel for each other. These lady laotongs
or "old sames" take an oath to make them faithful sisters forever, the
outward show of an enduring, lifelong commitment to their sisterhood.

Director Wayne Wang's challenge is to intercut the centuries and women
without confusing the audience, a virtue not always achieved in two
hours of traversing between times. His limited success can be
attributed to the striking skyline of modern Shanghai, an apt metaphor
for the change in the ladies' lives, indeed for change itself.

Just as arresting as the visual images is the stringed music of Rachel
Portman, which dictates emotions as strongly as any other score I have
heard this year. Some might complain of manipulation; I enjoy the
excess as if it were an ancient Chinese fan of innumerable design. BTW,
the titular fan was used by the 19th century ladies to make messages to
each other in their special language. Wang's considerable success
showing devoted friends in Joy Luck Club is evidenced in the ladies
here.

The bonding of protagonists is strong on the surface, but because there
is so much to do in only 2 hours, we never have sustained conversation
among them to verify what we intuit without much dialogue. It would be
sweet to linger more with them while they show through dialogue the
bond that makes them sacrifice for each other throughout their lives.

Snow Flower and the Secret Fan in the end turns on love, its many forms
and demands and on change, which frequently derails the best intentions
of love itself. The ladies here evidence in delicate ways the tumult
and reward accompanying a lifelong commitment to another human being.
And that's no secret.
<|_=00=_|>
Wayne Wang has directed another winner, "Snow Flower and the Secret
Fan". It is a well designed "chick flick" that overcomes ones emotions
to the point of great empathy for both the characters and the eras in
which it is set. Bingbing Li plays Nina/Lily, and Gianna Jun stars as
Snow Flower/Sophia. They are like blood sisters who rotate back and
forth from the 19th to the 21st centuries. The story is compelling. The
religious and cultural overtones are educational and well depicted. The
scenes in Shanghai as well as Australia are vistas that hold one in
awe. It is a Drama worth viewing and now is on Blu Ray DVD and worth
the effort for the clarity of sound and visual effect. The music is
especially well adapted to the film and provides another reason for the
extra effect of a good sound system.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a well cast and nicely filmed but uneven movie. The 2 leads Li
Bing Bing and Gianna Jun are lovely in different ways. Only Asian
actresses could play the same characters as teens and in their 30s
convincingly.

The story concerns two pairs of best girl friends, one set in present
day and one pair set in the mid 1800s in China. The modern story is a
bit less interesting than the modern one. The 1800s story has bound
feet (ouch), civil war and rural poverty. The modern story is about
career and love with a foreigner (an unintentionally hilarious Hugh
Jackman - that song!).

The changes between the 2 stories are a bit too frequent. It isn't
confusing about who is who but it just breaks up and jumbles the
narrative a little too much.

The movie is a bit long and maudlin. With too many lingering sad looks.
Feel like shouting Hurry Up sometimes! That is the old fashioned
Chinese soap opera part of it.

Overall worth one watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Others have described the story, so i wont. I feel that both the
critics and users were unfairly harsh. I almost missed this as a
result, despite having enjoyed the book. Perhaps it was the low
expectations. However, I think it's better than many more popular
female bonding movies and did not find too sentimental. I don't get why
films like Bridesmaided or the Ya Ya sisterhood are well liked. Sure
they are OK,, but cover nothing new.

Both the book and the movie are trying to tug the heart strings. That
accepted (and i like dark stories) they do it well and I cared about
both sets of women and what happened to these women. The stories are
interesting and the filming beautiful. I won't give any spoilers, but
the ending was a bit too neatly tied up, especially in the modern
story. I read the book and was skeptical about adding a parallel tail,
but found it worked well, though not sure it was necessary. The ending
was a bit too pat, especially in the modern day part. There are many
worse ways to spend an evening. Give it a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
A film about laotong, the bonding of two women for eternity as kindred
sisters, is unusual to say the least and one that is beautifully retold
in the manner of so many oriental stories must be a rarity. The reason
it works so well is because it is shot at two layers, one in the
present day, and the other at a time when women needed each other for
support. In fact the retelling of the latter is the result of a book
written by Sophia of the life of Snow Flower in the title. In each
layer Sophia/Snow Flower is bonded to Nina/Lily. The acting by Gianna
Jun (Sophia/Snow Flower) and Bingbing Li as Nina/Lily is extraordinary
with sterling support from an excellent cast. The cinematography and
soundtrack are also first rate.

In essence the story explores love in many guises via the relationship
of the two present day characters and their mirrors of old, but it is
only at the conclusion of the film that we are allowed to be inside the
minds of the kindred sisters and their relationship. This is not a film
that pivots upon romantic love since it delves very deep into the
agendas the women have and for that reason alone it may not be a
commercial success. That shouldn't detract from its beauty as a work of
art but clearly it has had an effect on the film's popularity on IMDb.
And that is a shame because it is well worth lasting all of its one
hundred and four minutes including the beautiful wash drawings
displayed with the final credits.

I don't know how this film manages less than six on the ratings for I
feel a little mean in only giving it eight because of the material it
explores. It is worthy of a visit to cinema, or even ownership of a
DVD. Oriental cinema has made another worthy addition to its growing
list of excellent stories turned into film.
<|_=00=_|>
Snow Flower and the Secret Fan is a beautifully written book by Lisa
See; it tells the fictional story of two women, bound together since
childhood as laotong, or old sames. The laotong relationship is a life-
long relationship between women, often with similar birthdays,
horoscopes, or other social or biological markers; and was often
revered higher than a marriage. They communicate with each other,
across time and distance, on fans on which they write their special
women's language, nu shu. Nu shu is a complex language, where context
is paramount, and is reserved for women only. 

See's book details the life of two girls, Snow Flower a daughter of a
formerly-well-to-do family whose grandfather was an Imperial Scholar,
and Lily, whose family is of a middle class caste. They share their
life experiences including the painful process of foot binding, mothers
who push for good marriages, and the struggles that each encounter once
they are married, even war comes to their area. Throughout their lives
there is tension, both beautiful and awful until a misunderstanding
severs their bond for several years. 

Wayne Wang once again fills the screen with a great caste, wonderful
scenery, and subtle emotion. But here is where the film adaptation
fails. The beautiful and tragic story by Lisa See is eclipsed by a
contemporary story line created to follow the lives of 2 friends in
modern day Shanghai: Nina, a go getter who is very ambitious, and
Sophia, a Chinese Korean who has struggled with her mother's death, her
father's subsequent remarriage to a shrew, and her father's untimely
death. **SPOILER** It is suggested that Sophia is descended from Snow
Flower, and has the fans that the women had shared throughout their
life together. There is too much focus on the contemporary characters,
which are created solely for this film. The tension and strife that
Snow Flower and Lily faced throughout their lives is gone, and events
are extremely telescoped. As women of different classes in 19th century
China, their fates were bound to their marriages, and their own
relationship was shaped by their relationships with their mothers (but
whose isn't?). This is lost in the film.

Wayne Wang does a beautiful script, but attention to the original story
would have done this film more justice.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the key discoveries in my life is that for me and for many of my
women friends, our friendship is often the most wonderful gift of life.
This movie celebrates friendship among women. It relates two stories of
women in China whose friendship is signed as a contract, a laotong.
Laotong, the movie explains, is a life-long relationship between women,
often considered more important than marriage. The movie presents two
young friends in Shanghai in the 21st century who celebrate a laotong.
Their friendship is portrayed with the closeness, empathy and support
that is well known about friendship among women. And it also presents
the difficulties and distances that are very real and perhaps
unavoidable in close relationships. In a similar way, the movie
presents two 19th century women who had had a laotong in very different
circumstances and for whom the friendship is also both a marvelous gift
and a difficult relationship. Movies are often about relations between
a man and a women but seldom about women friends. That is why this
movie seems to be controversial. It is not always accepted that for
women their women friends are their most rewarding relationships
despite the complicated faces of any human partnership. Go see the
movie. It shows a side of women's life that is amazingly real but
poorly understood.
<|_=00=_|>
SNOW FLOWER AND THE SECRET FAN is the cinematic adaptation of Lisa
See's popular novel by writers Angela Workman, Ron Bass and Michael K.
Ray and director Wayne Wang. The film unveils parallel stories between
19th century China and present day Shanghai - the tales of two women
joined by laotong - a binding vow and contract to be eternal friends
and share each others lives - communicating with a secret women's
language called nu shu, carefully inked characters placed on the folds
between the spines of a silken fan. By using the same actresses to play
the parts of the girls two centuries apart adds a mysterious beauty to
the films alluring flavor.

In 1826 Lily and Snow Flower become laotung and though they are from
opposite ends of the social stratum they become devoted friends,
undergoing the ritual of having their feet broken and bound to remain
very small as adults - apparently a desired attribute for physical
attraction as a potential bride. The poor girl is chosen for marriage
by a wealthy family and the rich girl is promised to a butcher, an
extreme reversal of roles in society and it is the manner in which each
adapts and aids the other that demonstrates the depth of the bond of
laotong. Concurrently in the film we meet Nina and Sophie in
contemporary Shanghai: Nina has gained education and stature and is due
to move to New York as part of an important business. Sophie is in an
accident and only slowly do we realize that Sophie had the promise of
moving to Australia to marry an Aussie singer (Hugh Jackman), more
because she is pregnant than for love. Because of the laotung between
Nina and Sophie the two make sacrifices that overcome all else to prove
their loyalty. There are many parallels in the two stories that show a
bond between the two sets of girls and to capture this bond securely
the two girls form centuries apart are played by the same actresses:
Lily/Nina become the roles of Bing Bing Li and Snow Flower/Sophie are
portrayed by Gianna Jun. The supporting cast is carefully chosen and
uniformly fine.

The sets and costumes and music enhance this film significantly. It is
not a great epic of a movie, but it has a tender and touching story
that is very well told by everyone involved. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
The current scandal surrounding Rupert Murdoch makes it all the more
surprising that his wife produced Wayne Wang's "Snow Flower and the
Secret Fan". But even so, it's still worth seeing. It tells the story
of two friends in present-day Shanghai, and the connection that they
have with two girls in 19th century China through a fan on which they
wrote secret messages.

Wang famously focused on Chinese-American families in "The Joy Luck
Club", and took a bittersweet look at people's lives in "Smoke". This
movie doesn't equal either of those, but I still recommend it. The
development of Shanghai certainly reflects the changes in the lives of
the girls (and the changes that China has undergone over the past 100
years). Not great, but worth seeing.
