
I wasn't really sure what to expect, but I do enjoy watching war films,
especially true stories, as they generally depict the horrors of war.
Right from the start I was hooked, and was not disappointed.

It is a pity films from Korea, Japan, China, and other oriental
countries are not included in the Oscars or bafta awards, but then
America and Britain wouldn't have so many winners.

This film is typical of this as it has some great acting and is filmed
extremely well. It also shows you don't need a budget like that of some
Hollywood movies. The biggest thing for me is that it is a true story
and is dramatised well. Without being too political, with the ongoing
problems in Korea, they could have made the North out to be animals,
but they don't.

For a film that probably wont be mentioned at the big ceremonies, it is
a loss for film-making. I would highly recommend this film if you
haven't seen it yet. Would love to see Britain make films as good as
this, but I haven't seen many, recently, that comes close. That is just
my opinion though.

As with all films though, don't go by opinion, watch it and decide by
yourself, but I think you will enjoy the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
War film action junkies sit up and take note, as 71: Into the Fire
should be written into your books as a must watch if you haven't
already made plans to do so. Steven Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan may
have set the bar and raised expectations many years ago with regards to
the use of strained colours and realistic war violence being portrayed
on screen, and in recent years even China too got into the act through
Feng Xiaogang's The Assembly. While tales of heroism during WWII have
been aplenty done by filmmakers from the West, I can only think of a
handful done in the East to meet that kind of scale. This is one of
them.

Directed by John H. Lee, the basis of the film reported came from a
letter from one of the 71 deceased South Korean student soldiers, which
chronicled their Alamo experience and moment as the few who had to
stand up to the invading North Korean masses in very David and Goliath
measures. Tasked with the strategically important defense of Pohang
while the rest of what's left of the South Korean army and UN coalition
defended the Nakdong River area, this is not 300 where a group of
battle hardened soldiers led by King Leonidis tragically fended off the
huge Persian army, but a group of rag tag students with little military
experience being told to hold their ground for 2 hours against a
fanatical, professional army before reinforcements arrive.

You can feel the sense of urgency and desperation throughout the film,
as Lee doesn't forget to remind you how dire the situation was, with
the tremendous loss of territory over a period of four months to the
North Korean forces sledgehammering its way down south, and the
reliance of students to take up arms in what could have been a tactical
lesser of two evils. The UN Coalition is stretched thin, and the
makeshift Captain of the ragtag student group, soft spoken Oh Jung-Bum
(T.O.P), has some serious growing up to do if he is to lead the
students, being one of three who have had some combat experience.
Making things difficult is the inclusion of criminals like Kap-Jo (Kwon
Sang Woo) who's just happy to be out of prison to lend his weight to
the fight, but as with any army that requires discipline, here is one
man and his two lieutenants who prefer the contrary.

From the get go you'll get thrown thick into the action with loud
gunfire and pretty much everything exploding on screen from artillery
and other big guns fire, as Jung-Bum wanders around his battalion doing
errands like topping up and delivery of magazines and rounds to
soldiers, only to find his side of the forces constantly retreating,
and being caught up in a life and death situation. Clearly not the hero
he thinks he could be, he soon gets sent packing into a truck and again
the North, under the leadership of Commander Park Mu-Rang (Cha
Seung-Won), is triumphant and merciless in their taking of additional
territory.

More set action sequences are to follow, and each are carefully crafted
to reap maximum effect for the film-goer as we root for the student
soldiers as they stand their ground, and rely on their street smarts to
come up with some form of defense system to protect their minuscule
turf. While luck has them chancing upon caches of abandoned weapons,
improvisation meant the welcoming of Molotov cocktails (still a weapon
of choice for guerrilla styled riots), and various forms of
gas/fuel+fire combination. Not being military strategists, the students
are susceptible to the oldest trick in the book like ambushes, and each
challenge they come up toward meant a reduction in their already
pathetic numbers.

Perhaps it is their making of such naive mistakes that draw in on the
harshness of war, where director Lee doesn't spare us much of the gory
details from bursting wounds and machine gun fire from up close ripping
up bodies. As the adage goes, don't die for your country but make the
other bastard die for his. However this film depicts Koreans killing
Koreans, so therein lies an opportunity to address some of this
insanity why people ought to be killing their own comrades and
countrymen, even having the North Korean commander at times exhibiting
being a maverick willing to go against battle orders, albeit to satisfy
his bruised ego that had been wounded by a bunch of students against
his own troops.

There's no lack of drama and tension as well, brought on when Jung-Bum
and Kap-Jo have to go head to head in order to earn each other's mutual
respect, but before that the gangsters' shenanigans prove to be running
against the grain of the student soldier's mission. For Jung- Bum, we
witness how he matures from boy to man, while Kap-Jo learns about
responsibility and what it means to be counted upon, in contrast to his
selfish ways since the enemy is now real and right at their doorstep.
Unfortunately while this film has 71 student soldiers split into two
platoons, realistically you're not going to have to get to know all of
them, so only these two fly the character development flag for the
rest.

Well made with excellent production values and sets depicting the state
of war affairs during the Korean War, 71: Into the Fire will go into my
books as one of the best this year in its genre. Highly recommended,
especially when viewed on the big screen!
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is great because they did not try to make it huge: it was
just telling a simple story about 71 young student learning and
struggling in the real war. 

The main actor: Choi Seung Hyeon (who is also known as TOP in Big Bang)
did a great job. He acts impressively with his eyes, showing us how a
student knowing nothing becomes to get to fight, to kill for the sake
of his own team. Other actors did not show the best of them, especially
Kwon Sang Woo. He could do better than that, but I feel that the
character he played was not fully described. The music was not very
impressive to me, however the effect was quite real and well-done for a
Asian war movie. Since this is based on a true story, the end can
easily be predicted, but that does not mean it was a boring end. They
show us how people die in war: they may have different backgrounds but
still can become real soldier once needed.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been waiting for this movie to be released in the US ever since
I saw the trailer on Youtube.com last month and read all the hype.
Plus, one of my favorite Korean actors, Cha Seung Won, is one of the
four leads. This guy can do it all--comedy and drama, and he does not
disappoint as the North Korean commander in this movie. This is the
first time I have seen him on a big movie theatre screen and the camera
loves him. DVD rentals on my TV are not quite the same--too bad more
Korean films don't get US theatrical releases. Also giving excellent
performances were Kim Seung Woo and Choi Seung Hyun--two actors who I
first saw in last year's Kdrama, "Iris". Rounding out the lead actors
is Kwon Sang Woo--another good performance and my first time seeing him
in a theatrical film. All the supporting roles were also very well
cast. If one likes war movies, this one is not to be missed--especially
since it is based on a true incident during the Korean War. Direction,
sets, costumes, music--all were well done. This film merits more than
one viewing at the movie theatre.
<|_=00=_|>
"There is no one to blame for the Korean War; not the soviets, North
Koreans, South Koreans, Chinese or the anti communist nations. We only
have over selves to blame for war, and no one truly wins one." 

So states a previous reviewer; but that's wrong.

The North invaded and killed their "brothers." Stalin had to approve
the use of Soviet tanks. The historical documentary proofs are
available to researchers.

There really is good and evil in this world. We choose which side to
join.

The students chose to sacrifice themselves to defend their homeland.
The North Koreans chose to kill students. Their sacrifice was only a
small part of the whole Korean War; but their example still inspires
people.

This film tells that story rather well. We can all look at these
examples and choose to live our life the right way. Or not. Doing good
is not easy and often painful.

We can fight to enslave others, fight to free them from slavery, or
just run away and hide. What will we do?
<|_=00=_|>
This movie overall was really well made. The acting was great, the
special effects were good, and the movie was easy to follow. Since this
was based on a true event, the ending was not going to be a huge
surprise. Compared to most American films in the past two decades, this
film had a low budget (about $10 Million USD). Most of the critics
comment TOP from Big Bang being casted just for pure publicity, but he
is a good actor as proved from a past Korean drama he did called IRIS.
The sadness of the Korean War and the desperation of the people at that
time were wonderfully portrayed. We should take this movie as a harsh
reminder of the Korean War and wars around the world in general. You
may think that this might never happen especially to you of all people
but the harsh reality is that is can There is no one to blame for the
Korean War; not the soviets, North Koreans, South Koreans, Chinese or
the anti communist nations. We only have over selves to blame for war,
and no one truly wins one.
<|_=00=_|>
As I know little about the Korean War apart from MASH I didn't really
know what to expect. I was very impressed and surprised at how good 71
is. The true story of the 71 students who defended their line for 11
hours against the might of the communist North is told with passion,
humor, and action. It is somewhat clichéd - but this works in its favor
- what we get is a Braveheart feeling for a small but very well-made
war film.

The two main leads are competent, if a little OTT in their roles, but
again by the end this pays off and I really have no complaints - if
moving, and exciting war films are your thing then this is definitely
worth viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
Great movie. It depicted the struggles of South Korean student soldiers
so well. They were very patriotic, especially in the times of the major
battle where the student with round glasses drove into the tank with
missiles. Another where the guy drove himself into the machine gun mini
tank thing. Another one was when the almost dead South Korean turned
oil on and burned the place. A lot of NK soldiers died during that
part. Also, when Gapjo (Gwon Sangu) was shot by a pistol by Park
Murang(Cha Seung Won) he tried to stab him but failed. The
Jungdaejang(T.O.P or Choi Seung Hyun) loaded one last bullet when
Murang tried to shoot him, and they shot themselves at the same time.
It also depicts the love of Koreans to each other. They have a close
bond, and they love themselves as soldiers. Just simply great but could
have been better. I don't see Staff Sergeant Jones. Where is he? I only
saw the Major or someone who gave the super bazookas. The graphics were
very superb as well. Great war movie to watch if you want some laughs
and tears(last part) where (Kim Seung Woo) hugs (T.O.P). Fantastic
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
A heartfelt and passionate Korean War epic, 71  INTO THE FIRE marks
the epitome of self-sacrifice, brotherly love, and gung-ho soldierly
bravery. It's a simple enough tale which, crucially, really happened:
71 schoolboys were tasked with holding back a North Korean division
single-handedly during the Korean War in 1950. What follows  their
holding-out against impossible odds - sounds too good to be true, but
yes, it really happened, and it makes for great movie-making.

The only South Korean war movie I'd seen previously was the superlative
BROTHERHOOD, so I had no idea what to expect from this production. I
got it all: thoroughly engaging characters, an interesting storyline
and typically stylish direction. Yes, it's a slow builder of a movie:
it takes an hour and a half before things really get going, but then
the climax hits and you've rarely seen anything so intense and
devastating in equal measure. Solid performances throughout contribute
to the overall feel that this is a great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The true story, directed by John H. Lee (A Moment to Remember) about
South Korean student unit of 71 soldiers who was left to defend the
girls middle school during the Battle of Pohang during the peek of
North Korea's invasion of South in 1950. That 71 students defended that
position for 11 hours against a North Korean army brigade and the film
was inspired by the letters of one of that soldiers. Out of 71 members
of the unit, only three had combat experience, while others have not
undergone any training before the battle, which makes their resistance
unbelievable.

The story focuses on two soldiers, Oh Jung-Bum, frightened and lost
commander of the unit who only got the position because of his
experience that was minimal, and Ku Kap-Jo, convicted of murder who
enlisted in the Army to avoid jail. A good part of the story rests on
their conflict and on development of their relationship as well as
their relationship with the rest of the unit. Character development is
uncommonly done. Oh Jung-Bum changes from a scared kid who couldn't
even shot from the gun to brave commander absurdly fast, while Ku
Kap-Jo's path is approximately opposite and just as fast, if not
faster. In this context, we can mention the North Korean captain Park
Mu-Rang which is extremely difficult to characterize as he's almost
like another character in almost every scene, while only he's egotism
stays.

Performance is standard Asian, full of melodrama, highlighting the
pride and courage, and a somewhat caricature acting that is pretty
solid here. Cha Seung-won is far form being brilliant in lead role of
Oh Jung-Bum, almost completely without emotions, as if he was forced to
act in this movie. The rest of the acting team did a solid job. The
pace of storytelling is perfect, not one scene is redundant, although
movie could work without humorous parts they deliver, alongside humor,
additional characterization of the characters. It's a simple, dynamic
story with which time goes by quickly. There's no objections to the
visual part of the film. A solid budget of 10mil dollars was well used,
the effects look almost authentic. Final battle looks really
impressive, although it can not be overlooked that it was somewhat
idealized.

Film lacks historical context which is not surprising given that, as
usually happens with Far Eastern cinema, it's made for their market so
they didn't feel like it's necessarily to explain situation, but
however, it does not affect much on the experience of the film since
the theme is universal, and 71: Into the Fire is one of the better war
movies lately.
