
Two elite CIA agents, Franklin and Tuck, operating out of Los Angeles
are suspended for fouling up an assassination operation in HK. Since
they have nothing else to do, they start looking for women. As fate
would have it, they fall for the same woman, Lauren.

So in brotherly comradarie they agree to compete for her. For the
unfortunate woman she goes suddenly from having no male attention (not
really believable but there you have it) to have two virile,
interesting and attractive men pursuing her.

This is where the high comedy should begin: but it is very ham-fisted
and relies heavily on over the top action and sexual innuendo. The
banter is forced, and the jokes are too predictable.

We, the viewers, see that of the two men, Tuck (the less attractive
one) is upfront and genuine, and Franklin (the more attractive one) is
rather deceitful and willing to lie to impress the girl. However, the
deceitful one actually falls for the girl and scorns all the other
women is currently sleeping with to be with Lauren. The script gave no
plausibility for this change, and even within the genre it is a bit too
much.

We know which one she chooses - the more attractive one of course!!!
And somehow she manages to maintain the relationship when she realises
that Franklin know absolutely nothing about Klimt, and really does not
help out at the animal shelter, and is impossibly egocentric.

But since this is a romantic comedy, Tuck couldn't be left out in the
cold - no, there is another woman brought in to save him from
loneliness.
<|_=00=_|>
I love action movies. I love romance films. What I don't love is
Rom/com, barely action movies that make horrible sex jokes over and
over again. I don't think it's a spoiler to say that there is a
character whose only purpose is to make the same sex jokes over and
over again. The action scenes are shot so close and edited so fast that
there is no flow to them or any suspense whatsoever. Reese (Where the
Heck Have I Been for Nearly a Decade) Witherspoon is set up as just a
prize for Tom Hardy and Chris Foster to fight over, nothing else. More
on the editing, it jumps around more than an epileptic deer. This movie
tries to make it funny for two guys using billions of dollars worth of
equipment to spy on each other and their love interest (creepy). McG,
fitting name for this low calorie garbage. By the way, if your not
convinced yet, McG directed Terminator Salvation, The Charlie's Angels
remakes, and We Are Marshall. Don't take anyone to see this unless you
want to insult their intelligence. I saw this idiotic movie, hated it,
came home, and discovered a video review (too late) bashing it like I
just have. If you still don't believe me after I have poured the hatred
this movie hath made out of my heart, got to this address. This movie
attempts to please the guys and the girls but fails horrendously in
both (Film Brain, look him up on Google). O great, now the score's a
6.6. Screw this. ONLY PEOPLE THAT BELIEVE THAT BUGGING THEIR
GIRLFRIEND'S IS OK WOULD LIKE THIS MOVIE.

By the way, I'm nominating this piece of cinematic defecation for worst
picture of 2012. You listening Razzies.
<|_=00=_|>
McG hasn't really been seen in the director's chair since Terminator
Salvation hit theaters back in 2009. Audiences were split as to whether
they actually enjoyed Salvation or not as critics hated it and the
movie failed to make back its budget in its domestic gross. So what's
the logical next step after doing a movie about the nuclear holocaust
and the ongoing war between humans and humanoid machines? You could
probably guess the action bit, but the romantic comedy part would
probably throw you off.

This Means War is the story of FDR (Chris Pine) and Tuck (Tom Hardy)
two CIA agents who are two of the best agents in their field. FDR and
Tuck are partners and best friends, but come to a gentleman's agreement
when they both start dating the same woman named Lauren (Reese
Witherspoon). Both FDR and Tuck begin falling for Lauren and not only
begin breaking the rules that they set for one another, but use
whatever means necessary to keep Lauren in their good graces.

This Means War throws you right into one of FDR and Tuck's missions
right from the start. The main issue becomes how dizzying the camera
work is. The action hits extremely hard and is incredibly fast paced,
but you have a difficult time actually following just what is
transpiring in these quick cuts let alone trying to keep your wits
about you. This is kind of odd since I wasn't a fan of Terminator
Salvation, but felt like one of its strongest qualities was how the
camera always seemed to be in the right place during the action. Maybe
McG decided to regress back to his Charlie's Angels mindset for This
Means War.

The action heavy romantic comedy is dragged down by annoying girl talk.
Lauren and her friend Trish (Chelsea Handler) do nothing but whine and
complain about their lives the entire movie while also revealing
they're basically the biggest whores around. This Means War paints this
picture of women that they all date multiple guys at once and will put
out just to try and make a decision. It's pretty demeaning to women in
general. Between Lauren and Trish's talks of the size of a man's
private parts or a lightning round involving sex, every inch of
dialogue between them is unbearable right from the start. Meanwhile,
FDR and Tuck have quite a bit of immature bickering between one another
as well. It becomes borderline homophobic at times and just feels very
third grade for nearly half of the film. The second half becomes a
little easier to digest and the highlight comes when FDR mocks Tuck's
British accent.

The storyline is very imbecilic, as well. Using the gadgets,
technology, and basically every ounce of intelligence of the CIA to try
and win over a woman is just asinine. The actual mission, which is
certainly more interesting than the love triangle you're forced to
endure, isn't even second fiddle. It's more like the third or fourth
subplot of the movie. The FDR/Tuck/Lauren love triangle being the
primary, FDR/Tuck's friendship falling apart being the secondary,
Lauren trying to mull things over with Trish being the third, and Tuck
trying to be a stand up family man the fourth. So that would make the
actual mission the fifth subplot of the movie. How lame is that? This
Means War does get a little less irritating as it progresses. The jokes
get slightly less offensive and Tom Hardy still manages to be the best
part of the movie. While Reese Witherspoon has to make it a point to
try and jiggle around while wearing horrible clothes and singing off
key and Chris Pine attempts to be the biggest womanizer he possibly
can, they still manage to squeeze in Tom Hardy being a complete bad
ass. The paintball scene is one of the highlights, but the most
original aspect of the movie comes in one of the first (of many) dates
Tuck has with Lauren. He takes her to a carnival and at the end of it
takes her on the trapeze. It's actually really cool and would be a
really fun first date for anyone.

This Means War is a frustrating and awful excuse for entertainment. Its
humor is lame and offensive in the way that it insults all of mankind
by how stupid and immature it is, its plot is horrible and insulting,
and Reese Witherspoon will test every last ounce of patience you
possibly have. This Means War gives you the impression that women are
easy and that if you've got enough game then everything works out for
the best. While it does have a few moments that try to make up for how
terrible it really is, This Means War still can't shake the fact that
its spewed excrement into your face for over an hour and a half.
<|_=00=_|>
If you wanted to make a movie that was successful at the box office,
you could plug the story lines of the top 25 movies for the last 10
years into a computer and have it generate a plot. It would probably
come up with a new genre called the 'romantic action comedy'. It would
probably come up with, 'This Means War'. I spent most of the movie
trying to figure out who it was targeted for. First, no adult with a
few functioning neurons will find the plot compelling. I doubt if women
would find the romance unforgettable. I, therefore, concluded that the
movie was targeted towards 15 year old boys out on their first dates.
Yes, there are the obligatory action scenes with the required number of
explosions and car chases, but this is mainly to wake up the
13-year-olds who fell asleep during the 'romantic' scenes. The comedy,
and I am stretching the dictionary definition of that word here, comes
mainly from the sexual remarks of Chelsea Handler and are directed at
the same sleepy 13-year-olds.

It's too bad. I like Reese Witherspoon and, prior to this movie, I had
concluded that she was never in a bad movie. Isn't she being offered
any better roles than this? It is one of the few movies where you feel
sorry for the guy who gets the girl. Actually, by that point in the
movie, you really don't care. Yet, the sad truth, the very sad truth is
that the movie will probably be a box office hit, a fact that will
generate more movies in this genre and keep computer programmers
employed for years to come.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, critics, what the hell? I saw this movie at 7:30 at Movieland: A
Bow Tie Cinema in Richmond, VA. Great theater, props! Anyways. The
theater was packed. It was the biggest screen, too, but it was the only
showing. If the audience reaction was anything to go on, this movie was
hilarious. I certainly thought so. But not only thatÂ—it was a good
movie! 

Summary aside, this movie actually turned out to be one of my favorite
romantic comedies and buddy comedies all in one. It was very
fast-paced. It had the element of government agents, but also
government agents that abuse their job's resources. There are 'bad
guys' but it doesn't dominate the movie. The scenes with the bad guys
start off with the preconception that they would be long and intense,
but were actually only 60 seconds long and just a short break between
the comedy and action. The funny partsÂ—yes, they were funny. I was
cracking up the entire time, and I don't do that often. Visually it
looked amazing; watching on Blu-Ray will be spectacular. I, for one,
will buy this on Blu-Ray. My roommate will thank me.

Yes, young people like myself will enjoy this movie, but it's also
targeted for late twenties-late thirties people thinking about love and
marriage. I saw a lot of older couples at the theaters and they were
enjoying it just as muchÂ—they were laughing loudest, in fact! I'd give
this movie a 9/10. Pure enjoyment.

So my issue: WTF Critics? You give this movie zero credit. Is it
because of the actors? They're all great actors. Plot? Actually pretty
goodÂ—somewhat predictable in hindsight but I'd still watch the movie
again. Director? Supernatural and Nikita both have a fanbase, and
aren't that bad with action or drama. If they actually watched the
movies they wouldn't have rated it that low; I think they were going
off plot summary. Back off, critics! When more people see this movie
the ratings will go up! Rotten tomatoes said audience enjoyed it 71% so
far, but opening day isn't even over yet. Critics give it 33%? Come on.
(From tvcinema.tumblr.com (my blog) )
<|_=00=_|>
Just a quick example to summarise my impressions of this awful
nonsense.

Any film where you find yourself inadvertently shouting "die" at the
screen, right at the point when the whole cinema goes silent as you
wait to see which of the irritating guys the painful Witherspoon will
run to to dodge the flying car, hasn't really captured you in its
magic.

Predictable, irritating, poorly acted and unbelievable. I actually only
laughed at the peripheral actors - the CIA guys working around the
edges seemed to remember it was okay to actually be funny in a romcom.
<|_=00=_|>
Contains spoilers!

A C movie (watchable once) if the bellow issues are not a deal breaker
for you (it is for me).

(Deal breaker summarized, I am not covering all the issues - already
too much of a rant) 

Movie is horrible; I am writing this comment during the movie. If you
have any respect for relationships this movie will crap on that (she is
specifies she is looking for the one).

The sick feeling of watching the double dating, "I need to have sex
with them to decide which one is "the one"", was mentally impassible to
the point that I couldn't enjoy watching the rest of the movie once
"gotta catch em both, gotta try them at the same time" began. 

Few example gripes (different points):

When Lauren found out that Tuck and FDR knew each other she got
indignant and said "This is just a game?, I trusted you!". Seriously,
the one double dating two guys that she thought didn't know each other,
and she gets mad? 

Tuck's ex-wife left him because he wasn't around as a travel agent, so
couldn't spend time with the family. At the end of the movie she finds
out about his real job and decides to get back together with him, his
job has never changed (so the time spent has never changed).

They end the movie with FDR telling Tuck that he had sex with his wife,
before she was his wife. But, that Tuck never had sex with Lauren-
upholding the gentlemen's final agreement. 

Moral to this story, choose the better looking liar who is less of a
gentleman and can lay you first, your job title means more than
actually who you are or how much time you have and your mistakes happen
but everything will be okay if not better because of them.

(1 rating is my opinion, but barring I had no issues with how they
dealt with relationships and reasoning I may have had rated it a 5)
<|_=00=_|>
Director McG has many (many, many) haters, but I generally like his
movies. I don't consider him a "misunderstood genius", nor anything
similar; I just generally find his exuberant visual style and frantic
energy entertaining. I found Charlie's Angels and its sequel amusing
parodies of the action cinema; I liked Terminator Salvation for having
found an interesting angle to the franchise; and We Are
Marshall...well, that one was mediocre. Anyway, I can't defend McG with
This Means War, his most recent film, because it ended up being truly
horrible.

The most important problem from This Means War is its screenplay, which
I found incredibly weak and predictable (if you don't guess during the
first minutes which one of the two gallants will stay with the girl,
you haven't seen any romantic comedy in your whole life). The humor
lacks of any spontaneity, the jokes are terribly predictable, and the
performances are pathetic, specially Reese Witherspoon's, which feels
so false and studied that I hated her character even more than the two
gallants.

The action scenes lack of any suspense or emotion. There are various
fights, chases and explosions, but everything is so uninspired that I
wouldn't be surprised if editors Nicolas De Toth and Jesse Driebusch
made a confusion with the reels and included in this film scenes from
Mr. and Mrs. Smith, Knight and Day, Killers, or any other deplorable
"action romantic comedy".

It's easy to note that nobody that worked in This Means War put any
effort to it, and that makes it a horrible film which I suggest you to
avoid by any means.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the previews, I had already been convinced that I wanted
to see This Means War - romantic comedy spy movie - right up my alley.
My hubby wasn't similarly convinced.

After getting tickets to an advance screening, we both went - and ended
up pleasantly surprised. This Means War was funny, really funny -
Chelsea Handler was the hidden gem of the movie.

The movie never took itself too seriously, which was refreshing - it
had a few heartfelt moments, but nothing too sappy. It stayed on the
side of comedy over romance, and wasn't overly predictable.

There's certainly enough action to keep the guys interested, with
enough story to keep us gals entertained. And plenty of laughs for
everyone.
