
I had the privilege to be among the first in North America to screen
David Schwimmer's latest film last night at the Toronto International
Film Festival (TIFF), with cast members including Clive Owen and
Catherine Keener (two of my favourite actors) present as well as the
director, Schwimmer himself. 

Before the screening, the former "Friends" star provided some valuable
context for the film, sharing his personal connection to the topic. It
was enlightening to learn that he himself is a dedicated advocate for
survivors of sexual assault/abuse and has spent a great deal of time
working and interacting with the families impacted, because the film
was executed with such a sensitivity and deep psychological
understanding around the difficult topic.

Before delving into my review let me just say upfront (for those who
are quickly trying to decide whether or not to see this) that this is a
good movie, and yes you should see it. 

I also went into this film not knowing its rating and I can assure you,
that while the subject is very heavy and there are some disturbing
scenes and some violence, there is nothing here so sexually graphic
that it is too uncomfortable to watch - even my husband who I would
consider to be a "sensitive" viewer did not find the film to be
graphic.

"Trust" is the kind of movie that relies heavily upon the plausibility
of its dialogue and the believability of its actors. If the script was
poorly written or the innumerable emotional scenes poorly acted, the
whole thing might have been a disaster for Schwimmer.

Instead, Kenner and Owen turned in Oscar-worthy performances that
invited viewers into their home, their marriage and their suffering.
Under great direction, Owen led his character through a roller-coaster
of emotions that was accessible to viewers, as we shared in his
character's progression through anger, grief and understanding. 

Not to be overlooked, and the true star of this film, is the young
Liana Liberato who plays the daughter and the victim with such
authenticity that it was at some times painful to watch. Not enough can
be said about how incredible she was in this film - I think the career
she has ahead of her will speak for itself. 

Of course, the best acting in the world would have been wasted if the
screenplay was weak, but with Robert Festinger (who wrote the
screenplay for "In the Bedroom") on board, you can expect a convincing
storyline and dialogue that felt real.

At times, the film comes dangerously close to being clich√© or cheesy
like a television drama or TV movie-of-the-week. And this is almost
inevitable when trying to make a cautionary drama with the underlying
objective of raising awareness around a societal issue. However any
time you feel the film beginning to veer down this path, it is rescued
by the incredible acting and you forget once more that you are watching
a film. Even the ending which I thought at first was a bit overly
sentimental, quickly took an unexpected and dark turn that, for me,
restored its credibility. 

This is a powerful and very important film, not just for families but
also for David Schwimmer's career because now the sitcom actor-turned-
director has established himself as a serious and very capable dramatic
filmmaker who is not afraid to take on challenging material. 

I'm not sure how well "Trust" will do outside of the film festival or
if it would appeal to mass audiences, however I do hope people see it,
especially those who care about this important issue. 

I would definitely watch a David Schwimmer film again in the future -
he has legitimate talent behind the camera and should he make more
marketable movies in the future, he might actually make it big as a
director. 

I give this movie a solid 8 out of 10. Congratulations to Schwimmer and
your team on this great accomplishment. And, as a woman and caring
citizen, thank you for telling this story.
<|_=00=_|>
I went in thinking it would be a standard-issue, after-school special
type of movie that would be most popular when it airs on Lifetime. I'm
sure a lot of you may hesitate to go see it because you are thinking
the same thing. YOU NEED TO SEE THIS MOVIE.

It's real. It's damn real. The acting across the board is phenomenal.
The girl playing Annie in the movie is relatively new on the scene, but
she nails it. Perfect range of up and down emotions.

I know a lot of you have seen To Catch a Predator. That show seems
scripted and fake when compared to this film. Trust gives you an inside
view of what something like this can do not only to a victim but also
to the victim's family. Clive Owen and Catherine Keener are spot-on and
deliver outstanding performances.

Scary good is the best way I can describe this movie. You'll walk away
knowing you just saw something important and you'll immediately want to
take steps to make sure it doesn't happen to you.

Please go see this. Tell your friend to go see it. This is definitely
an R-rated movie that every parent should take their teenager to go
see. The world would be a better place.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie deserves nationwide distribution. It is a riveting story and
although difficult to stomach at times, it's a MUST SEE for kids,
parents and teachers.

I saw this movie last night with my Cinema Society and was appalled to
hear that the movie was pulled from distribution. 

Are we such a sick society that opts for violence and science fiction
movies at the expense of a life altering film as Trust. David Schwimmer
is to be applauded for tackling such a disturbing subject matter. The
acting was superb- Clive Owen, Catherine Keener and Viola Davis did a
superb job.

The crime in this movie beyond the obvious is that such an important
film will not be seen by all the people in this country that need to
see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I belong to the first generation which was born in the middle of
hi-tech inventions and evolving Internet. I was teased at school and
felt that my parents didn't have enough time and understanding, so the
Internet was like another world with kind strangers and new friends.
They didn't judge me by my looks, they didn't know anything about my
past and so on.

I saw this movie yesterday and it hit me down, hard. I could understand
the need to be loved and the fear to be left alone. I was one of the
victims of a sexual predator, but the fact that they hunted via
Internet was either hushed up or people didn't simply know.

This film isn't about happy endings or life being fair. It's about a
family, a life of this day, different faces of love and last but not
least, surviving.

I want to thank everyone who made this film. I really hope this shakes
the parents to look after their kids when they are online. Does it
happen in the mall or via Internet, they are talking to strangers. Some
of them are okay, some of them are not. Teach them to be cautious
-Internet can be a great thing for lonely people, but at the same time
it's the most dangerous jungle.
<|_=00=_|>
Trust is an important film. This isn't fantasy, this is reality. For
whatever message Trust has, it's also about the emotion, pain, and
internet obsession.

If Trust was to be used towards educating, it isn't geared towards the
victims, but rather the people around the victim. The victims won't be
watching this film (for the subject matter), and it was a smart move to
portray the daily lives of teenagers realistically while still showing
the pain that occurs when situations like this happen. It's something
special when you can believe and feel what is happening on screen and
the creators of Trust did a terrific job keeping it true. There are
other subjects involved, such as how internet communication is
"breaking" the formalities of communication, how easily predators can
manipulate people by knowing their strengths and weaknesses, and how
you may not actually know your loved ones as much as you think you do.
There are many subject matters thrown into Trust, and they all play out
realistically to the point where the viewer will most likely relate to
them.

The performances were outstanding and, even if this is a 2010 film,
should be nominated at the next Academy Awards. Newcomer Liana Liberato
steals the show with one of the greatest performances I have seen
portraying a broken teenager. In a year where there were a few
outstanding performances by young actors (Hailee Steinfeld in True
Grit), I think Liana Liberato's underrated performance was the best of
last year. Clive Owen gives his most dramatic performance to date and
Catherine Keener has a few brilliant moments. Chris Coffey, who plays
Charlie the predator, gives a creepy (if brief) performance in the vain
of Stanley Tucci in "The Lovely Bones". 

David Schwimmer (Ross from the show "Friends") did a surprisingly good
job directing Trust. He got the most out of the actors and, considering
the serious subject matter, had a bleak, disturbing tone to the film.
The combination of a happy neighborhood/school/family worked well with
the one black spot which is the daughter, the victim. After the assault
happens, you see the world change and everyone's life becomes a little
darker. 

Should you watch Trust? Yes. The performances and the story alone make
it one not to miss. There are a couple of moments where you may shed a
tear. It's haunting for any age or gender. These crimes DO occur, and
they happen often. While it's not a film you watch with friends; it's
not an enjoyable film in the least, Trust is just one effective tale
that may stay in with you for a long time.
<|_=00=_|>
As a father to a teenage girl, and one soon to become one, this movie
was hard to watch. Took me 3 days to finish it, it was simply to
horrifying and disgusting to witness how those sick bastards do their
thing.

Now when that is said, I really value this movie. It is important and
necessary. It is an eye-opener to all 'tweenie' and teen parents.

This movie should be mandatory in the treatment of pedophiles, to make
them realize what they really are doing to their victims.

Finally I'd like to give full credit to the cast for outstanding
acting, and to David Schwimmer for his courage to make this film. You
did a good job David!
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film without any expectations. To be honest I saw David
Schwimmer was involved and let my head devalue the film before it even
started.

Boy was I wrong. Trust had me hooked from the first few minutes. The
subject matter is controversial to say the least but I feel it has been
handled very well here. In no way does it feel exploitative, in fact in
some areas I felt it was almost like a documentary.

Extremely hard to stomach in places it does not overdo the shock factor
as it may have done in other hands. The cast are superb, there is not
as I can see a weak link anywhere.

The only problem with this film is it's certification. Rating it R
means that the people who should be watching it can't. IMHO this film
should be given to every high/secondary school worldwide as Schindler's
List was.

If you have kids watch this film. Them watch it with your kids! This is
a subject that needs to be out there and I commend Mr Schwimer for
having the guts to make it!
<|_=00=_|>
I wonder if I was the only person who was surprised watching this to
see that David Schwimmer, Ross from the popular TV series "Friends",
was behind the camera for this film. Albeit, he had surprised me years
ago with his fantastic performance in the war mini-series "Band of
Brothers", where he portrayed a tough-as-nails drill instructor which
laid down any doubts that this man was the dumb softy he played for a
decade in "Friends". And now he directs Clive Owen ("King Arthur",
"Closer") in this shocking, honest and powerful film about a teenage
girl who falls under the charm of an online sexual predator, of which
the consequences shatter her family and lay bare any delusions that
even in a quiet comfortable suburbia, our kids, and even us, are safe.

Annie (Liana Liberato) is 14 and living a comfortable life with her
family in the suburbs of Chicago. A few days after her birthday, she
meets a sixteen year-old boy in an online chat room named Charlie. They
seem to have an instant connection, and as well as chatting online,
they text and call each other. Annie is head-over-heels for this young
man, as he comforts her and encourages whenever she feels down. But
then she finds out that he has lied about his age... and is actually in
his twenties. Annie is shocked at first, and angry that he lied, but
she forgives him, and agrees to meet up with him. And when she does,
Charlie of course, it not who he said he was, and is not what Annie
imagined. And a lack of maturity and indecision on the day leaves her
raped, humiliated and confused. And the consequences of this shatter
her family, as well as her.

The acting is absolutely fantastic all round. Liana Liberato gives us a
look of what is potentially a fine talent that will blossom over the
next few years, as she plays the lead role of fourteen year-old Annie.
Clive Owen, who I have always admired as an actor, plays her father,
whose reactions to what has happened to his daughter are as natural and
humane as any father's would be if this had happened to their daughter,
so I don't think the script called for much writing here. Oscar
nominated Catherine Keener (Best Supporting Actress "Being John
Malkovich" and "Capote") is her mother, whose way of coping with the
event is not to lash out, but instead, to try and move on and support
her daughter.

What I found to be the most powerful and shocking aspect of this film
was how easy it is for a paedophile to stalk and groom a young teenager
online and take advantage of the situation. I'd been aware of it, as
everyone is, but this is the first time I've seen the matter tackled
properly in film. I think that this film should be shown in schools,
and I know I might sound preachy here, but I think any parent would
agree with me on this. And besides, it's a very entertaining film
anyway. I look forward to more work from Schwimmer, and hopefully, it
will be on a similar calibre.
<|_=00=_|>
My issue is with how the 'crime' is framed - the words 'assault' and
'rape' are tossed about liberally. What is never mentioned is
'seduction', the enticement of naive young women /girls by appealing to
their romantic fantasies, which has a long social and literary history.
The need to feel 'loved' and 'special'. No violence is ever used. A
plot point unnoticed or unmentioned by any of the posters is the
father's profession. Advertising. Marketing stuff to 'tweens' using
highly sexualized images. Tweens are children between the ages of 9 or
10 and 13. They're fed a constant diet of the ways to be 'desirable'
and 'sexy, usually by buying stuff to make them look older and more
sexually available . How can parents overcome this barrage of noxious
merchandising - especially if that's what provides their good upper
middle class life. It also provide the psychological conditions, along
with the anonymity of the Internet, for the seduction of very young
girls. Charlie is an utter creep, but he's aided and abetted by an
economic order that will do anything to find new 'markets'.
<|_=00=_|>
David Schwimmer is not a man that I have a lot of faith in, not even to
make a decent soft-comedy, so he is perhaps one of the last people that
I would trust to properly make a movie about sexual abuse. Yet with
Trust he has not only proved himself unfairly maligned by such low
expectations but has also shown himself to be a director deserving of
only the highest. This is not just an improvement on his previous
effort, or a shaky, potential-filled first-step into the realm of
serious film-making. It is, at this point, one of the strongest dramas
of the year (It is billed as a 2010 production but didn't release
anywhere until late April this year).

To synopsise the film's story is to do the film a drastic dis-service,
not because of any great twists or revelations that it may contain
(though I found that there was a great sense of intrigue involved in
the experience; seeing just how far and in what direction the film
would go), but simply because on the surface it seems like such a bleak
and yet strangely banal premise: Girl meets Internet and the two fall
quickly in love, it is a symbiotic relationship and each builds the
other up to higher and higher points when, one day, her Internet meets
his and she is blinded by the bright, stunning storm that unfolds when
their new information hits her own, blinded until it is too late,
blinded until at last and unfortunately Girl meets Boy and everything
goes dark. In other, more straightforward terms, it is the same story
that we hear again and again on the news each night, that of the young
girls that fall prey to the planets new predators, the virtual wolves,
the pedophiles.

And yet this is exactly what sets this film apart from the other
examples of 'techno-terror' that are shooting up, now more rapidly than
ever. There is no attempt to dress the premise up like I did then, no
false poetics and no twist-of-genre. It is instead a straightforward
examination of what actually occurs inside the houses and minds of
these victims and, to my mind, it is baffling that this 'real' look is
the unique approach but not that it is also the most effecting by far.

A lot of the films emotion stems from a foundation laid in the opening
act; we are given a glimpse into the life of this family before the
incident and they are us. There is a very strong sense of
verisimilitude present in almost every scene; it would have been easy
for the film to stray into clich√© movie-family territory or fall into
the oh so prevalent trap of mishandling contemporary technology but
thankfully Schwimmer not only avoids these pitfalls but leaps them in a
single bound.

Even though it is Clive Owen and Catherine Keener that are on our
screen we just see 'the parents'; in Clive we see a father who loves
his kids and not an amalgam of starring roles (though I do have to
admit that I did think at times, 'Is Schwimmer using Owen as a kind of
sexier simulacrum of himself,' but perhaps that is just me). As
stunning as those two are in their roles, and I would say that it is
likely Owen's best, it is Liana Liberato's portrayal of central-teen
Annie that truly steals the show. Again, given the material, her role
could so easily have been played with an alloy of equal parts evocation
and exploitation but she really humanizes the character; we understand
her thinking and feel for her even if what we feel isn't always
positive. To think that this is virtually a debut performance is
amazing (she has only otherwise done small roles in straight-faced TV
procedurals to date) and I would not be surprised to see a lot more of
her in the future.

Though I would be surprised, and somewhat disappointed, to see more of
Schwimmer because he is just so damn good behind the camera that any
time spent in front from now on will seem as if a waste. His direction
excels on every level; not only does he show a lot of creativity in his
approach to the material - All SMS's and IM's appear on screen in
pop-up, colour-coded font which not only relieves us of the very tired
' Dictate everything you type' approach favored by the industry so far,
but it also provides a stunning layered effect to a lot of scenes,
where-in what the character is writing either adds to or spins the
on-screen action in a new direction - but he also manages to deliver
the base emotions with a certain kind of ease: when the characters are
nervous you bite your nails, when they are angry you steam, when
they're devastated you feel just as cold and alienated and when they
cry so do you. It sounds like such a simple and obvious thing when you
put it down on paper and yet there are few films that truly achieve it
like this one does.

It is then an entirely devastating ride, one behest of even the
whimsical visuals of Peter Jackson's Lovely Bones, and one not
recommended for the squeamish of soul, but it is also a great one and
one that I would whole-heartedly recommend to those who are up to it.
If movies are about escapism then this one delivers and if they are
about getting you to feel something, doubly so. Who knew Ross had it in
him all these years? O me of little faith.
