
This was not a great movie. It could have been a great movie, but it
was let down in two major ways. 

First off, two of the three lead characters are awful. Blake Lively
makes for good eye candy, but she just isn't a good actress. She's not
bad in smaller supporting roles (like her part in The Town), but she
simply cannot carry a lead. Unfortunately the entire film basically
revolves around her (and she narrates), so her shortcomings are brought
front and center. Every time her voice-over came on, I cringed. It
really was not a good choice. 

Taylor Kitsch is no better. Again... good eye candy, poor acting. Very
poor acting. He just has no soul, and brings absolutely nothing to his
character whatsoever. He should be in a brainless Fast & Furious movie
playing opposite Vin Diesel, not an Oliver Stone drama. 

The second major failure of this film is even more serious, and that is
the story structure. We are never really given the opportunity to
understand why the three lead characters (Chon, Ben and Ophelia) have
such strong feelings for each other. We're told that they do, but never
given any real reason to believe it. This is extremely important,
because literally the entire premise of the film hangs on their
relationship. If you're going to build a dramatic story around an
unorthodox three- way relationship, you had better explain in more than
one quick scene exactly how this relationship happened, otherwise the
audience won't know why they should care about the characters.
Especially when the actors portraying these characters aren't very good
to begin with. 

I know that I kept asking myself why these two guys share a girl, how
they have absolutely zero jealousy, why they never once thought of
double-crossing each other, and why either of them care so deeply for
her -- to the point of being willing to risk their lives and commit
horrible atrocities to save her. Where did all this love and loyalty
come from? It was never adequately explained, and the entire movie
suffers tremendously for it.

On a slightly more positive note, the veteran actors did a fine job.
Benicio Del Toro was wonderful as a psychotic cartel underboss, John
Travolta chewed the scenery to bits, and Salma Hayek was entirely
believable in her role as well. Unfortunately, their competence only
served to underscore the incompetence of the younger leads. It's
telling that the best scene in the entire film was between Del Toro and
Travolta, with none of the three lead actors anywhere to be found, and
hinted at the promise this movie squandered. 

A lot of reviews took issue with the violence portrayed in the film,
but I didn't have a problem with that. You really can't make a movie
about Mexican drug cartels without violence, so I didn't feel it was
gratuitous. Unfortunately, however, it also didn't make the movie any
more believable from a plot perspective.

Overall, I just don't think this was a very good film. I don't think
that Stone felt entirely comfortable with what he was doing here,
trying at times to be Tarantino but failing miserably. And likewise, I
think that if this film had been in the hands of Tarantino or Robert
Rodriguez, it likely would have come out much better, perhaps even
great.
<|_=00=_|>
There are many bad things about this movie, but let's list the good
things first. The plot makes sense, kind of. It's nicely shot, and the
beach looked pretty. And... I guess John Travolta looked as though he
was having fun? Which is more than I could say for the poor buggers who
had to sit through this mess.

Your two leads, ladies and gentlemen, are Aaron Johnson, last seen
being upstaged by a preteen girl, and Taylor Kitsch, who Hollywood
keeps casting as the lead in blockbusters which then tank spectacularly
at the box office. You know why that is, Hollywood? It's because Taylor
Kitsch has no charisma. None. The furniture was more interesting than
he was, and had more emotional range. Even he's better than Johnson, a
black hole of tedium from which nothing interesting can escape. These
are two of the blandest leads I've ever seen, and I've seen movies that
starred rappers.

But dear God in heaven, they are much, much better than Blake Lively. I
haven't seen much else of her acting, so I can only think she can do
much better than this. But here she's playing a 30-year-old ing√©nue, a
woman-child who knows Shakespeare but doesn't know what 'savages'
means. She's meant to be sexy and alluring, but she comes across as so
boundlessly stupid that no man could seriously find her attractive. I
don't think that's her fault, but the no-nudity clause that made the
sex scenes in this movie so absurd? Yeah, that was her fault.

Even that isn't the worst. There's still... that voice-over. The
narration that infests this whole movie, but especially the early
scenes, is some of the worst writing I've ever heard. 'I had orgasms,
he had wargasms' is a phrase that will live with me until I die. And
now, even if you haven't seen the movie, it'll haunt your nightmares,
too. You're welcome.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see 'Savages' today with a friend. The movie was truly a
pathetic waste of celluloid and talent. The script seems to have been
written with a crayon.

Benicio del Toro and Selma Hayek are capable of much better than this
dreck. Blake Lively was horribly weak and miscast as a poor little rich
girl who is in love with two professional pot growers in California.
The two guys live and share her with each other, all like a big happy
family. Ridiculous.

The only thing even remotely reminiscent of Oliver Stone's finer works
is the realistic graphic violence (Platoon, Natural Born Killers).
Unfortunately the violence is ham- handed and boring.

SPOILER:

At the very beginning of the movie the two protagonist
pot-growing-buddies receive a video message warning from the South
American cartel headed by Selma Hayek's character. The video is so
shocking, so disturbingly violent, that how the main characters react
to it is completely non-believable. Attached to the video is a place
and time the cartel wants to meet the expert growing duo the next day
to force them into a contract with the cartel.---Any normal person
receiving this video warning would disappear/pack up and flea
immediately. But no, instead the guys chill out, smoke pot, and have
sex until the next day as if their lives aren't in mortal danger...this
is just one of the major weaknesses in the plot.

Emile Hirsch is completely underused as a bicycling expert computer
hacker who is capable of hacking into the credit card companies and
international bank accounts of the cartel; he would have been better
cast as one of the two main male characters. 

John Travolta phones in a lackluster performance as a crooked DEA agent
who just happens to have a wife dying from cancer. Whenever he brings
her up (we never see her) he is always lighthearted and smiling; he
might as well be discussing his golf handicap...

The ending seems to have been decided "by committee." Seems like the
studio couldn't figure out how the movie should end so they give us two
endings; the film literally rewinds and shows the second, alternate
ending....just pathetically bad. There were audible groans from the
audience...

The movie is 2 hours 15 minutes; could have been trimmed by a half hour
or more...

The plot is a train wreck; Oliver Stone said in a recent interview
about the film that the book this is based on had 120 different scenes;
he trimmed that down to 30. He said he was more inspired by rather than
actually trying for a faithful adaption. This is a real tragedy and the
movie suffers for it. Mr. Stone basically was too lazy to get it right;
this movie could have been a classic like the Pacino/De Niro
masterpiece, Heat. This is too bad as the source book material for
'Savages' is highly regarded.

Truly a bad, poorly written movie. Stupid and logic-defying.

I was excited to see this; I was hoping for a Pulp Fiction/Natural Born
Killers vibe (that's what the preview falsely promises).

This is Oliver Stone's low point; he can only go up from here. Please
don't waste your time, energy, or money on this bloated, overlong,
waste of talent, piece of crap. A true raspberry. Insulting to fans
that have come to expect realistic and compelling films from Mr. Stone.

There are lapses in logic within this film that are worse than cheap
'Friday the 13th' films; things that no rational human being who values
their safety/life would ever do. And this is inexcusable as this movie
portends to be a serious and realistic tale. 'Lethal Weapon' is more
plausible. So is 'The Dark Knight.' 

'Savages' plays like a cheap, second-tier comic book of a film. Putrid
and sad.

On a positive note, my friend and I had a pretty entertaining
discussion on the way home from the theater discussing the colossal
absurdity of what we had just sat through...I wish I could say 'this
movie was so bad it's good.' Unfortunately it's just plain BAD. Very
disappointing.
<|_=00=_|>
Oliver Stone has a reputation of excellent film making (Natural Born
Killers, Platoon), but what I saw in the movie theater last night was
easily one of the worst films I've ever seen in my entire life. 

First the characters are two dimensional. The two male leads are
introduced as basically "the tough guy" and the "sensitive guy". Their
performances were mediocre at best. Taylor Klitsch was dry and brought
nothing special to the role. The female lead "O" (Blake Lively) seems
to have nothing particularly interesting about her, and her voice
narrating makes the sound of a root canal suddenly more appetizing.
Stone wants the audience to view these three characters as heroes, but
I don't see it. The characters don't do anything significant they just
grow weed, smoke weed, and have sex. Stone tries to get the audience on
our side when he presents the benefits of marijuana but instead it
comes across as 20-30 minutes of "legalize" propaganda followed by 10
minutes of renewable energy information.

Speaking of propaganda, the political and social themes in this movie
are about as subtle as prison rape. It seems that instead of making a
film about a group of people who live an alternative lifestyle, Stone
has created a film about alternative lifestyles featuring some people.
Blake Lively narrates a sort of montage of the marijuana industry,
where all the minor characters are young, wealthy, and attractive, not
to mention that marijuana is portrayed as a lifestyle, dare I say
religion. Was this movie supposed to be realistic at some point? I
don't know if I should have been eating popcorn in the theater or
weaving a hemp bracelet. 

AHHH but the trailer has guns! It features violence! Well... sort
of.... just when you think the movie will redeem itself with some guns
blazing action it simply doesn't deliver on this either. There are a
few explosions that any high-schooler with an M-80 could pull off in
their garage, some CGI blood, and the only good violent scene is so
late in the movie that the audience doesn't react. 

I don't understand where these millions of dollars went because they
weren't in this movie, either Oliver Stone is a terrible film maker or
an awesome crook. Terrible acting, terrible action, terrible script,
absolutely TERRIBLE. Save yourself the aggravation and skip this movie.
I haven't been this upset with cinema since Bill Murray did Garfield. I
feel so strongly about this film that I will never spend my money on
another Oliver Stone movie ever again.
<|_=00=_|>
Best friends Chon (Kitsch) and Ben (Johnson) are genius pot dealers in
Laguna. One of them is more of a "save the universe" type guy and holds
a degree in Business and Botany. Yes, pot heads in High Schools
everywhere just rejoiced "It's a real thing!" and the other one,
suffering from anger issues stemming from tours in Iraq takes care of
the "beating the crap out of people when necessary" aspect. Oh yeah,
they also share a girlfriend. (Awkward right?), her name is O (Lively).
No really it is I swear. Anyways, moving on because we have to, these
two guys have made some of the best pot known to man and have made
millions from it. (Still can't find their own girlfriend though, just
saying). Everything is going great as they take turns with their shared
girlfriend (still weird) in their huge beach house when the Mexican
drug cartel decides they want to be partners. This actually stands for
"We own you now and you know you like it." Ben and Chon don't really
feel like being De-decapitated so they decide to make a go of living in
a jungle somewhere until Elena (Hayeck) the ruthless lady leader of the
cartel has O kidnapped.

So are you over the fact that our two heroes share a girl yet? OK good,
because I'm not either. This is one of those films that can only be
enjoyed if you can let go of a few things. The whole film is narrated
by O in her stoned and lazy version of her "OMG you guys I am so high
right now" voice. She is a lot like her role in The Town only without
the Boston accent. She is really annoying as a character and it's kind
of hard to feel bad for her much less root for her. This is one of the
things you have to let go of to enjoy the film. Ben and Chon worked
well because they are the exact opposite to one another yet somehow
have the respect for each-other to get along despite their constant
different point of views. Kill everybody or run away. Ben was almost as
annoying as O because he was always whining and psycho-analyzing
everything. I found Chon to be my favorite of the three because he
seemed to be the only one who just wanted to actually get things done
and blow up some stuff while everyone else talked and talked some more.

Villains make films though and despite the awkwardness and
UN-likability of some of the lead roles the bad guys were sinister,
relentless and kind of funny at times. One interaction between Elena's
ruthless right hand man Lado (Del Toro) and out for himself FBI agent
Dennis (Travolta) in particular was tense and humorous at the same
time. Travolta was surprisingly great in this film as he looked like
his old self and I was pleased to see he had a larger part in the film
than anticipated. Elena had a well written back story as well as the
bad guys, while certainly crude enough to hate were interesting enough
to steal the flick. 

Savages UN-intentionally gives us no-one to root for and may even get
on your nerves for a moment or two with its anything goes mentality.
There is no doubt however, that it has some great action sequences,
well written dialog (minus a few horrendous lines by O's character),
strong acting by a strong cast and is an all-around well-made film all
the way up until it's absolutely dreadful crash and burn of an ending.
I won't give anything away here but let's just say this ending is a
problem. It felt as though the Director had a decent ending for a good
film but wanted some attention so badly that he was willing to ruin his
own movie to do so. You don't always have to be edgy and cute.
Sometimes playing things straight up is what's best.
<|_=00=_|>
In Mr. Stone's "Platoon," brutal, direct Barnes and mellow, intelligent
Elias battle for Charlie Sheen's mortal soul. Whether familiar or pet,
Mr. Stone plumbs the theme again in "Savages." Unfortunately "Savages"
glides into a land far, far away from "Platoon."

The predominate feeling from "Savages" is it was about a Hollywood
deal. Mr. Stone not only phoned in a (co-telephoned) script but the
direction as well. His renowned editorial and textural format tricks
fail to enhance the storytelling as in "Natural Born Killers." Here,
they are plugged in to assuage any fears "Savages" might not be a Stone
film. Casting adds to the feel-of-the-deal. Bluntly, Ms. Lively would
never exit a paper bag were she to depend upon her acting to do so.
Kitsch and Johnson are directly behind her. Mr. Travolta chews the
scenery like he's in a high school production supporting role. Ms
Hayek, at least, turns in a good performance.

Given the 24 Hour news cycle's coverage of the Mexican-American drug
war, it's difficult to dramatize an inherently insane subject. Little
effort is needed to find chilling video of men hanging upside down like
a side of beef being castrated with a dull knife. The corruption
greasing the drug distribution wheels as they travel to El Norte is
also common knowledge. That leaves the need for a personal story about
these purveyors, or at least a new slant (save a female Cartel leader).
All that is missing in the pulpy and broad "Savages."

On the Pulp: early on it's clear the typically amazing Mr. Del Toro's
performance is derived from Silent's mustachioed villains. Later he
actually twirls his mustache. At this point there was an expectation,
"Nyah-Ha-Ha," would pass his lips.

The "Savages" cast and Mr. Stone recently sat for an interview on PBS'
"Charlie Rose." The usually garrulous Mr Stone said nary a word about
this story, which, in case you're interested, goes something like this:
a female-led Cartel, losing money, sets out to swallow smaller players,
including one growing 'Primo'. The business is high-tech and run by two
high school buddies: a tough physically and emotionally scarred Ex-SEAL
(Barnes) who served in the Middle East and a granola-eating college boy
(Dual Major - Botany and Business) who wants to save the world (Elias).
The woman they share is kidnapped when Butch and Sundance (Ms. Lively
actually refers to them as such, paints herself as Etta Place and
doesn't want to be around when they die) insult the Cartel Queen. Ms.
Lively differentiates them as "one likes to f@&k, the other makes
love." And the Ex-SEAL has 'wargasms'????

Guess the story's path and how many bodies fall.

In a punk opening scene, Ms. Lively's voice-over drives a flashback and
leaves open her fate by story's end. This sets up an insulting,
gimmicky twist ending that's also punk and not to be spoiled. Throw
your own Milk Duds at the screen.

Among too few, "Savages" saving grace is the Political subtext the
left-leaning, axe-grinding Mr. Stone loves to incorporate. Anywhere
along in "Savages" merely substitute the words Afghanistan or Iraq for
Mexico. Here, however, Mr. Stone's political restraint works against
"Savages."

The other small savior of this disappointing film is the universally
held belief others are savages. A brutal killer, a Mexican, believes
the Americans are savages because they share a woman. The Americans
believe the Mexicans are savages because they decapitate people just
because it's Tuesday. A closer look at the great cultural differences
separated by a common border is also AWOL.

Action fans may get their fix from "Savages." There is sick brutality,
double-dealing and lots of bang bang. There just isn't enough glue in
between to hold it together or give it some meaning. And that's the
fault of the usually spot-on-relevant Mr. Stone.

Don't spend your bread. This dog will be on Netflix by September.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to find a decent movie lately. Was another disappointment for
me, no surprise there.Don't be fooled by the cast. Sex, violent, a
little action is enough(!) for some apparently (judging by the high
votes). Not for me though...

The outcome of the movie in summary; -You can have a good life with
drug business (with that great education background), get away with it
and have a happy ending! -Sharing is caring even If its your -so much
in love- girlfriend! -You can have two guys and a sweet life, if you
are a sexy pretty dumb blonde with issues; you don't even have to work!
-Running a cartel is easier than dealing with your daughter!

You may also categorize this movie in 'fiction' genre, with that very
happy threesome. Seriously? A girl and 2 guys. Does it exist?? My vote
is Benicio only (ok, a little for Travolta and Hayek). Have to admit I
also enjoyed gorgeous Kitsch's topless scenes.
<|_=00=_|>
Oliver Stone...you sir, have lost your touch. After making such
brilliant films as JFK, Platoon and Natural Born Killers, you have
lowered yourself to the likes of Wall Street 2 and this heaping pile of
dog manure, Savages.

The star of the movie, Blake Lively, essentially plays a spoiled whore.
Hard to root for that type of person. She is paired up with 2 rich
entrepreneurs. Now, I know there are different relationships on this
planet, but I find it a bit hard to believe that 2 young, attractive,
in-shape rich guys would end up sharing a girlfriend like that...it
just didn't feel possible. Atrocious writing. Then, in a line that
rivals "Oh my Godddd" from Troll 2 and "He's the Lawrence of my labia"
from Sex and the City 2, Lively spouts, when speaking of screwing the
war veteran, "I have orgasms. He has wargasms." Grrrrr! How f-ing
stupid is that f-ing line?!?! It pisses me off to be honest with you.
Wargasms? Come on. Just bad writing.

The voice-over from Lively as well...terrible. It truly sounded like an
audition tape from one of those online broadcasting colleges. And Emile
Hirsch...what was he doing in this movie? His part should have been
played by a talented extra. He was completely wasted, a "nothing" role.
Hirsch personally must have had a few difficult days driving into work
during filming, wondering where his career was heading.

And how in the world, Stone, are you going to start a movie off with
the voice-over of Lively saying something to the effect of "just
because I'm talking at the start doesn't mean I'm alive at the
end"...just for her to end up being friggin alive at the end?! WTF?!
But I could excuse all these things...all of them...if the movie wasn't
such a BORE! Stone should be having fun with this movie, ala Natural
Born Killers, instead he made a cheap, lazy, boring movie with a
terrible ending that ended up costing me $5 and two hours of my life.
Oliver Stone, you sir, can supple upon my ball sack! 

JD
<|_=00=_|>
It was OK enough---it was definitely well directed--but the film
would've benefited a lot from three better actors in the central roles.
Don't get me wrong--its not that Taylor Kitch or Aaron Johnson aren't
decent enough--both play their roles with exactly the same kind of
stiffness that i guess suit their characters' circumstance but neither
really add anything beyond what the screenplay has already provided
them.. like if this were made say 10-15 years ago and you'd of had
Steve Zhan and Ben Affleck in it i'm not saying it would've been batter
but the two of them would've made you care for what might happen to the
main characters a bit more i feel like. I'd rather not get into the
lack of any kind of convincing emoting from Blake Lively here--- (She's
supposed to be afraid for her life here--and somehow its like she's
barely miffed---its as if instead of her life that's being threatened
its her wi-fi connection.) having read the book this was based on--the
character O in the story was a lot more resourceful and a lot more
crazy then Blake Lively ever suggests in the two hours of running
time---would that they had cast literally anybody else in her part,just
off the top of my head would Lauren Ambrose from six feet under have
been considered too old??? would Krysten Ritter??? would Kirsten Bell??
hell Alexis Bidel might of been able to pull this off better (and as
much as i love Rory Gilmore emoting was never exactly her strong suit)
at least Blake Lively's narrating was OK...i just really wish they
could've found someone who could have really put this movie over the
top here. God again if this was made like 10-15 years ago--imagine what
a younger Juliette Lewis or a younger Illeana Douglas could've done
with this.

That's really all i actually wanted to say cause everything else was
fine enough--i was kind of expecting it to be more over the top if
anything given that its Oliver St one's first crime film in a little
while but its definitely over the top enough to satisfy anyone looking
for an over the top crime movie. Its good enough that it overcomes the
somewhat major obstacles in its path to keep you watching and keep you
entertained but again with a little different casting--this could of
been first rate.
<|_=00=_|>
Reading the reviews i'm not sure why people were expecting this movie
to be like an Oscar winner or something? Going in I wasn't expecting it
to be an Oscar winner, if you were expecting this movie to be about a
Mexican cartel and not have violence in it then you know zero about
Mexican cartels and that is an understatement.

Funny thing was i was expecting this movie not to portray Mexican
cartels in their real light, but after watching the movie, yup they are
as ruthless as the movie portrays and glad Hollywood portrayed them
like that instead of sugar coating the threat they pose to the world.

If you are looking for a violent action movie based on an American drug
ring vs a Mexican cartel well you probably have one of the better
movies when it comes to that. If you are looking for gone with the
wind, sound of the music or something like that best look else where.
Me, I highly enjoyed the movie, it delivered better than i thought it
was going to deliver. People will complain about the violence but again
this is about a Mexican cartel, not the boy scouts. There is nothing i
hate more than a movie that isn't true to it's roots, but this movie
stays true to what Mexican cartels are all about when it comes to
business.
