
Funny isn't it how one film can illicit such varied responses from
different people? But of course those who dislike it most yell the
loudest - yes I'm looking at you nicakpopolis and co - I'm sorry that
you're so smart and the rest of the audience who were laughing are such
idiots. Truly. Just because you didn't like a movie, it doesn't make
the rest of us fools. Ego out of control. And if you didn't even watch
the whole thing (chrisliz) then you probably shouldn't review it. And
if you didn't like the trailer why would you see it anyway!? Aren't
people funny? Anyway I reckon this movie is OK. It doesn't pretend to
be anything it isn't. If you're after a bit of laugh out loud escapism
this is for you (and if it isn't...stay at home or see something else
and save us all from having to read your bile ridden comments). Cheers
mark
<|_=00=_|>
You meet the girl of your dreams, and with the feeling being mutual,
decide to fast track the romance into marriage. It's one of the big
decisions in life, and so you engage some help from your pals, who
happen to be some of the most disorganized bunch ever, unintentionally
lining up what would be one of life's most memorable events with a
series of mishaps and accidents that are just waiting to happen, from
run ins with drug dealers, abuse of drugs and drink, and an animal
featured somewhere as well. No this is not The Hangover films, although
at first glance A Few Best Men may seem to tread on similar territory.

Unlike the American films that focus on extreme shenanigans, A Few Best
Men may deal with similar wedding blues in comedic fashion, but was
rather a bit more restrained in its grossness, although toilet humour
is something staple that is never too far away and utilized when
there's a need to for maximum effect. This Australian production
follows a more British route with witty repartee, and quirky, zany
characters peppering the landscape, with probably the only sane people
in the entire film being the groom David (Xavier Samuel) and his bride
Mia (Laura Brent).

The titular characters refer to David's best mates Tom (Kris Marshall)
who's usually the catalyst of problems with his indifferent attitude,
Graham (Kevin Bishop) the somewhat dim witted follower, and Luke (Tim
Draxi) who still can't get over the break up with his ex. Together they
lend support to David as his best men for his wedding, making that
round the world trip from England to Australia. Mia on the other hand
comes from a political family, with a senator for a dad in Jim
(Jonathan Biggins) whose more than proud to turn his daughter's wedding
into political gain, wife Barbara (Olivia Newton-John, probably the
largest name in this ensemble), and sister Daphne (Rebel Wilson last
seen in What To Expect When You're Expecting). With worlds so different
colliding together, sparks fly in similar, slowly but surely fashion to
Meet the Fockers, with a scene being somewhat of a lift off The
Hangover when the stag's night out turned into one big blur.

A Few Best Men sees the long awaited return by director Stephan
Elliott, who did the acclaimed Priscilla Queen of the Desert. And I
have to admit unabashedly that I'm somewhat of a fan of writer Dean
Craig's work, after what he did with Death at a Funeral, dealing with
something similar with family and friends' shenanigans standing out
during life's ceremonies, and in a way this film seemed like a
spiritual companion to his earlier work for the way it encompassed rip
tickling moments over one of life's major rituals. It's basically
Murphy's Law put on display here, with everything that can go wrong
actually do go wrong, with a couple of surprise (some may argue
convenient) twists thrown in for good measure.

The soundtrack is also noteworthy in the film, consisting of mostly
evergreens and oldies from the 60s and 70s, and having Olivia
Newton-John lend her vocals as well. In fact, her character becomes
what would be the live wire of the film as it wore on, together with
Kris Marshall and Kevin Bishop drawing the loudest of laughs thanks to
their subplot involving their quest for weed from which everything got
intricately tied to no thanks to their being stuck with contraband
drugs, and being quite inept in helping the groom settle and solve the
mess they got everyone into.

If one is game for ensemble films and buddy type ones where the
inevitably lessons extracted will be themes on brotherhood, friendship
and family, with lots of laughs thrown in from good measure, then A Few
Best Men would be your choice this week during the summer season
breather in between blockbusters hitting the cinemas. Highly
recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
Previewed at the Rome film festival. Even given the fact that festival
films are usually pretty poor - and you are grateful for anything
average - A Few Best Men is hilarious. Olivia Newton John (and, no,
she's not 'nearly 70' reviewer No 1, but 63) delivers a stand-out
performance as an elegant mother of the bride and Brit' actor Kris
Marshall brings a smile to the face every time he's on screen. It's a
sharp script, slapstick at times, and sums up the mood of a
contemporary expensive wedding. Why there has been a recent fashion of
having three best men to a wedding - and I've been to several in recent
years - I don't know. But the writer exploits the situation and also
the clash of cultures between Britain and Australia. Good performances
all round, some very funny scenes and a realism which works in comedy.
I can be a miserable film-watcher and have walked out of plenty. But
this brightened my week.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to quickly start by saying that if you're not going to watch an
entire movie you shouldn't be writing a review; it doesn't benefit
anybody.

This film started badly; it was clich√©'d, predictably written and the
acting was average at best. I got 20 minutes in and nearly gave up. I'm
glad I stayed though, because this film snowballs in to a hilarious
treat with utter chaos brimming out of every scene in the third act.
It's not that you didn't see it coming, because you usually do, but
that you weren't expecting it to all come at once! There's a perfect
moment with the groom party, a gun and an unconscious sheep that is
funnier than any single part of the Hangover, though taken as a whole
it falls a little short.

If you're expecting to be knocked out by a sensitive, provocative and
intelligent drama then you'll be disappointed, but not every film
should cater to the highest common denominator. If you've got 138
minutes to kill and feel like laughing at something preposterous then
you could do a lot worse than this.
<|_=00=_|>
I usually like Brit humor and, to be honest, movies that make me cringe
I don't usually find entertaining. Other than the most vomitous
soundtrack I have ever subjected my ears to this was NOT as bad as some
reviewers have indicated. I don't know why someone that is offended by
low brow humor would even watch this kind of comedy. And I find it a
LITTLE bit pretentious to expect this movie to be Henry James. For what
it was it wasn't too bad. It was predictable in places and , I confess
to cringing more than once, but I didn't expect some esoteric mind
numbing voyage when I watched the movie and in that I wasn't
disappointed. As one reviewer said it wasn't "Death at a Funeral" but I
don't feel I have wasted hours of my life.
<|_=00=_|>
On a tropical holiday David (Xavier Samuel) meets an Australian girl
named Mia (Laura Brent) and they quickly fall in love. At a surprise
party back home in the UK, David tells his three mates that he and Mia
are getting married in Australia. The lads are unhappy about this
because they don't want to lose him and also because they'll have to
fly over there. They're an odd bunch. Tom (Kris Marshall) doesn't want
to grow up. Graham (Kevin Bishop) is always pushed around by the other
lads and Luke (Tim Draxl) is miserable, trying to win his ex-girlfriend
back. The men arrive in Australia and are at the mercy of Mia's strict
father Jim (Jonathan Biggins) and his wife Barbara (Olivia
Newtown-John). Jim is a wealthy senator, looking to impress his
contacts with the lavish wedding but is frequently at odds with his
other daughter Daphne (Rebel Wilson), who may or may not be a lesbian.
The lads find themselves in trouble when they try purchasing some
marijuana from a drug dealer with emotional problems and also when they
have a crazy night together, the day before the wedding. They wake up
to find they've been tormenting Jim's prized campaign sheep. 

Colourful British wit makes light of black Aussie humour, burying
memories of awful local comedies from the early millennium. The film is
an Australian-UK coproduction. It was directed by an Australian,
Stephan Elliott, but written by Dean Craig, the same Brit who penned
Death at a Funeral (2007). That was another film I greatly enjoyed and
this is a similar mixture of genres. It combines fish out of water with
comedic farce, along with setups from countless other films. It is
impossible not to recall the likes of Death at a Funeral and even The
Hangover (2009). Yet the essential ingredients for a great movie on its
own rights have not been forgotten. This is the funniest Australian
film I have seen in years. What's important here is how the comedy is
played out. The lads here are fools and regularly make a meal out of
everything they touch. Yet you can't bring yourself to hate them
because we understand they're out of their depth in a foreign
environment, both geographically and class-wise too. And this might
just be my own jet- black sense of humour talking but there is
something immensely appealing to watch and listen to with
self-depreciative humour. The lads in this movie are gifted comedians.
They know how to keep a straight face as they poke fun of themselves,
their social problems and eccentricities. I enjoyed the film enormously
for this reason, the lack of winking, but also the variety of comedy
too. On top of the rapid quips between the men and their jabs at each
other, there are some delicious sight gags too. The film never makes a
huge point of them, so look sharply for a picture of the Queen wearing
Joker makeup, or the face of an airline passenger after Graham tries to
defend his Hitler moustache. I enjoy comedy when it speaks for itself
and lets us read the jokes without any help. By far my favourite scene
is, I think, when Graham has to give an unprepared best man speech and
is so high that he spends the whole time talking about something
indescribable.

The silences of the guests and the way the camera scans the reaction of
their faces is just hysterical. Screenwriter Dean Craig employs a lot
of the same farce-like comedy from Death at a Funeral, with people
behind doors, o r moving in and out of rooms secretively. The material
is reused cleverly because director Elliott gives us a complete
overview of the impending chaos. Take the scene where the boys are
trying to attend to the sheep they've tormented. The camera cuts to the
corridor outside the room, providing vision of who is about to walk in
on them. Just like the wedding speech scene, they know how to really
build the tension and extend the jokes. The comedy works because
there's a lot at stake. Just when you think a giant ball crushing the
wedding is the craziest the film can become, you're wrong: it continues
to reach new levels of insanity. For as well constructed as a lot of
the film is, some of the editing is noticeably choppy. Snippets of
scenes sometimes feel out of place, or interrupt confrontations and
could have been removed altogether. This is a small complaint that most
people won't notice and its mostly in the first half too. For all of
this film's lunacy, and there's a lot, the tension comes from
characters that have resemblance of actual feelings. David is a
sympathetic lead because he's torn between his mates, his only real
family we learn, and a far more prestige life that he is trying to
adapt to. I particularly liked it when he and Mia started questioning
how little they know about each other. It's a sensible turning point.
The lovable lads are very distinctive and funny with their sets of
problems but they share some of the laughs with the women too. I
particularly liked Olivia Newton-John as the mother with a wild side.
This gem of a film was absolutely delightful and I sincerely hope its
quality is indicative of all Australian films this year.
<|_=00=_|>
It is good to see that Australia is returning to the comedy idiom after
such a long absence since Muriel's Wedding and Priscilla going back to
the early 90's Having said that although I found it quite amusing the
first half an hour was a bit flat and until it got into the silliness
that most of the comedy consisted of it did not hit the mark. Olivia
Newton John surprises in a comedy performance as mother of the bride
and it was good to see this Australian icon back on the big screen. The
absurdity of some of the situations that unfold is certainly
reminiscent of Death at a Funeral but falls short of that comedy gem.
Nevertheless it is worth going to see and has more laughs than some
American so called comedies
<|_=00=_|>
I use IMDb a lot for reviews and ratings as much as for info about the
movies. In fact for years I've been using it as a non-member. It took
this unbelievably awful movie to make me sign in and write my first
review ever. There is nothing redeemable about this rubbish. The
characters are awful, the acting horrendous, the directing abysmal, the
plot ridiculous. This is supposed to be a modern, funky British
slapstick with a good dollop of Australian blunt humour, but what it
turns out to be is a pathetic, amateurish, cringe-worthy waste of film.
Whatever you do, never watch this movie. Every copy needs to be wiped
and all records of it expunged.
<|_=00=_|>
A Few Best Men mixes The Hangover with Meet the Parents with
unhilarious results. At least the film has nice covers of some old
songs. So let us also throw in The Wedding Singer as well.

David (Xavier Samuel) visiting from England meets Australian Mia (Laura
Brent) on holiday and rapidly get engaged.

David goes to his wedding taking his three best friends wit him at
Mia's mansion in the Blue Mountains in Australia where Laura's Dad is a
big time conservative politician and very straight laced.

Tom (Kris Marshall) is the cheeky one, (Kevin Bishop) is moronic and
Luke (Tim Draxl) feeling down after a break up.

The trio accidentally end up getting a dealer's bag of cocaine and then
with some shenanigans with a sheep. At the wedding there are all sorts
of escapades including a rolling boulder causing havoc, the ripped off
drug dealer also crashing into the wedding and the inept best man
speech which still lazily refers to Australians being convicts.

Only the bride and groom seem to be normal. Rebel Wilson as the bride's
sister gives it some spirit and a very smoothed Olivia Newton John
snorting cocaine stops it being a total fail. The film goes all out for
gross humour but it is predictable and risible.
<|_=00=_|>
Whilst I found myself laughing during this film, and feeling good for
having seen it, I am frankly shocked by the crimes committed in review
number 2. The script is not sharply written, by ANY stretch of the
imagination. Frankly, what was clearly intended to be comic dialogue is
in essence nothing more than obscenities. I walked into the cinema
expecting some refreshing British wit and humour and all I received was
nob-gags and slapstick. Don't get me wrong, American style humour,
whilst different, is very funny when written well, but this is not on
that level. My laughter was forced for the duration of this film, and
frankly I expected more from the likes of Kris Marshal and Kevin
Bishop. And there was so much potential for Australian cultural humour,
even of the crass variety, but that well is left untapped throughout.
And as for the supposed 'realism' that some reviews claim, this is
possibly the most unconvincing comedy I've ever seen! Since when can
positions in the Australian parliament be inherited? That said the film
is rather heart-warming at times, with the central couple having a
genuinely convincing chemistry. And Olivia Newton John provides a
frankly staggering comic turn. But on the whole this film fell short of
expectations, and is just a bit disappointing. By all means watch it if
you're in the mood for cheap laughs, of which there are plenty, but
don't go expecting British comedy gold because you simply will not get
it.
