
At first I had pretty low expectations for this film because of its
first teaser, but then the first full length trailer made me look
forward to it, and now that I've seen it, I have to say, you will enjoy
this once you see it. It's very vibrant and filled with colour, which
makes for a bright and exciting time, the trolls themselves are all
really cute and colorful, and they are usually really funny in a
situation and they are always positive and full of hope. It has a very
well thought storyline, even if it does sound a bit generic at first,
but it feels new and so fresh and original when you see it. And there
is a lot of signing and dancing, and a lot of musical cues, and the
songs really do get to you, as they are very catchy. And at times this
film is very heartwarming, and a bit emotional at places, but that's
sort of what you'd expect from a film like this. So overall, definitely
see this one, as it is a cute, colorful, funny and heartwarming
adventure that the whole family will enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a 30 year old man, so probably not what the producers envisioned as
their primary market, but I still love this movie!

Being a raver at heart, it's fun to watch these troll live in the
ultimate psychedelic fantasy. With non-stop music, dancing, hugs, and
trippy hairdos, these Trolls know how to keep it PLUR! 

I'm not usually a big fan of musicals, but this movie has a nice
variety of songs and keeps them short, fun, and too the point. Never a
moment to get bored. Most of the songs are very clich√©, generic, pop
songs, but they are catchy and upbeat, so it's hard to complain.

Anna Kendrick and Justin Timberlake have great chemistry and put a lot
of personality into the characters. I think they nailed it.

I feel like the team that made this movie did a great job collaborating
between the writing, acting, and animation to create lots of really
great moments for characters that a truly hilarious. Unlike most
comedies, this one seems to get funnier each time I watch it. I can't
get enough of the fun characters and find myself smiling throughout the
day thinking of the great moments in this film.

Creative musical numbers like "Sounds of Darkness" perfectly complement
hilarious comedy scenes like the encounter with M. Cloud, and lead me
to believe that the guys who directed this movie have a lot of talent. 

I'm surprised this film doesn't have a higher rating. I really can't
think of what is not to like, but I'm guessing it's just one of those
things where you either love it or hate it. I can see it becoming
somewhat of a cult classic. I really hope it made enough money that we
will get to see a sequel!
<|_=00=_|>
I took my 5 1/2 year old daughter to watch Trolls, and for her it was a
sight for sore eyes. The main character, Poppy (voiced by Anna
Kendrick) is a fluffy, instantly lovable princess troll, who has been
raised in a careless, yet slightly obnoxious, world - where everyone
hugs each other on an hourly basis, poops cupcakes and bursts into
sappy pop tunes in the blink of the eye. Her male counterpart, on the
other hand, is all doom and gloom. This troll party pooper, named
Branch and colored gray to differentiate him from the endlessly
colorful group of merry trolls, keeps warning his friends that their
loud lifestyle will put their lives in jeopardy, once the evil Bergens,
who are only happy when they eat the tiny little Trolls, will take
notice of them. Sure enough, this does happen pretty soon into the
movie, and when several Trolls are taken - Poppy and Branch (who
refuses to sing throughout the film, even though he is ironically
voiced by Justin Timberlake) need to join forces in order to save them.

All in all, Trolls is a very cute film. It stands out of the pack with
its familiar setting (the Troll toys have been very popular ever since
the early 90's), its rich palette of colors and imaginative drawings,
and the catchy tunes which are cleverly adapted into the film. Also,
its short run-time will make sure your kids are glues to the chair. On
the flip side, I felt the plot didn't really offer anything new, the
proceedings were predictable from miles away, and that it lacked a
stronger emotional pull that could have left a longer impression. There
was some stuff in the movie that seemed like it was trying a bit too
hard to be tongue-in- cheek, without really taking itself seriously,
and while it gave way to a few laughs, it left me wanting something
more than just another cute animated feature.
<|_=00=_|>
I very firmly believe that Trolls is the summation of cinematic
garbage. It is only for one specific reason that I give this "movie"
more than 1 star, and that is because it will most likely entertain
your children. Where to even begin? At the beginning we are introduced
to the main antagonists, the Bergens. It is rather unfortunate that
most of the Bergens are more fleshed out than the main characters. Who
are the main characters, you may ask? The titular Trolls. The Trolls
can hardly even be called characters. None of them have any
personalities, and I could just barely tell them apart from each other
by their physical traits. There was ONE character I did not despise at
the beginning, the character of Branch, a Troll who refuses to be happy
like the rest of the village. This character was the only thing keeping
me from falling asleep and completely despising this movie. However, he
eventually is given a sob-story background, and becomes yet another of
the cookie-cutter personalities infesting this picture like lice. In
addition, the script is awful and generic, and the film cannot even
decide what tone it wishes to take. Finally, my biggest gripe is that
the Trolls are basically invincible. They are a community of Mary Sues
and Gary Stus, who cannot seem to ever be harmed, even if they are
repeatedly attacked. How did Dreamworks expect audiences to be
emotionally invested in the narrative, when the main "characters" are
never in any danger? I cannot recommend this movie, unless you wish to
entertain your children for a short while.
<|_=00=_|>
As parents we expect most movies we take our kids to, to be more for
them and feel lucky if we get a few laughs. Trolls disappoints even
mediocre expectations. It's totally reliant on colors, noises, and the
singing voices of the lead characters. Many movies have adult jokes
which children don't need to hear. This one has them, except they are
not funny. The adults in the theater with me laughed at maybe 1/20
adult jokes. My son in the 7- 10 yr old range did say he really liked
it, but when I asked him why his response was, "I liked how everyone
was happy," and "the trolls." The moral takeaway that was slightly
present was lost in the pop. There are plenty of kids' movies that the
whole family can be entertained and even moved by. Skip this one.
<|_=00=_|>
No really, it did. I couldn't believe how nice this movie made me feel
as I was watching it. The story is a pretty standard hero's journey,
but with the evil trolls or grendels or whatever eating happy trolls to
get happy themselves. It seemed a little dark at first, but everything
works out in the end of course, as this is a kids movie. It shows good
and bad in equal measure, which I believe is how we should educate
kids, not keep them in a bubble. The lessons it teaches are actually
nice, don't give up, persevere, happiness is within. The boy troll
(Timberlake) is so funny, especially in the beginning. Anna Kendrick is
hilarious with snappy dialogue. The songs are a bit old fashioned, the
fact that the writer is nostalgic really stands out. But they fit the
story, rather than being just music breaks, so it's good.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing so many negative "trolls" on here about what people don't
like about this film, I thought I would just throw one glaring fact out
there...it's a movie for kids! And my 2.5 year old loved it! As far as
he is concerned, it currently has infinite replay value. He really
seems to like movies that have a great sound track...which this one
does. The songs are enjoyable covers of easily recognizable pop songs
from several decades, with some modified lyrics. The point is, if a
film entertains your kid many times over, then the writers did
something right. The plot was simple and was about what I expected. If
you really hated this movie, stop being such a Bergen and lighten up!
<|_=00=_|>
This is going to be my first review, I reopened my account just for
this. I must say that I am disgusted by the terrible message this movie
gives off for young insecure and impressionable people. I had a really
nice time with the movie for a while, but only because I could relate
heavily to the slightly pessimistic lone wolf troll called Branch. It
was such a nice breath of fresh air to see a character not being
"perfect" according to society's norms these days. Branch is a loner
who seems to be at his best when enjoying his own company, he is
organized and he has made an effort to stockpile resources for the
future years, while all the other trolls just partied and socialized
until it became their downfall. This movie is an introvert's nightmare.
It quickly becomes clear they wanted to portray that it is not okay for
branch to not want to party and socialize all the time, he is presented
as weird and none of the other trolls really want to interact with
Branch because he is not like them. 

I wanted to be sick, when I realized that Branch had to have a tragic
background story to be the cause of his "terrible and wrong"
personality. People are not all the same. There are optimists and
pessimists, extroverts and introverts, good days and bad days.
Portraying that the only right way to be, is to be outgoing, social,
physical and to party all day long, could easily make kids feel even
more pressure to be perfect according to society. Like there isn't
enough pressure from the rest of the entertainment industry on kids
already. Kids are already bombarded through music lyrics and videos and
through social media. This movie should have celebrated diversity and
realized that there are many ways to be happy and to enjoy life. 

Beside the message that diversity is wrong and that you all must be
mindless indoctrinated dancing candy floss puppets, the movie had an
extremely weak plot. The unhappy Bergen want to eat the trolls in order
to find happiness (very not so subtle metaphor for us that
antidepressants and other addictive substances are bad for you and wont
give you true happiness, as we know, dancing singing and socializing is
the only way for one to achieve that), trolls get snatched and brought
to Bergen town cause of their careless nature. Remaining trolls eat all
of Branch's stockpile of food in his secret bunker and do nothing.
Branch and Poppy go to Bergen town and rescue the kidnapped trolls and
of course implement their propaganda upon the inhabitants, freeing them
from their chains of despair through dancing. Oh, and Branch becomes
like all the other trolls ¬ñ "One of us, one of us, one of us", *creepy
brainwashed stare*

I would recommend The Lion King if you want to learn a thing or two
about life, and Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs if you enjoy movies
containing characters with different personalities (Doc, Grumpy, Happy,
Sleepy, Bashful, Sneezy, and Dopey).

2/10 for the visuals.
<|_=00=_|>
yes, this is a movie for young viewers, but it is fun. silliness and a
simple story. but frankly we don't have enough of them in this movie
era. the colors are great, the animation is fun and frankly as an
adult, i did enjoy it. this movie is pure escape. it is fun to hear the
voices of such esteemed actors playing such fun characters. Sometimes i
think so many reviewers feel they must pan movies as they don't relay
various critical standards.. However, this one isn't one. i like many
types of movies and this is one of them. a purely fun and colorful take
on things. enjoy it for what it is and don't over think it! not all
movies need that. it is great for kids and adults if you look at it as
being simply fun! i am well over 21 and liked it very much!
<|_=00=_|>
I've read some reviews and to be honest some take this movie WAY TOO
FAR and it's not a fair review for what is a really good movie for your
family and/or children to really enjoy. As far as some characters that
people can "relate to" in a kids movie and making a review comparing
them to themselves and their life and how a certain character sends a
wrong message is absurd and a little too much. THIS IS A KIDS MOVIE!!
It doesn't send any bad messages whatsoever. My 5 year old loves it and
I do too really. It's very funny, has good music, characters are unique
and colorful. Only thing negative is the darkness in some of the
Bergens and that they remind me of the movie Boxtrolls which I couldn't
stand. But, they don't ruin the movie at all and I can live with most
of them. Anna Kendrick can really sing and I had no idea she had that
in her and of course Timberlake was great. I highly recommend this
movie! In no way does it deserve anything under a 7/10!
