
For years I have been a huge fan of the Ice Age series and had been
expecting this new movie for months! Needless to say I was counting the
days until the release of the movie and the hilarious teasers were
really making the waiting difficult ... 

I saw it tonight and have to admit that I feel really disappointed ...
Was I expecting too much ? We were a group of young adults who grew up
with the movies, or at least liked them a lot and we felt let down. The
storyline feels a little weak, I thought there would be a lot of
adventure and action, as in the 3 previous ones where you don't see how
time flies ... This one, if not boring, is too simple, not to mention
incredibly predictable. There is no twists and turns. When you think
about the first episode, yes, you realize how poor the scenario is in
this new one. 

I admit there's been a real effort to create an original story that
might bring the characters in another world and make them live another
adventure, different from the previous ones. I think this part is a
total failure. Not to mention the "song" they put in the movie, it was
nothing but ridiculous and irrelevant, especially for a movie series as
famous as Ice Age. I thought it was unnecessary. 

But since I laughed a few times and feel really bad about writing such
a "negative" review, I have to admit that some of the scenes were
absolutely hilarious and the characters have been kept as funny as they
used to be, especially Sid (and his incredible grandmother). It's just
a pity that the funny parts are so negligible ... You smile a lot, you
laugh sometimes, but certainly not during the whole movie.

Maybe I am too old to appreciate this movie as I should have, as I'm
sure the kids will love it and the movie will have a lot of success
this summer. I don't wish it the contrary, I just watched it with my
not-so-kid-anymore-but-very-nostalgic-eyes and went out of the theater
with the feeling that something from before was clearly missing ...
<|_=00=_|>
It still feels like yesterday when i saw the first Ice Age in theaters,
at first i thought it was just a typical kids movie made to entertain
kids only leaving adults bored. But after watching the movie, i laughed
so hard my blood pressure rose and i just fell in love with the series
throughout my childhood! Anytime a new Ice Age was released in
theaters, we had to watch it first before any other movie. No matter
what was in the film i have always givin a 10/10 for the funny moments.

When Ice age 3 came around, i thought it was going to be the best and
the last .. well it was very very good but it wasn't the last. I
thought it was the last film because how Buck chose to stay below :(
and Scrats new girlfriend Scratte stayed below ground too and how the
ending credits was set up.

And now.... here comes Ice Age 4, yay!... not. Anyhoo, i went and saw
ice age 4 today getting excited and all. What a drag it was, If you
remember watching ice age 1-2-3 and loved how the herd was still the
same as they were just the fantastic trio. Well, in number 4, it
doesn't seem like an Ice Age to me because of the too many new
characters and the unnecessary teenage drama with Ethan, Steffie, and
Peaches. It was cool how they added pirates and a girl for Diego (it
was about time for that) but the character development was bad.

Remember Crash and Eddie? they was only shown in four scenes out of the
whole movie. Ellie wasn't in it much either, nor was Shira! I mainly
blame this movie because of the horrible teenage drama, lack of
character development, too many unnecessary new characters, and last
but not least, drama queens the horrible trios (steffie, Ethan, Megan)
being part of the herd instead of the good ones like Buck, Fast Tony,
Scratte, and the baby, the classic ones that deserved to be. Not these
screw ups.

I feel terrible that this is the first time i gave Ice Age a negative
review, but to me, it was the truth. This movie was the worst of the
bunch.

Hopefully Ice Age 5 will be better. I hope they bring back all of our
favorite characters from the past that we've come to love during the
first three adventures, but it seems that the new horrible trios are
going to reappear once again to ruin it.(you know who im talking about)
<|_=00=_|>
Attended a packed preview screening yesterday (the film opens here next
Thursday)with my wife and 6 year old daughter and must say that if you
liked the previous Ice Ages then this one will not disappoint. Kids
loved it and plenty there for the adults to relate to and enjoy as
well. Animation quality(in 2D)was top notch and story line was good and
with plenty of humour and action a plenty. A few of the subplots were
educational as well as exploring the values of friendship,loyalty and
the like which is probably standard fare for these types of films. As a
47 year old bloke I enjoyed it and would not hesitate in recommending
it to anyone but especially for the target audience of young families
you can't go wrong.
<|_=00=_|>
Ice Age: Continental Drift is funny, and i had fun watching it and
looked forward to seeing what this weird herd is up to now.

It is the fourth installment of the Ice Age series and the seventh CG
production of Blue Sky Studios and the first sequel not to be directed
by Carlos Saldanha who will be directing RIO part 2.

What I love must about this flick is the introduction of a partner for
Diego; a white tiger lady is added ladies and gentlemen. The movie also
has the whole fun of the old clichés, which I seem not to be tired of
seeing. It also showcases cool CG effect; I loved the water effect
most.

The plot was educational (as long as you know it is bogus) due to
Scrat's (Squirrel) hunt for acorns he triggers the break-up of the
world continent into the continents as we know them today, which cause
Manny to lose his family.

Manny, Diego, and Sid embark upon another adventure to find his family,
after their continent is set adrift. Using an iceberg as a ship, they
encounter sea creatures and battle pirates as they explore a new world,
and learn why it is good to be part of a family herd, than being part
of a group where one person leads and other follow.

Well, the new directors weren't that bad, as the movie did have some
fun screenplays and events that you will be thrilled to see. As we
watch this creatures move from the Ice Age to the present age the
pictures tell stories that are kinda informative and entertaining.

Hey! I must have missed that geography class when they taught that
Scrat the squirrel created the whole world.

Although this is not the best addition to the Ice Age series it was fun
to watch. And the movie kinda opens doors to new additional sequels.

But I hope Blue Sky won't bother making any more.
<|_=00=_|>
Although not regarded in the same league as the Pixar and Disney
output, the initial three Ice Age instalments collected over $2bn at
the worldwide box office. (Rather surprisingly, that's $100m more than
the Toy Story trilogy earned.) Posting figures as huge as that means we
get treated to another adventure with mammoth Manny (Ray Romano),
sabre-tooth tiger Diego (Denis Leary) and silly sloth Sid (John
Leguizamo); this time with pirates. Like each episode before it, Ice
Age 4 prides itself in offering up goofy laughs and goofier characters,
with the ragtag bunch of pirates  led by Peter Dinklage's droll
Captain Gutt and assisted by Nick Frost's uproarious elephant seal
Flynn  the source of much joy. The old gang don't dissatisfy either:
Sid is the standout as usual but Diego gets more laughs than normal and
Scrat's little journey is ever-amusing. The serious Manny is still,
well, the serious Manny, but you can't win them all. The bucket load of
action remains too, however nothing here tops the dinosaur rumbling in
part three. Continental Drift is gratifying escapism for the whole
family that, despite being the fourth outing for these prehistoric
creatures, shows few signs of letting up.
<|_=00=_|>
Question: How many top entertainers does it take to make an animated
film? Answer: Apparently a whole slew of them. I guess the directors of
this film thought that the more celebrities, the better the film would
be. Not!! But I guess it did make for a pretty decent paycheck.
Compared to other animated films of the summer, this one lacks in
originality and freshness. I think the lessons that were trying to be
conveyed in this film was a little too complicated for the very young
crowd that was in the theater with me. The parts of the film that got
the most laughs were every time the spotlight was put on Scrat (Chris
Wedge). Even in the Ice Age predecessors, he was always the funniest.
Maybe it is time for Scrat to get his own film. The young audience did
not need dialog they just wanted to laugh. The other character that
drew a lot of giggles was Sid (John Leguizamo). Sid along with Granny
(Wanda Sykes) was a comedic match made in heaven. I saw an interview
that Wanda did and initially she wanted to change her voice to sound
older, but the director told her that her voice was perfect for the
part. I think that she got a chuckle out of that. I do want to mention
Peter Dinklage (Captain Gutt). He seems to be getting a lot of
attention since he won a SAG and an Oscar for his portrayal of Tyrion
Lannister in Game of Thrones. I have to say that by the end of the film
I grew a little weary of Captain Gutt. He was really starting to get on
my last nerve. Peaches (Keke Palmer) was a typical teenager that had to
deal with peer pressure, parental rules and misguided decision making.
The hate/love relationship that built between Diego (Denis Leary) and
Shira (Jennifer Lopez) did manage to give the film a little extra
punch, but not much. The film wasn't all bad. There were a few laughs;
however this franchise has been saturated. I definitely think that it
is time to put this one to bed. I think that very young viewers will
appreciate the animation and maybe pre-teens will get the message, but
this film was not designed to do both. All that being said, I am going
to have to give this film a mammoth amber light.
<|_=00=_|>
Fantastic film! As a fan of the series, i was a bit skeptical that they
were taking it too far however, if this film is any indication, the
series is as strong as ever! You feel comfortable returning to the
characters for another adventure and i don't see fans of the series
being disappointed. The film is fast and fun and carries excellent
messages of the importance of family and the importance of being
yourself. A bunch of new characters freshen up the film, with a band of
pirates, including a love interest for Diego and Sid is accompanied by
his grandmother who is humorously oblivious to the dangerous situations
the characters get into. Scrat also gets plenty of time chasing his
elusive acorn, with the footage that was released as part of
advertisements (Scrat's Continental Crack-Up)comprising in the film.
However, there is also a hilarious scene at the end where he finally
reaches the treasure island that the map on the acorn (seen in the
advertisements) leads to. 

A great, fun, family film that boasts crisp and detailed animation that
actually makes great use of 3D. Definitely recommended! 

*The short film that precedes the film, 'The Longest Daycare'- a
Simpsons short, is a pleasant addition to the main film. It is a silent
short that features Maggie Simpson and Baby Gerald, where Maggie tries
to save a butterfly from the daycare from the clutches of the baby. It
is clever and fun and it is great to see more films having original
shorts like Pixar's fantastic ones.
<|_=00=_|>
As with most sequels, the quality of the Ice Age movies is definitely
regressing. I've enjoyed the others in the series (well, actually, I
haven't seen The Meltdown, but I've seen the original and Dawn of the
Dinosaurs) but I found Continental Drift to be disappointing in
comparison. The animation is good as always, but there's too much in
this that's too similar to what we've seen before (and, frankly, Scrat
the sabre-toothed squirrel is getting tired and boring; same sub-plot
every single time.)

In Continental Drift the original content came across to me as silly
and overdone. As the land begins to drift apart (quite suddenly) Manny,
Sid and Diego are trapped on a floating block of ice, desperately
trying to get back to their "herd." Then they spend basically the
entire movie fighting a gang of pirates led by a primate named Captain
Gutt. This battle goes on and on and on. It makes for a movie that's a
little bit (well, a lot) more violent than the other Ice Age movies and
while there are some humorous moments (largely revolving around Sid's
grandma) it didn't seem to me to have the fun of the other movies in
the series that I've seen.

In fairness, my daughter's 8. She says she liked it. I can't disagree
with that, so if the target audience is kids, then this is OK. It's
just that the previous Ice Age movies seemed to have something for
people of all ages to enjoy. This one was lacking that. (4/10)
<|_=00=_|>
OMG what did i saw???, this was a terrible movie, it has the most
stupid idea for an ice age movie ever i mean just think about it for a
second, if i say "hey lets see the new ice age movie" ¿what is the
first thing that you think of?.....well if your answer was not
pirates,teen mammoths, terrible jokes (not that the other ones form
before were good), a pointless story and horrible new characters then
this is not the movie for you, i mean it when i say "STAY AWAY FROM IT"
don't see it if you have children take them to other place or other
movie but please don't see this one, just a little example of how bad
it is imagine the kind of things you do to make a baby laugh mixed with
stupid teen jokes mixed with terrible pirate jokes the result is this
horrible movie i gave it one star just to let you know how much i hated
it and not just me, everyone in the theater was complaining about it
but it deserves less than that
<|_=00=_|>
I loved Ice Age the first one to death when I first watched it. I own
it and every once and awhile I go to my DVD cupboard and pick it up and
watch it. I disliked the sequel, Ice Age: Meltdown. The second sequel i
hated too. They added new characters and I missed the chemistry and the
funny lines that happened between just Sid the sloth, Manny and Diego
the sabre tooth tiger. They added new characters which were sometimes
funny but I missed the same three from the first one. In this third
sequel the team must have realized this by splitting Sid, Manny and
Diego with Sid's funny, odd grandma sloth away from the others on a
race to get back to the herd and to get rid of these pirates. The
pirates are entertaining as ever and very funny, the monkey played by
Peter Dinklage is really good and the main plot flies along at a
terrific pace. The jokes are fresh (most of them) and funny and you
can't help liking this film. The side plots can get a bit cliché but I
ignored them.
