
Charles Ferguson's "Inside Job" is strong, fair, and rational. The
director tries mightily to untangle the complex architecture of the
financial meltdown that has cost millions their jobs, their homes, and
their savings. If you consider skipping it because it sounds boring,
please think again. My blood is still boiling.

Why does this documentary leave us sunk in despair? Because it confirms
the certainty that there is no one left we can trust. The fact that
much of what brought the economy to its knees was legal, not criminal,
signals a financial sector run by ethical nihilists who will pursue
every legal loophole to enrich themselves. Human nature, you say? Then
bring back the stringent regulation that gave the industry forty years
of reasonable corporate success before Reagan era deregulation. The
schoolyard bullies need supervision.

America's bubble of private gain and public loss was pierced by the
collapse of Lehman Bros. and AIG. Banks merged into "too big to fail"
behemoths; safeguards were overturned; regulation of derivatives was
banned; This vacuum quickly filled with money laundering, defrauding of
customers, cooking the books, and stuffing of the pockets of top
officers with money. Larry Summers took 20 million as adviser to a
hedge fund. Lehman's CEO took 485 million, the CEO of the failing AIG
315 million. Fired by Merrill, CEO Stan O'Neal departed with a
severance bonus of 161 million.

When Mortgages were bundled and sold to the bloated investment banks,
lenders no longer cared if they were repaid. Goldman, Lehman, and
Merrill were all players. Summers, Bernanke, and Geithner all stood
against corrective measures and would play pivotal roles in the Obama
administration.

Absent limits on the impulsive risk takers, Wall Street plunged into
personal pleasure. There was never enough: penthouses on Park, private
jets (six for Lehman alone), vacation homes, art collections, drivers,
private elevators, drugs, alcohol, strip bars, and prostitution - one
private supplier within spitting distance of the stock exchange counted
10,000 men among her customers..

Three ratings agencies made fortunes bestowing unwarranted ratings
right up to two days before Lehman failed, later testifying before
congress that these were merely "opinions", not guides for investors.
The crowning disgrace is the corruption of the universities. Business
school professors consult with companies. Glenn Hubbard, dean of
Columbia Business School, takes $250,000 as a board member of Met Life.
Larry Summers, back at Harvard, continues to rake in consulting and
lecture fees.

The presidents of Harvard and Columbia refused comment. You will
appreciate the honesty of Raghuram Rajan who wrote strong warnings and
French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde, who spoke with disgust of
the debacle.

It used to be that respected academics could be counted on to be the
conscience of democracy. Now they are reduced to being interchangeable
components in the conflict of interest chain that links
business/government/university. Credit Charles Ferguson with a superb
investigation and give thanks that we still have a free investigative
press to wake the sleeping citizenry.
<|_=00=_|>
About 30 people at the 7PM show in the Music Box theater in Chicago
last nite, and I was one of them.

I am always looking for two things on this economic disaster: 1) A
better understanding, and 2) a means of explaining it better to others.
This film delivers in both counts.

For me the key sequence came when the graphics, under solid narration,
illustrated how 3rd tier investors were placing bets on bets. I.e.,
that's what derivatives are. I always knew this was happening, but the
film made it very clear. That was the break point (in my analysis of
the problem).

The film was nearly void of political leanings, which made it an
important contribution. The only part that bothered me is that
Congressman Barney Frank was framed as an expert looking back with
wisdom on the ill-conceived passage of the "Commodity Futures
Modernization Act of 2000", and, behold! Barney Frank *voted* for it.
It would be better to interview all 4 Congressmen who voted against it:
Ron Paul, Nick Smith, Gene Taylor and Peter DeFazio. [2 from each
Party! How's that for Bipartism opposition? It took me 10 minutes to
confirm these names, and I'm not even making a movie.] 

It is significant that a continuum of hoodlums are seen on the podium
with a continuum of Prsidents: Regan through Obama. The infestation of
their ilk into the Political World is there for all to see.

Please see this film any way you can, and lock it in!
<|_=00=_|>
Inside Job is an enthralling documentary about how the reckless actions
of Wall Street lead to the near collapse of the financial sector and
subsequently the deepest recession since the 1930s. This is the second
film by director Charles Ferguson, the first being No End in Sight an
equally engaging indictment of the Bush Administration's handling of
the occupation of Iraq. 

Ferguson focuses on the Wall Street culture and the blatant arrogance
of a half dozen men as the main causes of the financial turmoil. Inside
Job begins in Iceland where the deregulation of the financial system in
the 1990s lead to three banks accumulating assets almost ten times the
small country's gross domestic product.

It becomes clear by the midpoint of the film that Iceland is a micro
example of what has become a global problem. Runaway banks have been
accumulating assets through toxic loans and other manoeuvres while
paying themselves lavish bonuses. 

Inside Job is easily one of the most frustrating documentaries ever
made. And that is undoubtedly Ferguson's intention. The film is
critical of Wall Street executives, credit agencies and especially
regulatory agencies for the crisis.

Inside Job includes interviews from IMF head Dominique Strauss-Khan,
congressmen Barney Frank, former New York attorney general Eliot
Spitzer and many others. Ferguson traces the evolution of the banks
from a small, largely local service to an out of control industry. He
does not hold back criticizing every administration since Ronald Reagan
in the 1980s.

Ferguson argues that despite what most people think, there were many
people warning of an impending crisis in global financial markets. Ben
Bernanke, Alan Greenspan and Timothy Geithner ignored various signs of
impending doom. Not to mention former treasury secretary and
incidentally former Goldman Sachs CEO Henry Paulson.

Inside Job makes the argument that the federal regulators are as
responsible for the breakdown of the system as are the executives of
Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns. More frustrating still
is the revolving door between Wall Street and government agencies.

As the banks became more deregulated, the more speculation became a
problem. Derivatives, and credit default swaps, complicated trading
schemes that most people do not understand is what caused the collapse
of Lehman Brothers sending shockwaves through financial centres all
over the world.

Credit agencies like Moody's and Standard and Poor gave firms like Bear
Stearns, Lehman brothers, and Morgan Stanley A grade credit ratings
within weeks before they nearly collapsed. And also having one of their
executives standing up in front of a congressional committee and
telling congressmen that their ratings are just merely 'opinion'.

It becomes clear that this is not a problem that emerged from the
housing boom early in president George W. Bush's second term. Rather
this was a systematic breakdown driven by a neoliberal ideology
supported by Ivey league economic schools across the United States.

Inside Job is simply a story of bankers more interested in collecting
bonuses and making more money than providing what should be an
essential service. What makes it even more frustrating is that many of
the key figures behind the crisis are currently on Barak Obama's staff.
The film leaves us with a bitter pill to swallow.

As Ferguson notes, Wall Street has returned to normal with no federal
prosecutions against any of the guilty. And one of the most poignant
scenes in the film comes from Robert Gnaizda, the former head of the
Greenlining Institute, a consumer lobbyist group who laughingly
dismisses recent legislation to regulate banks with a simple 'Hah'.

Inside Job helps explain many of the complex terms such as derivatives
and insurance backed securities that confuse those not immersed in the
banking community. It is essential viewing for any citizen concerned
about our broken system.
<|_=00=_|>
This film portrayed a horrific set of circumstances in a measured and
brilliantly illustrated manner. The economic issues were explained by
clear, understandable graphs. Many major players appeared on camera to
their detriment. The few that didn't appear were shown through press
clips.

The most awful scene to me was the footage of the tent city with
unemployed, lost and bewildered American workers, their jobs lost
directly because of the antics of the Wall Street monsters. It could
easily happen here in Godzone.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I work. I have worked since I was 16. I worked when going to college. I
worked between college. I worked after college. I worked while raising
a family. I worked, sometimes 3 or 4 jobs at a time. I'm still working.
And after retirement, I don't think I would be able to quit doing
something, even if it meant being a greeter at Wells Fargo. I put in my
overtime. I put in my dues. I will not really have enough money to live
on when I retire, but that is all relative to my lifestyle at that
time. I certainly will not be able to afford the house, but I will have
some foreseeable comforts. I may not have worked as hard as others, but
I have worked dependably and consistently. My conscience is fairly
clean.

I have never been in a position to make vast amounts of money. Most of
my life I have lived from paycheck to paycheck. I am not a financial
planner. I can be an impulsive buyer at times but when I get that
craving I make sure that whatever I get will last me. I'm probably the
perfect Joe Schmoe.

I watched this film. I don't know why. Maybe I was curious about it
winning an Oscar. Maybe I'm just into masochistic tendencies, but I did
watch it all the way through. I sat their like the wedding guests in
the Rhyme of the Ancient Mariner as he spun his story wondering how all
this stuff could have happened over such a long period of time and
realizing how gullible and uninformed I am. When it comes to
Government, I am like an ostrich with its head in the ground: Just let
me do my job, I don't want to worry about you doing yours.

I don't think I am the only one with this sentiment. However, when one
of us Joe Schmoes handed over billions of dollars to the people that
engineered the collapse of so many financial institutions; to realize
this has already happened; to realize there is nothing to be done just
increases resentment.

The documentary was skillfully done. The preface to this movie followed
the decline of Iceland during their deregulation period. Within 5 short
years they went from picture perfect to poverty, the only success
stories probably laughed about over drinks and cigars. The movie then
proceeds to tactfully follow the events from the Regan era deregulation
to the panic of the collapse of insurance, banks and brokerage houses.
It then moves on to the signing of the bailout then to the wake of
their carnage in the world financial structure. The appalling fact of
this is no one went to jail. To the contrary, they all walked off with
billions.

Matt Daemon does an excellent job of narrating the facts in a flat
unsympathetic tone. The directors are quick to point out those
individuals that did not let an interview happen, casting a higher
level of doubt to their credibility. All in all, much was exposed and
even if 30% of it is true, it is disappointing it ever got to this
point.

Unlike Moore, seeing this was a serious piece I appreciated the fact
the production wasn't degraded by any comic relief. There was much to
love and hate about this film. The production of it was crisp, clean
and too the point following a well thought out introduction and ending,
but you sure do end up hating capitalism by the time the ending credits
start to roll.
<|_=00=_|>
It was the last thing I wanted to see as the holiday Season sets off: A
documentary explaining the World wide economic depression. But it was
probably something I should have put before, say, "Burlesque." This is
a serious film that has no particular political axe to grind in terms
of "Republican" vs. "Democrat" since each successive administration
beginning with Ronald Reagan is thrashed for bowing down to Wall Street
rather than protecting American citizens from the most immoral graft
and greed, that I can remember in my 60 years as a U.S. Citizen. While
it's true that "deregulation" is the hue and cry of one particular
political party, what occurs with investment and banking firms is so
entwined with our national representatives, that it does no good
whatsoever to point fingers at one party.

The film opens with the simplest explanation of the impact of
investment banking firms in the tiny country of Iceland. When investors
move in and create a financial "bubble" for the sole purpose of letting
it burst while taking off with enormous profits for themselves, the
opening credits then start and introduce us to the players who would
come to power with Reagan (Volker and Greenspan) and remove
restrictions that had been put in placewe should all remember for good
reason; regulations were set up because people had abused an open
marketwe see the rise and fall of the U.S. economy which became based
on nothing but investment since all our "production" had been poorly
managed and sent abroad, i.e. steel, automobiles, etc. What was left
was goods and services and a tiny, though prosperous, "information
technology." When Reagan gutted regulation and regulatory agencies, a
system of credit developed where finance agencies sold risky loans to
entities, and at the same time "bet" on those loans to fail, setting up
a situation that the more risky the loan, the bigger the profit for
lender. Various "talking heads" and bar graphs come across the screen,
and they're all helpful in explaining what happened. But it's the
deeply amoral points of view that get stated by people who were or are
still in control of the financial banks and markets of this country
that really appall.

And we're left with a sense of outrage and not more than a little sense
of futility because there's nowhere to go for either compensation or
redress. At the end of the film "Fair Game" about another kind of
government takeover, we're given a civic's speech about how the country
belongs to the people and it's up to us to make it work. Here, in
"Inside Job" there's nothing anyone can do. We elected a president who
was sent to prevent the problem from happening again, but instead he
appoints many of the same people who set up the situation and profited
from the first round.

I didn't find the small section of the film describing the "type A"
personality of the players involved who use prostitutes and drugs to be
either relevant or convincing. We see a former call girl allude to many
in the financial world, but so what? There's a small dig at Elliot
Spitzer, but he offers it himself. As well, we're given a psychiatrist
who "can't reveal names" but can say for certain many in the financial
industry are addicted to drugs and prostitutes, but so are many outside
that world. It came across as a cheap shot in a film that brings
forward many significant players (and names many who refused to appear
in the film) and exposes them for what they are. They need no further
tarnishing.

I did see one area that could be addressed as a beginning of reform.
Various economic professors who are brought from institutions of higher
learning to "advise" the government and then return to their teaching
jobs aren'tfor baffling reasonsprohibited from making profit off the
policies they recommend. That needs to be stopped. In most disciplines,
university professors can't use their research and publications for
personal gain. Those in the field of economics need the same kinds of
restrictions. And students should demand it.

We should all demand a lot more than we're getting from our government,
but I guess we hope we're going to be one of the few to reap those
enormous profits (which is a real sucker's bet). It's baffling and
infuriating to watch this film and walk out into the light of day where
the practices on display are still going on.
<|_=00=_|>
Matt Daman narrates this Wall Street/Washington-bashing documentary on
the economic meltdown and why it happened, with excellent fact-based
analysis and easily understood graphics to illustrate same. The case
was well made and indisputable by anyone of even modest intelligence,
even Tea Party members. On second thought, maybe not them.

Even though it didn't get the interview cooperation(duh)of many of the
filthy rich top tier culprits who greatly helped cause the meltdown, it
had enough interviews with second tier players making fools of
themselves to effectively show how incredibly sold out some people can
get when the chance for big dollars shows up, even high ranked
educators and deans in some of our most prestigious colleges who
willingly compromised their own schools' reputations for money. The
film showed that they too are no better than mere puppets of filthy
rich power mongers when shown the color of big money.

The indirect but overriding point made most well in this film is that
filthy rich business people and crooked politicians are turning America
into a society where greedy money power rules over anything and
everyone no matter that terrible society-busting crimes are committed
to do it, and that greedy riches are fast becoming the end-all and
be-all for a growing number of unspeakably dishonest people, and that
these sleazebags are uncaring about any fairness, decency, honesty,
compassion, duty and honor that built this country into what it once
was but no longer is. And, that Washington is a willing partner in all
of it and that American citizens no longer have any legal protection or
relief from their predatory ways that are leading this country into the
abyss.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a good basic primer about the financial crisis of 2008
for those who haven't really been following this story and have little
or no financial knowledge. The official description promises that if
you get angry when you think about the crisis, you're going to get even
angrier after you watch the movie. It delivers on that promise. Several
of the interview scenes also deliver a few good laughs. The movie's
main strength is the way it explores academia's contribution to the
collapse. It exposes the conflict of interest of academics who are
supposed to be independent, expert voices in the field but who derive
the bulk of their very lucrative incomes from paid consulting
engagements on behalf of the financial services industry. This is an
angle I hadn't seen covered before.

It also illustrates how little has changed in the American financial
world, despite Obama's rhetoric. Rather than being held accountable for
their role in the collapse, many of its architects remain in key
positions of power

On the downside, the movie oversimplifies the causes of the crisis. It
focuses primarily on deregulation and Wall Street's incentive structure
and culture of reckless risk-taking and lax morals and ethics. It also
briefly mentions poor risk assessments by credit rating agencies and
predatory lending, without really explaining what it was or getting
into any depth on the matter.

Sub-prime lending was mentioned only in a very cursory manner. There
was no mention of the Clinton Administration's push for sub-prime
lending to expand mortgage loans to low and moderate income people.

There was no mention of the Federal Reserve's contribution to the
housing bubble as a result of it's policy to ease credit conditions in
the early 2000s to soften the impact of the collapse of the dot com
bubble and the 9/11 terrorist attacks.

There was no mention of the shadow banking system; how it contributed
to the crisis and how it greatly amplified the losses.

There was no mention of David X. Li's Gaussian copula formula and how
it was used by credit rating agencies to justify AAA ratings for
collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) that consisted of baskets of
higher risk debt instruments.

I expected more from a full-length feature documentary. I've seen TV
shows that delved into greater depth on this issue. This movie pushes
the right emotional buttons but ultimately, it's light fare for those
on a low-intellect diet.
<|_=00=_|>
Ferguson has used the ambush interview popularized by CBS' 60 Minutes
to grill both the guilty and the extremely guilty in a way that
commercial television will never do for fear of offending its sponsors.
The Keiser Report on Russia Today is the only exception.

The film starts with the collapse of the Icelandic banks, although the
banking crisis began with Public Service Announcements on talk radio
pushing loans for minorities. The banks -- many of them local -- feared
congressional investigation coupled with potential charges of dreaded
racism, so they arranged loan packages that enabled the marginally
qualified to purchase houses. The local banks unloaded the mortgages as
has become the norm in the industry. You can forget about such quaint
notions as the Bailey Building and Loan anymore. This bubble began in
2006, but the Iceland saga was later in 2008.

YouTube has been showing a satire on the subprime crisis by John Bird
and John Fortune that has aired since January 2008 which summarizes
this film in 8 minutes. But, this film gets to the root of the problem
by mercilessly grilling the shysters. Elliot Spitzer got air time, but
even he caught the stinging end of the lash from the producer.
Apparently, the vanity of of the players left most of them unprepared.
The only drawback to Inside Job is the extensive face-time given to the
smarmy George Soros -- the mastermind behind global financial
speculation.
<|_=00=_|>
Inside Job belongs to a genre of new documentaries, like The Cove, Dear
Zachary and Bowling For Columbine, that are not only made to document
the background of a phenomenon but also to encourage people to do
something about it. Dividing itself into five sections of a 'report',
the film looks at the background and effect of the recession and its
effect on politics, the world, society, the economy, public welfare,
education, the present and the near and distant future.

Inside Job is undeniably motivational and does well to extract the
hypocrisies and selfishness of the main perpetrators and other persons
linked with the crisis. Indside Job depicts the global financial from
only one perspective and does not give due weighting to the alternate
point of view. Of course, it does not help that the main protagonists
involved in the entire affair are obviously missing from this
documentary, a fact that is rubbed on to the audience time and again.

On the flip side, economics, being a head scratcher for several budding
commerce students by nature, the spoken narrative of figures and key
personnel could perhaps have been better explained with a clearer use
of graphics. However since the film makers are not lecturers it would
be too much to expect them to be aware of the concepts of pedagogy.

Well crafted and edited, Inside Job is a good introduction to the cause
and effect of the financial crisis, it falls just short of being the
definitive version. It is a good watch nevertheless and provides
sufficient food for thought and plenty of opportunity for future
cocktail party discussion.
