
Richard Gere plays "Paul Shepherdson," a decorated CIA veteran who is
just pulled out of retirement & teamed up with new & upcoming agent,
Ben Geary (Topher Grace) to find the truth about the Russian assassin
"Cassius," who Shepherdson claimed to have killed years before. The
intel says he lives & is now in the US. The movie follows the duo as
the real truth of the matter comes closer, and things are not always as
they seem, not like we haven't heard that line before in countless
intelligence genre films. It just failed to deliver surprise as very
early we are bombarded with hints as to who's who. All the elements
where there, great actors & production but the script wasn't as
brilliant as it could have been. They could have played out an
extraordinary cat & mouse game if things in the script were changed. I
did enjoy watching this and I give a 7/10 generously as I'm a fan of
both Grace & Gere.

Also I would recommend a watch at least on the web, cause the ad
campaign failed so horribly in marketing the film, maybe they could at
least go VOD or STV cause it really deserves more.
<|_=00=_|>
"Plot holes The logic by which Agent Geary "proves" that Shepherdson
(Richard Gere) is Cassius is flawed. The "proof" is that Gere is in
every crime scene photo, thus proving "Cassius comes back to the crime
scene". But as Gere was in fact posing as investigating CIA agent,
supposedly chasing Cassius, it was not only normal, but essential for
him to go to all the crime scenes of Cassius' murders. "

This film is dumb. It has the budget and the actors but it can't make
up for the dumb script. The actors performances were disappointing,
probably because they couldn't bring themselves to believe and immerse
themselves in such a lame plot.
<|_=00=_|>
Boy, how Richard Gere's career has dived since the days of American
Gigolo and Internal Affairs. Yes, occasionally he shows up in a fairly
good movie like Hachiko or Unfaithful, but then the superior
performances are from other actors (Diane Lane, in that particular
case).

This movie really shows the one-dimensional acting Gere does when given
a poorly written script. Why he even bothers is mystifying.

Anyway, the movie is about Paul Sheperdson, a retired CIA agent played
by Richard Gere, that once hunted down and killed 6 assassins of a
group of 7. This was back in the 80s. He never got the last guy, and
suddenly chose to retire.

Now 20 years later, he's asked to help track down the one who got away
by working with a rookie FBI agent. 

**Minor Spoiler alert** Early on, the film dispenses with mystery by
revealing that Gere the retired CIA agent really is the escaped
assassin himself. With that out of the way, the rest of the movie is
about the rookie FBI agent getting closer and closer to finding out who
the assassin is, and about Gere the assassin / CIA agent killing a few
people here and there. **End Spoiler**

Of course, there is another twist towards the end. I won't say, but it
feels contrived. Besides, by the time it comes you've long given up
connecting to the characters, so who cares?

Problems: The major problems with this movie are: the script is poor,
with gaping holes and poorly developed characters. There is absolutely
no chance in hell you will ever care for any of the characters. The
story is dull - you've seen it a thousand times before, and sometimes a
thousand times better. The ex-spy / assassin theme doesn't resonate
with anything on anybody's mind in our world, so nobody cares what
happens in the movie at any point.

Direction: The film contains a few flashbacks to the 80s, where we get
to see Richard Gere play Paul Sheperdson as a young agent. Except they
FORGOT to make him look younger! For sure, Gere the actor looks
incredible for his age (63, he's born in 1949) with his gray, full
hair. But you wouldn't expect the CIA operative he plays to have the
same hair color 20 years ago, would you?

The action sequences are not very exciting. Gere wielding his The
acting is very bad. Topher Grace as the (supposedly brilliant) rookie
FBI Agent is seriously miscast, while Richard Gere needs to ditch the
action genre. Martin Sheen is there, and does an OK job I guess. No
other characters will make any impression on you.

Conclusion: It doesn't suck completely, it just isn't worth your while
and there are more exciting things to do.
<|_=00=_|>
This is, at times, a very confusing movie. It can be forgiven for that
- because clearly it's intended to be. The opening scenes of the movie
(a group of illegal immigrants apparently attempting to cross into the
US from Mexico) are a bit disorienting. They don't seem to fit with
what you expect the movie to be about (I even questioned briefly to
myself whether the video store had accidentally packed the wrong movie
into the case!) Once it gets going, though, it's compelling.

Basically, the story revolves around the search for the person who
assassinated a US Senator, with the prime suspect being a Soviet agent
who everyone believed had been killed years before. So - yes - it was
an interesting way of bringing back a sort of Cold War theme to a movie
made more than 20 years after the collapse of the Soviet Union. There
are two experts on this Russian agent known as Cassius: CIA agent
Shepherdson (Richard Gere) and FBI agent Geary (Topher Grace). They get
put together as a team to try to piece the puzzle together. The first
twist to the story comes about a half hour through the movie, which
leaves you wondering a bit what the point of the movie is, but there's
a later twist that was (to me, at least) unexpected. It's pretty well
done. Gere and Grace worked pretty well together. I haven't really seen
much of Topher Grace since he was the star of "That 70's Show." He's
matured a great deal as an actor.

There are some pretty good action scenes in this, but to its credit the
movie doesn't go overboard on action. It tends to focus mostly on the
relationship between Shepherdson and Geary. It's a pretty decent
effort. (7/10)
<|_=00=_|>
This isn't your thinking man spy movie. Here it relies more on action
and some surprises.And some nice surprises I might add. It has a nice
pace and it will entertain more than enough. But it could have been so
much better. The most essential thing that "The Double" lacks is proper
build up.One of the surprises is revealed much too quickly which for me
spoiled lot of the fun too early on.It is fair to say that I did lose a
little interest.Although I did suspect that the director must have a
good reason to do so if he was that confident. And while there were
reasons (plot wise) I still think this reveal was a bad idea.In my
opinion one should always try to keep the viewer in suspense until it
has served it's purpose. And in this case it only would have benefited
the story more if it did.Especially with the average action scenes and
lack of characterization and drama. One tip though which is something I
have learned to accept. Avoid watching trailers,at least when it comes
to movies that rely on suspense and twists.Long gone are the days that
a trailer is made to tease and draw you to a movie without revealing
anything. I don't know what it is with these people making them. But to
spoil a movie before someone has watched is always a bad idea.Honestly
sometimes you just have to watch a trailer to know exactly what is
going to happen.What would be the point to watch the full movie? So as
I understand one twist is revealed in the trailer.Which I luckily did
not see. Otherwise I might have not even watched this. Overall this is
a decent and entertaining production for which you have to keep
expectations low on all levels in order to enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
A retired CIA operative (Richard Gere) is paired with a young FBI agent
(Topher Grace) to unravel the mystery of a senator's murder, with all
signs pointing to a Soviet assassin.

On top of the great casting of the leads, you also have Martin Sheen
being as dignified as ever and Odette Yustman having a smaller, but
important role. All around, the casting was just spot on.

What is great about this film is that the words "action star" rarely
come up when talking about Grace or Gere, but both have a high level of
anger, energy and violence in this flick. I think it marks a great
expansion in both of their ranges.

I saw a review that said the film should allow us to "think" more. And
yes, one of the key twists is given away far too early in the film. But
I think this exposition is warranted, given the bigger twist that comes
up later on... and ultimately leads to a chilling ending if you think
about what will happen after the credits roll (I am being vague here to
not give anything away). I hear (but do not know) that the first twist
was even revealed in the trailer. Okay, that was a little too early.

Ebert is surprisingly nice to this movie compared to the average
viewer. He says, "Here is a movie constructed from basic parts at the
Used Screenplay Store, with a character plugged in whenever one is
required." But then he goes and gives the film two stars out of four --
not a terrible rating. He also says the writers had a better film when
they wrote "3:10 to Yuma", and that is certainly true.

I want to give this film a second viewing... I did not understand at
first about the Russians in Mexico. And now that I do, I want to see
the scene again... hmmm. Looks like the film hooked me.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Double," is a taut spy-thriller with echoes of the Cold War and
"The Day of the Jackal." It's not easy to speak about the plot without
pooping the film's surprises but let's just say that everything's
different from what it appears and no one is who he seems to be (that's
where the film's title comes from). I've read reviews describing the
film as confusing and too complicated but in my opinion these comments
are ungenerous. "The Double" shows an instantaneous reassessment of
what the viewer has seen. In that sense there's a mind-twisting
satisfaction in the plot. Gere is great as an entertainingly minimal
actor but he's always very convincing. Here he gives weariness to a
character who had seen and done too much. "The Double" is one of those
dark stories where every turn seems to be a turn for the worse. To sum
up it's definitely worth a look.
<|_=00=_|>
I do enjoy a good action film with a CIA plot, however this film was
filled with far too many disappointing performances. Most noticeably
was the irritating musical score which I am sure was intended to keep
us in suspense. Rather than keep me in suspense, I found the music's
constant rise in volume the movies failed attempt to try and keep the
audiences' interest from waning. Unfortunately it didn't work.

I am a big fan of Richard Gere's body of work and again I was very
disappointed in his performance. "Richard, what were you thinking?" 

Now let's talk about the plot. There is a Russian assassin known to the
CIA by the name "Cassius". Two CIA agents the retired Paul Shepherdson
(Richard Gere) who is un-retired by his former boss Tom Highland,
(Martin Sheen), and a rookie CIA agent who has never been in the field
Ben Geary (Topher Grace). Cassius is suspected to be dead, but when a
U.S. senator is murdered the CIA believes the murder was committed by
the phantom Russian assassin Cassius as evidenced by his trademark
murder style of slashing the neck. 

Ben Geary the rookie CIA agent wrote his thesis on Cassius and explains
to his veteran partner Shepherdson that he knows everything there is to
know about Cassius and the murder trademark of the senator's slashed
throat is the work of Cassius, thus the two agents are assigned to find
Cassius and eliminate him. Well.... this sounds like a reasonable plot
to work with and one would think the next 90 minutes of action and
suspense should be interesting. Unfortunately, not.

I watched the movie with Mrs. Shullivan and we both kept looking at
each other and questioning the sequence of events and the plausibility
of a veteran CIA agent as Shepherdson (Gere) being such a terrible shot
with a gun that he cannot shoot to kill a Russian spy who is only 15 to
20 feet in front of him. Also, for a rookie CIA agent Geary (Topher
Grace) who wrote his thesis on the Russian spy Cassius, and is
supposedly a genius on Cassius's Modus Operandi why he couldn't spot
his new partner Shepherdson, in historical pictures of previous murder
scenes in not one, not two, not three. but NUMEROUS murder scenes that
the CIA investigated previously but were unsolved? Please!!!!

It is just one of those movies that you expect the story line and
actors to be a lot more believable, and the musical score not to be the
driver trying to entice a sense of urgency and endangerment. 

This is not a movie with any value and I would compare it to the
feeling you get with buying a knock off product of a name brand
product. You get what you pay for, and I am sure Topher Grace's salary
in his next feature film will be commensurate with his (lack of) box
office draw for The Double. Save your money folks.
<|_=00=_|>
for a lower budget, almost straight to DVD movie i can't really
complain. I avoid a lot of straight to DVD titles, but with richard and
topher on the cover at my local redbox, i thought i would give it a
chance. The movie is actually put together pretty well, and looks like
it could have been released in theaters fully. about 1/4 through the
movie, i couldn't believe they would give the story away, but
surprisingly there are a few twists that i completely did not see
coming. The cast was pretty good, and the acting was not bad at all. I
definitely recommend this movie if you need to kill 90 mins Story - 7.5
Acting -8 look and feel of the movie - 7.5-8 Ending - 7.5-8
<|_=00=_|>
I knew in the first ten minutes that this was a bad movie, bit I tried
hard to make it through the end. I was unsuccessful. 

It tries to be a cool spy flick, but completely fails on nearly every
level. It's just done wrong. The dialog is hackneyed and unrealistic,
as are the situations that the characters are put into. I just couldn't
suspend my disbelief at any point long enough to get into the story.

Topher Grace is terrible in this. He's simply not believable as an FBI
agent, even one that's a snotty know-it-all with a masters degree.
Richard Gere and Martin Sheen tried their best to work with the
material given, but to no avail. 

Shame too, because other than Topher Grace, there's a solid cast and a
half-decent premise. It's completely let down however by sub-par
writing and consistently poor directorial choices.

Not worth watching, even on Netflix. There are plenty of WAY more
interesting films in this genre to waste time with this turkey.
