
I went into the theater expecting to see a cartoon for adults and that
is exactly what I paid for.

Guillermo Del Toro is an extremely talented director, producer and
above all an extraordinary artist. Pan's Labyrinth gave justice to his
talents and "The Strain trilogy" exemplifies his talents as a creator
and innovator of interesting mind-grabbing stories/plots.

However, Pacific Rim was a horrible movie not only because it lacked
substance (a clear plot, climax, resolution), but because it proved to
audiences everywhere that Hollywood no longer requires decent actors
and plot-lines to create a blockbuster movie.

The only intricacies and attention to detail that could be found in
this movie was in the CG design of the so called Jaegers (Robots). Yet,
the movie served to ignore the basic human sense of sight when most of
the movie took place in a dark setting. It was a metaphor of how the
movie itself was a black hole of cash and talent with all the darkness
sucking and robbing people of their investments and experiences.

An episode of Beast Wars that I watched as a young child had more
substance and gave more satisfaction to its audience than this movie.
Pacific Rim is a destruction to the art of cinematography in that its
business model lies in providing the awe-factor, shocking the audience
into believing the movie is great with bling. Expensive jewelry doesn't
make a woman more beautiful, it just proves that she has the money to
afford it, and that is exactly what Pacific Rim accomplished.

The movie is just a failure of epic proportions and the fact that it
rates a 7.9 on IMDb just proves that we, the collective audience, have
just stopped caring. Movies no longer provide us with mind-blowing
catharsis, they are now just a means of blowing off steam.
<|_=00=_|>
"Pacific Rim" is going to be a hit with fanboys all over the planet.
It's the type of movie that they feel obligated to love because of what
it's about and who made it. In this case we have a movie about alien
dinosaurs (Kaijus) fighting giant robots (Jaegers) directed by
Guillermo del Toro (filmmaker who most Comi-Con attendees think can do
no wrong). Sounds like it should work on every level doesn't it? Yeah,
well it doesn't!

Alien monsters named Kaijus come up through a rift in the Pacific Ocean
(Get it, "PACIFIC Rim"). Giant robots steered by military officers are
used to battle these ferocious extraterrestrials. Our military must
join forces with the world's most annoying scientists to find a way to
seal off the portal between our world and the dimension they come from.

Let's start out my review on a positive note. The CGI in "Pacific Rim"
looks great. The aliens and robots blend very well with all their
surroundings.

And that's the only thing I can come up with positive about "Pacific
Rim." As a whole, the movie is absolutely unbearable to sit through. It
escapes me how sequences of robots and aliens fighting each other could
be so uninspiring that I literally dozed off at points.

The design of the Kaijus are completely unoriginal and nothing we
haven't seen before in a dozen other sci-fi movies. The Jaegers are
basically souped-up giant robots that resemble what we've seen in
"Power Rangers" dressed in "Halo" armor. Booooring.

Now we move into character development. The entire middle of the movie
is one big, long, drawn-out attempt at developing characters we will
feel emotionally tied to. I completely understand the writer's
motivation for doing this.

The problem is that every character in "Pacific Rim" is so annoying you
actually want them to die or exit the screen as quickly as possible.
Add to this the fact that not a single one of the actors seem to give a
crap about their stereotypical role in the film and you have a serious
problem. In a nutshell, the acting is absolutely horrid.

"Pacific Rim" is a tired conglomeration of clich√©s we've already seen
in way better movies in the past. There are so many recycled ideas
mashed up in it that you could almost put them down on a call sheet as
bullet points. Character who lost his brother in a past battle and
retired? Check. He's being called back into duty by his old military
leader? Check. Military leader gets a chance to be the hero and
sacrifice himself in one last battle? Check. Military leader gets to
give long rousing inspirational speech just like the one the President
gives in "Independence Day?" Check. They're all here for your
predictable enjoyment.

Let's just call "Pacific Rim" what it really is. It's Guillermo del
Toro's failed attempt at making what he wished was his essential
"Ultraman vs. Godzilla" homage. As I was running out of words to use in
place of "unoriginal," I came across several synonyms that describe
this movie to a tee: dull, unoriginal, corny, heavy-handed, humdrum,
ordinary, phoned in, stale, uncreative, unexciting, unimaginative,
unimpressive, uninspiring, uninteresting, and uninventive.

I'm giving parents a warning in closing. There's no way any child under
the age of 12 will sit through "Pacific Rim." Absolutely nothing
exciting happens for 45 minutes in the middle, at which time they will
get uncontrollably antsy and beg you to leave. This won't bother you
because you'll be ready to run out of the theater screaming by then
anyway.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the worst movie I have seen in a long time. Sure it has crazy
creatures battling it out in the oceans which is just fine with me but
so many elements just let the movie down. It could have been so much
more.

Why did the drivers of the Jaegers need to actually be in the Jaeger at
all? and why are the controls linked to massive mechanical devices,
surely this would be electronic. And the head is fired onto the Jaeger
via some massively complicated lift type procedure? Yet they can
clearly just get out the head when needed?

It took 8 days of tanks and planes to take down a Kaiji but one shot
into the eye from an auzi clearly causes it some distress? ONE SHOT? 

The oceans are about 4 stories deep, which seems to change or the size
of the Jaegers adjusts during the movie.

What's with every bit of steel needing to be rusty except for Ron
Perlman's shoes? and massive bulkhead doors being used for the living
compartments.

The acting, sooooo bad.

Let's send the helicopters to go and pick-up the two survivors, but
lets send 20 helicopters, that makes much more sense, especially since
this is a military program that has been shut down so ready access to
dozens of helicopters becomes easier.

They can build Jaegers with some sort of amazing sword device that
comes out of nowhere but forget to tell the drivers? 

Charlie and the professor, just random cast choices there!

It's set in the future, some things are hi-tech others are retro rusty
junk, it doesn't make any sense.

There's just so much more. How this movie gets a 7.8 is beyond me.
Don't waste you life and avoid at all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
We all carry a great sense of wonder. It seems to hide away as we get
older, but was always strong and persistent when we were children. We
could sit down and really make something out of nothing physical, or
tip our toy-box all over the floor and just go mad. Pacific Rim is
Guillermo Del Toro at his most unleashed. He's been given the toys for
his sandpit and has gone completely bonkers, but he has also created a
sense of wonder from completely nothing.

The plot is simple. Kaiju (monsters) from another dimension break
through to ours and wage war on the planet and us humans must do what
we can to stop them. So we build giant machines called Jaegers. General
audiences are doing the worst thing by comparing this to Transformers
or Battleship simply because of some simple image traits. Well I'm here
to tell you that you're way off and also working comparisons in the
wrong league. Del Toro has crafted an insane amalgamation of Sci-Fi,
old-school thrills, special effects and brilliantly entertaining set
pieces that all meld together in beautiful harmony, with just enough
satisfying human moments and arcs that carry a nice balance of emotion
and camp. It all blends well with the loopiness of it all. Its
Guillermo Del Toro's trademarks turned up to 11, all while going nuts
and having fun with his toys.

There's just so much to love, that not even some minor pacing problems
or a couple of sub-par performances can destroy the experience. Mainly
its in the lesser background characters, but for me I'd say that
Charlie Hunnam doesn't quite shine in the lead. He's certainly more
than commendable, but he just doesn't break out here. Idris Elba steals
the spotlight with a look and a bellowed delivery and its amusing to
watch and Rinko Kikuchi has such an incredible skill with her mannerism
and in her eyes, that's its a shock that she isn't in more films. Ron
Perlman comes and goes and works his usual incredible moments.

Pacific Rim is triumphant above the rest of the blockbuster herd. It
knows what is missing from the norm and just goes crazy with it. Its a
big, giant load of awesome fun. Prepare your jaw muscles, because
you'll be smiling throughout.

(Hint: Stay a couple of minutes into the end credits for an awesome
additional scene)
<|_=00=_|>
Within the opening 15 or so minutes Charlie Hunnam's voice-over
establishes the reality of a future where monsters (the Kaiju)
repeatedly invade earth, to stem this humans have created giant robots
(Jaegers) to combat them in increasingly badass iterations. This
opening does a great job in conveying the scope of a film which is big,
not just regular big, but like, Jason Biggs in 1999 bigg. entering the
cinema from a world where these events rarely occur is initially a lot
to throw at the audience, but it's handled so effectively and without
tongue in cheek that it quickly becomes a world I had a blast
experiencing. Maybe it was the incredible effects shots of robot
related destruction used as a throwaway shots, but what I think really
sold the opening sequence and the film as a whole is the enthusiasm Del
Toro clearly has for the story he's telling.

The cast is essentially a rogues gallery of TV's better dramas playing
variations on roles they've nailed in the past (see: Elba, Hunnam and
Klattenhoff) and some inspired casting of It's Always Sunny's Charlie
Day who, as should be expected provides some effective comedic relief.
Added onto this the score comes courtesy of Ramin Djawadi who's
masterful use of themes on Game of Thrones is carried over to this film
for some great emotional cues and many a rad motif courtesy of Tom
Morello on guitar.

It's appropriate Del Toro has a Frankenstein adaptation lined up as a
follow up project as Pacific Rim can at times can feel stitched
together from all the sources of inspiration the film has. This comes
from many areas such as Japanese manga, the personalities of the actors
from previous films and the imagery of robots destroying buildings
which transformers ran into the ground. But Del Toro succeeds time and
time again at allowing these disparate elements to fit together
believably by way of some very confident filmmaking. I could easily
take issue with the oft hammy dialogue and macho relationships but
where the film succeeds in other areas and revels in creativity trumps
the dissatisfaction one could take from these scenes. I also found
Hunnams character a tad lacking in charisma and internal conflict but
whatever, it's not the end of the world. Oh wait, yes it is hahahaha¬Ö 

The films successes go beyond its imagery and continued invention
within battle scenes as the script is very economical when it comes to
pacing. The films battle scenes are so engaging and exciting due to
clearly established stakes present which left me devoid of the "action
fatigue" transformers loves to throw my way. And although the Kaiju
battles seem to never be in short supply, the film essentially follows
the rule of three when it comes to battle sequences and left me oh so
satisfied.

In conclusion, I give it points for being one of the funner summer
blockbusters in recent memory, for being an original property and for
its sheer tenacity to exist which all amount to what is just a darn
good time at the movies.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are not in a coma or if you are over the age of 8 don't go see
this movie. It is terrible. On the other hand, if you are under the age
of 8 I think you will like it! In short, this is a movie for kids, not
for adults.

So what is wrong with it? Everything.

1. Acting is terrible.

Mostly poor acting. The relationships in the movie are hard to relate
to. The characters are impossible to relate to. Actually, the acting of
the two scientists is so bad it makes the others seem not so bad after
all. 

2. Most details of the plot are terrible.

Giant monsters come through the ocean floor from another dimension and
kill millions of people. That seems like something that could be a fun
science fiction action movie. But, how did they get there? How do they
survive the pressure and heat? How do their skeletons handle the
enormous weight of their bodies when they come out of the water? Well,
apparently they did and they do all of that. Let's just accept it.

How do the smartest men on earth decide to defend against these
monsters? By building giant robots called Jaegers that punch them.
However, the monsters have skin and horns that are tougher than steel
so nothing much happens when they are punched. So when you build your
robot you make sure it's steel has the appropriate strength, right?
Wrong. Let's make them really fragile so the hull can easily be
breached. Yes!!

It turns out (somewhere in the later parts of the movie) that the
monsters can be cut in half with knives and killed with fire. Wouldn't
it then be a good idea to kill something like this with something that
actually works, like an appropriately sized bomb instead? No, let's
punch them with these fragile robots. Yes!!

During the debriefing after a fight, let's use the knowledge we have
gained during the fight to prepare for the next fight. Wrong! Let's not
learn anything. Yes!!

When the monsters are attacked by airplanes and helicopters they fly so
close that the monsters can punch them. Who, with just the tiniest
amount of survival instinct, would fly a plane like that?

Most of the fighting takes place in the ocean. Since the hulls of the
robots are so easily breached let's protect the pilots with at least
some sort of oxygen mask! Wrong! Let's not do that!! Let them instead
drown. Yes!!

Some fighting takes place under water where vision is extremely poor.
So let's equip the robots with state of the art systems to detect
monsters, so pilots aren't surprised by monsters sneaking up on them.
Wrong! Let them use their own eyes. The result is they don't see much
and are constantly surprised by attacks they were unaware of. Yes!!

Since fighting can be tiring for the pilots, shouldn't we try to make
the way they control the robots as effortless as possible? Wrong! Let's
put them in heavy suits of metal and attach them to giant mechanical
constructions. Yes!!

Why are the pilots inside the robots to begin with? Because wireless
data transmission doesn't work in the future, right? Well it turns out
it does work. But let's try and make a system where if the robot is
destroyed the pilots are killed. Yes!!

Robots are controlled partially with the mind by something called
"drifting". One person using all of his brain for drifting would put
too much strain on him. This is just the way the robot "drifting"
system works. Let's not rebuild that system. Let's instead rebuild the
entire robot so that we need two pilots in each. Yes!!

To pilot a robot it seems you need to use "drifting". However, nowhere
in the movie do you see any pilot controlling anything through the
mind. But let's keep it because it is cool. Yes!!

Since we are equipping the robots with a few weapons shouldn't we try
to make the launch mechanism fast? Wrong! Let's make sure there is
enough time for the monsters to rip the weapons from the robot before
it fires. Yes!!

Let's lift these 2000 tonne robots with 8 helicopters. Because 5 tonnes
of lifting force x 8 helicopters = 2000 tonnes of lifting force and
that will work, right? Yes!!

When fighting in a city let's walk over a few hundred cars and through
a few buildings because that is a really funny thing to do and
hopefully there are no people there anyway. Yes!!

Sometimes when they need to talk or reflect on life or whatever the
monsters will wait for them to finish before they attack again. On the
other hand, how else could the actors finish what they have to say?
Yes!!

In the very beginning of the movie, the leaders of the world have
realized how ineffective the robots are. So they instead decide to
build walls to protect cities from the monsters. Because monsters can't
climb, right? And people only live in cities, right? The construction
is based on extensive analysis of the monsters bone and muscle
structure to make sure the walls are strong enough, right? Wrong!

CGI effects in this movie are realistic and cool. The visual effects
are extremely well done. However, since the plot and the story and some
of the acting is so poor it really makes you wonder. If there are all
these talented people doing CGI effects, why were there no other
talented people involved in making this movie?

To summarize. Mankind is portrayed as extremely stupid. Good CGI
effects. Poor directing. Poor acting. Poor story-line. Avoid.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watched Pacific Rim on the first day/time slot of premiere in
3D. Yes, I am a geek. But that is not the whole point. If you had the
excitement of watching anime movies of robots vs monsters in childhood,
this is perfect movie for you. The Kaiju monsters design reminds me of
Godzilla's villain monsters combined with Cloverfield monster,
xenomorph (Aliens), and TRON. As for the Jeager robots, I'll let you to
decide whether they are good or very good. :)

To watch this movie I needed to change my mindset to be like a 10 ten
year old robot geek child, like 29 years ago. Because if not, you will
feel a lot of question marks and disappointment through this movie. The
story is quite predictable. The plot and pace are simple enough for
children to understand. And the nerd and geek professor appearances are
a bit annoying for me. But hey, that what is all about: to celebrate
the childhood memory of robots vs monsters.

Overall, the movie is great for robot vs monsters anime fans. It's not
even close to that horrible Michael Bay's Transformers.
<|_=00=_|>
"Pacific Rim" is a highly explosive, exhilarating, exuberant,
energetic, and exciting hell of a ride. When I saw the trailers, I knew
the action sequences would be massive in scale, but the film just blew
me away because the scale was just incredibly enormous. Every action
sequence in this film was just mind-blowing. 

Unlike "Transformers", this movie has a real sensible plot. Giant
monsters (known as Kaijus) are the extraterrestrial beings that are
currently ravaging Earth. However, they don't come from above the
atmosphere, instead they come from beneath us. A portal in the bottom
of the ocean serves as the method of transport these Kaijus use to
reach us. These Kaijus are arriving one by one, and as they do, they
increase in size. They're so massive in size (I reckon they're bigger
than Godzilla) and the amount of destruction they cause is just
indescribable. 

But the humans don't stand around doing nothing. They build their own
monsters, gigantic robots known as Jaegars, which are controlled
simultaneously by two pilots whose minds are locked by a neural bridge.
This allows them to synchronize their movements. However, despite these
mighty Jaegers, the seemingly bright future for the humans turn dim as
they begin to lose the war against the Kaijus. All of this was clearly
covered in the prologue, quickly but properly. 

Now that seems like a basic plot, but I can tell you that there's
actually more than that and the story is deeper than it looks from the
outside. "Pacific Rim" provides sensible explanations for the
phenomenons that occurred in the film. Now I'm not a genius or a
scientist, but the explanation is logical. 

The characters. Our protagonist is Raleigh Becket. He's had a bad time
after his partner and older brother Yancy died in a battle against a
Kaiju before. But he's recruited by Marshal Stacker Pentecost to pilot
one of the four remaining Jaegers. His new partner is Mako Mori, a
Japanese girl who wants to be a pilot to avenge the death of her
family. Becket's and Mori's Jaeger is the American-made Gypsy Heart. 

The cast behind the characters were great too. Charlie Hunnam was
terrific as Raleigh. Idris Elba gave a commanding performance as
Stacker. Rinko Kikuchi rocked as Mako Mori. The chemistry between
Hunnam and Kikuchi was excellent too. But I have to give special credit
to Ron Perlman (who previously played in del Toro's "Hellboy" films) as
the black marketeer Hannibal Chau who makes a living by dealing with
Kaiju organs. He has style and charisma. I also loved Burn Gorman and
Charlie Day as Dr. Hermann Gottlieb and Dr. Newton Geizler,
respectively. Their chemistry was absolutely perfect and these two were
just amazing. 

The visual effects were undoubtedly incredible. Everything was
mind-blowing and the gigantic scale of the action sequences allows you
to be fully immersed into the scene. And the sets were extremely
magnificent and glorious. I did not feel any sense of boredom when I
was watching this film. Even the drama scenes were enjoyable too. The
scenes where explanations were uncovered were exciting too and the
music is a prominent part of this. 

Guillermo del Toro also did a great job in his directing because I
gradually became supportive of the Jaegers and every time they fought,
I rooted for them to win. I became immersed into the movie. Every time
a Jaeger was in trouble, I was rooting for them to get back up and
fight back again. I wanted them to smash the Kaijus to pieces. 

"Pacific Rim" is just simply awesome. Now, it may not be for everyone,
but if you love action, giant monsters, and giant robots, you'll
definitely love this. Or if you're just trying to have some fun, watch
this. It's got both brains and brawn. 

Rating: 9/10

Final Verdict: "Pacific Rim" is an amazing and explosive ride that is
plenty of fun to watch, accompanied with dazzling visuals and a
coherent plot.
<|_=00=_|>
As far as summer blockbusters go, 'Pacific Rim' has probably the most
unabashedly uncomplicated premise - giant robots versus giant monsters.
How much you enjoy Guillermo del Toro's robot-monster smackdown
ultimately depends on whether you expect the movie to be any more than
that. If you did, then you're probably going to walk away disappointed
at how simplistic this apocalyptic spectacle will turn out to be; but
if you're satisfied simply with watching huge-ass monsters and robots
go up against each other, then you will enjoy every bit of this epic
(and yes we do mean it literally).

Indeed, the draw of del Toro's monster of a movie has always been to
witness the monumental series of battles between massive lizard-like
monsters (referred to in the movie by the Japanese word 'Kaiju' as a
tribute to the science fiction films from the country which featured
such giant beasts, e.g. Godzilla) and 25-story high robots (known as
Jaegers, or 'hunters' in German) operated by humans. And in this
regard, let us assure you that nothing in your expectation will prepare
you for what del Toro has managed to accomplish on screen - not even
comparing it to a 'Godzilla' meets 'Transformers' movie does it any
justice.

Let's start with the basics. First and foremost, the action is shot
cleanly, meaning none of them shaky-cams nor extreme close-ups that
diminish the scale on which it is unfolding. It is also coherent -
thanks to some impressive work from del Toro regular Guillermo Navarro
as cinematographer and John Gilroy and Peter Amundson as editors -
rather than just a mashup of scenes that don't flow well into one
another. We'll add one more before we start gushing - it is also
beautifully choreographed, with just the right mix of medium and wide
shots to place you right into the heart of the action.

If that description above seems too clinical, then how about this -
these setpieces are superb; in fact, they are worthy of every
superlative that you can think of. Working on a gargantuan scale, del
Toro executes the action with magnificence, whether the fleeting shots
of the destruction of the Golden Gate Bridge at the beginning or the
more detailed sequences in the middle and at the end - in particular, a
simply jaw-dropping one begins at sea just off the waters of Hong Kong
and then continues seamlessly inland where both the port and the very
city centre gets decimated by two Jaegers battling two Category 4
Kaijus.

It isn't just about how colossal it gets; it is also the sheer
mesmerising quality of the images, starting from the amazing level of
detail of the Jaegers and the Kaijus. Even though it seems to be
raining a little too conveniently every time one of these battles
happens out at sea, there's no denying just how real and majestic each
of them feels. On the other hand, the cityscapes are arresting in their
neon hues, and the combination of the futuristic look with which del
Toro paints these familiar cities with the bioluminescent appendages
and venom of the Kaijus make for a particularly appealing visual
palette.

Now that we've finished with the savoury bits, it is only fair that we
get to the (ahem) less than wieldy parts, which is in actual fact just
about everything else we have yet to talk about. At first, the science-
fiction mythology sounds rather intriguing - instead of coming from the
skies, the threat to our planet came from a rift deep within the
Pacific Ocean, a portal through which the Kaijus emerged and
necessitated an equally massive response in the form of the Jaegers.
Ditto the functioning of the Jaegers, which given their size, have to
be operated by two pilots who sync up their minds via the neural
handshake, otherwise known as the "drift".

But del Toro and his fellow screenwriter Travis Beacham (who is also
credited with this original story) uses these elements too
mechanically. The rift is no more than an excuse for an underwater
climax where the Jaegers aim to close the portal from which the Kaijus
emerged, a resolution not quite different from that in 'The Avengers'.
More significantly, the melding of minds isn't quite exploited for
enough dramatic possibility, particularly given its significance in
enabling our two lead pilots, Raleigh Becket (Charlie Hunnam) and Mori
(Rinko Kikuchi) to bond so seamlessly with each other.

Equally clunky is the characterisation, which has as much poignancy as
a piece of metal. Raleigh's scarred Jaeger pilot, still reeling at
first from the death of his brother Yancy (Diego Klattenhoff), heals
too quickly for us to make much of an emotional connection. Mori's own
traumatic near-death experience as a child that continues to haunt her
also rings hollow and is equally quickly forgotten. Idris Elba plays
his Jaeger commander Stacker Pentecost in suitably macho fashion, but
is largely one-note and engineered simply to deliver the rallying cries
at suitable intervals - like the oft-heard "Today, we are cancelling
the apocalypse" in the trailers.

No thanks to the plotting and character issues, the pacing of the movie
sags considerably after a prolonged prologue establishing the necessary
backstory of the robots-versus-monsters war and Raleigh's own past. It
only picks up at the halfway mark when the deep-sea monsters finally
clash again with their mechanical counterparts, which will either be
stimulating enough (if you're an adolescent fanboy) to make you wet
your pants or leave you numb. Our opinion? It is del Toro's most
ambitious, most imaginative and probably most groundbreaking movie
ever, but we wish there were more of the warmth and character that have
defined some of his best work.
<|_=00=_|>
Pacific Rim takes inspiration from the elements of any material that
involves giant creatures and robots. It shows a simple concept about
piloted robots, Jaegers, fighting against sea aliens, Kaijus. This idea
alone would already make a fantastic blockbuster. The surprise we get
is it features more than just endless explosions. There are plenty of
innovations to root for which it can almost be a new popular classic.
The only less intriguing parts however are the clich√©s that are too
known in many big sci-fi action movies. Despite of that, it kept the
promise of being gigantically awesome. It's not completely
groundbreaking, but it's still quite an experience.

Aside from the large scale battles, the film amazingly creates an
innovating futuristic alternate universe. It tells the origins of the
Kaijus and how the Jaegers work, shows what society and the media have
become, and throw some satires of the genre. The exploration of the
vision is so absorbing, it feels like you went to it as a trip. But
what somewhat halts this from being larger than life is when it takes
the generic elements of any typical blockbuster, like the hero's
motivations, the main robot is somehow an underdog in one scene,
there's an arrogant team member, sacrifices, and so on. It's hard to
not notice them since they are the central points of the story. The
intriguing stuff about the Jaegers and Kaijus still took over the
experience. At least it embraces its own fantasy tastes without being
"dark" and emo like today's blockbuster trend.

Charlie Hunnam's performance is fitting to a graphic novel based movie,
which is kind of appropriate as his role. In the battle scenes, he
gives genuine human emotions as he punches and fall. Idris Elba
remarkably brings heart to the picture while being awesome at the same
time. Rinko Kikuchi makes her character more than just a partner of
Raleigh. Charlie Day and Burn Gorman delightfully serves more energy to
the story, while Ron Perlman appears in a short screen time but
satisfying enough.

Now the real highlight of the picture, the visuals are overall shiny
and snazzy. The designs of the creatures and robots are palpably
marvelous. As the special effects move these heavy giants, the action
did something better than just blowing up stuff. Although explosions
and loud noises are not actually flaws(It's about giant robots,
c'mon!), but a real good set piece needs a decent and genuine
fortitude. In the midst of the noises, you will always get the sense of
danger to the Jaegers, mostly because there are human pilots beneath
the ravaging machines. It effectively made those sequences electrifying
and the monsters terrifying than you would expect.

Pacific Rim will have its own fans. It feels like a self-indulged
blockbuster that people will end up loving. Besides, this film is said
to be Guillermo del Toro's dream come true coming from his childhood.
And seeing all that, there's plenty of things to explore and to be
intrigued. If only the plot can break some points from the mainstream
storytelling, it would have been less predictable and much
extraordinary. But physically, it is extraordinary. It's both big and
eye candy which is the snazziest merit you will see. Also in the action
scenes where it's more into the thrills than the fireworks, because
it's all about iron fists hitting on monsters' face. Again, the story
may be familiar, but the setting and the action keeps everything looks
fresh and amazing.
