
Win Win is a terrific multigenre sleeper. It's funny, even hilarious;
it has mystery and action; and it features brilliant performances by
the always-reliable Paul Giamatti and Amy Ryan. It's also not a movie
that wallows in treacly messages, and it's not a movie that uses sports
as a crutch for "finding one's inner strength." In short, it's a
wonderful, top-notch movie.

Giamatti plays Mike Flaherty, a small-time lawyer who's running low on
cash. He moonlights as coach of the local high-school team, which is,
to put it bluntly, terrible. In a burst of fiscal sanity, Mike offers
to become legal guardian for Leo, one of his clients (played by the
crusty Burt Young), who's just been declared legally incapacitated.
Why? Because as his guardian, Mike gets $1500 a month. But since he
wants to avoid the extra hassle of actually taking care of Leo, he puts
him in a nice home. Seriously, it's a nice home, with nice people and a
big flat-screen TV.

At this point, the movie wants us on Mike's side  sort of. He needs
the cash, and he doesn't really want to tell his wife Jackie (Ryan)
that they're running low, not with two young daughters to care for as
well. Plus he's coach of a terrible team and is just swimming in
stress. Swimming in it. So much so that while jogging to work off the
stress, he suffers a panic attack.

Just when Mike thinks some of his problems have been solved, teenage
Kyle (Alex Shaffer) walks into his life. Kyle, it turns out, his Leo's
grandson, and they've never met. Kyle's been sent by his mom to visit
Leo. At first, this complicates things  especially when Kyle seems
awfully reluctant to go back home to Ohio  but then Mike's remaining
big problem is solved. It turns out the kid is a gifted wrestler. Who'd
have thought that? He looks scrawny, but in practices Kyle shows he has
the mettle. And thus things are riding well for Mike.

But this would be a truly dull (if inspirational) movie if things
continued to ride well. One thing we learn early on is that Mike
intentionally misled the judge in Leo's case, giving the impression
that he would be actively taking care of Leo. But things really get
going when Kyle's druggie mom (Melanie Lynskey) shows up to bring her
boy back  and to take over as Leo's guardian.

Too often, Giamatti has played real sad-sack characters, guys who just
can't seem to catch a break, guys who suffer at the hands of fickle
fate. Not so here. Mike isn't exactly a conniving mastermind, but he's
not an idiot, either, and he deals with each situation with logic and
reason, even as they spiral further out of his control. It's a
typically masterful Giamatti performance, and for once he's not a total
loser who's in over his head. He's even a half-decent coach who simply
has a lackluster team to work with.

Giamatti's not alone, though. I really got a kick out of Amy Ryan's
performance as his somewhat-exasperated spouse Jackie, who's not
terribly fond of suddenly having a teenage boy around at first. A few
years back, Ryan turned in an Oscar-nominated performance as a native
Bostonian in Gone Baby Gone. Ryan had a thick, believable Boston accent
then. Here, she's playing a New Jersey native, but at no point does she
go overboard with the Jersey Shore dialect. That's what good actresses
can do  they can dial it back when they have to and show a little
nuance.

Win Win is not a stand-up-and-cheer movie, although the audience at the
screening I attended applauded when it was over. It's not a crime
drama, and it doesn't really have a lot of twists to its plot. What
makes it work are all of the truly sincere, dead-on performances: by
Giamatti, Ryan, Shaffer, Lynskey, Bobby Cannavale, and even Jeffrey
Tambor as one of Mike's wrestling assistant coaches. Not a sour note in
the bunch, everyone at the top of his or her game.

This might have fared well, critically, if it were released during
awards season. It sort of reminded me of last year's Greenburg,
starring Ben Stiller, only funnier and sweeter. Win Win is a charming,
quiet movie that reminds us that, as the Grateful Dead once told us,
once in a while you can get shown the light in the strangest of places
if you look at it right.
<|_=00=_|>
Win Win is a charming delightful film about an ordinary family dealing
with the struggles of everyday life. Writer/Director Tom McCarthy
should be commended for his excellent work. Paul Giamatti  a true
everyman actor  delivers a wonderful performance as a lawyer and
wrestling coach struggling with the challenges of family and money in
New Jersey. In the process of taking guardianship for an elderly client
Giamatti's character, Mike Flaherty, becomes enmeshed in the old man's
family when the old man's grandson shows up literally on his front
doorstep. The teenager turns out to be an incredible wrestler, which is
a great asset to Mike's awful wrestling team. And then things begin to
get complicated. Giamatti specializes in bringing forth flawed
characters that are delightfully human. This is a funny, sweet film
that combines comedy and drama. Win Win also reminds us that family
goes well beyond blood relatives; family is the constantly evolving
circle of people that we love and care about. I literally walked out of
theater just feeling much better than when I walked in. That has to be
one of the best ways to judge any film.
<|_=00=_|>
Actor-turned-director Tom McCarthy has put together a fine third
feature in Win Win. All of his films tend to have compact stories that
are small in scope but feature a very focused lens on the lives of
their characters.

One might say that Win Win is perhaps his most conventional dramedy, as
it features a normal suburban family with normal suburban problems.
Paul Giamatti is "Mike Flaherty" an attorney with a small practice
who's also a high school wrestling coach. He's not perfect, but he's
doing the best he can. He and his wife "Jackie" (the always wonderful
Amy Ryan) are busy raising two kids and leading their quiet life. But
when Mike gives into temptation to become the guardian of one his
elderly clients (for the $1,500 a month commission) things get to be a
little more complicated. The client's grandson, a troubled 16-year-old
kid named "Kyle" (Alex Shaffer) comes to stay with his grandfather
while his mother goes through her drug treatment. Since his grandfather
is living in a retirement home, Kyle ends up staying with Mike and
Jackie, who feel compelled to help the kid out.

The film is funny and sweet and paints a really true-to-life portrait
of its characters. No one is purely good or purely bad, they're all
just human. They make mistakes, whether large or small, and they try to
make up for them. In that way, the film will strike a nice honest chord
with most of its audience.

Paul Giamatti is great in this, giving a much lower key performance
than some of his previous works like American Splendor, Sideways, and
even "John Adams." He falls into the suburban dad character very well
and wears the character's skin rather nicely. Amy Ryan is always a joy
to see on-screen, but I was a bit disappointed that her character was a
little one-dimensional, depicting her primarily as a stay at home
housewife and mother. Bobby Cannavale and Jeffrey Tambor are fun to
watch as well, but serve generally to provide comedic relief (which
they do in abundance) and their characters aren't nearly as well
painted as Mike or Kyle.

Alex Shaffer, in his very first role, holds his own among some
heavyweight actors. I thought some of the emotional scenes were a bit
rough for him, but if he decides to continue his acting, more
experience will only help to mature his instincts and abilities. Now,
outside those heavily emotional scenes, Shaffer is great. His sort of
deadpan, monotone delivery works very well for the character.

Kudos go out to Thomas McCarthy's directorial style and talent. He's
put together three solid films, all of them equally enjoyable and
smart. With Win Win, he's proved he can move past the "loner" archetype
of his previous films and move into something more family oriented and
encompassing of more characters (although when I think about it The
Station Agent had that type of familial quality to it in the friends
that Finbar meets). Either way, McCarthy is batting 1.000 in my book
and has yet to have a misstep.

When the film releases on March 18th, I'd highly recommend people go
and check it out. It's a very sweet and very funny film that deserves
the large audience it hopefully will get.
<|_=00=_|>
As in Thomas McCarthy's first film, "The Station Agent", there is an 
air of loneliness to the characters in "Win Win" but also with an 
ability to be kind and with a whole lot of humour permeating 
throughout. Mike (Paul Giamatti) is approaching a mid-life crisis; the 
monotony of daily life and money troubles colliding. But this is a well 
written film and it doesn't look or feel like a mid-life crisis.

Just as we get to know the characters exceedingly well (despite the 
short air time for some - Bobby Cannavale's Terry), a plot is 
introduced. Mike starts acting like a sleazy lawyer just to make some 
easy money, even though he's anything but a sleazy lawyer. Because he's 
a good guy, realities quickly catch up, and he starts taking 
responsibility for a troubled kid. Mostly trying to assuage his guilt 
of wrong-doing, but this kid happens to be a wrestling phenom and Mike 
is a struggling high school wrestling coach. This film could easily 
turn into an underdog sports story, but as I said before, this is a 
well written film and it doesn't look or feel like an underdog sports 
story.

I found "Win Win" to be a great mix of character study, a mid-life 
crisis, and an underdog sports story all rolled into something that 
isn't any of the above. It's a light, funny, enjoyable slice of life 
that could provide a few lessons on morality but stops itself before it 
becomes condescending.


<|_=00=_|>
Paul Giamatti is awesome, simple as that. Such a talented actor, I have
yet to see him in a film that I haven't enjoyed. So of course Win Win
is the next on the list on his impressive resume, the story was
surprisingly quite complex but not difficult to keep track of which is
the work of a great director.

The character of Jack is very reminiscent of Giamatti's character from
Storytelling, a guy somewhat down on his luck who just can't seem to
get ahead or on top of things, of course these films are very different
but the similarities are definitely there.

Amy Ryan impressed me a lot, I've never seen her in anything before but
after seeing this I look forward to catching other films with her, she
has a great presence in screen and her and Giamatti work excellently
together... Also worth mentioning is the always fantastic Jeffrey
Tambor, equally as cool as Giamatti.

The only thing I thought didn't work was Melanie Lynskey, that woman
has one of the sweetest faces and personalities, and seeing her playing
a gold digging, backstabbing selfish mother just didn't work. I still
love her though.

A nice film that is not groundbreaking, but especially entertaining and
pleasant to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Like enduring friendships, "Win Win" grows and deepens as it unfolds.
The characters become more dear, the laughs get louder and the plot
thickens.

Writer, director Thomas McCarthy (who also wrote and directed one of my
all time favorite movies, "The Station Agent") has created a group of
characters as strange and wonderful as real people, but with better
lines. Paul Giamatti and Amy Ryan are perfect. New-comer Alex Shaffer
as a troubled teen wrestler creates a whole new kind of cool. Bobby
Cannavale (also from "The Station Agent) sparkles in every scene.

If you want to see writing, directing and acting at it's best go see
"Win Win." You'll win too.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoy Royal Tenenbaums, Juno, and Little Miss Sunshine because
they're about eccentric, witty people whose foibles are made less than
tragic, their dialogue hypnotizes, and their personas seduce. Then
comes Win Win, not as ingenious or innovative as those films but a
winner in its own right because it embellishes little while it stays
real and lovingly humane.

A little like my family and other interesting neighbors, Win Win has
love to spare. Mike (Paul Giamatti) has a failing law practice,
moonlights as a high school wrestling coach, and now becomes custodian
of elderly Leo Poplar (Burt Young) because Mike needs the $1500 a
month. Soon complication arrives with bleached blond Kyle (Alex
Schaffer), Leo's grandson, who wants to live with Leo.

Mike is thus faced with more complications than he bargained for in the
caretaker role, yet a bit of light shines through as he deals with the
taciturn Kyle, who happens to be an excellent wrestler. Mike's
relationship with his wife, Jackie (Amy Ryan), is rich with respect
between both and patience on her part as she helps Mike through his
ethical challenge and his guidance of Kyle.

Nothing comes easy in this dramedy, as it doesn't for most of us, but
the beauty of this film is that it slowly works out all the kinks of
life in a slowly distributed narrative with triumphs and setbacks that
seem to come naturally. Because the central characters are loving and
largely benign, the film has an easy, unforced quality.

Terry (Bobby Cannavale) is especially likable as Mike's old wrestling
buddy, recently split from his wife, and full of energy to channel as
assistant coach helping with their new wrestling star. Cannavale brings
an easy charm to the film; he's an enjoyable foil for the schlubby,
depressive Giammatti.

Although a few swear words, mostly "f bombs," are dotted in the
dialogue, it is essentially a family where the characters live to love.
<|_=00=_|>
The story-line of Win Win brings difficult and realistic moral issues
before us, which engage our interest and challenge our sympathies. But
the film is not a ponderous work of moral theory, fortunately. Instead,
it has many humorous moments which keep the tone quite light, even as
the film raises some darker problems.

The first dilemma concerns the subterfuge that lawyer Mike Flaherty
(Paul Giametti) employs to win the maintenance award for looking after
his elderly client Leo who suffers from Alzheimers disease. The dilemma
is not so much his (he needs the money too badly and he has a family to
provide for), as ours - should we sympathise or not? Mike is a lawyer,
yet he deceives the court and thus breaks the law. Yet, at the same
time, Leo does not really lose out because the home that Mike puts him
in is very comfortable. In a way, Mike's deceit is a win-win solution
that solves Mike's financial problems and also provides proper care for
Leo. But surely deceit cannot be condoned? Or can it? While we are
still dealing with that issue, an entirely different one looms up and
takes over the story. Leo's grand-son arrives, looking for his
grand-father, Leo, who is now in the care home. Not only does this plot
development add a lot of tension (because Mike's deceit is in danger of
being exposed), it also adds further complications on the moral front.
The first is, should Mike tell Kyle the truth, or is it better to try
and help Kyle personally while leaving him in the dark? Should we
really expect Mike to confess, when the result will be disastrous for
so many people and achieve very little, apart from establishing the
truth about Leo's transfer to the care home? Once again, we are just
beginning to settle one problem when another arrives to add further
complications, this time in the shape of Kyle's mother, Leo's daughter,
who has never shown any interest in her father, but now shows a
mercenary interest in his state of dependency.

I really enjoyed this film. There is a lightness in the telling of the
story, which makes the whole experience a pleasure, but it is a story
with some difficult issues to set before us, issues such as the care of
the elderly and the rights of birth-parents over foster-parents, which
give us food for thought. Above all, however, the film is very well
acted and the characters are brought to life very effectively,
persuading us of the reality of the issues which it raises, but also
coaxing us to temper our judgment of our fellow human beings. The film
reminds us that life is rarely as clear-cut as our stern
guilty-or-innocent judgments would require.
<|_=00=_|>
I could say its a wrestling movie but that would be a very big
oversight on my part and this movie deserves more then that. You
wouldn't call The Fighter just a boxing movie would you. I am no
professional movie reviewer but I tell it like I see it. When I say a
movie is good to me that means it made me feel something and made me
think. This movie did just that ... I laughed and I wouldn't call it a
comedy ... I felt frustrated much like the main character Mike Flaherty
(Paul Giamatti) who is an Attorney by day and by late afternoon he is a
high school wrestling coach who's team is for a lack of a better word
sucks. I didn't cry but I could say that I did get a warm happy feeling
without all the sap. This Attorney, Father, Coach, and Husband (Mike)
who is trying to keep it all together stumbles into another family very
different from his own. An old man who is slowly losing his mind, his
grandson who wrestles more then he talks, and his daughter who believes
she is owed her inheritance. Mike is just trying to do right for his
family and as a man. Life is not always simple and some times we need
to make those hard decisions ... but if you make those decisions from
the right intentions and you might find that in the end it all works
its way out. Good movie that deals with real life situations of
relatable characters. Well written, well directed, and well performed
so over all a Win Win on my list.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not too sure what to make of Win Win. Paul Giamatti is Mike. His
law practice is going down the tubes, and the high school wrestling
team he coaches is rubbish and loses every match it plays. When he gets
involved in Leo (Burt Young)'s affairs - Leo is in the early stages of
Alzheimer's and his daughter is absent with a drug habit - he sees an
opportunity to put Leo in a home (Leo wants to stay in his house) and
pocket the management fee paid by the State. It then turns out that Leo
comes with a teenage grandson who happens to be a phenomenal wrestler.
And then the daughter turns up.

This film doesn't conveniently fit into any category. It is sometimes
amusing, but it's no comedy. There are elements of Karate Kid and Rocky
in the wrestling matches. And, most of all, it is a morality play of
sorts:Leo's actions put him in a difficult place, but he develops as a
person as a result. In that respect I suppose the film is quite
successful, and it benefits from believable performances from all the
principal characters.

Where it falls down is in that there are a number of areas where it
simply isn't believable. While I can understand Mike falling victim to
temptation, surely he would then have gone on to arrange to rent out
Leo's house? The sums didn't really add up here. And I found it
difficult to believe he would have got off so lightly, notwithstanding
the daughter's attitude. And the wrestling grandson was a major
coincidence.

Having said that, I was quite happy to live with these reservations,
and I found the movie quietly pleasing.
