
Alvins And The Chipmunks:Chipwrecked is a terrible movie,the three
Alvin And The Chipmunks movies aren't well received but to be honest I
enjoyed the first two,but this one is absolutely awful,in the first two
they sing a lot but at the right time,in this they just sing whenever
they feel like it,but the thing I hate most about this movie is the god
awful Zoe,played by Jenny Slatewho is just a stupid character,although
I do like The Chipmunks themselves,not so much for the Chipettes.

The Chipmunks,The Chippettes and Dave go on a cruise on there way to
the international movie awards,but The Chipmunks and The Chippetes get
stuck on an island (long story) and Dave separately gets stuck with Ian
Hawke in a pellican suit.
<|_=00=_|>
For as long as the Chipmunks can be milked to draw in the holiday
crowds, the sequels will never stop. After all, the digital templates
are there and done up to be recycled countless of times, and the live
action characters just jolly well need not be there for things to work.
Pop hits between the films serve as the highlights for getting the
munked treatment, and while they do sound cute initially, eventually
this novelty will soon wear off. Director Mike Mitchell, who sounded
the death knell for Shrek with his Shrek Forever After, happened to do
the same for Alvin and the Chipmunks in coming up with something so
uninspired and clearly going through the motion.

The first film as expected is the origin film, followed by the sequel
which is more or less a mirror image of the first, except with the trio
from the opposite sex known as the Chippettes. In the third film, with
everyone - Alvin (voiced by Justin Long), Simon (Matthew Gray Gubler),
Theodore (Jesse McCartney), Brittany (Christina Applegate), Jeanette
(Anna Faris) and Eleanor (Amy Poehler) - all living under the same roof
as Dave (Jason Lee) their surrogate dad/manager, you'd expect that
perhaps things can get a wee bit more cerebral, but alas all we're
getting is a rehash of characterization not already seen in the films,
and done countless of times in their animated series.

Alvin is still being Alvin, Simon needs to chill and Theodore just
needs to be cute. So goes for the Chippettes with vain Brittany,
introverted Jeanette and Eleanor just makes a lot of clothes and
costumes in this one, since they're all stuck in an unnamed island (in
Hawaii on location so it seems). What was to be a family cruise
vacation turned out to be an abandoned island adventure, with Ian
(David Cross) the chipmunks' ex-manager and one time music executive on
board as well as the nasty opposition (too weak to be called a villain
or the antagonist), and Zoe (Jenny Slate), a woman stuck in the island
for close to a decade, and exhibiting the very same signs of loneliness
that Tom Hanks' Chuck Noland did in Cast Away, except that she has more
friends other than Wilson.

Centering around the chipmunks' fight for survival amongst themselves
and with Zoe, as well as Simon and Alvin's temporal transformation in
character - one being French (don't ask) and more carefree while the
other getting all serious and responsible, the story plays out like an
extended cartoon episode, with Dave and Ian on a quest to try and
rescue their cash cows before something untoward get to happen to them,
which in the story, is zilch given a low threat situation, most of the
time. Nothing spectacular gets to happen in the film, and it runs like
on a plateau without any highs or lows, and soon you'll feel you may be
better off looking at caged animals in a zoo.

Which is a bit frustrating because the story's written by both Jonathan
Aibel and Glenn Berger, who were also responsible for what I felt were
some of the more intelligent animated films in recent years with their
Kung Fu Panda and its sequel, having the right elements balanced in
terms of story, characters, comedy, action and entertainment for both
the kids and accompanying adults alike, but this effort seemed to be
written without much heart put into it to cater for the lowest common
denominator, and it shows. Granted they also did stinkers like Monsters
Vs Aliens, but when you set the bar higher, that's where you'll be
benchmarked against, and that's where this proved to be a total
Chip-Wreck.
<|_=00=_|>
You don't change the formula, not when it is one that has worked to
amass a cool US$400mil worldwide per picture. So despite boasting a new
director in the form of 'Sky High' and 'Shrek Forever After's' Mike
Mitchell, this third live-action adaptation of the classic animated TV
series is surprisingly alike to the earlier two instalments. That's
going to be good news for those who loved both the first 'Alvin and the
Chipmunks' as well as the 'Squeakquel'- but for those hoping that this
third outing will finally have the charm that eluded the first two,
we'd like to warn you to be disappointed.

Penned once again by the duo of Johnathan Aibel and Glenn Berger, the
'Chipwrecked' adventure uses yet another paper-thin plot to string
together the hi-jinks of the singing and dancing Chipmunk trio as well
as their female Chipette equivalents. Here, Alvin's mischief while
vacationing on a cruise with their kind beleaguered owner Dave (Jason
Lee) leaves the Chipmunks and the Chipettes stranded on a desert island
with a volcano that's about to blow its top. Oh and did we mention
Alvin's hand-gliding stunt also lands both Dave and their arch-nemesis
from before, Ivan (David Cross), overboard and washed up on the same,
albeit different corner of the, island?

It's no secret how- let alone if- the Chipmunks and Chipettes manage to
make it off the island alive, and not even the addition of a new
character, Zoe (Jenny Slate), whom Aibel and Berger unabashedly models
after Tom Hanks' FedEx employee in Castaway, adds much life to what is
really an awfully predictable plot. Admittedly, none of the Chipmunk
movies have had much story, and to expect better from 'Chipwrecked'
would therefore be a tall order. Like the previous instalments
therefore, this one is simply content to coast on the 'aw-shucks' cute
charms of the chipmunks. 

Indeed, each Chipmunk seems to be calculated to appeal to a certain
demographic- whether the playful leader Alvin, the responsible brainiac
Simon, or the adorably na√Øve Theodore, as well as the corresponding
Chipettes Brittany, Jeanette and Eleanor. Their incessant high-pitched
bantering and bickering that unfolds at a lightning pace is still
clearly the highlight of the show, not forgetting of course their
regular song and dance numbers set to some of the contemporary chart-
topping pop tunes like Lady Gaga's 'Bad Romance', Willow Smith's 'Whip
My Hair' and Destiny Child's 'Survivor'. 

Like we said, it's worked before- like a charm, if we may add- with
family audiences, so expect more of the same this time round. A midway
twist where Simon starts assuming an alter-ego in the form of Frenchman
Simone after getting bitten by a poisonous spider tries to inject some
novelty into the Chipmunks' routine, but the initial appeal of watching
the usually rational Simon turn debonair and somewhat impetuous quickly
wears out its welcome. Faring slightly better is the budding attraction
between Simon and Jeanette, manufactured nonetheless to elicit maximum
geek appeal.

Speaking of geek, those who loved 'My Name is Earl' may be dismayed to
find that Jason Lee plays again the lead human character in the movie-
and while the talented Jason looks like he could easily sleepwalk
through the role, he does succeed in drawing out more than a few laughs
in between his repartee with David Cross. Mitchell however displays
little of the flair he exhibited in the superhero surprise 'Sky High'
and his work here is as nondescript as his earlier in 'Shrek Forever
After'. 

Of course, the fault isn't entirely Mitchell's- after all, the template
for the 'Alvin and the Chipmunks' live-action films have been pretty
much fixed in stone after the resounding success of the first two
movies. This three-quel is made only for those who have enjoyed both
its predecessors, since ultimately it rehashes the same singing and
dancing Chipmunk formula. Nevertheless, it's fast becoming a foolish
consistency, and the likely fourth entry better not just be simply
another Chip off the old block. 

- www.moviexclusive.com
<|_=00=_|>
I sort of enjoyed the previous two movies, they were not great movies
but I found them quite cute. I wish I could say the same for this
latest instalment, but I can't. It does have its moments, Jason Lee and
David Cross are decent and have some entertaining exchanges. The film
apart from some slapdash editing does look reasonable with the
chipmunks looking serviceable and the scenery beautiful.

Best of all is Theodore, he always was adorable and made you want to
cuddle him and here is no exception.

On the other hand, Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked feels rather
lacklustre this time around. The pop songs was a bonus in both of the
previous two movies, here they sound really tired with generic melodies
and forgettable lyrics. The vocals themselves are okay, not too
annoying considering the tone, but again nothing out of the ordinary.
The messages about family ties and responsibilities are important ones
but they seem rather forced here.

The script generally was weak, there was very little that was fresh or
funny for me apart from the exchanges between Cross and Lee, and there
are some lines that have been covered in previous reviews that really
don't belong in a family movie. The story like the previous two is
predictable, except this time around it is not as charming or exciting.

I didn't care for the characters, excepting cute little Theodore. Zoe
the eccentric castaway is more annoying than endearing, and something
about Alvin rubbed me up the wrong way, he came across as too much of a
jerk in some scenes. The acting/voice work is mixed, I liked Cross, Lee
and Jesse McCartney, and Justin Long and Matthew Gray Gubler are
alright I guess even with the bad material, but Jenny Slate didn't
raise a single smile and the rest ranged from adequate to bland.

All in all, not as tortuously bad as some have said, but it wasn't
anything special to me. By all means I understand why some may like it,
but it just wasn't my cup of tea. 4/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
Alvin and the Chipmunks [3]: Chipwrecked (1:27, G) ¬ó other: talking
animals, 3rd string, sequel

Aauuugggghhhh! Ack! Gack! Bork bork bork. Bllegegegghhhh! Ptui ptui
ptui.

My brain, my brain! Make it stop. Make it go away. I'll never be able
to unsee this. Oh, god, the nightmares for years to come.

ALLLVVIIINNNNN! No, no, no, no, no, no. It was never funny. It was
never endearing. It was never cute. It was just awful and horrible and
beaten to death over and over and yet it keeps coming back like a
vampire with 98 stakes in its heart.

I think my ears are bleeding.

My mind is going, Dave. I can feel it. I can feel it.

The horror. The horror.

BONUS: The main excrescence is preceded by a Blue Sky short animated
feature with Scrat, the acorn-crazed squirrel from the Ice Age films.
It was abrupt and pointless and about 100 times more admission-worthy
than the title printed on the ticket.
<|_=00=_|>
After watching the first movie, and loving it, I was hoping that its
sequels would have delivered in the same manner. Having not had the
time to watch N¬∫2, I came across this one and decided to watch it. By
the end of the movie I had smiled and laughed in some parts, but
overall the plot was very uneven. I am not gonna bicker too much since
it is a family movie and the little ones probably laughed and had a lot
of fun. To summarize some of the problems I had with the movie, I
believe that some of the characters were a bit too cartoonish (I
shouldn't be surprised though) and a weak plot guideline that doesn't
leave anything to the imagination. The movie also lacks any real
thrills, which hurts its chances with more mature audiences. I will say
that the performances of Jason Lee and David Cross were what I
expected. Alvin and company are undoubtedly a good way to spend an
afternoon with your family watching movies, but do yourself a favor and
don't watch it alone.

Rating 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Alvin and the Chipmunks" is a franchise that's been getting much
popularity with many kids of passing generations. The film series,
based on the 80's to 90's cartoon, based on the 50's album, tells the
story of the relationship of Dave Sullivan taking care of 3 chipmunks
who become rock stars, and it's been told as it's been. The film series
is something that most people find to be anything, but masterpiece
material.

With the first film, it was a decent film that introduced the new
generation to Alvin, Simon and Theodore, on how they met Dave Suvil,
played by Jason Lee, but didn't do as good as was expected. The film,
however, was far from terrible, so it was something one could watch and
enjoy from time to time. The second film however, didn't do as well as
the first. It felt too much like the first film, with David Cross being
the film's antagonist again, and repeating some of the same jokes. With
the new film, only four words would describe it.

It's not the 'Squekquel'.

The new film does try to work in a new kind of concept and bring
something new into it, but mostly falls flat due to most clich√©s. This
is the only movie where David Cross isn't the villain and it doesn't
involve any of the chipmunks or chipettes in cages. I do give credit
for trying, but it's not enough to say that it's as good as the
original. I'm not saying that it's TERRIBLE or anything, but it's not
good either. Some of the jokes in the beginning along with some scenes
with David Cross are what I seemed to have laughed. The pop-culture
references and songs sung in the film are sort of recognizable, but
some aren't ones that I'm not very fond of.

Another thing that is kind of upsetting is the cast of characters. If
they're going to alter the voices anyway, then they could've just
gotten some new actors to do it anyway. But then again, some people are
desperate for work and will do anything for a paycheck. Would I say
it's bad? Mostly, but it has it's moments sometimes. Would I pay
tickets for this in the theater? Technically, I did, but for others,
I'd wait to rent it.
<|_=00=_|>
What will they think of next... Alvin and The Chipmunks: In Space?
Somehow I wouldn't be surprised... I thought the first movie was really
cute, and the second movie sucked major donkey balls. What about this
one? It wasn't as bad as the second sequel, but it wasn't very good.
The chipmunks are very obnoxious in this one, and lack the innocence
that they had in the first two. It does have a couple of funny moments
near the end, but that's really about it. Jason Lee's role is reduced
significantly here. He wasn't that big of a focus in the second one
either, and that trend continues here. His interactions & chemistry
with the Chipmunks is what made the first movie so enjoyable. It just
fell flat in this one. David Cross returns and his menacing act has
gotten extremely stale. The Chipettes are more tolerable than the
chipmunks in this one believe it or not. Spending 90 minutes with these
guys has gotten to be rather tiresome

Final Thoughts: Better than the second one, but that isn't saying much.
It's a mediocre film. Time to put the kibosh on this series

4/10
<|_=00=_|>
ALVIN AND THE CHIPMUNKS: CHIPWRECKED - Rating: C+ I have been a
chipmunk fan since before the Live Action films came out (I consider
myself generation 2.5 being born in '95 and being a fan of both old and
new). I loved the first two, Squeakuel being my favorite. But, I can't
give this movie as good of a review as the other ones. 

The singing seemed forced and not as free flowing as what it once was.
They just wanted to cram as many songs into it as possible. I didn't
care for the song selection other than "Vacation" and "Born this
way/Ain't no Stoppin' us Now/Firework". And it's constant singing every
5 minutes. If you like the singing part, then this will be up your
alley. But, I found it exhaustive. As for the plot, I get it. But,
there was much to be desired. It's too short, and there's not a lot to
it at all. It also seemed a LOT more serious than the other movies.
It's supposed to be in the "CGI/Live Action Family Comedy" genre, but
there's not a lot of real "funny" parts except a few attempts to throw
in humor from other movies and videos (Even some from youtube)

********SPOILERS******** Alvin is being Alvin again in the beginning.
But that's pretty much it. The plot was quite predictable. There was
too much foreshadowing. If they wanted to improve the story, add some
suspense and then we'll talk. 

After the Chipmunks & Chipettes were stranded, things went for the
worse. The way everyone's personality was changed wasn't the best idea
for the plot, and it really changed the outlook on the movie. Because
of the personality change, things became too obvious. After the cave
was found and the volcano became active, the plot was laid down right
in front of you and you knew instantly that there was going to be a
race against time dealing with the treasure. It became obvious that Zoe
instantly that Zoe was crazy looking for the treasure and that she
would do something stupid to get it. Personally, I found her just to be
another random person that they added just to stretch time.

I understand that the movie was made for a younger crowd, but I still
am a true chipmunk fan. I just can't come to truly love the movie like
the previous ones. My advice, if you didn't care for the previous
movies, don't waste the money. If you are a die hard fan, then it may
be worth renting for a day just to see it (Redbox is only 1.20 after
all) It's not the worst, but it's a far cry from the best.
<|_=00=_|>
For my next movie review, I'm reviewing the movie "Alvin and the
Chipmunks: Chipwrecked," starring Alvin, Simon, and Theodore. I want to
start off by saying that I think people are taking this movie way too
serious! The "imdb" final ratings(as of now) of this movie is 3.4 out
of 10. This movie was not that bad. For one this is a kids movie and
two what are you expecting from this movie? What you should expect from
this movie is Alvin somehow getting all the other chipmunks in trouble
and Dave finding a way to save them. And that pretty much what happens
in this movie. Let's keep in mind that what was once a thirty minute
cartoon is now being turned into a movie.

I tell you what I really like about this movie. I like how they keep
the musical theme in the movie. If you can remember when you were
younger. The chipmunks had musicals throughout the cartoon series. So
its nice that they incorporated that into the movie. Plus, it was nice
that they incorporated songs that people were familiar with so people
could kind of sing a long and enjoy the movie in that way. I like how
the plot simply involves Alvin getting the other chipmunks into trouble
and Dave or Simon has to find a way to get them all out. I'm not sure
if you should expect anything else.

I tell what I wasn't feeling about the movie. I thought they could have
came up with a better theme for the movie as a whole. I felt like
something a little less dramatic, besides them ending up on a deserted
island would have been fine. At times I did feel like the movie was a
little rushed. They could have also dumped the guy with the chicken
suit. I felt like there was no need to have him as an antagonist in
this film. I think being on a deserted island is antagonistic enough.

At any rate, these are hard movie to rate. You kind of don't want to
put it on the same level as certain movies and you also don't want to
down grade it too much. I'm giving this movie a 7 out of 10. If you
have kids and they love Alvin and the Chipmunks, definitely see this
movie. If your grown and you just wondering if you should check it out.
I don't see a problem with that. I'm going to say that you can wait for
Redbox or Netflix's if you low on cash.
