
My 8 & 9 year old kids wanted to see this movie. They've read the
entire series. After seeing the low rating on IMDb, I was expecting
this to be another disappointing kids movie. I have no idea why the
rating is so low, this movie was hilarious. I'm a 34 year old mom and
will say that this movie made me laugh harder than I have in a very
long time. Don't let the low rating keep you from seeing this one! This
movie will make you laugh. This movie will make your kids laugh. It's a
great movie for the whole family. I thought it was better than the
first wimpy kid movie and so did my kids. I am not going to spoil it
for you. See it for yourself, you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
The first Diary of a Wimpy Kid was charming, witty, and kind of funny.
This movie is the same, but has more to offer. We see Rodrick a lot
more, and he's a very interesting character.

The whole movie kind of studies the relationship between Greg and
Rodrick. Rodrick teaches Greg how to be lazy, get other people to do
stuff for him. You know, teen stuff.

The movie is funnier than the first one, the characters are movie more
dimensional then the first. The parents aren't as annoying. It's good.

I mean, I had a feeling I was gonna like this one better, mostly
because I liked the second book better than the first one. I don't know
why, not that much difference.

If you liked the first one, you will most likely love this one. I mean,
even people that hated the first one said this one was better.
<|_=00=_|>
My kids, ages 7 and 4, loved the first Diary of a Wimpy Kid movie, and
couldn't wait to see this one. I really liked it too, so I was actually
looking forward to this new one. I was not disappointed, and neither
were my kids! It had us all laughing! As much as we liked the first
one, we liked this one even more! I'm even already looking forward to
seeing it again! I'm not sure why people are so hard on this movie, as
it is a kids' movie...I'm not sure what they are looking for. I wasn't
expecting anything huge from it, just to be entertained, which I was,
and both of my kids loved it! If you are expecting an Oscar performance
with a deep story line, this isn't a movie for you. However, if you
want to take your kids to a funny movie that as an adult you can enjoy
as well, I highly recommend this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Most adults do not have a high expectation for family movies like this,
isn't it? After all, they are not those movies that contend for this
award or that recognition. Then again, isn't it fun to have some great
family fun once in a while at a movie like this?

The "Diary of a Wimpy Kid" series is quite a big hit here in Singapore.
Following the release of the first movie in this series last year, it
received some criticisms on the pace and the low sense of humour but
still managed to pull off a profitable $500,000 at the local ticket box
office. This is indicative of its positive reception, probably owing to
the vast number of readers of the illustrated novel series of the same
name. As a result, Singaporeans are privileged to have "Diary of a
Wimpy Kid Rodrick Rules" released a week ahead of its official
theatrical release in view of March school holidays. 

Typically, the young readers can relate to the obligatory activities
and school life of Greg and friends. There must be someone in school
that somewhat resembles Fregley, the queer one that often disgusts
everyone. And also the puny but talkative person that cannot wait to
show off what he had accomplished with his wits, just like Chirag
Gupta. What about the most beautiful girl in class that everyone just
can't wait to get close to? Lastly, let's not forget the die-hard BFF
who does everything with you and even go through a distasteful
sleepover. Even the older ones in the cinema could somewhat recall
classmates who are fitting into these characters. With the talented
child actors, they make these characters come to life and really
lovable. There is great chemistry which makes it a joy to watch the
development of the story.

This time, the movie has a pretty tight storyline and gave the
audiences some really great laugh! The content is largely humorous,
whether it's the quirky behaviours of the kids, the older brother
Rodrick or even the Heffley parents. Comparing it to other movies in
the same league, this movie stands out with better humour. One of the
potential pitfalls of a family movie is having jokes that are too hard
for children understand. In this case, they manage to dodge away from
the potential pitfall as the jokes are pretty relatable to the
children. Even the adults cannot help but to laugh at the goofiness.
Enjoy some simple and good humour! One of the important factors that
helped to increase the entertainment value was the 2-D sketches. They
were incorporated seamlessly into the storyline and are both intriguing
and eye-catching.

As suggested by the title, this movie is more focused on the brothers'
relationship, a further development from the first movie of the series.
Rodrick was more than an annoyance; he showed the "older brother" side
more this time. Be it manipulating his little brother to achieve his
motives, or embarrassing his little brother for his own pleasure, or
even to passing on his little brother the "good" stuffsÂ… aren't these
again, pretty relatable to everyone? Exactly, we're back to it again:
relevancy of the movie is indeed the biggest selling point of the
movie.

As the movie winds up, it continues to stir our interest and leads us
to a less sighted side of the brothers which is dear and heart-warming
to watch. Upon watching, you'll probably nod to yourself and say
'indeed, blood is thicker than water'. Despite the older brother not
wanting to befriend his little brother initially, at the end of the day
he is still always there for him and vice versa. With more diaries to
come, this series will definitely gain greater popularity among the
young readers.

- www.moviexclusive.com
<|_=00=_|>
Same song - second verse... Of course that doesn't mean it is bad. Some
songs have a better second verse. I liked this movie. I find it hard
not to like the family in this movie. I'm a school teacher and this
book series is extremely popular with 8-12 year olds. I watched the
first movie and found it to be better than I would have expected. This
movie didn't give me the same feeling. Maybe the surprise was over or
maybe it wasn't as good a storyline, but I like the first movie better.
I noticed my kids didn't laugh as much during this movie and they both
said they liked the first one better, but they were glad they saw
Rodick Rules, of course they are both fans of the book series. If you
have kids that are into this series then you need to take them to see
the movie. I'm sure they will thank you for it.
<|_=00=_|>
About a year ago I was tickled pink with Diary of a Wimpy Kid, a film
adapted from the first book of a successful series by Jeff Kinney. I
suppose it did decent business worldwide to warrant a follow up film,
adapting from the second book in the series called Rodrick Rules, where
the premise is focused more on within the Heffley family, in particular
between Greg (Zachary Gordon), now in seventh grade, and his older
brother Rodrick (Devon Bostick), while yet still holding onto its
quirky comedy and shenanigans set in school.

David Bowers, who did Flushed Away and Astro Boy, takes over from Thor
Freudenthal to direct this installment of the wimpy kid, though still
retaining some signature elements such as the animation design which
come directly from the books. We're reintroduced to the Heffley family,
and it's pretty amazing how the sheer amount of incidents and subplots
start to take their own life, providing slices of life moments from
puppy love to sibling rivalry. There's Greg's infatuation with new
student Holly Hills (Peyton List) with whom he tries too hard to get
acquainted with, his friendship with best friend Rowley (Rober Capron)
taking a hit because he refuses to be Rowley's sidekick for a magic
show in the town's talent contest, and the continuing bullying of
Rodrick on Greg, one which culminated in the latter running around in
his underwear at an old folks home. 

Those are but three of the many comical situations found in this
installment, coupled with a house party that cannot be mentioned, but
of course there's no smoke without fire, and what worked here is that
most times things get set up for the fall only much later, coming in as
sucker punches complete with rip tickling delivery. There's no wasted
scene in the film, and everything sprawls out and collapses back
nicely, in part I guess having a source material laying out a roadmap
for the narrative to follow, with nice little easter egg touches that
connects this film to its predecessor, such as the remnants of the
Cheese Touch.

Don't expect very sophisticated direction here, as it may look and feel
like an extended sitcom episode. But in all honesty the little tales
that make up this film are nothing to scoff at, made all the more fun
by the myriad of side characters / caricatures. There are still three
more books to go, and I'm unsure if they will be turned into movies,
though if they do, it better be fast before the child actors all grow
up. Definitely recommended, and for its targeted demographics, I'm sure
this will speak volumes to them, especially on its message of blood
being thicker than water, and how siblings, no matter the rivalry, will
always be subject to a quick patch up.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of these cases when the movie is better than the book. In
my opinion, the book language is slightly shallow, but translated into
a movie, the episodes that make the story look very lively and full of
humor.

The decision to concentrate on the relationship between the brothers
was original and smart, because it added an element of conflict that
the book lacked and spiced it up a bit.

Unlike the book, the movie is worth watching for adults as well. It's
not too sophisticated, but it doesn't have to be - it's light, humorous
and fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't see the first movie and only knew of the Diary of a Wimpy Kid
because my 7 year old daughter was reading the books. I was a bit
apprehensive about the film and thought the best thing that would
happen was that I might fall asleep during it. 

I was relieved at the beginning to see it was live action rather than
animation (yes - I had THAT little knowledge of what I was going to
see!) Though there was a bad point at the very beginning where the car
draws up with cartoon people inside. For a moment I feared it might be
a cartoon/live action combo - but this was a temporary feature that was
meant to bind the live characters to the cartoon ones in the book.

The first scenes in the roller skate arena made me wonder if it would
just be about kids being horrible to each other. However, as the story
developed I was quite captivated - the performances were all good, the
story-line well paced, and various parts of the film made me laugh -
and I rarely laugh at movies. I am wondering why the mother is pure
Sarah Palin - this I will have to Google later. The film was an
unexpected treat. It made a rainy day in Scotland a lot better.
<|_=00=_|>
"You'll always be my brother, but you'll never be my friend." After the
fighting between the two brothers gets out of control Greg (Gordon) and
Rodrick (Bostick) are forced to spend the weekend together, just the
two of them. After becoming friends again one incident rips them apart
and the family worries it may never be fixed. After reading the first
book and watching the first movie, both of which I liked, I had higher
expectations for this one. My son loves these books and movies so it's
a lot of fun to watch him laugh at the movie, almost more fun then the
actual movie is. Being that this is a kids movie I will make this one
short. Overall I thought the first one was better, but my kids liked
this one a lot more. I give it a B, my kids give it an A+ Would I watch
again? - I saw it in theaters, then watched it again on DVD. My kids
have seen it like 5 times already.

*Also try - Diary Of A Wimpy Kid & The Spiderwick Chronicles
<|_=00=_|>
Before you read further, I wanna ask few things Â–

Â• Do you have a elder brother? If yes, move on, else go to the end. Â•
Did you have fights with him all throughout your childhood?

Seriously, this movie reminded me of every moment of my childhood days
- how my bro used to tease meÂ… & how I used to fight back in revengeÂ…
How he didn't allow me in his group of friends Our parent always wanted
that we both try to get pleasant with each-other Â… But seriously it was
fun the way it was Â… playing prank on each-other, passing wrong
information to him - so that gets screwed, keeping secrets on costs..
And yes, we sometimes used to be friendly.

Seriously, even if watch it as a plain comedy movie Â– Trust me Â– it's
worth it.. 

I may have over-rated this one, but I had no reasons to underrate it

Cheers!
