
As a long-time fan of the original series who has watched rights
disputes, and cast and director changes over the years, I viewed the
pre-release publicity with high hopes and low expectations. But in the
end, the film itself was a wonderful surprise! Witty, light-hearted
without being a spoof and dramatic without being heavy-handed. The two
main characters were updated from what was allowable in 60s television
to satisfying and engaging modern versions of their original
incarnations, and the attendant allies and villains were all one could
want. The film was very much what the series could have been were it
being done now, in the era of Game of Thrones and Mad Men. I've been
twice and will be going again, as well as buying the DVD. Open Channel
D; this film is more than I dared hope for!
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw better than expected, I knew it would be good. But it was
better than good, it was great.

Very witty, sexy movie. Take the humour of Sherlock (with Robert Downey
Jr. & Jude law) and stick it in a bond movie- then you have The man
from U.N.C.L.E. - I like bond movies, but I LOVED the man from uncle.
It doesn't get boring, or drop at any point. 

If you've read anything negative from critics Don't listen to what
critics have to say, they don't like any kind of movie if it's not
based on a true story. 

It's certainly worth the price of admission, you'll be glad you saw it.
I'm honestly hoping a second will be made.
<|_=00=_|>
Towards the end of the movie, Henry Cavill's Napoleon Solo asks, "How's
THAT for entertainment?" (when teaching the movie's villain a lesson
about monologuing), and my answer regarding this movie would have to
echo Waverly's "very good", as this film manages to out-Bond the last
two actual Bond films. While it might be the unpopular opinion, I in
fact enjoyed Guy Ritchie's two Sherlock Holmes films and so decided to
give this a chance, knowing nothing about the original TV series this
movie was based on and going in with no preconceived notions. One thing
that sets it apart from other recent spy thrillers is it staying set in
the 60s time period and not being "modernised". From the opening "spy
jazz" music, it sets the tone for what will be a fun ride. Ritchie's
unique directing style fits perfectly with this slick/stylish film and
he proves once again to have the right touch when it comes to blending
humor with serious moments (one example being in the most morbidly
amusing torture sequence I've seen since Bond's in Casino Royale).
Whilst there are "talky" moments and occasions where the camera lingers
on a shot for a solid moment, which those with impatience may grow
restless during, there's also action (but not such that it's overkill)
mixed with humour, some emotional beats and even the odd sexy moment.
It all combines extremely well.

Interestingly, as has been noted elsewhere, the main cast aren't using
their own accents for their roles, with Brit Henry Cavill playing the
American Napoleon Solo, American Armie Hammer playing Russian Illya
Kuryakin and Swede Alicia Vikander as German Gaby Teller. Cavill, who I
found dull/a bore in Man of Steel (then again, I felt that way about
the film as a whole save for Antje Traue's Faora), is far better
utilised as the suave/cool Solo here (which now brings the tally of
cool movie characters by the name of 'Solo' to TWO - the other
being...hmm, let's think...). He oozes charm, confidence, elegance -
all those words that make up the definition of 'suave' - and has some
great reactions. One scene I particularly liked was him just chilling,
with a sandwich and bottle of vino in a truck he commandeered, as his
newly assigned partner was attempting to escape some baddies in a boat.
Just when you think Solo's almost heartless, he shows he's become quite
attached to the Russian with anger management issues and does something
nice for him (when they're not exchanging spy bugs or ramming each
other through toilet stalls Casino Royale-style). As expected, they
spend the majority of the film begrudgingly working alongside each
other, bantering/arguing and showing each other up. Illya might be
almost superhuman in strength and have the fancy fence-cutting tools,
but Solo has the expertise breaking into vaults undetected...almost.
Armie Hammer's better served here partnered with Cavill than he was
with Depp in The Lone Ranger. The two play well off each other and have
a nice fun dynamic. It also must be noted (since everyone's pointed it
out regarding Tom Cruise in M:I 5) that while this film has a lot of
stunts, both Cavill and Hammer took part in them, with the latter
apparently giving his stunt double "hardly a chance to do anything
because he's out there doing it all by himself". 

2015 seems the year of the Awesome Swedes, as Alicia Vikander joins M:I
5's Rebecca Ferguson in making quite the memorable impression on
screen. Apart from some rough-and-tumble with Illya, Vikander's Gaby
sadly doesn't get to kick as much butt as the aforementioned Ferguson,
but still proves hard to look away from when she's on screen (partly
because she's dressed in eye-catching 60s fashion - which, along with
the film's score/use of songs, goes a long way to creating the right
'mood' for the film - but also because she's awesome in other ways).
Her character, a mechanic at the start of the film, soon finds herself
in the thick of the action during a great chase scene featuring her at
the wheel, with Solo in the back seat and the then unknown to them
Illya in hot pursuit (a fantastic sequence, with the directing, music,
acting all flowing together seamlessly...and manual window winders used
for great comedic effect). Vikander has interesting/fun dynamics with
Cavill and Hammer, showing some different sides to her character (one
instance being in an amusing dance sequence) whilst also proving
smart/helpful and that there's a bit more to her than you might first
expect. This trio of characters are a large part of what makes the film
as good as it is. Elizabeth Debicki plays the icy cold Victoria to the
best of her ability, although there's not that much going on with her
that one wouldn't already suspect. Hugh Grant and Jared Harris are both
good in their small parts. Playing Gaby's Uncle Rudi, Sylvester Groth
is quite memorable in his role.

While in his Sherlock Holmes movies Ritchie showed us in slow detail
what Sherlock was going to do to his opponents (so we could actually
*see* it/make sense of it before everything sped back up and he moved
in a blur), it's sort of the opposite here, where we flashback to
things we might've missed, little details and such, that are later
filled in for us and thus make sense. The use of split screen is also
something he seems quite fond of, walking the line between being used
effectively and overuse. It proves an extra flourish to an already very
stylised film. I enjoyed this origin film of sorts for the team made up
of our three main characters - who hopefully we'll get to see more of
in a sequel, as this ended up being a pleasantly surprising addition to
the spy film genre. For extra background info about the characters, as
well as to learn what the acronym U.N.C.L.E. stands for, make sure to
watch the stylish end credits.
<|_=00=_|>
Remembering the TV show, just barely, I remember I liked Illya a little
better than Napoleon. That hasn't changed in this far better version.
This movie is a joy and I either smiled or laughed through the whole
thing. There is no way they're not making a sequel.

Guy Ritchie's direction is assured and far more clever and entertaining
than his current rivals. And his eye for casting, assuming it was his
doing, is impeccable. I particularly appreciated Alicia Vikander who
was dreamy enough in Ex Machina. Here she does a little dance in one
scene that went indelibly into my do not erase memory.

Cavill and Hammer make an unexpectedly good team. And though I was a
little partial to Hammer's performance, Cavill has a flair for comedy
that I haven't known about. Oddly enough, Hugh Grant who appears
briefly, is a proved asset but seems a little out of place.

All in all though this is a fun movie and not to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw the previews for Guy Ritche's latest film, "The Man
from UNCLE"  a remake of the series of the same name  I decided to
approach it fresh. So I avoided watching any of the adventures of
Robert Vaughn's Napoleon Solo and David McCallum's Ilya Kuryakin.

I mean, to do otherwise just would not be fair, since my exposure to
the original is limited to pop culture references. Why catch up to a
show from decades ago only to rip apart the new one? Why give myself
false nostalgia? 

That said, I cannot tell you whether this is a faithful recreation of
the original, a tasteful homage, or perhaps a complete bastardization.

However, I can say that, as a Guy Ritchie action-comedy, it works. The
jabs at fictional representations of espionage are delivered with near
perfect timing. Even the languishing takes meant to ridicule the
tropes, stereotypes and clichés we have all come to see in every action
spy thriller do not feel drawn out. All of Ritchie's trademarks are
also there, from the diagetic sound that shifts to almost non-diagetic
levels as the on screen action becomes a musical montage  a music
video if you will  right down to the ubiquitous tongue in cheek,
deadpan humour.

While I am sure the more eagle-eyed of viewers could play a game of
"spot the anachronism" (that tube frame 4x4 in the previews, for
instance), I would actually fault this movie as being too period. They
seem to have cherry picked all the things people imagine as from the
era. The result is that the clothes are just too chic, the set pieces
too on the nose.

Then again, I guess that is the point: You are meant to fall in love
with the aesthetics of that period as interpreted by Oliver Scholl's
production design, and as captured by John Mathieson's cinematography.
The fashion, the accessories... even the cars. Especially the cars! How
could any depiction of the glamour of the sixties be complete without
one Jaguar E Type? Also, watch out for the cameo of a $38 million
Ferrari. 

Even with the attention to detail "Mad Men" put into shattering any
preconceived notions of the so-called swinging sixties, as well as
CNN's "The Sixties" television documentary series' unflinching look at
the social turmoil of those times, somehow I still wish I could have
lived back then.

Or at least escape into the movie universe they have created.

Because in our world where terrorist groups are committing heinous acts
of barbarity that would put any of UNCLE's supervillain enemies to
shame, where spy thrillers like "Homeland" had to up the ante because
reality is scarier than the fictional world they have created, where
the James Bond 007 franchise lost its playfulness long ago and just
keeps getting grittier and grittier, and where Donald Trump is the most
popular US republican presidential aspirant, the Cold War and its
Mutually Assured Destruction definitely seem worth pining for. I mean
what is the mere threat of a few megatons of thermonuclear annihilation
compared to the Donald? 

The movie is cast satisfyingly well enough, with Armie Hammer's Ilya
Kuryakin projecting a cold lethality that may have been a bit much.
Luckily, this is a bickering buddy movie, where Henry Cavill's Napoleon
Solo balances things out with borderline insufferable calm smoothness.
For something with a bunch of Brits speaking in American accents, I am
a bit surprised they toned down Gaby Teller's accent whenever the
character speaks English  I'm sure the Swedish Alicia Vikander could
lay an affectation of an East Berliner real thick.

In all, "The Man from UNCLE" is an enjoyable comedy and an escapist
fare which just happens to be seemingly set in our past. I even rank it
as a solid tale of espionage, with the end reminding me of Roger Moore
as Bond, yelling to General Gogol, "That's détente comrade. I don't
have it. You don't have it."
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw a sneak preview of this movie and I have to say I thoroughly
enjoyed it. I will have to preface this review by saying that I have
not seen the original show, so I can't say whether this paid
appropriate homage to the original, or if it is a bastardization.

The opening sequence chase scene featured heavily in the previews, but
surprisingly the trailer did not ruin the scene. It actually came
across even more crisp and clever in the theater and was a great
beginning for the movie. It perfectly sets the tone of the two spy
characters and establishes their respectful rivalry.

The movie isn't wall-to-wall action, but there are enough action scenes
to keep the pace lively. There is also a second chase scene towards the
end of the movie that is perhaps even better than the opening scene's
chase.

I think the real strength of the movie is the comedic element. The
banter is quite snappy and a few of the lines I couldn't hear because
of the laughter filling the theater. In particular Henry Cavill
delivered as the slick cool spy Solo.

Armie Hammer also delivered as the Russian counterpart, Illya. In many
ways he plays the straight man to Cavill's comedian, which is actually
the harder part to play. It was also apparently the harder part to
direct and/or film since a few of his scenes came across as a bit
clichéd.

The third part of the group is Gaby, played by Alicia Vikander. The
part she played is the most uneven of the group. To an extent it seemed
like they couldn't quite figure out her role, so she ended up being a
bit of a third wheel. That being said, she didn't detract from the
movie, and serves as another foil for the two main characters.

As long as I'm mentioning actors/actresses, I have to say that Hugh
Grant did a superb job in a relatively minor role. Also Elizabeth
Debicki did an excellent job as the female villain.

Since this is a period piece, I think it's important to point out that
they went through a lot of effort to get things right. Fortunately for
me, they did such a good job that it, that it didn't feel like I was
being beaten over the head with the 60's. There were a number of iconic
outfits, but overall it was subtle enough that I wasn't jarred out of
the movie, which says a lot about the great job they did.

Overall, I thoroughly enjoyed the movie, and would recommend it for
anyone who enjoys spy movies, or action/comedies. Also, if you've seen
the trailer and thought it showed promise, then you should definitely
see the movie, because the trailer doesn't show all (or even most) of
the good parts, but gives a good sampling.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a fan of the original TV show and also a fan of Henry Cavill and
Guy Ritchie. I have been looking forward to this movie for quite some
time and am pleased to report that it was as good as I had hoped it
would be.

I prefer being entertained at the cinema rather than being shocked. I
like leaving the theater refreshed rather than depressed. This movie
was perfect for me. It was fun and witty. There was no inappropriate
language or gratuitous sex (only what you see in the trailer). The only
disturbing (very brief) scene helped establish the villains as evil and
fanatic. 

This movie pays homage to the decade of my youth and brought back
memories of the history and style of the times but will still be
enjoyable to the younger audience who are not familiar with said
history, style, or TV show.

I think Henry Cavill is a talented actor, and I found his performance
excellent. It was his job to establish Napoleon Solo as a suave and
lighthearted cad who is nevertheless an intelligent and capable crook
turned CIA agent. He got the job done! This movie certainly shows he
can play a variety of roles. Armie Hammer is so funny in "Mirror,
Mirror" that his performance as a dedicated and austere career spy was
a delightful surprise. Hugh Grant and his brand of humor really added
to the movie. Alisha and Elizabeth are great in their roles and play
them with relish.

I loved the retro spy gadgets. Certainly enough action to satisfy me.
Too many funny scenes to name them all or without spoiling. Just go
watch the movie and see for yourself. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
I went into the movie for my birthday, being a young woman my twin and
I were initially attracted by the 2 leading male actors who were
captivating & handsome- but is that enough to make a movie watchable to
a certain degree? No. But this movie beat my expectations. I had
already read some online reviews by critics but to be honest I don't
know what movie they had went to see since the reviews were
overwhelmingly negative but it couldn't have been 'The Man From
U.N.C.L.E.'. It was a witty, and smart movie where each actor didn't
outshine one another. I personally do not trust critics since they tend
to like boring movies like 'The Lincoln Lawyer' that put me to sleep.
It's almost as if the movie was too witty for them & the quips and
snarky comments went over their daft heads and left a sour taste in
their mouths.

I recommend this movie to anyone if you liked the Robert Downey Jr.
Sherlock movies then you will thoroughly enjoy this. My only wish is
that it was a little longer but that doesn't detract from the quality
of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I had heard of the 60's television show "The Man from UNCLE", but like
most of us under the age of 60, never got the chance to see an episode.
I know, I know, there have been countless re-runs, it just never
grabbed my attention. All I could go on were the words from my wise
mother who stated, "I used to watch that show when I was a kid back in
the 60's. It starred.....oh what's his name.....Robert Vaughan." She
couldn't remember the other actor that starred along side Vaughan but I
was guessing she was just thrilled to have something from her childhood
reborn into the 21st Century.

Let me start by saying, this is a good movie. The star of the show is
undoubtedly the director, Guy Ritchie and like most film buffs, was
more curious than excited about U.N.C.L.E.'s arrival. I was curious to
see what Ritchie could do with a television program that has been dead
and buried for over fifty years. Was he going to modernise it for the
21st century? Was it going to be a serious take on the lighted-hearted
spy genre? Who was going to be in it? I am really glad I am getting the
chance to review one of Guy Ritchie's films because I am a fan. I
enjoyed Sherlock Holmes and his gritty London underground films but was
I going to enjoy this. He seems to be the go to director when Hollywood
needs a relic dug up and brought back to life.

Guy Ritchie's trademark is everywhere on this film, from the stylish
sets, to the retro fashion. The catchy score, the swagger, and the
witty banter, all are part of the Guy Ritchie experience. His ability
to take the audience back to the 1960's was a master stroke and will
keep UNCLE unique when compared to the many other spy franchises that
hit our cinema screens all too often. Ritchie was able to find the
right balance of subtle amusement, keeping true to the television show,
without making it into an obvious comedic sketch. It was an
entertaining, fun ride that engrossed the audience from start to finish
with enough action to keep the doubters glued to the screen.

We are introduced to the two protagonists, CIA agent, Napoleon Solo
(Henry Cavill) and KGB operative, Illya Kuryakin (Armie Hammer), who
team up against their wishes to foil the attempts of a mysterious
organisation to produce and profit from nuclear weapons. Set to the
backdrop of the Cold War, the two secret agents must rely on the
daughter of a German Scientist, Gaby Teller (Alicia Vikander) to
infiltrate the organisation. But is she more than just a mechanic? The
three stars are evenly matched throughout the film, each getting their
chance to shine in the spotlight but if there is a standout performance
it would have to be Ms Vikander who dazzles in a mesmerizing array of
1960's fashion. She looks the part and plays the part perfectly of a
seemingly innocent and sweet young woman tangled up in the world of
espionage.

Guy Ritchie has taken a gamble on his two leading men with both heavily
criticised in recent big budget roles but it pays off as Cavill and
Hammer look comfortable in their roles with neither outshining the
other. The two agents continually strive for superiority, mimicking
their own countries need for supremacy in the volatile world of the
1960's. Hammer's short tempered psychopath is perfectly balanced to the
cool, slick ladies man of Cavill. Elisabeth Debicki is chilling and
cold as the she-devil villain and the big goof, Hugh Grant is used to
perfection by Ritchie who gives him a nice cameo. Grant adds a bit of
star recognition to the film but comes across as rather likable with
well timed appearances.

This is a film to be enjoyed for what it is.....a fun ride. Taking it
too seriously will damage the experience.
<|_=00=_|>
Never watched the show, so can't compare the two, or whether or not
this is a faithful adaptation of it or not, but I loved this film. It
perfectly rides the fine line between straight 1960s spy movie
throwback, and satire of one.

Villain is pure 1960s vamp/ femme fatale, Henry Cavill and Armie
Hammer's chemistry alone makes this worth watching. Hammer's twitch as
his anger reaches boiling point is a great bit of detail. Cavill really
reminded me of Roger Moore's Bond, specifically from The Spy Who Loved
Me. He has a suave, "Trust me, I know what I'm doing" attitude
throughout.

Several scenes creatively have the action taking place in the
background, while the focus is on the foreground. A perfect example,
and maybe my favourite scene in the film, is Cavill sitting in a truck,
basically picnicking, with a large sandwich and bottle of Chianti,
while boat chase is playing out in front of him, reflected on the
windscreen.

The film is rated PG13, but it doesn't look watered down to get that
rating, ... Henchman's electrocution torture scene was both graphic and
simultaneously funny- another case of the action playing out in the
background, while Cavill and Hammer debate the fate while in the next
room.

The plot is a bit of a mess, especially toward the end, but a great
cast, sharp dialogue, and great attention to detail, and good action
makes this a winner
