
It was a rainy Sunday and I went looking for cheese, but found a savory
meal. Frankly, I was hoping to kill off a few brain cells in the
mindless fun of watching a movie about a killer tire. Expecting
something along the lines of Attack of the Killer Tomatoes, I wanted to
drown myself in delicious B-movie goodness. This coming from the man
that cannot change the channel when my remote calls up images of Joan
Collins being eaten by giant ants in Empire of the Ants.

Yet soon I realized that this film was so much more than horror spoof
or a silly gimmick film. The movie opens with a desert road randomly
strewn with simple wooden parsonage chairs facing in all directions.
Next a car appears and begins deliberately swerving into the chairs,
breaking each one of them, until it comes to a halt. At that point, a
sheriff emerges (from out of the trunk?!) and knocks on the driver door
where he is handed a full glass of water. The sheriff breaks the fourth
wall and begins addressing the audience by speaking of the "no reason"
principle of famous movies like E.T., Love Story and Texas Chainsaw
Massacre. This narration immediately reminded me of the criminologist
from Rocky Horror Picture Show, and I suddenly did not know what to
expect from this movie.

I honestly think the less said about this film the better. Suffice it
to say that Rubber is one part B-movie schlock, one part David Lynch,
and one part Hitchcock. (Did I just actually go there?) On my first
watching of the movie, I appreciated its style. The camera angles, the
homage to Psycho, the riveting and unnerving sound track were somehow
quite effective in producing suspense. Quite remarkable when the serial
tire is a generic tire! Juxtaposed against this atmospheric
cinematography was a very healthy dose of absurdity and dark humor.
This makes for an extremely interesting viewing experience, where the
audience switches abruptly from anticipation to laughter to abject
confusion.

The sheriff tells us that there is "no reason" for this film. What a
deceit! Because there is a reason for virtually everything Â– from the
opening scene of the destruction of chairs, to the irony of a Nascar
race, to the well placed remake of the song "Just Don't Want to be
Lonely" to (yes!) the turkey. Irony abounds even as our in character
heroine proclaims that she cannot read the lines of dialog because they
are garbage.

The second time I watched this movie, I focused on its true theme. I
realized with delight that the movie is about movies and their
audiences. Pay very close attention to every scene with the bystanders
on the road and you will realize that the killer tire story is not the
actual plot at all. Also, on second viewing, you can revel in the
brilliant personification of the killer tire (Robert). A tire that
learns, sleeps, recreates, dreams, and even has flashbacks to his
previous inanimate incarnation on an actual car. Observe the film
structure and use of the reflecting glass and incineration scene as key
catalysts. You will be amazed at all you missed when first watching
this movie. 

Astonishingly, this became my favorite movie of 2011 so far. Lovers of
film should not miss this.
<|_=00=_|>
"The film you are about to see is an homage to 'no reason', that most
powerful element of style." This is the manifesto that opens Rubber,
delivered directly to the audience in a breaking of the fourth wall
that is somewhat like taking a pound of dynamite to a pane of glass.

Rubber is a "horror" film about a black rubber car tyre that kills
people by making their heads explode. With telepathy. And when I say
"horror" I do of course mean "side-splittingly funny, pitch black,
absurdist comedy." The opening scenes of Rubber are a deliberate
assault on the separation between the audience and the film. Normally
the opening sequence of a film seeks to bring you into the world of the
film; the audience is encouraged to step through the silver screen and
forget about the real world for the duration of the story. Rubber
perverts these expectations. The film comes crashing through the
screen, into the world of the audience. It reminds us at every turn
that we are watching a film, and indeed that the very act of our
watching is what makes the film happen.

There are actually two plot lines at work in Rubber. The first concerns
a murderous inanimate object , an innocent but spirited young woman on
the run from some troubled element of her past, and the county sheriff
on the trail of the vulcanised psychopath. This is ostensibly the core
thread of the movie, but we soon see that this action only serves as a
literal distraction for the audience, who exist in the film, embodied
as actual participants, though ones who remain clearly and distinctly
removed from the action, watching events at a distance through field
glasses. This distraction covers the real story, that of the sheriff,
who is in fact the antagonist of the story, attempting to kill off the
audience (through the manoeuvrings of his toady, The Accountant) so
that the film can end and he can go home.

The movie within the movie begins with a sequence that could have come
straight from Leone's scrapbook. A man lies face down in a desert.
Slowly, he rises, and shakes himself off. He staggers along, and falls.
He rises again, and continues to stagger on, through the endless
desert. Except that the "man" in question is a rubber tyre (Roger,
according to the credits). This is the brilliance of Rubber; that it
can appropriate the cinematic language that we are so familiar with,
and apply it to situations that cannot be anything but utterly absurd.

Other scenes lift from a variety of sources, including a sequence that
takes place in what is clearly the Bates hotel from the original
Psycho. For a film that claims to be dedicated to meaninglessness, it
is ironic that not a single frame is without a clear purpose. Every
shot serves to either ensconce us in the impossible world of a rubber
tyre who murders people, or tear us forcibly out of it, as we return
repeatedly to the plight of the poor audience, stranded in the desert
with no food, and prey to depredations of a murderous cast member, or
possibly character. It's never clear whether the antagonist is an actor
who wants to stop playing his role, or a character in a story who wants
the story itself to end; the latter appeals, if only for its deeply
apocalyptic subtext. When the film ends, where does the character go?).

Even the choice of the supposed villain must have taken a great deal of
thought. It's such an elegant choice; an object capable of locomotion,
but without moving parts to cutely animate. Something that has an
element of menace (after all, a tyre, attached to a vehicle, can do a
lot of damage), but is also innately ridiculous. An object that can
fulfill the emotive needs of the film yet has remarkably little
capacity to emote. Consider that all this thing can do is roll forward,
roll backwards, fall over, stand up, and vibrate its sides. That's a
sum total of five things you can ask your star to do for you on screen.
As a film-making challenge alone, that's a spectacular feat to
undertake.

I could go on for days about the tiniest of "seemingly irrelevant but
incredibly well thought out" details that litter the film. That Rubber
invites such complex readings is a testament to the subtlety that
underlies the simple brilliance of the film itself. Whatever you may
think about the subtext and meaning of this supposedly meaningless
film, it doesn't really matter if Rubber "means" anything or not,
because whatever else it may be, the film is absolutely hilarious. We
are talking literal "tears of laughter" funny here.

Quentin Dupieux provides us with excellent cinematography, full of
lingering establishing shots and vivid, often deliberately off-frame
close-ups, and the cast all turn in magnificent performances,
especially Jack Plotnick, who demonstrates the ability to carry a scene
from laugh out loud funny to deeply uncomfortable in a matter of
seconds. The script is tightly written, and the humour builds on itself
in layers, rising from the initial "WTF?" moments of nervous laughter
to the farcical crescendo of the closing scenes, where every element of
the film collides in a scene that, if nothing else, will mean that I'll
never look at tricycles the same way again.

I could continue to pick at Rubber, pulling out detail after detail,
examining each one in turn to find new facets, new thoughts and
revelations. None of that really matters though; what you need to know
is that Rubber is the strangest, funniest, and most dazzlingly original
film you will see this year, and considering that Scott Pilgrim vs The
World just came out, that's one hell of an achievement.

Originally from http://www.rgbfilter.com/?p=9032
<|_=00=_|>
A movie about a killer tire sounds like the most ridiculous concept
next to someone creating a human centipede. Yet, these two concepts did
in fact make it onto film and both of them failed to meet their
absurdly high expectations. The film is a homage to 'no reason', as we
are told at the beginning and when a film is created for no reason, you
know you are in trouble. 

The film opens with a character talking directly to the viewer by
breaking the fourth wall. He states the the film has no purpose, so he
is actually preparing you for the most useless film you'll ever see.
Unless of course you've been one of the special few who have seen The
Room. As interesting as this may be, it's also a drawback. Why would
someone think that to interest an audience, you need to tell them from
the beginning that everything has no purpose what so ever. It makes the
audience feel like they are wasting their time. Rubber wasted my time. 

I don't know why the prospect of a killer tire that makes your head
explode sounded good to me, but it did. I thought I was in for a
ridiculously cheesy good time. I got something else entirely. A boring,
redundant film that has no fun factor. The audience is actually a part
of the film, represented by a few people who actually watch the events
unfold and make comments. Again, an interesting concept that never
materializes. 

I give the film credit for looking great, it never felt like a cheap
film to me. They get creative when shooting scenes with the tire, they
make the killer tire really seem to have a mind of it's own. They
actually give it a name in the credits, Robert. All this creativity is
wasted though on a script that bores the hell out of the viewer. They
were on a mission to make a film with no purpose, good job they
achieved it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is not for everyone. I understand some people will watch
this Hitchcockian masterpiece, and walk away perplexed. As is the case
with any work of art. This film will take you on a journey through an
unimaginable, inexplicable, but fantastic life of a tire that goes by
the name of Robert. This film is a tribute to classics like ... like
...I don't know, I was just joking anyway. This movie is TERRIBLE. If
you could say it's about anything, it's about an "ANIMATE" tire, not an
inanimate one as is described in the summary, but no reason to be a
douche about it. It shakes, and rattles, and makes things blow up. And
on top of that there's nothing on top of that. Personally, I can watch
anything. I make watching bad movies my biznass. So I know bad movies.
This movie falls into the category of, "Directors who want to see how
long it will take before you walk out the theater in disgust." I need
to work on my category titles but you get the idea.

Anyway, in this movie you're accompanied by a group of observers. There
each handed a pair of binoculars so they can watch as the events unfold
from a distance. They become the equivalent of some random jackass
talking throughout a movie. As the observers observe even they get
bored, and actually fall asleep while watching the same thing that your
watching. That's when I knew the writers, and director of this film
were laughing at my expense.

Now it's time for my mandatory negative review smart ass metaphor. If
you want to experience this film, save your self the time, and money.
Go find a spare tire, roll it down a hill, and then shoot yourself in
the face.
<|_=00=_|>
Sigh... I've been really looking forward for this one. And the premise
makes 'Rubber' sound almost irresistible. But there are two ways of
killing off a smart movie idea: 1.) Believe that the idea works so well
with the audience that it won't notice inconsistencies and bad acting.
2.) Constantly remind the audience what a smart idea it is watching.

Unfortunately, 'Rubber' succeeds in both: the only saving grace in
terms of acting is Wings Hauser, the other leads make you seriously
ponder an early leave. And what's with the pompous speeches? To be
sure, 'Rubber' is not about taking you out or into a moment. It's about
constantly reminding you that this moment isn't really happening. For
some, that might be a nice existentialist twist. For others, like me,
such ambition is completely out of place in a film about a tire blowing
people's heads up.

If you'd edit this down to five minutes, you'd get a seriously
hilarious short, though.

As for more rewarding options in the 'weird French horror film with
excellent cinematography' section, I suggest 'Amer' (2009). It's
equally pointless but delightful eye-candy (in the literal sense of the
word).
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing this peculiar, but compelling little picture, I really
wonder more than before what the motives are that any of us have for
making a pilgrimage to a theatre to watch a film! I found Rubber to be
downright hilarious at times and very disturbing at others. Quentin
Dupieux's oddball spectacle was 1 of the early sellouts at this past
Fantasia festival and hearing so many people talking about the story's
development made me want to check out the weirdness now that smaller
venues are booking the flick for exhibition. This will alienate as
many, if not many more, as it charms.

A mixed crowd of society's cross sections, not too much unlike the
basic groups and eccentric individuals in a typical movie audience
(slightly older know it all guys, obnoxious teens, thoughtful pre-teen,
elderly folks overwhelmed by it all, video camera toting bootlegger,
non-conformist cynic, etc.) are witnessing a spectacle many real people
would go into the desert to see. A vulcanized utilitarian item which
usually ends up as a child's toy tied to a tree or in a nightmarish
inferno is coming to "life" and wreaking havoc on the animate and
inanimate objects in it's path. Kind of like a spree murderer who gains
instant notoriety and with each subsequent act of "violence", bringing
more police and news attention to their progress.

You'll have to see the film yourself and make a determination of your
own, because this in a strange way is like being 1 of many witnesses to
an hypothetical crime spree. And we know that much eyewitness testimony
is not entirely credible when under the scrutiny of trained
interrogators & cold hard science like DNA, analogous to critics'
dissections & box office gross! I'm glad I saw Rubber, but am not naive
enough to think the majority of non-film buffs will agree. A
challenging, intentionally frustrating piece of 21st century
entertainment!
<|_=00=_|>
"Rubber" may be many things, but one thing it probably isn't is
something like anything you've seen before.

Whether that's good or bad will have to be decided by the individual
viewer. What to make of a movie that opens with a man addressing the
camera directly with a soliloquy about the unifying principle of life
and movies being that everything happens for no reason, and then
sitting down an audience in the middle of the desert to watch the movie
within the movie that we're watching before poisoning them all to
death? What to make of a movie about a tire that comes to life and uses
its telekinetic powers to make people's heads explode? Is this movie a
cautionary environmental tale, a sort of revenge-of-the-trash horror
film? Is it a deconstruction of the slasher/splatter genre? There are
enough references to classic movies (and the film's structure itself is
already reflexive) to suggest that "Rubber" is a riff on or homage to
something, but what that something is I'm not sure.

"Rubber" isn't quite good enough to rise above film-stunt status; you
can too often practically hear the people behind the camera
congratulating each other on their own cleverness. But it is often
quite funny, mostly thanks to Stephen Spinella, as the police officer
who serves as both our guide and the chief of police on the trail of
the killer tire, and Jack Plotnik, as the chief's geeky right-hand man.
If it left me somewhat baffled, it also left me thinking about it for a
long time afterward, and even now I think back on certain moments in
the film with a chuckle.

Grade: B+
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard that there was a new movie out about a tire that
becomes a serial killer I was intrigued. When I learned that it is the
work of French director Quentin Dupieux, I decided it was bound to be
rubbishÂ…until I discovered that Quentin Dupieux is better known as Mr.
Oizo, the electro house musician who brought us the infectious 1999 hit
single Flat Beat. Then I had to see it!

Rubber is the story of a tire. The tire's name is Robert. One day
Robert becomes sentient and decides to venture out into the world. It's
a moving scene as Robert takes his first halting rolls and discovers
the joy of squashing a plastic bottle and then a scorpion, until he is
stopped by a glass bottle. frustrated Robert soon discovers his true
powerÂ…he can make things blow-up with his mind. Pretty soon he's on the
road and heading straight for the local population and a mysterious
girl who he sets his sights on. Meanwhile on a remote hillside the
audience have gathered to watch his apparent path of wanton
destruction, with intrigue, apathy, joy and sadness. Standing between
them and their viewing pleasure is a cranky sheriff who really wants to
go home, and the lack of food and basic resources, which sets the crowd
on edge.

If that all sounds a bit weird then believe me that's not even the half
of it. Rubber is a deeply strange movie. Robert is almost a sympathetic
character. The way he is framed and the audience's investment in his
"birth" and journey give him a Wall-E type of existence. He almost wish
that he succeeds in his apparent mission of getting the girl. Roxane
Mesquida plays the girl. Unfortunately she's given little else to do
than be the token female. Aside from a brief scene were she's forced to
try lure Robert into a trap she doesn't even say much. The real star of
the show is Stephen Spinella as Lieutenant Chad, the world weary
law-man who is convinced it's all a show and that the movie would be
over if the audience just went away. He's opening monologue, direct to
camera, is a work of twisted genius.

Spinella's opening monologue in fact sets the tone for the whole movie.
Right off the bat you know that this is not a straight-forward horror,
it's actually more satire or comedy than horror truth be told, with
Spinella announcing that the movie exists "for no particular reason".
Dupieux has managed to make a film that harks back to Kentucky Fried
Movie and Airplane, without being a spoof, and has a cinematic quality
that would be totally at home in a western. His framing of Robert is
such as to make a viable character from an inanimate object. The
decision to ignore the fourth wall, by placing the audience in the
movie itself is a brave one, and mostly it works. It provides an aside
to the central story, which is sadly lacking in legs, and imbues the
entire movie with it's sense of oddness.

Inventive, stupid and completely unnecessaryÂ…yet offering something
completely different Rubber is one that will confound and titillate in
equal measures.
<|_=00=_|>
Which two words would you, and hopefully any other reasonable human
being, use to describe a movie with a plot synopsis like this: an
ordinary rubber tire comes to life in the middle of the Californian
desert, quickly discovers that he disposes of dangerous telepathic
powers and goes on a murderous stroll. The tire violently blows up
people's heads left, right and center while a cinematic audience
follows his joyful escapades from a safe distance through binoculars.
Well, most likely but completely justified you will use the words
"absurd" and "random". The most clever gimmick about this film,
however, is that it actually points out the randomness before you even
have the opportunity to ponder about it. "Rubber" opens with an
extended spoken monologue by one of the characters and he repeatedly
emphasizes the fact that everything in this film happens for absolutely
no reason at all. Even more so, "Rubber" is an hour and a half long
homage to randomness. Robert the tire comes to life for no reason. He
can make small animals and human heads explode for no reason. He chases
a cute brunette girl around for no reason. A group of bizarre people
observe him like it's a real life movie for no reason. You get the
picture. 

One could claim, of course, that writer/director Quintin Dupieux'
approach is innovative, courageous and humorous. This is true, in fact,
but sadly just for a very brief period. The first few images of a
seemingly half-drunken tire rolling through the sand and causing cute
little bunny rabbits to explode are undeniably hilarious (if you share
the same twisted sense of humor, that is) but it becomes dull and
derivative enormously fast. The "no reason" gimmick quickly loses its
panache and general fun-factor. Okay, so there's a psychopathic tire on
a rampage and it doesn't make any sense. We would have understand that
after five exploding heads instead of fifty as well. If "Rubber" had
been a short feature, it would have been equally effective. Perhaps
even more. Also, and this might be a purely personal opinion, I don't
really like it when director hide themselves behind the randomness
excuse. Everyone can think up a story that makes absolutely no sense.
It's too easy like that. Obviously I think there are several good
things to enjoy about "Rubber" as well, otherwise I wouldn't have given
the average rating. The desolate filming locations and complementary
references towards older movies are fun to spot. It was also
tremendously cool to see former B-movie star Wings Hauser ("Night
Shadows", "Vice Squad") in a prominent role again after so long. The
special effects and make-up art look adorably cheesy and the
electro/experimental soundtrack is quite awesome. The latter quality
shouldn't come too much as a surprise, since writer/director Quintin
Dupieux is primarily known as a musician and scored a humongous hit in
the late 1990's as Mr. Oizo with "Flat Beat".
<|_=00=_|>
Rubber is a collection of scenes on film, held together by duct tape
and bubble gum. The idea may have seemed great on paper but falls flat.
From the start it tries to be clever and fails. However, stupid people
will find the film clever and they will take pride in discovering the
"cleverness" of it. When I say stupid people I'm not talking about high
school drop outs or the guy working at the Shell station that has to
count out forty cents to make change. I mean college educated adults
that think they are cinema rebels. The kind of guy who screams about
Michael Bay on a forum but stills pays to go see Transformers 2 three
times. I will not call the movie stupid or horrible because its not.
This movie is nothing, I mean it N-O-T-H-I-N-G. Could it be something,
maybe, it could be a waste of time, it could be a "cult-hit" but in
three years no one will even give it a second thought. Why I am writing
this review, I can't really say other than I don't have a reason...
