
Planes is a mixture of its direct-inspiration Cars, Monsters
University, and the forgotten PBS Kids show Jay Jay the Jet Plane. Even
with reminders of brighter, more vivid animated works, Planes is a
middling Disney effort and clearly a corporate byproduct from Disney
(not Pixar as many will assume) to sell merchandise to children, with
the quality of the actual film being a clear afterthought.

The film was originally conceived as a direct-to-DVD film and have a
series of sequels follow accordingly. Of course, last minute, Disney
decided Planes and its planned sequels possessed enough promise to go
theatrical. This decision isn't hard to comprehend; Cars and its sequel
weren't critical favorites and their box office receipts were notably
lower than previous Pixar films, but their merchandise sales totaled
roughly $8 billion. From toy cars, to diecast collectibles, to
blankets, to bedspreads, to posters, to stray DVD short films featuring
the characters lining store shelves, the marketing behind the Cars name
was stunning and blatant. Planes hasn't been graced with the brazenness
of toys and TV commercials, making me question why Disney decided to
allow the film to go to theaters if they weren't going to milk it for
what's its worth.

Whatever; it's probably best the marketing splash for the film was
reduced to a quiet disruption in the cinematic ocean. The film focuses
on Dusty Crophopper (voiced by Dane Cook), an ambitious cropdusting
plane that predictably spends his days flying over tall grass spraying
fertilizer. His ambition is to become a racing plane, flying high,
soaring to unforeseen heights, and racing around the world. His biggest
drawback isn't really the fact that he's not built for flying of this
capacity but his fear of heights. Since he is so used to flying at
pretty low heights for planes, he fears soaring to the "highway in the
sky," as put by Skipper Riley (Stacy Keach), an F4U Corsair with a
successful past, who also serves as Dusty's mentor. Backed by a crew of
ground-ridden misfits (okay, vehicles) and his passion, which is
incorruptible, Dusty's dreams literally soar as he competes in one of
the most prestigious plane competitions in the world.

The animation in the film is some of the strangest I've seen in the
post-CGI animation takeover. Some scenes are truly evocative and
breathtaking, and usually exist when we're somewhere like the Taj Mahal
or in The Himalayas. They showcase the location in stark detail and
really show off the beauty and majestic area that encompasses such a
place. Other scenes, specifically ones that feature several characters
on the screen at one time, appear stunningly bland and unfinished. They
almost look like unfinished products of CGI animation  like the final
still before all the finalizing and color-correcting is done. They lack
detail and lighting specifics known in modern animated films, and
before you tell me otherwise, remember Disney just brought us "Wreck-It
Ralph," which showcased dozens of video game worlds through the
beautiful medium that is animation.

This is likely because the project was meant to line store shelves
immediately rather than be blown on the big screen. On an average,
living-room-size Television, Planes probably looks pretty damn good. On
a gigantic theater screen before an audience of maybe fifteen people
(in my case), it looked underwhelming. Whether or not you liked "Cars"
or its sequel (I'm in the minority that loved the original film and
tolerated the sequel), you can't say this film exists on the same level
of visual beauty that the latter pictures did. Cars 2, alone, had a
number of amazing set-pieces and lighting techniques that were used
perfectly. Even Monsters University was beautiful in the way the
animation was textured and the way the lighting was used to brighten
and liven certain settings. In comparison to the look of other animated
features such as Despicable Me 2 and Turbo (both of which currently
attracting children now), Planes will likely not come close to the
revenue of both of those films or inspire the true awes thanks to the
animation.

To all the people who criticized Larry the Cable Guy's Mater as being
an insufferable character, I challenge the same people to not mention
the stunning shallowness of the characters here, especially the
international planes that could be the perfect example as to why other
countries view Americans as close-minded and ignorant. Just to give you
an inkling as to how deep the international planes are, one is named
"El Chupacabra," and is known for being a passionate romantic, a gifted
Mexican singer, and a telenovela star. He also boasts the most
stereotypical Mexican accent in cinema history. For all you kids out
there, imagine Juandissimo Magnifico from The Fairly Odd Parents and
there you have it. Even the British plane at one point says, "I don't
cry, I'm British!" There are children's films that will make both a
child and their parent smile and have a rewarding time at the movies
(most of them come from Pixar, but Dreamworks is known for several
too). There are children's films that will appeal to children and leave
the parents groaning at the thought they had to pay to get in as well.

Then there are films like Planes that may appeal to some children, but
the stimulating effect on their growth and mental health shouldn't be
sacrificed for the ninety-two minute electronic babysitter that the
film is. Everything about the film has been done in previous animated
efforts, right down to the "be yourself and be brave" moral at the very
end, only this time, it feels especially, almost unacceptably lazy and
contrived.
<|_=00=_|>
Feelings before seeing Planes was more the "not sure how it was going
to turn out" sort of feeling. On one hand, there was the hope that
Disney(or Disney Toon Studios to be exact) would continue the return to
form trend started with 2009's The Princess and the Frog, which later
saw even better films with Tangled(their best film since The Hunchback
of Notre Dame) and Wreck it Ralph, Winnie the Pooh was also very sweet.
There was also the feeling of trepidation as well because reading the
plot line gives the sense that it would be predictable and unoriginal.
Regardless of any initial feelings, the only way to judge Planes was to
see it. Sadly, Planes was very disappointing for this viewer and
possibly their weakest since Chicken Little. And this is coming from
somebody who hopefully knows how to judge family films, yes guys this
is a family film not a kids' film.

Planes does have things that it did do well. The animation is the best
aspect by some considerable distance, it is great, not the best
animation there's ever been but it looks beautiful all the same. It
manages to be colourful and well-textured with detailed backgrounds and
well-designed characters. The camera angles as well are a source of
wonder, they're very well-incorporated and really give the sense that
you're journeying in the air with the character. The music is catchy,
with very well-chosen songs, and serves the film very well, the
mariachi version of Love Machine is very sweet and fun. The aviation at
least shows that the writers have done their research. The voice acting
too is commendable all round, with Dane Cook in particular voicing with
enthusiasm. John Cleese, Julia Louis-Dreyfuss and Val Kilmer are
pleasing too, though they have been better.

Unfortunately Planes is also one of those films where it starts slowly
and unpromising and never really takes off, sorry couldn't resist. The
story just doesn't have any spark, the storytelling is predictable and
lazy and the pacing sedate. People have said that it is basically Cars
in the air with touches of Top Gun, Jay Jay the Jet Plane and The Ugly
Duckling story and that is true, it is a very derivative film that
makes a bigger problem in that there is nothing of surprise or
distinction. The script lacks freshness, charm and wit, instead it's
full of tedious down-time talk, tired one-liners and jokes(crazy like a
firefox for example) and has no emotional impact. The
air-force/aviation jargon might go over children's heads as well. The
romance between Dusty and Ishani comes across as a cliché that is
poorly developed, almost like an afterthought. The characters are
annoyingly shallow, Dusty is not so bad but the rest are not very
interesting and their development is thin, Skipper's back-story
especially felt shoe-horned in and forced. El Chupacabra has his
moments but is a stereotypical character(something that people may take
a dislike to) and too many of his jokes are lame. In fact there are a
lot of cultural stereotypes, and much of them border on the
insensitive. The villain Ripslinger is also stereotypically designed
and is possibly one of Disney's blandest villains, with some of the
most annoying and unnecessary goons of any animated film in recent
memory. The action looks good in the animation but fails to generate
any excitement, much of it suffers from too much predictability and
that the pacing is too sedate throughout.

In conclusion, far from a truly terrible film or the plane wreck it's
made out to be but a disappointingly lazy one where it's easy to see
the things Planes has been criticised for. Then again this is personal
opinion and be taken with a pinch of salt instead of being discarded
for being an opinion being different to your own. 4/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
OK so it's no Cars. Or actually, it's very much like Cars, but the
Planes part of that world. That's the whole idea. The Brent
Mustangburger character ties it together if there was any doubt. Some
of the jokes are similar. Some of the sight gags are similar. But the
story itself is actually superior. Rather than a story about a spoiled
sociopathic jerk who discovers that he actually does have a heart, this
is a story of an individual who is all heart and proves to the world
that you can be more than what everyone else tells you that you have to
be. The Skipper character is very much reminiscent of the Doc character
but that isn't necessarily a bad thing. Overall, it's a very inspiring
story. Perhaps a little contrived, but it's a cartoon for kids. Lighten
up! The jokes are good. The animation is good. My 4 year old daughter
liked it and so did I (a 40yo man). As an inspiring story for kids to
dream, work hard hard, and succeed, it is far superior to Cars in every
way.
<|_=00=_|>
I've just bought a new food processor. If you put in every animated
film ever made, and set it to the highest setting, you may come out
with something like Planes.

You have the plucky young dreamer who seems destined to a life of
drudgery, but aspires for higher things. He has a stoopid best friend,
who is charming in his own special way. There is an elderly mentor, who
initially turns down the whippersnapper when he asks for his help...
but gosh darn it, he changes his mind once he sees how determined the
kid is. The bad guy is an irredeemable moustache-twirler with two
giggling goons who follow him around everywhere. A 'comedy relief' is a
cheeseball Mexican who is obsessed by dance and romance (of course, and
this guy outstays his welcome from his first syllable). As for the love
interest, she starts off working for the evil dudes, but soon discovers
her true feelings, and...

So on, and so forth. There isn't one original idea in the whole
farrago... and that's without even getting into the recycled story or
the below par animation. The fact is, this is film-making by committee:
it ticks every box, caters for every demographic but missing that all
important ingredient: soul. If you respect your kid's intelligence,
take 'em to see something else this Summer. 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
There is a bimodal distribution (2 peaks) in the user review scoring of
Planes: 1-star, this is a horrible rip- off, nothing new here, Pixar's
image is tarnished - and 10-star, what a wonderful kid's film, details
are excellent, funny, good message.

First, this is not a Pixar film. You read that right. It's Disney, not
Pixar. But it does have common cast of writers/producers. You may even
note the tag line, "From above the world of Cars," overtly
acknowledging the connection. If you can get past the notion of a
rip-off, then, you'll find a lovely, joyful movie with enough to keep
parents entertained while children are having a blast.

Yes the characters resemble those in Cars. Yes some of the plot lines
are familiar. Yes the animation is similar to Cars (although the flight
scenes are spectacular in spots). You know what I remember? Cars was a
great movie! I'm pretty sure I remember that since I've seen it 147
times with my son (not really).

This is not an academy award winning movie. But it is a lot of fun.
Before giving this children's cartoon 1-star, be clear what you're
watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Yea, its a kid's movie. Yea, the reviews were bad so I went in with low
expectations. Despite that and other factors this movie disappointed
even my diminished hopes that it would provide some entertainment. It
was banal, completely trite, devoid of anything even slightly new,
didn't even have any small chuckles from some slight unexpected twist
or resolved tension. It was flat as a pancake. Even both my kids (7 an
16) remarked that it was like a thousand other things they have seen
without anything new or interesting. The actors voices were flat too.
Like they didn't really put much effort into the emotions. Of course,
since there was no real substance to the dialog its hard for an actor I
suppose.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, this movie was lame for this reason. It's pretty obvious that
Disney just wanted to squeeze as much juice as they could from "Cars",
so they basically make another "Cars" movie, and just make the main
characters into "Planes." Like I just said, very lame-o.

On the positive side, the quality of the animation is very good, and
you I'm sure a lot of the kiddies can't get enough of this stuff, and
I'm sure they will have a lot of cute toys, maybe even a ride from this
movie, but seriously, if you are older than 7, maybe 8, you will be
able to see right through this as just another marketing ploy by
Disney.

I believe they have a sequel in the works for next year as well, so
gear up for that folks!
<|_=00=_|>
A plane that is afraid of heights? Really, is that all you could come
up with... 

That's like a car that's afraid of a freeway. This is only going to be
enjoyed by children under 10, if even that. Bob the builder is better,
seriously. 

Summary: Jokes were not funny - Every line was trying too, too hard -
Any effort to give the characters life fall very, very short - Action
scenes were boring and predictable - It was like drinking a flat soda,
no spark or fizz from start to finish. 

Well, I feel like I have put more effort into this review than it
deserves! Which is more than I can say for the film.

UGH, I want my time back please!
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched this computer animated feature in 3-D with my movie
theatre-working friend. Part of me knew this was going to be a formula
movie with the Disney trademarks of someone thought of as being average
doing extraordinary things being the premise but it still works here.
Also, there was some good funny lines sometimes and the story and
characterizations were not bad if not great. I mean, John Cleese is
good at being the stuffy Brit as one of the racing planes. There were
also many exciting point-of-view shots of the leading plane flying
through the skies so there was that. I also liked another one of the
planes serenading a female racer with a slow version of "Love Machine".
So on that note, Planes is worth a look if one is not too
discriminating in choosing one of these late summer movies...
<|_=00=_|>
In the world of underdog characters, a little crop-dusting plane named
Dusty Crophopper stands, or rather, flies alone. Unlike other put-upon
heroes, he is, right off the bat, utterly intrepid and gracefully
confident and knows exactly what must be done. First he's gotta qualify
against really fast jet planes and then compete in an around-the-world
race. Sound easy? 

The way Disney tells this basic story, there are few problems for our
little flying engine that could  expect he's afraid of heights, and
one plane will do anything in the Tortoise/Hare dirty trick fashion to
make him lose everything. After all, the longshot Dusty has taken all
the media from his competitors including a Spanish romantic, a British
snob, two sexy females and that one cocky villain. But it's really
nothing stressful, no worries... he has his future all mapped out. 

The problem with PLANES, other than seeming like a bland
straight-to-DVD semi-sequel to CARS, is the downtime between each leg
of the race. Dusty and his two closest friends (a gas station truck and
an old war jet serving as a tattered mentor) talk up a tedious storm
during overlong pockets of downtime, making those high-flying scenes
the only thing to look forward to 

And while the colorfully rip-roaring aerial shots are pretty darn cool,
especially in 3D, the action can be easily matched by playing PLANES
THE VIDEO GAME in the cozy confides of home.
