
I really liked the original Zoolander, with its unique brand of
cleverly dumb comedy, but I never thought we needed a sequel.
Nonetheless, when Zoolander 2 was announced, I was looking forward to
it, and with a couple of pretty entertaining trailers, I thought that
this wasn't going to be one of those awful comedy sequels.

Oh, how wrong I was.

I'm sorry to say that Zoolander 2 is easily one of the worst comedy
sequels I've ever seen. Apart from a couple of chuckles, it failed to
make me laugh on a consistent basis, further angering me as it got more
and more boring and irritating as the film unfolded. Its story makes
absolutely no sense, and the narrative gets completely tangled up on
numerous occasions, destroying any enjoyment you could have found in
the film away from the terrible comedy, making this a thoroughly dull
and difficult movie to watch from start to finish.

The main thing we have to talk about here is how bad the comedy is. All
comedy sequels are tough to do, but normally, by keeping everything
pretty similar, you can get an entertaining movie. The problem with
Zoolander 2 is that it completely fails to deliver the brilliant sense
of humour that first film had.

The original Zoolander wasn't a dumb film, in fact it was a really
clever comedy that centred around a dumb character. The jokes were
well-written, and the majority of the humour stemmed from those main
characters. In the sequel, however, the comedy is just dumb. Relying
WAY too heavily on celebrity cameos for cheap laughs, and just
completely underwhelming gags on a constant basis, there's very little
to laugh at.

I will admit I chuckled a couple of times. Benedict Cumberbatch's
slightly offensive transgender character that you've seen in the
trailers was pretty good, and a couple of the jokes they did satirising
modern social media and hipsters etc. weren't too bad either.

Apart from that, this is a hugely unfunny film, and I'd say about 95%
of all of the jokes completely miss the mark. Sometimes, when there was
a joke, it would take me a few seconds to realise that it was actually
meant to be funny. And when I say sometimes, I mean pretty much all the
time, which shows you just how unfunny this is.

Now, that's the main objective of a comedy: to make you laugh. But,
seeing as that failed completely in Zoolander 2, maybe the story could
have salvaged something.

No, it didn't. The plot here is absolutely atrocious. Whilst the first
film had a clear focus, Derek being brainwashed to kill the Malaysian
Prime Minister, everything in the sequel is all over the place. At some
points they're looking for the assassins, sometimes they're just trying
to do fashion, sometimes they want to find Derek's son, and all sorts
of other rubbish that made this a hugely messy film that failed to
interest or entertain me at any point.

Now, I've been really harsh to Zoolander 2 here, and although I think
it definitely deserves heavy criticism, there is one thing that I do
have to praise, and that's Ben Stiller's directing. Much like the first
film, Zoolander 2 looks very stylish, just like the world of high
fashion should be. Every scene is fantastically put together, the
action sequences are brilliantly choreographed, and it is generally a
very nice film to look at.

That's it for positives, though. Overall, Zoolander 2 was a painfully
disappointing film. It completely fails to live up to its predecessor,
but most importantly, it almost never makes you laugh, and with such a
huge amount of jokes coming your way, it becomes quickly annoying and
horrendously dull to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Zoolander 2 is once again directed by Ben Stiller and we get to see
Owen Wilson, Will Ferrell and Stiller himself return to their former
roles, which is the one positive thing I can say about this movie. The
cast is still good in their roles. Derek and Hansel are still the same
characters and they play them with enthusiasm and Mugatu is well, OK.
Sadly, everything else is pretty much garbage. The humor did not work
at all and I just wanted it to be over. After 5 minutes of the movie I
was just exhausted. This is a clear example that bigger does not mean
better. I am a fan of the original Zoolander and one of the things I
liked about that film is that it was just a small comedy with a
relatively small budget and it evolved as a cult film. Zoolander 2
tries to be bigger than the first one and it just doesn't work. The
first was pretty much about Mugatu trying to hypnotize a male model to
assassinate the prime minister of Malaysia. That was the plot. Stupid?
Definitely, but it worked in its own right. This one's about Derek
trying to locate his son, while male models are being assassinated,
which actually did not pay off at all in the end. 

The movie is filled with unnecessary cameos and there can be too much
of a good thing. It happened last year with the Entourage movie and now
with this. Like I said, everything is bigger, the scope and even the
effects, but what Stiller and his production crew don't get is that
what made the original Zoolander so funny and good was that it seemed
like they were taking a chance. It was kind of cheap and small but it
worked.

The film doesn't work at all but I'll say this: At least it didn't feel
cynical. To me it seemed like they were actually trying to make a good
film and a funny one but it just did not work. The humor is mostly like
people getting hit in the face and stuff like that. The movie also
tries way too hard to recall on things from the original that were
funny. As a fan of the original and as a moviegoer in general, I would
not recommend Zoolander 2. I laughed 5 times in the whole movie. I
counted them. And as a comedy that's the main problem with the movie:
It was not funny.

1.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I took the opportunity to a watch a preview of Zoolanader 2. The first
Zoolander is a favourite of mine. Unfortunately Zoolander 2 failed to
deliver the same level of comedy. Gags kept missing the mark. At one
point when I sensed there was a joke on the way, I made a conscious
effort to listen out for laughter in the screening room. There was
silence. The narrative kept grinding to a halt to accommodate the
celebrity cameos, all of which were painfully dull. At the start of the
film we see Zoolander and Hansel as old, lame and out of touch. I found
this to be a little depressing. I questioned if they had waited too
long to make this film. Things did improve towards the end. The plot
had direction, it had more energy and Will Ferrell had a couple of
funny moments. Sadly it wasn't enough.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're a fan of the first film it's at least worth a watch. While
the film feels disjointed and situations are forced, it still has a few
really funny moments.

Like many sequels it suffers from trying to have too many callbacks to
the first film. A lot of jokes are shoehorned in for a quick laugh.

One of the problems is that in a weird way the film is almost too
silly. The original felt way more grounded despite being totally absurd
at the same time. The two elements contrasted very well and enhanced
the humor.

I'm a bit disappointed that this is the best they could come up with
after all this time but I can't say I wasn't entertained and that I
didn't laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
Here is the thing - too many times I have made a mistake to watch a
film only based on it's IMDb rating or reviews.

This crucial piece of information that is missing here is:

- who is rating/reviewing the title? 

- which other films did the one love/hate?

That is why I want to give some information about me before giving my
two cents on Zoolander2:

- 35 year old male 

- as a kid I loved Mel Brooks films, Hot Shots Franchise, Jim Carrey
Works... 

- I love brother Farrelly comedies 

- I enjoy most of Ben Stiller works (Cable Guy, Tropic Thunder...)

Now, with this information in mind, we can proceed:

In spite of bad ratings I chose to watch this one, and I didn't regret
it. It is a well crafted over the top comedy with some clever and
satirical gags.

Because of the fact that it's over the top - from start to finish, I
don't have any problems with the story. 

I guess it just depends on the mindset and maybe the mood. Both me and
my wife had many laughs during the whole film. 

Was it predictable? Yes. But I wasn't expecting it to be any different
:)

I hope this helps. 

Peace out.
<|_=00=_|>
Zoolander 2 was just nonsense. I went to see this film last night with
a couple of friends. After seeing the first movie i really enjoyed and
and was excited to see what the new one would entail. after sitting
down through about 25 Min's of the movie about 4 people walked out and
didn't return. yet again about 20 Min's later another 8 people walked
out. this came as quite a shock to me as i know the movie was bad but
is it that bad that you would walk out?. I mean all the jokes were
rebooted from the last movie which was OK but still just felt like they
were too lazy to add any new ones. If you want to see this movie then
go ahead but just be warned that you may most be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Fifteen years after the original comes this unfunny sequel with plot
and jokes written on the back of a cigarette packet.

The opening is promising enough with Justin Bieber as a series of pop
singers have suddenly died with a certain look in their face. The look
is associated with Derek Zoolander (Ben Stiller.)

In the meantime Derek has hit rock bottom when a building he designed
collapsed killing his wife, he has lost his son to the authorities and
hit rock bottom. However he is reunited with his old rival Hansel
McDonald (Owen Wilson) also facially scarred in the building collapse
and they are sent on a mission by the Interpol Fashion Police led by
Valentina Valencia (Pen√©lope Cruz) to find out who is killing these
celebrities and why do they have one of Zoolander's signature look.

There are plenty of celebrity cameos, some fun poked at the fashion
industry and Derek wanting to get his son back. The plot is a pot
pourri of different story strands meshed together but it is never
coherent. There is nothing really funny going on, it is absurd but the
jokes consistently miss the mark.
<|_=00=_|>
Although I might get booed for saying this, I actually really enjoyed
this sequel. I was glad that it didn't have a lot of toilet humor and
that they managed to find ways of being stupid around it, such as the
prison full of male models. 

There were so many good jokes in this, admittedly with more focus on
the social media and pop culture world of today than the modeling
industry (that isn't to say Billy Zane wasn't enjoyed). I love how
celebrities from Susan Boyle to Katy Perry got to have themselves
raised as above the failing and stumbling Zoolander-Hansel duo.

My only advice is to go in expecting to see something stupid, it is a
sequel and it doesn't live up to the original, but if you go in
expecting the original you will be disappointed. If you go in expecting
it to be terrible, I'm pretty sure you'll enjoy it. Plus, I do the
early bird for $10 less per ticket so I definitely got my money's
worth.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start off this review by saying that the original Zoolander is
one of my favorite comedies, and one of the funniest movies I've ever
seen. I was ecstatic over news of a sequel and followed up on all the
latest happenings throughout the course of production. With that being
said, I feel as though this sequel was a fairly big disappointment. I
certainly didn't hate it, by any means, as there were certainly some
moments where I got a good chuckle, but that's as far as it went. No
big, hilarious, laugh-out-loud moments like the ones that made the
first film so memorable. In addition, I found some spots to be more
creepy/dark than they were funny, such as some of the scenes with
Mugatu, Matilda being dead, and especially All, the biggest Super-Model
in the world, who genuinely scared the hell out of me....Sorry if I
offended anyone with that comment. 

Overall, I'd say it's in the same company as Anchorman 2 and Dumb And
Dumber To - a day late, dollar short sequel. While you're excited to
see these characters again and glad the film was made, it feels like
it's nothing you haven't seen before.
<|_=00=_|>
I made a registration here at IMDb just to say this. There is not a low
enough mark for this pathetic excuse for a movie(-99/10). Garbage like
this should be burned and forgotten or not even created in the first
place. Not worth the watch. Not worth the money invested in it. I think
who ever financed this would have done better by gambling it away than
paying for this movie. Shallow and simplistic with clich√© humor. I
honestly think a brain damaged chimp could do better than this for a
script. Also ... clearly there is some sort of censure script here that
won't allow me to post even more nicer things. :) Do not watch this.
WASTE OF TIME.
