
I watched this film in cinema, because I quite enjoyed the first movie,
"2 Days in Paris" - it contained some genuinely funny and also charming
scenes and was a well-executed rom-com that would in principle please
both men and women.

It's unfortunate that I can't say the same about its sequel. To begin
with, structurally it mirrors exactly the first film - cultural
differences, relationship put under test, climax and separation, relief
and happy ending. This lack of innovation alone wouldn't have spoiled
the movie, if there had been at least some well-devised humor, a good
chemistry between the lead actors or realistic behavior by the
characters to start with.

However, the French characters just misbehave to the point of being
totally unbelievable and the jokes are overall nothing short of
adolescent. In addition to that, the plot recycles too many really old
ideas, like the main character selling her soul and then wanting it
back or inventing a terminal disease to calm down her neighbors and
then trying to cope with their attempts to help her.

The movie had its few funny moments when it was focusing on the
relationship between Marion and her sister, Rose or when Marion's and
Mingus' children mimic socially highly unacceptable behavior that they
observed with their French visitors during an art exhibition. However,
for the most part, the jokes are predictable and just not funny.
Furthermore, given that the chemistry between Julie Delpy and Adam
Goldberg was much better than between Julie Delpy and Chris Rock, I
would recommend watching the first movie instead, if you haven't done
so yet. On the other hand, if you have, then you already know the
sequel as well.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say this movie kept me laughing! I was a Julie Delpy fan
anyway,so when I saw that Chris Rock was in it & they were playing a
couple I thought this could be interesting. I really loved that the
movie had great pacing. It moved along pretty quickly. When the family
finally arrived from France the movie shifts into high gear. I
especially loved the script.I never knew what a great writer Julie
Delpy was!The father is a hoot,I loved that the sister thinks that her
& Chris Rock have this connection(Even if he's with her sister,and she
came with her boyfriend.}I love how things being said in french &
English get mixed up. I can see that Chris Rocks time on Broadway is
paying off and he's picking better movies. Anyway give this movie a
shot you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
When I read the blurb on what this film was about I thought 'Hey, Chris
Rock, French people and a funny meeting with the future in/out laws.
Sounds good to me!' How wrong could I have been? I know for a fact that
this film is NOT a true representation of how French families behave
and find it difficult to believe that a French person wrote it! Some
may consider me to be a bit of an old fuddy duddy for not particularly
enjoying unnecessary swearing in films but to have to read them in
wonderful HD was a bit beyond the pale for me! Maybe I'm lucky and have
only ever met decent French people, who knows? Would the 2 sisters in
this film really have behaved and sworn the way they did had they been
in Paris? Not very likely so why should we believe anything about the
film if they do it in New York? Chris Rock played the straight man and
throughout the film looked lost and confused. I honestly think that
most of the time he was wondering what the hell he was doing in the
film in the first place? I have rated this film as a 1 but only because
Zer0 was not an option. All in all a MASSIVE disappointment and I will
not be in a hurry to go and see any more films involving any of the
same cast.
<|_=00=_|>
Just a couple of minutes in, I realized that Delpy has suddenly gotten
older. That's not a problem at all, but now she reinvents herself as a
sort of Diane Keaton while still Woody Allen's muse, with the glasses
half way down her nose and constant verbal notes to self, and all the
insecure, but kind of intellectual but still crazy enough to say a
dirty word hihi, with all the New Yorker do not care how I dress
attitude and wardrobe. Other than lack of originality, still NOT a big
problem, until she conveniently portrays the french visiting relatives
as some sort of peasants who are always either high or drunk, and which
smell because they don't bathe enough and are generally loud and
obnoxious. To create some comical situations, no doubt, but with little
success. Talk about narrow minded preconceptions, but what do you call
it when it comes from a compatriot!? I guess Delpy saw fit to remake
the bland Very Bad Trip into a pseudo intellectual cross culture
cardboard cutout. Well, mission accomplished, mamie. The terminal
disease bit deserves a special note just for how stretched and juvenile
distastefully it is done. All in all a weak effort.

One last foot note: I've never been a great Chris Rock fan, but between
the rest of them, he truly shines.
<|_=00=_|>
I think it's hilarious that some of the reviewers chastise the FRENCH
Julie Delpy for portraying French people abroad in an unbelievable and
unflattering light. Yeah of course you are more likely to be right!
Part of the charm of the movie is showing that many cultures, when
travelling, behave far more informally than they do at home. The
situations here are supposed to be caricatures and not politically
correct plastic people and they work well. And yes, the French talk
about sex a lot - it's part of their charm - and they like to embarrass
each other too. These guys are supposed to be from Brittany which isn't
Parisienne sophistication but rural grit and it makes for a very funny
movie that doesn't contain a Allen-esque message but is great
entertainment pure and simple. Don't come to the movie expecting Chris
Rock standup and zaniness (great casting for that reason alone) but to
be humoured in a gentle way more reminiscent of slapstick than Woody
Allen. Julie Delpy writes very well and maintains a good pace as
director. All in all a job well done.
<|_=00=_|>
Its obsessed with sex, its crass, neurotic and just not credible. The
characters are contrived, and my wife and I wished we gave up earlier
than minute number 12. I'm sure there must be some New York families
like this, but hopefully not too many, because this is a poor
fabrication of a pathetic scenario that left if not caring what is
going to happen next. We have lived in France - and never met anybody
as bizarre as the characters here. The credibility of the customs scene
is around zero- I've never known anybody that stupid. The wanna-be
Woody Allen directing left Woody Allen looking good - and I don't like
Woody Allen. We soon found something else better to do with our lives
than waste it on this film.
<|_=00=_|>
A good idea before watching a film sequel would be to check out the
original, imagine watching Return of The Jedi without knowing that
Darth Vader was Luke Skywalker's father (apologies if I've spoiled that
for anybody). Well, I agreed to watch 2 Days in New York today without
any idea that it was the follow-up to 2 Days In Paris, a French film
about relationships, I found out. Horrified that I had been tricked
into watching (what i assumed was) a Romance film, I was expecting the
worst, but this was actually quite funny, not as funny as The Dictator,
but certainly not a romance, more of a drama about mad families.

Chris Rock plays Mingus and Julie Delpy plays Marion, a couple in their
late 30s who both have kids from previous relationships. They're a
classic middle-class couple, living in a nice New York apartment and
both with good jobs. However, Marion's family from France quickly
arrives to visit her, and all sorts of madness ensues, from the younger
sister who is constantly craving sex (with anyone), to the sister's
boyfriend, who brings drug dealers back to the apartment. The film is
like a sophisticated version of Meet The Parents, and without a doubt
the only time I've seen Chris Rock in a serious role, playing a
responsible guardian in the film rather than the comedian we all know
and love, but it works. The film doesn't directly follow on from the
original, (or so my friends told me, they could have just been lying),
so you can watch it as a stand-alone film, I certainly enjoyed it.
Surprisingly good.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
When the movie began I turned to my fellow cinema goer and asked, is
this the film??? And for the first 10 minutes we wondered if we'd made
a mistake choosing this film over the other option... A kiss for Jed.
But I can safely report that its well worth a watch!!! Its laugh out
loud funny at times and has a heart :)Its uplifting and different. I
was very impressed with Chris Rock playing a character slightly outside
his comfort zone, and for taking on what I would consider to be a risky
project, it certainly paid off and he was very believable as a 'real'
character. anyone with interesting in-laws will appreciate and get a
laugh out of this film. So go see it!!
<|_=00=_|>
Coming from someone who enjoyed "2 Days in Paris" but was annoyed by
the forever cynical and far too whiny Adam Goldberg, "2 Days in New
York" is an altogether better rehashing of its predecessor from
writer/director Julie Delpy (but this time in New York and with Chris
Rock). Starring Delpy, once again as the main character Marion, "2 Days
in New York" also sees the same actors reprising their roles, including
Alexia Landeau as Rose, the antagonistic sister and Alexandre Nahon as
Manu, the horned-up ex-boyfriend (and in this film, Rose's current
boyfriend). Delpy, the woman obsessed with exploring finite segments of
relationships, has written and directed a film which is visually
nowhere near excellent, but does contain an abundance of very witty
dialogue that rivals the likes of Woody AllenÂ…if Woody Allen was a
neurotic French woman. Let me put it this way; only in a Julie Delpy
movie could one hear a "Waiting For Godot" joke followed by a
Salt-n-Pepa joke.

The Plot: The very beginning of "2 Days in New York" neatly ties up all
loose ends from the previous Jack and Marion relationship and quickly
delves into the story of Marion and her new African American (you've
hooked me already) boyfriend Mingus (I know, what an unfortunate name)
played by Chris Rock. Their relationship is described to be something
of a fairytale (but not quite a Disney fairytale, because they are in
an interracial relationship). But when Marion's very French family
comes to visit, a series of catastrophically comical Woody Allen-esque
happenstances ensue, which could result in a breakup; and more
astoundingly yet another failed relationship for Marion.

While the chemistry between Rock and Delpy is very convincing here,
Delpy's writing is still the driving force which allows this story to
work so well. And the reason the writing works so well is, like a great
piece of stand-up comedy, Delpy has created a film centered around a
series of culturally comical skits dealing with the French/American
interactions, or cultural relations. But more impressive (and maybe
more importantly) this female Woody Allen has created a venue for Chris
Rock to find a happy-medium between his weak dramatic abilities and his
strong comedic skills.

Chris Rock as an Actor: I've never thought much of Rock (maybe the
funniest comedian alive) as an actor. And who would blame me with a
filmography which includes "Grown Ups", "Head of State" and "Osmosis
Jones". But, with that said, a movie like "2 Days in New York" sees a
type of role Chris Rock should be striving to get. The Mingus character
is one that while conducive to a scene or two of Rock's babbling
stand-up bit, is accentuated by loads of very subtle adult comedy and
some very low key romantic moments, that which showcases Rock's acting
potential in a non-slapstick fashion.

Final Thought: Even though, for some people, this entire film may feel
like a retelling of its predecessor, only with the characters being a
little bit older and the addition of Rock, the "2 Day" premise (as a
whole) is still a very strong one that hasn't gotten old yet. In my
opinion, even if all of the jokes are based on the familiar lost in
translation sequences, Delpy's joke writing is so strong that through
her films audiences can see the blueprints of what a good culture clash
romantic comedy is suppose to look like. Long story short, if you are
trying to decide between going to see "2 Days in New York" or "To Rome
with Love", I'll put it to you this way: interracial relationships all
the way.

Written by Markus Robinson, Edited by Nicole I. Ashland Follow me on
Twitter @moviesmarkus
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this last night and could not stop laughing. It is difficult to
keep pacing throughout a movie but this movie does that and keeps you
laughing throughout. While other reviewers seem offended by the antics
of the French family, many of us in the audience nodded realizing we
all have those crazy members in the family who left under their own
devices act insane.

Chris Rock plays the straight man in this movie which is a refreshing
change of pace. The chemistry of the cast is evident throughout in how
familiar they are with one another and how comfortable the actors seems
to be. It is easy to believe that you have walked into a crazy family
dynamic. The storyline is quirky and plot a little light but the laugh
out loudness of this movie more than makes up for it.
