
It seems like only yesterday that I watched Kick-Ass on the screen...
but 3 years in reality, it definitely called for a sequel! Kick-Ass 2
is a fantastic sequel to the original Kick-Ass and in my opinion it is
near enough up to scratch with the ratings with the original.

After the death of D'Amico in the first film, his son Chris decides to
leave the life of Red Mist behind and make a new start with the alias
The Motherf**ker with one aim, to kill Kick-Ass.

Kick-Ass is full of intense action and hilarious comedy, it is one of
the best mixes and on par with other action-comedy films such as Hot
Fuzz, 21 Jump Street and Tropic Thunder! From the variety of super
heroes brought together by Jim Carrey's Captain Stars & Stripes to the
frequent obscenities from 15-year old HitGirl, Kick-Ass is an enjoyable
film for fans of comedy, action and the superhero films! A graphic yet
hilarious adventure.
<|_=00=_|>
There's a scene in Kick-Ass 2 where one of Dave's only friends who
hasn't quite got into the whole "real life superheroes" act yet finally
joins them in an outfit that is basically an inversion of Dave's
yellow-and-green jumpsuit and tries to choose his name. All he can come
up with is variations like "Ass Kick!" and "The Asskicker" to which
Dave and his other friend understandably roll their eyes. He later
changes sides completely.

Remember that awful movie that the Daily Mail reviewed and accidentally
called Kick-Ass? That's what Kick-Ass 2 is really a sequel to. It's so
much a pale interpretation of what some terrible people thought the
first movie was (and I'm afraid one of those people may be the series'
creator, Mark Millar, who quite famously reads the Daily Mail) that it
may as well be titled one of those awful unimaginative names Dave's
friends comes up with.

I was actually fine with the awful clangers early on in this movie the
Austin Powers-esque, "she sure had some big guns" followed by a shot of
someone carrying some actual big guns towards the camera, the blatant
descriptive gags like "his baton is so much bigger than Kick-Ass's
baton means cock, by the way" the desperate attempts to be current
with Mother F**ker spouting his plans to basically tear the world down
and then saying, "I gotta tweet about this!"

I could deal with all this because I didn't expect much from this movie
except for Hit Girl to be awesome. I really thought they couldn't mess
that up because she's such an indestructible character. There's an
early line where she tells her foster father, "I've done more in 15
years of my life than most adults have done in all of theirs," and it
should ring hard for anyone over 30. Even part of the sequence I'm
about to talk about gives a fine glimpse of what Chloe Moretz's Carrie
might be like  in short, it might work, she shows the kind of
vulnerability I didn't ever expect to see in such a face  a face that,
if I described honestly, I'd probably be taken in by Yewtree

But it's in that middle sequence, the bulk of Moretz's strangely short
screen time (she was the highlight of the first movie and even the
negative reviews of this one single her out  I'm afraid I can't even
be that generous), where this movie really lost me entirely. It begins
as a strange Mean Girls knock-off with Mindy (Hit Girl) quite
inexplicably going along with a plan to make her "like other girls",
passing through a strange slumber party scene where she basically gets
horny for the first time watching a "Union J" video (I was surprised to
find this cheesy looking band, looking as fake as everything else in
this movie, is actually real  and Chloe Moretz is a fan, forcing me to
assume it's her doing), and proceeding to a clichéd looking jock
taking her on her first date (her foster father, so protective, seems
to be fine with this) that for a horrible second I thought was going to
lead into some kind of rape (I forget if the other "rape" scene happens
before or after this  I'm not even gonna talk about that 'cos it's
been mentioned plenty elsewhere). Instead she is met by her fellow
school pals and then deserted. HURTFUL! This whole middle act story
ends with Mindy strolling into school dressed like all the other
shallow girls and prodding them with an invention of Big Daddy from the
first movie  a stick that makes them throw up and diarrhoea at the
same time, which looks more like vanilla and chocolate pudding coming
out of both ends. It was at this point that if you'd photographed me
you'd have seen a face that looked a little like when Eric Cartman's
funny bone broke in "South Park".

It's not that I'm offended by this stuff. If you know me, you know
this. And I knew that under any other circumstance I would've found it
tear-inducingly funny. There was just something about the way it was
done, and the context, that kind of paralysed me. It was just so 
pointless.

Jim Carrey disowned this movie because of the violence after Sandy Hook
etc. He'd've done better just saying he was embarrassed at how it
turned out. I heard there was a post-credits scene at the end of
Kick-Ass 2, but I left as soon as the screen went black and I wished
for once I was the kind of person who leaves earlier sometimes. Frankly
unless that post-credits scene was Ashton Kutcher saying "you've been
punk'd!", I think at least I saved some of my time the day I saw this.
It's not offensive, it's just embarrassing. The only good thing is that
it'll make you realise just how classy the first movie was. Jane
Goldman and Matthew Vaughn, you are sorely missed
<|_=00=_|>
If there's one impression that Kick-Ass 2 left with me, it's this; This
is one damn-fun movie, and a damn-fun franchise. 

This movie is also pretty ambitious - there's a hell of a lot going on
throughout this whole film, but they find a great way to balance all of
the different angles going on, without overloading you at any time.
Versatile is the word that comes to mind...let's run through the main
points:

Pros: 

- Great casting, and solid acting. Don't expect any nominations, but it
seems that every character has just the right actor for the job. Aaron
Traylor-Johnson has clearly put a lot of work into this, because it
looks like he's been working out with Chris Hemsworth and the rest of
the Avengers. Chloë Grace Moretz is the perfect "Hit-Girl". Christopher
Mintz-Plasse nails his character. Jim Carrey is great. John Leguizamo
is in this! That guy deserves more work. And the movie deserves an
award just for even coming up with a character named "Mother Russia". 

- ACTION SEQUENCES. The 1st movie executed these to perfection, and the
sequel follows suit. A great mix of high-level, slightly over-the-top
martial arts action, lower-level brawling fights, gun play, high-speed
chases, and even some explosions! And the soundtrack for these
sequences deserves a mention. (When you have the previously-mentioned
"Mother Russia" on a rampage, and a remix of the damn theme song from
"Tetris" is playing in the background...you've won.) 

- This movie is damn funny. You will laugh. 

- Surprisingly emotional! There are a few scenes here and there that
might just pull a heart string...they don't feel overly cheezy, and fit
right in with the story...even the "Mean Girls" scenes.

Cons: 

- ........ ***thinking hard*** ...if I had to nit-pick, I could say
that the movie almost goes too fast through a pretty major part. The
movie is pretty fast paced throughout, but it might feel like a
particular event may have deserved a bit more time to dwell on. 

- Jim Carrey and John Leguizamo could have been utilized more. They
were both great, but with so much going on here, it may have been tough
to squeeze an extra scene or two for them.

Now, the inevitable comparison: how does it compare to the original? If
I had to make a choice, I've got the take the original over this one.
That's not a knock on this sequel - it's very worthy of the franchise.
But the original was so epic, that matching it was always going to be a
challenge. I'll say this though...the sequel comes pretty damn close,
and which one you prefer may easily be different from my choice.

Overall, this is a damn good time at the movies...dammit. (I've just
now noticed how many times I've used that word in this review...damn.)
Get your popcorn and your snacks, get your seats, kick back, and kick
some ass.

Kick-Ass 2 scores a 4.25 out of 5 on the BDBOS. Good job.

STAY THROUGH THE CREDITS!!! There's a bonus scene at the end that you
will get a kick out out. Well..maybe "kick" isn't the right word to
use...you'll see what I mean... :)

(Hey there. Thanks for reading all of this. Really. Having your
eyeballs all over this means the world to me. Especially those sexy
eyeballs of yours. They're spectacular. Do you work them out? It looks
like it. Listen, I'm not just trying to sweet-talk you into
thumb-upping my review, or talk you into stopping by my page
(www.facebook.com/TheBDBOS), because that would be cheap. I'm just
saying that if there was a sexy-eyeball pageant somewhere, you'd easily
make the top 3. Have you ever thought about modeling? You should. You'd
be great at it. In fact, I may know a guy...)
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a huge fan of the first Kick Ass film and the comics, so I'm a
tough fan to please but this film exceeded my expectations! In a year
full of over-hyped superhero films Kick Ass 2 came along with a low
budget, no contracted actors roped in and R rating and gave me the most
entertaining hour and 40 minutes I've paid for all year!

Excellent acting all round especially from Jim Carrey and Chloe Moretz,
this film doesn't copy and paste the first but stays close enough to it
cinematically that the new director takeover isn't largely noticeable. 

I don't understand why the film hasn't been rated better, 10 out of 10
from me. Super on all levels!
<|_=00=_|>
Fiction is a vehicle capable of transporting the reader, the viewer
across spaces fantastic, gulfs of the never before expected - indeed on
a journey limited only by the fuel of storyteller's imagination. As
readers of novel's, watchers of movies we fiction addicts have crossed
some strange territory, toured places dark as they were fascinating.
Thanks to the minds of writers and film makers, we've transcended death
and lived scores of made-up lives alongside countless characters of
every stripe and in doing so, often found some small unpolished gleam
we'd overlooked in our own realities waiting for us after we've put
down that page turner or exited the theater.

Despite the wild turn of the writer's imagination which so often
effectively convinces us to abandon the laws of our mundane world for a
temporary belief of the one he's created for us, the best fiction
anchors itself to, firmly grounds itself in the real and in doing so
makes those crazy daydream flights of the impossible we take with the
storyteller, all the more impactful because before dropping us off in
Metropolis or Gotham City, the best fiction makes us first journey
through the world we live in everyday to get there.

'Kick Ass 2' barrages the viewer for one hundred and three minutes with
scenarios so implausible, the world it is set in - an actual city -
serves only to mock its take after take on the ridiculously imagined
capabilities of its characters and both theirs and its minor players'
reactions to just about every hysterically nonsensical act of violence
committed.

The writer without realization gives his work a life of its own, an
ability to transport those who consume his story again and again to
places glazed with reality or wholly fictional, to meet people who only
exist within the confines of those realms and thereafter within us, his
audience. Unfortunately, these days and perhaps since storytelling has
been around to some extent, the story strives hardest to justify
itself, to celebrate its own existence and to quickly hammer down its
justification for mass distribution.

What a given lover of fiction finds amazing will indeed often vary from
viewer and reader to viewer and reader - such goes without much
thought. However, certain themes and depictions stories intimate to us,
show us can be universally judged as good or terrible. Perhaps not so
in a generational context as what one age group celebrates, another
will find disgusting.

In 'Kick Ass 2' most every theme and visual intimation is arguably a
turn-off - unless you've while viewing it - turned of your wits,
intellect and moral compass. The violence in and of itself is not the
issue ... this reviewer is a horror, science fiction, action film
fanatic which requires a hardy appetite for tragedy and violence. The
problem with 'Kick Ass 2' is its exploitation of the innocent as
vehicles for its smut, and depiction of kids as engines of homicidal or
bone breaking destruction.

The message 'Kick Ass 2' tells its viewers (millions of kids out there)
that slaughtering other human beings - if they're the bad guys - is
morally acceptable and cool. The film has its main characters break
oaths, take new ones and break them as well and then its narrative
attempts to justify the lies, deceit and misdirection as a setup for
bloodshed by adolescents.

That's all pretty heavy, right? Most would defend the message or the
plot of the film as being just for fun. Unfortunately the movie takes
itself very seriously despite the ceaseless gallows humor, and it
really adores itself for what it is - a knock-off of a gory action film
targeted at teens and even younger kids.

Sure, I watched all the R rated horror and action movies I could rent
and sneak into the VCR when I was a kid. Did all the gore and violence
really scar my young mind? Probably not. However the vast majority of
the gory, nasty Hollywood output of the eighties was not targeted at
kids, nor did it depict kids carrying it out. It's a new thing, and I
don't much care for it.

Yes, 'Kick Ass 2' will entertain you to a varying degree and based on
your age, will either feel like a guilty glimpse into the tactless
future of the action genre and film making in general, or will look
really awesome, dude.

Give this one a pass, unless you want gawk guiltily at a movie
equivalent of a grisly car accident.
<|_=00=_|>
Kick Ass is one of my favourite films. It's clever, funny, original and
gets all of its various elements just right. It scores on every level
and is in my view the very best superhero film there is. OK, it's not
as good as the Dark Knight films but you know... it's different, it's
self aware. It's the anti-superhero film par excellence.

This film is about as far from the original Kick Ass as it is possible
to be. It should be called "Sucks Ass". I have no idea what happened in
the writing and production of this film but they managed to lose almost
every semblance of wit that was in the first film and they have
replaced that with a load of over the top Tarantino-esque violence, and
a few knob gags.

I had heard this film was not as good as the first, but nothing
prepared me for the turgid awfulness of what I watched tonight. I was
watching the diabolical end "fight" through my fingers as the sheer
mind-numbing terribleness of it had me involuntarily face-palming. I'm
not even going to bother mentioning the plot (was there one?), but
let's just say this film veers haphazardly from mindless blockbuster
action smash right through to cheesy teenage school chick flick and
back without ever managing to entice a giggle.

Remember "With no power comes no responsibility"?! Yeah, that made me
guffaw with laughter too. Even the opening suicide smash of the
original Kick Ass has more humour than this entire film and all it's
terrible "jerk off" jokes combined.

Awful awful awful. The only reason I'm giving it three stars instead of
one is erm... well I don't even know. I guess the stuff that has been
shamelessly copied still half works, such as the music (songs all used
in exactly the same places etc) but aside from that there are almost no
redeeming features.

I now see very clearly why Jim Carrey wanted to disassociate himself
from this film. It wasn't because of the violence. It's because its a
terrible, terrible film.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved the first one and have been waiting for this with great
anticipation! When I saw it on Comcast On-Demand I immediately rented
it. Like most sequels, this wasn't as good as the first and it's hard
not to make comparisons to the first movie. 

The first thing I noticed was the lack of a good soundtrack that went
with the first movie. Scenes like Hit-Girl whooping ass to Joan Jett's
"Bad Reputation", or the old Banana Splits song "Tra La La" Song
totally made the first one awesome for me. The soundtrack was as
important as the characters. 

As the movie was unfolding I kept waiting for some funny/rocking music
to play. Unfortunately, I was pretty let down that they didn't spend
the money to acquire some interesting/funny/rocking songs for this
movie. 

Then the plot was sort of handicapped by the fact the characters had
matured. I felt the actors all did a good job, but the built in humor
that came along with an innocent naive Kick-Ass character getting his
butt beat, or the irony of a 10 year old foul mouthed girl killing
someone with the same zeal she would pursue a boy band with was gone. 

I think they spent a little to much time developing the idea of a group
of super hero's and and not enough time developing Kick-Ass & Hit-Girl
characters. Overall, I liked it, and I'm sure most will... It just
wasn't as fresh and new as the original.
<|_=00=_|>
What had made Kick-Ass so special was its ability to sustain an
interesting story both for the audiences who are and who are not
willing to delve into the deeper aspects of what makes a film truly
shine. Kick-Ass 2, on the other hand, seemingly aimed only to satisfy
those who are not willing to dig. (But not entirely; I will get into
that later). Simply put, if you walk into movies to see action, blood,
and a whole lot of style, you will absolutely love Kick-Ass 2. However,
if you walk into movies to see interesting characters, a well paced
story, and a whole lot of substance, you will still admire Kick-Ass 2,
but forget about it very soon. While there are few aspects from the
deeper end of the spectrum residing within this film, that does not
mean that they do not stand out and impress. Hit-Girl was a blast to
watch in the first film. But unfortunately, her new-found sensitivities
in this film seem to do nothing but take away from what mattered the
most about her character in the first place in exchange for a few
scenes of unnecessary high-school drama for the sake of developing a
character in all the wrong spots. In spite of this, one character who
stood out in a great way was Colonel Stars and Stripes who, in his mere
seven and a half minutes of screen time, was an enormous bundle of
interesting. Sadly, behind this among few more redeeming qualities lies
the issues that many will have a hard time ignoring. The antagonist,
who is notoriously known as The Motherf%#$er, is someone I found to be
very bland and out-of-place in the Kick-Ass film universe created by
the first film. Among a handful of humorous scenes he shared with
Javier lies something we see every day in teenage comedies. Something
worth forgetting about. Overall, Kick-Ass 2 is a great film for reasons
that a lot of audiences do not find a film great for. However, if you
allow it to take you to the spot it would like you to be (Which is a
different mindset than what you had while watching the first) you
should be in for a nice ride.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a huge fan of the first Kick-Ass movie; it was fun, action packed,
and even had a few emotional sequences thrown in for good measure. I
went into the sequel expecting the same feel of the first one to be
present, but just a continuation of the story. That, unfortunately, was
where I was horribly wrong.

Lots and lots of spoilers for Kick-Ass 2 below...

Alright, so it starts off pretty good, with Hit-Girl and Kick-Ass
training to be a crime fighting duo. I'm excited about this...I would
be cool with a movie entirely about KA and HG putting down bad guys.
But then HG makes a promise to Marcus, her guardian and protector since
her father died, and subsequently stops being a super hero and spends
the rest of the movie trying to fit in with teenage 'mean girls' super
clique b**ches. Um, what?? Which then leaves her and KA's interaction
through the rest of the movie to essentially him begging her to come
back and be a hero and she repeating over and over again why she can't.
They literally have this conversation like five times.

Don't even get me started on the "Sick Stick" she uses to get her
revenge on the girls at school. It's a cool weapon in theory, but the
graphic portrayal of its use in the middle of a high school cafeteria
was repulsive and completely unnecessary.

Here's something I never thought I would say; I wish Jim Carrey had
been in the movie more. His character actually seemed like it could be
pretty interesting; hints about a spec ops past, an attitude that
borders (well, maybe more than borders...) psychotic, like he could
easily push being a hero too far. Even though it is a cliché story, I
would have much rather seen his character devolve into a morally grey
killer as the villain than what was given to us with Christopher
Mintz-Plasse.

I liked Chris in the first movie, teenage son to a powerful mob boss
trying to figure out where he fits, but still with some sense of moral
integrity. None of that is seen here; so consumed with Kick Ass after
the masked hero killed his father with a bazooka, he dons his mothers
S&M outfit and becomes the first supervillain, the Mother F****er. Yep.
That's right. I'm sure this is supposed to be funny, but they portray
him as too dark, violent, and serious while trudging around in leather
and chains for me to feel anything but nausea during every scene he is
in.

I missed Nicholas Cage. Another thing I never thought I would say.

Character's do things for no reason throughout the whole movie, the
dialogue is terrible, the movie is just awful. It's redeeming qualities
are few and far between, and not enough to make it worth a viewing.
There is a lot more about this movie that upsets me (like Dave's gf
from the first movie breaking up with him because she thought he and
Hit-Girl were sleeping together...??) but I think I have probably said
more than enough.

Watch the first Kick-Ass, it is awesome. Give this one a wide berth.
<|_=00=_|>
If the first Kick-Ass movie was that cool cousin, who's a bit rough
around the edges and definitely a badass, then this film is that young
brat, who tries to imitate said cousin, but only partly succeeds.

The first Kick-Ass film had a few good things going for it. It had a
completely new take on the superhero genre, it skillfully juggled both
effective comedy and brutally violent action scenes, plus it had some
pretty convincing characters and a dark storyline. The sequel, on the
other hand, fails at the juggling part. The action scenes are still
pretty brutal and effective, but the humour lacks that razor sharp edge
that made the first one so believable despite its premise. Instead it
relies on racial stereotypes and potty humour, which just isn't that
funny.

Add in a lackluster storyline that honestly feels like watching tennis.
First one character has a change of heart, then few minutes later
he/she bounces back and another character decides to change his/her
opinion, immediately after which the first one changes his/her stand.
Rinse and repeat. A compelling and captivating story this does not
make, especially when the villain generates mostly embarrassed
facepalms and the final battle rejuvenates some of the first clichés
the first film so artfully dodged.

That being said, the production values are still excellent, some of the
new characters are pretty interesting (though there's way too many of
them), I still like both Kick-Ass (Aaron Taylor-Johnson) and Hit-Girl
(Chloë Grace Moretz) and they had some really good scenes together. If
you liked the first film and want to see the storyline continued, this
one is worth checking out if you're not expecting miracles.
