
"I just tend the bar," Bob Saginowski innocently states in this under-
the-radar gem of a film. Tom Hardy plays Bob, a quiet, reserved
bartender at his cousin Marv's bar. Cousin Marv is played by James
Gandolfini in his final role. The Drop is getting a lot of attention
because of Gandolfini, who gives another memorable performance, but The
Drop is much more than an opportunity to see one our generation's
greatest actors one last time, it's one of the best films of the year. 

In The Drop, Marv owns a local neighborhood bar that also happens to be
a "drop bar", which means the bar essentially collects money from
illegal betting and god knows what else and then delivers it to the
local Chechen gang. Gandolfini plays Marv as a Tony Soprano that never
was. A guy that tried to get into the game, but couldn't really cut it
when the big guys came into town. Those "big guys" are the Chechen mob
that have taken over Marv's bar. It's his bar in name only and he's
relegated to serving drinks and cleaning up spills. Gandolfini plays
Marv as a bitter, beaten down man. It's vintage Gandolfini and a
perfect way to end a career that was cut way too short.

As one actor takes his final bow, it's another actor who officially
arrives. The Drop is clearly Tom Hardy's film. Granted, Hardy certainly
hasn't come out of no where. He burst on the mainstream scene with
Inception and should have become a household name after his performance
as Bane in The Dark Knight Rises. He didn't, and I'm not really sure
why. He seemingly has everything you'd want in a leading man.

Hardy's performance in The Drop should finally change that. I know it's
early, but it's Oscar worthy. Hardy plays Bob with such an authentic
nature that it's downright astounding. He really inhabits this
character. Bob seems to take everything in stride, nothing seems to
bother him. When he is confronted by the Chechen mobsters, he keeps his
head down and chooses every word with precision, knowing that his life
depends on it. Bob is non-threatening and unassuming and almost comes
off as simple-minded, but as the film progresses, it's clear something
is brewing beneath the surface. Bob is an example of a guy who is a
product of his environment. He's a good man that doesn't really have a
choice in life. He either adapts to survive or dies.

Bob also has a big heart as is evidenced when he rescues a puppy that
has been beaten and literally thrown in the trash. This is where he
meets Nadia, played by Noomi Rapace (Prometheus). Nadia is also
reserved and seems wounded in some way. It makes sense that The Drop is
written by Dennis Lahane (writer of Mystic River, Gone Baby Gone and
Shutter Island) who adapted the film from his short story "Animal
Rescue," a title with more than one meaning. Not only does Bob rescue
an injured dog, but both he and Nadia seem like animals that need
rescuing in one way or another.

The Drop is the kind of film that Hollywood just doesn't make anymore.
It really does feel like it was ripped right out of the 80's. It has a
slow, deliberate pace that perfectly builds suspense. The Drop is a
character driven film that constructs each scene with great dialogue
and fantastic acting. The director allows his characters to inhabit the
world they live in. It's the wardrobe and the set design that really
help bring everything together and add to the authenticity of the film.
Everything seems organic and not like it's part of a movie set.

The Drop is a film lovers film. It has everything you could possibly
ask for: a top notch cast, great direction, dialogue, set design,
cinematography, and an understated score. You name it, and The Drop has
it. It's easily one of my favorite films of the year. We need more
films like The Drop. Go see it.
<|_=00=_|>
The Drop is a dark, brooding crime film starring Tom Hardy and the late
James Gandolfini. Directed by MikaÃ«l Roskam, this film focuses on Bob,
a low level shy bartender at Cousin Marv's. The bar is a "drop bar" in
which the mob's money gets laundered there. While this does sound like
the story to The Drop, it isn't. The film is much more a character
study first about Bob and his back story. What this film does
beautifully is show the progression of the story strictly through
casual dialog, explaining why Bob is the way he is. Our first clue to
Bob's back story is a subtle hint as he attends church and does not
accept the communion offering. A recurring theme throughout the film is
the idea of how a sin can weigh your conscious down. Some of this is
heavy handed and others are very subtle and mostly through something as
small as a glare from Tom Hardy or a sigh from James Gandolfini. Quite
frankly, without these amazing performances from everyone across the
board, this film would more than likely sink after the first 30
minutes. The entire cast from Tom Hardy, James Gandolfini, Noomi
Repace, Matthias Schoenaerts, John Ortiz, they are all in top form
here. There is not one hollow or fake performance, they are all pitch
perfect and really pull together to mend the story and progress it very
well. The real stand out is Tom Hardy though, who continuously keeps
turning in really well, thoughtful and master class performances, The
Drop is no exception. Gandolfini also gives a fitting final performance
here and knocks it out of the park. Watching him on the screen is
rather haunting in a bittersweet way. Roskam seems to rely heavily on
letting his actors work without every manipulating a scene with high
tech camera work or any camera movement at all. This is a straight
forward film filled with actual characters that feel alive and feel
vulnerable and at any moment their life could end in this world that
Roskam creates. This isn't the hipster Brooklyn that Brooklyn has
seemingly become lately, this is Roskam's Brooklyn and its a cold land
without any glorification. The screenplay by Dennis Lehane is top
notch, establishing plot points by sprinkling them across the entire
film before finally concluding in a twisted but necessarily dark ending
that ties everything together. While this does work for the most part,
it does feel a bit muddled in second act as if the story is in some
sort of limbo, but it quickly gets back on track in no time. The film
does have its lighter moments within dialog and scenes with Rocco the
pitbull puppy, but for the most part this a really dark film with an
equally gritty scenery. Overall, The Drop is a tense and gritty crime
film with an amazing cast that doesn't miss a beat. I highly recommend
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I felt compelled to write this review because I was fortunate enough to
see this movie at an advance screening, and because I do not think the
movie will be around long.

The reason I think it will not be around long is because this movie is
for adults. It is character driven with a well written storyline. It
does not have anything that would appeal to most movie goers....no car
chases, moronic humor, or gratuitous sex. The Drop starts slow, but you
have to pay attention to what goes on in the movie, and what the
characters both do and say. It picks up speed and intensity, and is
well worth your time.

The storyline is a very interesting underworld crime caper, but it is
very nuanced, with excellent acting by all the leads. I was only
familiar with the late James Gandolfini, and he does not disappoint,
and the other actors, although unknown to me were also outstanding.
<|_=00=_|>
There are a lot of films that fall into the same sort of "ilk" in the
sense that when we watch a particular movie, it gives us the same feel
as others we have seen before it. This can be a reason why someone
really enjoys it or gives the pretentious "it wasn't very original"
remark that makes you never watch a movie with that fool again. "The
Drop" brings out similar feelings, primarily because it has the feel of
many other works of the author (and writer of the script) Dennis Lehane
who is famous for works such as "Mystic River", "Shutter Island", and
"Gone Baby Gone". Right away you get a feel for those previous works as
we are again introduced to a gritty, seedy, and corrupt underbelly of a
big city environment that introduces us to a bunch of low lifes who are
caught up in doing the wrong things just to "make something of
themselves".

What makes "The Drop" different from some of these other films is that
these are different characters compared to what we're used to. No one
seems to be a big talker and we can tell that all of these characters
are more than meets the eye and carry significant baggage from a
checkered past. Most films that deal organized crime and other things
ask us to witness the violence that just seems to "come with the
territory" so to speak with it. This film asks us instead to imagine
the potential for violence in a man and how brief releases of that
violence can affect how these characters live their lives in the
future. There are moments of violence and bloodshed, but they come in
such short and intense instances that they hit you harder then violence
might normally would in another film of this sort. You believe that any
of these characters is capable of beating another ones head in and when
something of that sort actually happens, it sticks with you and has a
lasting effect that carries throughout the remainder of the film.

The story follows Bob Saginowski (Tom Hardy) and his Cousin Marv (the
last film of the late James Gandolfini) who run what's known as a drop
bar which simply mean that they serve as a place where mobsters leave
large amounts of illegal money to pick up at a later date. Cousin Marv
used to be a man of his own power in the organized crime world and
briefly had his own crew before he was pushed aside by an incoming
Chechen gang and now he just manages the bar with Bob. 10 years has
passed sense this change but Marv is still as bitter as ever about his
position in life. Gandolfini excels in roles like this for so many
reasons. Of course we see a little Tony Soprano in Cousin Marv but he
brings so much else to this role from his tone of voice, expression
with his eyes, and physical presence that makes the performance that
much more captivating. It's great to watch him be able to display that
intimidation factor as the "tough guy" that Marv wants to be seen as,
as well as the fear and weakness that really exists in his
heart.....all being shown through his eyes. It's the kind of
performance that has a low-key profoundness that makes you hope the
academy rewards a posthumous Oscar nomination.

Hardy is no less brilliant here as the quiet and mysterious Bob. Bob is
not a big talker and just lives quietly in his own little bubble
tending bar and handling the drop. His life is changed when he finds a
wounded puppy in the trash can outside of the damaged Nadiya's (Noomi
Rapace) house. They both decide to take care of the dog together as a
potential budding romance threatens to grow. Bob has almost an instant
connection with the dog, a young pitbull, and you begin to notice
similarities between the two as the film progresses. Bob makes a
comment that a pitbull is a "dangerous dog" which is true, but almost
seems impossible to think when you see them as puppies. Bob can be
looked at the same way as the puppy in the sense of he seems harmless
but there is the potential for danger and violence deep inside both of
them. I've always found it amazing how well British actors can master
American accents compared to the other way around. Hardy especially is
a master of accents and the way he handles his blue collar, Brooklyn
speak is amazing to watch as we follow the mysterious Bob throughout
the film, always wondering what he is thinking and what he really is
about.

The other stand out performance in the film comes from Matthias
Shoenaerts as the loose cannon, Eric Deeds. Shoenaerts brings a level
of intensity that is so palpable that you often become uneasy when he
is on screen. He spends the majority of the film claiming that Bob's
new dog is his and that he wants him back, as we all are questioning
what he is really after. Shoenaerts is a rising star for sure and I
can't wait to see him continue to show what he's capable of a bigger
stage. 

In the end, "The Drop" is most likely going to be one of those early
fall gems that falls by the wayside after a few weeks in theaters and
is unfortunately forgotten about due to poor marketing. However, it
also could be one of those small festival films that develops a cult
following after people realize how good it is for being a slightly
slower paced thriller that delivers great performances and a good
story. In a way, that almost fits perfectly into the makeup of these
characters who live in this world. Great and powerful things in small
and low-key packages
<|_=00=_|>
Holy Moly, I see people talking about no one in the theater for this
and I know why, no trailers no advertising at all. I look everything up
before I go, as soon as I saw IMDb reviews and Gandolfini I knew I was
in. It's a dark twisty movie with equally dark and twisty characters.
There were gangsters and good guys and bad guys. However they are
anything BUT cookie cutter, run of the mill, you have seen this all
before good guys and bad guys. There are explanations' you see how some
of them end up the way they do, its not black and white. Crazy
outwardly isn't the most crazy in the room. The most violent characters
can also be some of the most kind. There is no typical in this film. It
draws you in and never lets you go. Keeps you guessing till the end.
<|_=00=_|>
This is best movie I have seen this year so far. There I said it. I go
see about 30-40 movies per year on average and this is the best one in
2014. Now that that is out of the way, here is why.

The movie is so solid through out, the acting is stellar and it builds
tension to a very satisfying ending. This was also written by Dennis
Lehane (Mystic River, Gone Baby Gone, Shutter Island) so you know it
has to be good right? Right.

It reminds me a little of "A History of Violence" in that it builds the
tension very nicely and you know that some where down the line violence
is going to happen, but when, how and why?

I am really sad that James Gandolfini is no longer with us, he is such
a presence in the film. Tom Hardy is the best actor I can think of in
today's era, I just buy into anything he is selling, he simmers here.

After a summer of mindless action flicks, go see something with some
meat, great performances and a great screenplay. This is a very good
drama, well worth your $12.00.
<|_=00=_|>
'THE DROP': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

Crime-thriller about a bartender who finds himself in trouble, with
dangerous criminals, when the bar he works at, which is a 'money drop'
for local gangsters, is robbed. It's based on the short story 'Animal
Rescue' by Dennis Lehane (who also wrote such popular novels, turned
movies, as 'MYSTIC RIVER', 'GONE BABY GONE' and 'SHUTTER ISLAND').
Lehane also wrote the screenplay and MichaÃ«l R. Roskam directed the
movie. The film stars Tom Hardy, Noomi Rapace, John Ortiz, Matthias
Schoenaerts (who also starred in Roskam's 2011 crime-drama flick
'BULLHEAD') and James Gandolfini (in his last film role). I found the
movie to be really dark but extremely involving and suspenseful, at
times, as well.

Hardy plays Bob Saginowski; a Brooklyn bartender who works for his
cousin Marv (Gandolfini) at a local tavern. The bar is involved in a
money laundering scheme, run by local gangsters, and used as a 'money
drop' for funneling dirty cash. When it's robbed, apparently by small
time crooks, Bob and Marv find themselves under a lot of pressure (from
the crime bosses) to find out who did it. At the same time Bob rescues
a dog, that was beaten and left for dead in someone's trash can, and
starts a relationship with the woman, Nadia (Rapace), who helps him. A
detective (Ortiz), who goes to the same (closing) catholic church as
Bob, is investigating the robbery.

The movie, like everything based on Dennis Lehane's writings, is pretty
dark. Hardy is outstanding once again; he's arguably the most talented
male actor in film today. He's also the relatable heart of the film but
even his character has a dark twist. All of the performances are good
though and it's nice to see Gandolfini doing what he does best, one
last time, as well. The directing is superb and the screenplay is, of
course, brilliant. I think the movie is exactly what most viewers are
expecting it to be, that are familiar with Lehane's work, and Hardy
makes it even that much more memorable and classic!

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://youtu.be/Xz0GNkin4cw
<|_=00=_|>
Woke up this morning thinking about it like a memory that was real.
Sometimes I see one of these back east movies where the location is
perfect, and the characters are perfect, and it haunts me like a past
life. It's not about the story, though this one was great, it's the
look and feel of time, place, and people. Whew. 

Any more said would spoil this movie.

.Don't let anyone spoil it for you. Go in blind. Don't let anyone spoil
it for you. Go in blind. Don't let anyone spoil it for you. Go in
blind. Don't let anyone spoil it for you. Go in blind. Don't let anyone
spoil it for you. Go in blind.
<|_=00=_|>
Michael R. Roskam burst onto the scene a few years back with "Bullhead"
which was deservedly nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign
Language Film. 

In his first English language, American film, Roskam works with a
script by the great author Dennis Lehane to tell the story of Brooklyn
bartender Bob, waitress Nadia, has-been Cousin Marv, and the mysterious
Eric Deeds. 

The plot of "The Drop" has been done before to various degrees, and
Lehane's script was surprisingly predictable. Although the material
wasn't particularly fresh, the actors and a few strong scenes make it
worthwhile.

Hardy, although a bit inconsistent, delivers a quietly great
performance. You just want to give the guy a hug. Gandolfini is
unsurprisingly fantastic in his final big screen performance. He plays
to perfection a middle aged has-been that's ticked off with what his
life has become. The direction they took with his character was
predictable and left me very disappointed, but I'm happy that his last
performance was this good. Noomi Rapace arguably gave the best
performance in the film, and probably the best supporting actress I've
seen so far this year. She does a great job playing a damaged woman
trying to lead a good life, and her scenes with Hardy (and the dog!)
are some of the best of the movie. Schoenaerts (who was sensational in
Roskam's Bullhead) is good, but not given too much to do with a
one-dimensional character. And the dog! Rocco! One of the all-time
great dog performances in my opinion.

The movie is also really funny at times (mainly Gandolfini in the first
half hour and Hardy with the dog). It drags a bit at times, and like I
said above the script could have been a lot better.... but it's still a
very good movie that easily could have been a great one with a few
changes. I'll still see it again, and I'm sure it will stay in my top
10 of the year.

And as a huge fan of James Gandolfini, I'm sad to say this is the last
time we'll ever see him on the big screen. But I'm happy that Roskam
did him justice with one last great performance. RIP to one of the
all-time greats.
<|_=00=_|>
Bob Saginowski(Tom Hardy), is a sort of down, but not quite out, kind
of guy. Maybe even slow. He and his cousin, Marv(James Gandofini) run a
mob owned, NYC neighborhood bar. The bar, once Marv's, is now a "drop"
(as in the movie title) because the mob often parks its daily take
there. Bob's life is complicated. He sort of watches over his cousin,
Marv, who's still not happy about losing ownership of the bar years ago
and still schemes foolishly. Bob also takes care of a puppy he finds in
the garbage. Neighbor,Nadia(Noomi Repace), helps with the puppy, and
slowly falls for Bob. Unfortunately the puppy's owner and Nadia's wacko
ex-boyfriend, Eric Deeds(Matthias Schoenaerts), is not happy about
this. The mob is also not happy after its money is stolen. What will
Bob do? Therein lies the well crafted story. 

This movie is great entertainment. More than that, it's great movie
making. The writing, directing, acting, camera work are first class.
But the story is what really shines. Based on a short story (Animal
Rescue) by Dennis Lehane it's got all the ingredients we crave: flawed
good guy, flawed beauty, really bad guys, and and a superb ending. You
might say it's all very predictable, but maybe not.

The Drop is a juicy, violent slice of urban Americana. Does everyone
get what they deserve? Ya gotta see it to find out. See it also for the
last performance of James Gandolfini, which should not be missed.
