
Seeing the original 'How to Train Your Dragon' for the first time made
me feel like a kid again and it has since become one of my all-time
favorite films, so when I got a chance to see this, I was as much
worried as I was excited. In the past, some of the films I have
anticipated the most turned out to be the biggest disappointments, so I
took a deep breath and tried to lower my expectations going in. I
needn't have feared: I'm glad to report that Dean DeBlois has crafted a
beautifully animated tale that loses nothing of its predecessor's sense
of fun and adventure, while it enhances Hiccup's and Toothless' journey
into an almost classic - and unexpectedly touching - "coming-of-age"
story.

While still colourful, playful and visually all over the place (I mean
that in a good way*), the tone of the sequel is noticeably darker and
the predominant themes are more mature. The writers made some (for
Hollywood movies) unusually daring decisions in having Hiccup face very
tough realities in life; especially one about the danger of
over-humanizing pets and forgetting about their animal nature. Small
children had perhaps better stay away, since the film is also quite a
bit scarier than the original. That's not saying that there isn't a lot
of humour  but the wisecracks of Jonah Hill & Co. will most certainly
be lost on the very young and are clearly targeted towards older
children and teenagers. 

*A word about the animation: This is among the most visually stunning
animated films I have ever seen; at times, there is so much eye-popping
spectacle on screen that you don't know where to focus anymore - this
one definitely needs a second viewing.

My overall verdict: While the storyline may not be quite as
straightforward as the original's, the well written, credible character
development and the gorgeous visuals are more than satisfying. 'How to
Train Your Dragon 2' could have played it safe by merely repeating the
original's formula  it opted instead for the introduction of
fascinating new characters while giving the ones we know more
back-story and a chance to grow up and explore new territory. I would
say that next to 'Days of Future Past', this is one of the best sequels
Hollywood has produced in a very long time. 9 stars out of 10 (with the
option of a straight 10 once I've seen it again).

Favorite Films: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054200841/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
<|_=00=_|>
I picked up my future wife for a simple dinner and a movie date. We
hadn't picked out a movie yet as we had decided to choose at the
theater. Upon arriving, we saw that How To Train Your Dragon 2 was
selling it's 8:00-10:00 Thursday night showings. I'd completely
forgotten it was coming out Friday, so both of us, ecstatic, decided on
that movie. 

I went in expecting a great film. 

I came out blown away. 

I can honestly say I've never seen a sequel better than it's
predecessor, but How To Train Your Dragon 2 does nothing but improve
and top the first one. 

The music was the best I've heard in a very long time. The story
introduced so many things that was simply another piece of master
storytelling. The relationships in the movie, especially Toothless' and
Hiccup's, were written to their absolute strongest. 

After all the films I've seen, all the shows I've watched, all the
books I've read, I have never come across a friendship stronger than
Hiccup's and Toothless'. The way they write that relationship is just .
. . it's never been done before. 

The story itself is actually pretty simple and actually a really short
story, but it's a story you could tell the writer fell in love with.
And he brought this story to the best it can absolutely be. The villain
was chilling, the characters' outcomes were emotional, and the climax
will completely shake your soul. 

I have no complaints. No complaints at all. There is nothing I would
change about that film. Not a single thing. 

I just really hope they saved the best for last, because I don't know
how they're going to top it.
<|_=00=_|>
'How to Train Your Dragon' is my all-time favourite animated film, so
when I heard a sequel was being made, I knew it was one I had to see.
The last animated film I saw in the cinema was 'Toy Story 3' four years
ago, so going to see this beautifully executed flick was a treat. This
film truly lives up to its expectations and builds upon its
predecessor's achievements like any good sequel should, and from this,
the outcome is stunning. More mature and thematic than its predecessor,
'How to Train Your Dragon 2' is an emotionally resonant and heartfelt
flick that expands upon the story of Hiccup and Toothless and their
connection. With swooping and stunning visuals and epic animated set
pieces, this is a sequel to remember, a modern masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
Unfortunately the marketing for this film is subpar and misleading, as
it was for the first one. My best advice to you is ***AVOID THE
TRAILERS AT ALL COSTS. They include major spoilers to some very
emotional points in the film. 

This is another level of animated film, one that gracefully crosses
generational gaps and will speak volumes to any age group. Because of
the critical and audience acclaim of the beloved predecessor, many are
afraid that a sequel will not match the mastery of the first one, that
this would be created purely as a money-making gimmick, like many
Hollywood sequels. If these are your presumptions, you couldn't be more
wrong. This film is worthy of all the hopes and expectations you are
afraid to carry into the theater. DeBlois has told us a moving story,
one that won't be soon forgotten, that so many of us will connect with.
At Comic Con 2013, DeBlois said that this was "The Empire Strikes Back"
of the trilogy. That is a hefty promise, which he has successfully
delivered.

The world of HTTYD2 has been vastly expanded and explored, very little
of the film takes place on Berk. It is much more of an adventure film.
The film has taken everything from HTTYD to the next level: emotion,
intensity, action, adventure, humor, and depth. It takes risks I have
seen so few animated films take, full of twists and turns, that will
keep you engaged and invested.

For me the film could have had a stronger beginning, a few less
childish jokes, and a bit slower pacing (probably should have been
about 10 minutes longer). Other than some very nit-picky notes, that is
literally the worst that I can say about it.

HTTYD2 is a phenomenal film and will deservedly pick up the academy
award for best animated film of the year. John Powell, will again be
nominated (and hopefully win) for his inventively emotional score.

This was my most anticipated film of the past two years and it does not
disappoint. The four years of work on it show, as it is a polished
film. It is one of those rare films that inspires. And one of the few
that you walk out of the theater feeling so much emotion and thinking
"Gosh, I can't wait to see that again."
<|_=00=_|>
~NO SPOILERS~

How to Train your Dragon 2 is a shining example of what both family
movies and animated films are capable of. This is not the same story
rehashed over again. From the characters, to the drama, to the action,
to the comedy, this film does what any sequel should do by stepping up
its predecessor in every way possible, and respects its audience enough
not to shy away from its darker and more dramatic content, but still
remain viewable and entertaining for all audiences. We are talking
about a PG rated Dreamworks film after all. 

From the moment the music began playing during the beginning to when
the end credits began roiling, I was completely immersed in this
phenomenal movie that is more than worthy to stand along side the likes
of any great live-action fantasy film or the past decade. Possibly one
the the best animated movies I have ever seen, this is the Empire
Strikes Back of animated films. 

9/10 (Very possibly will increase to 10/10 upon my second viewing.)
<|_=00=_|>
As unlikely as it may seem, it is a Dreamworks animation that we had
most looked forward to this summer. Timed to coincide with the studio's
20th anniversary, the sequel to 2010's 'How to Train Your Dragon' could
not come at a more opportune time for the studio - entertaining as they
were, its more recent original works such as 'Rise of the Guardians',
'Turbo' and 'Mr Peabody and Sherman' have all underperformed at the box
office, and it could certainly do with a hit to boost flagging investor
confidence. But never mind that, the reason why we so eagerly
anticipated this follow-up is simply because of how unexpectedly
fascinating its predecessor turned out to be.

Yes, the story of a Viking teenager Hiccup who befriends the titular
creature Toothless and manages to convince his village that they are
friend not foe was not only a rare unadulterated crowd-pleaser, it also
packed some genuine emotional heft with its bittersweet ending. Like
how Toothless tends to do in the film, the big-screen adaptation of
Cressida Cowell's young-adult book series came out of nowhere and
charmed the socks off both adults and children alike, becoming one of
the biggest hits in the studio's history. And so co-writer and
co-director Dean DeBlois has returned to pen and helm this sequel set
five years after the events of the first movie - though this time, he
is going at it without his partner Chris Sanders.

Proving that two heads need not always be better than one, DeBlois'
solo venture is no less compelling than the first film, and indeed sees
the filmmaker demonstrate an imagination and derring-do which truly
makes it soar. In a most literal way, that is exactly what the opening
sequence delivers, which sees Hiccup's rowdy schoolmates - Snotlout
(Jonah Hill), Fishlegs (Christopher Mintz-Plasse), Tuffnutt (T.J.
Miller) and twin sister Ruffnut (Kristen Wiig) - participate in a
dragon-racing derby which resembles Quidditch but with dragons for
broomsticks and lambs for Snitches. It's an eye-popping and
heart-pumping prologue, followed almost immediately by another which
reunites us with Hiccup and Toothless, whose flighty adventures have
turned into discovering new lands.

It is on one of those explorations that both stumble onto a fortress
made from shards of ice created by none other than a dragon - not just
any other dragon though, but a Bewilderbeast, regarded as the most
venerable of the species who can easily command the authority of his
kind. Within that fortress too is a mysterious woman named Valka (Cate
Blanchett), who has dedicated the last 20 years of her life freeing
captured dragons and looking after them in the sanctuary under the care
and protection of a Bewilderbeast - and in case you've missed the
trailers, this woman also happens to be Hiccup's long-lost and
presumed- dead mother.

Instead of his stoic father Stoick (Gerard Butler), the emotional arc
here is between Hiccup and his mother, as well as to a surprisingly
poignant degree, between Hiccup's father and mother. DeBlois reserves
the tender quiet moments of his film for the reunion between mother and
child as well as husband and wife - in particular, a dance between
Butler and Blanchett around a fire to their wedding song is bound to
leave you misty-eyed - and makes sure that his film loses none of the
heart and humanity that made the earlier 2010 one deeply affecting.

The villain that Hiccup finds himself up against is a tyrant named
Drago (Djimon Hounsou), who believes that dragons are meant to be
enslaved and used against the opponents whom he oppresses. We leave you
to make the judgment whether Hiccup is being naïve or determined, but
suffice to say that he believes in his heart that he would be able to
convince Drago - as he did with the rest of his village - that dragons
could very well be man's best friends if we allow them to. DeBlois
plays Hiccup's naivety beautifully, culminating in some difficult
consequences that reflect a temerity for the sort of heavy dramatic
choices which would ultimately seal Hiccup's character transformation
and ensure it be a genuinely satisfying one for his audience. Take this
as a warning if you're a parent of a younger tot - it does get pretty
emotionally upsetting towards the end, but the payoff is also
undeniably rewarding.

The same can be said of each one of the cast and characters,
particularly for those who recall the earlier film. Without ever saying
a single word, Toothless still manages to be ceaselessly endearing,
embodying not only feline affection and playfulness this time round,
but a canine sense of loyalty to Hiccup. Each of the other dragons,
however brief their appearance, are also designed with attention to
personality. It is just as delightful to be reunited with the human
characters. Jay Baruchel captures nicely the transition of Hiccup from
teen to adulthood, and is just as appealing with America Ferrera as his
girlfriend Astrid. Butler brings tough and tender to Stoick and shares
some lovely chemistry with Blanchett in their emotive scenes together.

And if there were any doubt that the action were spectacular, well then
let us put them to rest. In two words, the film is visually dazzling,
and we're not talking about the cornucopia of creatures and backdrops.
DeBlois once again concocts some terrifyingly exhilarating sequences
here, which make ample use of 3D for maximum elation. It is a thrill-
ride all right, but more than just theme part excitement, this sequel
packs an emotional wallop that is both moving and uplifting at the same
time. If you loved the first film, you'll be sure that this second
entry into what is now planned as a trilogy more than brings this
animated franchise to new and exciting heights.
<|_=00=_|>
This sequel sucks, this sequel is inferior, this sequel is inferior. 
Yes, I once felt the same. BUT! It all changes after a ... R E W A T C 
H ...

The reason? in the first watch .. you can't help but compare to the 
first one.

The facing is too darn fast.

So much thing is going on. It is very busy.

In my first watch .. I too was disappointed to the movie. But, I give 
it another try and rewatch. Now that I know what will happen, Now that 
I know everything. I was able to keep up with the pacing and appreciate 
the beauty of this sequel. After I a rewatch, I finally see why people 
says this movie is an improvement.

So, if your disappointed .. REWATCH IT !! I guarantee you, it will help 
a lot. and if your wondering Why am I doing this? because HTTYD 
community is freaking small. I don't want fellow fans to lose their 
hope in this series.

It's not Frozen, It's not Disney, It's not Pixar. When Disney and Pixar 
release movies, everybody is excited. When dreamworks release movie .. 
WHO THE HELL CARES? .. I don't want HTTYD community to decrease. Who 
will support this series if the fans a gone? HTTYD is an amazing series 
and lets support it.


<|_=00=_|>
How to Train Your Dragon 2 follows the common rule of sequels by making
everything bigger, even though that isn't always enough to justify the
series. In fact, it usually leads the franchise into a disaster, and
thankfully this film is one of the rare which lives up to its promise.
While it already provides the most breathtaking action and impressive
visuals, it also able to expand the universe and give huge room for
nice warmth beneath the bombast. Once again, the studio has put aside
their recent style of broader gags and bullet speed pacing and settle
down for a real storytelling that reminds us why animated movies are so
appealing anyway. How to Train Your Dragon 2 has given all what you've
wished for as a great sequel.

The plot sure does heightened into an epic installment, it could have
been an easy throw away of cool effects, battle sequences, and humor,
but the movie is smart to keep on following its own roots by settling
more on the characterization of their world and Hiccup's life with his
dragon and the tribe. To keep it from being a wheel spinning visual
showcase, the story embeds itself with full of inspired emotions,
example is when it explores the icy dragon cave. It wasn't only an
exposition, it is mainly a developing relationship between Hiccup and
his long-lost mother. The quieter moments of letting the once
disconnected family reunite again captures the same heart of the boy
and dragon friendship of the first movie, which certainly made it
pretty endearing.

The film also spends its time exploring more places around and beyond
the Isle of Berk. It's quite interesting to let the years pass by and
make the young vikings grow mature, and how it depicts their maturity
is pretty clever, like the hormonal attraction of Snotlout and Fishlegs
to Ruffnut, in spite of fact their comic relief get a a bit way out of
hand. The dragon species were also given enough intriguing details,
essentially for the plot, which sort of recalls the book series of
Cressida Cowell. This is a rich universe that makes the whole journey
even bigger.

The voice acting is predictably great. Jay Baruchel still brings the
same earnestness to Hiccup even when the character's new appearance has
outgrown his voice. Gerard Butler remains to be perfect as Stoick The
Vast, he lends more gravity to the character in this one. Cate
Blanchett joins in and she appropriately gives a great amount of warmth
to the role. The other cast did well enough at keeping things much
alive. For the filmmaking, the direction handles a better pacing
compared to the other quicker cuts of the last few animated films. It's
an easier way to watch by concentrating each scene of getting know of
the characters, either with or without any dialogue. The flying scenes
have always been a tremendous ride with scale and fortitude. John
Powell's score helps making it feel much powerful, and it gets even
better with a Jónsi﻿ song in it.

Apart from Disney, these are the only animated films of Hollywood today
that have a wider ambition other than selling off kids with cool
visuals and absurdist humor. There is an actual story to be found here,
even without following its source material. The typical elements of
Dreamworks are still there, but is hardly noticed. It's nearly like the
first film, except of course it's larger. It does justice to today's
family fare, somewhat forgetting the current mediocrity and rather
fills it with inspiration from the past. One thing that is missing in
most of the genre's attempt of transcending their films is the
sincerity to its heart. Every affection in How To Train Your Dragon 2
never felt forced and right there it soars way up high. And if we have
learned something about training dragons from the past, then it is the
same thing about sequels: You don't just yell at it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie hits it out of the park regarding all the important factors
. Storytelling, voice cast and animation is top class. The kids will
get entertained and the parents even more so, because the movie is
intelligent as well as fun. 

The dragon's depictions are very amazing, you find yourself smitten by
these creatures and also caring for the human characters.

Is it better than the first film? Yes, with improvements in the areas
of emotion and magnitude. This one is also very different than the
first one.

So, verdict.

YOU BETTER GO SEE THIS AS SOON AS YOU CAN!
<|_=00=_|>
I have a chance to see this in a early screening today. I can guarantee
you, the wait is worth-it. For me it is as good as the first one (and
if you prefer epic action, this one is definitely better), but my
favorite is still the first one because it completely took me by
surprise.

Animation? Superior !! but the proper credit to say is cinematography.
3D effects is easy to achieve today because of advancements in
technology. But it takes great cinematography to capture your
imagination. If you are tired of "lazy" 3D, then watch this one.

Story? The Best! I won't tell anything about the plot. But I will say
that the story connected to me so well. It is about "Coming out of Age"

***************

WE ENCOUNTER A TIME IN OUR LIFE WHEN WE ASK, "WHAT DO I WANT TO DO?"
"WHERE DO I WANT TO BE?" .. we usually ask those questions during
graduations.

**************

This movie will definitely help you find the "inner you". I wish this
movie is shown during the time I graduated. My transition from college
to real world would have been a thousand times easier.

DON'T LISTEN TO STUPID TROLLS, or YOU'LL MISS A WONDERFUL MOVIE
EXPERIENCE.
