
I'm pretty much sick of teen movies and I'm pretty sick of repeating
movies too but I gave this one a shot and I'm not sorry I did. 

Before I Fall is about Sam Kingston (a lovely Zoey Deutch), a
stereotypical popular and pretty mean girl who is part of a popular
mean girl crew. On cupid day (a day where the students at high school
send each other flowers) Sam plans to lose her virginity to her
longterm boyfriend Rob. Only at a party he gets drunk and makes out
with another girl. Also crashing the party is Juliet, a former friend
of Sam's who accuses her and her friends of being pathetic and bitches
causing them to retaliate and throw drinks at her. Later that night as
they are heading home the car Sam is in crashes but instead of ending
up in the hospital... time loops and Sam wakes up on cupid day again.
From here on she must figure out why time keeps looping for her and how
she can stop it. 

Not the most original of plot lines and some of the writing is really
bad and clich√©. However Before I Fall is surprisingly watchable and
that's down to the actors who are really great. Deutch in particular
makes a really strong compelling lead. She gives the film her all so
that even though a lot of the revelations and dialogue are trite in her
hands it feels very real and warm. The film is also very beautiful,
director Ry Russo-Young makes it very beautiful and compelling to
watch. 

Not a revolutionary addition to the day-that-keeps-repeating genre, but
a decent film nevertheless.
<|_=00=_|>
Plot: 6

Themes and Tone: 9

Acting and Characters: 8

Direction: 6

Music and Score: 5

Cinematography: 8

Production Design: 10

Special Effects: 7

Editing: 9

Pacing: 5

Dialogue: 9

Plot: Has been done before. This movie in the context of high school.

Themes and Tone: The move goes for a dark theme and achieves it. On
this level the film made an emotional impression on me.

Acting and Characters: Strong stereotypes but the female lead and
especially Halston Sage's performances make up for this. 

Direction: The movie is a slow start and spends too much time
establishing the main characters as a typical mean girl clique. Part of
the issue is the story itself (it's repetitive).

Score and Music: I saw this movie with my daughter. I asked if she
recognized any of the music in the film. She said no. Not music I would
choose to listen to.

Cinematography: This is actually one of the best features of the movie.
Nice smooth camera work. Interesting angles and close-ups when needed.

Production Design: Sets and backdrop are very believable and added to
the overall theme of the movie. 

Special Effects: Aside from one jump scare pretending to be a special
effect this aspect of the film is done well.

Editing: Transitions between scenes and other editing is clean and
flows.

Pace: A slow start and eventually picks up to a decent pace.

Dialogue: Well done. The film is repetitive due to it's nature. Even so
each scene of dialog is needed and adds to the movie.

I was surprised that I liked this movie more than I thought I would. I
went because my daughter wanted to see a movie and she chose this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes it takes awhile for comedy classic theme to become an
inspiration for a takeoff that has as much potency and emotional appeal
as the original. So is the case with Before I Fall using Bill Murray's
comedy classic Groundhog Day (1993) repetition of "the same day." Too
often movies rip off the plot of a great movie with cheaper variations
of the same theme without much originality. I can't even remember most
of "the same day" movies. What makes Before I Fall so special is that
it takes "the same day" and makes it its own, just like the poster in
the movie which tells us to be true to ourselves in living life. So
much crap happens when we don't.

The plot of this movie is such that its really difficult to describe
without giving away the major twist. Except hopefully one can infer the
overall plot by indirectly mentioning another movie that hopefully few
have seen and may want to see both simultaneously if that were
possible. But another potent and emotionally compelling movie with a
resonating theme is Jennifer Love Hewitt's If Only (2004).

For an alternative relief one might also watch afterwards the comedy
romance My Girlfriend's Boyfriend (2010) or Brad Pitt's character in
Meet Joe Black (1998), or the delightful live-action/animation Run,
Lola Run (1998), or the parallel plots in Sliding Doors (1998).

What's valuable about this movie is its coming of age story that offers
us the important lesson about how we effect others and the value of
living life to the fullest.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all let me say I didn't pick this film at random, I really am
a sucker for this kind of plot device (i.e. Groundhog Day or more
generally the 'change one thing in a chain of events and see how they
turn out' premise). The problem is I've seen many good films that have
used this in clever ways (Run Lola Run) or even average quality films
that have at least managed to keep the suspense going (Butterfly
Effect). I've even enjoyed a recent teenagery version of this in game
format ("Life is Strange") which I think is the main reason why I
thought I'd give this one a go.

Well, it is dull and predictable, not even trying to be subtle (the
moral of the story is literally printed in big bold letters on a poster
that the camera zooms on around 10 times throughout the film). The
acting is meh, cinematography good but uninspired. I think it is
exclusively aimed at a teenage audience that hasn't yet been exposed to
better movies of this kind. I also can't imagine who else would like
the godawful music score (OK, sorry teens, I admit this may be me
getting old).

Bottom line: not suitable for over 25s.

And a note regarding films on Netflix (that we don't hear about
anywhere else): they suck more often than not.
<|_=00=_|>
Groundhog Day was played for laughs thereby selling the potential of
this concept short. And though this more youthful and feminine take
doesn't quite wring everything out of it, it goes much farther than the
original, and that's really good to see.

Most critics point out the promise of the lead, Zoey Deutch, who is
good, but for me the real star is the story and its execution. There
are group scenes in this film that are incredibly natural, as if these
actors were actually friends. The gabby girlfriend thing is a bit much
for guys, but it moves on pretty quickly. And there's also the
performance of the main baddie, Halston Sage, who manages to conjure up
every snooty clique queen you've ever known.

All in all, an entertaining time at the movies showing a lot of promise
for its young director, Ry Russo-Young.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't even know where to begin. This movie is such a waste of time
and is beyond stupid. It was supposed to have a deep meaning I guess,
but overall it looked rather ridiculous than the one with substance.

The movie is about this girl Sam who supposedly lives this perfect life
and has perfect friends. However, she gets into car crash, dies and now
relives the last day of her life. Sounds quite interesting, right?
Unfortunately, the movie is totally pointless and at times even
ridiculous. 

So everything starts with Sam waking up in her room and telling us that
her last day has started. Plot seems intriguing from this point as she
meets up with her friends who happen to be very mean popular girls.
However, Sam gets along with them very well and everything appears to
be just perfect. While in school, her friends start bullying one girl
who by the way looks like the one who just got out of mental hospital.
We then see her at the party where she calls Sam and her friends
'bitches' and gets called 'psycho' in response. Sam and her 'mean'
friends leave the party and get into car crash. Yet instead of dying,
Sam wakes up in her room and realizes that she is reliving the last day
of her life. 

At this point, I thought that now Sam would discover that her 'perfect'
friends were not so perfect and that there was something with 'psycho'
girl. Maybe she knows something about Lindsay, the leader of 'mean'
girls clique? However, she doesn't. Apparently, this 'psycho' girl used
to be friends with Lindsay. She knows that Lindsay used to wet her bed,
yet Juliet (psycho girl) is the one who gets bullied because Lindsay
told everyone that Juliet was the one who wetted the bed. Despite the
fact, that it's quite ridiculous to get bullied for such thing, movie
still seemed to continue exploring suicide and bullying themes which
was the worst thing that could happen to a movie, in my opinion. Those
are serious themes but they were presented in such banal and almost
parody-like way that it got me really annoyed. Bullied girl not only
did look like psycho, but also was bullied for ridiculous thing. 

The movie seemed to get better, when Sam decided to act the way she
supposedly wanted and not to suck up to her fellows. She put on a sexy
dress, dark makeup and spoke her mind. She called Lindsay egotistical,
which was actually true, leaving her 'mean' friends shocked and
annoyed. At this point, I thought that movie would explore what it's
like being different and not being shallow mean girl. However, next day
Sam 'wisely' decided that she needed to be kind to everyone around her.
Does that mean that her 'dark' self was just a phase and she, in fact,
like her friends? If that was a case, still, it's hard to believe that
someone would like to be in a group of people who are so mean. 

The ending is just preposterous. Sam saves Juliet from suicide by
pushing her out of the car's way and gets run over herself, dying
immediately. Juliet turns back in shock, saying "Sam, you saved me!",
Sam appears in the woods in a peaceful demeanor and says "No. You saved
me". Her spirit supposedly moves on and she no longer relives her last
day. So was the point of all this reliving for Sam to save Juliet from
suicide and then die because Sam was just the root of all evil? Even
though Sam made up with all characters in the movie and tried to change
things? Does it mean that even though you try to change things for
better, death conquers all? Also, another ridiculous line from a movie:
"How is it possible to change so much and not be able to change
anything at all?" Sums up movie for me. Sam died in a car crash, was
given a chance to change things I guess and yet died again although she
saved Juliet from suicide. Totally pointless... Furthermore, characters
in the movie are one-sided, everybody is just either good or evil.
'Mean' girls are always evil while her childhood friend who is in love
with her is plainly good.

To sum up, absolute waste of time... 1/10
<|_=00=_|>
The life of a very popular high-school teenage girl is about to take a
dramatic turn when she sees herself repeating the same day. Realizing
this fact, she tries different approaches, trying to find out the cause
and what needs to be done in order to stop this loop. Throughout the
attempts, she slowly starts to acknowledge how people around her are
and how she should behave in order to make everyone happy, or mad.

It's a movie which is based on the fact that the girl repeats the same
fatidic day and insists on it from various perspectives. It's
interesting and quite thrilling, keeping you curios about what will
happen in the end. It's a bit slow though and even awkward at times,
while the whole repeating day could have been better thought, as well
as the main character's actions.

Still, it's a pretty good achievement for this type of movie which had
a good idea and managed to create a good movie out of it, even without
a fabulous budget.
<|_=00=_|>
Even if you are not that into the films, you probably have seen at
least a couple film related to 'time loop'. For me, this is like
hundredth. When I first saw the trailer, I said 'not again'. 'Time
loop' is just a concept, but the storyline for it drawn differently. It
tells the story of a high school girl on the Cupid's Day, a special day
for her since she has a big plan for it to remember. Like usual her day
goes on and at the end of the day something goes wrong and then she
wakes again on the same day in the following day which keeps repeating.
Now how she's going to find a solution or the reason for it is covered
in the rest of the film.

Familiar them, but well designed storyline around it. In some way, it
is same as 'Groundhog Day', though it is about a teenager and more
serious and tragic tale. We sometimes wish for a second chance, that's
how this film was developed, but even bigger scale with a small message
for teenagers.

Awesome performances, particularly Zoey. Predictable scenes, so I had
thought of couple of ending that did not happen. And I also
disappointed how it concluded. Not the best solution, yet an unexpected
twist. Originally the film was based on the book of the same name. This
is a small budget and a quality film. The direction was good, very rich
in presentation. Definitely not bad for once viewing.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie, sure the book was better, but ... wow. I truly felt
like I connected with the teen, Sam, in many ways. I love how this
movie held many different morals and themes that anyone would connect
to. The ending was rather sad, however, satisfying. I completely
recommend watching this movie and to read the book.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is better than I thought it would be. It has its classic
American high school moments (mean girls & stuff). Zoey Deutch's
performance was great and convincing, I was actually really surprised
by her acting. The message of the film is quite clear and important
(Carpe diem). All in all it's an enjoyable film to watch.
