
It has finally come...yes, the final installment of the gushy
billion-dollar making series made famous by Stephenie Meyer.
Mehtunately (a cross between "unfortunately" and "fortunately"), I have
read the books and knew what to expect. Unfortunately, I have seen all
of the movies, with some different opinions. I found Eclipse to be the
best, even though it is quite mediocre. Twilight was too dull, with
boring actors, New Moon was just a repeat of that, except with wolves,
and Breaking Dawn Part 1 was two hours of three things: 1. Bella and
Edward getting married, 2. Bella and Edward having very unessential
foreplay that results in a pregnancy, and 3. Bella sitting on a couch
moaning and groaning with said pregnancy. I will say I did not have
many great expectations for this final installment. But I did see it.
It did not raise the bar, nor did it lower it. To me, it was just
another Twilight movie.

Bella and Edward are now married. Hooray. They have a newborn
half-mortal half-immortal vampire baby. Hooray. Bella is now a vampire.
Hooray. The baby, or Renesmee, is the driving force of the otherwise
tedious plot of this movie. The Volturi is given false reasons to
believe that this baby will somehow, in its later life, kill many
people and expose the other world that humans don't know about. The
Cullens set out to bring in other vampire clans to defend themselves
from the Volturi. The short plot summary that you can find on the front
page of IMDb practically summarizes the entire movie: "After the birth
of Renesmee, the Cullens gather other vampire clans in order to protect
the child from a false allegation that puts the family in front of the
Volturi." You can basically just use your imagination to fill in the
blank spots. That's the whole plot. This isn't a very strong plot to
work with, and thus gave me a sense of boredom throughout the whole
movie, except for the end, but we'll get to that.

The bad...well, the usual. The only new bad that I can't seem to get
away from is the pacing of this movie. The pacing was terrible. If I
were to guess, they covered the first 100 pages of the last half of the
book within the first five minutes. Each scene felt like it was missing
a beginning and an end, and the transitions between each scene were
non-existent. Along with that you have the acting, which mainly focuses
on Kristen Stewart's one facial expression. The rest of the acting is
decent, and the only good actors have very minor parts. The script
needs more to add more dialogue. Within three lines of dialogue, they
tried to cover as much as they could, and when they weren't talking
about significant things, the dialogue was weak and uninteresting. The
special effects, now, were atrocious. With the two billion dollars that
this series has made, you would think that the special effects would be
somewhat believable. Nope. I'm a very negative person, I know, and I'm
probably going to get hated on, but notice that I've given this movie a
three star rating. There was one thing in this movie that was worth
that, which if you think about it, is a lot if you are talking about a
full-length movie. The ending. There will be no spoilers, but I can
only say that the ending was absolutely sensational. They changed it
from the book in such a huge way, and such a good way, that I thought
the movie was going to redeem itself in its final half-hour. Obviously
it couldn't make up for all that was bad, but the ending was absolutely
amazing. That's all I can say.

Overall, fans of the series...I mean, single teenage girls will enjoy
the final installment. It has the same elements of the other movies
that made it so popular, so there's nothing to complain about with fans
of the series. It's just not my cup of tea, but, who am I? I'm just one
person voicing his opinion.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is the first time I sat in a theatre to watch a Twilight movie. I
think the theatre experience maybe helped me enjoy the film more than I
should have. Nevertheless, Breaking Dawn Part II is not only the best
entry in the franchise, it's also the worst. How can that be? For a
good 20 minutes, the film tries to be daring and does something
different. Yet it is all undone by playing it safe and ruining what
came before it. 

I have to stress that yes, this film did NOT have to be broken up into
two. The first film was an hour and a half of filler, followed by 20
minutes of awesomeness. This entry is an hour and a half of build-up,
followed by 20 minutes of awesomeness X10, followed by the worst
decision the series has ever made to date.

I have seen every Twilight movie, I'm not a fan, nor am I a hater. I'm
always objective when it comes to these movies. The highest rating I've
given one of them is a 5, that went to Eclipse. Breaking Dawn Part II
could have easily gotten a 7 from me, had they had the balls to go
through with what we were witnessing. A twist so inane, that it
actually made me boo at the screen. I don't think I've ever booed at
any movie in the theatre before, so congratulations Breaking Dawn Part
II, you achieved something. 

Now, that awesomeness that I was speaking of, it is indeed awesome. I
was cheering, I was laughing, I was having a blast. The people around
me, I'm assuming fans, were gasping at the carnage they were
witnessing. I had a giant smile on my face. Did the creators finally
take the series in a bold direction? Did they finally have the balls to
do something different? Yes, they did, but then they ruin it. I can't
stress how awful that made me feel.

K-Stew, finally has something to do other than swoon over Edward,
resist the urges from Jacob and act like a whiny teenager. She is a
vampire, so she has to learn to be one, although it seems she has no
problem with the thirst and heightened senses. There is no struggle for
her, which makes this whole aspect a bit shallow. Jacob, unfortunately
has nothing to do in this entry other than glare at everyone who comes
near Renesmee. So the character shifts his focus from one girl to the
next, nothing more for him to do, yawn. 

Speaking of Renesmee (stupid name), we have what is probably one of the
creepiest babies to ever grace the silver screen. Why they chose to use
CGI for the face of the baby, other than using a normal one is beyond
me. It looks unnatural and comical. The movement doesn't flow and for
some reason they decide to keep this CGI face with the kid as she grows
older until they finally have the older actress in the role.

As with every Twilight film, there are moments of unintentional
laughter, bad acting, dialogue and CGI. Michael Sheen seems to be
having fun acting like a complete weirdo and the others seem to be
happy they are finished with this series. Now, to be completely honest,
this entire saga could have been told in three movies. Twilight for the
set up, Eclipse for conflict, Breaking Dawn for the closure. Eliminate
the pointless New Moon and condense these two movies into one. 

Twilight is finally over. No more sparkling vampires, no more team
Edwards or team Jacobs and no more shirtless scenes of young men. Good
bye Twilight, I do not look forward to the inevitable remakes.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie cost a reported $120,000,000. In only 2 weeks, it's already
doubled that take at the box office, but what I'd like to know is where
all that money went. Not on sets or locations, since it's mainly set in
the woods. Elegant costumes, to be sure, but you're not gonna blow 9
digits' worth of bucks on epaulets. The effects are sparse and nothing
special. Fersher not on the writing (execrable screenplay by Melissa
Rosenberg).

So it has to have been on the actors. And boy, did they ever NOT get
their money's worth. The entire film consists of people standing around
like statues, reading dialog to each other, with an occasional flicker
of attempted facial expression. Really, this is not an exaggeration.
80% of the film is literally people just standing there like an array
of department-store manikins, spouting inane, vapid dialog.

The entire premise of the film is based on the idea that the Volturi,
self-appointed overlords of the vampire world, will not tolerate a
human child being turned into a vampire (with some justification, based
on terrible experiences in the past, when the tykes had tantrums and
couldn't control their appetites). And now the Volturi mistakenly
believe that Bella and Edward's new child, the regrettably named
Renesmee, is one such, and they're coming to wreak vengeance on her and
the entire Cullen clan  having politely given several weeks advance
notice. All of this could have been cleared up with a little home
video, or perhaps a Skype call. Ditto for the Cullens' attempts to
round up witnesses to little Nessie's amazing growth spurt (newborn to
an apparent age 6 in a couple of weeks). Could they just ring up their
friends on their cell phones or e-mail them? Nooooooo, gotta travel
twice around the world to ask them in person. And then they all show up
in the Pacific northwoods, where they get to stand around like statues
like everyone else. When there finally IS a flurry of action, the
cameras move so rapidly and jerkily that you can't get any sense at all
of who's doing what to whom.

This is a terrible movie, all posing and posturing and protestations of
undying love less sincere than a Twinkies commercial.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit, I've never seen any of the Twilight movies previous to
this one. Accompanied my girlfriend on this one since she went with me
to see Skyfall...

Caveat--I'm a guy and this is definitely not my type of movie. But I
say with no equivocation that I tried to be open minded...I REALLY DID.
I mean...she dragged me to the indie film "The Paperboy" and I actually
enjoyed that.

OK. This was the worst piece of tripe I have EVER SEEN. I couldn't find
one redeeming thing about this abomination of a "movie". Did it really
have a budget of $75,000,000???? The movie effects looked so fake (The
CGI effects used to make the baby were HORRIBLE. The scenes where the
characters are moving at some sort of hyper-vampire speed were a joke).
The lines were so cheesy and hackneyed (and horribly delivered by the
actors) that it was laughable. The story line was completely
disjointed...there was no flow to it at all.

I saw someone's earlier review here where she stated that she asked her
friend "Is this a real movie?" Exactly. I found myself in disbelief the
entire time.

My girlfriend...who admitted that this franchise was a guilty pleasure
of hers---said she loved the other movies---FELL ASLEEP halfway
through. This is someone who loves this franchise. In her words--this
movie was a complete waste, there was no reason to break the final
movie into two parts. They could have summed up everything that
happened in this one by adding 15 minutes onto the last one and it
would have made a much cleaner ending.

Biggest waste of two hours in my entire life. Waiting in line for two
hours at the DMV to have one of their employees perform a root canal on
me, while listening to Britney Spears perform "Oops I Did It Again"
live would have been less torturous.
<|_=00=_|>
It is actually impossible to rate a twilight film as "good" because
it's an established fact that those films make zilch sense and do not
provide any remote sense of satisfaction to the general moviegoers
apart from the amazingly passionate legion of fans called "twihards".
So when a person who is not a fan of the series says a twilight movie
is good, it means that it is still terrible but not as terrible as the
other ones.

The final instalment of this outrageously successful series, called
Breaking Dawn part 2, tries the patience of the viewer for the first
30- 40 minutes. There is hardly anything that happens apart from the
trademark Edward and Bella moments and a little bit of shirltess Jacob.
There is also a poorly done CGI baby which is called Renesmee, Edward
and Bella's daughter. Just when you contemplate walking out of the
cinema hall, you get to see something that can be perceived as a
successful attempt to placate the disappointed audience. There is a
very well-executed battle sequence with a clever twist that makes you
wonder why such scenes were so sporadic throughout the series. Yes, the
battle sequence was effective damage control.

The performances were mediocre as opposed to the hitherto awful
monotony that the cast put up in the past four movies except
Pattinson,. who still continues to look jaded, but you can't really
blame him. 

On the whole, for an non-fan, this movie would visually punish you for
a while and then give you a breather during its last 20 minutes. If you
think the ticket cost is worth those 20 minutes, I suggest that you
watch it. Bland film otherwise
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe I sat through this entire movie. I can't believe
Stephanie Meyer approves of it. I can't believe the acting is so
dreadful. I can't believe some people actually think this is an
all-right, let alone great, ending to the movie franchise. Admittedly,
I am inclined to be negatively critical of movies that are not faithful
to the original story or characters on which they are based -
especially if I liked the original. I was mildly tolerant of the 4
movies leading up to this one because I felt the important parts of the
story lines were there even though the actors didn't measure up to the
characters that had formed in my mind from reading the books. This
final movie, on the other hand, rushes through the story barely
touching on some parts I feel are important, in order to include a
culminating scene which is not part of the original story, and which
itself has to be absurdly unbelievable to any fan of the book series.
Two actors, Lautner and Sheen, do the best they can with the terrible
dialoge they were given, but not one other character utters a
believable syllable the entire time. I should have stayed home and
re-read the book, and would heartily advise others to do the same.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, it's over. For some it's sad. No more shirtless Taylor Lautner
(he strips all the way down to his skivvies in this one). No more
cheesy- looking CGI that laughably tries to convince us that these
vampires are kin to The Flash. No more horrid acting. No more horrid
writing. Yes, gone forever is the cheap-shot money-maker that is "The
Twilight Saga" soap opera. In the latest episode, which amounts to
nothing more than an unenthusiastic excuse to showcase every person who
was ever in these films and convince us that the "saga" was something
bigger than it was (it's not), we wave goodbye to all of these things
one last time. Sometimes, what looks great in your head as you read it
in a book just doesn't work as well on the silver screen. This is a
prime example. But sadly, no one really cares. This meritless movie
franchise made money off of a brand, and that's all. What a waste of a
pop-culture phenomenon. Oh well, I hear they're already rebooting it.

-Thomas Bond
<|_=00=_|>
The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn - Part 2 is the fifth and final film
in the Twilight film series, adapted from Stephenie Meyer's novel
"Breaking dawn" and the sequel to Breaking Dawn - Part 1. It stars
Kristen Stewart, Robert Pattinson and Taylor Lautner retaining their
lead roles as Bella Swan, Edward Cullen and Jacob Black. Also returning
are Billy Burke, Ashley Greene, Michael Sheen, Dakota Fanning, Peter
Facinelli, Jamie Campbell Bower, Nikki Reed, Kellan Lutz, Maggie Grace,
Jackson Rathbone, Christopher Heyerdahl, Elizabeth Reaser, Booboo
Stewart and Julia Jones. Mackenzie Foy appears as Reneesme, the
daughter of Bella and Edward.

The plot of this second part (which is definitely NOT a money-making
scheme by the way guys) is that The Volturi (vampire police) find out
about the kid and think it is a vampire, so start walking as slowly as
they can from Italy to North-West America over a couple of months,
conveniently giving the Cullens plenty of time to build up forces and
defences. Bella will then do anything to protect her child from them,
causing the Ultimate Showdown of Destiny.

However, that is not true. They could have condensed all five films
into an hour-long TV film featured occasionally on the Syfy channel,
omitting as much as possible. As with previous films, nothing much
happens, with plenty of staring, people holding hands, kids touching
people's faces, pale, creepy men making weird noises, incomprehensible
zooming-in on body parts and/or inanimate objects and a new addition,
lots of faces being ripped off. Although there is no blood here, to
allow as many people as possible to contribute to the obscene amounts
of money being made by the 'films.' As per every Twilight film, I tried
to give this one a chance. No such luck however. Within the first 5
minutes, there is everything that makes a Twilight "film" - sub-par,
emotionless and frankly diabolical acting, inane, banal and boring
dialogue and some horrible visual effects. When the vampires jump, they
are clearly small, poor CGI models and the directing, green-screen
shots and general camera-work is poor. Now, into 

-----SPOILER ZONE-----about half an hour of the end of the film, the
whole 'final battle' section, is simply a vision. Around 70% of the
cast members have their faces/other body parts ripped off or die when a
convenient river of lava opens at the bottom of a field of snow, with
plenty of screams and gasps from the audience as their favourite
character is quickly killed off. However, all of this just turns out to
be a future vision. Which means, if you cut out any parts of the film
not in the present, it is 90 minutes of vampires from various places
showing off abilities-----END OF SPOILER ZONE-----

The only redeeming factors were one very funny Wilhelm scream, which no
one else in the cinema seemed to appreciate, one or two slightly funny
lines that may have non-Twihards curling the corner of their mouths a
bit, and slightly improved acting.
<|_=00=_|>
Picking up almost immediately after the events of "Breaking Dawn Part
1," Bella Swan (Kristen Stewart) and Edward Cullen (Robert Pattinson)
must brave raising their newborn child Renesmee (Mackenzie Foy) in a
world where vampire children are forbidden. When Irina (Maggie Grace)
spies close friend and werewolf guardian Jacob Black (Taylor Lautner)
out for a snowy stroll with the rapidly growing Renesmee, she assumes
the young girl was turned into a vampire as opposed to being born 
which in vampire lore, represents an unignorable dilemma from permanent
immaturity, potentially destructive tantrums, and general
untrustworthiness. Betraying this inaccurate vision to the inflexible
Volturi leader Aro (Michael Sheen), she incites a war between the
Cullens and their sympathizers and Aro's army of skillful followers.

There's something exhilarating about the Twilight Saga finally coming
to a close. The repetitious nature of witnessing Lautner dramatically
remove his shirt, seeing scantily clad forest people metamorphosing
into over-sized werewolves that appear entirely too cuddly despite
gritted canines, and looking at Stewart's blank face trying desperately
to emote, has equated to a tiresome journey. The numerous problems
plaguing the series haven't been solved, once again demonstrating the
excruciating preposterousness of vampire strength and speed (and now
more conspicuously the feeding on wild game), unconvincing computer
graphics (isn't this franchise much too lucrative to ignore
possibilities outside of Rodeo FX and Hydraulx?), and an overabundance
of comic relief.

The pervasive humor in "Breaking Dawn" is perhaps the greatest scourge
of the production. The first half-hour is so blanketed by one-liner
riffs that it's difficult to understand the intent. These constant
little jokes don't progress the story and only serve to pollute the
tone, which gravely requires seriousness to market sense for the wildly
fanciful, fairy-tale-like characters. Imprinting, the love triangle, a
very PG-13 sex scene, Bella arm-wrestling to prove her fortitude  all
of these and more are purely comedic (while aspiring to be expectedly
essential) and further detract from the severity of quenching
bloodlust, rearing an enigmatic child, and engineering an army for an
epic closing battle. The casting of Michael Sheen is easily the most
garish selection, bestowing upon the goofy role expressions, dialogue,
and cackles that garner awkward laughs. Later, the elaboration of
special powers beyond merely being immortal bloodsuckers (the mastery
of electricity, elemental distortion, mind control, etc.) is presented
as pathetically derivative of X-Men mutants. The lengths the vampires
will go to conceal their vampirism has apparently made it necessary to
exploit flashier abilities, akin to superheroes. Jacob even comments of
Bella's "Jedi training." 

Admittedly, it's amusing to see the much-awaited culmination of the
Volturi's mercilessness and the Cullen's protective righteousness. The
highly anticipated, skull-ripping campaign isn't without unexpected and
momentous casualties. An unfortunate twist surrounds this momentary
enthusiasm and welcome realization of acerbity and violence, however,
revealing a method of misdirection tantamount to storytelling treason 
which will unavoidably displease the casual or uneducated viewer
(namely those not familiar with the book, should they exist in crowds
for this release). At least Bella's narration quickens the overly
simplistic plot, resulting in a finale for the theatrical phenomenon
thankfully clocking in at less than two hours.

- The Massie Twins (GoneWithTheTwins.com)
<|_=00=_|>
I gave it 4 stars only because I'm rounding up from the 3.5 it probably
deserves. The first hour and a quarter the movie was cheesy and with
horrible lines ("you nicknamed my daughter after the loch Ness
monster?) but in my opinion the acting was at least better than the
rest. The CGI of the baby and little girl was so horrible I was
actually embarrassed for the actors in the scenes who couldn't have
known during shooting how silly they would look interacting with it. It
was simply awful.

Now, what saves the movie is the last 20 minutes. I thought it was an
incredible twist only truly able to be appreciated by readers of the
books. I bet it made Stephanie Meyer wish she wrote it that way. It was
fun to experience the audiences astonishment as events unfolded... And
to be honest, I wrestled with my own unexpected feelings as I watched
it. In the end though, those last 20 minutes and the great performance
(as usual) by Michael Sheen saved the movie from being a wasted night.
In fact, the last 20 minutes alone ALMOST makes me want to see it
again.
