
Nicolas Cage has been on a bad movie streak for a while now. Every now
and then he makes a winner, but most are forgettable B-movies that he
agrees to do for a paycheck: You can't blame the man for doing his job.
However, not all B-movies are bad - in fact, they're ideal
entertainment if you want to sit back, relax, and shut off your brain
for a couple hours. Trespass provides that mindless entertainment in
spades, with a few head-scratches along the way.

The premise of Trespass is simple: Nic Cage plays a diamond dealer who
lives in a beautiful house with his wife and daughter, and some thugs
break into the house one day to steal his stash. Nicole Kidman plays
his wife who feels distant from her hard-working husband, and the
daughter is a typical rebellious teen that sneaks out and goes to a
party behind her parents' back. Nothing special. 

What makes this movie interesting is the performances. Cage taps into
his subtlety - something he rarely does these days - which helps the
tension and uneasiness of the atmosphere build until he finally bursts
(on more than one occasion). And you never really know what is going
through his head. These characters have secrets, all of them, and
herein lies most of the film's faults.

The villains in this movie are a mixed bag. Each of the burglars have
their own agenda that we find out over the course of the movie through
the use of flashbacks and security cam footage. Some of the reveals are
a pleasant surprise, others leave you scratching your head. It gets to
the point that they're trying to intertwine all these villains' motives
together but it ends up feeling forced and underwhelming. However, it
is nice that they tried to do something different. Also Ben
Mendelsohn's performance as the lead maniac and his eccentric
back-and-forth between Cage really adds to the gravity of the situation
and makes for a gripping protagonist-antagonist dynamic.

So to wrap up, this is not a thinking man's movie. You can try to put
all the pieces together at the end but you'll only end up confused and
disappointed - it's not worth the effort. The best thing you can do is
grab some popcorn, turn off your brain and watch the events unravel
before your eyes. You won't remember this movie as one of Cage's best
that's for sure, but it's far from his worst. A good date movie? Sure.
It's only 90 minutes, and if you're a fan of Nicolas Cage, you'll
surely get at least some enjoyment from Trespass.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this the other day with mixed expectations due to reading the
other reviews on here.

Don't bother wasting your time with this movie unless you like typical
over acted predictable Hollywood releases.

I found it your typical business man married to a beautiful wife with
an equally beautiful teenage daughter living in a beautiful pad. People
break in to steal from the rich Family, and things don't exactly go
according to plan.

Yes,it has 2 very good actors, but the premise for the movie, home
invasion, has been done to death! Bruce Willis in Hostage is one, Kevin
Bacon and the beautiful Charlize Theron in Trapped and one that I
really enjoyed, Gerard Butler and Pierce Brosnan in Butterfly on a
wheel.

If you want to watch a good home invasion movie try the last two and
forget about Trespass!
<|_=00=_|>
I've never written a review before but felt compelled in this case due
to the overwhelming number of positive reviews for a film that I felt
was somewhat surprising in it's mediocrity considering its cast. Nic
Cage does a fine job of subduing his performance and avoiding the tics
that make him so Nicholas Cagey, but at some points it seems like a
detriment. Coupled with the home invaders failure to produce much of a
'menacing' feel, Nic's performance doesn't do much to stem the movie
from it's ultimate failure: a lack of intensity. In fairness, it seemed
like more of a script issue; his character didn't seem very realistic.

Kidman's hyperventilating hysteria and sobbing pleas almost seem out of
place in such a setting and I couldn't help but wish someone would just
slap the bajeesus out of her already to quiet her down. She came close
to seeming like a clich√© but then it dawns on you that her acting would
be right on target were the scenes and script properly conveying the
direness of the situation she was responding to.

The bad guys were somewhat typical bad guys and although Ben Mendelsohn
stood out with some great acting, in some scenes it could do little to
conceal the sense that he was just doing his best to negotiate through
some awkward dialogue. 

The movie wasn't bad, it was just a bit predictable and boring, and
watching it plod along, I kept waiting for it to be over so I could do
something else. It's not transfixing, so would make for a great
background movie while you do crosswords or something.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to see a new thriller expecting something like Panic Room and
hopefully something that exceeds it in terms of plot and suspense. Boy,
I was wrong. Where do I start ? First, the whole premise is unrealistic
and not convincing to say the least. If the character of Cage just had
a little sense he will have avoided all the trouble that followed and
there would have been no movie. The plot is not really original or
intricate. The performances are so so. Cage plays the typical confused
character he has played for the last 20 plus years. Nicole Kidman is
all right and nice to look at but nothing else. Their daughter gives a
solid performance. They were trying to include some references to the
recession and its impact on the life of this supposedly wealthy family.
For me, it didn't work. I couldn't really relate to any of the
characters and did not feel sorry for their misery. If you want to
watch a movie with a similar plot, go watch Panic room. Do not waste
your time with this one.
<|_=00=_|>
As is usually the case when a movie gets bad press, I felt compelled to
see it for myself. As a fan of Nicolas Cage and Nicole Kidman, I was
also interested to see just how terrible they were.

In actual fact I think the critics have been a little cruel. As other
reviewers have commented, this is no groundbreaking piece of work; it's
a home invasion story and highlights the lengths people will go to for
money (see Panic Room for more details....!). Yes there is a lot of
screaming from Nicole and a lot of people saying "run" and no one runs
anywhere, but to be fair if I was in their position, I would likely be
in a corner papping myself with fear.

It seems that they follow a similar formula to Panic Room, in that the
burglars are pretty brutal and one or two of them seem slightly
unhinged, but this is clearly a device used to work up tension as they
become more panicked and more unpredictable. In a sense I liked this
element, which showed something more of the invaders' humanity; their
fears and failings.

All in all this is not an amazing film, but nor is it that terrible. It
also isn't half as violent as people make out - there is a fair amount
of threat but I have seen a lot worse and I am not a fan of violent
movies. So 6/10 seems a fair score, although personally I quite enjoyed
it - it was easy enough to watch and I was interested enough to keep
watching to the end. But maybe that's just me.
<|_=00=_|>
I generally like to seek out films with a favourable IMDb review, yet
have not previously reviewed a film myself. It was the relatively high
review score that prompted me to "break my duck" (it's a UK expression)
because I simply can't believe how this film has got such good reviews.
It has the most outrageously over the top acting and ridiculous script
that I have seen in such a long time.

Perversely, it's the absurdity that is the only thing line that keeps
it from being boring and predictable - you are weirdly compelled to see
how silly it can get. Every single character's handling of the
situation and dialogue is so unbelievable that it's almost funny . If
you thought that Nick Cage was bad in the ridiculous "Wicker Man"
remake then this is certainly a close second.

One reviewer called this film "subtle" and I respect all views, but I
found this as subtle as a flying mallet. This is sub standard fare even
for the limited acting range of Nick Cage, but Nicole Kidman is sadly
wasted here and is capable of so much more.

Sometimes "over the top" can make for entertaining escapism, not here.
Sorry, I know it different strokes etc, but I thought this was
absolutely awful.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't imagine Nicole Kidman agreeing to do this movie. I like Nicolas
Cage as well, and I can understand why, as mentioned in your trivia, he
was unsure of playing either the role of the husband or the robber in
this film. He was probably trying to save his reputation but realized
playing either part would be an embarrassment. This is a terrible,
terrible movie in every way.

The plot is very weak, and the acting is poor. Throughout the film, we
are force fed gratuitous violence. 

When choosing to watch a movie that I am unfamiliar with, the actors
are usually the deciding factor. After watching this movie, I need to
rethink this strategy.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the worst movies of always good Nicol Kidman and Nicolas Cage.
Very mediocre movie, pretty slow developing and no tense pace. About
all action goes in one place without any changes regarding drama
development. Pleas of the tortured and tyranny of the robbers is about
what is going on in most of the movie. But dull plot development is not
the most surprising thing in this look like five days shot movie. It is
an acting of a great actress Nicol Kidman. I have never seen her acting
that bad. As a matter a fact, she is bringing the finest charm to every
movie but in this one she looks like an actress just taught how to look
hysterical most of the time and that goes for most of the scenes with
her. So no, I do not hate this movie, I just felt like falling a sleep
from time to time which I find very strange considering the synopsis.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the kind of film you should choose when you just want to relax
and be entertained. It's not an epic but then - come on lets be honest
- Nick Cage's films seldom are. However, they are nearly always
enjoyable and even though I can never take him too seriously because of
his southern drawl (he never really manages to convince that he is
desperate or afraid, does he?) this one is still very watchable.

Accent aside, he gives a good solid performance. (Nicole Kidman, on the
other hand, turns in a surprisingly weak one.) The plot is pretty
standard, very predictable, but I for one enjoyed it right up to the
end so in my opinion it delivered.
<|_=00=_|>
I was curious to watch "Trespass" because of the interesting casting of
Nic Cage and Nic Kidman. I was a bit wary about Nic Cage, as his films
lately have been a bit on the hammy side. Despite his leery reputation
though, it is a wonder that he continues to get a lot of work, but good
for him. Another curiosity about this film was the name of Joel
Schumacher as director. His was a big name in directing box-office hits
in the 80s and 90s. The last of film of his I had seen was when he
directed Gerard Butler as "Phantom of the Opera." 

"Trespass" turned out to be a film about a family whose beautiful
suburban house was intruded upon by a gang of desperate amateur
robbers. The robbers were quite violent and brutal the way they treated
diamond trader Kyle Miller (Nic Cage), his glamorous wife Sarah (Nic
Kidman) and their rebellious young daughter Avery (Liana Liberato).
Things got a little more complicated when it was revealed that one of
the robbers Jonah (Cam Gigandet) had a psychotic crush on Sarah.

The performances were over the top and unconvincing, both of the
victims and the intruders. Nicole Kidman reminded me of her debut
performance in "Dead Calm" as the victim of a psycho guy in love with
her. However, she definitely loses her subtlety as well as any sexual
tension as a victim here. Nicolas Cage was typically florid in his
acting. You don't know where from his business background he got his
extreme gung-ho bravado in facing these robbers! It was good to see
Liana Liberato again after her memorably disturbing debut film "Trust."
She had her good moments here. Cam Gigandet was appropriately creepy as
the deluded Romeo. Jonah's brother and gang ringleader Elias was
well-played by Ben Mendelsohn, whom I just realized was one of the sons
in another crime family in "Animal Kingdom." 

This was probably one of the noisiest movies set in a single house that
I have seen. Everyone was always hysterically screaming and shouting at
the top of their lungs. Despite the brutality of the robbers, it was a
wonder how the victims also had the guts to stand up to them. The
Millers were daringly answering and fighting back in spite of the guns
brandished by the bad men in their faces! I must say this whole thing
was highly improbable and unrealistic. Watch this at your own risk.
Strictly for fans of the two Nics.
