
Normally, I don't review movies on here, but when I read everyone else
slamming this movie, I thought maybe they should get the perspective of
someone who enjoyed it.

As a non-Twilight fan (haven't read the books and don't wish to for
reasons to numerous to mention), I was determined to see this movie at
the time when I wanted to tease a Twi-hard that I personally got to
know from my disability social group about it. She refused to see this
movie simply because they make fun of Twilight and Buffy, which
motivated me even further.

First off, yes, there were a lot of corny sex jokes, fart jokes, pop
culture and celebrity references that many reviewers said wore out
their welcome with projects like Epic Movie and Meet the Spartans. That
may be true, but think about this for a minute. We are talking about a
franchise that has spent 500 or so pages going on and on about Edward
Cullen's "great" looks, using every descriptive synonym known to man,
resulting in the most annoying teenyboppers since Benji and Joel Madden
put the oh-so-overrated Good Charlotte on the music map, them and the
Jonas Brothers. Ask anyone who has hated the Twilight series from the
start, or started to hate it once they got through their
Twilight-gushing phase (in other words, they grew up and developed
literary taste!) Neither the books nor the movies deserve even a
quarter of the recognition they got, because all the people behind it
want you to focus on is how a naive, despairing, depressed girl who
doesn't know what she wants getting into a love triangle with a fairy
vampire and a werewolf. That and how gorgeous Robert Pattinson looks in
his sparkles and pale makeup, and the same with Taylor Lautner in his
shirtless scenes. The result: hordes of groupie girls going so far as
to unrealistically want to have Edward Cullen and Jacob Black's
children, despite the fact they are fictional characters. It's
ridiculous and absurd, to say the least! 

This is why "Vampires Suck" can be halfway appreciated. You can easily
laugh at the jokes in this movie because even those who hated it know
that this highly overrated saga had this coming all along. And for the
aforementioned crimes that this literary atrocity committed, the
Twilight saga got the bashing and ridicule it so richly deserved.

So if you disliked it the first time because it made you think of the
unfunny torture you experienced after flops like the Scary Movie
franchise after the first movie, Disaster Movie, Date Movie, Epic
Movie, Superhero Movie, and so on, I challenge you to watch this again
when it comes out on DVD, and think about what the "Twilight" saga has
done to the worlds of both literature and cinema. I guarantee you'll
developa new appreciation for this particular one.
<|_=00=_|>
Becca, an anxious, non-vampire teen, is torn between two boys. Before
she can choose, Becca must get around her controlling father, who
embarrasses Becca by treating her like a child. Meanwhile, Becca's
friends contend with their own romantic issues  all of which collide
at the prom.

VAMPIRES SUCK will surprise many people because it's an improvement
over the previous spoof films directors Jason Friedberg and Aaron
Seltzer have been churning out for the past couple of years. However,
that's like saying it's the better crap of all crap. The jokes still
aren't funny and the filmmakers still don't realize the difference
between satirizing and copying. But I would be lying to myself if I
said I didn't find some good that came out of this film because there
are some improvements.

First of all, the performances are great by the two leads. In her first
film, Jenn Proske does a dead on impersonation of Kristen Stewart.
However, it's sad to see her in this because I think she's better than
this. Matt Lanter also does a great impersonation of Robert Pattinson
in his "pain" look. I don't know what made Ken Jeong come aboard the
film but he's basically playing the same character in THE HANGOVER.
He's not in the film that much, though. Also, I think it's pretty great
that Carmen Electra isn't in here and I'm sure others will agree.

The second obvious thing that stuck out to me was that the film focused
on only the first two TWILIGHT films. The filmmakers finally learned
that spoofing 600 movies is a bad thing. Saying that, the film still
does have the many pop culture references, some too random to comment
about. Fortunately, they really did tone it down quite a bit compared
to the previous films where you get one every five seconds. You
probably get one every five minutes here.

I also liked the fact that it looked like an actual film because if you
saw MEET THE SPARTANS and DISASTER MOVIE, you'd know the films were
filled with shoddy sets made up in ten minutes. In here, you might
question if they stole the sets and locations from the TWILIGHT films.
I don't know if this counts as something good but I really think the
film manages to create a decent storyline from the first two TWILIGHT
films.

Overall, the film is still bad because it's rarely funny, although I
will admit I laughed at some bits that took a jab at the TWILIGHT
series. If the story is better than the jokes itself, you know you got
a bad comedy. It's an improvement from the last few spoof films, but
that doesn't say much. I really don't recommend seeing it at all. If
you must, just rent it on DVD that will inevitably come out a month
after the film is released.
<|_=00=_|>
After making the woefully regrettable decision to pay money to see
"Epic Movie", I had vowed to stay far away from this movie and any
other with the word "Movie" in the title. But, because I am faint of
heart and/or an idiot, I allowed myself to be talked into watching a
leaked version online because A) it was actually pretty funny,
according to friends who had seen it already, B) it was only about 70
minutes long, and C) this Edward was actually hot. After watching it
for myself, I would agree on all three counts (especially C.daaaaamn).
It's no great cinematic achievement, but for a devoted Twilight hater
such as myself, it was worth a chuckle or two.

Sure, "Vampires Suck" meets many of the same pitfalls other parody
movies do. It operates under the delusion that anyone out of diapers
thinks that a character being bludgeoned over the head time and time
again for absolutely no reason is comedy gold. It often relies on
stupid pop culture jokes (Look! A Jersey Shore reference! It's funny
because it is a Jersey shore reference!) and unoriginal gross-out humor
(it's funny because you want to vomit! Haha!). But, so help me if I
didn't find myself laughing at the way the film mercilessly mocks
everything laughable about the Twilight movies, a series that, let's
face it, lends itself pretty easily to parody. In fact, all "Vampires
Suck" really had to do was recreate the first two Twilight films pretty
much scene-for-scene, tweaking here and there to make the scenes only
slightly more ridiculous than the originals. The result is actually a
pretty clever send-up of the ludicrously over-the-top melodrama that
Twilight lovers eat up. This film holds a mirror up to pretty much
everything laughable about the series that proves that a wildly
successful book/movie franchise does not necessarily need a "plot": the
rabidity of its fan base; the shameless parade of shirtless males; the
idea that teenage Stephanie Meyerer, I mean, Bella, would be the
object of every hot guy's lust despite being a mopy sourpuss with no
trace of a personality; the insistence that Robert Pattinson is "sexy".
The actress who plays Bella, or "Becca," as she is renamed, does a
killer job parodying Kristen Stewart's mannerisms (hair-tucking,
downward gazes, constant lower-lip biting) by which I mean she mimics
them exactly and everyone laughs at them because they are stupid.
Mocking Twilight is not exactly hard to do, but I have to say this film
does it quite cleverly at many points. I'll even say that the ending is
magnificent.

Needless to say, "Vampires Suck" is for members of Team I Want a Boy
Who Doesn't Want to Kill Me only, as I'm sure Twilight fans would not
appreciate being forced to acknowledge that the thing they love is
dumber than a sack of fruit fly larvae. However, since like I said the
movie is pretty much just a re-creation of the original Twilight
movies, many of the jokes are best appreciated having actually seen
them. So you'll probably like this movie if you are not a Twilight fan,
but have actually seen the movies because A) you were dragged there by
a girl whose pants you really, REALLY wanted to get into, B) you were
stoned, walked into the wrong theater, and failed to realize that it
wasn't The Hangover until it was too late, or C) you are self-loathing
and willingly subjected yourself to them out of morbid curiosity (like
me).

So if you hate Twilight and everything it stands for, take a break from
your violent (yet strangely erotic) fantasies about Robert Pattinson
and Taylor Lautner and go see "Vampires Suck". It will ease your
tortured soul, and maybe, just maybe, restore a molecule of faith in
the parody genre. It couldn't possibly be worse than "Meet the
Spartans".
<|_=00=_|>
So far, the Twilight films have been extremely disappointing and they
have all received pretty low ratings from me. I decided to check out
Vampires Suck, thinking it would be a good laugh. Unfortunately, I
could count the amount of times I laughed on one hand.

The film was full of cheap gimmicks, badly written lines that were not
even close to being funny and actually, much like the Twilight films
themselves, terribly structured with mass chunks of uneventful time
filling. 

The lead actress is a fantastic Kristen Stewart impersonator -
literally every twitch, facial expression and bodily movement is
spot-on. Even her voice is extremely similar! Having never seen her in
anything else however, it remains to be seen how far her acting skills
actually stretch. 

There is really nothing much to comment on, simply because there was
nothing in the film that was really worth noting. Don't bother seeing
this one - simply AWFUL!
<|_=00=_|>
Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer are the single worst filmmakers
currently working in the realm of mainstream cinema. This pair of
writers/directors is responsible for single-handedly destroying the
parody genre. I consider their third film, Meet the Spartans, to be the
single worst movie of the last decade  one which gave us a dozen well
known and lesser known treasures by Uwe Boll. But where Boll shows
ambition and dare I say, "style", Friedberg and Seltzer exhibit
laziness and a lack of purpose. These two hacks throw in dated pop
culture references and steal the work of others, and seem to get away
with calling it comedy.

It is funny to note then that their first movie in two years, Vampires
Suck, is a parody riffing on the Twilight series. The duo gleefully
crib from Twilight and New Moon, providing us with the tale of new girl
Becca (Jenn Proske) who falls in love with the vampire Edward (Matt
Lanter), and all the problems that come with their newfound romance.

My immediate question, before even beginning to try and discuss this
waste of time, is why did Friedberg and Seltzer ever think it was a
good idea to make a parody of the Twilight series? The films are
unintentionally hilarious as it is. And True Blood has been on for
three seasons now, and for all intents and purposes, it is merely a
darkly satirical and much more adult version of Twilight. So right off
the bat, these two brilliant minds are mining at something that has
already been done. I guess it was money, but who would knowingly
believe Twilight fans would rush out to see a movie bashing their
beloved franchise much less the haters who would not be caught dead
seeing the film as it is? 

It just seems overly baffling to me, what could possibly have made
anyone think this film is a good idea. It recycles the unintentional
jokes from the series, and packages them in a way that either rips them
off lightly or just come off as not being anywhere near as funny as
they were before. I chuckled at a few parts here and there, but they
were only mild chuckles. There is nothing inherently funny or stands
out as being hilarious at any given point in the film. Perhaps
Friedberg and Seltzer are laughing  but no one else is laughing with
them. I had the good fortune of not having to see this movie in a
theatre, but I can imagine the film's showings are silent enough that
the filmgoers can hear the projector whirling more than they can hear
anyone laughing.

I will give credit however in the fact that unlike their previous
atrocities and crimes against cinema-goers all over the world, Vampires
Suck does not deviate from its riffing of the Twilight. Characters
still make dated pop culture references (is anyone in five years even
going to remember The Kardashians? I barely know who they are now), but
no one from other films is just thrown into the film at random. The
film never stops to suddenly jump into making fun of another film or
franchise (outside of a total throwaway blink-and-you-will-miss-it gag
involving Alice from Alice in Wonderland). It stays consistent
throughout, and to me, suggests a minor development of maturity on the
parts of the filmmakers. Or of course, they realized there was nowhere
they could possibly throw someone like Justin Bieber or Cobb from
Inception, and not confuse the audience even more than they like
already are.

But this consistency comes with a price. Instead of whipping by, the
film runs at an incredibly slow pace. I fell asleep twice, and somehow
barely missed anything. They do a fairly nifty job of condensing the
first two films, but it seems like they did not do nearly enough
editing and whittling down. The film easily could have felt a lot
faster paced, but it stalls a bit too much in almost every scene. And
for a film that runs less than eighty minutes, it speaks a lot for what
these two filmmakers were trying to accomplish or even what they wanted
to show. If they cannot answer that simple question to the filmgoing
public, then what is the point of even making movies in the first
place? 

You will need to sift through the increasing amount of junk and waste
in Vampires Suck, but Proske is actually fairly good in her role (her
acting debut, sadly). She has the Kristen Stewart impression and
mannerisms down perfectly, and she almost came off as a better Bella
than Stewart ever has. She also has a commanding aura about her, which
suggests she is in store for much greater work in the future. As long
as she runs away from everyone involved here, I am sure she can prove
this soon enough. Unlike her, no one else even remotely stands out or
is even half decent in the cast (Ken Jeong and Diedrich Bader go to
complete waste in supporting roles). They all just go through the
motions, and are just as lazy and half-assed as everyone else. But
then, why should they bother if the filmmakers do not even try? 

Despite being a lot more balanced than any of their brethren, Vampires
Suck is still an awful and truly unfunny film that only further proves
the point that Friedberg and Seltzer need to stop making movies. Even
with a great lead, they still manage to botch the making of this film
and still suffer from many of the problems their earlier films were
plagued by. Years from now, will anyone even remember these films?
Better yet, will anyone want to remember these films? 

2/10.

(This review also appeared on http://www.geekspeakmagazine.com).
<|_=00=_|>
Being directed by the directors/writers of films such as the Scary
Movie films, Epic Movie, Meet the Spartans, etc., I knew that Vampires
Suck won't be good at all, and just when I was getting tired of these
kind of films, I didn't need it to. I only wanted to see this because
it parodies the crappiest crap in the history of crap literature and
crap film. I saw it, didn't really like it, but I was surprised - It
made fun of Twilight, yet it was better than it in every single way!
Like I do with the other spoof films, I only watched this for some
hilarity (which some of you should do instead of bashing it). I
couldn't help but burst out laughing at all the jokes, even if some of
them were predictable. It doesn't only parodize Twilight, but pokes a
tongue at the monotony of teenagers girls who are all manipulative
narcissists, or a soldier of "Team Jacob".

Compared to the forced acting in Twilight, the acting in this was
Leonardo DiCaprio good. Their timing was perfect, they actually had
facial expressions and varied their voice. Cough cough, Kristen. Cough
cough.

The good thing is that it was less boring than Twilight. It didn't
waste its time on boring, senseless conversations - It was more
"action-packed", it had more blood, the vampires actually seemed like
vampires, and yes - You will see its astonishing horrible special
effects that you always find in the other spoof films! Futheremore, the
ending was epic!!! Let's just put it at that - One of the greatest film
endings of all time...

I think this is the second best spoof movie that I have seen
(Spaceballs) being the first. You should give it a try, you won't be
disappointed if you know what's coming.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a girl who moves into a village that is rampant with
vampires. She falls in love with a vampire but she got dumped before
the prom.

Seriously, what is the point of making "Vampire Sucks"? It's like
remaking two films into one, but in a really bad way. The supposed
spoofs are not even spoofs, but are just re-enactment of scenes from
"Twilight" and "New Moon". The story is an amalgamation of the two
films, but it is fragmented and incoherent. Most of the so called jokes
are silly and simply ridiculous. There were a few one liners that made
me chuckle, but most of the jokes were not funny.

Whatever you do, just don't pay to watch this.
<|_=00=_|>
Having had the misfortune of living with a family member who has every
single spoof movie on DVD. I know from painful, bitter experience just
how bad they've become over the years with Date Movie being singled out
for particular attention at just how something so bad ever got released
being beyond human comprehension! So it was with a huge amount of
trepidation and bribing from my friend that I went along to see this
and I have to say I was pleasantly surprised.

Lets get it out there right now, it's not, nor will it ever be Academy
Award material. The hint after all is in the genre name, it's a "spoof"
movie, and to that end it lives up pretty well to expectation. There's
the usual un-PC like jokes in there (baby and bowling ball spring to
mind), the relatively unknown ensemble who end up doing a better job
than the original cast. Jenn Proske as Becca Crane has Kristen
Stewart's awkward-ness down to a tee, whilst Matt Lanter is a far
hotter Edward than Robert Pattinson!

True Twi-hards will HATE it with a vengeance, as it stereotypes
everything bad about Twilight including the whole ongoing Team
Edward/Team Jacob debate, and they'll definitely hate the ending,
although I laughed my head off!

Yes it's completely juvenile humour, yes there are glaring omissions in
the script, it sometimes feels rushed, like they didn't know how to
work a certain scene, so just grazed over it in their hurry to film
another scene that they had worked on, but it's bloody good fun if
you're just looking for a film where you don't need to think, and
you're wanting to kill an hour or so of your time
<|_=00=_|>
I wouldn't have watched this if not for a friend who wanted to catch a
comedy together, though I must admit I'm still pretty intrigued and
amazed at how writer-directors Jason Friedberg and Adam Seltzer managed
to continue get money thrown at them to make terrible, unfunny comedies
such as sub par works like Meet the Spartans, Disaster Movie, Epic
Movie and Date Movie, the last which to me was mildly amusing. Gone are
the days of the Zucker brothers, and now we're stuck with low-brow
efforts like what Friedberg and Seltzer continuously dish out, setting
their sights at whatever's popular genre at the moment.

And that of course is the phenomenon we call Twilight, where it's
already three films old, and taking its cue from the Harry Potter
franchise, decided to split its last book into two films, done squarely
for profits. Poking fun at something popular is expected, but to do so
in the Friedberg-Seltzer fashion just reeks of desperation. They seem
to throw anything and everything into the film, without even due
consideration if it's funny, or not. There are plenty of sight gags,
innuendos, and just plain badly designed scenes that don't flow from
one to another, making it look like a series of school children skits
that got strung together, hammering wooden pegs into rounded holes, and
jokes that's 99% bad, you'll find more pleasure from experiencing long
nails clawed against a chalkboard.

Even more curious is the demographics out to support / watch this film.
As I was understandably surrounded by women of all ages who turn out in
droves to watch the Twilight movies, I was again equally surrounded by
the same demographics for this one in a near full house. Clearly, I
don't think they're that vacuous to, for a moment, think that their
highly anticipated sequel film had arrived, or even remotely suspect
that this is a companion film. I suspect though that for all the spoof
movies out there, there's always a great chance that the impersonators
of their favourite yummy characters will look equally yummy. Sorry to
burst your bubble, but Matt Lanter as Edward Sullen is miles away from
Robert Pattinson as Edward Cullen even though both cannot act, and
Chris Riggi as Jacob White is not Taylor Lautner as Jacob Black even
though both share equal number of pronounced abs (hmm... maybe this
could be a reason, Team Jacob was actually out supporting this?). 

The only thing that was the rare shining light in this film, happens to
be Jenn Proske as Becca Crane, who did an awesome job impersonating how
Kristen Stewart would play Bella Swan, down to all the subtle nuances
that if Stewart decides to leave her role, then the Twilight producers
can plonk Proske right in. It's really uncanny watching her ham up the
Bella spoof, but do note that I'm not praising her performance either
as she's just carbon-copying what another actress had done, although
pitch perfect.

I did laugh out loud here and there, but it's laughing at the film in
how it got away with the stupidest of jokes and the absurdity at who
this project could have been green lit by a Hollywood studio (says a
lot, doesn't it?) I hope Friedberg and Seltzer either learn from the
best in the comedic business, or quit filmmaking altogether. Vampires
Suck sucks. Period. And I'm just feeling dirty having to recount what I
had watched, and to craft a review for it.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, Friedberg and Seltzer. How woefully you are viewed upon by over
half the film world's population today. The films you have made have
been deemed some of the worst ever. However, there are still some
traces of fans out there, whether anyone believes it or not. I, myself,
am certainly not a fan, but I understand both sides of the scale and
review your films unbiasedly. With that said, I have to admit that I
rather enjoyed the latest spoof from these two.

The Twilight phenomenon is an utter joke among many already. A feature
length spoof of the movies seemed like it was bound to happen, but who
would have known it would have been created by them. Some might enjoy
this because they find any mocking of the Twlight films joyous. Some
might enjoy this because they honestly find the antics humorous. Most
will hate it entirely because of the directors. In any matter, I found
it fun because of how well crafted I actually thought it was and how
many times it made me laugh because of how funny the movie managed to
be by working off the films' it mocks cheesiness areas.

Like some have already reviewed saying, this is an improvement in many
ways. Unlike all their other films, this actually focuses on spoofing
just the two first Twilight films and does not rely on criticizing
every film they possibly can as well as making lame pop culture
reference after lame pop culture reference to get giggles, even though
there still are pop culture references in there, they're just not as
lame and are spaced out for our brain's convenience.

Jenn Proske and Matt Lanter are actually incredible, in a sense, in
their performances. Proske covered every Kristen Stewart fault
swimmingly as did Matt Lanter for Robert Pattinson. Even though that's
generally not something to be proud of, it works here. The movie
doesn't linger on humorless side jokes until the point where boredom is
spewing out of our mouths, and the crew captures the essence that I was
looking for in this film. Yes, it has many problems, what Friedberg and
Seltzer film doesn't? It still is entertaining in the right mood, and
just maybe the two have finally started to perfect on what they have
been oblivious to all this time, or maybe I have just gotten used to
their mediocrity, but regardless, I think this film deserves more
appreciation than some Friedberg and Seltzer haters will give it.
