
Wow - this was unexpected. The trailers had me believe that after
'Battle L.A.' and 'Oblivion' this would be yet another bleak, action-
packed, special effects driven Sci-Fi blockbuster about an alien
invasion - what the trailers failed to convey almost entirely is that
over long stretches, this is also seasoned with nearly as much humor as
'Groundhog Day'. That it would invite comparisons with the Harold
Ramis/ Bill Murray classic was obvious, given the time loop premise,
but I never expected to what extent those comparisons would actually be
justified and that this film would really tap into a similar kind of
comedy. Luckily, it is all the better for it.

Most unexpected of all, the main reason the comical aspects during the
first half of the film work so well, is Tom Cruise's character, Major
William Cage. This is easily Cruise's meatiest role since his turn in
'Magnolia' as Frank T.J. Mackey; forget his usual stern, poster boy
heroes: here he plays an entirely different character Â– and he really
seems to relish the opportunity. I won't give away too much, but be
prepared to chuckle and laugh when you see a new side of Tom Cruise.

Yet while this is not nearly as bleak as the trailers suggested, it
certainly isn't a comedy either. And it absolutely IS an action-packed,
special effects driven Sci-Fi blockbuster about battling an alien
invasion (the trailers got that right), albeit one with a funny bone
and great characters. Speaking of which, the rest of the cast is also
very good, especially the gorgeous Emily Blunt. It seems that no matter
what she does, she always comes across as genuine and real; here she
succeeds in portraying her character - a tough, seasoned soldier other
soldiers refer to as "full metal bitch" (no kidding!) - with just the
right touch of vulnerability to make her that much more believable.
Bill Paxton and Brendon Gleeson are always a welcome addition to any
movie, and while they are great (as usual), character-wise, they don't
do anything here that you haven't seen them do before. 

As for the Sci-Fi spectacle that the trailers promised, I'm glad to
report that the film delivers. The battle scenes are beautifully
orchestrated (not the Transformer-style blur where you can't make out
anything anymore), and there are moments when the intensity of the
fighting recalls the landing on Omaha Beach in 'Saving Private Ryan' -
without the gore, obviously (after all, this is PG-13). The design of
the aliens - the production design in general - is incredibly well
done, although I would lie if I said it was something ground-breaking
and new the way the first 'Matrix' was (it IS breathtaking, though).

So my verdict: With one of the most inventive (adapted) scripts for an
original (mega-budget) film in a long time and the best Tom Cruise
we've seen in years, 'Edge of Tomorrow' will have you chuckle and laugh
nearly as much as drop your jaw in awe: this is what Hollywood should
take as a blueprint for exciting summer entertainment henceforth. 9
stars out of 10.

Favorite Films: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054200841/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
<|_=00=_|>
You could describe this movie as a dizzying combination of Groundhog
Day, Starship Troopers, Source Code and The Butterfly Effect. Edge of
Tomorrow borrows from these films and while some of the individual
ideas may not therefore be groundbreakingly original, the way they're
combined and put to use in Edge of Tomorrow by director Doug Liman
certainly is. As aliens have invaded Earth, humanity's only hope lies
in a cowardly PR officer Bill Cage (played by Tom Cruise) with no
combat skills who is sent to the front lines. His only advantage? A
save point, sort of. Are you excited yet? You should be. I don't want
to tell you more specifics about the plot because it's best to
experience and discover this great piece of work yourself. 

You have to love Tom Cruise as an actor, he always gives his roles a
100 percent and he's phenomenal in Edge of Tomorrow - Physical, funny
and determined. I'd say this is his best performance since Collateral.
Emily Blunt is fantastically badass as the poster girl of the war, Rita
Vrataski. This is her first real action film and she knocks it out of
the park. Cruise and Blunt also have great chemistry together. Bill
Paxton and Brandon Gleeson give great supporting performances and most
of the supporting soldiers have distinct personalities even with their
limited screen times. 

Edge of Tomorrow's world building is slick and credible. The CGI and
the special effects are seamless and bring the great set pieces and the
relentless aliens to life. The action is really exhilarating (the cool
exoskeleton suits definitely help here) and the script is very witty
and inventive as it needs to be when you're dealing with time travel
(or time resets if you will). Despite its action thrills Edge of
Tomorrow finds plenty of room for character development both for Cruise
and Blunt. The script also manages to pull off some quite funny scenes
(especially in the training segment). I also have to mention James
Herbert's snappy editing because it's that good. The the situations
could get old really fast if it wasn't for the fast-paced editing that
concisely and freshly shows the differences in each repetition Cruise
goes through. The pacing is absolutely relentless and there isn't a
boring moment in the film. 

The tone of the film is pretty much perfect for a summer blockbuster.
It's not overly morose or gloomy despite the backdrop of an alien
invasion. Instead it opts for wit, fun and action thrills. I was really
gripped from start to finish and I had this big grin on my face when I
left the theater. I really liked the other recent blockbusters in
Godzilla and X-Men: Days of Future Past but Edge of Tomorrow surpasses
them both. If only every summer blockbuster was such good fun.
<|_=00=_|>
After watching the trailer i was really hyped about the movie because
of its theme and potential to be a really good movie. But on the other
side i knew how bad the most potential good movies in the past ended
up. I was scared that they screw it up and give us another Oblivion or
Ilisium with much cgi-effects and bad story and no real story and/or
characters. 

So i took my girlfriend and went in the movie with mixed feelings. But
then, right from the beginning, i knew this movie would be fantastic.
The first minutes really hooked me and i found myself in a funny,
filled with perfect action and intelligent movie. You had the feeling
like you were directly in it and you really feel with Tom Cruise from
the beginning to the end. I don't like Tom Cruise in general but this
role just fits him. Nobody who sees this movie could deny this. From
minute to minute i was more and more in this fantastic story and wanted
to last forever. But eventually the movie ended and i was really
satisfied with everything. 

Two main characters who played perfectly, a fascinating story well told
and really fast and good looking action made it for me the best movie i
watched in a while (and i watch pretty much movies). Even though i
don't like to recommend movies because of different tastes I really
want to do this with this movie. The story is well told and there are
no boring repeatings. Even my girlfriend who normally don't like movies
with much action liked it a lot and added Emily Blunt to one of her
favorite actresses of all time.

Oh well, 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw that Doug Liman was directing and McQuarrie penning, I was
interested. I liked Liman's first Bourne film over Greengrass-directed
nauseating shaky-cam sequels. McQuarrie is a wonderful screenwriter,
and these two seemed like a perfect pair.

I got what I hoped: a movie that doesn't treat me like a 10-year old.
"Edge of tomorrow" is smart, entertaining, exciting and fun. It's an
original movie as well, not a sequel or a remake (although I hear it
might be inspired by a novel or graphic novel).

Tom Cruise - who plays a slightly different character than usually - is
good, he always brings his best. He cares about his projects and
demands to do as much stunts as possible. His passion can be seen here
too and he is again a joy to watch, but this isn't a movie for Cruise
to carry. Liman and McQuarrie carry this movie with smart pacing,
transitions and that certain magic good filmmakers seem to be able to
harness at will.

Emily Blunt isn't a useless sidekick, but a strong and likable
character. Not annoyingly strong on the surface like some feminist
ball-busting fantasy, but a real character and deserves every minute of
her screen time. Bill Paxton was fun to see as a hard-ass sergeant, and
Brendan Gleeson was good as well - even though his screen time is
limited. All the main actors work well together, if a scene is shared.

The movie flows in an interesting way and it likes to surprise you. I'm
not talking about forced twists, I'm talking about that special
situation where you don't know what happens next. I've missed that
feeling. I didn't have to pretend to care about the movie, I was
interested in every minute of it. This happens rarely. And when it
ends, you're satisfied. No setting up sequels, no ambiguous crap, just
a solid, fitting ending.

Unlike Cruise's last sci-fi film "Oblivion", this is definitely an
action movie. At first glance it may look like a generic sci-fi action
film - and granted, sometimes (suits, aliens) it does - but there's
enough personality of its own. Action looks good and the camera doesn't
shake around senselessly. Also, the action never goes into that
overblown mode where your senses get tired and you just don't care
anymore. Well done.

"Edge of tomorrow" is a thoroughly entertaining film. It's "just" a
summer movie, but it's a smart, fun and exciting summer movie. You
don't have to make excuses for its shortcomings to enjoy it. It's
quality filmmaking and certainly a positive surprise.

9/10, will buy on blu-ray. I recommend this to everyone. Avoid as much
spoilers as you can.
<|_=00=_|>
Edge of Tomorrow (EOT for me) will be the most surprising blockbuster
of this year (maybe along with X-Men: Days of Future Past) for doing
its job so well that beats every expectation about what it has to
offer. A storyline about one man that is shown to us doing the "same"
things every time could be dull. But EOT has a thoughtful script full
of turns and fun that entertains and allows to Cruise to do new things
inside that particular Groundhog Day.

I wont spoil anything because the movie is full of valuable twists,
surprisingly good chemistry between Cruise and Emily Blunt (Full Metal
B**ch) and it has an involving script aside of the spectacular action
sequences. The first one in the movie is totally amazing. But the rest
is as that good. The movie clearly develops in the action and the
riveting pace. It offers what a great blockbuster should be and it
reaches that superb goal.

Also Tom Cruise gives his best performance in so many time. Maybe, I'm
not joking, this is his best performance ever. For the first time he is
not doing an smiling hero. He is a coward. He is a scared and
inexperienced soldier who has to learn to be more skillful (and to
escape from his personal loop) every time he returns to the "same" day.
And Cruise is wonderful in that role. You really don't recognize him.
Forget his frequent smiling, his heroic or possible macho topics. This
could be a new and groundbreaking role inside his career even if you
are not a big fan of him (I'm not going as far as saying that this is
his best movie or the most enjoyable one of all, but this movie could
be one of his best ones too). And when a movie has a star doing his job
properly and much better than expected, a great script and a riveting
pace (the movie is never boring) the whole concept has the job done.
And that's the case of EOT. Also the stellar performances from Bill
Paxton and Brendan Gleeson are truly good.

In fact I'm glad that this one came after "Oblivion". That one was
good, but this one is different and much better. Don't expect "Oblivion
2" or its same style because you will be wrong.

Please, trust me and go to the theater to enjoy this wonderful,
original and surprising entertainment. It delivers much more than you
could expect, delivers the best Cruise (in so many time that I
personally think that this is Cruise at his best) and delivers a clever
story with a good twist. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
1. Story-line is perfect. Its a brand new story. No copycat 

2. Almost No Detail miss 

3. Best expression from main character Cage (Tom). He can make us
understand by silence 

4. Good science put in it and its logical 

5. nice visual effect and sound effect, good action 

6. U just can't simply predict whats up next. Believe me, U can't 

7. Repeat-Repeat But no bored cause he innovate his(Tom) movement every
time he dead 

8. Nice chemistry between Cage(Tom) and Emily(Rita) 

9. No stupid Sex and unnecessary romance. Only One nice short kiss at
the right time

10. Nice ending

OK 10 stars
<|_=00=_|>
One of the most ingenious film concepts ever created, a cross between
'Saving Private Ryan' and 'Groundhog Day', 'Edge of Tomorrow' is a
gripping and clever blockbuster sci-fi thrill-ride accompanied with
taut, fast-paced action and compelling direction. Tom Cruise and Emily
Blunt form a perfect chemistry that takes them from the training
ground, to the battlefield through to the action-bound finale in Paris.
The premise of the time-loop has been used many times before, but this
time round there are enough exciting visuals and dynamic storytelling
skills employed to make this one thrilling (and unexpectedly comedic)
flick that is unpredictable and expertly designed. A model of cinematic
craftsmanship.
<|_=00=_|>
Why do we go to the movies? To be entertained, to laugh, to be amused,
to be pulled into situations that are far from ever happening to us.
The only certainty in today's film world that the film that you pick to
watch in cinema is Tom Cruise. If you go into cinema and see any of
Cruise's films you can be damn sure that that film won't disappoint
you. Tom Cruise sure picks great projects. Frankly, I have to say that
I haven't seen a bad film starring Tom Cruise.

Edge of Tomorrow is described by the director himself as "Groundhog Day
meets Starship Troopers". The former mentioned is actually quite
important since the trailers made this film look pretty dark, which is
not the case. This is fun action film with lots of humor. Humor that
perfectly fits this film. The time-loop allows the Cruise's Colonel
Cage to remember exactly the situation he repeats over and over, which
is many times very funny. At films with time-loop I am alway worried
that the film might get repetitive. Well you don't have to when Doug
Liman is at helm. The film has no time to get repetitive when it is
moving at such fast pace. An action scene follows an actions and the
scope is just mind blowing. This film packs in so much in just two
hours. Other films usually keep the best scenes for the big finale. In
Edge of Tomorrow all the action scenes are the best scenes of the film.

Tom Cruise doesn't act as his usual self here, he plays against type.
He always tries to come up with something new in his films. So in what
role you haven't seen him yet? A wimpy coward. He once again shows what
a versatile actor he is. Emily Blunt, as the kick ass Rita, has never
been more likable in any of her films than here. she handles the action
and the drama perfectly. Bill Paxton mostly just repeats his commands
and lines about victory, but he is just so great at that he ends up as
one of the funniest characters in the film 

To me this comes as no surprise, that Edge of Tomorrow is yet another
sci-fi Tom Cruise film, which kick ass from start to finish. What
roller-coaster ride! This will be hard to top in the upcoming summer
season. There is nothing wrong with this film. It's got everything.
Even a helicopter crash!
<|_=00=_|>
With thrilling action sequences, clever sense of humor and surprisingly
intellectual storyline, "Edge of Tomorrow" shows a real deal of summer
blockbuster movie and proves itself beyond expectation especially after
unconvincing trailers. Perhaps the theme and alien character looks
familiar with some popular sci-fi movies but it's still combined
perfectly as an entertainment. Doug Liman as director smartly exploited
're-setting the day' aspect without making it complicated and escaping
it from being dull with some quality combat moments also inserting
lovable drama that is commanded by memorable chemistry from Tom Cruise
and Emilly Blunt have carried whole scenes in it. Overall "Edge of
Tomorrow" feels more satisfying than it might have been in any ways and
shows how the non-sequel-reboot blockbuster movie should be done. It's
definitely much fun than I have ever imagined and pleasurable to
re-watch it over and over again.
<|_=00=_|>
Another sci-fi movie starring Tom Cruise didn't interest me much. The
trailer also didn't give me a clear idea of what this movie was about
which made it even surprisingly good to experience it! The thing about
movies like these is that there's a lot of potential to repeat the same
things over and over and leave the viewer uninterested. However, every
time there was something new so it didn't feel repetitive. There were
also elements of humor that were refreshing. The editing should be
admired.

Without giving too much away, I'll say that Tom Cruise (Major Cage) is
an absolute novice in warfare, who is involuntarily picked for an
assault on aliens who have taken over Europe. To combat these aliens,
the joint forces around the world have developed a armor suit laced
with heavy weaponry. He is baffled as to why he was picked when he
knows nothing about warfare. That part wasn't satisfactorily answered.
The first day after combat, he begins to develop symptoms of living the
same day over and over again. Baffled, he tries to explain the
situation to others who disregard his views. In Rita, he finds someone
who can understand his situation.

There on, it's a thrilling ride of finding out what's causing these
repetitions and finding a means to put an end to it. The movie is fast
paced so no mulling over. Little details of changes in the scenery, how
Cage modifies his behavior both to convince others and to find an
answer, and how events unfold are put forth excellently. I'm sure
enthusiasts can find plot holes aplenty but I found this movie
thoroughly entertaining. If you're in the mood for watching fast-paced
action sci-fi, then I definitely recommend this movie!
