
TL;DR: It was actually boring. There was a story here that had
potential but it was let down by terrible acting, bad dialog, no story
or character development at all and, ultimately, no soul to this one. 

3 points for above average special effects, -7 for just an awful movie.
Netflix this one.

Edition watched: 3D IMAX

In 1996's Independence Day, Bill Pullman's speech hit you emotionally
somewhere. Even if that emotion was disgust, you had a reaction. All of
Will Smith's one liners made you cringe or laugh. No matter how much
you may deny it publicly, Randy Quaid's end put a lump in your throat
the first time you saw it. There was soul to that movie, even though it
was an ensemble cast, characters were developed, the story progressed
and there were heroes you cheered for and aliens you despised.

None of that was present in 2016's Independence Day. All the new actors
were either bad or terrible. I didn't care if the aliens won or lost.
Not only were the new actors bad but some of the dialog they were
forced to work with was just terrible. Jessie T. Usher's character has
a few key lines that are supposed to hearken back to those emotional
one liners from Will Smith in 1996, such as: "Welcome to Earth!". Yet
Usher delivered those lines in such a deadpan, soulless way that made
me wonder if he thought he was supposed to be playing an emotionless
android. Then you have my favorite emotionless android actor Brent
Spiner, who is someone I know to be a quality actor, yet the dialog and
scenes with him were so bad I had to wonder for a second if all his
previous work was done by a twin. 

I could go on, but the acting and dialog were just parts of the
problem. There was no character development at all. They simply tried
to cram too much into this movie. From the constant pandering to a
Mainland Chinese audience (unnecessary scenes that should have been
used for any kind of plot or character development) to Vivica A. Fox's
minuscule screen time, there was too much shoved into this 120 min
movie which ended up making it a big mess that went nowhere. In the
end, I formed no attachment to any of the new characters and was
detached from old characters that I once cheered for.

The most damning thing though is, despite all the explosions and this
alien invasion, there was no excitement. I was bored. There was a girl
in front of me texting and using FB messenger and I found myself
involuntarily lifting my 3D glasses and reading her text chain and
messenger thread till I caught myself and put my glasses back on. Her
inane chatter about how boring this movie was, her cat, the guy she was
sitting next to and so forth were more interesting to me than the movie
on the huge IMAX screen was.

As a huge fan of alien invasion movies, I walked out feeling like this
was such a huge opportunity wasted. If you told me the basic story of
this move yesterday, I would've been ecstatic to see a trilogy. Now I
hope the 3rd one dies in production and they put the money to a Battle
Los Angeles 2.
<|_=00=_|>
It has two good CGI scenes, which you can watch at home some months
from now. The rest is garbage. The movie was cut in pieces that do not
make any sense. But the complete edition is probably not better. It is
BORING, and eminently stupid. Characters explain to the audience the
basic plot five minutes after exposition time. It is an indictment of
what film executives think about people. It is terrible. This movie
needs to bomb, it needs to crash, it must be the point where the
madness of the vapid blockbuster ends. Watch again any episode of "Game
of Thrones" instead. Again, I repeat this point: it is not even fun in
a dumb way. It treats you as a very slow person. You can feel the
people responsible for this laughing at you. Make it stop. Don't go to
the cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those movies where the grown up audience knows after 5
minutes, that the target group is teenagers. Even in the middle of the
movie's major crisis, the whole world pauses, as two young characters
have to talk intimately, because it is just so important, for she's hot
and he's so cute, so the less important end of our civilization will
just have to wait.

Unlike many famous sci-fi movies, this movie is not true to science at
all. If some young script writer thought that it would be "dope" for
gravity to be "defeatable", then gravity is "defeatable", whatever that
means. Small objects that are hidden can be monitored in detail by the
good guys, while objects the size of a continent are completely
undetectable. There are dozens of these examples where the movie makes
no sense.

The humor in this movie has no finesse. Watching it is like being at
dinner with the distant uncle who is not funny but keeps cracking
jokes, though no one is really laughing but him.

Most of the time, the dialogues sound like a wacky parody, in the way
Doc spoke with Martin in Back to the Future. They even copied the Doc
character so directly, that there is an actual long haired, wacky old
man in a lab coat talking in a nutty way while experimenting with
sci-fi technology.

One thing does work, though, the computer graphics are impressive. Most
of the time, the visual and audio effects really shine. It is just sad
that an obviously huge gift budget was spent fully on the wrapping, and
very, very little was spent on the gift inside.
<|_=00=_|>
I was looking very much forward to it, since I'm a fan of the original
(nostalgia based). 15 minutes into the movie I just knew it was going
to be bad.

Made by the same director that made the movie 2012, it has the same
terrible drama and completely transparent storyline. I'm not even sure
if there even is a storyline to this movie.

The worst part, aside from all the crying scenes based upon long
distance relationships, unresolved father issues and what not, was in
fact that the aliens are more primitive than us.

You would think that a race with such insane technology have evolved
beyond petty and shortsighted impulse driven emotions. It's when you
realize that the Queen of the aliens suddenly gets a personal vendetta
against a yellow school bus while fighter planes are bombarding her,
that the manuscript was written in half an hour in a coffee shop.

I really went into this with open eyes and was completely set for
loving it, but no. The movie is just pure garbage. I'm sorry...
<|_=00=_|>
No wonder Will Smith didn't return; he must've read the script. IF
there ever was one.

I cannot recall a film I have seen in five years that I didn't think to
myself: "I HATE THIS MOVIE" over and over throughout. And that started
approximately five minutes in and all the way to the end.

Independence Day: Resurgence was one of the most horribly spliced
together movies I think I've ever seen. Scenes just began and abruptly
end and then back and forth to the point you have no clue where anyone
was or cared who lived or diedincluding all the countless self-
sacrifices. And apparently, I'm not alone as probably one billion
people die in this film and yet, barely anyone blinks an eye and even
continue on with their lazy jokes that never work.

The movie takes place in today's time, 20 years after the 1996 attack
and believe me, if you didn't know the original took place in 1996,
they'll remind you 12 times. The acquired alien technology changed the
face of the Earth, but made everyone even dumber than before. 

Sure enough, the aliens return and supposedly, humans are ready, but
not really and things kind of, sort of fall into place to try and
combat the returning aliens. (I wrote that sentence all over the place
and if you're unfortunate enough to see this, you'll understand why.)

Gone was the heart of the original. Vanished were characters with
depth. And worst of all, a coherent story was lost someplace  if it
ever existed. The only two things that remained were some of the
original's characters who didn't even seem to want to be there and the
speeches in the most inopportune times with zero meaning or punch.

I did laugh out loud at more than a few scenes due to their absurd
attempts to make us care and at other times, I flipped off the screen
on how continuously angry I got. The movie was so ridiculous at times,
I kept expecting Adam Sandler to show up with some of his just as lame
jokes and fall-down pranks. But even he and his sordid career are,
laughably, above this mess.

Not only should this movie be avoided, but it should be pulled from
theatres immediately or, at least, come with a warning: If you loved
the first one. Go home and watch that. Forget this ever existed.

***

Final thoughts: "We had twenty years to prepare. So did they" is the
movie poster's tagline. I disagree. The real tagline should've been:
"We had twenty minutes to both write a script and edit the film. We
apologize."
<|_=00=_|>
How stupid do the script writers think the viewing audience is?

If the movie were made for four year olds, it would be an insult to
their intelligence....

Great first 10 minutes or so then we are expected to leave logic and
believability behind...

Making no sense doesn't seem to bother the director and producers...

The sphere can set up a planet to teach all other civilizations how to
defend against the bad aliens...and it's credentials for doing so?
Their planet got wiped out by said aliens and even the lower
intelligence earthlings, using replicated, imitated weapons ripped from
the bad aliens can shoot it down over the moon...yeah...great teachers
they'll be...

The Queen can survive a fusion bomb blast but her shield falls under
minor weapon fires...

The Queen can control all the alien ships but yeah, let the two hero's
craft shoot at her for fun before taking over control...

And having all her fighters surround her...I guess to offer her
protection...but they just kept flying round and round like an
amusement park ride when the two rogue fighters decide to attack her...

An ex president's daughter who no longer flies can just commandeer a
fighter...to fly alongside her father, who couldn't walk properly in
the beginning of the film but can still fly a new age jet...all the air
forces around the world obviously overdoing their pilot screening a
tad...

The list goes on and on...I can't be bothered to write them all down or
I might be writing an entire new script or story line...

I want my time and money back...as well as compensation for ruining my
fond memory of the first film...
<|_=00=_|>
It is true that when you are young, you see movies like the original
"ID4" from a different perspective, most often you judge them better
than what they really are, and this undeniably is a fact of life. It
holds true for most people. Yet, the original movie, even when judged
by my 41 years old brain now, without considering the nostalgia factor,
and even in all its cheesiness ... still manages to be far far superior
from this absolute garbage!

This sequel really is a let down of epic proportions, and I felt like I
wasted my money. It manages to be what the first movie totally wasn't
...and that can be summed up in one word: BORING. The bad guys ( the
aliens ) are laughably stupid - even more than the first time ... the
main characters could all be replaced by cardboard cutouts of people
and it wouldn't make any difference. Even the CGI is bad... Avoid it at
all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
If this sequel had appeared in 1997 or 98, it would have been averagely
interesting. But in the past twenty years hence, the audience has had
the delight to savor so many other much more superior movies of its
genre (which were ironically spawned by the first Independence Day's
success) - something which the direction of this movie did not bother
to account for, hence we are in for a very badly dated why-bother
sci-fi flick. The original was passably good for its time, and this
sequel is but almost a poor spoof of itself.

Everything from the plot to the mundane cheesy dialogue, un-laughable
jokes, and empty characters, and OK-ish CGI  all cookie-cutter
mishmash from other passé movies. Situations make no sense, neither do
the illogical reaction of the characters, including our supposedly
'super-intelligent' big mother-monster chasing after a school bus for
no real reason apart from the fact its there, like a playful kitten
after a spot of light on the floor. And of course the 'saviour'
alienship with all its bombastic intellect and scientific pizazz comes
right up face-on to be blown to smithereens without doing the obvious
thing of announcing the altruistic reason for its presence  when
apparently it does speak English at that too! Anyway, so so so many
nonsensical senseless situations here, don't even bother to care two
hoots after a while.

None of the characters nor actors have any lasting impression nor
charisma  and the two 'romantic' couples . totally plastic with inert
chemistry. I can almost hear Jeff Goldblum whispering to Judd Hirsch,
"Geez, this movie is just so bad we need to wind-up our exaggerated
gestures and jaw-drops to save it!" 

The original TV Star Trek would be more interesting.
<|_=00=_|>
I recently re-watched the first film and was surprised at how robust
its shelf life is. Again, it is undeniably cheesy and jingoistic, but
done suitably well, I can have a ball with any material. In
"Independence Day: Resurgence", set and finally released 20 years after
the events of the first film, the aliens get medieval on us with an
even bigger mothership.

There's a lot of heroics here by many a character who do their equal
part to stop this new alien menace, having already made a stuffed
calzone of the Earth's crust comprising from London all the way to
Singapore. There's also a refreshingly silly undertone which sets it
apart from the grim and serious blockbusters of today, and with added
Jeff Goldblum and Judd Hirsch who return as the Levinsons, and "Star
Trek" alumnus Brent Spiner as the eccentric Dr. Okun, Emmerich and his
co-writers, including returning scribe Dean Devlin, certainly did not
skimp out on the comic silliness.

Unfortunately, that is where the similarities end. The sins of
sequelitis has been bestowed upon this sequel to his 1996 smash hit,
and Emmerich is to blame, either for his laziness to phone it in out of
frustration to fulfill the fans; or bucking in to studio demand to
condense the film into a mere 2 hours. Sure, lots of things happen in
the film, including stuff and cities going kablooey in high style, and
high-tech aerial dogfights to give "Star Wars" a run for its money.
Even Liam Hemsworth as the new hero Jake Morrison did not annoy me as
much as I expected, though Hemsworth is still a far cry from Will
Smith's "Elvis has left the building!" persona.

However, as slick as the modern CGI is, giving a sleeker look to the
tech shown in the original film, it never quite gels together as a
cohesive film - no momentum, no suspense, no catharsis when it does
end. Bill Pullman's returning ex-President Thomas Whitmore is utterly
wasted, as per his daughter Patricia (Maika Monroe, not doing her rep
from "It Follows" any favours). It is not their fault; I feel that
there is a lot of footage Emmerich was forced to excise by the Fox
bigwigs to get more butts into cinema seats. Perhaps an extra half-
hour of more cataclysmic destruction and character motives, but I may
be asking for a bit too much at this point.

Things are very rushed indeed, with no payoff even when there's lots of
characters doing their fair share to save the day. Goldblum and Hirsch,
however, are still naturals, and they steal every scene they're in, and
lift the movie up from near tediousness. Nevertheless, the special
effects are fantastic, and are most certainly worth the price of
admission alone.

It's kind of sad. This new one promotes global equality, with a female
U.S. President (Sela Ward) celebrating world peace, and with everyone
from across the globe giving it their all to kick E.T.'s ass. The
action is fine and dandy without any of those annoying shaky-cam and
quick-cut edits. And yet, the film suffers from awkward pacing, rushed
dynamics, and especially a lack of cities exploding into fireballs. It
even has sequel-teasing in the laziest manner possible in its final
moments.

To quote Marvin the Martian, "Where's the kaboom? There's supposed to
be an Earth-Shattering Kaboom!"
<|_=00=_|>
Same plot as the first, just bigger monsters, extreme CGI and bad
acting... Why does Liam Hemsworth have a career??? Only positive thing
in this epic t u r d is Jeff Goldblum. He just rocks!

To sum up... Its a disaster and I have never had the urge to consider
demanding a refund, until now. This is just pure cash cow, because they
know is box office due to the franchise.

The thing that is even more terrific is that they cliff hanged it, so
if its a financial success, then rest assure, there will be a third...
God Help Us. God Help Hollywood.

have a nice day!
