
This could have been a fun movie...there is a plot, the casting is
good...but once again, we have a prime case of screen writers who
really aren't. It's as if, in half the movies these days, and this is a
perfect example of one, the writers have no clue as to how to write
dialogue, so they decide to talk dirty for an hour and a half and call
it good. It isn't. It's awful. If this is still the remains of trying
for shock value in movies, it doesn't work anymore. It's boring. It's
dull. It's repetitive. Viewers don't want shock value. We want
entertainment. Somewhere out there in Hollywood land, there have to be
writers who can actually write - who have imagination - who have
creativity. But, unfortunately, none were hired for this movie. Blah!
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone is saying it is the funniest movie of the summer. There was no
humour in this movie. I didn't hear a laugh in the whole theatre. It
was so boring I was waiting for the bomb to go off so the movie would
be over.

I thought from the director of Zombieland it would be a lot better. Can
I have my money back?

The language and sex were a turn off. Near the end it did get a little
better..only because maybe the end of the movie was in sight. Nick
Swardson was the stand out character. If there was comic relief it came
from him. Wait for the DVD to come out save your money.
<|_=00=_|>
The film's plot is just how it is presented, so I will just focus on
where the film fell short despite all the ingredients for success.

I saw the trailer for this and was hoping for a good, not great, summer
comedy. The quality of writing in this genre can be difficult to
predict based on trailers because we see two minutes of footage trying
to bring us to the theater, which often leaves the best jokes spoiled
before the first minute. The main reason I chose to watch 30 Minutes or
Less was because of Jesse Eisenburg. Coming off of his solid
performance in The Social Network and his previous roles in comedy,
surely he is in a position to wait for a good script.

There is a good cast here of actors who have had supporting roles or
just a brief scene in big comedies over the past few years (Aziz Ansari
and Nick Swardson in particular), who outside the comedy circuit aren't
recognizable names yet. Danny McBride is getting perfect at playing
this kind of character (the drug dealer in Observe and Report comes to
mind) who projects the pure alpha male ego and aggression of someone of
authority - all while misusing every quote, saying and fact considered
to be common knowledge.

I just erased a long analysis of my gripes, which aren't necessary to
explain in such detail. The script was just flawed for comedy in my
eyes and no one could save it. Mainly, the movie went back and forth
between crazy but theoretically possible and not trying at all to seem
believable. The characters are sometimes exaggerated kinds of people
that exist and those who cannot, and with whom no one could relate to.
Good comedies require more than lots of good jokes and actors. It all
must come together in some way that works on the level presented,
because context is what humor plays off. The best jokes of the film
could be put essentially anywhere in any film and work the same.
<|_=00=_|>
Jokes are overrated. The best comedies cull humor from character flaws,
and while the cast of 30 Minutes or Less has those to spare, human
foibles have little bearing on the way these people behave. Instead,
it's about one-liners and crass one-upmanship in a string of
exponentially less believable scenarios. First time screenwriter
Michael Diliberti (previously credited as executive assistant to
producer Scott Rudin) blunders his way past a great premise to lowest
common denominator comedy.

Nick (played by Jesse Eisenberg of The Social Network) is a pizza
delivery boy who gets jumped by a pair of goons (Danny McBride, Nick
Swardson), and strapped with a bomb and an ultimatum: rob a bank within
ten hours or face the explosive consequences. Sounds exciting, right?
Wrong.

Zombieland director Ruben Fleischer ignores the inherent tension. The
homemade bomb should be a volatile, omnipresent threat, but there's
never any indication that the device will actually explode. Granted,
I'm not expecting Hitchcock here, but if I can't have suspense, even
logic would suffice. With a whole ten hours on the clock, Nick and his
buddy Chet (Aziz Ansari) idiotically ignore every safer stratagem at
their disposal while playing ball with the crooks.

Part of the problem is that McBride and Swardson are portrayed as such
inept villains, and occupy so much screen time. 30 Minutes or Less, at
90 minutes or less, prominently features these characters out of
necessity to fulfill its own feature-length ambitions. Dramatically, it
makes no sense  is Nick really the type of guy who would steal
$100,000 at the behest of stooges like these?

A better 30 Minutes or Less would have ditched its emphasis on the
antagonists and focused instead on Nick's foiled attempts to extricate
himself from his predicament. As it stands, he seems all too willing to
make himself an antihero: not just in robbery, but in voluntary crimes
like grand theft auto and threatening a cop. It would have been more
believable and exciting if the character complied only as a desperate
last resort. That his roommate accompanies him on the heist is more
asinine still.

As always, if 30 Minutes or Less were funnier, it would be easy to
forgive the injustice done to its premise. The humor is hit-and-miss
leaning toward the latter, and even my eager audience was rendered
deafly silent by many of McBride's big moments. It isn't expressly his
fault  his character just doesn't belong in the movie, and there's not
much character there to begin with.

To draw a comparison, Tropic Thunder ranks among my favorite
action-comedies of recent years because its characters instigate the
plot, not vice versa. In that film, dramatic tension is elevated by the
conflicting egos of its cast. In 30 Minutes or Less, narrative devices
as lethal as Nick's bomb vest routinely hold the story ransom.

But the real robbery isn't a bank job  it's the shameless adoption of
modern comedy's worst habits by Diliberti and Fleischer. From their
casts of emotionally stunted man-children to their disposable
pop-culture jabs and gratuitous bawdy dialogue, the irony of these
R-rated comedies is that they cater to a PG-13 crowd. 30 Minutes or
Less had an opportunity to distinguish itself with action beats, but
the nearest it comes to Die Hard and Lethal Weapon is mentioning them.
Even in a summer with little competition, Fleischer's film is light on
laughs and even lighter on character. Now there's a commodity that's
underrated.
<|_=00=_|>
While the premise of this film leaves much room for hilarity, as shown
by the promising trailer, it was unable to capitalize on this due to
what feels like a lackluster effort on the part of the writers. There
are many tell-tale indications of this, such as in the inconsistency of
the characters. Palpable tension is generated between characters
without any warning, and then it is forgotten by the next scene.

Another glaring issue was the pacing of the story. If you saw the
trailer, you would think it centered around this bank robbery by two
normal guys. However, this is only one small piece of the movie. The
opening was simultaneously slow and somewhat insufficient, then
everything sped up tremendously, and then the latter half of the film
was dragged out to fill up the remaining time needed for the movie to
be taken seriously.

In all, I would rate this film a 6.5/10 since it was still entertaining
and done by clearly talented actors. However, note that this is far
from their best work, probably because the actors were confused about
who their characters were.
<|_=00=_|>
To me, a good comedy is when a movie can make me laugh the entire way
through. Take Bridesmaids for example. An okay comedy is when a movie
has hit or miss moments. Then there's a bad comedy, where nothing is
funny the whole way through. Take the Danny McBride comedy Your
Highness for example.

30 minutes or less, the second film from director Ruben
Fleisher(Zombieland) has a few moments, but not enough to maintain such
a short length. It's an action comedy with some action and not a whole
lot of comedy.

Jessie Eisenberg plays Nick, a pizza delivery guy who is unfortunately
picked by a couple of morons(Danny McBride and Nick Swardson) to rob a
bank for them, and if he doesn't then they will blow him up(they've
strapped a bomb to his chest.

So Nick has no other choice other than to run to his old friend
Chet(Aziz Ansari), a school teacher(doesn't seem right, does it?) to
assist him, and they sort of patch together their friendship along the
way.

The characters in this film are bad people. I don't know who really to
root for. There is a moment where Nick and Chet are talking and they
say that they are a perfect match because they are terrible people.

Also, I just can't find any talent in Dannny McBride. McBride wrote
this year's Your highness, which, I will say, was absolutely dreadful.
Eisenberg and Ansari are likable, but bad people. And the same goes for
Swardson.

Overall, it's The Dark Knight when it's compared to something like Your
Highness, but it's The Love Guru when it's compared to Bridesmaids. I
say skip it, but if you're really bored, give it a go. It does a good
job of taking time. And I didn't mean to throw that pun in there.

C+
<|_=00=_|>
The dumb and sex obsessed Dwayne (Danny McBride) intends to open a
massage parlor with his partner Travis (Nick Swardson), but he does not
have money for the investment. He decides to hire a hit-man to kill his
father, The Major (Fred Ward), who won a large amount of money in the
lottery years ago, but the killer demands US$ 100,000.00 for the job.

Dwayne and Travis kidnap the pizza delivery boy Nick (Jesse Eisenberg)
and they dress Nick with a vest with a timer and several bombs. Then
Dwayne tells Nick that he has ten hours to rob US$ 100,000.00 from a
bank and he would give the code to release the vest. Nick summons his
best friend Chet (Aziz Ansari) to help him in the heist but the scheme
does not work the way Dwayne has plotted. 

"30 Minutes of Less" is a feature lost between comedy and action
genres: it is not funny as a comedy and it is silly as an action film.
The good cast is wasted in a poor screenplay and direction. In the end
of the credits, Dwayne finally opens the business of his own. My vote
is four.

Title (Brazil): "30 Minutos ou Menos" ("30 Minutes or Less")
<|_=00=_|>
"30 Minutes or Less" is a surprisingly dull action comedy starring
Jesse Eisenberg as a pizza delivery guy who finds himself strapped to a
bomb and tasked with robbing a local bank. Responsible for cooking up
his dilemma are actors Danny McBride and Nick Swardson, who play a pair
of delinquent, inept criminals.

The film takes a slow half hour to gets to its high concept, its
romantic subplot feels tacked on, its derivative of the "Crank"
franchise, our heroes and villains aren't particularly well written and
most of its jokes fall flat. The film is sickeningly based on a real
life crime gone bad. This crime was responsible for a famous snuff
video in which Brian Douglas Wells, the man upon whom Eisenberg's
character is based, dies when a bomb around his neck explodes. "30
Minutes of Less" turns this sad tale into stoner wish-fulfilment.

The film stars a number of comedians, one of whom is Aziz Ansari. None
are funny, thanks to a rambling script which mistakingly believes that
shapelessness and lethargic, discursive dialogue are intrinsically
subversive humour. The film was directed by Ruben Fleischer, whose
previous film, "Zombieland", was much better.

4/10  Worth no viewings.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie seemed like it might be funny from the trailer, but
unfortunately it disappointed. There was something about some of the
humor that gave me a sick feeling. There was some sexual humor that was
just weird like the Jesse Eisenburg character nonchalantly watching
Aziz engage in a bored sexual act in the car, pretty much every gross
thing that the Danny McBride character says, the fact that the only two
women seen in the film (besides the people in the bank I guess) are
there primarily as sexual plot points (one is the love interest, but
the think more time is devoted to discussing the time he banged her).
The stripping scene was gratuitous. I find Jesse Eisenburg really
unpleasant in this for whatever reason, and kind of wished the bomb
would go off. I'm not sure why they cast him, because I can't think of
any funny part in the movie involving him, yet he is the main character
and doesn't really seem like a "straight man" character. Danny McBride
plays the same redneck character as always. I found it amusing in
Pineapple Express, but in this movie the character was like extra gross
as was the humor. It just seemed like the movie would only appeal to an
immature male audience. The handling of sexuality as something in and
of itself funny or laughter inducing was just DUMB like a seventh grade
boy wrote it. Not to mention we find the reason that Eisenburg's
character is a loser pizza guy with no girl is that his mom slept with
a lifeguard years ago, hmmm... I would love to do a Freudian analysis
on this screenwriter. Aziz is funny as always and made the movie
somewhat more bearable, although there were some weird moments with the
character that I think had to do with the script. Nick Swardson was
also funny and good in his role. The movie ends (spoiler alert)
immediately after the bad guys die. We have to assume that they are not
caught, and that they are not going to the police given that they were
planning on keeping the money. There is no resolution to the fact that
the father died innocently, what happened with Juicy/Jacqueline or Nick
Swardson or the fact that there is obviously going to be an
investigation into all the dead bodies.
<|_=00=_|>
Jessie Eisenberg stars as Nick, a hapless aimless pizza delivery boy
who's infatuated with his roommate's sister who's talking of moving to
Atlanta. He gets two bumbling fools, Dwayne and Travis (Danny McBride
and Nick Swardson) who strap a bomb to him tasking him to rob a bank or
blow up. So him and his roommate (Aziz Ansari) Go about doing just
that.

You know the real-life story of Brian Wells that this film has a
stinking resemblance to? Well yeah this movie is much more tragic as
this fails as a comedy as I didn't laugh once, nor even a chuckle.
Eisenberg is merely adequate while McBride is... Well McBride is the
exact same type of character that he always is. I felt legitimately bad
for Aziz as his talents are wasted here.

Eye Candy: Bianca Kajlich gets topless
