
When it comes to film, there is no other sport that has delivered such
powerful and emotional dramas on the big screen as boxing. It's the
personal drama they delve into that makes them so relatable to
audiences. That's not to say we've all climbed the Rocky Steps or
assaulted family members as a result of paranoia though. 

Many have been based on true stories and that is certainly the case
with Bleed For This, a film based on the astonishingly courageous real
life experiences of Vinny Pazienza. 

Played by Miles Teller, Pazienza was a World Champion Boxer who was
left not knowing whether he'd be able to walk again after a near fatal
car accident caused severe spinal damage. Rather than let it defeat
him, Pazienza aimed to get back in the ring, setting in motion one of
the greatest comebacks in sporting history.

The biggest draw of Bleed For This are its performances, particularly
the knock-out lead one given by Miles Teller, one of the hottest young
actors in Hollywood today. Teller never loses the cockiness of
Pazienza, even when he faces a life without boxing, turning him into
such a remarkable character.

I really enjoyed the pairing of Teller and Aaron Eckhart as his
trainer, Kevin Rooney. Eckhart hasn't really had much to shout about in
recent years but I do think he's a good actor, showcasing it here with
a good performance. Ciarán Hinds and Katey Sagal deliver fine
performances as Vinny's mother and father, taking me a while to realise
it was even them with the change in appearance.

The best boxing films are the ones that focus more on the goings on
outside of the ring than inside it, and that's where Ben Younger gets
it right with Bleed For This. Yes, a big part of the story is Vinny
wanting to get back in the ring but Younger chooses to focus on the man
himself and how driven an individual he was to get back to his best in
the ring.

Younger also delivers some energetic boxing sequences, using quick
edits and excellent sound mixing to almost feel like you're taking the
punches at times. The brutality of the sport is wince- inducing at
times so the film does warrant its rating however, the moment that had
everyone wincing was when Vinny has the screws taken out of his head
after six months of wearing the halo designed to help his neck recover.
It's a moment that perfectly captures the severity of Vinny's accident
as well as the aforementioned cockiness, Teller playing it for laughs.

If you're a fan of boxing films, Bleed For This is a film you will want
to see. Don't dismiss it entirely if you aren't a big fan of boxing
films because there is plenty to admire in this portrayal of one of the
most inspirational comebacks in sporting history.
<|_=00=_|>
No spoilers here. I went to a screening last night in Los Angeles for
'Bleed for This'.

It's an excellent movie that delivers solid performances from the
supporting cast. Oscar nominations abound. 

Aaron Eckhart comes through with a dead-on take of Kevin Rooney (all
the way down to the walk) and should be a shoo-in for an Oscar
nomination. 

Miles Teller shows a depth beyond his years in his portrayal of the
Pazmanian Devil. 

Highly recommend. 

Gary Randall Craveonline.com
<|_=00=_|>
Miles Teller has become an exceptional actor of his time. I was excited
to see his turn as Vinny Paz, the Boxer with the broken spine. A story
of overcoming impossible odds and agonizing pain seems like a role that
was tailor maid for Teller. When we last saw him, he was getting
slapped silly by an enraged jazz professor. Are we going to get
Whiplash-ed again? Unfortunately, not this time. Among moments of
greatness, Bleed for This is a totally missed opportunity. There is so
much you could do with this material. Why couldn't we go deeper into
the mind of Vinny? Why couldn't we see, in nuanced ways, how tortured a
champion boxer could be when he realizes that he can never fight again?
We do see this almost happening in the painful scenes of Vinny trying
to lift a bar with his severed spine, and the brutal scene where Vinny
gets his headgear unscrewed with no anesthesia. It's so visceral and
awful, you can actually feel the pain. But the rest of the film is a
cornucopia of boxing tropes. It's The Fighter meets Raging Bull meets
Southpaw.. and on and on. You've seen it all before.
<|_=00=_|>
This ain't no 'Rocky' - like some other reviewer said. And I'm clad it
ain't no 'Rocky'. 'Bleed for This' doesn't offer anything new in the
boxing genre, but it still stands as its own. The script is pretty
basic and by the numbers, and mainly carried by the strong performances
of the cast - especially Miles Teller who is just superb as Vinny Paz.
It treats the viewers with some boxing movie clichés (at the moment I
think there is no other way to make them), but they are not too obvious
to ruin the experience. The real life story of Vinny Pazienza is
incredible and in real life he's much more colorful personality than it
was depicted in the film (so were some other characters). In that
department, the film played little safe. Of course it's only a movie (a
near good one), and it has to leave some room for fantasy and drama.
Another thing I liked about the film is that it didn't do much over
dramatization like most of the based on true life films (and sporting
films in general) tend to do. 'Bleed for This' isn't the greatest film
of the year or not even greatest boxing film, but it's one of the best
that has come out in recent years. I'm sure this film will gain more
appreciation over time.

Of course to me, who I'm little boxing enthusiast myself, I always get
hyped for another boxing movie. 'Bleed for This' is quite well
balanced, paced and acted sporting drama that is definitely worth
giving shot at.
<|_=00=_|>
Bleed for This a sports drama based on the champion boxer Vinny
Pazienza and the accident that almost left him paralyzed. It does not
stop him on the road to recovery in training to get back into the
boxing ring. These films are suppose to make you feel a little
inspirational seeing real life situations happening to real people. The
film does show very little for the inspiration. 

Vinny (Miles Teller) is a cocky boxer, who rigs his body weight to meet
the requirements. After the car accident, that leaves him wearing a
halo ring on his neck for six months to recover. And the doctors
telling him he is unable to ever go back in the ring. He spends his
day, eating junk food, watching day time TV, going to strip clubs, and
hanging out with his personal trainer Kevin (Aaron Eckhart). Vinny
decides that he needs to work harder to train himself to get back into
the ring against the doctors wishes. 

The positive things about Bleed for This is it tries to have a fun
sense of 1980s direction with the music soundtrack. Also, the
inspirational true story about a boxer never letting a severe injury
from stopping him to doing what he is inspired to do. The climax of the
boxing match as Vinny is risking himself from severing his spinal cord
from a single bad throw that can paralyze him was cringe worthy. Also,
Miles Teller did a great job in portraying Vinny Pazienza. Aaron
Eckhart playing a balding out of shape trainer was also good. 

The negative thing about the film besides knowing how the turn out and
what will happen to the character ends. I felt like the direction could
have been a little stronger with its inspirational tone. The film does
so well in trying to have a fun 80s tone, or delivering great
performances with the cast. To make you feel for the moment and making
it memorable unlike the others does not have much going for the movie.
It can get pretty slow in the middle of the film until Vinny tries to
lift weights while recovering. The music score Julia Holter does so
little in making a memorable score besides having a couple of beat down
80s song. 

Overall, Bleed for This is a fair sports drama film that has good
talent, and an inspired concept but does so little with trying so hard
on making the movie emotional. The hard recovery the boxer went through
will be inspired as a strong motivation but the film sadly will easily
be forgotten. I will rate the film 3 out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I go to the movies nearly every week with a movie group.  This group of
guys is notorious for checking out every sports movie that comes along,
so when a film about Champion Boxer Vinny Pazienza was announced, I
knew that this would be on the docket.

And, I'm glad it was, for the most part.

BLEED FOR THIS tells the remarkable true story of a Boxing Champion
who, after winning the championship, suffers a broken neck in an auto
accident.  Doctors are concerned if he 'll ever walk again.  Pazienza
is concerned with something else - will he ever fight again.  

It's an incredible story, one of true "triumph of the human spirit"
that was just waiting to be told on screen and with the intense Miles
Teller in the lead role, this movie had the makings of something
special.  Joining Teller with strong performances are Katy Segal (as
his mother), the always good Ciaran Hinds (as his father) and my new
favorite actor, Aaron Eckhart, off his strong supporting performance in
SULLY , with another strong supporting performance as Pazienza's
trainer who sticks with him the whole way.

With these ingredients sitting there, this film was poised to be very
good and since it was written and directed by the same person - Ben
Younger (Boiler Room) - it was going to have a very specific, personal
focus.

And that's where this movie falls short.

Younger, I think, fell in love with his script and was duty-bound to
put every word, every gesture, every thought on film - and this drags
it down.  We are treated to long periods of Teller, as Pazienze,
struggling, thinking and working out on his own.  Not the items that
make for great drama and by the time we get to the climactic fight at
the end of the film (name me a boxing movie that doesn't have a
climactic fight at the end of the film), I just didn't care enough
about the outcome to be excited, I just wanted it to be over.

Overall, a "good enough" time.  If you enjoy sports films - and
especially if you like boxing films - then you'll like this.  If you
like fast action and stirring conflict, you might want to look
elsewhere.

6 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank (ofMarquis)
<|_=00=_|>
After some big hits and more than a few misses, the boxing film has
been a long time staple of our multiplexes and a sub-genre of sporting
film that has provided us with some of cinema's all-time great feel
good or dramatic experiences.

For each new boxing film that comes out, they now need to work harder
and their punches need to land a bigger impact than the one before them
and sadly Bleed for This doesn't manage to climb above its genre tropes
to become anything more than a tolerable boxing drama that's void of
the emotion that makes similar films like Rocky, Raging Bull and Creed
work on a whole different level.

Telling the true life story of famous 1980's American boxer Vinny
Pazienza, Boiler Room director Ben Younger netted himself quiet the
double bill of rising star Miles Teller to play the determined and
feisty Pazienza and an overweight and balding method partaking Aaron
Eckhart as Pazienza's friend and trainer Kevin Rooney but Younger and
the well-regarded duo fail to connect us emotionally to Pazienza's
fight to overcome an horrific car crash injury to box once more.

Both performers are solid in their roles, even if they feel more like
imitations rather than full-fledged flesh and blood reincarnations but
we're never allowed deep into what makes these two different figures
tick and despite the trial over adversity nature of what's often
occurring within Bleed for This, at the end of the day without the
emotionally investment it's too easy to not care.

The film as it stands also marks another disappointing experience from
Teller in particular, who it could be argued goes a little to "awards
baiting" here in his turn as Pazienza There's nothing majorly wrong
with his performance but after Teller's early breakouts in films like
Whiplash and The Spectacular Now, the failure as a whole of Bleed for
This alongside recent Teller events like Fantastic Four, Get a Job and
the Divergent series mark a point in the young actors career when he is
all of a sudden crying out for a decent hit and an individual role that
once more utilises his undeniable talent.

Final Say  

There's nothing in Bleed for This that makes it a must-see. For the
most die-hard of boxing fans and those that consider themselves
Pazienza fans Younger's film may be worthy of your time but for the
rest of us, we've seen this type of boxing tale before countless times
and with nothing new on the table presented here, it makes Bleed for
This an instantly forgettable and rather unnecessary experience.

2 screws out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
I think Miles is the only one trying to act in this movie and not
pantomime his character like other's seem to do. I get the whole New
York/New Jersey thing but come on, not every girlfriend is slut and not
every Sister is a bully. If this was portrayed in any of the promos, I
wouldn't have watched it. I can't stand loud, bossy, bullying women or
the men who are around them. If Vinnie was like this in real life, then
he truly was and still is an inspiration but his family of women were
not entertaining to watch. My guess is that he had to placate them even
on film. Other than that, the movie is alright on it's own as his true
story of over-coming pain, disappointment and a strong need to feel
validated. I don't say vindicated because he was already before his
accident, he just couldn't stop until HE was ready.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on a true story, Vinny Pazienza overcomes a terrible car accident
to return to the sport he truly loves, Boxing. I was a bit hesitant to
see this movie because of all the previous movies about fighters.
However the director quickly immerses you into Vinny's world and you
are immediately hooked. What I liked most about the movie was how all
the characters were so believable. The close family relationship, the
mother's ritual when all the relatives are glued to the tube, the
family dinners, ornaments etc. Everyone has a lot of soul and
individuality. Vinny's determination is all important, but he has the
affection and love from friends and family. Most of all he has his
coach, portrayed by Aaron Eckhart. A man who is fighting is own demons
of being a has been, wanting a winner, but also knowing that a coach
must do what is best for those under his charge, regardless of what is
best for him or others.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an excellent movie even for people that don't really enjoy
boxing. This movie goes way beyond the sport. It's the mindset behind
it that is portrayed. If you feel down and needs a heads up: this is
the movie to watch!

After this movie, ask yourself again, what are my goals? Once you
figured that out, it is easy, just do it, and ace it and never look
back just focus on your goal and never stop.

I know it is easier said than done, there are going to be hurdles
trying to stop you, but you just need to keep going. 

you are the star
