
As the film is titled 'Jackie' you expect to learn more about her
through the film, it should have been called 'JFK's widow one week
following his assassination'. This is a woman who was powerful and had
a background, a life, buried two babies. All we get from this film is a
portrayal of a grieving, often selfish and self absorbed woman who
smokes and drinks too much. Who wouldn't fall to that after something
as traumatic? The film is flat and bland, it gives us no indication of
the type of woman she was, her role in white house (aside from her
expensive renovations and insistence on a huge funeral for her husband)
We see nothing of her personal achievements. Natalie Portman and the
excellent cast's acting skills are the only interesting thing to watch.
Disappointing and does 'Jackie O' no justice at all.
<|_=00=_|>
Throughout the history of cinema, there have been countless biopics of
famous figures that deify their subjects and disregard faults in fear
of tainting the idol they have so perfectly sculpted. In Jackie,
however, Pablo Larrain subverts genre expectations in favor of a
haunting psychological portrait of a woman caught in a terrifying piece
of history. Famous images of Jacqueline Kennedy in her pink Chanel suit
have lingered in the public's collective memory for years, but here,
Larrain allows viewers to experience the week following JFK's
assassination from the perspective of the woman who held his dying body
in her arms. It's shot in an episodic, frantic format that replicates
the psychological turmoil of post-traumatic stress as the line between
past and present blurs. One ghostly scene in particular - soundtracked
by Mica Levi's eerie score - follows Jackie as she wanders the White
House in isolation, exploring various rooms and eventually falling
asleep alone as a widow for the first time. The film's central
performance by Natalie Portman will no doubt gain great attention for
its dedication to every last nuance of Jackie Kennedy's mannerisms and
voice, but the real success rests in Portman's relentless and layered
conveyance of emotion throughout the film. She does not allow the
iconic figure to become a one-dimensional reflection of the public's
memory, but allows viewers to witness the conflicted feelings of
nostalgia, grief, isolation, and tenacity that Kennedy experienced. The
film successful solidifies the lingering of Kennedy's melancholic face
as a fleeting vision set across the 60s horizon, luminous and bruised
at once, but enduring through history.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen many critics and commentators praise Jackie for being an
accurate, intelligent, and insightful depiction of Jackie Kennedy and
I'm a bit flabbergasted by this. This film came across to me as highly
speculative, overly melodramatic, and distant all at the same time.
Many of the film's techniques are praiseworthy, but this ultimately
doesn't reach the level of a biopic like Patton or Malcolm X.

Jackie follows the life of Jackie Kennedy (played by Natalie Portman)
during the days after her husband's assassination. The film's framing
device is an interview of Jackie with a journalist (Billy Crudup) at
her home after the assassination. She imparts her story to the
journalist to set the record straight about her life and her family's
legacy. She is extremely controlling during the interview, telling the
reporter what he can and can't write about her (even at one point
saying she doesn't smoke while smoking a cigarette). The film flashes
back and forth between the interview and the days after the
assassination, focusing on Jackie's grieving. After showing the initial
events after the assassination, Jackie tries to stave off a nervous
breakdown while grappling with what her life means without her husband.
Without him, she almost feels like her life is a waste. To handle this,
she becomes obsessed with building the Camelot myth around the Kennedy
family. She wants the Kennedys to be remembered as a grand, romantic
family with a good legacy. She accomplishes this in part by planning a
grand funeral for her husband against the wishes of the secret service,
who desire a more modest ceremony for safety reasons.

I have no doubt that Jackie was instrumental in building the mythology
around JFK, and it's not a stretch to believe that she wanted to
validate her own life in some way by doing this. Finally, she must have
went through some kind of PTSD after the assassination. But the film
attempts to show all of these things in ways that are indulgent,
exploitative, and melodramatic. Take a scene where Jackie listens to
Richard Burton's performance of Camelot while trying on various stylish
dresses she had worn in the White House, all while sobbing
hysterically. Or a scene where she admits to a priest that she might
have planned all of the pomp and circumstance during the funeral to
make her feel good about herself. These scenes feel like they came out
of a National Enquirer article rather than a decent biography. Just
five minutes of research will show that Jackie didn't even plan the
funeral Â– it was planned by Robert Sargent Shriver. This film is all
about mood, not accuracy. Needless to say, Jackie's vanity in this film
is probably a tad bit exaggerated, and I question the veracity of
pretty much every scene in the film. 

These flaws may have been somewhat forgivable if I felt like the
character Jackie really came to life at any point, but I don't think
she did. Using the interview as the framing device was a bit clumsy,
and it's one of the many elements that really prevented me from being
fully absorbed in the film. While the film is clearly trying to make
points about Jackie's character, I feel like I'm being told about them.
I don't feel them. But the cold distance between Jackie and the
audience is partially because of Natalie Portman's performance. While
her performance has been praised left and right, I found it to be
overly rehearsed, almost mimicry. In a good biopic, there has to come a
moment where the actor becomes the historical figure, and I don't think
that happened here. I could say the same for the film's second largest
part, Robert Kennedy. Peter Sarsgaard does not look or sound a thing
like RFK. 

The movie isn't all bad. For all the flak I've given Portman, her
performance is good overall, just not as good as her Black Swan
performance in my opinion. The director Pablo Larrain uses close ups
very effectively (in some of Portman's best moments), and he seamlessly
blends archival footage with reenactments. There is a scene where
Jackie looks out the window of the limousine at her husband's funeral,
and the reflections of the people watching the funeral motorcade on the
window looked an awful lot like archival footage to me. Real archival
footage or not, it was an impressive effect. The score by Mica Levy is
also haunting.

Jackie was a pretty disappointing experience for me. It's more like an
exercise in artistic filmmaking than a good story. Ideally you get both
from a film. Not so here. I would wait for video if you want to see
this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never taken the time to write a review for the site. But this
movie... is just too overrated. 

The struggle with this movie is based around the character. I am not
totally familiar with the actual personality of Jackie Kennedy, but I
walked out of the theater absolutely despising her. She acts as if she
is in the toughest position in the world, and as if nobody has ever
lost a family member before. Consistently, she displays a lack of
understanding that others just lost someone they knew as well. I
understand that we are supposed to feel compassion for her, but I just
do not.

The film is a genuine trudge, with a cacophony of minor chords making
up what could be called the "theme." The soundtrack is grating, and so
is the rest of the movie. The only redeeming qualities of the movie is
a very solid performance by Peter Saarsgard, and an appearance by John
Hurt. 

Portman's performance is genuinely overrated, with small flashes of
quality and an overwhelming amount of "cry face". 

Overall, just not worth the hype, and a trudge through 90 minutes that
felt much longer.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie mainly because I had read rave reviews of
Natalie Portman's performance, which according to some, will certainly
win her her second Oscar.

I cannot adequately express my disappointment in the movie and in
Portman's performance. The first thing that bothered me was the
horrible accent she had put on. I don't know if Jackie Kennedy really
spoke this way but it felt forced, artificial. She was good at
expressing grief, but I was unable to feel any sympathy. This is
shocking, considering how devastating the event - JFK assassination-
was to the whole country.

In this movie Jackie came across as self centered, which can be
forgiven, considering the magnitude of her loss. Natalie Portman
couldn't touch me emotionally. The frequent close ups were annoying. We
know she was devastated, but it was unnecessary to show closeups if her
blood stained face, crying and tears again and again. 

The worst part of the movie was the interview which went into the past,
in segments, asking how she felt, and Portman's acting in those scenes
was way below her ability. Natalie Portman is a good actress, but in
thus movie she felt artificial. It was totally unnecessary to create
the interviews. If the point of the movie was to show Jackie Kennedy's
feelings and courage at the worst time of her life, a more direct
approach might have worked better. The screenplay, background score,
direction were all deficient in putting life into this tragic story. I
couldn't wait for the movie to end.

The saving grace was the costumes and the White House interior at that
time. They were wonderful. Acting wise no one other than 'Jackie' had
much room. The screenplay certainly didn't help.

The whole movie felt like someone wanted to create a movie that would
show Natalie Portman on the screen all the time. Sadly she remained
Natalie Portman to me. She never felt like Jackie Kennedy.
<|_=00=_|>
Admittedly I have never been much of a Natalie Portman fan. That being
said, I think it was pretty ballsy of her taking on an American icon,
and her work, particularly in trying to get Jackie's "breathless"
voice, is commendable though NOT Oscar-worthy.

Just too many long camera shots - five minutes to watch her from behind
walking through rooms of the White House...several times I caught
myself yawning. The expressionless face of Billy Crudup as the
interviewer - yawn again - and absolutely abysmal minor chords
pretending to be a movie musical score, more jarring than anything on
screen.

Having just watched The American Experience's terrific RFK documentary
a week or so ago, I was struck by why the director would chose a
fifty-something, tall, heavy-set actor to play a 34 or 35 year old
slim-ish, not very tall Bobby Kennedy - the actor showing almost no
emotion at all when Bobby was known to flair up, shout, and when moved,
express his emotions.

The reason I give this a 3 instead of a 2 is the lovely performance by
John Hurt as the priest. I did not recognize him until the last scene.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not really familiar with Pablo LarraÃ­n's work. I hadn't seen any of
his other films prior to watching Jackie. And yet I was still very
excited for it because it sounded like something that was absolutely my
cup of tea. Hearing reports that Academy members weren't liking it very
much, and then hearing exactly why (because it wasn't your usual biopic
and seemed to be more "out there" than most biopics) just got me more
excited. It didn't disappoint at all. It was basically everything I
wanted it to be. One of the finest, truest character studies of the
year, completely driven by explorations into Jackie Kennedy's psyche.
That sounds kind of pretentious, but I do think this film more than any
other of the year deserves to be described that way. I would absolutely
not be surprised if the Academy doesn't go for this at all, but I do
wish it was popping up in more critic awards than it has been. More
than any other film of the year it rests completely on its lead
actress. Portman is just completely engaging and mesmerizing, and she
adds to the film's poetry-like storytelling. Having seen both Portman
and Emma Stone, I would be surprised if they gave the Oscar to Stone
simply because Portman is basically her entire film and she's also
completely immersed into the character in a way that Stone doesn't need
to be. The latter's role may just be too light. Regardless, it's a
performance to be talked about and remembered. 

I appreciate when I leave a film feeling as though there's still so
much left to unpack and to uncover about it, meaning that I wasn't able
to completely discover all of its aims and goals in one viewing. To me
that's the sign of a very well thought out film, a film that will leave
a lingering impact. That's exactly how I came out of this. I'm sure not
everyone here will take to it, but count me as one of its fans.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at TIFF and haven't been able to get it off my mind
since. Natalie Portman is brilliant in her portrayal of someone who is
both uniquely strong-minded and painfully insecure. The portrayal of
this type of personality at a time (the 2-3 days following JFK's death)
where personal and national perception was everything is unlike
anything I have seen in film.

Between script, art direction and cinematography, this movie is equally
brilliant in its ability to say everything without saying anything. I
can't recommend this movie enough. I don't doubt that we will be
talking about it come Oscar season.
<|_=00=_|>
We went to the theater expecting interesting but sad biopic of an
enigmatic woman. Well... my husband and at least a couple of other men
in the theater fell asleep, at least when the noisy and creepy score
did not keep them awake. It is difficult to tell what explains the
discrepancy of the overall positive reviews and our clearly
disappointing experience. We felt that the reason why the story was
told was not clear to the writers and director. It is difficult to
understand how the movie was so boring when everything you read about
the Kennedys is interesting. Natalie Portman really tried to be
convincing but the acting was forced and you could smell the hours of
training. The accent of Jackie Kennedy was really weird even though it
tried to resemble the original way of her talking. I overheard one
couple discussing when we walked back to the parking lot:" It was
rather static. - Yes, and psychotic." I am not sure if they understood
the meaning of the words but weirdly it made sense. Overall the
photography and costumes were beautiful and all other actors were
convincing. In conclusion, the lack of connection with the viewers was
evident despite the overall high quality.
<|_=00=_|>
There are few films that I question the necessity of making in the
first place. Jackie, a historical drama chronicling our former first
lady's practical and emotional reactions to the events leading up to
and during the funeral of our 35th president, is one such film. What
possibly can be learned about someone's life chronicling the time
period leading up to a funeralÂ—an event where any person would be most
vulnerable? 

Instead of perhaps imagining what kind of relationship Jackie had with
Jack Kennedy when he was alive, director Pablo Larrain prefers to bring
us pale imitations of historical TV broadcasts (such as Jackie's famed
1962 televised tour of the White House) or the more salacious exploding
head of JFK when he's hit by the assassin's bullet (haven't we seen
enough of that on Youtube in clip after clip of the Zapruder film?).

Larrain, utilizing a screenplay by Noah Oppenheim, creates a fictional
framing device, an imagined interview between Jackie Kennedy and a
fictional reporter (played by a somewhat unkempt Billy Crudup) at
Hyannisport, asking a slew of inappropriate questions of Jackie
regarding her recent recollection as to the the events leading up to
JFK's funeral.

Even if one concedes there is a necessity in presenting such a behind
the scenes look, there has to be a determined verisimilitude in the
presentation. Actors have to look and sound like the historical
personages they're playing; otherwise, the events won't seem real at
all, and one will get the impression that we're looking at a mere
imitation of the events as opposed to the real McCoy.

The number one offender here is of course Natalie Portman, who does
fairly well in re-creating Jackie's way of speaking which reminds one
of a muted Carol Channing, but is unable to convey any of her poise or
gravitas. Instead, she aims to present Jackie as a neurotic, perhaps
made more unhinged by the assassination. Mick LaSalle, writing in the
SF Chronicle, hits the nail on the head when he writes: "But no insight
can be gleaned or arrived at through a portrayal of Jackie Kennedy as
having been a fragile, emotional cripple at the height of her influence
and popularity. Once that happens, we're just not talking about the
same woman anymore, and all that's left is an actress playing dress-up
in a bloodstained pink Chanel suit and a pillbox hat."

Worse than Portman is Peter Sarsgaard as Bobby Kennedy. In perhaps the
worst casting choice in a few decades, Sarasgaard doesn't look or sound
like Bobby in the least and appears as a strange interloper opposite
Portman. John Carroll Lynch as LBJ also doesn't feel like he inhabits
the body of our former president but Beth Grant is great as Lady Bird
and Caspar Phillipson is decent enough as JFK, during the brief scenes
in which he appears.

In addition to the salacious moments of the assassination itself, the
Jackie "plot" mainly focuses on her indecision as to whether the
participants at the funeral should walk with the casket, causing
security concerns. There are more effective moments where Jackie must
explain JFK's death to Caroline and John Jr., but even those somehow
feel intrusive, even after all these years. Speaking of intrusive,
director Larrain is determined to inject Mica Levi's overly mournful
music into almost scene, reminding us that we're continually in the
midst of a funeral.

Only the late John Hurt as a consoling priest to Jackie brings any true
gravitas to the overall proceedings. 

If you wish to learn about Jackie Kennedy there are many documentaries
and features that are way better than this one. Kyle Smith writing in
the NY Post perhaps provides the most efficient benediction for this
hapless project: "Jackie" does more than a disservice Â— bordering on an
insult Â— to its subject: It's so obtuse about the history of mores that
it's the equivalent of showing Abraham Lincoln reading the Gettysburg
Address off a teleprompter."
