
I'm still trying to figure out why this film left such a weird taste in
my mouth. It's odd, coming out of a film and having NOTHING to say
about it. Possibly, it's because almost nothing happens. They throw a
party. It goes bananas. Stuff gets set on fire. Nothing you can't
divine from the trailer.

It took me a while to realize why. There was a gaping whole at the
center of this film. The message - nothing really matters, everyone
should do whatever it takes to be cool, skinny, popular, etc. And there
are no consequences. Self-destruction presented as empowerment.

This is nothing new, and I'm too young to be seriously offended by this
sentiment, but Project X takes it to a higher pitch than ever before.
It's like watching a stream of Facebook threads, links and comments fly
past for 90 minutes. Intercut with whoops and heavy bass-lines. It
doesn't feel like a music video. It is a music video. And about as
satisfying.

It's made in the image of John Hughes films, updated for the Ritalin
generation, but it moves too fast. I found myself wanting to say 'How
about that scene where ... ' but realized that there were no scenes I
found funny enough to bother recounting.

I know how this all sounds. Like a hater. But it's not. I just didn't
care. There was nothing to care about. Nothing I hadn't seen in a dozen
music videos a dozen times, but now, with a couple of fat kids thrown
in. The only thing that leaves me wincing is the overtness of the
film's nihilism. Screw everything. And everyone. This is the image of
themselves these Socal kids are getting presented with. If it plays
well at the box office - which it will, and nothing I can say will
change that - it's the kind of thing we'll see more of. And more of.
And more of. The same thing. Over. And over. Again.
<|_=00=_|>
I know when to appreciate a movie with real meaning, and this is not
the case. If you take this movie on face value - a humorous pure
popcorn movie with no hidden meanings to teach you the values of life,
it's pretty good. I don't see why it's getting bashed because for what
it is, it was entertaining and funny. Before you go in to see this
movie ask yourself what exactly you want to get out of it, if it's 1
hour and 20 minutes of mindless entertainment, then you're set. If,
however you feel Project X will leave you pondering life and everything
around you, this movie is not for you. Don't listen to the old people
on here who knew what they were getting themselves into and still paid
and saw the movie only to turn around and rate it poorly because it was
below whatever expectations they have for a party movie...
<|_=00=_|>
I walked into this film thinking this film is going to be a rip-off and
be a stupid predictable party movie. Though some things were obviously
predictable but isn't all comedies predictable.

Though critics have rated this film horribly I think they are wrong you
have to look at this film for what it is supposed to represent. Mostly
15-25 year olds appreciate the film. But some people have to understand
not every film is made for everyone and not every film has to be Oscar
material.

As for the movie itself I loved it, it was a different way of showing
partying in a movie. The film has some type of feel to it like when you
finish it you feel you were at the party. Some people may complain
about the sex, drugs, nudity, etc in the film but one thing that made
this film unique is the power of them 'going there' like going way over
the top making the craziest things happen in it.

If you basically do not have a sense of humor I do not recommend this
film but if you have some fun in you and understand what it is like to
be a teenager in this generation you will like it. Also I know some
people say the film is not realistic in ways but it is one of the best
movies to show how teenagers party there are teens that have partied
like this but without the over the top ending it is very realistic.

The found footage idea for this film is what made it better a new
concept and it is finally being used for a comedy an excellent job.
Though I hope this film becomes a hit because I feel it is highly
underrated it is no different from the 80's-90's party movies the only
difference is 'Project X' shows everything that happens at parties.

You can say the fans of the film are immature but the film is worth
seeing. Also it is nothing like 'The Hangover' nor 'Superbad'. Though
the film is funnier and more over the top than the hangover. This film
is just another classic that was supposed to happen but won't it has
too many mad reviews.

I give this movie a 9/10 a perfect comedy and a good way to show what
happens at parties. Interesting to see what happens through out the
movie, it is very intense so you will be blown away at a lot of scenes.
May contain lots of nudity and outrageous behavior but at least the
film had the balls to make it right. Please see the film first before
you hate a lot of you are missing out.
<|_=00=_|>
like many have said before me, if you are going into this movie
expecting some potential Oscar material you will be sadly disappointed.
The best way to approach this movie is to not expect anything at all
but a bit of over the top entertainment provided by an out of control
high school party. If you are too old to remember the days when you
were in high school and attended a party that seemed to get a little
bit crazy, I would not watch this movie. I think you need to have had
some kind of crazy party experience in the past in order to take that
event in your mind and multiply it by 100 times. But you won't HAVE to
create that scenario in your head, because that is exactly what project
X does for you. 

There really is not much of a story. But that being said, there are
some theatrical elements that will set up for scenes later in the
movie. So in that respect there is a sort of a story line and a decent
attempt at unfolding events. 

The characters aren't THAT bad. There is some character establishment
although they may not be entirely likable. While they do establish the
characters, there is not much development. Right from the beginning of
the movie you get a good sense of the characters and that is what you
can expect the whole movie. I didn't think the secondary characters are
too horrible either. The 12 year old security guards, an angry midget
and the angry drug dealer all create for some great mind numbing
entertainment. 

Basically if you are over the age of 35 MAX, depending how young
hearted you are. Or if you can't recall a crazy high school or college
party experience to relate to, I would not recommend this movie. People
are going to talk trash on this movie, because they were expecting
something more upon going to see this. DON'T! Some people ask a lot out
of movies. They need plot twists and turns surprises and thrills. This
movie does contain some of that but in a dumbed down, mind numbing
fashion. So don't expect anything other than some wild, over-the-top,
epic party experience of the century and you should be OK.
<|_=00=_|>
We have all heard the horror stories of parties being posted on the
Internet with events spiralling out of control. This story idea serves
as the basis for Todd Phillips' (The Hangover) latest movie, Project X,
which he produced. He intended it to combine teen comedies/party movies
like Old School with found-footage films such as Paranormal Activity.

Thomas Kub (Thomas Mann) is a high-school student from Pasadena who is
about to celebrate his 17th birthday. His friend Costa (Oliver Cooper)
plans to host the most epic party possible at Thomas' house when his
parents are away in effort to change their loser status. Costa spreads
the word throughout the school and on the Internet, but the party is
bigger than anyone could imagine. As Thomas tries to control the
situation there is also romance in the air; he must choose between his
long-time friend, Kirby (Kirby Bliss Blanton), and the most popular
girl in school, Alexis (Alexis Knapp).

Because of the success of The Blair Witch Project and Paranormal
Activity, the found-footage genre has become popular, with this already
being the third movie in that style in 2012 alone (after The Devil
Inside and Chronicle). It's a cheap alternative, so now studios are
trying to extend it into other genres, and an R-rated teen comedy seems
as good as any.

But Project X is blighted by montages, using music, multiple cameras
and cuts. The explanation for the filmmaking style is that it's meant
to be a birthday video for Thomas, but it begs the questions of why
film something so self-incriminating and also how did the characters
get all this footage? Dax (Dax Flame) serves to be no more than the
cameraman, not having a personality whatsoever, and he has a very
voyeuristic filming style.

The movie pushes its premise to its extreme. It features 12-year-old
security guards with Tasers, people jumping the room with skateboards,
a crotch-punching midget and an angry drug dealer with a flamethrower.
Considering the idea of using found footage is usually meant to bring a
sense of realism, that was thrown out the window early.

As a comedy, Project X is not funny enough. The dialogue lacks wit and
most scenes rely on more crude and physical humour, such as dogs
humping things, because that is always funny. It does have its moments,
but the best bits tended to be in the trailer.

As for the characters, Costa is big dick and one of the most annoying
characters imaginable. Think Jay from The Inbetweeners without the
redeeming features. He brags all the time, uses his friends and looks
only for sex. He throws the party for his own selfish reasons. Of
course the character was likely written this way to some extent, so
Cooper performed decently, but deliberately making him annoying worked
a bit too well. Costa was the type of person I'd personally want to
punchÂ—and then again when he gets back up.

The acting throughout is pretty good from the young cast. Thomas is a
decent kid pressured into having this party who tries to keep order
when chaos descends around him. It is sad then when he changes in a
negative way. Jonathan Daniel Brown is basically a young Jonah Hill,
and Blanton reminded me of Dianna Agron from Glee, a nice person and
easily desirable. So why would Thomas' eye wonder to Alexis? There is a
mean spirit behind this movie. Why should we support these people
turning a suburban home into a rave and ruining the lives of the people
around them ? None of the characters face real punishment. Instead,
they celebrates their excess at the expense of others.

The R-rated high-school comedy always has an audience and I am sure
Project X will develop a fan base, but it will surely attract as many
dissenters as it will fans.

Rating: 4.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, this in the strangest way one of the best films I have seen.
There isn't really any story line apart from 3 guys throw a party and
basically, it goes really well, then bad then worse.

But the film itself. It's such a different film and I think that's why
it appeals, it isn't your standard party gone wrong film. The way its
filmed from loads of different cameras and the humor in it is very
funny.

I found myself cringing when stuff was going wrong as you feel as if
you're at the party! This is why I think it will appeal to the younger
generation rather than the older. 

Afterwards it gives you a real buzz. Would recommend this film to
anyone!
<|_=00=_|>
It is Thomas' 17th birthday. His parents are going away for the
weekend, admonishing him not to touch Dad's car, make sure Dad's office
is locked, etc. etc. etc. All the time, Thomas' "hilarious" friend
Costa (performed extremely well by Oliver Cooper) is pushing pushing
pushing for Thomas to host an insane party to boost their credibility,
his other "hilarious" friend (the obligatory fat one) is hanging
around, and the entire proceedings are being filmed on an enormous
hi-def video camera by a fourth kid who no-one notices. And, of course,
hundreds of people turn up leading to the house being trashed (burnt,
car in the swimming pool, riot police, trees in the street on fire,
press helicopters etc.) Perhaps this is funny if you are a teenager.
Personally, I found the Costa character (effectively Jonah Hill's
character in Superbad only immensely more offensive, and the driving
force in the events which destroy his friend's house) the most
repellent character I have ever seen on screen outside monsters like
Uday Hussein. It isn't so much that things get out of hand (although
they do), it is more that Costa is pushing pushing pushing all the time
with a total lack of respect for other people's hard-earned belongings
or for their desperately needed peace and quiet.

At the end, after everything has gone horribly (and predictably) wrong,
even Thomas' Dad, while watching his car being hauled from the pool and
explaining that the cost of the damage will consume Thomas' college
fund, shows that he is impressed by the turnout to the party and, back
at school, Thomas' star is in the ascendant.

The message underlying this film is that it really doesn't matter what
damage you cause, or how badly you screw up your own, and others'
lives, as long as you come out of it cool and, as a parent who has had
occasion to be dismayed at the lack of respect shown to my home by
guests of my teenage offspring, I think it is a disgraceful message to
purvey.

I thought that this was a deeply unpleasant film with a truly horrible
central character (portrayed as someone to be admired), selling a
perverse life lesson under the guise of comedy, which it wasn't. And
the hand held subjective camera footage is getting terribly old now.

It is interesting to note from IMDb's user votes that this film has
scored highly with the youngsters who would be the target for such
parties, and badly with the older generations whose homes and lives and
years of work would be what ends up trashed without remorse. I also
read many comments along the lines of "Wow! I wish I could go to a
party like that right now!" And I despair somewhat.

This film has absolutely nothing in it, apart from some singularly
unerotic breasts, to justify watching it. I hope those responsible for
putting it on the screen never work in films again.
<|_=00=_|>
I swear I'm never going to get bored of the found footage genre. Maybe
I'm just simple, but it has the ability to breathe life into tired
genres. Or maybe I just really allow myself to get carried away with it
all. Project X is that simple story of the outcast kids throwing a
party to become popular. It soon spirals out of hand, but what Project
X does right, is that it makes sure to really push it ridiculously far
without betraying its set-up. None of this would work if we didn't have
some lovable protagonists to root for. We have our hero Tom, the
friendly and most normal guy. JB is the slightly rotund geek that tries
to act sophisticated, and finally we have Costa. A big douchey dick.
This could go horribly wrong, but his pranks are often harmless and
Cooper plays it in a way where you can see how desperate he is for
attention. It makes him very sympathetic, even when you can't believe
how outrageous he is being. The film builds up the party slowly, which
is perfect. It starts off with a few drinks. The dog is then attached
to helium balloons, and once the ecstasy comes into play all bets are
off. The film is also littered with those bizarre curiosities that
often make great comedy, which thankfully it doesn't overuse. Two of my
favourites were the 11 year old security guards. I would have liked to
have seen more of the party halfway through, as it turns into a huge
montage of hilarious moments. Overall, this is a riotous teen fantasy,
where people act like cocks, but you somehow hope they succeed in one
way or another. In such a politically correct world, I'm kind of glad
it didn't pussy out.
<|_=00=_|>
Project X is a film that, on paper, does not appeal to me at all. I
predicted it to be a low budget film with some unmemorable gags and a
poor plot. I was wrong. It was a surprisingly good film. The plot did,
as anticipated, contain several holes and you couldn't help thinking
"surely that wouldn't have happened" but after all it was based on a
true story.

The film is based on some unpopular high school students, (Thomas,
Costa and JB) who throw a party when one of their parents goes away for
the weekend and it quickly escalates out of control. The film is
seemingly shot by their friend Dex on a portable camera and some other
videos in a documentary style sequence. There is a good balance of
dialogue, montages of general party mayhem and Thomas completely
stressing out and the films great for watching with a few of the lads.

The three of us who watched it were laughing consistently throughout
the film and many of the characters were very relatable. Overall
(despite being extremely far-fetched) the film was relatable, although
I was hoping for a bit more development on the morning after the party.

Don't watch this film if you're looking for artistic credit, watch it
to be entertained. This wouldn't have been a film I would have picked
out myself but after watching it I would recommend it, although not one
to watch with the family.
<|_=00=_|>
As a preface to this review, before anyone's knee-jerk reaction is to
dismiss my opinions as those of a prude: I'm not at all opposed to
"hard-R" comedies. In fact, I love many of them. But something about
this one rubbed me the wrong way - indeed, to even refer to it as a
"movie" seems wrong: there were scenes chronicling the party that
basically devolved into mini-music-videos focusing on naked girls. And
not even in tantalizing ways -- rather, these scenes felt creepy
(especially since a lot of the girls featured are supposed to be high
schoolers) -- for example, the director relies upon paparazzi-style
upskirt shots. And because the movie is shot a la Blair
Witch/Cloverfield etc. with its "found footage" style, it only makes
these shots seem all the dirtier and more voyeuristic.

Moving on past that stuff... other flaws: The fact that the main
characters were so clichÃ©d and stereotypical of the genre didn't help,
either -- the Jonah Hill-type character from NYC was sporadically
amusing but overall just seemed to be trying too hard: the mandatory
overzealous good friend who's obsessed with girls and thinks he has
game but doesn't. So, nothing original or distinct enough to make him
different than any other sex comedy character. He made me laugh a
couple times, but that's faint praise.

While the first half of the movie is sort of dumb fun, the second just
gets derailed by increasingly silly, unrealistic, borderline disturbing
stuff - e.g. a huge sequence with a dude wielding a flamethrower at the
end was not just stupid but kind of terrifying, like it belonged in a
completely different film.

I also didn't like the 'moral' of the story or whatever you want to
call its attempts to reconcile its events. Unfortunately I can't
discuss it without spoiling the film, but suffice to say the
"feel-good" moral closure of Project X felt like an attempt at Risky
Business without any of the actual morality behind it. Not to mention
the main character wasn't half as likable or realistic as the Tom
Cruise character, despite ostensibly looking more like an actual high
schooler than Cruise did - alas, that's why good writing is key. The
only word I can use to describe the film is...sleazy, but not in a good
way.

Think back on what made films like Superbad so much better than much of
their genre: it was the characters. They said and did a lot of crude,
dumb stuff, but they were rendered as realistic and likable kids and we
could relate to them. When they were put in compromising situations -
like an out of control party - it was funny because, as corny as this
sounds, we cared. They weren't throwaway caricatures of teenagers, or
one-dimensional mean-spirited idiots.

In Project X, whose various elements and characters are basically
ripped off of superior teen films, you don't particularly care about
any of these kids - nor can you relate to them. Is the film enjoyable?
People in the theater laughed - I imagine it'll appeal to its primary
demographic, which is the teen/college crowd - but I think years from
now those viewers will look back on movies like The Hangover and
Superbad and realize why those were better.

(P.S. Don't be fooled by misleading marketing -- while this film was
indeed produced by Todd Phillips, he did not direct it. The studio is
capitalizing on his involvement - and can you blame them for it when
the Hangover films have made like a billion dollars worldwide? - but
apart from a producer credit, he didn't have anything to do with this
flick.)
