
CARNAGE Â– CATCH IT ( A ) Carnage is one of a kind movie about the
meeting held between two set of parents regarding their sons fight in
the Brooklyn Park. What starts as a meeting between the parents to
determine what led to the fight, turns into the most chaotic day of
their lives. Carnage is truly splendid, its four characters in one
costume in one apartment. The whole movie is like a theater play where
it seems that all is said and done in one shot. Roman Polanski got his
hands on some of the most talented actors like Jodie Foster, Kate
Winslet, Christoph Walts and John C.Reilly. All the actors have done a
tremendous job in showcasing Sensible, Polite, Patient, Direct, Tense,
Irritated, Defensive, Outraged, Drunk, Insanity, Chaos, Mayhem,
Devastation, Violent, Persuasive, Shocking, Appalling, Juvenile,
Massacre and Grotesque emotions. I must say that the ending and the
whole hamster story in the movie was hilariously excellent. Overall,
Carnage is an excellent dark comedy which requires multiple viewing to
understand the characteristics and greatness in the performances of the
actors.
<|_=00=_|>
When movie characters have many opportunities to leave but stay in a
place, we quickly understand -and not without excitement- that the
movie will have only one setting. 

On that aspect, "Carnage" tries to resemble "Who's Afraid of Virginia
Woolf?" through a plot consisting in a conflict between two couples. I
say 'try' because it's also a rare example of a marvelous potential
totally wasted, coming so close to be a comedic gem of originality. I
couldn't believe Roman Polanski didn't go farther with the concept he
had on his hands. How he let the film end in such an abrupt and, let's
face it, anticlimactic way, is a total mystery.

"Carnage" starts with a civilized discussion between two couple of
parents, their kids had a fight, the little Cowan broke little
Longstreet's two teeth. The Cowans (Nancy and Alan) are played by Kate
Winslet and Christoph Waltz, and the Longstreets (Michael and Penelope)
by John C. Reilly and Jodie Foster. To determine which actor out-shined
the other is a futile exercise: they were all great, and the script
knows how to give to each one a moment to shine. The discussion is full
of social hypocrisy, the Cowans don't deny their son's responsibility
but the insistence of Penelope on little Cowan's guilt foreshadows a
tension between the couple and the pivotal moment happens in the most
unlikely way, through a big outburst of vomit. As soon as Nancy pukes,
the movie takes us to one exhilarating ride into human relationships.

The underlined theory behind "Carnage" is that we all have two facets
when it comes to our adult behavior, the image we'd like to reflect to
society and whatever cements our inner personality. Interestingly,
"Carnage" shows the gap between these parts of ourselves we prefer to
keep intimate and the image we display as a couple, and that's the key
of the film's narrative. In the beginning, it's about two couples, and
then it desegregates into four protagonists, each one guided by his or
her own issues. The performances are crucial because the point is to
allow each viewer to identify with one character while the actions of
the others remain justifiable. Indeed, no one is right or wrong, but
each one is blinded by a subjectivity that underlines any attempt of a
rational judgment. And the funniest thing is that they all try to be
objective when it's totally impossible.

Take Penelope for instance, she is an idealist humanitarian that
extrapolates the problem of her child to the eternal conflict between
the weak and the strong, she embodies the feminist aspect that
translates almost everything in terms of conflict, it's all about
dominant this and oppressed that. She proudly reminds everyone that she
defended the Darfour cause, neglecting that the core of most conflicts
in the world is profit and greed, regardless of genders and colors of
skins. Ironically, her idealism doesn't prevent her from superficiality
when she makes a fuss about a catalog messed up by Nancy's vomit. On
the other hand, Michael assumes his superficiality and enjoys life with
more detachment. He takes that his boy was in a band with a sort of
childish pride that betrays a naive and somewhat good nature, but
clearly opposed to his wife's philosophy of life.

The Cowans are more sophisticated and dysfunctional enough to justify a
failure in their son's education, but something seems to point the
fault on Alan as the eternal workaholic who can't get rid of his phone.
The second pivot of the film occurs through the bonding process by
gender, when the two men try to not overreact and over-analyze the
children's problem, and the two women make it personal. And when the
plot was getting more and more exciting, then Nancy took Alan's cell
phone and threw it in the water, making the two men struggle to repair
it, under the wives' mockeries. Then I started to feel manipulated: as
a guy, I know that we, men, have many flaws but not being obsessed by
objects; otherwise, we would have purses too. I thought this was a
risible attempt to ridicule the guys when the two women were obviously
bonding in a most grotesque way.

This highlighted what was for me the problem of the film, the pacing,
it was fast, and it seemed to be like in a hurry, without a pause, or
some time given to let us catch our breath. Shot in real time, it
seemed like the director and the writer were in a hurry to conclude the
thing, without giving much answers on the few interesting questions it
raised. The mothers had to drink to get drunk fast and behave
abnormally very soon. I expected a crescendo evolution that would lead
to some audacity, maybe a fight, or a realization. But it felt like the
whole concept of the film, adapted from a play written by Yasmina Reza
was trapped in a sacred respect of the unity of time, space and plot,
with no plot whatsoever.

Amusingly, my wife told me that it was typical of a Yasmina Reza play,
and she immediately slept after half an hour, expecting that the movie
would lead nowhere. I continued the film and I thought that maybe, it
was cleverly preparing for a spectacular climax or some mind-blowing
statement about couples. Well, it just ended there and I couldn't help
but feel a bit cheated. Since the movie doesn't end having a point in
the literal meaning of the world, I guess its point was just to depict
how manners and politeness are social masks that can easily get removed
when the most sensitive issues are tackled, and while even the couple's
facade fails to hide the most intimate convictions.

I'm sure it could have taken more distance and explored more
interesting points, but since the writer and the director didn't feel
like developing the story and the characters, why should we?
<|_=00=_|>
By Maurice Jones 

Roman Polanski's 'Carnage' starring Jodie Foster, John C. Reilly, Kate
Winslet and Christoph Waltz main seem like an unbalanced superficial
casting to some for a low-key movie such as this, but what at first is
expectedly unfit and useless is later realized and understood.

From the opening of the film Roman Polanski uses the same intensity of
50's-60's suspense film openings such as 'Compulsion' to distract you
from what is happening behind the credits to then lead you to the
purpose of the film to the then the plot. The back drop of the credits
is filmed and placed in a way that looks especially 70's, which
entirely gives a delightfully and brilliantly vintage opening of a
treat, as something like this is unfortunately rarely seen in a dramedy
as this. A starting such as this lets you know that you're in for the
creative dramatically playful telling of Mr. Roman Polanski.

The first few lines of the movie give way to the two head strong
characters of the movie who battle it out later on, but before then the
movie centers on the societal dealing with a schoolyard attack on the
son of a seemingly liberal couple; Penelope and Michael (played by
Jodie Foster and John C. Reilly) by the son of a seemingly conservative
couple; Nancy and Allen (played by Kate Winslet and Christoph Waltz).
Penelope is an opinionated, passionate writer who leads the reasoning
of the incident. Michael is a friendly yet choosy salesman who tries to
make light of the whole situation. Nancy is a pseudo-conservative who
like Michael tries to keep the whole situation without argument and
Allen is a sly yet focused attorney who would rather be working then
deal with the incident as long as the whole thing is dealt with fairly.
The first half of the movie displays the tight-rope courtesy of the two
couples dealing with this unfortunate situation in Penelope and
Michael's New York apartment, as little by little the faults of each
parent comes out but is especially looked over for the sake of good re
pore, which makes for a realistic look out on the stubborn
idiosyncrasies of parents in general. As what one would consider to be
poorly written, boring, typical or an off-putting part of the film is
really a clever set up of what's to come as the first half
realistically exports the pointlessness and exhaustiveness of how this
situation is handled. As things seep towards the second half of the
film the characters become less and less censored and open to be their
real selves in the confinement of Penelope and Michael's apartment
which leads to the rewarding and interesting part of the film. Nancy
and Michael are the soft, mending parts of their relationships but turn
out to be more disturbed and Penelope and Allen are the leaders and
rightfully duke it out. As the conservative couple Nancy and Allen are
nothing without their accessories and as the liberal couple Penelope
and Michael just want to be heard and taken seriously.

What's great technically about 'Carnage' is Roman Polanski's eye and
directing as he is aware of the subtleties and exaggerations of film
and why they can go hand in hand. With that Kate Winslet is great at
acting guarded and then letting her guard down and Jodie Foster pushes
herself to points that seem brilliantly worrying (she should probably
get an Oscar nom). John C. Reilly naturally does great playing the
friendly, caring Michael who as much as he is that, he's as well
careless and Christoph Waltz plays his usual cocky self who has an
answer to everything, which is accurate as the fierce attorney he
portrays.

Also written by Roman Polanski 'Carnage' has a lot of insight biased or
not about men and women and society which makes it importantly
realistic and in part shows view of the accurate thoughts of Roman
Polanski. If you're into or not into films about four people dealing
with each other in one location, check out 'Carnage' and if not for
Roman Polanski, see it for the rare useful form of the actors involved.
I started out not sure whether I was going to like 'Carnage' or not but
towards the end I saw the big picture and in that my only regret is,
that when it ended I wanted more time with these four people.
<|_=00=_|>
Roman Polanski, along with other audacious directors such as Martin
Scorsese and Francis Ford Coppola, was part of the "new school" which
changed the face of commercial cinema during the '70s, leaving behind
the retrograde moralist and edifying schemes the industry had been
dragging from the '50s, when the famous Hays Code severely censored the
"indecency" in cinema. However, at the difference of Coppola and
Scorsese, Polanski seems to have improved with the age (leaving aside
the misstep he had with Oliver Twist), because even though some of his
classic films keep undeniably being very interesting (The Tenant, The
Fearless Vampire Killers), I think his modern films offer a wider
spectrum of artistic and narrative attributes. In other words, I think
Polanski is living his best creative period, as it has been proved by
the films The Ninth Gate, The Pianist and The Ghost Writer. That's the
reason why I was very interested in watching Carnage, his most recent
film; however, even though it ended up being an interesting experience,
I didn't find it very memorable, and it's definitely very far from
being among Polanski's best films.

Even if it hadn't been mentioned during the initial credits, the fact
that Carnage is based on a play would have been obvious. With the
exception of the prologue and the epilogue, the whole film is developed
in only one location, and it basically relies on the dialogs and the
performances. On some way, Carnage is a filmed play, and as a
consequence, it's difficult to appreciate Polanski's hand; but
anyway...even without his characteristic atmosphere and visual style,
the film is entertaining despite feeling a bit affected and
pretentious. In this kind of minimalistic stories, we frequently see
the structural simplicity compensated by over the top drama, because
instead of looking for a visual deployment, the focus is on the
evolution (or "de-evolution") of the characters, something which was
exactly the point of Carnage. The result in here is competent, even
though I occasionally found it superficial and not very credible. The
conflict between the two couples begins on a realistic way, but its
staggering is too quick and obviously designed to make a contrast
between their moral values. And when the ending came, I felt the fact
that too many things were left up in the air.

However, I can't deny that the performances from Carnage are
magnificent. Jodie Foster and John C. Reilly are absolutely perfect as
the liberal and progressive middle-aged couple, so "politically
correct" that they run the risk of becoming caricatures. Meanwhile,
Kate Winslet and Christoph Waltz are brilliant as a wealthy, but
accessible and casual couple.

Even though it didn't leave me completely satisfied, I can bring a
moderate recommendation to Carnage as a competent film with excellent
performances and an interesting story.
<|_=00=_|>
Working on a "sense of community," the two couples in Carnage engage in
slowly evolving urban warfare, precipitated by violence in the
playground between their two sons. This adaptation from the Broadway
play, God of Carnage, is a soberer (by a little) version of Edward
Albee's Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?

Penelope (Jody Foster) and Michael (John C. Reilly) host Nancy (Kate
Winslet) and Alan (Christof Waltz) in their Brooklyn apartment to iron
out difficulties coming from their sons' fight, which resulted in
Penelope and Michael's son's mangled mouth. What begins civilly
escalates to a raw verbal mÃªlÃ©e with all players laying bare their
prejudices and weaknesses while the issue of the repentance of Nancy
and Alan's child becomes a vehicle for class and culture clash. As in
director Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby, the action is almost
exclusively in the small, one bedroom apartment, resulting in an
uncomfortable crowding of bodies and egos. And it doesn't take long for
the individual differences to surface as one is conciliatory, another
confrontational, another detached, and another bewildered.

Nor does it take long (only an 80 minute production anyway) for
alliances to build (and not necessarily in the same couple) with the
refrain "Why are we still here?" becoming the battle cry. Yes, it
doesn't turn out well, nor would most confrontations except that the
civil veneer usually stays intact for most of us.

But when writers Yasmina Reza and Polanski allow the characters to
speak their minds, albeit helped by Scotch, the drama gets good and the
words become socially lethal. What I like best is the language, not
elevated but sassy, smart, and colloquial: "Should we wrap this up?"
Yes, it is a film to be wrapped, but there is no real end to the social
jousting that goes on in our minds if not our mouths, which are
sometimes beaten badly as careless children might do in their play.
<|_=00=_|>
I would like to start off my review with a little back story. I was off
from work on a beautiful Southern California day and just watched Woody
Allen's Manhattan Murder Mystery last night so this was a nice
complimentary movie.

The basic premise of the movie is the interactions of two sets of
parents who are getting together for the sole purpose of an altercation
between their children. Jodie Foster and John C. Reilly are the parents
of the injured child (Ethan). Kate Winslet and Christopher Waltz are
the parents of the boy that hit Ethan (Zachery). The movie starts and
ends in the confines of the Longstreet's apartment (Reilly & Foster).
What ensues is the breakdown of civility between the two parties. 

I really enjoyed the movie, especially as it was the right movie for my
mood, but also because the casting was great, dialogue was sharp and as
usual the directing was spot on. I went in expecting Reilly to be
miscast, but he not only held his own but had some real moments. Foster
is easy to hate and the one I think an award nomination is due. Winslet
had a great metamorphosis as too chic investment banker. Waltz was
maybe not fleshed out as much, but easily the most enjoyable. All
things considered it was a Thoroughly enjoyable movie. 

There is very little not to like but taken in the essence of an old
fashioned ensemble And that it's wrapped up nicely with a bow, not many
loose ends, it's a great 80 minute Escape from the HD life we live.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite it's name, which should imply a very violent movie, this one is
a wonderful little movie about social structures and the way its built
within us to the point of forcing us to behave in certain ways.

The concept for this movie is simplistic to the maximum level. Just 2
couples discussing terms for their kid's fight. What seems to be a nice
meeting to solve the problem soon became a carnage fight (of words
only, gladly).

The movie allow us to explore the aspects of each of the 4
personalities, that's it, that's the movie, and it's great, superb, no
music, no special effects, no induced drama, no additional details to
color the movie. Simple, powerful, nicely done.

From all the movies coming from Hollywood these days, this one is a
nice gift, top notch actors, great comedy, nicely put together, what
more could you ask.

So, go on, see the movie, what are you waiting for!
<|_=00=_|>
"Carnage," an ultra-black comedy, drips vitriol from every frame as
four adults trapped in a well appointed apartment/cage devolve into
nasty kids. In the end, "Carnage" has all the appeal of a
mean-spirited, seventy-six minute fight with a spouse or significant
other.

It's postulated language was invented to hide, not communicate, what
people think. "Carnage" is the proof.

"Carnage" is nothing without the players. In a high-wattage cast Foster
shines brightest. Playing an alcoholic, neurotic, wrapped-way-too-tight
writer of books no one wants to read about political situations no one
cares about, there's tension in every muscle, every clipped word.
Waltz, an unctuous Pharmaceutical Spin Doctor, stands out as well: self
satisfied smirk on face with barely concealed contempt in eyes.

Reilly is, well, the serviceable, limited range Reilly we've come to
expect. He plays the passive/aggressive, people pleasing Teddy
Bear/Mook well, but here, as a Hardware Store Owner, he simply hits
marks, delivers lines. As an Investment Banker, the usually terrific
Kate Winslet is only shrill in a phoned in performance. (Though she
should receive an Oscar nomination for 'Best Projectile Vomit By An
A-Lister'.)

The Players aside, "Carnage" wears additional holes in an old, old
carpet. With nothing new or fresh to add about the human condition,
marriage, relationships or parenting, there only remains a dreary
afternoon spent with four clueless idiots with nary a whit of self
knowledge. There's no caring about these adult-children, and less
interest in the drivel they spit like venom.

Unfortunately, too, the potency of Political allegory is untapped.
There's only allusion to the dichotomies between activist/lobbyist,
regular guy/elite, Wall Street/Main Street. Even the eye-to-eye Alpha
Male stare down between Reilly and Waltz is risible.

The film's central conflict centers on a violent episode between the
parent's children. The film opens with the incident and ends with the
two boys as friends. (Given their dysfunctional, near abusive
environments, it's surprising the kids didn't wield Mac 10s.) This is
the sole message in a truly disappointing film - a son does not have to
bear the sins of the Father (or Mother). Stop The Presses!!!

On a practical level, the plot devices used to keep the Waltz/Winslets
from spiriting away from the conflict on the elevator are beyond logic
and believability.

Toothless and a bore, "Carnage" is a star-powered flop that had this
reviewer checking the time every five minutes. And showering after.
<|_=00=_|>
In the face of such classics as Chinatown and Rosemary's Baby it would
be a hollow statement to label Carnage one of Roman Polanski's best
films; it's shockingly minimalistic compared to the rest of his
catalog, and almost anachronistic in its old fashioned filmmaking style
and stripped-down production. Many were probably disappointed by the
film purely because of Polanski's name; it might have been better
received if it was directed by a young newcomer. Case in point: 12
Angry Men and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf, directed by young
newcomers Sidney Lumet and Mike Nichols, respectively. Both are still
considered among the best each director achieved, but also as
experimental debuts that would lead to bigger and more ambitious
things. Obviously this is not the case with Carnage, which is a veteran
director returning to his roots, to a minimalism not seen in his work
since the 50's. And yet, it's so much better than any of the more
ambitious films he made in recent years - The Ghost Writer, Oliver
Twist, The Pianist and The Ninth Gate all having their merits, but none
a real classic or any kind of a surprise.

Not to say that Carnage is as good as 12 Angry Men or Who's Afraid of
Virginia Woolf, masterpieces of minimalism and cinematic landmarks.
Carnage isn't any real news, cinematically speaking, but it's a
wonderful exercise in acting and interaction, and if you're a fan of
minimalistic cinema like I am you're bound to find interest in it. I
never found it boring for a second - uncomfortable, yes, grating even,
but never dull, I was completely drawn in by the wonderful performances
of the leads - Jodie Foster, Kate Winslet, Christoph Waltz and John C.
Reilly - who manage to covey four complex, fascinating, repulsive and
very realistic characters, and by the ever-shifting relationships and
alliances between them. While it's clearly a filmed play - and Polanski
let the original text shine - he makes excellent use of the
possibilities the film format allows, from the bombastic and
melodramatic to the quiet and subtle, neither of which is possible on
stage, at least not in the same way.

Carnage isn't necessarily a masterpiece but it's a wonderful
intellectual exercise and one of my favorite films of 2011. For fans of
Roman Polanski or for anyone who loved minimalistic films with compact
casts, from Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf to Tape and Cube, it's
highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
"Carnage" is about the carnage that is left over as two couples get
together to discuss their sons' recent altercation. It's a play. Not
just based on a play, but I'm pretty sure it is the play,
word-for-word, scene-for-scene. But make that just one scene. One room,
one afternoon, four characters. What makes it even more unique, is that
it's a comedy. I don't think I've ever seen a comedy this simplistic in
its setting.

Jodie Foster plays Penelope, she's the passive-aggressive wife and
mother; her husband is played John C. Reilly and he just wants to make
nice; their son was the victim. Kate Winslet's Nancy also just wants to
make nice; her husband is played by Christoph Waltz and he's the
aggressive-aggressive one; their son was the abuser.

I know what you're thinking. Is it really that easy to declare one 11
year-old boy the victim and the other the abuser? Aren't they both
somewhat to blame for whatever occurred? Well, you try telling that to
Foster's Penelope. After the 1 hour and 20 minute straight verbal
battle, I am staying clear.

"Carnage" is funny because we know what each character is really
thinking under their sincere, or false-sincere, passive cover.
Eventually, once a bottle of scotch gets consumed, they admit to their
feelings, and surprisingly, it still remains funny. That is where the
brilliance of the writing comes in. You could apply the old adage,
"it's funny because it's true." But there is something to these movies
about the real human and family relations accurately displayed beneath
a comedy banner.

Being a comedy, "Carnage" fared well enough getting Golden Globe
nominations, but I am a little miffed at the lack of screenplay
nominations. Then again, that's what happens when it is written and
directed by Roman Polanski. I don't blame Hollywood for not always
wanting to award him. If you don't want to reward him either, then find
the play version of "Carnage". I'm sure it's just as good.
