
"We have a Turkey situation"

"How should we address it?"

"With cranberry sauce." (HA, HA, HA,HA)

This was just a fun, silly movie -- perfect for a family outing. It has
no pretensions to be anything more than just a goofy, romp through
"history". No, it doesn't contain any riotously funny scenes. No, it
doesn't contain any hidden agenda. No it doesn't contain a subtext of
humor aimed at the parents/adults in the audience. And no, it is not a
thinly veiled attempt by Hollywood to promote a "Vegan" agenda.
(Seriously?!?)

It's not great art. It doesn't even really try to manipulate the heart
strings. 

It reminded me a lot of "Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure" and even
referenced it at one point.

It's just exactly that kind of a (again) fun, silly little movie.

Nothing more, nothing less.

Just take the kids and enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand the hate for this movie: is was just plain fun. I
don't know how this movie is offensive, probably because I'm not
American, so I can't comment on that. First off all: don't look for a
message in this movie. I keep reading, people saying there is a
message. There is NO MESSAGE here. It's just fun. It's so bad it's
good. The plot didn't make any sense and that's what was funny about
it.

I'm very relieved to finally see an animated movie made just for fun
and without feeling the need to add an unnecessary message or plot or
emotional attachment. There was only one instance where they tried to
get you emotionally involved, it didn't work but it didn't disturb me
either.

Very refreshing and highly recommended during the holiday season!
<|_=00=_|>
Sorry this is a film that doesn't deserve the bad reviews it got
because if you cant find this film funny you are miserable as hell with
no sense of humor because this is a extremely funny with slap stick
humor, compared to most animated film this is so worth watching.

The writing in this comedic tale is spot on with the humor -- while the
voice performances and animation are brilliantly done. The only
downside to the movie, is the lack of inclusion of the song's that
normal come in to animated film'sbut seriously this was a
laugh-out-loud movie that really only slows down during an attempt to
throw in some romance. There is some amazing and hilarious animation
done between Woody's voice acting for the character Jake

and the leader of the pack Chief Broadbeak voiced by Keith David in the
old world when they try to out do each other in a macho contest, with
some hilarious outrageous laugh out loud moments.

Owen Wilson voices of Reggie, the only sain turkey among a dumb pack of
turkeys was brilliant to show a unsung hero of the bird world, i like
that they gave his character that romance element as well which was
funny with Jenny voiced by Amy Poehler, who his character just acts
like a love sick puppy but it just brilliant done. Through this whole
film you just find yourself laugh because the level of the slap stick
humor you just cant help but laugh your head off, i really don't know
why some people can find this film funny, because I've never laugh so
hard in my life at an animated film, special even more so with the
angry birds reference, it just a classic animated film that all the
family will love, you just cant go wrong with this animated film
chicken run was good, just turkeys do it better.
<|_=00=_|>
Well it has been quite a while since I watched a movie that the whole
family can watch, and enjoy. Most of the animated films of the last
couple of years have been so totally dumbed down that they just don't
have enough of that subtle stuff that keeps the adults amused as well.
So this is a nice change, really. Woody Harrelson﻿ and Owen Wilson﻿ do
a great job pulling off a Turkey buddy movie with Time travel. I don't
know how terribly racist some people might take this movie, and I
really don't care all that much. There were no Turkeys at the first
Thanksgiving, but that doesn't matter either. The point of the movie is
finding a place that you belong, and to never give up trying. Nothing
really much else. There are some good solid chuckles in here, and the
animation is really good. This one will be on repeat in your home for a
while if you have the young'nses running around. So yeah I Enjoyed this
one more than I had expected, and am glad I accidentally hit play. ;) I
recommend this to anyone who wants a movie that they can watch with the
whole family. I'd call for pizza first though cause your gonna want
some.
<|_=00=_|>
1st watched 11/23/2013  8 out of 10(Dir-Jimmy Hayward): Hilarious &
inventive animated movie about two turkeys who go back in time to try
to change the fate of future turkey's ending up on the dinner table
during this festive time of year. The writing in this comedic tale is
spot on -- while the voice performances and animation are very well
done. The only downside to the movie, in my opinion, is the lack of
inclusion of the song Free Birdbut seriously this was a laugh-out-loud
movie that really only slows down during an attempt to throw in some
romance. Owen Wilson is the voice of the one-of-the-kind turkey in a
stupid current flock as the only one who knows they are getting
fattened up to enter their death. The president pardons him from being
the main course on Thanksgiving and he is living the good life until he
runs into a wild turkey searching out a time machine to turn things
around for his kind. Woody Harrelson is the voice of the wild one and
the time machine, "Steve", leads them back to before the first
Thanksgiving. There is some amazing and hilarious animation done
between Woody's character and the leader of the pack in the old world
when they try to outdo each other in a macho contest. I was wildly
surprised with this movie with it's lame idea but the humor and pacing
was great --- the turkey love part was a little much  but other than
that this animated movie was excellent. If you are looking for a
satisfying and fun time at the movies where you and the kids can enjoy
it at the same time see this movie!!
<|_=00=_|>
My kids and I loved this movie, so I was surprised to see the low
rating on IMDb. The negative comments seem to center on three things:

(1) "Cultural insensitivity," chiefly for portraying 17th century
turkeys like Indians. I don't get this one. They are put in opposition
to pilgrims, who are trying to eat them, and the Indian association
seems natural. (2) A "vegetarian" message. I am relatively sensitive to
such message (e.g., I thought it was rather heavy-handed in "Jurassic
Park"), so I can say that there simply isn't one here. It's about
turkeys trying not to get eaten, not that people should never eat meat.
(3) "disregard for time-travel paradoxes" (quoting from Wikipedia
here). It's a movie about talking turkeys, and this guy is bothered by
inconsistencies in time travel? If this bothers you, it's time to take
off the bow tie and unfasten the suspenders, you need to loosen up.

Okay, the plot is not great, and there really isn't a message (at least
not much of one). The joy of this movie and others of its ilk is in the
presentation. There are a lot of funny lines, and the animation is
amazing. I love seeing how cartoonists can elicit the most focused
emotions simply by depicting a turkey's face.

If you are looking for a deep movie, this one is probably not for you.
If you are looking for a great way to spend 90 minutes, you will enjoy
this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Bear in mind, I am writing this from the perspective of a parent who
just shelled out for kids tickets, my ticket, concession stand, and it
wasn't cheap, and then to have this movie be SO awful and SO boring
(yes, my kids called it boring!), well, I am very disappointed.

All of the funny-seeming parts were in the trailer, and when you see
them in the context of the movie they aren't very funny either. I was
in a packed theater and there was hardly any laughing going on at all -
that is a very bad thing. Laughter is contagious, but not in this film!

The voice acting was average at best, although Owen Wilson was good,
but one turkey cannot carry an entire movie, especially when the plot
was so lame.

The animation itself was OK, but without a decent story and
characterizations, a movie is going to fail, and this one did big time!
We didn't expect factually accurate obviously, you'd have to be crazy
to think it was, but we were hoping the humans wouldn't be portrayed as
either total morons OR really evil and vicious. Pixar doesn't show
humans that way in Toy Story, neither did Turbo or Despicable Me 2.

This movie is a definitely wait for it in Redbox etc, or even wait for
it to come on TV. If you have 2 kids or more, you're going to be paying
out a lot of cash for a trip to the movies to see this and you will be
horribly disappointed.

Highlight of the movie was the trailers BEFORE the movie - which showed
us a couple of upcoming animated movies that might actually be good.

The one thing I will say for the movie is they had great marketing -
they suckered us in on election day in VA when we had nothing better to
do, but let this review be your warning, go see SOMETHING ELSE!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie got some tremendously bad user reviews but my little girls
were desperate to see it . Free Birds tells the story who of a turkey
who tries to change history by going back in time to make turkeys a
non-choice at Thanksgiving. Being Australian I had no interest in
Thanksgiving and being an adult I had no interest in turkeys. I had
resigned myself to 90 minutes of playing with my phone (hidden from
view under a blanket). However, I found this movie fun and interesting.
It disregards history with wild abandon and this makes it even more
funny. Woody Harrelson and Owen Wilson are great as the two key
characters. There are real laugh out loud moments and my two girls
loved the president's daughter the most saying her lines over and over
in the car. Look it won't be the greatest movie you ever see and it
certainly isn't at the standard of Frozen (but little boys make like it
more). However, it is a fun way to spend the holidays and the four of
us had a great afternoon.
<|_=00=_|>
I was not expecting great things from this movie but I was pleasantly
surprised. It was actually quite hilarious, lame but laugh out loud
funny. The jokes were on point the whole way through and it was adult
funny not just kid funny.

Honestly if you can't relax and just enjoy a movie then give this one a
miss and if you regularly use words like cinematography in your reviews
then get over yourself nobody wants to hear your review as you
shouldn't have watched this movie to begin with. Stop trying to drag
ratings down for a harmless animated children's film. Back to the
movie...

Free Birds has all the same concepts as your typical feel-good movie
but who's ever seen a movie about a Thanksgiving turkey. It's certainly
a new one for me. And shout out to the baby turkeys, they were
adorable. The whole way through I was rooting for the turkeys to
succeed even though they're completely delicious. But I guess you'll
just have to watch to see what happens.
<|_=00=_|>
Free Birds (2013) is a hilarious thanksgiving treat. Although it has
received unfavorable reviews, I would say it's certainly not that bad.
Some of the elements in the movie may be culturally offensive to some
but if we watch this with a light heart, it's actually a very funny
movie with plenty of gags!

As been mentioned at the beginning of the movie, Free Birds (2013) is a
work of fiction. It is loosely based on historical events but it is no
way meant to be historically correct or accurate. They claimed that the
talking turkeys are real though. Still, the main characters (none other
than the turkeys) and supporting characters (the time machine named
S.T.E.V.E and the human such as the pizza guy, the president and his
daughter) are quite likable, comical and adorable to a certain extent!

In short, this movie has the ability to make us laugh and laughter is
good for our health. I guess ultimately, the creators only wanted to
convey that pizza is more than delicious and filling; it can bring
people (and animals) together! Talk about the importance of food!

Probably really, Free Birds (2013) is the greatest turkey movie of all
time!
