
The Dark Tower by Stephen King is an expansive story that spans 7
books, telling Roland the Gunslinger's journey to the Tower; involving
different genres, many characters, many worlds - a big lore. 

At a certain point whether you have read the series or not is probably
irrelevant. If you haven't read the books, I would imagine the movie
just will feel flat and lifeless, with only a few scenes from
McConaughey standing out. There's very little plot and character
development, which comes across as a lump of clich√©s. If you have read
the books, you'll likely find the movie a spectacular failure,
wondering how the writers managed to dumb down such promising material
to a 95 minute generic action movie, and making an actor like Idris
Elba overact in a character that should have endless potential. The
final result is so hollow and narrow, if you have watched the trailer,
you may just count yourself as having seen the whole thing. 

If you are intrigued by the story, skip this movie, and give the first
book of the series a go.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I went to see this movie last night. This is probably the
only review I've done in the past 30 years and that's because I believe
this was "UNFAIRLY REVIEWED BY CRITICS", so I'm hoping you'll give this
movie a shot after reading what I have to say. 

I almost didn't go because the movie review in USA Today newspaper only
gave it one star. Some of the user reviews here didn't seem very
enthusiastic about the movie either. I'm 67, retired, and a King fan
(I've red The Dark Tower books). My wife is 70, retired and not a King
fan (she hasn't read any of the Dark Tower books). Just to provide some
additional perspective some of the movies we've seen so far this year
and how we rated (in chronological order) The Founder 5, A Dog's
Purpose 5, John Wick Chapter 2 5, Logan 6, Kong; Skull Island 7, Beauty
and the Beast 7, Power Rangers 5, The Fate of the Furious 8, Guardians
of the Galaxy 2nd Vol 8, Pirates of the Caribbean 4, Wonder Woman 9,
The Mummy 5, Spider Man 6, War for the Planet of the Apes 8, and The
Dark Tower 8.

I was worried standing in line to see the movie so when the previous
show got out I started asking people (must have been close to 20) if
the liked the show. (Would have asked more except my wife was feeling a
little embarrassed.) Everyone said a hearty "Yes" except for one couple
who shook their heads and said, "It wasn't like the books" and gave it
a thumbs down. After that I was encouraged and looked forward to seeing
the movie. I figured most of the critics were slamming it because it
didn't follow the books closely. Frankly, from what I've seen, King
books have always had a tough time being translated to the big screen. 

Although this movie didn't follow the books "right on" the main gist of
the plot and characters were there so I wasn't disappointed. Contrary
to what some other critical and user reviews have said, the plot was
cohesive, well thought out, and had similarities to the book. The
acting was very well done all around, the action was excellent and was
not jittery or blurry. It's easy to connect to the characters and the
emotional points of the plot.

I started with a list of movies we've seen and how we rated so you can
compare how similar, or not, your ratings were to put in perspective
how likely you'd be to enjoy this movie. I wonder if critics and some
users go to movies for reasons different from ours. We just want to see
fun, entertaining, well acted movies that have been filmed and directed
by good professionals. The ONLY ding we could give this movie was that
it wasn't done in a manner similar to "Lord of the Rings" where it's
carried out over 3 films with greater detail and depth. That might have
been better, but maybe not. Regardless, I wish critics would at least
rate movies like this with 2 stars as long as they're fun, well done
and entertaining. There's no way this was a one-star film.

Unless you really need the movie to follow all the outline and plot of
the books, I'm extremely confident you'll enjoy this movie. It's well
worth going to the show to see. You'll like it!
<|_=00=_|>
Being a tower junkie for over a decade, I honestly don't have much
expectation on this movie adaption. Much of The Dark Tower series'
charm comes from Stephen King's narration, which doesn't easily convert
into the visual language of movies. Since the bar was set extremely
low, I thought there's no way I could be disappointed in the cinema.

But dude, this Nikolaj Arcel guy has one heck of a way to prove me
wrong.

Judging by what's revealed in trailers, I thought this one should cover
The Gungslinger and *part of* Drawing of the Three, starting a whole
franchise, with more installments to follow. But no. The director took
pieces from all seven Tower books, glued them onto a self-made
storyline (a lame one), and called it a day. Yes, you're reading it
right. This is the whole thing, the entire package. What kind of
idiotic mind ever thinks of packing SEVEN novels into ONE SINGLE movie?

Within 1.5 hours you will see Roland Deschain fighting the army of the
Man in Black (vol IV), having his ass handed to him, embarking on a
chase (vol I), picking up Jake Chambers from New York (vol I & II),
although the Jake in this movie is really Jake Chambers and Patrick
Danville rolled into one (vol VII). They fooled around in Mid-world for
a bit, then discovered Algul Siento (vol VI), where the Man in Black's
force are hording up breakers to destroy the Dark Tower. In order the
thwart the evil operation, they went to this village that looks
suspiciously like Calla Bryan Sturgis (vol V), activated a portal to
Keystone Earth, trying to infiltrate en route the can-toi headquarter,
a restaurant called Dixie Pig (vol VII). Then there comes a ton of pew
pew pew and bang bang bang. All baddies died, including the Man in
Black (vol WTF). They destroyed the tower-breaking machine, and lived
happily ever after (vol WTF). End of story.

No Oy. No Eddie Dean. No Susannah Holmes. Even the Crimson King is
axed, while references to him can be seen everywhere in the movie. This
version of Roland didn't even attempt to enter the Tower.

I've thought hard, for nice things to say about this movie, and came up
with only the following: 1. All sorts of creative reloading techniques.

2. Walter O'Dim is super duper kickass cool in the movie adaption, way
cooler than in the original novels. Matthew McConaughey did portray the
"Walking Dude" true to his name, always on the move, casually passing
through lives and worlds, leaving havoc in his wake.

Otherwise... it's a dozen bucks wasted. Should have donated it to the
charity.

BTW, IMDb should change its rating mechanism a bit, allowing us to give
a 0 rate.

Oh, there's one nice touch at the very beginning of the movie. Among
the names and logos of producers and investors, there's a screen
featuring "Tet Corporation", accompanied by a turtle and a rose,
kindling false hope in me.
<|_=00=_|>
This film reminds me of the situation surrounding the making of The
Lord of the Rings trilogy. The film was turned down by one studio after
another as none of the studios wanted to commit to making 3 films. One
of the studios actually agreed to make it, but only if the script was
condensed into a single film. Thankfully the people that had the rights
and were pitching the films understood that the idea of translating the
entire Lord of the Rings trilogy in a single film was a laughable
proposition and the end result would have been a terrible film that
would ultimately do no justice to the source material. They were
willing to bring it down to 2 films instead of 3, but the studio wound
up turning them down. 

The final studio they approached was New Line and because all of the
other studios had turned them down, they pitched it to New Line as a 2
film series as opposed to a trilogy. Amazingly, New Line agreed to take
on the project but only if it was made as a trilogy. Clearly someone at
New Line smartly recognized that Lord of the Rings was an amazing
project and the only way to do it right was to make it a trilogy. And
anyone who has read the Lord of the Rings trilogy understands first
hand that there is just way too much material to be condensed into a
single film or even 2 films. And as we all know, the films wound up
being a HUGE success and made New Line billions. At last look the
Trilogy had made more than 6 billion world wide. 

Like Lord of the Rings, The Dark Tower series is just way too big to be
condensed into a single film. Any film studio that was legitimately
serious about doing the Dark Tower series justice would understand that
right out of the gate. The Lord of the Rings was 3 books and the
running time for the extended versions of the films was 682 minutes or
just over 11 hours long. .The Dark Tower series is 8 books and many of
them are BIG books. Anyone who thinks that amount of material can be
condensed into a single film is living in la la land. I knew going in
that this was going to be a cheap attempt at making money off of
Stephen Kings name and the popularity of The Dark Tower series and
that's exactly what it was. The Dark Tower series is one of my all time
favorite book series, as is Lord of the Rings, and this film is
literally a bad joke compared to the source material. How they got
Matthew McConaughey to sign on to this film when he has had such an
amazing run the last 4-5 years is simply beyond my understanding. I
will never understand how such an amazing writer has had so many
terrible films made from his books. 

Bottom line - this was a terrible film, one that does no justice to the
source material at all. If your a fan of the Dark Tower books, do
yourself a HUGE favor and skip this film. Its like a bad joke of the
Dark Tower universe. Everyone involved with this film should be ashamed
of being a part of it. The only reason I saw it is because I have a
nephew than basically begged me to take him to see it and I have to
admit, part of me was curious to see just how bad it really was and in
that regard it didn't disappoint. It was just as bad as I expected it
to be. This is Hollywood garbage, nothing more and nothing less. Do
yourself a favor and put your money elsewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
You have Idris Elba, Matthew McConaughey 8 books of material, and you
put together a 95 minute movie? I absolutely hate that critics have to
hold their reviews on these movies so the public cannot be forewarned.
Its like restaurant critics not being able to tell you the food is dog
meat until after you place your order. Then there are those fans who
loved the books, so they delude themselves into thinking the movie is
good enough. Frankly the history of Stephen King material and film is a
mixed bag. The Shining is obviously superior, but when's the last time
you dug out Dreamcatcher? It just continues to shock me how inept some
of these productions are.
<|_=00=_|>
The Dark Tower is a 2017 American science fantasy western film directed
and co-written by Nikolaj Arcel. A continuation of Stephen King's novel
series of the same name, the film stars Idris Elba as Roland Deschain,
a gunslinger on a quest to protect the Dark Tower¬óa mythical structure
which supports all realities¬ówhile Matthew McConaughey plays his
nemesis, Walter Padick, the Man in Black, and Tom Taylor stars as Jake
Chambers, a New York boy who becomes Roland's apprentice.Its budget is
60 million dollars which means that the producers spent much money to
make this movie great.

Eleven-year-old Jake Chambers experiences visions involving a Man in
Black who seeks to destroy a Tower and bring ruin to the Universe, and
a Gunslinger who opposes him. Jake's mother, stepfather, and
psychiatrists dismiss these as dreams resulting from the trauma of his
father's death the previous year.

At his apartment home in New York City, a group of workers from an
alleged psychiatric facility offer to rehabilitate Jake; recognizing
them from his visions as monsters wearing human skin, he flees. Jake
tracks down an abandoned house from one of his visions, discovers a
high-tech portal, and travels to a post-apocalyptic world called Mid-
World.

In Mid-World, Jake encounters the last Gunslinger, Roland Deschain who
emerged in his visions. Roland is pursuing Walter Padick, the Man in
Black who had also appeared in Jake's dreams, across a desert, seeking
to kill him in revenge for the murder of his father, Steven, and all
remaining gunslingers. He explains that Walter, over the decades, has
been abducting psychic children, and is attempting to use their "shine"
to bring down the Dark Tower, a fabled structure located at the center
of the Universe; this will allow beings from the darkness outside to
invade and destroy reality.

Roland takes Jake to a village to have his visions interpreted by a
seer. Learning of Jake's escape and journey to Mid-World, Walter
investigates and discovers from his minion Sayre that Jake has "pure
Shine", i.e. enough psychic potential to destroy the Tower single-
handedly. He kills Jake's stepfather, then interrogates his mother
about his visions and kills her too. In Mid-World, the seer explains
that Roland can find Walter's base of operations in New York. Walter's
minions, the Taheen, attack the village, but Roland individually kills
each of them. Roland and Jake return to Earth. When Jake returns home
to check in on his mother, he finds her charred remains and breaks
down. Roland vows to kill Walter "for both of us" and comforts Jake by
teaching him the Gunslinger's Creed, which he hasn't uttered since his
own father's death, as well as the basics of gun fighting.

As Roland re-arms himself at a gun store, he is attacked by Walter, who
captures Jake. At his base, he straps Jake to a machine that will use
him to destroy the Tower. Jake uses his psychic powers to alert Roland
to his location, and Roland battles his way through Walter's henchmen.
Walter confronts Roland, wounding him. After Jake reminds him of the
Gunslinger's Creed, Roland recovers and kills Walter with a trick shot
after a brief fight. Roland destroys the machine, saving the Tower,
Jake, and the other children.

Afterwards, Roland says that he must return to his own world and offers
Jake a place by his side as his companion. Jake accepts the offer as he
has nowhere else to go, and the two depart for Mid-World.

Don't listen to the biased critics who never saw this great film,see it
yourself and make your own judgment!.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie had all the suspense of an excellent sci-fi flick. If you
have ever read, watched or listened to fiction stories, books or movies
and enjoyed them, then this is no different. The actors gave stellar
performances and the director and producers gave us a very entertaining
product. I really could care less about reviews. I have always ignored
them, since no one is capable of convincing me he or she knows what
entertainment means to me. After all, the operative word is
"entertainment." Go see the movie, you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved The Dark Tower, I think the movie was entertaining and I loved
the story. Idris Elba and Tom Taylor were awesome together and played
well together. I liked the way they went from New York to Africa and
back and forth. The look of the film, the cinematography was amazing. I
do not see why people would not like this movie. People are always
going to have a problem with book series and remakes because it seems
like nobody can ever get it perfect. I did not read the books and did
not know what this movie was about and I loved it. Matthew was great as
the villain and I think Claudia Kim is beautiful. If you haven't seen
The Dark Tower, just give it a chance. This film does not start out
slow either it gets right to the story. Go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely loved it. I've waited so many years to see Roland the
Gunslinger on the movie screen, and he didn't disappoint. 

This movie was marketed incorrectly; it is not The Dark Tower, it is
The Dark Tower Chapter 8 (an optional chapter). You can watch this
chapter of the story without reading the others as it stands alone
outside of the saga detailed in the books.

You should watch it even just for the fact that it is the only movie so
far set in the universe outside of ours that links all of Stephen
King's works together. My brother and father have never read any of the
books, and we just got back from the cinema - we all enjoyed it.

Good fun. I'm not surprised to see this film has suffered from harsh
criticism, mainly revolving around the fact it is not faithful to the
original story, but the creators of this film are very clear in their
intentions and deliberately presented a message to the existing readers
and fans within the trailers of what to expect. Anyone who read all of
the books in order will understand why this film is different, and how
it fits in to the saga.

I thoroughly enjoyed this slightly absurd and visually awesome Stephen
King horror/adventure movie, it was great.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a 7 or 8 out of 10 movie. I gave it 10 to even out the negative
ratings. It's one of the good movies released in this year, with
excellent acting by everyone, especially 3 lead characters. The movie
was thoroughly enjoyable and pacy. Only downside is that the action
towards the end was short. The reason for the negative review, as many
have pointed out here, is that the movie did not do proper justice to
the books. While, that's true, it doesn't make the movie bad. Quite
often we see that screen adaptations are not quite as good as the
books, e.g. a song of ice and fire, that doesn't make the screen
adaptation bad. To give 1-5 ratings to this movie is wrong,
biased,imbalanced and grossly unfair to the people behind this movie.
