
You are almost immediately plunged into the action, in a similar way to
the opening of 'Saving Private Ryan', with a Native American attack on
a group of fur trappers. DiCaprio even does that momentarily deaf thing
that Tom Hanks does. Lots of bows and arrows and gore and excellent
photography that is really immersive. Great opening scene.

There there's the scene where DiCaprio is mauled by a grizzly bear.
Again, really believable, exciting and up front and personal - you can
almost smell the bear's stinking breath. Brilliant. 

And then there's ... well ... not much really. Photography and scenery
are by and large excellent but you do get the feeling that better use
could have been made of them. Iñárritu often seems to chop scenes
around for no particular reason, although you do get the occasional
sense of the vast wilderness that comes over well on the big screen.

Dialogue is scarce. Most of it goes to Tom Hardy who tries to put on a
Texan accent but succeeds in sounding as if he has a sock in his mouth
(does he specialise in being inaudible? remember him as the mumbling
Bane in 'The Dark Knight Rises'?). 

Then there's the storyline. You know the ending, right? (Just look up
the definition of 'revenant'.) Leo is up against it and he suffers a
great deal. But you know he is going to survive. So when, to top
everything, he falls off a cliff on his horse you realise he's actually
become Mr Indestructible. And two and a half hours of crawling,
grimacing and wincing does not a very entertaining film make.

There are also several non-credible plot twists. Like when Tom Hardy
(a.k.a. The Mumbler) somehow cracks an impressive-looking safe and
makes off with the garrison money and just two guys go after him,
including the garrison commander. This nicely sets up the final
confrontation between Mr Indestructible and The Mumbler .... but
really? 

We also develop little or no emotional connection with the main
character. The silent dream scenes are a clichéd way of trying to do
this and they don't work in my opinion - they're just puzzling and
boring. Nor do we see much of the relationship between Leo and his son
to set up the emotional links between them - just Leo being harsh and
dishing out tough love a couple of times. 

The pacing is also poor. Once you've passed the opening scene and the
grizzly scene, feel free to go and refresh your popcorn - you won't
miss much. 

Overall, the film is self-consciously bleak and overdetermined and is
unevenly paced. A better director might possibly have made this a good
film but Iñárritu is clearly not David Lean.

If DiCaprio gets an Oscar for this it will be because the Academy think
they owe him one and possibly because of the hype. This is a film that
will be forgotten. If you want to see a good silent movie with snow,
ice, struggle for survival and even the odd grizzly bear thrown in,
watch Chaplin's 'The Gold Rush' - it's far more entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
A lot has been said and written about this film, mostly about its
troubled production - forget all that: it has no meaning whatsoever for
the experience this film provides. A word of advice though: if you go
in expecting a testosterone-fueled revenge thriller in the vein of
'Apocalypto', you'll likely end up disappointed. It's simply not that
kind of film - but that doesn't mean you won't enjoy it if you watch it
with the right expectations.

'The Revenant' opens with images from a dream; we see snippets of
memories showing a peaceful life - and soon the loss of that peace, and
the loss of life. The images change and we hear the soothing sound of
gurgling water as we follow the camera via a long tracking shot over a
flooded forest; it's an image that seems to imply peace, evoking
nature's beauty with an almost meditative quality - before the barrel
of a rifle appears in the frame.

Those first three minutes I just described (which are the only spoilers
you will get in this review) set the tone for the film perfectly. It's
a film that tells a story of harrowing circumstances through images
that are breathtakingly beautiful; a film about survival and death and
shocking acts of sudden violence - and yet a film that, despite all its
visceral intensity, also has a quiet, immersive quality to it that
feels almost hypnotic.

Many critics and reviewers have pointed out the stark contrast between
the film's poetic beauty and the ugliness of its violence - implying
the director wanted to use this contrast to make a certain point
regarding mankind's interference with nature. While that would seem
pretty obvious (and it probably is at least partly true), I left the
film feeling Iñarritu had shown a vaster, far too complete image of the
clash between man and nature to justify such a simplistic
interpretation of the events portrayed on screen. Whether intentionally
or not, Iñarritu shows the star of his film with a complexity and
honesty that we normally don't get to see in these kinds of stories.
And I'm not talking about Leonardo DiCaprio here (who gives a
no-holds-barred, crazy good performance and I'd love to see him win an
Oscar for this film) - the star of this film is not a person: it IS
nature, plain and simple.

The revenge plot - which felt almost like an afterthought or a ploy to
give the film a certain structure and a proper ending - is not really
the film's main theme or strongest aspect, and it certainly isn't the
reason that made this film so compelling to watch for me. Such stories
have been told often enough - and often better - than in 'The
Revenant'. No, what really made this film stand out for me is that I
have NEVER seen a Hollywood film (any film, really - apart from
documentaries) that showed nature in such an unflinchingly honest and
mesmerizing way as was the case here. And the way I perceive it,
Iñarritu sees his human protagonists as being very much a part of
nature as a whole - regardless of their destructive behaviour. 

It's that refreshingly wholistic approach (which some viewers might
perceive as nihilism on the director's part) that I found to be the
film's biggest accomplishment: it depicts the people in this story as
just another species trying to survive in that perilous frontier-world.
The emphasis is not really on the moral aspects of the brutal injustice
that the main character suffers or how the Native Americans are cruelly
exploited; we witness all that - but Iñarritu keeps a certain emotional
distance, as if he were shooting a documentary about predatory
wildlife. And just like the bear's attack, most of the violence in this
film comes as a reaction of defense. Be it self-defense, defending
one's offspring or defending territory and valuable resources. Even the
character that comes closest to an actual villain is driven by fear -
not hate, and his most obvious character defects were caused by a very
traumatizing experience. As in nature, there is a simple (if often
brutal) logic to why most characters, men or beasts, act the way they
do in 'The Revenant' (OK, maybe not the French - but I didn't say the
film was perfect, did I). And the bear attack was the most realistic
depiction of an animal attack I have ever seen on film.

All in all, this film felt less like a story of revenge and more like
an ode to the visceral beauty of nature and the relentless, savage
force that is life; it provides an immensely absorbing - and touching -
experience to those who have an affinity for the wilderness, but it's
also a visual masterpiece and a great piece of old-school filmmaking
for lovers of Cinema. It's not perfect (especially during the last
third of the film where I felt the pacing was a bit off), but it's a
film the likes of which we will only rarely get to see - if at all - in
the future. 'The Revenant' is visual poetry of the most primal kind,
and it should be seen on the biggest screen possible. 9 stars out of 10
from me.

Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/

Lesser-Known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/
<|_=00=_|>
The Revenant falls into the same category as Aronofsky's "Requiem for a
Dream" and Spielberg's "Schindler's List" for me, in the essence of
being a terrific movie but not something I think I can sit through a
second time. In all these movies there are brutal sequences that cause
emotional stress and disgust just watching because it is so REAL and
GRIPPING. To think that events in these movies actually happened or
that they could very well happen is too much for me to think about. Not
to say that I did not enjoy this film thoroughly. 

The Revenant is a technical masterpiece that left me wondering "How the
hell did they do that?" after many scenes and sequences. With beautiful
cinematography and adroit camera movement this film is a visual magnum
opus. It is apparent that the great minds that put forth this film are
none other than the same ones that brought us Birdman: Lubezki and
Inarritu. There are many long shots without cuts that are sprinkled
throughout the film that add a sense of sophistication to it with the
added bonus of predominantly location based shooting and natural
lighting for the film , that can even make a novice film watcher raise
an eyebrow at its complexity. 

The camera work is not the only noteworthy aspect of the film; The
actors did a superb job executing their rolls. Many are raving about
DiCaprio's performance but I was more of a fan of Hardy's brutal and
gritty character Fitzgerald. Granted, half the words that came out of
his mouth were unintelligible but he left no doubt in my mind that he
was fully devoted to his role and bringing Fitzgerald alive instead of
just Hardy playing a character named Fitzgerald. He was simply amazing.

With all this said, there are still flaws in the film. At some points
it was dragging on and moving too slow. It gave the impression that the
film itself was cocky and wanted to show off all of its beautiful
scenery and camera work too much. Then there was the "he shouldn't be
alive" situations. Hugh Glass was a real guy that really did survive a
bear mauling but in the film they make this guy practically immortal.
There were too many instances where I was thinking "he should be dead
three times over right now, for me to enjoy the film as much I should
have. 

All in all a great film that I only recommend to seasoned and mature
film viewers.
<|_=00=_|>
Take the direction of Alejandro González Iñárritu, combine it with the
stunning cinematography of Emmanuel Lubezki and toss in Leonardo
DiCaprio and Tom Hardy for their acting charms and what do you get? An
extraordinary and masterful film.

Fresh off of 'Birdman,' Iñárritu moved straight on to 'The Revenant,' a
western-epic inspired by the true-life experiences of frontiersman Hugh
Glass in the winter-struck landscape of 1820s America. The film gained
some notoriety in mid-2015 for its production problems and has thus
been regarded one of the most challenging film shoots in the history of
cinema. Rightfully so. The film opens with the soothing sound of
running water, thrusting the audience into an almost meditative state,
and then it strikes, an action-packed sequence ensues with a near
single sweeping take. Now this is a spoiler-free review, so I'll leave
the pleasure of viewing that scene to you.

This film heavily evokes reactions from the audience and does so well,
whether it's staring at the screen in awe or gasping at the visceral
violence, if you face this film with the right attitude and
expectations, it will be a thrill ride like no other. Lubezki has
proved that he is one of the most fantastic cinematographers of modern
cinema, and the extensive use of natural lighting over artificial
supports that statement even further, the film is beyond stunning.
Supporting this is the score from the relatively unknown composers,
believe me, when the sudden orchestral boom strikes your eardrums, it's
mesmerising.

The makeup, the direction, the editing, the visual aesthetics, and of
course the performances from a hopefully soon-to-be Oscar winning
DiCaprio, 'The Revenant' is a visual treat for those who appreciate
cinema and for those who wish to just get absorbed by the immense
landscapes and poetic justice Iñárritu has given it. This is, for me, a
modern masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
What an absolute waste of 2.5 hours.

It didn't look like it was going to be my type of film, but the trailer
was very convincing, not to mention the plethora of award nominations
it has received, so I decided to give it a go.

Mistake.

It started with a collection of superb actors, delivering solid
performances. Despite what I've read, I thought Tom Hardy's accent was
spot on - that is what that accent sounds like! Domhnall Gleeson is in
everything these days, for good reason, and Will Poulter was certainly
endearing. Leonardo DiCaprio was excellent, dragging oneself through
the snow post-bear mauling should be pretty torturous, and as we know
from Wolf of Wall Street's infamous 'Ludes' scene, DiCaprio is a pro at
crawling and grunting.

A cast such as this should have delivered an outstanding movie, so I
can only assume something went catastrophically wrong with the script.
Because my God was it BORING.

There was absolutely zero character development. If you're going to
produce something that is on the long side, at least give me something
to work with here? The son was killed so early (and following so few
lines) I genuinely didn't care, which didn't help to lay a foundation
for why I should care about Glass's prolonged revenge mission. 

As well as the characters being entirely 2D, they also quickly became
parodies of themselves. "The Revenant Presents: Domhnall Gleeson as the
Principled Yet Naive Captain (who must die as punishment for his
ineptitude); Tom Hardy as the Southern Villain (with no redeeming
features, who likewise must die to maintain the idea of a Just World);
Will Poulter as the Impressionable Young Soldier-type and Leonardo
DiCaprio as the Tortured Hero. Don't forget the Arrogant French
Braggarts, and the Wise Yet Ruthless Indigenous People. Oh and Tom
Hardy's Random Cockney Friend."

While I still think Hardy's accent was well executed, the choice to use
an accent which is often a source of ridicule (I'm not endorsing that
view) only served to undermine the tension rather than build it, making
him seem like a fool rather than a dangerous adversary. Admittedly, he
did a kill a number of people so maybe playing The Fool was his way of
lulling everyone into a false sense of security.

DiCaprio was convincing in his role of the Aggrieved Father avenging
the death of his son, but his journey of adversity quickly became
absurd rather than laudable. The bear attack was BRUTAL, and as his
company quickly concluded, it seems unlikely he would have survived his
injuries, particularly when being carted around in the depth of winter. 

But no, not only does he survive, he also survives Hardy's attempt to
smother him, and being dragged into a partial burial, as well as
witnessing the murder of his son (which would be enough to render any
of us catatonic). OK, this might be plausible, maybe.

Then he wanders around for a bit, spurred on by the prospect of
vengeance, before being nearly drowned in a river. Again, the trip down
the rapids would have been enough to drown the average man, let alone
someone who has just suffered a savage bear attack followed by an
attempted smothering. But no, he comes to a gentle stop at the river
bank and has a nap - mysteriously without succumbing to hypothermia.

Cue more wandering, some assistance from a kindly fellow wanderer, and
yet more wandering.

As if three potential deaths weren't enough (four if you account for
the bear effectively attacking him twice), he's then under attack by
the very people who's daughter he's just rescued, and not only does he
not get shot (despite these people having been shown to be
frighteningly accurate), his horse RIDES HIM OFF A CLIFF and surprise,
surprise - HE LIVES! In fact, he doesn't just survive it, he guts the
dead horse and SLEEPS INSIDE IT. *Beats chest asserting manliness*

By the end I was desperate for one of them to just kill the other so I
could go home. Tom Hardy finally met his maker - not before uttering
the obligatory moral message that revenge doesn't make us feel better.

The Revenant is a classic case of style over substance. Fantastic
actors, slipping effortlessly into a range of clichéd characters,
stunning cinematography, and zero emotion. I'm a crier, I will cry at
the majority of films and TV shows (and occasionally books), so the
fact that I not only didn't cry, but felt absolutely nothing towards
any of the characters, says it all.

It's clearly a polarising piece of work, I've seen many other reviews
here that echo my sentiments, yet my boyfriend loved it, and the
average rating is currently 8.3! Unfortunately, Award Land appears to
be siding with my other half. This year's Oscar Best Picture category
is a crowded race with several worthy contenders - but the Revenant is
not one, and I really hope it doesn't win.

Does DiCaprio deserve the nomination? He was one of the better things
in this film, and playing such a role must have pushed him to his
physical limits, so maybe he does. Frankly, he's massively overdue one
so for God's sake just give the man an Oscar and let's forget this
absurd study in masculine pride ever existed.
<|_=00=_|>
The natural landscape and some of the scenes are overwhelming and
spectacular! The camera-work is so immersive, you believe are a part of
Hugh Glass' journey through the wilderness and back to civilization.
Also with great performances not only by DiCaprio, but also Hardy, as
the unsympathetic fellow fur trapper leaving Glass behind. 

Story-wise, it is a bit thin for a 156 min picture. Glass' quest for
vengeance is sometimes lost as he utters few words about his drive and
is being more or less, chased himself. The story arc of the Indians
quest for their daughter felt a bit out of place and strange. We also
get to see the fur trappers p.o.v. that left Glass behind and the
Captain way ahead of them. Which in my opinion takes a little bit of
the magic of Glass' total perilous journey.

All my stars goes to the beauty, production value and performances
alone! Regardless, this is one of those overlong movies one like, but
would not sit out for another viewing!
<|_=00=_|>
I was hoping for something a bit more interesting than Hollywood's
standard approach to cowboys and indians, especially as the film seems
to have been critically acclaimed and Leo is a great actor. 

The quality of the camera-work is excellent and the bear mauling scene
very accomplished if that is the right way to describe such a visceral
few minutes. But oh the plot. If you try to take it seriously it fails
utterly. As an Indiana Jones caper it lacks wit. Too often you say 'I
know he'd be dead from hypothermia/blood loss etc etc in any possible
world but I'll just keep watching in case something interesting
happens'. You ride your horse over a 150 foot drop, fall into a tree,
and survive. You travel downstream in an icy river in your fur coat and
don't drown/freeze. You manage to light a fire even when you are
9/10ths dead, there are no branches and you're flint went a few scenes
ago. What a relief when the baddie is finally left to his fate, but
then you realise you've just wasted 2 hours of your life.
<|_=00=_|>
Go and see this movie. In the cinema. As soon as possible.

Simply put, it is an excellent story of family, revenge, survival, and
nature.

The Revenant is one of the most beautifully-shot films I have ever
seen. I lost count of how many scenes I sat there in utter amazement,
which is undoubtedly due to the brilliant directing and spectacular
cinematography: there's no shaky-cam, no quick-cut editing, and a lot
of incredibly complex shots which appear to have been completed in a
single take. If all films were shot similarly to how the Revenant is,
then the movie industry would drastically improve.

The entire cast did a phenomenal job and they all deserve recognition
for their performances; however, if Leonardo DiCaprio doesn't win an
Oscar for his breathtaking portrayal of Glass then that will be the
single biggest injustice of the year.

Do not miss the opportunity to see this masterpiece on the big screen!

UPDATE: I've read an unnerving amount of other user's reviews
complaining about the plot. I can understand that the plot may seem a
little basic or perhaps lacking at times; however, the plot is not what
makes this film so excellent, and I feel as though those who failed to
recognise this have seriously missed out. You don't just watch the
Revenant: you experience it. Every single element from the music to the
cinematography is cleverly concocted to draw you into the film and put
you alongside the cast in the brutal wintry conditions. If you've not
been drawn in due to being too concerned with the premise of the story,
then I fear you've missed a truly enthralling and one-of-a-kind
cinematic experience.

UPDATE TWO: Leo won the Oscar!
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see "The Revenant" on the day that it was nominated for 12
Oscars, which certainly sets the expectation that it is going to be
good  and it is. But I saw it described by DiCaprio as an "epic
art-house western" and that's a good description. In the same way that
Iñárritu's "Birdman" (this time last year) was unarguably a brilliant
but not very mainstream film, so I think the Oscar buzz will attract a
big audience to this movie who may find it a struggle to really enjoy.
Because it is bleak unremittingly bleak, in terms of the landscape,
the weather and the motives of the characters. It is also extremely
violent but, unlike "The Hateful Eight" (another film I saw this week
that was unremittingly bleak) the violence is much more gritty,
realistic and visceral making the drama a lot more compelling.

DiCaprio plays "Hugh Glass", an historical figure who was a legendary
fur-trapper in the early 1800's and the central figure in this
bear-related yarn. Although the story has been re-embroidered over the
years, the 'facts' align with the film's basic story (there's a good
"Daily Telegraph" article outlining this - see the link on
bob-the-movie-man.com).

Attacked and pursuing by local natives, Glass's party is striking
across woodland when he is viciously attacked by a 500lb Grizzly bear.
Although appearing mortally wounded, he is a highly respected
individual and so is stretchered up by his boss Captain Henry (Domhnall
Gleeson). Unable to proceed further, Henry pays for the mercenary John
Fitzgerald (Tom Hardy) to stay with him, together with his half-Pawnee
son Hawk and friend Bridger (Will Poulter), to die in peace.
Predictably, Fitzgerald is not to be trusted, and Glass is abandoned in
a shallow grave. If this is not enough, for other reasons we won't go
into, Glass has even less inclination to keep his fellow trapper on his
Christmas card list. Thus is set up a classic revenge movie, with Glass
determined to stay alive to enact that revenge despite the enormous
odds stacked against him.

This is surely DiCaprio's year for his elusive Oscar as he turns in a
cripplingly painful performance. It is clear that the suffering on
screen is not all acting  it cannot be, given the inhospitable
conditions in which the crew were filming (in Canada and Argentina). As
examples he had to eat raw bison liver as well as suffering a much
discussed Han "I thought they smelled bad on the outside" Solo moment.
Despite having very few lines to deliver, DiCaprio is on screen for 90%
of the time, and it is a bravura performance.

Tom Hardy  also Oscar nominated  is also impressive as the villain of
the piece, although for most of the time his lines might have well been
delivered through his Bain mask for the sense they made. He is an
inveterate mumbler.

Domhnall Gleeson's performance is also compelling, adding a degree of
goodness and compassion to the film that was so missing from "The
Hateful 8". (Gleeson is surely vying this year with Ben Whishaw for the
busiest mainstream film appearances after this, "Ex Machina",
"Brooklyn" and "Star Wars"). Finally Will Poulter gets a chance to
shine in an A-grade mainstream dramatic movie and he well and truly
makes that grade.

Director Alejandro G. Iñárritu has to be commended for eschewing the
use of green screens, insisting on live performances and in natural
light to boot. Stylistically (and indeed story-wise) the film has many
parallels with "Gladiator", with its effective and artistically
constructed dream sequences. But the film is not without special
effects, and these are phenomenal, most incredibly delivered during the
relentless and gruelling bear attack scene: a seamless blend of live
animal work and effects that make it horrifically believable.

There is also some fantastic camera work (by Emmanuel Lubezki) of the
"how the hell did they do that variety". Recalling his work in
"Birdman" it's challenging to do single tracking shots of people
walking through buildings. To do these same tracking shots during a
pitched battle scene is just phenomenal. During one scene in this
harrowing sequence at the film's start, the camera is on the ground
filming a native galloping towards a victim, then the camera is
seamlessly filming the rider as he gallops away. Astonishing.

The only area I really didn't care for was the music, by Carsten
Nicolai and Ryuichi Sakamoto. A combination of droning strings and
(later) some whiny "Ligeti-style" elements, it was in turns intrusive,
gloomy and annoying. Music should largely stay in the background to set
the mood. This didn't.

Overall, this is a masterful film, but it is a slog and not a feel-good
film to sit through. It also has significant violence which might not
suit all viewers, with the final confrontation in particular being one
of the most visceral fight scenes I've seen in years.

By the way (I had to look it up) the definition of "revenant" is:

noun 

1. a person who returns

2. a person who returns as a spirit after death; ghost.

Now you know too  this public service announcement brought to you by
One Mann's Movies! (Please visit the graphical version of this review
at http://bob-the-movie-man.com. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot believe how many people think this is a good movie....watching
a guy struggle to survive for 2 hours ...come on people..I know there
are not many good movies being made but my word....so many things are
unbelievable...the bear attack, carrying a near dead guy out of the
wilderness up a mountain...going over a cliff on a horse and not
getting hurt...spending long periods of time in freezing cold
water.....surviving extreme cold overnight inside a dead horse...my god
the list is endless....and for Leo's so called acting don't get me
started...a lot of crawling and moaning and groaning....the whole thing
was a letdown and really a waste of time...also tell the director to
back the camera up a bit on those facial close-ups...they were also
ridiculous...trust me save your money and go see The Hateful Eight.
