
When I give this film a 6, it's being a bit generous. Trying to put
myself in other people's shoes, I'd say this film probably range
anywhere from a 3 to a 5, and then there will be those who hate it.
Still, I am likely to lean on the side of one of the few who likes the
film. But it's a mixed bag. Sure enough, the special effects, action,
and other elements are fantastic. But the film does little to develop
it's own character beyond their archetypes and the script seems content
to stay average at best.

Jupiter Ascending actually paints a pretty fascinating sci-fi universe.
As it turns out, Earth, and thousands of other worlds like it, are
owned by a number of different families which act like corporations who
seed these worlds. Once the worlds become over populated, their people
are harvested to create a youth serum which keeps those living in the
corporate society young for millennia after millennia. In this case,
the Abraxis family is one of the most powerful and each of three heirs
is vying for control of Earth. Standing in their way, however, is
Jupiter Jones, who turns out to be the genetic reincarnation of the
Abraxis' sibling's mother, and claimant to the throne of the family. 

If all of that sounds like a lot to take in, it is, and easily the best
part of the film. The Wachowski's have a talent for creating
fascinating worlds that feel complete. Here, they have created a
massive sci-fi universe the likes of which we haven't seen in at least
a decade, maybe longer. It's very clear that their ambition extends
beyond just this one story. In fact, there are hundreds of fascinating
stories that could be told about this universe. The idea of a corporate
controlled universe is timely, and where we've seen this story played
out before about the giant corporation versus the little guy, it's
never quite been told on this scale. 

It's a shame then that this ambition is wasted on a story that doesn't
seem to capitalize on such a universe. The story is good, but the
script is lacking and the characters never really become all that
interesting. They end up feeling like caricatures meant to introduce us
to this world we've entered. They're histories are explained and they
clearly have fleshed out back stories, but they feel almost lifeless in
that they seem to be here only to be an aspect of this world and not a
full character. Even as a lead character, Channing Tatum as Caine feels
like little more than a body meant to perform choreography and defend
Milas Kunis' Jupiter. At the very least, Jupiter is a sympathetic
character who shows shades of change, but even she often feels like
little more than a narrator meant to ask question for exposition
purposes. Eddie Redmayne seems to have the juiciest part, and though he
still seems to be a one dimensional villain, he shows emotional depth
that the other characters lack. 

Most people I suspect will have trouble forgiving the lack of a truly
meaningful script and characters that are too one dimensional. But the
good news is that the film isn't a complete loss. The action, which the
Wachowski's have proved to have a handle on, is fantastic. This is Star
Wars level stuff, with space battles and well choreographed martial art
duels. The cool tech thrown in, like the gravity boots, add some
imaginative spice that once again shows the Wachowski's propensity for
finding ways to justify making a 12 year old's imagination a reality.
It's some truly fun stuff. Likewise, the world we're introduced to
looks fantastic. The special effects make believable some very
interesting and exciting details, such as the multitude of gadgets and
weapons we're witness to. It's clear that the Wachowski's have set out
to create a unique universe, and in my estimation, they have succeeded.
I'm a sucker for this kind of world crafting, and so they get higher
marks from me. 

Of course, I can see why the film was pushed back to the dumping
grounds of February. This was meant to be a summer blockbuster, but up
against so many big, successful films, it would have a hard time
competing. I have the distinct feeling this is going to be a film that
gets left behind this year, especially in favor of bigger films being
released throughout 2015. Had the film been more focused on it's
characters and less on exposition of the universe we're witnessing,
then I feel it could have succeeded and become a modern sci-fi classic.
But as is, it falls short. Honestly, I do hope for a sequel to this, if
only to see this universe continue to get development. Perhaps a sequel
would fulfill the ambition the Wachowski's clearly seek to build upon.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure how to start this review so I'll just get right into it:
This movie isn't good. It makes no sense. There is no room to get
immersed in this world because there is no story to relate to. It's all
just stuff happening; fluff. Beautiful, well made fluff mind you, but
at its core this movie is a steaming hot mess.

Here's the plot from what I gathered: Mila Kunis is suddenly the
majesty of the Earth and has to protect it from a bunch of rich
douchebags that live in Jupiter's atmosphere who want to use it for
harvesting grounds or something. It's a dumb plot, and every scene that
tries to move the plot forward is a scene wasted. The only interesting
parts of this movie are the visuals and Channing Tatum's character, but
even he is given absolutely no character development. He's just a
badass space agent, or something. I don't even remember.

The characters end up the same way they began - there was no journey to
redemption or revelation for anyone. It was just do this, do that, stop
this, go home, the end. And they try to include multiple stories, like
Mila Kunis' relationship with her family (boooring); Caine (Tatum) and
Stinger's (Sean Bean) history (wholly underdeveloped), the whole
villain arc...

The villains in this movie are spoiled brats. Seriously. They're not
scary, they're not intimidating, there was no point in the movie where
I was like "oh man sh*t is about to go down"; there was just no
intrigue. Their motives were all over the place. It's not worth trying
to piece together every plot point they throw into the movie because it
will just lead to confusion and disappointment, and eventually
frustration when you realize how much potential was wasted in creating
this massive universe. The lizards looked really cool. Why not have
more of them? Oh we're just going to focus on the playboy brat now,
okay.

I really wanted to care about this universe. It has a Star Wars vibe in
parts, like the "royal" wedding scene and the space battles, but there
were no good characters to experience this adventure with. You're just
watching things happen with no consequences, or at least none you cared
about.

The acting was fine in this movie. Channing Tatum and Sean Bean in
particular gave great performances, and Eddie Redmayne as the primary
antagonist was decent as well. Yeah, he's an Academy Award winner, and
as much as I hate to say it I have not seen The Theory of Everything
yet but I loved him in Les Mis so I was really hoping he would save
this movie. Unfortunately the material he's given is absolute garbage,
so in an effort to make the character stand out, Redmayne give him a
weird, eerie, whisper voice that was akin to a hundred year old man
trying to force words out from the back of his throat. But hey, I think
it worked. The guy is completely unlikeable so might as well give him a
unique trait to remember him by. Good on Mr. Redmayne because he
succeeded. The only things I will remember about this movie are the
cool visuals, the wasted potential, and his creepy voice.

Don't see this movie. Unless you want to see some really great CGI for
a couple hours, which can be found in much better places by the way,
you won't find anything worth salvaging from Jupiter Ascending. It was
a nice effort but ultimately a swing and a miss.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie feels like it was written by a ten year old girl hooked on
drugs. Cardboard characters are so undeveloped that they should have
stayed in authors womb for few more months/years. Bad acting and "I
don't care about what is going on" attitude from the actors brings
final nail to this movie coffin. There is nothing substantial in this
movie, nothing that can teach us something new about ourselves or the
world around us, which is quite odd for the science fiction movie. True
the cinematography of the movie is first class, but it only saddens me
that it is used on such bad material. In the end don't get fooled by
this movie. Its only purpose is to take your money with bright lights
and a false promise, but it will leave you with a mouth full of ash,
wondering why you wasted your time.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll be upfront and warn those contemplating watching Jupiter Ascending
that you need to go in with low expectations to enjoy the film. Unless
your idea of what makes a film good is huge explosions, pretty
characters prancing around in elaborate costumes and beautiful visuals.
After all, who cares about plot, lines and pacing right?

Jupiter Ascending is really very much a visual feast but nothing more
than that. The action sequences are generally well paced and I applaud
the fact that CGI for the actions were kept minimal. The costumes are
stunning (as are the actors).

Which is a great pity because, on paper, Jupiter Ascending really had
potential.

For a start, like all sci-fi films, Jupiter Ascending is ambitious in
its storytelling. An entirely different reality of an alternative
universe with its own ecosystem, species and history is created. There
are soldiers spliced with animal DNAs such as Caine (Channing Tatum)
who has some wolf in him and Stinger (Sean Bean) who has some bee in
him (guess where they got their names from?). There was potential to
explore and mine all that richness for more stories but this is
undermined by the weak delivery of the first film in what the studios
were probably hoping would be a new franchise.

While the plot of Jupiter Ascending was hackneyed, it had pretty
interesting characters whose backstories would have been fun for the
audience to explore. I could have seen the many fanfiction pieces that
fans would have spun off from the story of Caine, Jupiter and the
Abrasax family. Let's be honest, the basic plot line of The Matrix, the
film franchise that the Wachowskis are renowned for, was pretty cliché
too  the story of a Chosen One who comes out of nowhere and whose
destiny is to save the world. It was the treatment of this plot premise
(as well as really cool action sequences and visuals) that made The
Matrix such a groundbreaking series. Jupiter Ascending's basic plot
premise was this too but the treatment was a complete letdown.

The cast is also one that is renowned for not just their good looks but
also their ability to act. Somehow though, the directors succeeded in
not tapping on that ability. I can't help but wonder what kind of
directions Andy and Lana Wachowskis gave Eddie Radmayne for me to give
such an exaggerated and overly affected performance as Balem. It
reminds me somewhat chillingly of how Natalie Portman almost killed her
career with her expressionless and emotionless turn as Amidala in the
Stars Wars prequel trilogy. At least Radmayne has The Theory of
Everything that is out in the same season and that can probably help
cushion the fallout from Jupiter Ascending.

To the Wachowskis' credit, Mila Kunis and Channing Tatum have some
chemistry. While their performances are not going to garner them any
Oscars, they put in decent performances to, I think, ward off any
Razzie nominations. It also helps that they are pretty easy on the eye.
Apart from these three actors, it is hard to discern the performances
put in by the rest of the cast as their characters do not appear to add
to the story. It makes it difficult for one to give a fair critique of
their performances hence I'll refrain from that here.

Jupiter Ascending could also have been one of the few female-led action
films that could have been a successful film franchise, showing that
when female-led action films succeed, it's not necessarily a quirk.
This would have been helpful in Hollywood's evolution (if you haven't
figured out from my name, yes, I'm female).

It also could have been the film that would have move the Wachowskis'
career out of its current state where the siblings are now more
renowned for the visual flash and bang in their films rather than the
creative storytelling and treatment that was showcased in The Matrix.
<|_=00=_|>
This was easily one of the worst movies I have ever been to. What else
can be said. Everything about it was just awful. And I went in knowing
it was going to be a terrible story, but maybe I would enjoy the
special effects and action scenes. Unfortunately, a man-dog wearing
eyeliner roller skating in the air fighting bad guys looks as
ridiculous and dumb as it sounds. Mila Kunis felt completely miscast
and had no chemistry with Channing Tatum, who was playing the same
boring dumb hero he always does. The action sequences were a mess...
impossible to tell what was going on.

I watch a lot of movies and have only walked out on a handful in my
life, but I could not make it through more than 70 minutes of this
ridiculous film. Don't waste your time. It's awful.

It boggles my mind how a movie like this gets made. Someone please stop
these two from making any more!
<|_=00=_|>
Guys, this movie was a joke It seems like they took all the extra
costumes from 'Flash Gordon', 'CG from any Transformer movie,
"screenwriting" from 'The Last Starfighter', and character development
for 'Gigli' and overall logic from 'The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai
across the 8th Dimension' and put them together!

Basic breakdown

Act I. Kidnap + Rescue + Channing Tatum on magic roller-skates +
Redmayne Overacting

Act II. Kidnap + Rescue + Channing Tatum on magic roller-skates +
Redmayne Overacting

Act III. Kidnap + Rescue + Mila Kunis on magic roller-skates
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Jupiter Ascending tonight (after a VERY long wait I might add).
Sadly it is not in the vain of other Wachowski films in terms of
thought- provoking subject matter; however, I feel this film is being
very unfairly criticized. 

No: the subject matter is not as deep or profound as in The Matrix, V
for Vendetta, or the masterful Cloud Atlas. But it was never advertised
to be that kind of film--it's a solid blockbuster movie (with plenty of
room for sequels and/or prequels). I'd see it again!

If you're considering watching this film, but hesitate after reading
the same scathing reviews that I came across, just consider what
interests you about the movie: if you're looking a movie with a complex
plot and lots of underlying messages, this might not be the best
choice. It's a blockbuster film pure and simple. A good one! But a very
typical blockbuster/action/romance movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I would have thought that after the 15+ years since The Matrix that
consumers would be less and less dazzled by visual effects in film, but
apparently I was the only one to take the red pill and see beyond the
illusion of this movie. Sure you'll get otherworldly visuals and some
pretty neat future-tech in Jupiter Ascending but that's where the
takeaway stops. 

The story is a classic one where a seemingly insignificant individual,
in this case Jupiter Jones (Kunis), is suddenly thrust into a much
larger and complicated universe than her day-to-day as a maid. As fate
would have it, she happens to be the reincarnation of the matriarch of
an extremely powerful dynasty that controls a vast industrial empire in
the galaxy. The oldest heir to the mother's inheritance is none other
than Oscar-nominee Eddie Redmayne, who for whatever reason has
difficulty speaking and doesn't want Jupiter to claim what is
rightfully hers. 

I'll give the Wachowskis that they they've created an incredibly
elaborate alternate universe that is equally rich in scope and
potential, but they fail to generate the least bit of depth to their
characters. Every person you meet is a one-dimensional caricature you'd
find in some other sci-fi story.

Honestly the scope is too ambitious to warrant any initial investment
in Jupiter or any of the other supporting actors like Channing Tatum
and Sean Bean. It's literally just 2 hours of zero-tension action
sequences and clichéd dialogue that lead to a resolution that the
audience couldn't care less about. 

Sure the tech is pretty cool and I was pleasantly surprised by the
design of the ships and planetary locales, but the novelty of seeing
Channing Tatum ice-skate around the air fighting aliens that pose
little threat wears off after the first scene. It's like watching the
Jedi take on the droids in the Star Wars Prequels. Why even bother
putting them in the way if they don't pose the slightest inconvenience
to our protagonists?

I can appreciate science fantasy that dazzles and delights in an
original universe, but eventually the tunnel-vision wears off and you
realize that there is very little to keep you invested in the story.
The planet Jupiter might actually be the most ironic and appropriate
metaphor for this movie since - sure it's pretty to look - but then you
realize you're just looking a big ball of the two most common gasses in
the universe. 

Read the expanded version and other reviews on the Drive-In Zeppelin
website
<|_=00=_|>
Jupiter Ascending, a film that deals with subjects that I'm sure a
millennia old advanced species would have no interest in, such as
wealth, materialism, physical appearances and girl crushes. A totally
shallow film with not a single redeeming feature. The Wachowskis should
be ashamed of themselves. It was a good job we had a gift certificate
because if we had spent the full £20 on the film I would have been
mortified. I walked out before the end of the film as I didn't care the
slightest about the fate of any of the characters and it was pretty
obvious that the ending would be a complete happy ending cliché. These
sorts of films make me want to give up on the modern film industry,
they only spew out high budget garbage to appease the idiots. Excuse me
while I go watch some Hitchcock or something. Urgh.
<|_=00=_|>
Jupiter Ascending, quite literally, is one of the most beautiful movies
I have ever seen. The visual effects and CGI were top notch; nothing
looked unfinished. Everything from explosions and action scenes, to
space ships and settings, this movie had all the "eye candy" one could
want. The fighting sequences were executed perfectly; each one
thrilling in its own way. Each singular planet or world was so stunning
and precisely crafted, that one could almost feel themselves in it. The
Wachowskis have made a truly gorgeous universe in their latest movie. 

Michael Giacchino's music fits each scene very nicely whether it is a
fast paced chase scene, or a quiet and thoughtful scene. It has a
mysterious and almost hollow beauty to it, which fits this movie
perfectly.

Alas, not everything in this movie is as good as the visuals. Channing
Tatum and Mila Kunis give surprisingly good performances for the most
part but some of their acting is just off. The other principal actors
give good performances as well but all the acting could have been taken
a notch higher. 

Story and Plot is where this movie is weakest though. It has so much
ambition and intricacy that it is to much to fit in a two hour long
movie. Even though two hours is a good length, the plot just wants to
keep on going and therefor the loose ends are never quite tied up. The
plot is never really explained to its entirety and while one can figure
out the general idea, it is hard to go deep into it. It has huge
potential but rather than using it, it discards it. I give it credit
for being fairly original though, and not a sequel, reboot, or based of
a graphic novel or book. Originality is a great thing and the
Wachowskis do it best. 

Overall Jupiter Ascending lacked plot depth and great acting abilities,
but it won it all back with groundbreaking visuals. Even though many
more big movies are coming out in 2015, this one would be one of the
best for all we know. It may not be everyone's piece of cake, but it
sure is a fun sci-fi adventure that shouldn't be forgotten.
