
You probably don't understand the movie or like it if you never watch
the series, but if you watched the series you probably love it, is
great the last adventure of the gang, so you will enjoy a one last time
of entourage in 140 minutes of memories and comedy. If you don't watch
the series, you may probably see this movie and don't understand a
thing, or maybe you probably don't find it funny, so my advice is very
simple, if you watch the full series, you're gonna love it, if you
don't you can probably say that this movie is bad, but personally i
love it. The movie follow the story and doesn't miss a detail of it.
PS: i love Johnny Drama.
<|_=00=_|>
If you were an avid fan of the TV show you will LOVE this movie and be
waiting for the next one. Throw in our favorite 4 is back, Ari Gold
being well ARI GOLD, an interesting but simple story line and a cameo
of guest star appearances from basically everyone Mark Walberg knows or
who he has acted with and it works so well!

The reviews on this page are harsh it is almost like the people were
never fans of the series yet expected the movie to be different?!

Best example I can give, is someone going to watch the Family Guy movie
or the Simpson movie, yet hates the series, and is disappointed to find
they dislike the movie - SHOCKER!
<|_=00=_|>
Entourage isn't a very good movie. It's hard to even call it a movie
because it's basically Entourage season 9 crammed into an hour and a
half theatrical film. It picks up right where the show left off and
continues with the same subtle banter humor and Ari Gold proving again
why he's one of the best characters ever written. People who haven't
seen the show will be confused, or at least bored, with the characters
because they really have no development throughout this movie. There
are simply too many characters to make a movie like this work. A
mini-series? Absolutely. It would've been great to flesh out some of
these subplots with multiple episodes. But a feature film? It doesn't
quite work.

The entourage are up to their usual shenanigans. Vince wants to direct
a movie, Drama wants to get his acting break, Turtle wants to go out
with Ronda Rousey, and E is having a baby with Sloan. Ari's storyline
is by far the most engaging. Being a studio head now, everything is
riding on Vince's movie to perform well in order to save Ari's (and
Vince's) reputation, and in order to do that he needs to get funds from
two financiers from Texas - a father-son duo played to perfection by
Billy Bob Thornton and Haley Joel Osment respectively. Oddly enough, I
found their scenes to be the most interesting of the movie. Larsen
(Thornton) sends his son Travis (Osment) to Hollywood with Ari to see
the movie early and to ensure it's worth putting up the extra funds,
and Ari LOATHES it. Some of the funniest scenes come from the stress
these guys put on Ari and there are a couple classic Ari outbursts.
What Thornton and Osment really bring to the movie is a reality check.
Larsen only cares about money - he never watches the movies, he's
simply an investor, so naturally he and Ari clash when it comes to
defending Vince's artistic freedom. It was these moments where
Entourage felt more like a movie. There was tension, conflict, and
although the Texans are written as the villains, their motives are
actually grounded and understandable, especially for a movie as
extravagant and gratuitous as this.

To get the most out of Entourage, it must be seen directly after the
show. It feels like the show never skipped a step. The writing is on
point, the characters are the ones you know and love from before, and
it has even more celebrity cameos (probably the most in any movie
ever). I'd love to see an Entourage mini-series if they decide to
continue this, but I was perfectly satisfied with this movie granting
some closure to the group. There's even a priceless shot of the
entourage walking down the red carpet with The Who's "Eminence Front"
playing in the background. It's perfect.

If you've never seen the show and are expecting a standard raunch
comedy, then Entourage might fall flat. However, if you want to make
the most out of it, watch the show (it's totally worth it) and then the
movie, and it will make the experience better by a tenfold. It's an
hour and a half of the gang up to their usual antics, and it's a
boatload of fun.
<|_=00=_|>
It's no masterpiece, but they weren't aiming for that. It's for fans of
the show who want to see the boys back together. A kind of celebration
of Entourage, with cameos all over the place - fun to watch. It's lost
some charm of the TV show, but it's still escapism and entertainment.

It's out of its depth as a movie on the big screen though, but it's
better than nothing. It's a good way to wrap the whole thing up. I
highly doubt we'll see them ever again.

This time, there's more money, more girls, and more of everything. I'm
giving it 6 out of 10 because it tries to fit too much into 90 minutes
which would have taken possibly a whole season otherwise. 

It's clunky and heavy-handed compared with the TV show. The problem
with a movie is that we don't get the cliff-hangers we got with each
episode. Nor do we get to see details explored in depth. In a movie,
everything is compressed into 90 minutes, and it changes the flow to
something that doesn't feel right. 

The writing is "safe". It's in 'movie-mode', and there's a formula at
work. Again, less charm than the TV show.

Lastly, the movie that Vince directs, "Hyde" looks like a music video
clip not a movie. We see only a small clip, but it looks like a
trailer.

We should have seen more on set of Hyde, with Vince directing. But we
don't see much at all because there's too many girls in bikini scenes
to get through. They never showed Vince working his magic on set, which
I think could have been explored more to gain at least some credibility
and rise, even for a moment, above the juvenile materialism. 

Some of the comedy is a bit weak too. But in the end, it's Entourage,
so you go along for the ride, and enjoy it even with its flaws.
<|_=00=_|>
The boys pick up right where the series ended and they don't skip a
beat. Ari is quick to offer Vince the lead role in his first picture as
studio head. Only problem is Vince has decided the next movie he does
he also wants to direct. So with the movie going over budget with the
boys focus quite a few problems as usual. Plus turtle is now a multi-
multimillionaire just thought I should mention that. Now Vince is
having problems with the financers of the movie over a girl. Not only
does he want drama replaced he also wants Vinny the star and director
replaced, are you willing to put anything on the line to stop that.
Great for fans only problem I had with it is that it had to squeeze a
season worth of material into a half and hour movie. People who have
not seen the show will be able to follow along although they will not
get many references that people who watch the show will. There was
plans to make a sequel and possibly a trilogy but with low box office
success that unfortunately may not be the case. Hopefully they can come
up with a budget to at least make a sequel. Plus there's cameos from
about anyone you can think of from common to Russell Wilson to Mark
Wahlberg to Liam Neeson. Definitely worth checking out especially if
you're a fan of the show.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a big fan of the original TV series, although it did go downhill
towards the end. 

In essence this feels like the producers are trying to squeeze the last
bit of revenue from the franchise before it dies. Without the goodwill
from the TV series this film would have gone straight to video and I
doubt I would even be reviewing it.

They have included themes from most Entourage episodes and mashed them
into a single thin story. Pointless cameos (Warren Buffet - really?),
gratuitous sex and liberal use of bad language add to the impression
that the producers have run out of ideas.

Unimaginative, tired and contrived.
<|_=00=_|>
Vincent Chase is married but his wife walks out on their honeymoon. He
decides to have a party and his former agent now Studio boss Ari Gold
offers him a big role. He would do it only if he gets to direct. Some
time later, the movie is almost done but over budget. Ari Gold is not
happy and has to get the money from Texan Larsen McCredle and his son
Travis. He's stressed as usual. Lloyd Lee is getting married. E's ex
Sloan is having his baby. Vince is hot for Emily Ratajkowski. Turtle is
now rich and he fights Ronda Rousey.

The gang is back and it's the same old, same old. I'm a fan of the TV
show but the last few seasons were marking time. The movie has many
more cameos. There are probably too many. Ronda Rousey is not
necessarily a good actress but she's still better than Emily
Ratajkowski. Rousey and Turtle are actually a cute couple. Ari is great
as usual and I love his part of the movie. On the other hand, E's
melodrama isn't fun. The story isn't quite there. There is not enough
good material for a TV episode, let along a whole movie.
<|_=00=_|>
ENTOURAGE, the movie adaptation of the HBO series with the same title,
has too many concerns to juggle with its utterly vapid and tawdry
script. It's almost always expected that stories with multiple lead
characters eventually suffer through bland and unfocused narrative,
part of which may be atrributed to the fact that most of such
screenplays generally fit for long-term storytelling. Such flaw is
inevitably at large in this big screen take of the 8-season series.

The movie follows Vincent Chase (Adrien Grenier), who, after his failed
marriage, realizes he wants something new for his career. So when his
former agent-turned-studio-head Ari Gold (Jeremy Piven) offers him a
lead role for his studio's debut film, he agrees, on condition that he
gets to direct the big screen project. Months later, the movie is
pursued but still 15million behind completion.

Such pursuit is never engaging to follow. While the whole movie-making
thing is made here a fascinating subject to tackle, the string of tepid
and uninspired proceedings, robs all the interest and leaves a
crumbling narrative, bereft of even the littlest of sense. Soon enough,
the film spirals into too many other concerns that from the get go, are
uninteresting and unnecessary . The focus then shifts to multiple loud
parties, where elaborate garish exhibitions of social lords are ever
the main attraction of the spotlight. Before you know, the whole movie
industry exposition is already relegated behind the much less inviting
sequences that mostly involve skins and male superiority displays.
Plus, countless unflattering cameos are omnipresent to steal portions
of the rottening pie. By the time it comes back to its main subject,
there's only too little eagerness left for the final product.

Much of ENTOURAGE's disaster emanates from its inability to keep its
focus, and provide decent material for its actors to work with. The
main conflict doesn't even strike as something worth paying attention
to, and the resolution is unsatisfyingly cheap. While the film itself
calls for celebration, it would be hard to enjoy this ENTOURAGE of men,
when they barely have a feat to party for.
<|_=00=_|>
I've not written a review on here before (heck, I've written very few
reviews anywhere) but I felt compelled to write one for this movie.

In a nutshell, if you're a fan of the Entourage television series you
will enjoy the Entourage movie.

Without giving too much away the movie picks up pretty much straight
after the final episode of the show, and itself is essentially an
extended episode (3 or 4 of them strapped together) but with a bit more
money pumped in. It's not the most original movie, and the plot doesn't
exactly set the world alight, but that's not what Entourage is about.
It's about Vince, E, Drama and Turtle, and of course the brilliantly
angry Ari Gold, and the antics they get up to (and the trouble they
have to get out of) in the big flashy world of Hollywood. It's
far-fetched, it's over the top, there's nudity, swearing, alcohol,
drugs, sex  Everything that was in the TV show that made it great. Yet
this seems to not sit well with some people. It's not a realistic
representation of Hollywood  it's an entertaining playboy fantasy of
the world which is both fun and cringe worthy to watch at the same
time.

Entourage doesn't try to be anything it's not. If people had bigger,
wilder expectations they won't find it here. It's not trying to be
anything too serious and I expected the critics to pan it but I did not
expect the same harshness in the many user reviews I've read on the
web. Personally after a 4 year absence I was thrilled to be watching
the gang once again, and on the big screen this time. It felt like
coming home after being away and meeting back up with old friends
again. It felt like the TV series had never ended and I was back to
enjoying it as much as I did during its original run. Vince as always
is getting in over his head, E is trying hard to manage Vince and his
love life, Drama is as crude and embarrassing as ever, Turtle is, well,
Turtle  though a bit slimmer and wealthier than last time, and Ari is
the hilariously raging super-agent/studio head we all know and love.
All your favourite characters are there as well as the many cameos you
would expect, including the legendary Gary Busey (among others) once
again! I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, and so did my girlfriend 
who's never seen a single episode of the show, but now wants to get
into the DVD box set. We both laughed a lot, as did everyone else in
the cinema. Nobody walked out early, and nobody looked disappointed by
the film's end.

If you enjoyed the TV series do yourself a favour  don't pay too much
attention to the negative reviews you may read and just go and watch
this movie. It's everything I expected it to be, and now I'm just a
little sad that it's over again. As much as I enjoyed it I don't think
there should be another movie or TV series  it's been a good run, and
this was like a trip down memory lane. You don't want too much of a
good thing, so let's leave it on a high note.
<|_=00=_|>
The highly anticipated HBO series turned big screen movie, Entourage,
was everything its long time loyal fans had dreamed of. Four years
later the creator of Entourage, Doug Ellin, brings our favorite New
York City born and raised boys to the box office. With the gang finally
back together taking on new life experiences, mending relationships and
supporting each other through the good and bad times, Ellin delivers an
extra long Entourage episode and leaves the devoted fans wanting more.
Vincent Chase played by Adrian Grenier, Eric also known as E (Kevin
Connolly), Johnny Drama or Drama (Kevin Dillon), Turtle (Jerry Ferrara)
and the ever-vulgar yet charismatic Ari Gold (Jeremy Piven) embark on
another hilarious and charming journey together. This film is bursting
with quick- witted humor from every character big or small. The list of
special guest appearances of celebrities and athletes is endless and
perfect from Tom Brady to T.I., Rhonda Rousey and Emily Ratajkowski, it
doesn't disappoint. The film kicks off with the gang on a boat
celebrating Vince's divorce and the decision to get back in to the
world of Hollywood; only this time as a director. With Vince wanting to
direct and Ari's new position as a studio-head this combination makes
for a thrilling ride of heated arguments filled with crazy- inventive
insults from Ari and an insecure Vince wanting his directorial debut to
be flawless. Eric struggles with his personal relationship with Sloan,
as she is pregnant with his child and they have since broken up. Turtle
seems to have earned if not the same amount but possibly more money
than Vince thanks to his extremely successful tequila business. When
he's not driving his friends around the streets of L.A. he's literally
chasing and fighting Rhonda Rousey in an attempt to date her. Then we
have, Drama who is still battling to make it big in Hollywood but what
else is knew. Drama struggles with a hilarious scandal that goes viral,
making his name well known for reasons that have nothing to do with his
acting ability, or lack there of. Thankfully his younger, "baby bro"
Vince lands him a critical role in his new film "Hyde." Everything
seems to be going according to plan that is, until the most country
redneck father and son duo played by none other than Billy Bob Thornton
and Haley Joel Osment strongly dislike and no longer want to fund
Vince's film. My only disappointment was that I felt the overall acting
from the cast was rather poor and I considered some scenes unnatural
and almost forced. This was a shock due to the fact that I had never
felt this way before when it was a hit show on HBO for eight years. I'm
not sure if it is because Ellin thought there needed to be a villain or
large issue and then a bunch of mini issues to please the audience and
offer some closure at the end; but I did not enjoy it. A single request
for the next Entourage movie (or hopes for a ninth season) would be to
have the actors face other challenges and get back their groove. The
only one that looked the most comfortable, natural and believable was
Turtle. With that said, I still appreciate how close and supportive
this tight group of boys is and it has been a pleasure to witness their
true friendship and loyalty to one another. Like all the other
Entourage fans out there, I will patiently wait for the next chapter.
