
This is a taut drama/suspense film with a little romance and crime
thrown in for good measure. The biggest problem I'm having is deciding
which was better, the well done intertwining story lines, or the
detailed character development. Both were excellent, making for a movie
that is quite enjoyable and well worth watching.

The actors all did fine jobs, Eric Bana as the robber who is a killer,
Olivia Wilde as the little sister who maybe has outgrown her need to be
protected, Charlie Hunnam as her troubled but worthwhile romantic
interest, Sissy Spacek and Kris Kristofferson as his parents, Kate Mara
as the aspiring FBI agent deputy, and Treat Williams as her father the
Sheriff. Their performances were all worthy of this well written and
directed feature.

I have never heard of the writer or director, but I plan to watch for
more of their stuff. This one is not a long movie by today's standards,
but the pace of the action, and the time spent letting us figure out
each character are so well balanced.

Make sure your snacks are ready ahead of time as, once this one starts,
you will not want to miss a second of it (or even use the pause button
once it is out on DVD).

Simply put, this is a good movie. Even knowing what happens, I'll
probably watch it again sometime.
<|_=00=_|>
"Deadfall," is the story of a brother and sister, Addison (Eric Bana)
and Liza (Olivia Wilde) ,that decide to split up and go their separate
ways after a botched robbery and car accident. Through a chance meeting
and a twist of fate, the brother and sister are again reunited on
Thansgiving day, one that turns out to be anything but a great Holiday
for all parties (the siblings, a young police woman, a husband and
wife, and Liza's new love interest, a former Olympic medalist boxer
that has just got out of prison.

The Good: The acting all around was solid. Eric Bana pulls this one off
well especially considering he had to kill his Australian accent in
favor of a southern U.S. one. Olivia Wilde also pulled off her role,
but it's hard to tell, and I am definitely biased as she is great eye
candy, and has such beautiful sexy eyes. Charlie Hunnam who plays an
ex-Olympic Boxer turned ex-con, shows some skill as well and proves why
everyone loves the "Son's of Anarchy" series.

The writing was well done, and the setting and scenery does nothing to
hurt a good movie. There are a few action scenes that keep you from
losing interest through the drama. Once again having the distraction of
the delicious Olivia Wilde also does the trick as well. The
intertwining stories which sometimes can be overused and clich√© these
days was done in a rather good fashion that made it a worthy way of
making a movie. The character's themselves were well built so that you
find yourself not really hating any of them, and then again don't love
any of them either, which is a real credit and not easy to do without
making people lose interest and feel indifferent altogether.

The Bad: I would have liked at some point to have seen a lot more of
the actual robbery. Kris Kristofferson , although supposed to be
playing a hardened ex-detective, still comes off a little too wooden. I
also, personally anyway, can't stand Treat Williams, who is a B-movie
guy at best.

Like my reviews? Hate them? Questions, comments, or have a DVD you want
reviewed? Feel free to send an e-mail to: subiminal.lithium@gmail.com
<|_=00=_|>
Quite a good little crime drama with a snowy backdrop and isolation as
an insistent threat. The tension is woven with the back stories of
those involved all leading to an inevitable confrontation and a
predictable solution.

Getting there is the fun and this movie delivers enough action and
suspense to keep one's interest and it has a semi-stylish tone that is
better in the action department then in the character's and their
development. The acting ranges from the intense too intensely wooden.
Eric Bana is engaging in an aloof amalgamation of insanity and
infantile. The other male lead (Charlie Hunnam) barely registers even
though he is given the most screen time.

There is very little invested in the female Deputy and her Sheriff Dad,
and the conflicted Parents. Some effort is made in the end to
strengthen these complex situations but it is really rushed and rather
anti-climactic. 

It is best when things are on the move and the hunt is on and at worst
in the convoluted love story in the middle. Overall it is a good
thriller that can be enjoyed for its moving parts, despite the stale
and stoic presentation of psychological situations that are presented
in such shallowness as to be distracting.
<|_=00=_|>
DEADFALL is about a criminal brother and sister duo Addison and Liza
(Eric Bana, Olivia Wilde) who separate in freezing blizzard conditions
after their car hits a deer and kills their driver. Addison begins a
killing spree which police are soon on the scene warning nearby
residents that he is on the loose. 

Liza meanwhile is on the verge of freezing to death when she is picked
up by Jay (Charlie Hunnam), a man just released from prison who was
planning on visiting his folks for thanksgiving (Kris Kristofferson and
Sissy Spacek). What this all leads up to is a relationship blossoming
between Jay and Liza and Addison finding out information about his
sisters whereabouts and holding Jay's parent hostage in the family
home. 

This final 20 minute segment is where the main actors shine: Bana is
incredibly disturbing as the villain taking control of the situation;
Wilde displays the perfect blend of manipulation, ambiguity and in the
end, good heartedness; Kristofferson honestly looked comatomsed the
entire film and Spacek had an unsettling calmness about her despite
having a gun pointed at her head for half of her performance. The
awfully cute and decent Kate Mara is also prominently featured as a
young female cop assisting into the investigation, and her asshole
sergeant father is played by Treat Williams. Recommended, a decent
movie with plenty of thrills and enjoyable story.
<|_=00=_|>
Perhaps the reason this film is not meeting with a better reception has
to do with our current situation of senseless killings that are
happening throughout the nation. Had t been placed in the theaters at a
different time it might have been better appreciated. The script by
Zach Dean is tight and multifaceted in meanings, the direction by
Stefan Ruzowitzky keeps us in suspense until the final frame, and the
cast of actors is unusually fine. It is a fine little film and deserves
more attention.

The title DEADFALL is translated by the dictionary as 'A trap for large
animals in which a heavy weight is arranged to fall on and kill or
disable the prey.' How that title applies to his story is one of the
subtle strong points in this dissection of three dysfunctional
families. Siblings Addison (Eric Bana) and Liza (Olivia Wilde) are on
the run from a casino heist gone wrong. When a car accident leaves
their wheel man and a state trooper dead, they split up and make a run
for the Canadian border in the worst of circumstances - a near whiteout
blizzard. While Addison heads cross-country, killing everyone who
crosses his path or who could provide transportation possibilities,
Liza is picked up by ex-boxer Jay (Charlie Hunnam) who has just been
released from prison for fixing a boxing match and is en-route for a
Thanksgiving homecoming with his parents, June (Sissy Spacek) and
retired sheriff Chet (Kris Kristofferson). Following Addison's wake of
killings the sheriff (Treat Williams) loses many of his men and
ridicules his new deputy daughter (Kate Mara). The story all come
together at the Thanksgiving dinner at June and Chet's place - where
the three families' ties are strained to the breaking point. It's there
the siblings are reunited in a terse and thrilling showdown that pushes
the bonds of family to the limit.

The freezing cold of the blizzard backdrop is juts right for the
tension that pervades this story. The original musical score by Marco
Beltrami underlines all the facets of this tale. While every one in the
cast is excellent, it is Eric Bana that pulls of a very well written
role in a manner that despite his actions he never loses our empathy. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
Haven't seen a crime thriller this good in ages, with such fast moving
pace but excellent character development at the same time.

The screenplay is exciting and observant of human psychology. The
acting is superb, and I guess the directing had a lot going for it too.
Like the perfect storm,this just all came together and did a job of
stirring me up good.

The tension built up from the start with Addison and what we learn
about him and his coach. The relationship between the sheriff and his
daughter, and the how the men treated her, and her stoic dealing with
it...wow, I could not have handled it.

The relationship between the siblings was ambiguous but inspiring at
the same time. The relationship in the family between the spouses and
the son was written with such deft strokes which said so much. 

The actors were fabulous. Especially at the dinner table at the climax
of the story. The mother, Sissy Spacek, had such easy going wisdom
about her but exploded with outraged indignation when pushed beyond the
limit.

Loved the way the brother got the "L" word out of the protagonist in
the climactic denouement. And it left you in the end wondering how the
story would go on with our antiheroes.

One of those screenplays where you just fall in love with the bad guy
and it just kills you to know he is fated, and that he has written his
own tragedy as well as having been written by it. 

Look forward to more of Zach Dean's screenplays.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie I saw at the New Hampshire Film Festival in Portsmouth, NH
and it was my favorite of the weekend. The writing was excellent and
Bana gave yet another great performance as a violent man who was crazy
and funny and charming and human. Writer Zach Dean combined the
Western, crime, thriller, sports and family genres to tell a story
about three dysfunctional families that are brought together by the
trauma of childhood abuse. I knew where the story was going and yet in
the end Dean was able to surprise me with how he got there. He did a
masterful job pulling together his threads in a way that reminded me of
Paul Haggis's work in Crash. Dean's story set in the modern West even
included an Indian chief in what was one of my favorite scenes.
Afterwards I reflected on Bana's work and wondered if he will ever
reach the pinnacle of achievement we saw in the fantastic Australian
film Chopper. That role allowed Bana to use all of his gifts in a way
that I will never forget and which makes him for me one of the greatest
actors working today.
<|_=00=_|>
*** Big spoilers here so watch out ***

This was one bizarre animal of a movie. The interaction between the
universally misogynistic police men and the conspicuously more
highly-evolved poor persecuted police woman just stank the whole movie
up and never ceased to blow my mind. I don't know if it was a feminist
agenda in play or just diabolically poor writing but there was an
overarching anti-male sentiment running throughout the police element
of the story. It was completely unnecessary, utterly misplaced, and
served only to bizarrely detract from the central story. If they wanted
to tell the tale of the poor downtrodden policewoman VS evil
Neanderthal men, they should have gone ahead and made that movie, but
to try and shoe-horn all of this into another movie is a hell of an
amateur move, and just an all-round bad idea.

Some examples I that stood out:

- the police woman not being included in the hunt for the criminals,
despite the fact the sheriff is her father.

- the school yard menstruation put-down in front of her colleagues by
HER OWN FATHER AND SUPERIOR. Oh seriously???? I never use caps normally
by the way but this scene did offend mine eyes, ears and very soul.

- the grabbing of her walkie-talkie and throwing it in the snow so she
can't use it, thus avoiding "getting them in trouble"(tried
paraphrasing with square brackets but IMDb does not allow). Sheeeeeesh. 

- the pushing her over in the snow and stealing her snow mobile. Bwa ha
ha ha ha ha ha - please make it stop somebody, please.

- inappropriate public reprimand from father after pursuing criminal,
claiming that apparently people "start dying" when she gets involved -
didn't even make any kind of sense, but I was numb to the poor writing
by this stage.

This offensively ham-fisted anti-male pantomime GARBAGE absolutely
slaughtered this film for me. If you're female and wonder what the big
deal is, then I beg you please just try to take a couple of minutes to
imagine a similar scenario with the sexes reversed. Honestly please
try, and see how you feel about it.

This kind of anti-male sentiment has been poisoning Hollywood scripts
for so long now but rarely is it this ineptly close to the surface or
in such abundance.

Other non-sexist howlers in this:

- ex-cop abandoning his wife alone in the middle of nowhere when he's
literally just been informed that there are very dangerous criminals
prowling the vicinity.

- The main male character not questioning why his hitchhiker seems to
have been completely oblivious to the police roadblock he literally
just drove through and which she must have just passed or at the very
least come from.

- The female fugitive seems to be in the grip of hypothermia while the
male fugitive shows absolutely no signs of it. Bearing in mind how far
she's got from the crash scene they can't be very far apart and he was
no better dressed, so this made little sense.

- the male fugitive just happening upon a child molestation scenario
providing him with the perfect provocation to murder the male
cabin-owner and hide out in the cabin for a while. Given his childhood
molestation experience this was a hell of a convenient coincidence.

- the liberated little girl's sudden clairvoyant instruction to the
male fugitive to "leave your sister alone"(tried paraphrasing with
square brackets but IMDb does not allow). Embarrassingly corny and
misplaced.

- woman's calmness after being taken hostage by a *known* dangerous
criminal. They try to justify this but it still doesn't fly one bit in
my book.

- woman who's literally just been taken hostage demanding that the
hostage-taker opens a window after he lights a cigarette. Perhaps
that'd fly in a comedy, but not real life, and not this kind of drama.

- ESP on the part of the female fugitive when she suddenly states that
she knows Jay is on the run.

- Jay's Buddha-esque compassion in instantly and completely overlooking
the fact that the hitchhiking girl knowingly misled and used him to
rendez-vous with her criminal brother at his parents' house, thus
endangering all of their lives and directly resulting in the shooting
of 2 apparent family friends. There are no words.

- girl slaughtering her own brother(who saved her from hell as a child
remember), for the sake of a guy she met yesterday and cynically tried
to use as part of a criminal scheme. OOOOOOOOOHHHHHHH
CCCCCCCCCCCCCCMMMMMMOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOONNNNNN.

An altogether aggravating affair, especially as I rate Eric Bana and
think he and the other leads did a good acting job. The basic idea is a
sound one, there were some truly well-shot scenes, and the whole thing
had quite a distinct style to it. Sadly though this was contaminated
beyond redemption with all the anti-male cartoon nonsense. It really
crossed a line.

As an aside, it breaks my heart to see Treat Williams reduced to this
slurry - he was such a powerful actor back in the day. What a crying
shame.

So I guess if you're a raging man-hater maybe this will rock your boat
or at least provide some ammunition. To men though(especially
policemen) and to rational women(and yes I believe plenty of women
would baulk at the same stuff mentioned above), definitely avoid this
bizarre manifesto at all costs.

Apologies for all the caps but words escaped me and anger got the
better of me I'm afraid. I'm off to burn my DVD player and have a lie
down.
<|_=00=_|>
Deadfall ¬ñ CATCH IT (B) 

Siblings Addison (Eric Bana) and Liza (Olivia Wilde) are on the run
from a casino heist gone wrong. When a car accident leaves their wheel
man and a state trooper dead, they split up and make a run for the
Canadian border in the worst of circumstances, a near whiteout
blizzard. While Addison heads cross-country, creating mayhem in his
wake, Liza is picked up by ex-boxer Jay (Charlie Hunnam), en-route for
a Thanksgiving homecoming with his parents, June (Sissy Spacek) and
retired sheriff Chet (Kris Kristofferson). It's there the siblings are
reunited in a terse and thrilling showdown that pushes the bonds of
family to the limit.

Eric Bana did his job nicely, watching him doing incest
jealous/obsesses/protective brother/lover was indeed bizarre. Olivia
Wilde is stunningly gorgeous and at times creepy too. Charlie Hunnam is
fun to watch, he is smart and never looks bad in what he does. Kate
Mara is fine as always. Sissy Spacek and Kris Krsitoppher are good.

In the end, there is nothing much to expect from a movie besides that
it's a B class thriller with gorgeous faces. I found movie quite
entertaining, it may not have the most lovable characters but they sure
are pretty. Good Time pass.
<|_=00=_|>
"It's a good sign when you feel a little bad." Brother and sister
Addison (Bana) and Liza (Wilde) have just robbed a casino and are
making their getaway when they get into an accident. Jay (Hunnam) is
fresh out of jail and is looking for answers as to why he took the
fall. When all their paths cross things turn for the worse. This is a
movie I was looking forward too. The cast had me interested right away.
The movie started off fast and never really slowed down. It is a movie
where you seem to be one step ahead of what is going on though and that
kind of hurts the overall enjoyment. When you can predict 90% of what
is going to happen before it does you start to lose interest, at least
I do. I did like the movie and I would recommend it but don't expect a
lot of twists. The movie was good and entertaining though and the cast
was great but a few twists could have made it better. Overall, an
enjoyable movie that could have been better if it wasn't so
predictable. I give it a B.
