
At first glance, Albert Nobbs could seem to be another dry and stuffy
period piece that would follow in the tradition and be mostly about the
acting. However once you delve into it, the film ends up being a
surprisingly dense character drama focused around one troubled,
courageous woman whose loneliness gets the better of her years of
living in secrecy. The titular waiter is a delicate, frail woman
masquerading as a man and actress Glenn Close delves into the role with
such complete detail that she truly does disappear.

I'm always skeptical of performances that are claimed to be "fully
unrecognizable" and at first I must admit that it just felt like Close
playing a man, but as the film continued I slowly lost sight of my
cynicism and when a later scene portrays Nobbs wearing a dress for the
first time I was blown away at the fact that I was seeing this woman be
a real woman for the first time. I was amazed at how absorbed Close was
in the role, I genuinely forgot all about this woman playing a
character and just believed the character's facade, as well as Close's.
Close has gotten attention for the role as a potential Oscar vehicle
and some have lashed back against that due to the performance being
quite restrained, but I admire her delicacy in taking on the role. This
is a woman who spent her entire life trying to blend in and be unseen,
and Close's ability to be this fly on the wall creature is remarkable.

I was glad that there weren't any hysterics on her part and when the
few scenes came where, in isolation, she broke down I was devastated by
this woman fearing for her life to unravel. It's such a delicate and
entirely human performance, and as far as I'm concerned one of the best
of Close's very strong career. The central narrative revolves around
Nobbs' desire to woo a young maid named Helen (played with an Irish
tilt by the up-and-coming Australian Mia Wasikowska, again shining) to
leave their life of servitude and open up a tobacco shop together.
Throughout the film I was bothered by this belief that Nobbs was
supposed to be in love with Helen and that's why she wanted to open the
shop with her, but as the film reached it's final conclusion I came to
the realization that it had nothing to do with love.

Throughout her life Nobbs had put in all of her effort to having no one
notice her that when she's introduced to a similar woman masquerading
as a man (played by the strong and unbelievably convincing Janet
McTeer) who has a happy life married to a woman, Nobbs realizes the
potential that maybe she doesn't have to live her life alone. It's not
about loving Helen at all, it's just about not wanting to be alone
anymore and once that became apparent to me the film became quite
devastating. Nobbs trapped herself in this prison and Close plays it
with such restrained heartache that it truly hit a level with me. Even
in writing this I am realizing that the film had a much stronger impact
on me than I had previously thought. This is a devastating story of a
woman trapped in circumstances of her own making, portrayed with such
genuine believability by Close that I forgot I was watching an actress
pretend to be a man but instead just saw Nobbs.

There's a line where McTeer's character asks Nobbs what her name is and
she responds, "Albert". Then McTeer repeats the question, clearly
asking for her birthname instead of the one she is hiding behind and
Nobbs again responds, "Albert". At the time I rolled my eyes at the
exchange, but now that the whole film has settled with me it speaks so
much to this trapped, wounded soul who was so lost in herself that she
couldn't escape her own prison, let alone the one that she had built
for Nobbs. I found Albert Nobbs to be quite the moving, hushed
character piece led by a wrenching performance by Close and backed up
by several other strong performances from McTeer, Wasikowska and a
grimy Aaron Johnson.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at the Mill Valley Film Festival Opening last night and
I thought it was an amazing piece. Luckily I didn't have an
preconceived notions about the film. I hadn't heard anything about it
which for me is always the best way to go into a film. I always set
high standards for any film that Glen Close is a part of and she
definitely met that expectation and then some.

Visually, Albert Nobbs had a fairy tale feel to it. I would say it was
an atypical film without political agenda. A simple but highly
intelligent story full of life and character detail. I would like to
see this again. I have a feeling that in a second screening I would see
so many new things that are so subtle in the first viewing. 

Glen Close transformed completely. It was dazzling to watch. I was
captivated by her face and her mannerisms. I would highly recommend
this film to friends. A must see!
<|_=00=_|>
Janet McTeer is absolutely transcendent in ALBERT NOBBS.

The waves of emotion which she wraps into Hubert Page are a wonder to
behold. Her performance is not one of those 'knock me over with a
feather' performances; it's more like a performance that settles in the
bottom of your heart and stays there well after the movie ends. It
keeps you up at night, and tugs at you for days afterward.

The story itself is more layered than it appears to be. Glenn Close has
brought to the screen a very private yet very emotional character. Such
a character is difficult to portray -- and the 'talking to one's self
scenes' were a bit annoying, as all such scenes are.

In the end, however, this is a movie well worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>
Glenn Close's portrayal of the title character was excellent! She was
at her best in this picture. Perhaps the reason why other people who
saw the movie felt that the movie is draggy and her portrayal is so-so
was because there wasn't any hysteria in it. There wasn't any
grandstanding scene. There wasn't a shouting match. No loud
confrontations. No slapping and hair-pulling scenes. It's a quiet movie
so unlike of Close's other known portrayals. 

But one can't simply ignore the greatness she has shown in her eyes.
You can feel the sadness, the pain, the fears and the hope in her eyes.
It was a quiet, restrained performance that is quite haunting that
stays in your mind even after watching it. And that's what happened to
me. Hours after watching it, the scenes and her story still lingers in
my mind. 

Everyone in the movie gave worthy performances.... Mia Wasikowska,
Aaron Johnson, Pauline Collins, Brendan Gleeson, Jonathan Rhys Myers
(even though he was in 3-4 scenes only) and most especially, Janet
McTeer. 

McTeer's characterization was superb. Her body built helped a lot in
her portrayal of Hubert Page. But i don't believe that she upstaged
Close's here. Her character was quite different from the character that
Glenn Close was portraying. And both did quite well in giving justice
to the roles they played in the movie. 

The beach scene was excellent... quiet, yet conveys so much feelings... 

How i wish that those who've seen the movie and saw it differently will
watch it again and see the story from Albert Nobbs' point of view. See
the expressions in 'his' eyes and feel the tragedy of the life 'he' has
gone through. 

Glenn Close really deserves to win the Oscar's Best Actress plum with
this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Albert Nobbs is a labor of love. Glenn Close, who stars in the titular
role, has been connected with this material for nearly 20 years,
playing the same role on stage in 1982. For years she tried to get the
production to the big screen, and after a long wait her efforts have
put forth a brilliant film. Directed by Rodrigo Garcia (In Treatment),
this film tells the story of Albert, an Irish waiter at a hotel. The
trouble is she has been portraying herself as a man for 30 years. She
has become encased in her mindset of Albert Nobbs that she doesn't know
her true self anymore. She must do whatever it takes to get by, even if
it means keeping her secret to the grave.

She befriends a local painter, Hubert Page (Janet McTeer), only Hubert
isn't all that he says he is either. With Hubert's friendship, Albert
sees that what he needs is a wife. He attempts to court another maid at
the hotel, Helen (by Mia Wasikowska), only she has taken a shine to Joe
(Aaron Johnson), the new handyman. It's sometimes painful to see the
lengths that Albert goes to for Helen, but Albert it so pure in his
thinking and kind of heart that we want him to get the girl no matter
what.

What makes Albert Nobbs so special is Close's performance. Close truly
fits the part. There is something in her eyes that makes you really
believe that the woman in Albert is only what he keeps hidden under his
clothes. All the rest is a man. Close makes us believe that Albert sees
himself as a man only just a little different. We see a fragile man who
will stop at nothing to get what he wants, even if it means sucking up
to the harsh and vulgar members of high society.

The supporting cast around Close is fantastic as well. McTeer really
shines as Albert's only true friend. I would look for both Close and
McTeer to be in contention come this Oscar night. Wasikowska and
Johnson look great for their respective parts, playing them with
honesty. Another accent to the cast is Brendan Gleeson as the local
doctor. He adds a touch of sensibility to the entitled of the day. He
likes a good, stiff drink (or three) and finds himself comfortable in
the company of those considered lower than him.

Gleeson's character brings up a great quality to the film. I am
astonished at how much of a commentary of 19th century life is put into
the film. I would say most of the first act is setting up the world
they live in and periodic references and characters enter the second
and third acts to remind us of the time period this story is taking
place. Albert Nobbs is in fact a reflection of what it was like to live
back then. In order to make a decent living one had to be a man,
otherwise find someone to live off of.

It's a heartbreaking story that will really hit home. Albert on the
surface is a simple man, but underneath lies a wealth of feeling,
confusion, and love. The film ends with the beautiful song "Lay Your
Head Down" with lyrics by Close herself, music by Brian Byrne, and sung
by Sinead O'Connor. It reminded me of "Into the West" by Annie Lennox,
the Oscar winning song from Lord of the Rings: Return of the King. This
song from Albert is somber, sweet, and plays like a lullaby. I think
it's safe to say that is exactly what it is; a lullaby for Albert, a
character whose life has been so strenuous and tiresome.

The more I think about it the more I love this film. Great
performances, great characters, and a perfect time period to be placed
in. The song is the icing on the cake (and probably has the best shot
at winning come Oscar night). It looks like Meryl Streep is all but a
lock for Best Actress, but we shall see what happens. Who knows, maybe
Albert will gain momentum coming down the homestretch. I hope it does.
<|_=00=_|>
It was the best of times, it was the worst of times(apologies to
Dickens) in this Irish drama of the affluent and the working class at
the turn of he century. Glenn Close is a towering figure throughout as
Albert Nobbs, a butler at an upscale hotel in Dublin. Close and Mia
Wasikowska are both magnificent in this saga of gender identity. Nobbs
is dressed as a man in order to work and survive in a world better
suited to being a male and she is searching for who and what she should
be. Her dream of opening a shop with a woman she has fallen in love
with, well played by Wasikowska is deeply affecting. 

Janet McTeer and Brendan Gleeson round out a perfect ensemble cast as
they are two of the best actors working today. Gleeson brings some
comic relief as the resident doctor and McTeer gives a sympathetic ear
and emotional support to Close.

Sinead O'Connor sings the final song as the credits roll. The story is
a sad one but due to the great cast it is a movie worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen director Rodrigo Garcia's excellent 'Woman and Child' at
last year's Spirit Award screenings, I was surprised to see him
tackling a period piece, 'Albert Nobbs', which is based on a 1927
novella by the Irish novelist, George Moore, and later turned into a
stage production in 1982, starring Glenn Close, who now again tackles
the title role, this time playing the part decidedly as a middle-aged
character. Garcia is one of today's leading directors as he has a
reputation for being sensitive to the needs of women and extremely
competent in directing them.

'Albert Nobbs' is set in the late nineteenth century in Dublin and
focuses on Glenn Close as Albert, a woman who works as a servant at the
Morrison Hotel and who's been pretending to be a man since the age of
14. When Mrs. Baker, the pretentious proprietress of the hotel
(brilliantly played by Pauline Collins, known for her role in the famed
TV series, 'Upstairs, Downstairs'), orders Albert to put up house
painter Hubert Page (played by a fantastic Janet McTeer), for the night
in her room, Albert can no longer hide her disguise when she's
compelled to strip off her corset due to an infestation of fleas inside
her clothes. It looks like Page is going to end up blackmailing Albert
but in a great plot twist, she reveals that she's a woman too, by
revealing her pendulous breasts.

Albert, who is extremely reserved, is shocked at Page's revelation but
nonetheless is impressed how Page conducts herself as a man. While
Albert is deathly afraid of being found out, Page is self-assured and
cocky. She even is legally married to a woman and they have a loving
relationship (Albert seeks to learn if they're on intimate terms, but
Page refuses to tell).

Albert dreams of opening up a tobacco shop and has been hoarding her
money underneath a floorboard in her room. With Hubert as a model,
Albert becomes a infatuated with Helen, a very pretty, young servant
girl. While Mia Wasikowska practically sleep-walked through her recent
role as 'Jane Eyre', here director Garcia turns her into a powerhouse
of vacillating feelings and emotions. Soon, Mrs. Baker hires the young
'bad boy' boiler repairman, Joe, and Helen falls for him hook, line and
sinker.

There are actually two antagonists in 'Albert Nobbs'. First is the
Victorian society itself, that forces women such as Albert and Hubert
to deny their true selves, in order to survive. It was all about
economics, as women were paid very little or weren't allowed to work at
all. Often, they were brutalized by alcoholic husbands and some (or
should I say, a few) chose to run away and hide their identities,
acting as men. The epitome of those men who put women in such a
position, is the ne'er-do-well, Joe, who can't control his anger and
refuses to accept the idea that he has a responsibility to act as a
caring father.

While 'Nobbs' is often sad, director Garcia wisely inserts some
humorous scenes to balance the tragedy. There's a great scene where
Albert and Hubert take a stroll on the beach, dressed as women. Ever so
briefly, Albert actually gets to experience feelings of joy, as she
runs down the shore for the first in women's clothes. They seem to
revel in their awkwardness but Albert soon trips and falls. The joy is
short-lived and we immediately cut back to the hotel, where Albert must
re-assume his role as the stiff-necked servant.

Tragedy is unavoidable when a typhoid epidemic claims the life of
Hubert's wife, Kathleen. And Joe, in his anger, knocks Albert against a
wall, after the two tussle for Helen's affection. The blow against the
wall is the coup de grace, as Albert does not survive.

Garcia also depicts the brutal class differences in the late nineteenth
century. The guests at the hotel are for the most part quite arrogant
and treat the servants as inferiors. Not everybody back then was unkind
though. Dr. Holloran orders Mrs. Baker not to throw Helen out on the
streets after she becomes pregnant.

'Albert Nobbs' ends on a bittersweet note. Dr. Holloran bemoans
Albert's fate when he discovers that she's a woman on her deathbed. But
Hubert plays the role of the redeeming angel. He learns from Helen that
soon child welfare officials will come for the baby and Mrs. Baker will
indeed throw her out on the streets. But Hubert assures her that it
won't happenthat soon she will take Helen as a wife and protect her
and the baby from any harm.

There has been some criticism that the Albert character is
underdeveloped and needs more of a back story. One critic writes:
"Nobbs is so emotionally stunted by the very act of living as to almost
cease to exist." There may be some truth in that opinion but by the
same token, we do learn about Albert's childhood and how she came to
adopt her role as a man. You can probably appreciate Albert's character
more if you place it in contrast to Hubert. They should be looked as a
team, reminiscent of 'Laurel and Hardy', sans the comedy. Albert's
demeanor is both dour and precise; he's a bit of a Chaplinesque
character, and although her pursuit of Helen is naïve, it's quite
heartfelt. Hubert is always comfortable in her own skin, and is much
more confident than Albert. In a sense, Albert lives on in Hubert, who
must be seen as a great 'protector' of all women.

'Albert Nobbs' is a very impressive film with a top-notch cast. Close
and McTeer work wonders in difficult roles and are supported by equally
impressive supporting players. The cinematography evokes the bygone era
of turn-of-the-century Dublin with director Garcia most ably conveying
what it was like living in such a repressed atmosphere. Maybe that's
why James Joyce eventually left Dublin and never came back.
<|_=00=_|>
When men dress up as women in the movies, it is almost always in a
comedy or farce; think Some Like It Hot (1959), The Rocky Horror
Picture Show (1975), and Tootsie (1982). However, when the situation is
reversed and the film concerns women dressing up as men, the movie is
habitually a drama bordering on tragedy: Yentl (1983), Boys Don't Cry
(1999), and Osama (2003). Perhaps men trying to pass themselves off as
women are just funnier and more outlandish, but the reasons behind it
are usually not as urgent. In Albert Nobbs, Albert (Glenn Close) is the
head waiter at an upscale hotel in 19th century Ireland. He appears to
be middle-aged and has been passing himself off as a man since he/she
was 14. His livelihood and future in the midst of immense unemployment
and desperate surroundings depend on maintaining this deception.

I use the pronouns 'he' and 'his' because nothing about Albert is
female except for the some well hidden physiology. Albert is extremely
adept at passing as a man. When he speaks at all, his voice is low. His
hair is short, he is impeccably dressed, his manners are
irreproachable, and he does nothing whatsoever to call any attention to
himself. As any man-servant should be, he is invisible. Working in the
hospitality industry is just a means to end for Albert though. He lives
such a spartan lifestyle because he hoards his money underneath his
floorboard to one day soon purchase a shop and become a respected
tobacconist. He is close; he has identified the vacant shop, has
planned its layout, and can almost feel the escape which will come when
he is his own boss.

Albert knows something is missing in his grand scheme though; he is
lonely. In the beginning, he does not recognize he is missing anything
important until he is forced to share his room one night with a man,
Mr. Hubert Page (Janet McTeer). Through a contrived sequence, Albert is
revealed as a female to Mr. Page and only later on learns Mr. Page is
also a woman. Using what look like camera tricks and perspective shots,
Mr. Page is a towering and bulky workman. He is also married to a
woman. This bit of news tremendously confuses poor Albert. How is it
possible for two women to be married to one another? It is obvious that
Mr. Page and his wife are in a lesbian relationship; however, Albert
would not even know what that word means. Albert comes across as
asexual. There has never been a chance in his life to conceive of
intimacy so all feelings and aspects of that persona just atrophied
away.

Now that Albert's eyes are opened to the fact that there are women out
in the world who are married to each other, he sets his eyes on the
lowly but young and desirable chambermaid Helen (Mia Wasikowska). Helen
knows just how pretty she is and becomes smitten by the newly employed
handyman Joe (Aaron Johnson). Not only is Albert stunted in the
intimacy realm of life, but his social skills are also not as fine
tuned as the younger set who now aware of Albert's infatuation with
Helen, may try to use those feelings for their financial gain.

While the story of Albert Nobbs is on the weaker side and not
particularly engaging, the acting, specifically by Close and McTeer, is
fascinating. There is a scene where Albert and Mr. Page try on some
dresses and take a walk outside. For Albert, this is the first time he
has worn a dress in probably 30 years. The immediate discomfort but
growing acceptance and then utter joy on his face is a wonderful scene
as he experiences some long repressed feelings while ecstatically
running on the beach. McTeer's performance is equal to Close's in every
way. She/he looks 100% like a man dressed up as a woman when he puts on
that dress. The makeup department for this film is spot on, much better
than J. Edgar and The Iron Lady. Even though they did not have to age
the characters as those aforementioned films did, transforming two
women into men so effectively as they do is worth the price of
admission alone.

Director Rodrigo Garcia, who happens to be the son of novelist Gabriel
Garcia Marquez, is becoming known as the go-to filmmaker for involved
and complex stories about women. He also directed Things You Can Tell
Just by Looking at Her (2000), Nine Lives (2005), and Mother and Child
(2010), all recognized as thoughtful films with strong female leads.
Glenn Close co-wrote the screenplay and brought with her a long
experience of understanding Albert since she played him in the 1982
stage production.

I recommend Albert Nobbs to enjoy the performances and to witness the
forceful presences of Glenn Close and Janet McTeer and their convincing
portrayals of the opposite sex. The story is not as compelling as one
would wish for a period piece such as this, but it is nevertheless
overshadowed by the acting.
<|_=00=_|>
Technically, the film Albert Nobbs won't be released in the United
States until late January, and I would think that would disqualify it
as a contender for the upcoming Oscars (although the buzz around says
otherwise, so I don't know how that works) but it would be a real shame
if true because Glenn Close is strictly at her best since Dangerous
Liaisons as Albert Nobbs, a male waiter living a secret life. Janet
McTeer is a bit more hammy as Hubert Page, another woman living life as
a man, and she's not as convincing as Close is as a man, but she still
has her moments, like the way she walks all manly on the beach even
when wearing a dress. Mia Wasikowska also gives a supporting actress
nomination worthy role as sort of what Cécile was to Liaisons. I really
hated the ending of this film and would have preferred something a
little less Remains of the Day and a little more uplifting and hopeful,
so as a film I don't think it is best picture material but Glenn Close
certainly deserves her long overdue Oscar for this stunning
performance.

I do have to wonder how this got an R rating though. There is nothing R
rated in it whatsoever; the only nudity involves two very quick flashes
of breasts only to establish that the characters are actually female,
and other than that, there is no foul language or violence or anything.
The MPPA should reconsider what I believe to be a biased rating that it
came up with based only on the fact that the film hints at lesbianism.
