
I was not expecting something as enjoyable or over the top as last
year's Piranha 3D but I was at least expecting some time killing shark
attack fun. It seems however that they couldn't even pull that off.

The script is horrific and the plot is ho-hum but more importantly,
takes way too long to get going. Every character is dull and hollow and
the stale acting doesn't help. But in all honesty this could be
forgiven had the film actually delivered on what was expected. There's
surprisingly very little in the way of shark carnage. The PG13 rating
means death scenes mostly consist of some flailing in red water. Other
death scenes are almost completely off-screen. I'm not a gore fanatic
but when the film has nothing else going for it, this could have easily
saved it to a degree. They don't even capitalize on the 3D. There were
a few genuinely creepy moments in the film that actually made me want
to cover my eyes (something I haven't wanted to do in over 15 years)but
these are so few and far between. I longed for more of these but the
film seems to be too interested in silly melodramatic plot. The film
also just takes itself way too seriously to the point where it just
isn't fun to watch... which is all you'd be wanting going into a 3D
horror movie about sharks.

It's a cheap attempt to cash in on the success of 'Piranha 3D' but
without the tongue-in-cheek self-awareness or over the top gory
thrills, there's very little to recommend in 'Shark Night 3D'. It could
have worked as a campy throwback or It could have even worked as a more
serious horror movie because I did feel uneasy at times but it really
doesn't do either any justice.
<|_=00=_|>
My god this movie is horrible, I am quite a fan of shark movies and all
that jazz do I looked forward to this new installment in the genre,
however I must say that this movie is just ridiculous. For these movies
to work I think they need to have some humor thrown in to the mix,
films such as Piranha 3d know what they are and play with it but Shark
Night just takes itself far too seriously and in the end it's just bad
bad bad.

Even Sara Paxton and Chris Zylka, two young actors who I quite enjoy
couldn't save this film. The fact that you barely even see any sharks
is dumb too, basically all you see us fin and that's it, and the scenes
when you do see a shark the special effects are so cheaply done that I
felt like I was having a joke played on me, the special effects are not
much better than the ones that you see in the SyFy TV movies like
Sharktopus, but even those films are better than this garbage.

One scene when a shark literally flies out of the water and attacks a
man who is hanging on to a tree is just ridiculous, these people can't
be really taking it serious I hope. I strongly urge everyone to save
their money and go and rent either The Reef or a SyFy film, anything is
better than this. I hope Sara Paxton is able to recover.
<|_=00=_|>
Seven young and pretty undergraduates head to a secluded lakeside
cottage in Louisiana to take a load off and enjoy a wild and crazy
weekend away. But things take a turn for the worst when a member of the
group is attacked by a shark. Isolated with no cell service and no help
in sight, the group quickly realizes they are on their own, but the
water around them is not safe. 

I wanted Shark Night 3D to be as fun as Piranha 3D was last year.
Despite the PG-13 rating, I held onto a desperate hope that it would
somehow manage to live up to that level of gleeful insanity and
absolutely ridiculous trashiness. I knew deep down it would never be
anywhere near comparable, but everything about the film suggested it
would be an enjoyable ride.

Sadly, this is not the case.

Instead of getting a ridiculous movie about sharks mauling pretty 20-
somethings that embraces the sheer silliness of the very idea, we get a
deadly serious, high-concept slasher film that seems to have no concept
of what fun is. Sure we get the typical horror movie wise ass quips
sprinkled here and there, and some rather intriguing reasoning as to
why the attacks are occurring. But in-between these moments, we get
stilted dialogue, wooden performances, characters with next to no
dimensionality whatsoever, and just about nothing else. Despite it
being 2011, the film feels like it belongs to a different era Â– one
where it has not realized how outrageous and frivolous the genre has
become. It offers nothing new by way of ideas or story, and somehow
thinks an ode to Jaws at the beginning of the film is appropriate. I
initially wanted to criticize Shark Night for cribbing from Piranha.
But in watching the film, it is obvious they learned absolutely nothing
from Alexandre Aja and his crew. 

But while the bad story and worse acting are to be expected, what is
really disappointing is just how much of a grand tease the whole movie
is. The rating may be a contributing factor, but the only thing it
seems to cut out is gratuitous nudity. The T and A is still plentiful,
and the film is actually surprisingly graphic in some instances. But
the majority of deaths, the best part of any slasher film, are merely
hinted at. We see characters get pulled underwater, and just when you
think we will see their grisly end, the film inexplicably cuts to the
next scene. Hell, we do not even get the obligatory shot confirming
that a character did indeed die. How do we know they did not manage to
fight off the shark and survive to fight another day? And since there
are about ten people in the entire cast, most of which meet an untimely
end, that is a whole lot of teasing and not a lot of pay off. I can
only think of one that is explicitly shown, and even that seemed like
it was pushing it based on what happens during the rest of the film. It
is all very arbitrary, but it seems like a rather obscene faux pas on
the part of the filmmakers. 

Remember how comically bad and exaggerated the piranha looked in
Piranha 3D? Somehow, the sharks in Shark Night 3D look even worse.
There is nothing realistic about them. They look more cartoonish than
anything, standing out as not even attempting to look like they belong
in any of the scenes. They make memories of the shark from Jaws appear
more frighteningly authentic than I thought possible. But this is only
when the sharks are swimming around underwater, looking menacing and
hungry . When they actually interact with the characters, they look
absolutely absurd and preposterous. A shot involving a shark leaping
out of the water to attack one of the characters as he zips by on a
jet-ski looks even worse than those ludicrously awful effects you may
have seen from Shark Attack 3: Megalodon. They may actually qualify for
some of the worst effects in the past decade. Surely the special
effects team realized they were working on an actual movie with a
budget, and not some straight-to-DVD Asylum knockoff. So what could
possibly be there excuse for such a terrible job? 

I think the only thing I remotely enjoyed was how impressive the
underwater shots looked in 3D. They were clearly shot with the format
in mind, and look absolutely stunning even with a fake shark in the
background. They frequently took me entirely out of the film, as they
look like they belong in a significantly better project. The shots are
just so tranquil and so beautiful that they may make you forget what an
awful movie you are sitting through. With the exception of an over-the-
top explosion, this is just about the only thing that sizzles in 3D.
There are no other elements that even attempt to take advantage of the
format.

When I tell you that Shark Night 3D is one of the worst films of the
year, with next to no redeeming qualities, you better believe I am not
lying. I was hoping it would be somewhat fun, but instead it was one of
the most annoying and agonizing films I have ever put myself through.
The film is too serious to be enjoyable, and fails to deliver in almost
every respect. The filmmakers and cast should be ashamed of themselves.
When the credits rolled, I could not leave the theatre fast enough
because I was ashamed to have actually watched it. Apparently there is
a rap music video after the credits conclude, featuring the entire
cast. Somehow, I still do not think this could make up for the travesty
you have to put yourself through to get to it. 

3/10.

(An extended review also appeared on http://www.geekspeakmagazine.com).
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the sheer diversity in species that inhabit this world,
Hollywood seems to have an obsession with making movies about hungry,
killer sharks. Ever since Jaws debuted nearly 40 years ago, the flood
gates for shark movies seemed to have been permanently forced open,
allowing countless films to be made, most of which fail to come even
close to Spielberg's classic. Today the latest shark disaster, Shark
Night, hits the screens in all of its gore filled glory.

For those who haven't seen the overplayed trailer, Shark Night revolves
around a group of Jersey Shore like teenagers taking a vacation out to
an island mansion for a weekend getaway from their college studies.
What starts out as a fun filled trip soon turns into chaos as Malik
(Sinqua Walls) has a rough encounter with a bull shark. However this
first attack is only a mild beginning as the sharks become more
aggressive and fear begins to take its toll on the teenagers.

I'm going to come right out and say it, this movie is essentially Jaw
meeting a teenage slasher film. Unlike Jaws, Shark night has traded
plot for gore filled, teenager devouring, and CGI shark action. The
acting of the victims is pretty weak for the most part, essentially
focusing on incredibly shallow characters that have no morals and
eventually evolved into hyperventilating chickens, with the exception
of a few characters willing to tread the waters. Despite their best
intentions, a majority of the scenes in this movie amounted to nothing
more than a predictable sequence of chases, pointless swimming, and
eventually scream filled death that is classic of a Scy-Fy original
movie.

Although the plot had a little more character than what I had gotten
from the trailers, it still wasn't enough to save the movie. One major
weakness to the plot was how predictable the series of events was. From
the moment we were introduced to the characters, I was able to predict
who was going to die, and essentially how each one was going to meet
their end, that is how each one was going to get eaten. You may be
asking, "Well was the explanation for why the sharks were there in the
first place good?" The answer to that question is no. In fact I believe
the explanation to the sharks was one of the worst plot twists I have
ever seen, more laughable than respectable. Again I wasn't expecting
much of a plot, but to throw in such a twist was just pathetic to me.

Now there are some positive aspects to this movie, but I'll admit now
that they are incredibly shallow positives. One positive is that the
CGI work, albeit not the even close to being the greatest captures the
shark movement quite well. The facts that the characters spout out
about the sharks are also accurate as well and can teach the audience a
few things about sharks, if they actually care. The soundtrack for this
film had some catchy beats that are sure to please most modern
audiences today, mainly fans of rap and hip-hop. Fans of blood will
also be happy with this film as the bayou waters become stained in red
by the various attacks. Finally, although the acting is weak, both male
and female audience members will be happy with the eye candy most of
the cast provides, as they parade around in their bikinis bathing
suits. Yeah I told you these positives were pretty shallow.

To wrap this review up, Shark Night is a movie meant to kill time and
provide some very cheap entertainment. Fans of constant shark attack
violence will not be disappointed by this generic film, but those
looking for a seemingly decent plot and suspense filled survival should
avoid this film at all costs. Shark attack films may be getting old,
but surely the modern movie industry can do better than this. Overall I
give Shark Night, which should not be seen in 3D, a 2.0-2.5, and
recommend waiting for it to come out on the Scy-Fy channel. As always
provide me with some feedback and let me know your opinions and
criticism for becoming a better writer.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was predictable and not worth $7.50! It never even showed
the shark actually killing anyone! It showed blood and limbs, but no
real action.

Piranha 3D was much better!! In this movie, you could always predict
who the bad guy was and exactly what was going to happen next. They
never really explained where the sharks came from....left some
unanswered questions. Katherine McPhee from American Idol did a pretty
good job, though! I didn't see it in 3D, but i honestly don't think it
would be any better! I hope they don't make a sequel!! Save your money
for the remake of The Thing coming out soon!
<|_=00=_|>
I never wrote a review until now, but "Shark Night 3D" inspired me to
do so.

Let me tell you something, up until the third act, the film starts out
pretty decent. Like "Piranha 3D", which it tries to be, it opens up
with someone getting killed, then opens up to an upbeat tune. It starts
out funny, with Sara Paxton, Dustin Milligan, Katherine McPhee (though
I liked her better in "The House Bunny"), and Chris Zylka (soon to be
seen in "The Amazing Spider-Man" as Flash Thompson) handing in
charismatic performances.

The second act comes where the comedy takes a nosedive for the horror
to come around. Aside from a nicely acted monologue from Paxton where
her character recounts a life-affecting tragedy, director David R.
Ellis (who you may remember also directed a similar tongue-in-cheek
film, "Snakes on a Plane"), fumbles the ball when trying to jerk out
tears. Especially when Malik (Sinqua Walls) explodes into a crying fit
about losing his girlfriend (it's not the levels of Tyler Perry's soap
opera casserole, but it doesn't register) before going out to fight a
shark.

*SPOILER ALERT* But what drove the film right into the ground was the
fact that the titular villains - the sharks - were almost background
noise to the real villains: a redneck trio (Donal Logue, Joshua
Leonard, and Chris Carmack) who use the sharks for their reality show.
Believe it or not, this is an original idea, and it could've worked
wonders. However, Ellis envisions the bloodthirsty madmen as... well,
bloodthirsty madmen. It's done in such a borderline cartoonish way,
making them over-the-top, mustache-twirling villains, and Ellis seems
to take delight into pushing the envelope of their insane ways, even to
a point where the main characters become background noise like the
sharks. And hearing why one of the characters went into this profession
is another clichÃ©d revenge ploy. This concoction takes the joy away
from the film, and it becomes bad torture porn.

***END SPOILER***
<|_=00=_|>
This movie stars Sara Paxton and Katherine McPhee among other unknown
people. The stars are not important. What we have here is a PG-13 shark
movie. Something that is so unnatural, I'm surprised that it even
exists.

A group of unlikeable college kids go to a lake and get eaten by sharks
released by crazy hillbillies. Everyone was unlikeable. Joel David
Moore is probably the most likable. He's the most entertaining part of
this movie.

Before I saw this movie I was wondering how they were going to pull off
the death scenes with a PG-13 rating. As expected, there is a lot of
thrashing around in the red coloured water before they are pulled down
under. As long as they don't show the blood pouring it's okay. There
was a scene when a guy lost his arm and except for the blood on his
clothes, there was no bleeding to be seen. I wanted to see some gory
shark kills. There was only one cool kill in the whole movie that would
have been elevated if this was R- rated. 

The 3D in the movie is really only good underwater. Everywhere else
it's not used enough to be worth the extra price. Just don't see it in
3D. 

This movie is completely predictable from start to finish. After 10
minutes, you learn who the primary characters are and you realize that
they will be safe the entire movie. Everyone else except for those
characters are fair game for shark attacks. And that's exactly what
happens. So any suspense that they try to go for is completely useless.
There is no suspense.

The filmmakers took this movie way too seriously. The way to make this
movie is like Piranha 3D. Everything is ridiculous and over the top and
Piranha 3D embraced that. Shark Night didn't have any fun with it's
absurd qualities. Lack of fun is a big problem.

I don't really recommend Shark Night 3D.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie thinking I was going to be bored to death. The
only reason why we saw this was because it was a holiday, hardly
anything was open and we were going stir crazy at home. I've said this
before and I will say this againÂ… I love my gore, I love my violence
and I love my crazy horror movies. Once you put a PG rating on
something I instantly loose my interest.

After all that being said it turned out that I really enjoyed this
movie. Of course I should have known this. For one I LOVE shark movies,
I love teen screams, I love those goofy Sci-Fi channel horror movies
with the cheese graphics. My FiancÃ©e on the other hand did not like
this movie but he never did like these sort of teeny bop things.

This movie is extremely teeny boppy, the lingo, the acting, the drama.
The characters are the same hollow but hot bunch of college kids we see
in all of these types of movies. So I wouldn't go in expecting anything
deep from the characters or script. There was a lot of blood but it was
mostly just someone being pulled under the water and buckets of blood
being shown floating around them. You never actually see any gore or
any attack close up.

The sharks for the most part were silly. I thought it was cool but it
was very unrealistic which sort of killed it for me as well. We kept
thinking the storyline would explain why these sharks were super ninja
sharks. They were ridiculously fast, jumped way too high and there
teeth were almost like metal'ish spikes. Apparently it was only part of
the movie as they never explain anything as to why they were super
sharks.

This movie was not bad IF you like this sort of thing. It wasn't
particularly funny, or deep, the graphics sucked, it was rated PGÂ… but
if like me you love the things I listed in the second paragraph, you
may enjoy this.

Zombiesteak.com - Discover a new world of horror films, designed just
for you.
<|_=00=_|>
About this time last year, I saw a movie called "Piranha." It was a
loose remake of a 1978 cult favorite produced by Roger Corman; the sort
of cheesy B-movie that was so laughably bad that it ascended to being
good fun. That was, of course, the original film, not the remake, which
made it onto my list of the worst movies of 2010. Now, exactly one year
later, my hopes for seeing a good creature-feature on the silver screen
have once again been crushed by what was, essentially, the exact same
picture I saw last fall. The only difference is, now the obnoxious,
hard-to-endure stick-figure characters are being munched on by big fake
CGI sharks instead of big fake CGI piranhas.

But it's really the same scenario. Some brainless young adults are
frolicking about on a big, freshwater lake when all of a sudden, people
are being tossed about and pulled under by unseen attackers. About
thirty minutes in, it's revealed (as if we didn't already know) that
the lake has been infested by sharks. And not just great whites,
either. No, there are hammerheads, tiger sharks, bulls, and even
cookie-cutters. How are all of these oceanic species ending up in a
freshwater lake? Well, the movie gives an explanation, but it's one of
the most outrageously bad plot twists in recent years. And remember,
I'm an aficionado on the junk monster movies that pop up on the SyFy
Channel every weekend. Now, I do not go to a monster movie looking for
great character study or plot logistics. I go there looking for good
old-fashioned, escapist fun. Only when a B-movie becomes so incredibly
empty and devoid of joy do I start nitpicking on things I might
otherwise overlook until after the credits have rolled. But the writing
and directing of "Shark Night" (which by the way, mostly takes place
under a bright sunny sky) is so bland, so unenthusiastic, so
absent-minded that it left me looking at my watch after about twenty
minutes. After the first attack sequence, which starts with a
predictable twist and then becomes a practical shot-for-shot knock-off
from the all-more-effective opening scene in "Jaws," the only thing
that ran through my mind was wondering how long it would be before
Steven Spielberg and Universal decided to pitch out a lawsuit for
copyright infringement.

The whole movie looks and feels very much like it was made directly for
a television release, giving it a sort of schizophrenic, out-of-place
feeling. The fact that the performances are beneath comment does not
help any, since they are on screen far more often than the cartoony,
computer-generated sharks who can twist their necks as flexibly as a
human arm and snarl like lions. In addition, there is the other big
problem that I also had with "Piranha": dopey exploitation. The movie's
far more interested in ogling at the hindquarters and torsos of
partially-naked models-turned-'actors' than it is in developing
plausible attack scenarios or engaging the audience in the way only a
good B-movie can.

Well, at least there weren't any underwater lesbian scenes this time.
No chewed up, sex organs either. Thank heaven.

If the writers had realized that they were making a movie for the big
screen and not for television, "Shark Night" might have proved to be a
solid, lighthearted matinÃ©e. Instead, it fails to recognize what it
ought to have been and pretends to be a grade-A exploitation flick,
falling flat from the beginning. In regards to its 3D: it's thoroughly
unimpressive. Granted, I am not the biggest fan of 3D; I think it's a
cheap, unengaging gimmick. But half the time, you wouldn't know this
were a 3D movie if it weren't for the bulky glasses sitting on your
nose. It's still murky and nothing jumps out from the screen except for
a few pieces from a motorboat and some seaweeds. Not scary, not
entertaining, not even remotely interesting, "Shark Night" was one of
the more unhappy times I've had at the movies.

It seems like the only folks who can still produce good monster flicks
are the Japanese. Their contemporary rubber monsters smashing miniature
Tokyos and Osakas are far more interesting than any monster mayhem I've
seen on the big screen in a long while.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie started out so great, it had that whole "Jaws"-theme going
on, and it really looked like it was going to be a movie that would pay
homage to the classic "Jaws" movies, then it all came crashing down
hard and went downhill.

"Shark Night" is without a doubt one of the stupidest story lines I
have ever seen in a shark movie. The whole plot was just so far-fetched
that it didn't even come off remotely plausible. That whole
"oh-you-hurt-me-years-ago-and-now-it-is-payback-time" plot didn't work
at all! It was ludicrous and it really made the movie bad.

Another thing that the movie had working against it was the darkness.
Most of the movie was shot at night with little or no lighting at all,
and you couldn't really see what was going on at times. That was so
lame. When you sit down to watch movies you don't want to be kept in
the dark and have little chance to see what's going on. Had they kept
the movie in daylight it would have worked so much better.

As for the characters in the movie, well you hardly got to immerse
yourself in any of the characters, aside from Sara (played by Sara
Paxton) and to some extend Dennis (played by Chris Carmack). The rest
of the characters were nothing more than bystanders with shallow
stories to contribute to the plot.

The cast themselves were good, though. The people they had cast for the
various roles actually did good jobs, and that was the main thing that
"Shark Night" had working for it.

Having seen "Shark Night" now I feel very disappointed and cheated out
of my time, because this movie was disappointing on so many levels. It
is only once in awhile that there is a really nice shark movie to hit
the market, "Shark Night" however, wasn't one of them.

And the ending of the movie, are you kidding me? Come on! I am not
going to spoil it here by revealing it, but wow, that was an ending you
saw coming a mile away, and it was just so anti-climatic.
