
A hilarious movie written for Paul Rudd: what more could we want? 

Rudd plays Ned, a stoner who has frizzled his neurons to the point that
he has lost any ability to detect or dish out B.S. The poster child for
what it means to be ingenuous, Ned is a trusting, playful, adorable
stray puppy who isn't quite housebroken. So you-know-what hits the fan
when his three sisters serially take him in after his release from
jail. He's nothing but tsuris. It's no wonder that his most enduring
relationship is with his dog, Willie Nelson.

Thanks to Rudd's everyman persona and the genial obliviousness he
brings to Ned, you can't help but feel empathy. As with a suspense film
where the audience knows what's going to happen but the characters are
still in the dark, you want to yell out to warn Ned before he screws up
again. His perfect comic timing and the made-to-order script make sure
you get the most laughs from his predicament. Luckily, there's more to
him than just bad luck. He's also an endearing white angel on the
shoulders of his sisters, helping them fight their devils as he becomes
an unwitting catalyst for change. 

The movie's impressively talented and good-looking cast includes Zooey
Deschanel, Emily Mortimer, and Elizabeth Banks (looking a lot like
Parker Posey) as sisters. What's more, Rashinda Jones and Hugh Dancy
add to the already high eye-candy quotient. Steve Coogan plays Ned's
deliciously distasteful brother-in-law in his inimitable unpleasant-guy
way.

The film is smartly directed by Jesse Peretz from a story he developed
with his sister, Evgenia Peretz. I saw this at the Sundance screening
in Brookline, Massachusetts, where director Peretz said they wrote it
for Rudd, whom he clearly enjoys working with, and who wouldn't? Even
though they stuck to the script, Rudd improvised at least two of the
movie's funniest bits.

A fun ride throughout, the film only has a couple of weak spots. One
scene has Ned comfortably telling a white lie, something so out of
character it was jolting to the point of distraction. The ending could
use some reshaping, and perhaps it might get some before general
release. But even as is, this movie is about as charming and hilarious
as Rudd can be, which is quite sizable.
<|_=00=_|>
What a wonderful movie. Paul Rudd is terrific. He is truly the star.
His performance is outstanding. The idiot is not Paul's character, Ned.
He is a good-natured person who is willing to give everyone the benefit
of the doubt. Rather, the idiots are his three pretentious sisters who
treat Ned like a child, misinterpreting his honesty for immaturity. Ned
maintains his integrity, which is in sharp contrast to the phoniness
that he encounters in others. Misunderstandings occur as Ned forces his
sisters to confront their own lies. Ned is perceived as the family
problem when in fact he is the solution, except no one knows it, at
first. Several scenes are amusing as Ned's good nature and candid
outlook produces some awkward situations. This movie succeeds because
it tells a story, does so with humor, and keeps the audience engaged.
<|_=00=_|>
As has been stated many times already, Ned (Paul Rudd) is not an idiot.
Well, he kind of is. He lacks understanding of normal social protocol,
and not in a genius kind-of-way, but as a hippie. Prone to frequent
breakdowns in communication, one such instance lands him in jail. When
he's out, he's off to live with his family. His sisters all treat him
like he's an idiot. Hence, the title, "Our Idiot Brother." 

Ned is a good and caring guy. His sisters are completely different and
completely different from each other  one is even British. In their
own way, they are all selfish, demanding and insensitive people. But
don't worry, Ned is our hero and protagonist. If you are currently
sighing in relief, I understand. A career spanning two decades with
30-plus movie credits, and we've only seen Paul Rudd in the lead role a
handful of times.

Rudd has infused Ned with all the charm, likability and overall appeal
that we have come to expect from him. Surprisingly, the less likable
actresses playing the three unlikable sisters were at least able to add
some humour to their characters. The three supporting actors probably
could have stolen the show if they were given more time: Steve Coogan
as the husband with a penchant for exhibitionism; Hugh Dancy as a
creepy artist turned cultist; and Adam Scott as Rudd's long lost
brother  not literally, he just has the same presence.

"Our Idiot Brother" is a comedy, one of those heart-warming comedies,
where all of the characters start coming around to see the value of
having Ned in their life. It takes them longer than us to realize his
positive aspects because most of them are not fully-developed
characters, especially the mother, I'm not sure what the point of her
was.

Unfortunately, it's not a particularly funny comedy, but it is a
likable one. A few ill-fated groin jokes would have been better off in
a different movie, and a few jokes lost their humour after they
appeared in the trailer, and after that there's only a few left to
discover. It is funny, but not as funny as you would expect a comedy to
be. But did I mention likable? Because that's what "Our Idiot Brother"
is: sweet, charming and overall appealing.
<|_=00=_|>
Our Idiot Brother is probably the most harmless movie to come out this
year, a very light and entertaining piece with a remarkably warm heart.
At first I was frustrated by how thinly written the supporting
characters were and how the sisters are some of the worst people put on
film, but ultimately it's a necessary evil to get the film where it
needs to go. It's a nice little study on the cynicism and selfishness
of today's culture and how someone with a good heart and a sunny
disposition just gets taken advantage of and abused for being decent.

There are a lot of funny moments throughout, most of them coming from
Paul Rudd who plays a unique character for him (the rest of the actors
were cast exactly in their wheelhouse) and is really just charming and
kind the whole time. You really believe him in this role and Ned could
have come off as too dim or annoyingly sweet, but Rudd makes him so
likable and I just wanted to give him a big hug and hang out with him
the whole time. Sure, there are plenty of flaws with how the characters
were written, but in the end that's insignificant and just not what the
film is about. It's an easy and touching film that sheds a light on how
awful the majority has become, just like it's main character. Such a
relaxed and easy viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie IS a comedy. There are many types of comedy and you don't
have to laugh out loud the whole time for it to be a comedy. The movie
is funny, charming, and very cute.

It really isn't about Ned's philosophy of expecting the best of others
and seeing the good in them because even thought some people don't, and
it can hurt you, more people do and everyone is better for it. It's
about family dynamics, life choices, and learning to accept your own
actions.

By accepting responsibility for your own actions you are able to free
yourself to be more accepting of other people despite their flaws.
Because we all have flaws.

Ned is less of a protagonist and more of a catalyst for change in his
sisters' lives. The only reason I don't give this movie a 9 star rating
is because the ending is a little on the weak side. They could have
stopped the movie a few minutes earlier and it would have been
stronger.
<|_=00=_|>
'OUR IDIOT BROTHER': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five) 

This sweet hearted indie comedy doesn't have a bad bone in it's body.
It's the type of film that can really inspire people to want to do good
just by relating to their most simple good sided human nature. Paul
Rudd stars in the film, in his most likable role to date as well as one
of the most lovable comical heroes to come along in a while. The film
was directed by Jesse Peretz, who also directed the Zach Braff/Jason
Bateman 2007 dark comedy film 'THE EX'. (This film is definitely a
change in tone from that one). The story was conceived by Jesse and his
sister Evgenia and the screenplay was written by Evgenia and her
husband David Schisgall. They wrote the film with their buddy Rudd in
mind for the lead. Frequent Rudd co-stars Elizabeth Banks and Rashida
Jones co-star in the film as well as Zooey Deschanel, Emily Mortimer,
Steve Coogan, Adam Scott, T.J. Miller and many other familiar faces.
The film was one of the quickest productions in film history but it's
not any less impressive due to it's hastiness. Things just came
together really well the filmmakers say and it shows on screen. 

Rudd plays Ned who as the film opens is living with his girlfriend
Janet (Kathryn Hahn) on a biodynamic farm selling produce at the local
farmers' market and weed on the side.  One day he's busted for selling
cannabis to a uniformed police officer after he's tricked in to feeling
sorry for him.  After spending 8 months in prison he returns home to
find Janet living with another man (Miller).  She tells him to leave
cold heartedly and even refuses to let him have his dog 'Willie
Nelson'.  Ned first turns to his mother for a place to stay but then
quickly becomes a burden to his three sisters as well (Banks, Deschanel
and Mortimer).  Each has their own personal problems which Ned delves
himself in to.  His naive trustingness of everyone and overwhelming
honesty get him in to more trouble and causes problems with his entire
family as well. 

Paul Rudd is at his most likable and his performance really makes the
movie.  The supporting cast is all good as well but it's Rudd that
really makes the material work.  The script is pretty clever and
heartfelt to begin with and Peretz directs it well but the filmmakers
really knew what they were doing when they modeled it after Rudd. 
There's something really inspiring and emotional about a character like
Ned, almost in the same way as a 'Forrest Gump' or 'Rain Man' but I
don't think Ned is mentally challenged in anyway.  He's seen as an
idiot by others (including his own family) but that's just because he's
so trusting and loving of others.  Ned's whole theory on life is that
if you're always open and trusting of others, and truly put them to
that test, they'll usually come through.  That's a really optimistic
and positive way of going through life and some would say foolish but I
disagree.  Of course many would see it as a weakness and try to take
advantage of a person like that but in the end I think it's still worth
it (by all the good you do).  I could really relate to the Ned
character; I tend to be really trusting and open with others and also
sometimes overly honest.  He ends up getting in a lot of trouble (by
pissing his family and friends off) through sharing things people say
about each other in private (and behind the others' back).  This is
something I can really relate to.  There's a nickname for this I've
heard and like called 'diarrhea of the mouth'.  I've tried to improve
my weakness in this area and am not quite as clueless about it as Ned
but I think sometimes this too can be as much a benefit as harm.  If
you're really open and honest sometimes you end up sharing things about
others they don't want shared as well but it can often be a good thing
whether they realize it at first or not.  I'm sure many audience
members will miss the point of the movie and still see Ned as an idiot
because of the seemingly clueless havoc he causes but he does so much
more good than harm despite his flaws and I think he's a true
inspiration to us all.  Everyone should be like Ned.

Watch our review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EojWnKxpY94
<|_=00=_|>
As I write this review at the end of August, 2011, I realize it's my
last one of a good summer, and the movie, Our Idiot Brother, is a good
movie. It's a light-hearted, low-key comedy about a hippie brother Ned
(Paul Rudd) returning home from prison for selling pot to a uniformed
policeman.

That little episode that put him in jail is not only humorous because
of Ned's naiveté but also because of his big heart that would empathize
with the seemingly depressed cop and sell him the weed. Ned is a sweet
idealist who believes the best about his fellow humans and rarely is
disappointed. Although he has been a biodynamic farmer but now doesn't
have a job, his real job is turning his family honest, sister by
sister, without even trying, without even knowing that his Ibsen-like
Wild Duck openness has changed lives for the better.

For instance, when he forces his sister Miranda (Elizabeth Banks) to be
honest with her publisher about a source for an important story, she
eventually is better for the setback. A little like Forrest Gump with
less cluelessness, Ned changes things with the force of his own
honesty.

His three sisters are not wicked witches; they're just New Yorkers who
have lost their way in marriage, sexual orientation, or plain old
occupation. Director Jesse Peretz keeps the cast underplaying as he
allows the ripening of their lives through the gentle ministrations of
this child-like brother.

While I always favor the outré Royal Tenenbaums or eccentric Little
Miss Sunshine, it's pleasant to experience a relatively mild comedy
about family dysfunction and want more.
<|_=00=_|>
Jesse Peretz's 'Our Idiot Brother' is a decent watch, but what stands
tall in this film, is, without a shed of doubt, Paul Rudd's lovable
performance in the central role. The actor has never been so convincing
before!

'Our Idiot Brother' tells the story of an idealistic man who intrudes
and wreaks havoc in each of his three sisters' lives.

The film begins well, dips in the middle, but luckily, culminates
properly. As said, it's a decent watch, that never really bores or
loses it's pace. Evgenia Peretz & David Schisgall's Screenplay is good,
but it could've been better, especially post 40-minutes. Jesse Peretz
Directs this comedy-drama, ably. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design,
are fair. 

Performance-Wise: Paul Rudd delivers his careers most
lovable/convincing performance in here. He literally owns the film. As
his sisters, Elizabeth Banks, Emily Mortimer & Zooey Deschanel, are
first-rate. Kathryn Hahn is perfect. Rashida Jones is passable. Steve
Coogan is as usual. Others lend support.

On the whole, 'Our Idiot Brother' is a time-pass fare. A must watch for
Rudd fanatics.
<|_=00=_|>
Such a keeper, this one. Sweet, gentle and caring. It shows human
hypocrisy in the same breath as human capacity for love and
understanding. A really gentle film about a guy who has no
discrimination in his heart. It's sweet. We all need to know people who
see the good in others and have good intentions, it helps us tone down
our own cynicism and propensity for shrewd, self-serving behaviour.

This film also criticizes and shows the best of the hippie movement all
in one, and I love it for that. Intelligent, gentle and sweet.

Do watch it. Paul Rudd gives a really love performance... that guy
really can do a much wider range than he lets on with his dedication to
light comedy. Great show all 'round. Lovely film.
<|_=00=_|>
I will admit that my hopes were quite high for this flick. No pun
intended. Like most, Paul Rudd is a favorite comedic actor of mine. As
I expected, he did a splendid job with this flick. The supporting cast
also seemed to be quite good. Elizabeth Banks, Emily Mortimer, and
Zooey Deschanel played the three sisters of Rudd's character. Hence the
title of the movie.

The story starts out with one idiotic move by Ned, portrayed by Paul
Rudd. Ned is a biodynamic farmer and happens to be selling his crops at
a local market. A police officer approaches him and asks for some
"green." After Ned insists that he takes the marijuana for free, he is
arrested.

The character development in this movie was probably my favorite part.
Although frustrating at times, all the characters had that little
something about them that was genuine and unique. In addition to
learning a lot about Ned (like how he doesn't cheat or lie and trusts
others too much), we also witness quite a bit from his sisters too. I
really think if we saw the sisters together more often, then I'd laugh
a bit more. Although Our Idiot Brother was funny at times, it wasn't
the comedy film I was hoping for. I really thought that I'd be laughing
more. Perhaps another viewing at another time will perspire such
laughter, but I digress.

As alluded to earlier, Ned has three sisters. Miranda (Elizabeth
Banks), Liz (Emily Mortimer), and Natalie (Zoeey Deschanel). After he's
out of jail, Ned tries to live with his mom (Shirley Knight), but that
doesn't work out so he looks to his three sisters.

From there the plot begins to unfold. It's hard to discuss it without
giving away spoilers. You'll just have to see for yourself.

Also, Adam Scott, Steve Coogan, and Rashida Jones all have an active
role in the film. Very fun.

It's also worth noting that part of the filming took place at the
historic Hotel Chelsea. I've only been to New York City once and that's
the place I stayed. This film really gave me the urge to want to be
back in NYC!

Although not the movie that I wanted, it was pleasantly likable and
worth a watch.

7/10 Stars.
