
Yes, there were a couple good laughs to be had during this movie. But
for the most part, it was just weird. Even some of the funny scenes
went on too long and got to be awkward. The "story" (if you can call it
that) was predictable. The jokes were not, because they were so
outlandish that they came across as gimmicky.

Not that a movie like this requires great acting skills, but the roles
played by Rudd, Aniston and Watkins are at least believable. But the
credibility stops there. Most of the other characters are over-acted,
and poorly-developed.

And one of my biggest pet peeves: scenes from the trailer were NOT in
the film. THIS DRIVES ME MAD! It's like a restaurant advertising a
lunch special that they don't have in stock.

Bottom line: save your movie, and save your time.
<|_=00=_|>
"Wanderlust" is about a young New York couple who are suddenly left
with no income and need to find a place to live. On the way to Atlanta,
they come across a love commune and end up staying for a while. This
movie is filled with failed attempts at humor, don't get me wrong, some
parts are genuinely funny, but most of it seems like they tried too
hard to get a laugh. The main redeeming quality of "Wanderlust" is Paul
Rudd's performance. His character counter-acted the rest of the cast's
mediocre comedy. Overall I think it is an interesting story line with a
lot of potential that simply fell a little flat. I would definitely
suggest waiting for this one to come out DVD and saving the ten
dollars.
<|_=00=_|>
George and Linda (Paul Rudd and Jennifer Aniston) buy an apartment in
New York and immediately find themselves out of work. After a brief
sojourn with George's brother Rich who offers George a job, they end up
at a commune where the free-spirited life begins to have differing
effects on the two of them.

When I go and see a film which the critics say is awful, I always go in
hoping that, for me, I will find them wrong. The critics said this was
awful. I say they were right.

If I go and see a Spider-Man movie, it is important that the movie
sells me the idea that a radioactive spider bite can give someone the
ability to stick to a wall. If I go and see a Die Hard movie, it is
important that the movie sells me the notion that John Maclane can
out-think and out-gun hordes of bad guys. The first and worst (but by
no means only) flaw in this film is that, with the arguable exceptions
of George and Linda, the movie parades before us a cast of characters
each of which is no more than a container for a specific "amusing"
schtick: none of them convinces us that they are a real person at all.
They might as well be wearing labels - "Funny obnoxious brother",
"funny spaced out sister in law", "funny nudist man who doesn't listen
to you", "funny weird hippy lady", "funny pregnant lady" etc. Because
the characters are contrived and unbelievable, what might have
otherwise worked as far as story is concerned fails to do so. The fact
that what is supposed to be funny actually isn't doesn't help either.

I hated hated hated the bad language. It was crass and gratuitously
unpleasant. It was one of the factors, but not the only one, why I
hated the scene where Paul Rudd was stuck in front of a mirror gurning
"hilarious" obscenities in a squirmingly embarrassing sequence where he
is trying to work himself up for a sexual encounter. Simply awful.

There was moderate nudity: not from the young people with attractive
bodies (which Hollywood seems scared of), but from older performers. I
don't have anything against this, but I would rather such a sequence
included younger people.

Jennifer Aniston gave yet another lazy performance.

This was a bad film. Avoid it.
<|_=00=_|>
I had to write a review for this movie because I read some reviews on
this site before I watched it and was really debating on whether I
should even see it, but my girlfriend insisted. I thought from other
people's reviews that this movie was going to SUCK.

However it didn't. Far from it, I actually found myself laughing the
entire movie. Not a single actor, line or scene disappointed me. Yes
there was some awkward moments and characters, but hell, what's a
comedy without that? It didn't censor itself but rather embraced it's
originality; and that's why I think I enjoyed it so much. So to anybody
reading these reviews that are saying it's not funny, don't listen to
them, give it a chance and I doubt you'll be disappointed. I sure as
hell wasn't.

And to any male readers discouraged by the fact that there is a male
nudist in the movie, you can breathe easy- it's a prosthetic.

All in all I'll give this movie a 9 because it's funny, original, kind
of weird, and yet totally awesome.
<|_=00=_|>
I had high hopes for this film at the beginning. The scene where the
Jennifer Anniston character pitches her save-the-penguins film to HBO
satirizes both her and the network. And the montage of the auto trip,
showing the various changes of mood they go through over several hours,
is both realistic and hilarious. But I didn't laugh much after that.

The real problem with this film is that it is essentially a satire
directed at the hippie movement. There might have been a point to this
thirty years ago, but now??? I don't know if there even are any hippie
communes left, but they are hardly significant enough in our culture to
rate a full-length satire. And are we surprised that the most outspoken
proponent of free love and spirituality turns out to be a hypocritical
jerk? And how about the attack on the heartless developers? Are we
supposed to take that seriously? This theme was developed more
effectively, tongue-in-cheek, in "The Muppets" where at least we knew
it was intended as a clich√©.

I usually like Paul Rudd, but I found his attempt to come off as macho
to get into bed with a gorgeous blonde totally unconvincing and
unfunny. He is such a cool guy that I could not believe he would not
know how to approach a woman for sex.

For me the one bright spot in the film was Alan Alda's portrayal of an
aging hippie, possibly in the early stages of Alzheimers. He was the
one character who came across as genuine. In fact, in a better film he
might have gotten some Oscar buzz for best supporting actor.

Overall, a pointless film.
<|_=00=_|>
Jennifer's boobs are pixilated.(that's the spoiler) (ha ha..spell check
wants me to use dilapidated, instead of pixilated)...but it's no big
deal...this is a great couples movie and may cause some to question
their life's objectives and their relationships. Nicely paced, crisp
dialogue, believable circumstances and plausible events with sex,
drugs, and rock and roll....just like you and me but much better
looking and way more funny! bonus: I didn't fall asleep. that makes
this a ringing endorsement. I've passed this up at my rental kiosk
because of low review numbers..and finally just took a chance and I'm
glad I did. So I'm going to rate it high and try to get more people
smiling and chortling and guffawing, and snuggling and laughing and
thinking and enjoying a thought provoking movie about choices and
values, the pursuit of happiness, and the measure of success.
<|_=00=_|>
I have watched this film twice now and off the back of the second
viewing thought I would see what others thought of it. I was surprised
and increasingly confused as I read one negative review after another.
My confusion grew to frustration as I read comments like "the only
nudity is old, unattractive people" and "the characters aren't
believable". I feel these people have completely missed the point!
First of all, if you want to see attractive people naked then may I
politely suggest that romantic comedy is the wrong genre for you, I
believe you'd get what you want in the 'adult' category - it's
certainly bizarre and irrelevant to give this film a negative review
because you don't get to see Jennifer Aniston in the buff! 

Secondly,regarding the characters and all the oh-so-serious reviewers
commenting on the silliness and irreverence of the plot and the
character development, this is the sort of film that doesn't need to
develop the characters or have a deep plot, it wouldn't work as well if
it did actually. It's a light-hearted, fun movie. And it works. In my
opinion it actually works beautifully, the whole film has a great vibe
to it and certainly had me thinking that I might enjoy a brief
dalliance on a commune! It's witty, amusing, warm and titillating at
times, not for what it does show but for what it suggests about the
lifestyle the couple find themselves in.

Take this film at face value and suspend your disbelief, take off your
critic hat and just enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
My room mates watched this flick, told me it was worth a watch but
nothing special.

Full disclosure: I am a huge David Wain fan, I loved Stella, I watch
Wainy Days, etc.

This movie is about two city types who have a run of bad luck, end up
at hippie commune. Funny stuff ensues.

Not an original concept by any means but comedic none the less. Purely
hilarious cast sans Paul Rudd, I'm not a huge fan but I understand why
people do.

To the guy saying "its unrealistic": Hi, I'm movies. Have you ever seen
me before? Bottom Line: If you liked The State, Stella, Michael &
Michael Have Issues, Children's Hospital, or the like. You will more
than likely enjoy this movie.

7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I can see why this is getting so much hate, it's definitely a tad
vulgar and will offend the most sensitive, but hell i'd be lying if i
don't say i laughed quite consistently.

The tale of a new york couple that struggles with money and failure and
finds themselves in a small hippie commune it's simple but heartfelt,
Paul and Jennifer are quite good in this and move from serious to
awkward with ease, being in my late 30's i could relate with their
dilemma since i'm living through a similar f****d up system and the
desire to leave everything behind.

It's a comedy for adults so i didn't mind the more uncomfortable bits,
there's a lot of nudity (sorry, no Paul or Jen, only ugly folks), I
can't recommend it without reservations but I've had a good time.
<|_=00=_|>
If you remember the late 1960's this movie is really funny. I laughed
all the way through and this is unusual for me. To find a really funny,
intelligent comedy is rare and very welcome.

There are some intense and somewhat "uncomfortable" moments but, to me,
they were believable and gave the film some depth. I loved the way the
characters dropped their facades in the final scenes - now that's a
real "truth-telling circle". 

The juxtaposition of different cultures and personalities was written
brilliantly. I expect that sociologists will have a blast with this
film.

I rented this, despite the low rating, because of Jennifer Aniston and
Paul Rudd whom I consider to be wonderful comedic actors. It's great to
see them together again.
