
So I'm sure a lot of people saw this from the trailer, but Prom is a
classic Disney spin on a very big moment in a teenager's life. Yes this
movie is a preteen/early teen's dream about the life and drama involved
in asking someone out for prom and the plans that go in it. 

To star off on this review Prom centers on about five different
scenarios all wrapped up into one movie. The scenarios are a romance
story between the class president and a ruffian, another love story
between a dweeb and a beautiful sophomore, a small side story about a
guy trying to get someone to come to a prom, another story of deceit
and betrayal, and finally a story about an ideal relationship hitting a
rocky course. I know sounds like a soap opera doesn't it, and in fact I
would call this movie a teenage soap opera. The story lines in my
opinion were predictable, very linear, and felt similar to a plot found
in most Glee episodes. The dialog in this movie was not strong enough
to keep the story interesting as well, as it was more juvenile and not
really deep. However, from the trailers this is what I was expecting
would be the case and thus am not too shocked by it. 

Despite the poor main story line and the intense drama from others I
enjoyed the brief interludes present throughout the movie that involved
the unknown loser Lloyd and his quest to ask a girl out. These funny,
although weak, scenes gave the film a little more pace and took away
from the drawn out drama. The other story was the sophomore geek Lucas
and his quest to impress the lovely Simone while ditching his best
friend. This story was also weak and predictable, but the acting was
done well enough that I was dragged into feeling sorry for him. In fact
I could even see some qualities of myself in Lucas, which is probably
why I was interested in this story. 

So what else is there to say about this movie? Well the acting is not
bad, and although young, these actors are already showing potential for
being good actors. However, most audience members may be caught up in
the dramatic actions these teens do in the movie. However, I believe
the teenage girls will be focused more on the sulky, pouty, and rebel
nature of the main dude and will be making various sounds that
represent their attraction to the man. At least that was what I saw
when I saw this movie. Another thing is that the soundtrack is very
mainstream radio with songs from All Star Weekend, Taio Cruz, and yes
even Katy Perry being played throughout the movie. It adds zest to the
film and makes one feel like they are in prom, but if you're not a fan
of mainstream radio then you will not enjoy it. The camera work is nice
too, and the setting does actually feel like a high school setting so
that's another thing I find positive. However this movie was also like
being in high school musical, except get rid of the singing and dancing
and instead replace it with Twilight qualities. 

To wrap this up, Prom is a movie that will make teenage girls go gaga
and laugh at almost every scene. If they are not laughing, then there
is a good chance that they will be swooning over the guy leads in this
movie or awing at the cuteness this movie does have. As I have
mentioned before the dialog is weak, the story is predictable, and the
pace can be a little slow and boring at times. However, it is a cute,
high school soap opera that will entertain those that like to see happy
endings and smiles. This is also a movie that could be good for a date
as well. Regardless looking at this movie for what it is I will give it
a 7, but that's being a little generous. Until then enjoy and please
email me if you have any ideas to improve my writing at
rgkarim@mail.roanoke.edu
<|_=00=_|>
Prom is standard Disney fare, and that's not necessarily a good thing.
Disney movies are known to be, well, "Disney Clean." But when a film is
swabbed down to the point of utter harmlessness, and it sugarcoats the
nightmares and sadness some experience during prom, it ultimately
becomes laughably unrealistic and a pale shadow of the real event.

There's nothing wrong with being all well and good, but the events in
Prom are executed very poorly, the drama is handled in a fictitious
way, and the overall result is calamity. Even the characters, mostly
teens playing Seniors, when really, some appear to be Seniors in
College, are almost walking mannequins who aren't given enough freedom
to be themselves rather than just the stereotypes and the Disney bodies
they are told to be. Hollywood is able to create a convincing high
school premise, but they can't create convincing high school
characters.

The story is almost an anthology series of a plethora of boys and girls
getting ready for "that one special night" of prom. Prom is said to be
one of the greatest nights in a teenager's life, and these kids are
hellbent on that believing in that philosophy. The lead girl is played
by Aimee Teegarden. She is the over-achieving high school girl who
wants the Senior Prom to be perfect. She is paired with an incompetent,
loner who is more interested in believing his own philosophy of "prom
is just another stupid night" after all the original prom decorations
burn in a fire.

Prom then continues spitting characters at you at rapid fire, and
giving them their own set of problems. My favorite character was Luke,
played by Nolan Sotillo. He is the shy and scarred kid crushing on the
popular girl, and is waiting for the right move that never comes. He is
a little like me in that sense, but even he can't escape the true high
school formula for creating teenagers.

This film has everyone; the jock, the cheater, the scared girl, the
persistent boyfriend, the geeks, the pretty girl, the over-achiever,
the rebel, etc. All of which aren't convincing, and are poorly-drawn
figures.

If John Hughes had handled the script, what would he have done? For
one, not work with Disney. And two, maybe give some monologues which
this film desperately needs, and maybe give the characters a greater
personality rather than a stereotype. The story itself is very slim,
but even being so small, it could've spawned a good film.

I always try to find the target audience in films, and it seems Prom is
shooting below the bar. Seniors who will be attending prom will likely
not be amused or even interested by such a film, and people around the
age of eight will either not know what prom is or find the film by
complete accident. It does a fine job at showing the very basic
problems and events that go into such a dance, but still, if this had
been made by any other company but Disney, it likely would've focused
on more personal problems and more of the serious issues rather than
just "what dress should I wear?" This isn't incredibly disgraceful
film-making. It has heart, I'll give it that, but the reality is that
this isn't reality. This is the fictional world we should live in but
don't. Cheating is mentioned, but not focused on, every character takes
the path they're expected, and many of the serious issues are taken in
a brief and quiet manner. Again - standard Disney fare, but this time,
Disney misses the target and the target audience.

Starring: Aimee Teegarden, Thomas McDonell, Yin Chang, Nicholas Braun,
Dean Norris, Danielle Campbell, Nolan Sotillo, Cameron Monaghan,
Christine Elise, and Raini Rodriguez. Directed by: Joe Nussbaum.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was far from what I expected and certainly not worth my
$8.75 movie ticket. It's not exciting and extremely predictable. The
whole time I kept hoping it would get better or more exciting and it
just never did. I was very disappointed. There was really not even any
sparks between characters. They just kind of read their lines and moved
from scene to scene. There is never a "wow" moment in this film. I can
however see how it would be a great movie for much much younger kids
because it is very clean and good natured. Nothing for parents to worry
about. But if you're looking for the kind of teen romcom humor as in
John Tucker Must Die or Mean Girls, do not waste your time on this
movie. Definitely not worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>
Disney's Prom is exactly as advertised -- good, clean, wholesome fun
for the whole family. It's geared more towards High School juniors and
seniors, but tweens should get a kick out of it as well. It's highly
predictable and simply formulatic, but you don't go into a movie like
this one expecting John Hughes-style film making. It is what it is and
doesn't apologize for being paper thin, it relishes in it.

The movie follows a couple different couples and their journey to prom
night. The class president, Nova (Teegarden), gives each of the prom
helpers their free tickets to prom (and a plus one!) because they
earned them by volunteering to help her. We get to see whom each person
is taking via their wild and crazy prom proposals. Tyler (Nixon) asks
out his long-standing girlfriend, Jordan (Bunbury), but he's obviously
hiding something from her. I'll be honest, a lot of the faces are
starting to look similar and I won't be able to match up their
character names with their real names. So, an accident happens and all
the prom decorations get destroyed and Nova has to work overtime to
create them all again in order to get ready for prom -- the principal
wants to punish a certain student named Jesse Richter (McDonell), so he
forces him to help Nova or else he can't graduate. Another couple has
communication issues -- he's excited about their future college life
but she hasn't told him that she got accepted into another college
that's way far away from his. Another storyline has two geeky best
friends whose lives are about to be turned upside-down by one of them
getting interested in a girl (Campbell). Another story has a guy who
may or may not be lying about his prom date. And yet another story
follows a guy as he tries desperately to find a date to the prom with
the help of his little sister, with hilariously disastrous results.

As I said, I wasn't expecting John Hughes teenage angst because this is
a Disney flick. Even knowing what was in store for me, it wound up not
being too bad. Yes, it's highly cliché and I could tell you where the
story was headed before I even hit the play button. It should be a very
enjoyable watch for the entire family and it's not too stupid for the
parents to get bored. There are some chuckles to be had (especially
with the guy trying to find a date, his story line was the most
enjoyable for me), so it's not a complete loss.

All of the actors and actresses involved did a good job. There's no
award-winning performances in this picture, but at the same time no one
does a horrible job, either. It maintains a nice even flow throughout
the entire show and there wasn't a moment when I felt bored or wished
it would just end already. At least no one broke into song about the
prom and it didn't get too overly emotional and sappy either.

It's a nice movie with some pretty guys and gals and nothing in it is
offensive or rude -- a perfect movie to sit down and enjoy with your
young adults, tweens and early teenagers. Even though it's geared to
the 16 and 17-year-olds, they might find it to be just a tad too corny
or princess-y. All of the adults in the movie do take a backseat (and
why not, it's not about them) -- but they do make them out to be pretty
stupid, which is a shame because they made one of the fathers out to be
a stereotype from the 50's and 60's by making him actually go to the
boy and tell him to not date his daughter if he really loved her and
wanted the best for her. Really? Time to update your thinking, Disney.
I don't really think that happens that much these days.

More reviews at www.soveryterry.com 

Final Grade: B-
<|_=00=_|>
PROM  TRASH IT ( C+ ) Prom is the dullest and inconsistent tween movie
I've seen in recent times. The movie was supposed to be about prom and
updated tween version but sadly it showcases the typical dilemma about
prom with no consistency or regularity. The movie and its characters
are all over the place. Scenes are badly edited and joint together so
badly that even supposed funny scenes couldn't produce any laughs. The
only thing made me go through this movie was Amee Teegarden and Thomas
McDowell's story because as incomplete and typical it was, they brought
some charm to it. Besides these two, Danielle Campbell, Cameron
Monaghan & Nolan Sotillo scenes was little interesting. Nicolas Braun
looked aged and not funny at all as he looked in trailers. Overall,
good production value and time pass but story, dialogues and
characterization is not worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
...but that isn't saying much. Prom tells the story of a bunch of
teenagers who all want to go to prom. Their troubles with getting
dates, fixing destroyed decorations, and a bunch of other high school
drama stuff that is neither interesting nor realistic. I understand
Prom is geared towards the TWEEN crowd and I'm sure those tween girls
will love this movie. 

The cast is full of a bunch of no name kids, first time actors. This
was done on purpose to get the innocence of young kids caught on film.
The director wanted it to feel real. Big mistake because a lot of these
kids can't act. It doesn't come off as real, instead it feels forced
and unnatural. This is the film biggest flaw, these kids aren't
believable in their roles. The only one who manages to be interesting
is Nicholas Braun, who does have some acting in his background. He was
also in Kevin Smith's ambitious if flawed Red State. His story about
trying to get a girl to go to prom with him and failing each time is
the only funny bits and it's due to the performance he manages to give.
He has good comedic timing and should have some sort of career after
this. The rest of the cast I'm not so sure about. 

There main story here is that of a young girl who has a bright future
ahead of her. She is also the prom committee organizer and when two
teens accidentally burn down all the decorations, she is partnered up
with the resident 'bad boy' to get them all back in working order. If
he doesn't help, he won't graduate. So these two polar opposite kids
have to put their differences aside and work together to get everything
done for prom. Hmmm, might they discover that their preconceived
notions of one another were wrong and they start to like each other? No
way, right? That would be too obvious and clichéd. But of course it
goes down that road. It's a shame that the two actors didn't have any
chemistry with each other.

The second character story I had a problem with involved a young guy
trying to be on the lacrosse team. He's a freshman and he manages to
become friendly with a really cute girl. Tyler, team captain, soon to
be prom king and all around popular guy sees the cute girl with the
freshman and decides to use him to get to her. The problem is, he's
with another girl and they are going to prom together. The cute girl
decides to be friendly with the freshman, despite wanting to be with
the popular one. This is all fine and dandy, until the soon to be prom
queen discovers that he wants to be with this cute girl and hearts are
broken. Cute girl decides to ditch freshman to be with soon to be prom
king and go to prom. She finds out that soon to be prom queen dumped
him because he found out about her, but he told her that he dumped soon
to be prom queen so he can be with her. She feels cheated and goes back
to the freshman. Confused? 

The problem I have with that is that she does to him pretty much what
soon to be prom king did to her. He only goes to be with her because
his prior relationship didn't work out. So he's the scumbag. Yet, she
only goes to be with the freshman because her relationship with him
didn't work out. How are we suppose to be okay with this? Mixed
messages here. 

The script, direction and even cinematography are all bare minimum.
Nothing interesting ever happens on the screen, or in the script. It's
as if they were on autopilot during the production of the film. Putting
a camera on and making people do stuff in front of it is not exciting,
nor is it good, in my opinion. Having interesting, complex characters
in situations they have to overcome is. This is why Prom did not work
for me and will most likely work for the tween target audience. They
will find the film cute, the boys cute and the music good enough to
dance to. This was not the type of Highschool I went to. If I want a
film that helps me discover who I am at that age, I watch John
'fricken' Hughes my friend, not a cheaply made Disney flick.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I don't see many reasons for this movie to be hated. It's
really not that bad, at all. Movie shows to us some activities and
problems that teenagers have at the end some of theirs' spots in life. 

When we are talking about the acting, I can say that I was quite
surprised how decent it was. Aimee Teegarden and McDonell did really
good job with their roles. Their story was predictable ( like the whole
movie in general), but it was nicely done. It was touching, softly and
for someones heartbreaking. All of the characters were interesting,
likable and pretty good to see them again in another scene. I have to
admit, that it was rare movie with all likable characters in my case
and opinion. Again, there were a lot of them, and because of that, we
can't reach full character development, which is weak minus, but it
happens with this movies. 

Soundtrack of this movie is great. It perfectly matches with all of the
scenes. 

Cinematography was also great. All places in the movie were very
beautiful and interesting. 

Of course, just like I said, movie is predictable, sometimes corny and
unrealistic, but that doesn't mean that it's bad. It's just there to
add some charm. At the end of the day, it's just comedy about high-
school.

Overall: With all of this, some positive energy reaches to your heart,
while you're watching "Prom", at least in my case. You're not gonna be
disappointed, unless you have high hopes. My final rating: 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
It puzzles me as to the low rating for this film. Although painfully
innocent, rude or even subtly rude gags completely left out, and
remarkably cliché (almost all moments were predicted by people in the
room while watching), PROM is a light-hearted, humorous and generally
nice tale of the most important moment to teenagers about to leave
school.

Most enjoyable was the acting of Lloyd, played by Nicholas Braun, and
just how believable and funny the small story lines for him were.
Perhaps the less cliché moments of the film were enjoyed by his
character.

Overall, a nice, sweet film that would be most enjoyable to people
around the age of the characters in the film.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie, by Disney, is about as G rated as they come when dealing
with teens. I mean most high school flicks have got someone smoking
dope or being sluts or cussing all the time. But, none of that is in
this movie. The only scandalous thing is a couple of kisses. This movie
should have been about 6th graders instead of high school seniors. Any
way the main story centers around the prom decorations being destroyed.
So prom committee leader, Nova, has 3 weeks to make new decorations.
She is partnered with bad boy, Jesse, whom must do this in order to
graduate. So, of course, they are polar opposites, but end up liking
each other at the end. Then some of their friends have problems, like
who can I take to prom, and I'm going to go to college out of state.
Such difficult problems.

FINAL VERDICT: 6th graders may like it, otherwise skip it.
<|_=00=_|>
I will freely admit, I'm a sucker for trashy teen films, so obviously I
enjoyed Prom. This is a Disney production so don't watch it expecting
any of the antics you see in Glee or Skins, these kids are SQUEAKY
CLEAN! Even the supposed rebel in the film us quite tame.

In saying that though it isn't extremely Disney either, if you didn't
know it was Disney you wouldn't be able to tell. The acting isn't
marvelous but a film like this doesn't call for tremendous acting,
Aimee Teegarden is pretty enough to just ignore her acting. Also, the
soundtrack was impressive.

Cliché yes, bad acting yes, cheesy yes, but hey, its not trying to be
the next Mean Girls, so just take it for what it is. :)
