
I never herd the term Duff before and I don't know if it exist in real
culture, but it made for a humorous movie. 

Bianca Piper is The Duff (Designated Ugly Fat Friend). Though it sounds
very cruel when spelled out, abbreviated it just means your not as cool
or as hot as the friends you hang around, and if your a teenage girl
who was made aware of this by your idiot jock next store neighbor
without previous knowledge that you were different from your herd, that
could put you on a downward spiral.

This movie is just more proof that teenagers don't change (technology
does and social media plays a very large part in this movie), which is
why the movie seems formulated. I would not spoil anything if I told
you how it ends so long as you have seen a teen comedy before.

I find the topic of the Duff fascinating. The character itself has been
seen in every teen movie ever. It's always the main protagonist, the
semi-cooler kid that wants the protagonist to party and the third
wheel, that now has a name. For the first time in teen comedy history(I
think) that third wheel got it's own flick and it turns out the Duff is
funnier than the one liners we had it say over the course of time.

Mae Whitman played the character with amusing results.

I totally recommended seeing this film. highly enjoyable
<|_=00=_|>
The comedic movie, The Duff, is hilarious, relatable and worth
watching. The film is about high-school senior Bianca, played by Mae
Whitman, who finds out that she is the DUFF (Designated Ugly Fat
Friend) of her attractive group of friends. Determined to change her
DUFF image and impress her crush Toby, she turns to her popular
neighbor Wesley Rush, played by Robbie Amell, to give her a complete
makeover. Through her journey of transformation, she gains self
confidence and shows the school that everybody is a DUFF. 

Not only do I enjoy that the movie starts off fast, but I really like
that it starts with a cool, graphic newspaper clip that explains high
school and the different types of people in high school. Being a high
school student myself, I was really surprised at how relatable the
movie is, especially to today's generation of teenagers. It doesn't
just portray the generic, stereotypical high school student that is so
outdated. The movie has a lot of familiar celebrity stars that I
enjoyed seeing. The performances by Mae Whitman, Robbie Amell, Allison
Janney and Ken Jeong are especially hilarious and very entertaining.

The movie is hilarious, yet deep. Most comedy movies are really funny,
yet pointless or lack an overall message. I laughed so often and even
shed a tear in a heartfelt scene. The facial expressions are priceless
and memorable. I respect this film for being extremely funny while also
having a deep, motivational moral lesson and theme. I enjoyed the plot
and moral of the story as much the comedy. The movie has a lot of
references that are very comical. One example is an episode of the
Simpsons that the movie shows. The movie also has really entertaining
graphics that make the movie even more unique, some of this include
labels and an interactive screen effect.

This film is one I will watch multiple times and tell my friends to
watch, yet I do not recommend it as a family movie. The film may be
inappropriate for children under the age of 13 due to inappropriate
language and actions. I definitely recommend the movie for teenagers in
high school, especially girls. I recommend the movie to ages between 13
and 18. I give this movie 4 out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the pleasure of going to see the NYC premiere last night with my
sister and was pleasantly surprised. Mae Whitman's performance in this
film has set her up to be Hollywood's next breakout star. She brings so
much humor, wit and charm to the table that's going to make her fans
wanting more. 

Viewers will also identify with Mae's struggles in the film, as well as
the overall message. I think we could all agree that everyone has has a
DUFF in their friend group. DUFF doesn't always have to mean ugly or
fat (it can, but it doesn't always apply). One example of a DUFF can be
a friend that's always just kind of there in the friend group and makes
everyone else look better. Another example of a DUFF, which is similar
to Mae's character in the film, is the friend of the group that is
hilarious and makes everyone die laughing, but is rarely someone a guy
is attracted to or would be looking to date. There are different
dimensions to the term duff. No duff is the same.

Every one person can have a little DUFF in them. Meaning, a flaw,
insecurities, etc. Overall, the film was funny, even a bit crude at
points, but also very touching. I'd definitely recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
Take a look around and survey your group of friends, are they all good
looking? Then you might be the designated ugly fat friend, or the DUFF.

Bianca's life becomes undone when someone reveals to her that she is
the DUFF to her prettier and more popular high school friends.
Frustrated, she retaliates by instigating the status quo and social
hierarchy at her school.

This comedy finds its laughs as Bianca, played by Mae Whitman,
desperately tries to reinvent herself and overcome DUFF status. A
chronic DUFF, she can't do it alone, and makes a deal with her neighbor
Wesley (Robbie Amell) to undo the damage.

A fan of Mae Whitman, Robbie Amell is the clear star of this film.
Playing an endearing jock without being a cliché is quite a feat and
his performance is scene stealing without being a parody.

From that plot alone there is not much to the story within the high
school film The Duff. The film injects an archetype antagonist, played
by Bella Thorne, the most classic mean girl ever invented. This
character's existence is solely responsible for the plot feasibly being
stretched to feature film length  otherwise the DUFF would be
relegated to a solitary episode plot line on a WB television series.

Though briefly marketed as the Mean Girls of the 2010's, it really is
in an inferior class in comparison to the phenom that was (and is) Mean
Girls. The writing, plot and direction are all ho-hum: funny enough for
a one time watch with your girlfriends with popcorn, but that's about
it.

Please check out our website for FULL reviews of all the recent
releases.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a fresh idea ,, new definitions and it's kinda purposeful which
makes it a bit exciting .. not the type of comedy where you laugh your
A$$ off ,, but it has more than a bunch of funny bits which made it
fine in that area. Ken Jeong appearance was one of the few of scenes
that intrigued me to keep on watching the movie, Hilarious man.. to be
fair ,, this project would look so much better as a TV movie or
probably as a series on CBS, and it could hit huge success, but the
idea of series based on these type of stories is not really new on TV
(like "Awkward" 6 seasons so far on MTV which is a success),, the plot
seemed entangled but it went toward a clear goals .. the writing looked
okay ,, tight in some parts but still it didn't help much to cover some
holes in the production as there were a couple of still scenes in the
mid of the movie.

As for the cast ,, it was well picked .. again Ken Jeong in the
beginning of the movie ,, he was really funny ,, the girl from
"parenthood" ;) Mae Whitman she has flown up high to be really good
funny gal and all the other girls as well were fine,, Chris Wylde was
hilarious in the end of the movie :D ,, Robbie Amell really good acting
all popular and careless .. "you were nerdy on fire in the flash" :D
:D,, adding the lovable Allison Janney i think all of that crew made
the movie a bit more funny and well it helped out with the rating.

Overall,, it is fresh enjoyable movie .. with a funny bits from another
perspective and not forgetting to shine a light on cyber bullying
problem.. so it is a recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
The DUFF is quite entertaining and has a really nice poignant message.
The film captures life, I mean the characters, and I'm mostly referring
to Wesley (Robbie Amell) and Bianca (Mae Whitman), are realistic,
humanized. I got a weird sense that I was watching people I knew and
not a stereotypical film version of them. The movie has that
documentary feel to it and it's due to how the leads portrayed their
characters and how easy it is to relate to them.

The only real disappointment I have with the movie is that I thought it
would be funnier. It's still a comedy but it's a little more serious
than I expected. Watching the trailer I thought that I would laugh a
hell of a lot more, specially when you look at the established comedic
cast in it. Whitman and Amell do have good comedic timing and The DUFF
is fairly funny but the quality of the jokes are not as high as I
hopped they would be. 

The story is intelligent, insightful, and kind of funny but it's still
very predictable. The DUFF is on the edge of being great but it's not. 

@wornoutspines
<|_=00=_|>
A film that was expected not surprise, but he did happily. Fun, shows
modern and contemporary themes with a comic and natural touch. It
presents an interesting terminology. It is predictable in parts of the
plot and has clichés, but still the good parts of the film stand out
more.

Mae Whitman provides a lovely, funny and intelligent character, Robbie
Amell was interesting and fun too. One possible bright future for both.
Allison Janney always great.

A nice movie with several moments to laugh and better than the other
trash teen movies. I enjoy it a lot. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
No doubt the plot was more or less the same story of a not hot girl (a
DUFF in 2015) try to change herself then lose her friend but finally
discover that this isn't herself and end up with the guy who she did
not target in the first place. You can figure all this out from the
first 5 minutes of the movie.

However, the real charm and entertaining is within the 2 main character
Bianca and Wesly (the only two character that actually have a role).
Bianca was awkwardly funny and smart while Wesly was cheeky, idiot and
cutest. Together they are amusing, charming, and realistic probably one
of the best couple in my list right now. 

I think what really attract people to the movies was the insider that
it is damn true about a DUFF (apparently I am one). It is another
entertaining teen flick movie but just don't expect anything new from
it then you will ended the movie with pleasure and a little blush.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a bit of an "updated version" of Mean Girls-think that movie
with social media. Mae Whitman's character learns from her neighbor and
star football player that she is her friends' DUFF-designated ugly fat
friend, a frequency among high school cliques. This does not go over
with her, and she freaks out and tries to improve things a little bit
while "changing friends." 

This movie does have a message-I won't ruin things by revealing it.
Anyone who likes high school comedies will like this. The cast works
well together, and you will like the school and teacher scenes. Overall
a funny and enjoyable film.

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
Fortunately the trailer teaches us what DUFF means because otherwise no
one would know. It's that approachable guy in your group of friends who
no one cares about but is useful for inter-group communications. You
didn't ever know anyone like that? Me neither, go figure. But, as a
film mechanic it works.

Remember all that teen anxiety you used to have? Still got it? Yep me
too. You're only comfortable with the people you know but how do you
get to know someone new? If you're in touch with that feeling then this
movie that explores awkward teenage romance will appeal.

There are more laughs in this than the average teen movie. The
characters are explored a bit more fully than in the average teen
movie. It is a better than average teen movie.
