
Wrath of the Titans (1:39, PG-13, 3-D) 혰 5 혰 fantasy: sword & sorcery,
biggie, sequel

Here, in response to no obvious demand, we have Sequel of the Titans.
What follows is less a coherent review than a collection of
observations.

(1) The plural is misleading. There's only 1 titan, Cronos, and he's
off-screen for 90% of the film. He's been imprisoned in Tartarus for
eons, which explains why he's wrathful. What is never satisfactorily
explained (or even addressed) was how this mountain-sized lava monster
ever procreated, since he's supposed to be the father of much smaller
and more human-like gods like feuding brothers Zeus, Poseidon, and
Hades.

(2) Don't go in with any pre-conceived ideas based on actual Greek
mythology. It's a 2011 story featuring characters left over from 2010's
Clash of the Titans.

(3) Warner Bros. threw a lot of money at this, and most of it shows up
on the screen.

(4) It's pretty much non-stop fighting (vs. chimeras, cyclopes, a
minotaur, and assorted gods and demigods), not entirely at the frenetic
pace of Transformers, where things are flying by too fast to figure out
who's doing what to whom, but too much so for my taste.

(5) The story is not going to win any Pulitzers, Nobels, or Hugos, but
it's not entirely predictable, and anything that contemplates the total
extinction of the gods gets a big plus from me.

(6) Despite having some pretty good actors in here (Liam Neeson, Ralph
Fiennes, Bill Nighy, Danny Huston, and, yes, Sam Worthington), they
don't really get much chance to practice their craft, but they're not
just phoning it in, either.

(7) Based on the damage he absorbed, Perseus should have been dead or
permanently crippled on over a dozen occasions. Absence of credible
consequences makes it difficult to establish serious threats or build
suspense.

(8) Psychologists who are fixated on the idea of daddy complexes will
love this. Normal people will spend a lot of time rolling their eyes.

(9) Rosamund Pike is along for the ride as Queen Andromeda, and she
gets in a few licks, but mainly she cleans up real good.

(10) I'm fonder of 3-D than most, so FWIW I thot it was put to good use
here in the swooping shots thru the burning villages, labyrinth, and
pits of hell. Mercifully, no pokey-outy sharp things, but I had to duck
the occasional flaming boulder.

(11) This will not tax your intellect, but it's a well-paced,
semi-interesting, action-packed ludicrously unbelievable adventure.
They could have done worse, and so could you.
<|_=00=_|>
Epic movies have been around for several years now. Simply throwing
action and graphics at a movie can no longer make it great. Epics have
been pulled down to the level of an average movie. We must care about
the characters. The dialogue must be worthwhile. The storyline cannot
be linear and bland. Wrath of the Titans, although enjoyable, did not
get the memo.

Wrath of the Titans follows a linear storyline. Any person who has any
knowledge of Greek mythology with grow bored of the overused story of
the labyrinth, Kronos, and how being part human makes you stronger than
a God. The storyline has absolutely no originality. It's almost like
the screenwriter read Percy Jackson and the Olympians and decided to
turn the series into a more adult movie.

Luckily, there are several aspects that save Wrath of the Titans from
being horrible. For one, the dialog worked. Mix that with the fantastic
graphics and you have a movie that you can sit back and enjoy혰 so long
as you don't think too much. At the heart, the original Greek mythology
about Gods overthrowing Titians is quite intriguing. It's just been
done far too often

I must note that this movie should have been longer. The opening was
far too short. You barely see the town in which Perseus and his son
live before it gets ripped apart. With no buildup, it is impossible to
care for the characters. This makes the movie little more than Greek
Myth brought to life with no depth. It is truly unfortunate. A movie
like this has so much potential. It was all wasted with a horrible
screenwriter.

If you like Greek Mythology or enjoyed Clash of the Titans, this is a
movie you might want to see. If that is not the case, it's not
something you will want to see in theatres (or at all). There have been
much better action/adventure movies so far this year혰The Grey and
Chronicle are two. Wrath of the Titians is a movie with potential.
Unfortunately, the makers of the movie forgot to turn that potential
into gold.

reillyreviews.wordpress.com
<|_=00=_|>
I'm one of the 3% of the population of Americans that actually enjoyed
the 2010 remake of "Clash of the Titans". It wasn't a masterpiece, in
fact, I wouldn't even call it good. But there was a charming simplicity
to it all. It involved generic characters getting from Point A to Point
B in an hour and a half. Sure, it was plagued with problems, but for
me, it's a serious guilty pleasure. But that's another review for
another time. 

The most glaring problem with "Wrath" is that it's essentially the same
thing as the first one, with a few tweaks here and there. Sam
Worthington plays Perseus. He's strong, powerful, and dull as a rock.
It's just Worthington's generic, bland good guy. He's not a terrible
role model, he's just not that particularly engaging. The only
character that's more boring is Queen Andromeda, played by Rosamund
Pike. These two characters share such an awful, contrived romance that
it makes Anakin and Padme from the Star Wars prequels look like Romeo
and Juliet.

But, as I said before, this sequel is merely a re-tread of the first
movie. Sure, the first one was predictable, but at least it gave us a
bit of time to know each of the characters. Here, there's no
development because they just assumed you know these characters because
you watch the first movie. That's a problem I find many sequels running
into, and here, it really weakens it.

The special effects here are used in a way that makes me want to
sterilize the people who came up with them. The filmmakers operate
under the impression that if you throw a ton of special effects onto
the screen, it will give your audience something to look at. The
problem with that logic is that the factors of character development
and motivation are canceled out by the pointless action sequences to
such a degree that the audience becomes bored by these fight scenes.
The special effects don't dazzle audience members like they did in the
past when they're used in such a repetitive fashion.

With really bad movies like this, when all hope is lost, I try to focus
on the positive aspects of the film. And there are a few good things
found here. Liam Neeson, Ralph Fiennes, and Bill Nighy are pretty
entertaining as the gods of Mt. Olympus, and I do like that there is
some, though not a lot, of development with these guys. The movie sort
of touches on the messed up issues of family in Greek mythology, and it
was interesting. Whenever I found myself watching Sam Worthington and
his band of bland beatniks (try saying that five times fast), I was
wishing that I could be watching Liam Neeson and the others, because
they were interesting! Unfortunately, not even the awesome acting of
Liam Neeson can save this stinker, kind of how Optimus Prime couldn't
save the "Transformers" sequels.

Final verdict: If you're a fan of rich cinematic genius like Citizen
Kane or 12 Angry Men, this is not your kind of movie. It's too long,
too forced, and too choppily edited. I'll admit, there were people in
the theater that watched it and seemed to get really invested, and if
you think you can, go ahead and watch it. For me, there were just too
many things that didn't add up for me to enjoy this one. I don't regret
seeing it, but repeat viewings are not in my future.
<|_=00=_|>
The story is absolute rubbish. Anyone with the slightest knowledge of
mythology would cringe at the terrible things they made the Gods do.
There are so many bad things about the plot.

1. How could they make Ares and Hades fight against Zeus and then make
Hades change sides for hardly any reason? 

2. How could they make Zeus die? 

3. Why is Perseus speaking with an Australian accent? Come on Sam at
least fake something neutral! 

4. Since when did Andromeda become some tomboy warrior amazon? 

5. Why would Ares be jealous of that silly little fisherman Perseus
when all he was doing was fishing? What pointless animosity. Since when
were the Gods thugs?

6. Why is Pegasus so dark?

I thought the 2010 Clash was a terrible remake of the 80s version. The
2010 Clash had no charm romance or dignity of the Gods. But Wrath is
worse. The story is so rubbishy and the dialog so terrible that it's
gone light years away from the right direction. 

The acting and casting aren't good. Rosamund Pike isn't appealing
enough for a princess. Her cold blank expression is annoying. Sam
Worthington looks even more nondescript let alone heroic than before.
He isn't even 1 percent God. And why did he start speaking in his
native accent? Are the Gods from Down Under? And the sudden kiss at the
end is so out of place even Andromeda looked shocked. Liam Neeson and
Ralph Fiennes are too good to be in this bad movie.

Don't watch this one - it's an example of silly people just throwing
money away on effects when the plot stinks.
<|_=00=_|>
The powers of the gods are dwindling and the gods are slowly fading
into oblivion. Monsters are being raised from wherever. Buildings are
sliding all around the place. And there is no reason to care about ANY
of it. 

Ares and Hades are villains just as we've seen in nearly EVERY Greek
mythology based storyline. I just want to pound my head against the
wall every time I see this cinematic flatulence.

The love interest from the first movie is gone and instead of recasting
the part, they just kill off the character. Bobo the Owl makes another
cameo in this movie, playing the role of Wilson the Volleyball from
Castaway. The blue ents are gone... I guess the action figures must not
have sold that well.

When the Titan emerges (and it is the ONLY titan in the movie), he
looks like the lava Titan from Disney's Hercules. The Titan shouts a
lot, but hell if I could ever understand a word he said.

At least Perseus doesn't look like he came from the Jarhead Clan
anymore. But he is still an idiot. Zeus comes to him in the beginning
of the story to tell him that the world is coming to an end and he
needs his help. Perseus refuses because... get this... he refuses to
leave his son. Apparently despite having god blood in his veins he is
still unable to think far enough in advance to realize that if the
world comes to an end, he'll be leaving his son permanently.

The roles of Hades, Zeus and Hephaestus were really good, but three
good performances just could not save this turkey from its bad writing
and a dreadfully boring plot riddled with clich챕s.
<|_=00=_|>
Although Clash of the Titans was universally dismissed as an
overwhelming disappointment 혯 and featured the worst post-converted 3D
ever 혯 it raked in the big bucks and a sequel was naturally green-lit
by Warner Bros. With a new director (Battle LA's Jonathan Liebesman
replacing Louis Leterrier) and an extra $25m to toy with, Wrath was
given the opportunity to learn from its predecessor's mistakes. Alas,
this loud and sporadically entertaining mess largely fails to deliver;
Sam Worthington's acting again doesn't cut the mustard, the action is
well-choreographed but repetitive, and the CGI remains below par
considering the dosh thrown at it. However, it's the lack of
imagination and unpredictability in the plot department that truly
stifles the proceedings. If you get to the end of the first act and
don't already know how the rest of the movie is going to play out,
you're probably sleeping. Liam Neeson and Ralph Fiennes spice things up
as Zeus and Hades respectively, and Toby Kebbell's comic sidekick is a
successful ploy to inject the humour sorely missing from Clash, but
it's not enough to make this misfire recommendable.
<|_=00=_|>
Thinking of going to see Wrath of the Titans? In 3d? Save yourself some
pocket money and do the following instead: lie on the ground and pour a
mixture of soil and skittles slowly into your eyes whilst mumbling the
names of Greek Gods. This will have the same entertainment value as the
film, and a considerably better plot.

Having seen the remake of the original, I went into Wrath of the Titans
with my expectation level pretty low. Five minutes in, I quickly
lowered it further. Ten minutes in... I buried my expectation level
under my seat and stomped it into the ground - hard. But however low I
set the bar, the film went lower. It's unimaginably dire.

There's simply nothing redeemable about the film at all. Even the
impressive effects are ruined by awful direction that renders them no
more engaging than watching a ten year old playing video games through
a kaleidoscope.

Everyone involved in making Wrath of the Titans should be thoroughly
ashamed of themselves; and to be fair Liam Neeson and Ralph Fiennes
clearly are as they show it on screen. They both look embarrassed to be
a part of it. I'm embarrassed that I bore witness to it. Please don't
be a statistic and join us. There's nothing to see here - move along,
move along.
<|_=00=_|>
The Gods indeed deserved better than the 2010 remake of 'Clash of the
Titans', a wholly ill-conceived attempt at revisiting the campy Ray
Harryhausen sword-and-sorcery epic that instead replaced the original's
stop-motion visual effects with second-rate CG effects. And certainly,
the producers seemed to have heeded the call with this sequel,
retaining the fine cast from the original- Sam Worthington, Liam Neeson
and Ralph Fiennes- while opting for fresh writers and a new director.

It's still as important however to keep your hopes down for 'Wrath of
the Titans', especially for those expecting a sweeping mythological
epic. Taking over the reins from French director Louis Leterrier is
Johnathan Liebesman, and going by his previous works- 'The Texas
Chainsaw Massacre: The Beginning" and "Battle: Los Angeles"- the man is
at best an efficient but uninspired director who pays more attention to
visceral pleasures than to anything resembling depth.

That is certainly true of his work here, which vastly improves the
action sequences of the original but little else. As if singularly
devoting his time to create mind-numbing big-budget sequences,
Liebesman invests little in the story and in his characters- God,
demi-god and human alike. Both are mechanical at best and engineered
with a specific purpose of taking his viewer from one jaw-dropping
sequence to another, never mind the inconsistencies or the leaps of
logic along the way.

So despite the exposition, the plot of the entire movie can be summed
up in a one line- to save Zeus (Neeson) from his conniving brother
Hades (Fiennes) and jealous son Aroes (Edgar Ramirez), the demi-god
Perseus (Worthington) leaps back into full battle mode since retiring
ten years ago to a quiet life in a small fishing village. Before facing
the worst of them all, Perseus will have to go up against a host of
hideous- looking monsters- a fiery-mouthed Chimera with two heads at
the front and a snake's head at its tail; a trio of towering Cyclops
giants; a Minotaur; and a band of half-man, half-rock soldiers with
four arms and two bodies that twist around on a pair of legs.

There's no denying that the creatures this time are much more
inventive, and the action sequences choreographed much more skilfully,
adding up to a much more thrilling time than what its predecessor
offered. Saving the best for last, Liebesman also crafts an epic finale
with a gigantic lava-spewing monster known as the Kronos that also
involves a whole legion led by warrior-queen Princess Andromeda
(Rosamund Pike). The victory call at the end may be a tad overdone, but
the climax alone is worth the price of admission and surprisingly
impressive even in post- converted 3D.

Pity then that the rest of the movie often pales in comparison- and
perhaps the most jarring of all is the poorly defined interfamilial
conflict between Zeus, Hades and Aroes. Screenwriters Dan Mazeau and
David Leslie Johnson (working off a story that's also credited to Greg
Berlanti) give Aroes little motivation behind his father's betrayal
other than his envy of Perseus, nor do they manage the sibling tension
between Zeus and Hades convincingly. Worse still, they try to turn
Hades into a less straightforward character by casting him as a
reluctant pawn in Aroes' scheme midway into the movie, and the
subsequent reconciliation between Zeus and Hades is laughable even with
the considerable acting talents of Neeson and Fiennes.

Certainly, both thespians are well aware of the thin material here, but
kudos to the pair for trying to imbue their Godly characters with the
gravitas they usually bring to their roles. Among the more interesting
additions to the cast are Bill Nighy as the loony weapons-maker
Hephaestus whom Perseus approaches for help to gain entry to the
underworld labyrinth Zeus is held captive, as well as Toby Kebbell as
Poseidon's son Agenor and the only other character besides Hephaestus
to have a sense of humour in the entire movie.

Indeed, the movie takes itself too seriously for its own good, ignoring
its own campy origins in favour of a self-serious sensibility to its
storytelling that only further exposes its plot and character flaws.
This is, and perhaps has always been, about watching Gods, demi-gods
and monsters go at each other with sound and fury- and thankfully, this
sequel easily betters its predecessor on this regard alone. That's not
likely to be enough to make the Gods happy though, but for those of us
mortals looking for big-budget mind-numbing spectacle, this will do
just fine. 

- www.moviexclusive.com
<|_=00=_|>
All right, I agree with most people when they say 2010's Clash of the
Titans was not a great movie, but I didn't hate it. I didn't walk out
of the theater with a feeling like "OMG, that movie kicked ass!". It
was OK, I thought the film had pacing issues and the 3D was, well...
about as bad and pointless as people made it out to be. So is the
sequel, Wrath of the Titans, an improvement?

I'm happy to report that yes, Wrath of the Titans is better. It's not a
great film by any means, it is flawed, but if you're looking for 99
simple minutes to kill by looking at some pretty darn impressive action
sequences, then you are in luck. Also, if you thought the 3D in Clash
was bad, that's not the case with Wrath. Don't expect anything along
the lines of Avatar, but I gotta say, the 3D was used pretty nicely and
didn't come off as a total gimmick.

My biggest issue with the film, however, is one that I had with the
previous film. The film sometimes feels a bit slow and that it takes a
while to get started, and there's not really much investment in the
story or the characters. Some of the characters are mostly there to
provide comic relief, but even that is very hit-or-miss. For the most
part, Sam Worthington played his role pretty good, a fine example of
under-rated acting. It's nothing great, but it's far from abysmal. Liam
Neeson was also rather enjoyable to watch, but hey, it's Liam Neeson.
Everybody else isn't particularly interesting, but they're not
unforgivably boring or useless. There's also a small romance in the
film between Worthington and a female side character, but it comes off
as pointless and un-needed. I just don't see why the majority of
popcorn action flicks require a relationship when we go to see
explosions and amazing special effects, it's just not necessary.

Flaws aside, I enjoyed Wrath of the Titans. I am aware of the hate that
this movie is receiving and I can understand some of the quibbles that
one may have against it, but hey, at least it's better than it's
predecessor.
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILER FREE REVIEW

Let me start this right off the bat and tell you it's better than Clash
of the Titans(Even though that's not saying much)However, Wrath of the
Titans supplies enough action set pieces, that you have a good enough
flick that you should check out this weekend. The plot is very simple,
it's set 10 years after the events of the first film where Perseus and
his son fish for a living. Hades and Zeus' son Ares trick Zeus and
capture him. Now, the titans are getting stronger while Zeus is getting
weaker. Perseus has to go to hell to save his father. There are some
pretty cool monsters in this film, like the demons Makhai and the scene
with Kronos is AMAZING. If you're looking for a good time this weekend
and go into this movie with an open mind. Then you will definitely have
a good time watching Wrath of the Titans. 8/10
