
Already drawn to the premise of this film, I had high expectations of
it, and was particularly interested in seeing Blake Lively in the lead
role as a 107 year old eternally young woman. From only seeing her work
in Gossip Girl, which was adequate but not particularly memorable, I
was keen to see what her acting range was like. Not only did Lively
impress me, but the film did also, surpassing my expectations. 

The Age of Adaline is not only visually beautiful, (props to
cinematographer David Lanzenberg) but the story is also. Yes, this is a
romance film, but the evocative story raises questions from the viewer
about life, death, and love. Michiel Huisman is great in his role as a
sensitive romantic who yearns to be close to and understand Adaline -
well done to the writers for creating a male romantic lead who isn't
unrealistically perfect and clich√©. Harrison Ford impressed me greatly,
especially in his scenes with Lively, so much so that I was brought to
tears through a mere look. Ellen Burstyn as Flemming provided a
charming voice of reason for the protagonist. The score was also
wonderfully done, making the emotional scenes all the more powerful,
and the costume designer did very well in allowing the audience to fill
in the time blanks without knowing the era through the narrated dates. 

Overall, a beautifully crafted film with a wonderful story and powerful
performances that will completely captivate the viewers.
<|_=00=_|>
Cast chosen are all well suited to the characters; they performed as if
the story was theirs to share ~ A love story that will test the
assumptions of viewers. 

Enjoyable, well acted, well done. A plausible plot supported by
characters and settings that make plausible more than probable. 

Our preview audience appeared surprised at the chance to see a great
cast in a simple story of love. Laughter because Harrison Ford holds a
mirror to the lives of the audience, and we see ourselves. Blake Lively
never gives us a hint of deviation from her assumed promise. 

Lots of historical fact that interests rather than bores the mind, and
never obscures the journey we're following with the characters. Michiel
Huisman plays innocence with persistence, grace, and a smile; we laugh
and cheer him on. Ellen Burstyn plays a subtle catalyst role. Kathy
Baker always seems to pull the characters together, and none of the
cast can take away our interest from the science and character of
Adaline. I'll see it again, in the theater for the larger than life
characters. Thanks crew, staff, and actors.
<|_=00=_|>
The acting in this I cannot fault, though Adeline has a very low range
of emotions given the material, her demure persona is a sign of the
times in which she was raised. Perhaps it was the stiff upper lip if
the early 20th century? I have never seen the male lead and he suited
his part well.

I watched this with my mother and daughters ( sobbing continued on both
sides with both generations for different reasons, but both centred
around loss). I felt torn, suitably watching this with both
generations, as to what part of the film affected me most. Those with
children and aging parents will understand when viewing this. 

The soundtrack was beautiful and the song played during the most
emotive scenes is both beautiful and haunting enough for me to seek it
out. 

A beautiful movie, which is a little in the fantasy realm in its
explanation behind the mortality/immortality aspect which makes it
almost fairy tale like, but beautifully executed, and gorgeously told.
See it with your mother or daughter, or like I did, both! Take your
tissues!
<|_=00=_|>
I have been looking forward to this film because of the story line.
There are so many things to like about it - the flashbacks are well
done and so believable. The costumes are so fun to watch. I do not
think I have seen Blake Lively act before and I was clearly entranced
by her performance. She carries the film so well and is so quiet and
well done. I liked the actors - Michaeil Haisman is gorgeous and
believable. Harrison Ford - so happy to see him in a movie again - and
he is also believable as the father of Ellis. Elen Burnstyn is
delightful. This story could have been presented in such a different
manner - director Lee Toland Kreiger got it, and it is beautiful
story-telling. I love the last scene.
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent performances, a truly poignant story. See it, you won't be
disappointed.

Director Lee Toland Krieger wisely speeds through the scientific
mumbo-jumbo, treating it as the least-interesting aspect of this tale.
Instead, he focuses on the relationship fallout of Adaline's
predicament. It's a disarmingly affecting film, and very sad at points.
A rumination on loneliness. Cinematically, Krieger serves up numerous
arching, overhead shots and slow-motion sequences. This coupled with
the various time periods tackled gives the picture a buoyant sense of
scope.

Particularly memorable in this is Harrison Ford. After stiff and stagey
efforts in movies such as "42," Ford delivers a beautifully conflicted
performance as a man trying to reconcile his past.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie touched me personally at a number of levels, because I lived
in San Francisco, "the one that got away" looked a lot like B.L. and my
(very happy) marriage is like the one H.F. portrays. I found B.L.
hauntingly beautiful, and this story a tapestry of feelings unfolding;
especially her surrender versus flight. Her encounter with H.F. from
out of her past is powerful for both characters. And I thought the
resolution of her immortality was quite a pleasant surprise that made
me smile after being teary-eyed most of the movie. The last few minutes
of the movie are especially beautiful if you are a romantic like me.
This is a sweet movie that you will really enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
No wise man ever wished to be younger." Jonathan Swift

Walking into the cinema... Intrigueing is the word that comes to mind 
with The Age of Adaline. It is hard to categorise this film. Is it 
fantasy, a romance, a philosophical exercise, or a combination of them 
all? 

Overall rating: 3.5 stars Cinematic value: 3 stars Big Questions value: 
4 stars

What would you do if you were to remain 29 years of age for the rest of 
your life? Some might think that this would be ideal, while others 
would consider this to be a horrifying experience. This is the life of 
Adaline Bowman (Blake Lively). Through a series of fantastic phenomena, 
she has remained as a 29 year old for eight decades. She has to 
experience a life of solitude and separation, because she cannot age 
with those that she is closest to in her life. Her life is veiled in 
secrecy, until she meets Ellis Jones (Michiel Huisman), a 
philanthropist who ignites her passion for life and unknowingly he is a 
link to her past. What seems to be an innocent weekend away, becomes a 
crossroads for the truth and a chance for her to decide what she will 
do with the rest of her life. 

I will admit it, a good romance is a joy to experience. Romances may 
not be my favourite genre, but they have their place in cinematic 
history. The Age of Adeline will not win awards for groundbreaking film 
making, but it does fill a void in this year's celluloid offerings. It 
is a good, straight forward, romantic journey. Even with the fantasy 
element of eternal youth, this was a good film for the romantic at 
heart. It can get a bit sappy, but it is a satisfying tale. Indie 
director Lee Toland Krieger (Celeste and Jesse Forever) is able to 
incorporate a level of geekiness to satisfy any male audience members 
without sacrificing the primary storyline. His measured style develops 
a believability of this inventive story. Kreiger hearkens back to the 
beautiful romances of bygone eras, where subtlety and magnificent 
cinematography aid in delivering a beautiful romance. With the same 
level of measured performance, Blake Lively is excellent as the lead. 
She portrays the melancholy of a woman who lives with the mind of an 
elderly woman trapped in a perpetually young body. She allows herself 
to fall for Ellis, who is an old soul in a young man's body. Huisman 
brings a depth of character that makes this relationship right for both 
of them. One of the challenges of decade jumping films is the ageing of 
key characters, but Kreiger manages to make this element convincing. 
From the excellent supporting performances from Harrison Ford and Ellen 
Burstyn to the young actors that portrayed them in earlier decades, 
these characters were convincing and do not cause any distraction. 
Admittedly, the unfortunate component of watching this genre is the 
anticipation of sappiness or the inevitable tragedy. The Age of Adaline 
is a romance and contains some of these inevitable trappings, but due 
to the melancholy of the lead character and the control she has to 
shoulder for eight decades, this tale contains the bitter sweetness 
needed to move beyond the syrupy elements of many good hearted 
romances. Which leaves the verdict that Kreiger delivers an appealing 
and enjoyable romance. 

Before the opening sequence, this romantic adventure provides some of 
the best discussion points in recent cinema. In our era of desired 
eternal youth or the desire to merely appearing young, The Age of 
Adaline allows the audience to see the curse that this gift can be on 
anyone's life. It helps that Blake Lively is an attractive woman and 
manages to not experience any disfiguring accidents in her one-hundred 
and seven years. Which could cause a level of disbelief in the story, 
but does not become a consideration. Her pain seems to come from being 
attractive to most men, but she cannot allow herself to respond to 
their advances and she is only is allowed to be close with her dog, 
Reggie. Thoughts move from eternal youth to eternal life. Her 
melancholic spirit is shown in her awareness of this life that she 
remains trapped in. There has to be more as death occurs all around 
her, but she seems to be eternally trapped. She maintains a mental 
strength to not seek death as the answer to her pain, but death does 
add to the shadow that envelops her life. If that is not enough, 
Adaline has to lie and say farewell to all who come into her life. Her 
life is a moral conundrum and explains why she seems to be a shell of a 
woman throughout much of the film, until she is eventually allowed to 
tell the truth and live the life she never thought she could live. The 
Age of Adaline proves to be more than a romance. It is a philosophical 
journey packaged as this year's romance. 

Leaving the cinema: Is it ironic that a film of ageless beauty would be 
packaged in the film making style of yesteryear? This felt like a 
romance from the past, but will meet modern audiences with a fresh view 
on romance. This is a film that can bring out the romantic in anyone. 
It may have a sappy element, but it is satisfying and may make the date 
night dinner conversation deeper and more meaningful.

Reel Dialogue: What are the bigger questions to consider from this 
film? 1. Would you want to be forever young? (Ecclesiastes 12:1, 2 
Timothy 2:22) 2. Is an eternal soul better off being in heaven than on 
earth? (John 14:2, Philippians 3:20)

Written by Russell Matthews based on a five star rating system
<|_=00=_|>
At the beginning the movie seemed quite interesting, but then the plot
happened. It's not that i expected the most beautiful love story of all
time, but at least something decent. The "scientific explanation" was
silly and unnecessary. I mean lightning- how original, nobody ever
explained super powers with lightning. A magical potion or door would
have been more believable. Then- the police officer who calls the FBI
immediately, just because a 45 year old women looks like 30-35?! I mean
come on.. It's not like she was 70 at the time. Even without plastic
surgery, there are people who look younger. And even then, nobody
thought, that it could be a typo or something? Then, the love story
with the long- hair- guy. It's just stupid. I can't even say it's
clishee, because clishee would have been better. They tried to make the
characters seem interesting and their dates so original, but the lack
of chemistry, emotions and a normal human conversation made those
scenes look completely implausible. I would rather see them go to a
date to a fast food restaurant and talk about politics and the weather
than this. What do we know about the guy? He's a stalker, he likes
unusual girls, because- omg, she's reading braille and isn't blind,
that's so cool! And he's rich, of course. His lines to hit on her were
like he found them by googling "interesting facts to say on a date". It
seemed like they didn't talk about anything personal, anyone's life,
world views, likes and dislikes, but about random knowledge you find at
the end of the newspaper. And she..after living for such a long time,
it would be nice to see, not just how much random stuff she learned,
but to see her wisdom or the typical old people's grumpiness, but no.
She acts like she's 20 and just started her life and didn't figure out
how to live with someone- not because she will loose him, but because
the FBI scared her with their unsuccessful one time visit. And after a
week or a month she loves the stalker guy?! The love story with her
father was way better and had some real potential. I mean the guy named
a comet after her! If that's not romantic..no. I would have rather seen
her run away with him. But the young looking pretty girl can't ditch
the young pretty guy for an old guy. And then, the electricity undoing
her super power just because electricity is magical- what to say?! The
last scene was hilarious- the narrator really had to explain to us,
that a grey hair means she's getting old :D Just in case stupid people
won't get how brilliant the movie really is. As far as the lines and
chemistry goes, the narrator could have talked through the whole movie
and explain to us how they loved each other and how touching everything
is.
<|_=00=_|>
My initial interest in the movie wasn't very high from the previews but
the offer of a free screening lead me to study the preview a little
more. I decided to order the free tickets if they were still available
in my area. I was blessed to get 2 tickets. I was pleasantly surprised
with the film throughout and my friend enjoyed it also. I liked it so
well that I plan to buy the bluray when it comes out. I like to collect
nice romances for future reviewing. I initially thought a few
characters didn't look much like their parents but as the movie played
out it was not a problem for me. Their acting was so good I could over
look that. Blake Lively did an excellent acting job in the movie. I was
impressed with Harrison Ford's acting in the movie. In summary I
enjoyed the movie very much. I enjoyed the clean crisp time period
photography. I would consider this a good date movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Ever wonder what its like not to age? I know I have, but I never can
grasp all the factors that come about with immortality, especially in
terms of love and relationships. Well my friends, we have the good
fortune to get movies to give us a glimpse, and this weekend it is in
the form of the Age of Adaline. This romantic drama has some potential
to be an interesting romance story, but one must heed caution when
watching trailers. So let's get started on this review shall we. 

When I said interesting, I really meant it, as Age of Adaline is a
unique story that centers on immortality. Our heroine doesn't drink
some mystical potion, or undergoes some futuristic operation, but is
somehow mutated by a rogue lightning bolt striking the river. All of
this is explained in the first 10 minutes, in a hasty montage that sums
up her life, which while time efficient left me a little robbed. I
didn't want them to take forever, but a gradual build up of her life
pre accident would have given this tale some more depth. Oh well it
means we get to the romance aspect of the story faster. This film's
relationships were a bit awkward for me, and a bit hastily developed at
first. Her main romance goes nowhere due to fear, and only a few cute
dates give us any hope something will happen. But then movie magic hits
like lightning and expedites the romance to warp speed. 

Regardless of how fast we get to it though, the romance in this movie
is not the greatest. Sure it has its cute moments, emphasizing
creativity and thoughtfulness in dating, with a little historical twist
in it. There is some heartfelt, overemotional dialogue thrown in to
feign love, but this movie didn't sell me in their relationship.
However, Adaline's past runs interference into the relationship, and
takes precedence over her life at hand. Fortunately what love we did
see was not portrayed as superficial sex that many modern movies like
to show. 

The movie's main focus instead is about living life and pushing past
your fears, especially ones addressing the concept of life. Age of
Adaline has some really depressing moments and left me feeling down in
the dumps. Many of the problems she flees from may get in your head,
but do provide some good food for thought and philosophical
discussions. Yet you will see some overdramatic, spanned out plot lines
in this movie that start to grow stale. 

Story aside, the editing of this movie is decent. Despite the 100
minute running tme, they still had some issues in terms of pacing and
extra scenes. I felt the film cuts through a lot of Adaline's history,
choosing to relive her moments via hastily done flashbacks and narrator
monologues. Other times it drags on an issue, moving like molasses down
a hill to get to the conclusion. As for extra scenes, well a few morbid
parts could have been snipped out of the final cut, or at least
replaced with some happier moments in the grand scheme of things.
Despite all the extra fluff, one consistency is the camera work, which
captures the emotion of our characters to illicit the intended
response. Each age is well designed, makeup, costumes, and scenery all
well combined to bring the world to life. 

However the acting may be the component that this movie relies on the
most. Blake Lovely, I'm sorry, Lively was indeed a beautiful addition
to this movie in both acting and physical qualities. She carried a
pristine poise that mimicked the personalities of the attitudes back
then, and yet she was somehow humble. Lively shed a good amount of
tears in this installment and put her somber emotions to good use,
though I do wish they had given her character a broader emotional
spectrum. Her beauty helps complete the picture and the outfits her
wardrobe department designed will distract many from her monotone
character. As for the other actors they do their parts well, but they
are primarily supportive roles surrounding Adaline's story. Michiel
Huisman does the job of a persistent romantic well. He's got that nice
guys charm and humor that makes him likable, but he is a bit of a bore
in terms of romantic interests. His backstory is flatter than a sheet
of paper, and his struggles are practically absent in this tale,
overshadowed by another relationship stuck in Adaline's head. As for
Ford, his acting is just as strong as ever, but his role was limited in
this tale, again constantly interrupted by chaotic slew of Adaline's
mess. 

Age of Adaline is a good drama that has a nice change of pace from the
sea of mundane plots this genre has recently taken. Adaline's journey
is interesting and emotional, but the romance aspect fell through for
me. In addition the tale wasn't the most exciting thing, and combined
with a depressing plot, was not a fun trip for me this weekend. Is it
worth a trip to theater? Can't say it was, but might be good for a
girl's night out soiree. My scores for Age of Adaline are: 

Drama/Romance: 7.0 Movie Overall: 6.5
