
'Captive' is about a group of tourists abducted by al-Qaeda-linked Abu
Sayyaf from a resort on Palawan in 2001. They were shipped to Basilan
in the far south, and then herded through the jungle for over a year.
Some paid ransom money calculated on their profession and country of
origin, and were subsequently released, some died from strain or
disease, some were killed by Abu Sayyaf, some by the army in repeated
rescue operations, of which the last (and bloodiest) succeeded.

The film drew a lot of fire from the press, first of all because it was
rejected by both Cannes and Venice, which created a somewhat toxic
whiff - after all, Cannes built Mendoza's reputation with his win for
'Kinatay', so how bad could his first decently budgeted film be? As it
turns out, it's not half as bad as could be expected. Mendoza avoids
two mistakes he could have easily made: first of all, the camera isn't
glued to Isabelle Huppert's face, even though she's the first star he's
working with; he allows her character to gradually emerge from the
group of hostages, which becomes decimated by disease, ransom payments,
forced marriages as a shoddy excuse for rape, and deliberate execution.
And second, he does not sweeten his barren naturalistic photography one
bit because of the scale of the production; 'Captive' is every bit as
Cinema Verit√© as his earlier films. If anything, the money allows for
some disjointed wildlife intersections, which however fulfill a
dramatic purpose when, for instance, a lizard is seen hacked in two by
a machete, instead of the head of a hostage being chopped off.

This kind of film language won't convince those who have their
established ideas about what a Filipino film looks like - and to
illustrate how fixated these ideas have already become, another section
of the Berlin Festival screened the film industry parody 'The Woman in
the Septic Tank'. In that context, I would count myself among those who
appreciate that Mendoza, who established these conventions, tries to
move onwards stylistically.

However, the story structure certainly puts the viewer's patience to
test. There's zero background information about Abu Sayyaf and the
domestic conflict in the Muslim populated islands in the south of the
country. In one scene, villagers feed hostages and captors alike and
receive some money for their troubles, making it seem that they are
somewhat regarded as freedom fighters, whereas in reality they also
raided and killed Muslim locals. In the film, Islam is used as an
'excuse' for criminal actions, which is probably not so far from the
disturbed mindset of these people, but leaves room for controversy.

The photography's realism makes the differences between truth and
fiction appear a bit questionable: Why, for instance, was the American
hostage who was later beheaded cast with a Caucasian actor instead of a
Hispanic one, as it was the case? Also, the Abu Sayyaf were far more
ruthless in their dealings with hostages, negotiators and villagers
alike - while their brutality comes across, most of them seem strangely
boyish. That Huppert's character is fictitious may be explained by the
logistics of the production, but since much of the story follows
real-life survivor Gracia Burnham's book 'In the Presence of my
Enemies', it feels a bit unfair that her character is sidelined in the
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film as part of the the Competition section of the Berlinale
film festival 2012. Running time was exactly 2 hours, in my opinion
much too long given its contents. On the plus side, we had interesting
shots of the jungle, we met all sorts of small and large animals, and
we observed native ways to cure wounds. It helped us pass the time, yet
a fair bit of editing away some scenes would be helpful in appreciating
this film.

The story is based on the Abu Sayyaf kidnapping (2001) of a group of
tourists from the Dos Palmas Resort in the province of Palawan. One of
them got through the whole ordeal and wrote a book about her
experiences. During the first four days the full group was cramped
together in a small boat. The rest of the journey covers a whole year
finding ones way through the jungle, a seemingly endless series of
moves from village to village.

The first days after the kidnapping exposed linguistic as well as
cultural/religious differences. The latter was clearly demonstrated
when a box full of bibles was thrown overboard, deemed "useless
ballast" by the kidnappers. Another example was when a Christian group
member loudly insisted on burying a fellow member, though they really
had no time for it, and leaving the body behind would have improved
their chances for survival. There were more such cases, each offering
the chance to feel with both sides of the argument.

The journey itself took more than a year. It is difficult to imagine
how a civilized person can survive that long, devoid of any preparation
or training to cope with that environment. The ordeal is not easy to
watch from your comfy chair, from time to time pondering how you would
behave yourself in such a situation, most other times considering
yourself lucky to be at a safe distance.

Starting with small time jumps in the beginning, zooming in on the
group and its cultural differences, it was not more than logical that
time jumps became larger and larger near the end (the last 20 minutes
covered day 157 and day 220).

The hostages are clearly a trade object. Gradually it grew smaller
during the journey, due to ransoms being paid. Some group members were
out of luck, however, because of their homelands (like the US) having a
policy to never comply with ransom demands. And of course there were
casualties, some from fever or after an accident, while others were
killed during encounters with the army because of (mostly failed)
rescue attempts.

All in all, I cannot recommend this film. I appreciate the effort made
in showing us the jungle, the people living there, and various strange
(to us) beliefs and traditions we observe. No effort at all is made to
clarify the relationships with the army (indeed rescue attempts, or is
there more to it?). Similarly, I wondered how the kidnappers are
regarded by the inhabitants of the successive villages they visit
(friend, enemy, neutral?). Or are they simply tolerated while they
carry the most gun power? And which rule in which religion or culture
deems a forced marriage to be an acceptable alternative for rape? This
may seem a recommendation to increase the running time of this film
even more than it already is, in order to make room for such additional
information. But that need not be, since some scenes can easily be
shortened without missing anything, for example the convoluted way they
occupy a hospital.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie tells the tale of the Dos Palmas Kidnappings (Dos Palmas is
the name of the resort located in one of the Philippines' tourist spots
where the victims were kidnapped) which occurred in Southern
Philippines sometime year 2001 and lasted for several months. Several
victims, foreigners and Filipinos, were held hostage by Muslim bandits,
the Abbu Sayyaf, and brought into captivity in the mountains. 

The movie didn't include the names of the actual victims. But places
like the Dr. Jose Torres Memorial Hospital, which was actually held
under siege, was included in the film. 

The movie didn't really feel "indie" to me, despite the shaky cam, poor
lighting, and unclear audio. Maybe because Brillante collaborated with
some production companies, which made it a bit more mainstream. And the
overall-all feel of the movie really was mainstream. It didn't have the
usual Brillante signature of showing irrelevant random scenes. It was a
total story-telling. This is surprising for someone who would usually
raise her eyebrows to some of Brillante's scenes in his other movies
which are pure RANDOM. The sex scenes, there were none. There was one,
but it wasn't what you would usually see in Brillante's films. It
wasn't explicit. Again, surprising. 

Another reason why it wasn't as "indie" is the presence of some
well-known veteran actors of the country such as Angel Aquino, Joel
Torre, and Raymond Bagatsing. It was probably done without so much
costs by cutting their screentimes, like some characters would just
appear in the second half of the film. Usual indie personalities like
Allan Paule, Sid Lucero, and Mercedes Cabral, reminded me that it was a
Brillante film. I don't think there's anything negative to comment
about the acting part as the other lead actors, especially Isabelle
Huppert, were also awesome. 

I like how the movie was very safe in its content. Note that we are
dealing with one very sensitive topic here, religion, and I can say
that the movie did justice in showing the other side of the so- called
antagonists. They're not really merciless individuals who would shoot
for pleasure, but they were provoked by their demands for autonomy (If
you're familiar with the whole Mindanao situation, there's more to that
but let's leave it at that as of now). The movie showed the other side
of our Muslim brothers, as opposed to the usual perception of them
being heartless. Islam is one religion close to me and seeing how the
movie accurately showed their practices and beliefs merits credit. 

One very strong point of the film is the non-use of the overused "WE
ARE A POOR COUNTRY!" statement shouting in almost all indie films. It's
good they showcased another thing that's also present in the
Philippines: terrorism. *facepalm* Sigh. I can't fault the director
though. They can't possibly paint Philippines in sunshines and rainbows
when reality tells us terrorism is also around the corner. 

The movie is very graphic. There's a scene of beheading but it isn't as
bad as what we see in the news. There's also this scene which deserves
a standing ovation: actual childbirth! It was very graphic, it really
showed how the child went out of the mom's organ. It didn't feel dirty,
it was just brilliant. My stomach plunged a bit, but still brilliant.
And speaking of graphic, there's a close-up of a snake and whatever
tongue-sticking-out thing he does! WTF. I had to rinse my brain at the
thought of what that creature does. I have fear of snakes so I curse
Brilliante Mendoza for that!!! Seriously. 

All in all, I highly recommend this film. It's a good eye-opener.
Heart-warming. Inspiring. Tragic. 

In so many words, I love this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Captive is a film about a long term kidnapping and hostage crisis based
on true events that took place in the Palawan province in 2001. This
drama begins with the hostage takers; members of the Abu Sayyaf, taking
several people at gunpoint and quickly sailing off to their jungle
hideouts. The captives are quickly assessed and their ransom values
determined by their captors who are trying to maximize their profits
and trying to avoid capture. The captives suffer a grueling and
tortuous trek through the jungle with little provisions and no
amenities, while they hope for release or rescue. The rescue option
however is fraught with danger as the captives are often caught in the
crossfire between the government troops and the captors. 

This film thoroughly covers the plight of the captives, but it also
tries to shows us some insight into the minds of the captors as well.
The film portrays the captors as violent of course, but it also
introduces the audience to their ideals and beliefs. In one scene a
captor reads off a set of rules and explains some of the tenets of
Islam. Some of the captors are even shown as hospitable and caring,
providing comfort items to the hostages (blankets, food, and first aid
etc.). One of the captives even starts liking one of the captors,
stating the he was just fighting for his freedom and that he was not
really a bad guy (Stockholm syndrome?). The film also shows us the
realities of the cruelty of the Abu Sayyaf. Some women hostages are
subjugated, being forced to marry the captors in some cases and having
to endure sexual assault. 

One thing I would like to say about the movie is that it was hard to
determine how the common people of the villages felt about the entire
ordeal. In many scenes the militants happened upon a village and asked
to be provided a place to rest and some food. I had a difficult time to
figure out if the villagers were just being hospitable to the
militants, or maybe they were afraid of all of the firepower and the
reputation of Abu Sayyaf. Maybe some villages were sympathetic to the
cause. Either way, the militants usually got what they wanted and tried
to move on before being caught by the government troops. 

The one character that stood out to me was the young fighter that was
befriended by the French female hostage. He was a young orphan and fell
into the band of fighters as he had no family or other options. He was
a fighter for Abu Sayyaf, but he seems young enough that he could
change his ways if only he had a positive influence (non-violent). I
actually hoped that he would survive situation and reform his ways
someday. 

One of the themes of the movie I would like to discuss is that of the
"underdog". Some of the militants in the film are depicted as
sympathetic and almost heroic. The militants endure the same harsh
environmental conditions that the captives are in, and in some ways
their suffering justifies the way they live. In their view they are the
heroes (freedom fighters) against tyranny. The armed struggle (of the
underdogs) is a prevalent theme in Philippine films. Many Tagalog films
depict the same type of asymmetrical power struggle and romanticize the
rebel way of life. Struggle and perseverance are key themes both
depicted by the captors and captives. 

Costet, D., (Producer), Mendoza, B. (Director). (2012) Captive Motion
Picture. Philippines/France: Star Cinema
<|_=00=_|>
This is the very first film by Cannes-winning Filipino director
Brillante Mendoza that I saw in a movie theater. At the outset, I am
going to confess that I do not think I can judge this film very
objectively. Watching this film with all its unsteady camera work made
me very dizzy starting from the 40th minute. From that point, I could
not even look directly at the screen anymore. The shaky camera was
relentless, be it a frenetic battle scene or a quiet personal one. It
certainly did not help that this was a 2-hour long film. My head is
still reeling as I write this review, four hours after the end credits
rolled! This is only the second time a movie made me feel sick, the
first one being "The Blair Witch Project."

The movie was based on the 2001 Abu Sayyaf kidnapping of tourists from
the Dos Palmas Resort in the province of Palawan. Two of the kidnap
victims then were Martin and Gracia Burnham. Gracia survived her ordeal
and wrote a book about her harrowing experiences entitled "In The
Presence of My Enemies." I thought that acclaimed French actress
Isabelle Huppert will be playing her, but it turned out that Ms.
Huppert's central character of social worker Therese is fictional.
Another Caucasian couple played minor characters who seemed to be based
on the Burnhams.

After the abduction scenes in the beginning and four long days of sea
travel, the film became what seemed to be an endless series of hiking
through the jungles of Basilan, commandeering civilian places like a
hospital or school, getting attacked by the Armed Forces, forcing a
ceasefire by asking a victim to appeal, and moving on to the next
destination, where the cycle began again. It became very repetitious.
In between, there would be interludes showing facets of Moslem culture
or nature metaphors featuring wild animals. 

Since I could not look at the screen the whole time because of my
dizziness and nausea, I got confused what happened to various
characters due to the episodic nature of the storytelling. How did the
role of rebel leader played by Raymond Bagatsing become another one
played by Sid Lucero? What was the point of having Coco Martin in a
cameo? His look did not really fit into the film. I felt that was a
little indulgent on the part of Mendoza. 

I fully appreciate the dedicated efforts of cast and crew in filming in
such obviously difficult conditions. However, the final product felt
unwieldy and overstuffed. It seemed like they did not want any shot to
end up on the cutting floor. The subject matter is heavy enough, the
senses need not have been assaulted any much more by the excessively
shaky camera and the very loud explosions! I know Mendoza was most
likely going for added realism for us to immerse into the hostage
experience, but I feel these vertiginous visual and sound effects
should have been reigned in in kinder consideration to the comfort of
the viewing audience.
