
Vanessa was really amazing in this film! It completely shocked me how
good she really was, I wasn't expecting her acting to blow me out of
the water, but she did. Her performance really made the film for me,
with this and the frozen ground I see her going places. Not only her
but the whole cast was really strong. It was a heart wrenching
storyline which, delivered by these amazing and strong actors just
empowered me I guess. I was really looking forward to watching this as
I thought the story line was unique and not clich√© and unlike anything
I've watched before. Also the fact that it was based in a true story
just interested me all the more to watch it and I can honestly say that
I was not disappointed! I would highly recommend anyone and everyone to
watch it! It's a brilliant story with a brilliant cast but Vanessa
easily outshines the rest of the cast, this is her film.
<|_=00=_|>
Gimme Shelter is a touching and moving film, so inspirational that I
think people will want to buy more and more tickets to see it. Even
though a low budget film, Vanessa Hudgens is stunning on her
performance as Apple. She proves that she has completely left her
amateur puppy Disney HSM acting and moved on to bigger future roles
that will certainly give her a lot of career options, maybe an Oscar
too. And why not? In Gimme Shelter, Vanessa Hudgens, as an actress,
portrays all the emotions and characteristics that the Academy of Arts
want to see. I wont be surprised if I see Hudgens taking at least a
nomination for her stunning, breath taking performance. Gimme shelter,
in general, is an indie film that captures all the phases of a
difficult life in the streets of a city. Maybe a little bit of 8 Mile
or Precious, Gimme shelter reminds a bit of these films, but the motion
picture still keeps its originality of story and of course
performances.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is quite believable and Hudgens does a great job, having
actually lived in a real shelter prior to playing the part. I think she
gained a great deal of understanding doing that and it shows in her
part. There are some folks reviewing the movie here who referred to her
going through "Clinton's Village" subsidized programs, which misses the
point of Clinton's Village. Her theory was not based on subsidized govt
programs, rather the need for community and all of us to take an
interest in helping our neighbors, our schools and to be aware of the
folks around us who are either lost or having a tough time. I found
that review a slap in the face of the movie and hate to see how you
preach in your church as a pastor. Another review mentioned that women
and girls should see this. EVERYONE, not least of all MEN should watch
this movie. This Wallstreet dad might have behaved differently had he
known what his daughter went through until she sought out a better life
by finding him. Who knows? Sorry for the rants, but needed to call
folks out on some attitudes. perhaps the mother would not have turned
to prostitution to survive. Many prostitutes are so desperate to
support their kids and it is the only thing they feel they can make it
on because of a lack of "Village help" and support of two parents. Then
they turn to drugs in order to tolerate the abuse and exploitation of
prostitution. It is a vicious cycle and one that mostly affects teen
moms and kids with low self-esteem. The system does not sufficiently
push dad's role and if more men saw this movie, perhaps they would
think twice about abandoning the needs of their children, whether
planned or unplanned. I find the sexist attitude of folks so absurd.
Take responsibility and stop giving the dads a pass!
<|_=00=_|>
My husband and I went to see Gimme Shelter on opening night. We are
happy to say it was more than we were hoping for in the telling of this
true story. Through so much hardship, sadness and pain, the beautiful
young lady inside Agnes (Apple) emerges when love, respect and hope are
offered to her. The performance by Vanessa was outstanding! I didn't
know who she was before seeing the movie. The movie drew us right into
it! We wanted to reach out and help her! We really like James Earl
Jones and were glad to see him play the role of the Catholic priest. We
are recommending this movie to everyone we know and plan to go back and
see it again as well as buy it on DVD! Thanks to the producer of this
excellent movie and to the theaters that are showing it around the
country!
<|_=00=_|>
"Lord, when did we see you hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked,
or sick, or in prison, and didn't help you?" Matthew 25:44

This is a profound film which explores the bonds we share even with
those we prefer to ignore. A film which celebrates our common humanity
through a story of suffering. It's a gritty, heart-wrenching depiction
of how impersonal and uncaring we can be. 

The major film studios will not like this film. This is not their
product. This is an independent film, part of the new cinematic
democracy that threatens their historical control over the industry.

The mainstream movie theaters will not like this film. This is not a
popcorn film. Concessions sales may remain flat. 

Viewers who prefer light fare will not like this film. It is not a safe
film. It's an engaging film that deals with real human truths. It's
about fallen men and women who are unloved and unloving. Men who fail
to love and protect women. Men who hurt and exploit women. Women who
become broken and brutal. Women who become cold and heartless. And it's
about people who choose to love.

"For I know the plans I have for you," declares the Lord, "plans to
prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future."
Jeremiah 29:11-12 

The film has an incredible cast, starring Vanessa Hudgens, Brendan
Fraser, James Earl Jones and Rosario Dawson.
<|_=00=_|>
i was expecting a tear-jerker and i got one.

the movie follows 16yr old Apple on her journey to find hope and peace
and she finds it in an unlikely place. Vanessa Hudgens' portrayal of
Apple was tender and touching and over-the-top at times but still very
moving - and believable. Rosario Dawson appeared in a way i've never
seen, not just physically, but so emotionally disturbing i felt a
visceral reaction when she was on screen. Brendan Fraser was
heartbreakingly good in this. when I thought I would dislike his
character, I actually ended up loving him. the rare glimpse of James
Earl Jones was like a balm in this emotional whirlwind. everyone played
so well.

i went to see this with mom and girlfriends. i recommend it highly for
girls' nights out or group bonding of any kind. it is a special film
about a special group of people in our world. well done.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never seen Vanessa before but after watching Gimme Shelter I am
a fan. This was a very hard movie to watch all the actors did a great
Job on making feel so real. There was not one angle or part where I
thought this moving was lacking something. Everyone involved did a
great job. I was on the edge of my seat and filled with emotion the
whole time. I would say Vanessa is Oscar worthy but really I think she
did better then any Oscar winner and its not good enough for her or the
movie. The movie grabbed me within the first ten minuets never leaving
me with a dull moment. I would like to see more true stories like this
and I am looking forward to Vanessa's next film.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this with my girlfriend and I was definitely surprised.
Didn't expect that out of Vanessa Hudgens. She had me invested in her
within minutes. Great performances, great story. Very uplifting and
emotional while touching on many societal issues. Refreshing to see
there are still films out there that are grounded by real life
tragedies that happen in our country every day and being brought to the
attention of the people. I was very impressed at what what attempted
and achieved with this movie. Didn't feel forced or self-indulgent. It
really seemed like the film makers were truly trying to bring to light
the stories of woman that go through situations similar to Apple's. And
I also read somewhere that they had real women from shelters acting in
the film. I personally just think that's so awesome to have people that
have struggled in those circumstances be able to come in and help with
the story being told. My hats off to the makers of Gimme Shelter.
Definitely worth checking out
<|_=00=_|>
Not very often does a movie come out that is as powerful and emotional
as this one. This movie reveals the pain, confusion,hopelessness and
true brute reality many teens and young women live out today. But also
there are organizations with the compassion from the victims to help
each other survive the ordeal. The movie reveals that showing the
mother a photo of the child in the womb and hearing the heartbeat can
help the mother understand that life is important and any cost. This
has great acting and is not to be confused with some low budget
production. But the showing all angles of the family perspective is
very important to understand the whole situation. Showing both parents,
new children and wife in the Fathers life. Wanting more government
assistance in the abusive mothers life and her physical abuse is also
displayed. Don't be afraid to see this truth of life, learn and help
out the situation.
<|_=00=_|>
"Maybe you're exactly where you need to be." Apple (Hudgens) is a
pregnant teenager who escapes her abusive mother (Dawson) and goes to
New Jersey in search of her father. After she finds him things don't go
as planned. Neither him or his wife think Apple should have the baby so
they bring her to a clinic. Knowing that isn't what she wants Apple
runs from there and winds up homeless living on the streets and out of
garbage until she is taken to a shelter for young pregnant women.
Finding that place changes her entire life. After watching the trailer
for this I thought I was prepared for how heavy the movie was gonna be.
I wasn't. The movie is hard to watch in some parts and knowing that
this is based on a true story makes it that much more powerful. The
best part and the reason to watch though is Vanessa Hudgens. She so
inhabits this character that you forget it's her. She is in a movie
with Rosario Dawson, Brendan Fraser and James Earl Jones and they all
struggle to keep up with her. The movie does have the feel of Precious
and movies like that so it's not one you can watch over and over but it
should be viewed at least once if for no other reason then to see
Vanessa Hudgens' performance. Overall, a good and powerful movie with a
career making performance by Vanessa Hudgens. I give this a B.
