
In a time when our nation is going through some the most progressive
and long overdue changes in history, a film as timely as "Freeheld"
would be welcomed with open arms and minds from critics and audiences.
Unfortunately, what director Peter Sollett creates, in partnership with
Academy Award nominated screenwriter Ron Nyswaner, is an uninspired,
insipid, and downright cheap take on a same-sex couple fighting for
death benefits.

Starring recently Oscar-crowned Julianne Moore and Ellen Page, the two
manage decent chemistry and maneuver through generic and Lifetime
movie-like lines. The impressive Michael Shannon does his very best to
elevate all the material, showing the if you're talented enough, no
script can hold you back. On the hand, the rest of the cast,
particularly Steve Carell, is so over-the-top, and poorly guided, that
everything that could have made "Freeheld" a spectacular and moving
drama, is quickly transformed into a distorted and tragic version of
the Oscar-winning short that the film is based on. The most novice
filmmakers could have created something more gratifying.

"Freeheld" tells the story of New Jersey police lieutenant, Laurel
Hester (Moore), and her registered domestic partner, Stacie Andree
(Page). When Laurel is diagnosed with terminal cancer, both battle to
secure Hester's pension benefits.

After just winning her long overdue Academy Award for last year's
"Still Alice," the excitement and anticipation for Julianne Moore's
next role was at an all-time high. Moore, as we come to expect, commits
firmly to the role of a dying woman. Reminiscent of performances like
Hilary Swank in "Million Dollar Baby," Moore dives into her psyche,
offering her soul to a woman who lived her life with secrets, and
became alive in her later years. While Nyswaner's script offers little
insight into Laurel and Stacie's love, outside of montages and cancer
treatments, Moore finds her way through the pitfalls to come out on the
other side intact. Page, who was a strong voice in getting the picture
made, is relegated to crying and awkward ticks. Several instances, we
are led to believe that "this scene" will be "her scene" where she gets
the chance to let loose and show us what she's all about. Once again,
Sollett's plain and boring direction quickly cut her every scene short,
and offer no room to explore her character's surroundings and feelings.
It's a terrible waste of talent.

Michael Shannon delivers a competent and layered performance as Dane,
Laurel's cop partner. He finds the humanity and conflict in Dane's
misunderstanding about Laurel's lifestyle and later in the fight for
equality. He's the film's key positive note. Carell's over-the-top
yelling and mannerisms is among the worst acting examples seen in 2015.
It's as if Sollett decided to let "Michael Scott" from "The Office" run
amok on the set because that's all that Carell manages to evoke. One
year after a career-topping work in "Foxcatcher," I'm embarrassed that
this is his next venture for the world to behold.

Even down to the cheesy score by Hans Zimmer, nothing about "Freeheld"
sings. It lays dormant in a small courtroom, where anger and
inspiration are supposed to fly but lies lifeless among the picket
signs and Josh Charles' snarls. I was sincerely hoping for something
better, actually something magnificent; too bad there's not enough
vision to bring this powerful story to life.
<|_=00=_|>
While Julianne Moore needs to find more roles outside of playing older
women that audiences passively watch deteriorate physically and
mentally, she's so engrossing in such roles and sympathetic without
being pitiable that there are no other actresses I would rather see in
such roles. After completely commanding the screen with a
heartbreaking, true-to-life performance in "Still Alice," Moore returns
with an equally devastating performance in "Freeheld," concerning a
veteran detective named Laurel Hester, who is dying from terminal lung
cancer with her dying wish that her pension be granted to her same-sex
partner.

Under New Jersey Domestic Partnership Law, however, this request cannot
be granted to state employees and Laurel's appeal is scrapped by the
ruling of five state freeholders. As Laurel becomes increasingly
sicker, her partner Stacie Andree (Ellen Page), a significantly younger
woman who works as a car mechanic, tries to manage her increasingly
difficult treatments. Meanwhile, Laurel's longtime detective partner
Dane Wells (Michael Shannon) works to help further Laurel's case by
showing up at the town hall meetings where the freeholders are present,
in addition to accepting the services of Steven Goldstein (Steve
Carell), a flamboyant, Jewish gay rights activist who serves as the
chairman for Garden State Equality. Goldstein winds up turning the town
hall meetings into Kabuki Theater of sorts with loud protesters
attempting to change the mind of the five representatives that are
holding Laurel and her wishes back.

Moore and Page both give tender performances here, and their time
together on-screen makes up some of the film's most endearing moments.
They embody everything about a couple that one can easily get the wrong
idea about, with their simple request becoming a national issue and
spawning all kinds of domestic controversy that ostensibly stems from
their desire to be noticed. It's easy to think this in theory, but
seeing the film unfold shows that was the furthest thing from their
agenda; this is a couple that wanted to live their lives and go through
their days without any sort of hassle. They didn't want explosive
levels of fame; they just wanted to live their lives and Laurel wanted
her love to be taken care of financially when she died.

Screenwriter Ron Nyswaner is a bit too giddy to get to the meat of
Laurel and Stacie's story, which results in a film that too quickly
gets wrapped up in legal proceedings and courtroom altercations.
Because of this, the true heart and reason for the story - Laurel and
Stacie's relationship - gets lost in a sea of colorful theatrics and
fragrant displays of powerful monologues and montages. In an age where
good, mainstream films about gay rights and gay characters are
difficult to come by, it seems unfortunate that "Freeheld" gets so
wrapped up in colorful and overextended displays of courtroom drama
that is sacrifices its main characters and their relationship with one
another.

In addition, "Freeheld" is fairly standard Lifetime Network fare,
encapsulated by a daunting and thoroughly overbearing score that hits
every emotional scene to the point where pathos are artificially
communicated rather than naturally felt. The important, topical subject
matter at hand and the unanimously strong performances work to distract
from that fact, but the unnatural amount of emotional manipulation
prevails. As stated, Moore is a heartbreakingly real character here,
and Page, who is by her character's side through every step, while
strong in the more emotional scenes, doesn't really have much character
to rely on here. The standout alongside Moore is Michael Shannon, who
is destined to get the shaft here though he deserves to share the
stardom. His seriousness and commitment to Moore's Laurel never feels
like the "white knight" hero nor a bid for self-importance. Per usual,
Shannon plays a real and fascinating character.

"Freeheld," despite its convincing performances and significant story
that really transcends politics to become a human issue, unfortunately
shifts its focus on the characters for a perfunctory and predictable
rehash of courtroom theatrics that cloak the human interest aspect, as
a result. It's the kind of film that really makes you hope the actors
got paid more than the screenwriter at hand, for their commitment and
talents shine through the unfortunately bland writing.
<|_=00=_|>
Seriously people!!! So much hates on this review section. 

At first I'm gonna tell you how i found this movie. I was searching for
a romance movie on internet then i found it. I bought the DVD and
decided to watch it alone, because it's a Homosexual romance (first i
thought it's really a gay lesbian movie ).

But it was more than that. Once upon a time i was homophobic person. I
hated gays and lesbians more than i hate imaginary gods. I after
realized that homosexuals are humans to. They have emotions like strait
people. They love, they cry and they laugh. 

This movie based on a true story and very heart touching. I cried after
watching this movie. Seriously it's very cute romance with saddest
images of gay community. 

People, if you don't like this types of movies then don't watch. But
stop saying nonsense about this. I'm from Bangladesh, a country with so
much ignorance and hate. But i came to light, it's time for you to come
out too. 

After all, it's very emotional movie with complexity. I liked it and
watched twice.
<|_=00=_|>
Even though it treads a lot, and I mean it, a lot of ground that has
been covered by countless films before, especially recently, "Freeheld"
is a well-crafted film that has committed and passionate work behind it
that manage to make it come through a lot more than it could have in
many other situations.

I am baffled by Juliane Moore honestly, that is the first and only
thing that comes off the top of my head thinking of the film. She is so
talented it is ridiculous. Because even if this is a performance that
we have seen so many times before, even by Moore herself last year, she
still manages to make it fu**ing interesting, new and genuine. This
actress is a legend really. Right from her way of moving on screen she
just lives and breathes the characters she is given and makes them so
much more of what is on paper, which is also the main reason this film
succeeds.

Because the film does recycle a lot. Both in ideas and style. It fits
right into the streak of true story films that we have had in recent
years and doesn't really emerge. It doesn't have a personal stamp, it
doesn't really say anything special or new and what it says it really
throws in your face without space for a more subtle or emotional
narrative. As always with true story movies it gets deep into
manipulating your emotions by pulling very, very easy heartstrings and
doesn't make an attempt at trying to make a movie first before a
recounting of the true story.

Yet, you feel that much of it, despite being standard, is truly
heartfelt by the cast. Micheal Shannon is really, really good, Ellen
Page doesn't always find her place on screen, but still manages to come
off as the very good actress she is.

So in the end what we have is something that excites and moves in a way
too conventional and seen-before way, that comes off as a pleasant
experience thanks to its actors' commitment. I will never, ever watch
this film again, but I will also never regret having seen it.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. A touching story based on the
struggles of two people in love  that description fits, but leaves out
the crucial details that make the saga of Laurel and Stacie so poignant
and important. Laurel Hester was an Ocean County, New Jersey police
officer who, like most non-heterosexual people of the era, went to
extremes to conceal that part of her life for fear of personal and
professional reprisals.

We catch up with Laurel (Julianne Moore) and her police partner Dane
Wells (Michael Shannon) while on a drug bust in 2002. This scene is
meant to quickly establish that Laurel is an excellent cop who is fully
trusted by other cops. Soon after, we find Laurel and her god-awful
volleyball skills flirting with Stacie (Ellen Page), a much younger
auto mechanic. The two strike up a romance that leads to buying a house
and jumping through the legal hoops required under the Domestic
Partnership Act.

When Laurel is diagnosed with late stage lung cancer, the battle for
her pension benefits begins as she goes up against the Freeholders who
control Ocean County. While Stacie holds out hope for a cure and full
recovery, Gay activist Steven Goldstein (Steve Carell) swoops in to
generate media attention through protests and chants against the
County. His cause is Gay marriage, while Laurel simply wants equality.
It's an odd differentiation that the movie dwells on, but never quite
explains.

A significant social issue, a stroll on the beach, a pet dog, and a
terminal illness  this sounds like the TV Guide synopsis of the latest
Lifetime Channel movie. Perhaps that was the goal of screenwriter Ron
Nyswaner (Philadelphia, 1993), whose next movie is a sex-change love
story. Fortunately, the extremely talented cast elevates the material
to an emotional level that allows viewers to connect. Those opposed to
the issue include the macho cops from Laurel's own squad room, and the
ultra-conservative faction on the County board  who predictably runs
and hides when the conflict reaches its peak.

Julianne Moore and Ellen Page do outstanding work in allowing us to
accept a romance that at times looks more like a mother/daughter
relationship due to the age difference. Humor is injected with a rare
drywall joke and possibly the first ever on screen tire-rotation
contest. However, this isn't a story for laughs. Rather, director Peter
Sollett (Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist, 2008) shows one of the
many personal stories that have led to the legal authorization of gay
marriage and rights. We view this acceptance through the eyes of
Laurel's partner Dane, and Michael Shannon's low key performance
prevents the role from being too clichéd. The film suffers a bit with
Steve Carell's over-the-top portrayal of the over-the-top Goldstein,
but it does ring true in that desperate times call for desperate
measures.

Certainly the film suffers from technical and script issues, yet the
true story and the emotional subject matter, along with the fine
performances, provide a clear look and reminder of some of the
obstacles faced by good people over the years. Be sure to watch the
closing credits for photographs of the real Laurel, Stacie, Dane and
Goldstein  each (except Laurel, of course) have cameos in the film.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the things that has always annoyed me about people opposing gay
rights laws is the absolute refusal of the opposition especially those
religiously based to recognize romantic love. It's not recognized in
the holy works of religion therefore it doesn't exist. Even in this
film where we are talking about two people in love. Believe the
evidence of your own eyes about Laurel Hester and Stacie Andree in the
film Freeheld.

I worked for NYS Crime Victims Board and in death I came in contact
with a lot of ordinary LGBTQ people who in death had their lives
magnified far more than what they did in their lives. Such is the case
with Laurel Hester who was a detective with the Ocean County Police in
New Jersey. I'm not sure she was closeted, but she certainly was
discreet in her male dominated work place.

Discretion went out the window when she meets Stacie Andree a much
younger woman at a softball game. The two start living together and
while it's not all roses, the commitment is truly there.

And then cancer strikes and what to do about whatever estate Hester
might leave. This story illustrates precisely the problem that LGBTQ
people had before marriage settled the issue permanently. You could in
some places get a domestic partnership certificate and have the
relationship recorded. But it wasn't mandated that private industry and
government recognize it.

Thus was the issue of the film as the town of Freehold and its
governing body would not extend survivor benefits to Ms. Andree. They
were not married, but legally they could not get married. At least
without a lot of agitation and organizing.

Which is where Steve Carrell as Steven Goldstein comes in, leading the
same sex marriage lobbying group. The issue as he says is so neatly
encapsulated in the problem that Hester and Andree face.

Two things I liked about Freeheld that make this a special film. One
was the chemistry between Julianne Moore and Ellen Page as Laurel and
Stacy. They made me believe the love was real.

The second was the scenes among Laurel's police colleagues with her and
among themselves. The differing reactions was a sampling of straight
and male America, quite nicely documented.

Freeheld is a great film showing the need for same sex marriage as few
others have.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a well respected and very competent police
officer in New Jersey, who fights against the county to give her
pension to her partner after she is diagnosed with terminal cancer.

It is really beyond me that "Freeheld" is not getting any award
nominations. It is way more touching, captivating and engrossing than
the other film that is getting a lot of attention. Julianne Moore is
superb in the film. Steve Carell is very good as well, he is likable as
the flamboyant activist. The story is so touching that I literally kept
reaching out for tissues to wipe my tears and blow my nose. I
thoroughly enjoyed the film!
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings from Lithuania.

"Freeheld" (2015) is a movie based on a very real story. I won't go
into plot details, but this is kinda inspirational story. The lead
performance by Julianne Moore is great - you won't expect anything less
from this caliber Oscar winner, and she delivers it. Movie itself isn't
bad by any means, at running time 1 h 40 min it wasn't boring and i
watched it in one sit, and that is not a bad sign. But movie-making
wasn't original or exciting and etc. This is a very averagely told
story, with any emotional deep (script lacks of it) or anything else
for what i could remember this movie for longer then one day after i
finished it.

Overall, "Freeheld" is very watchable movie with no lasting impression.
There are many well known faces in this movie, but they don't have much
to do, script is very flat and predictable, directing is very simple.
This is OK movie for one evening.
<|_=00=_|>
If you've already seen Philadelphia (1993, with Tom Hanks and Denzel
Washington), you'll watch Freeheld and have a feeling of déjà vu.
Written by the same screenwriter, Ron Nyswaner, Freeheld has all the
elements of its predecessor: (i) it's inspired by true events, (ii) the
main character has a disease and enters into a legal battle while sick,
and (iii) there is a lot of prejudice against homosexuals. Despite all
the similarities, Philadelphia is superior, and I'll try to explain
why.

As Tom Hanks in Philadelphia, we see Julianne Moore transforms
physically as the disease progresses. She always gives great
performances, but I felt like I enjoyed it more during the first act,
when she was struggling to keep her relationship a secret. Ellen Page
is also great, especially when she's defied by her future boss who
doesn't believe she can work repairing cars because she's a woman.

Having said that, the best character, in my opinion, is Dane Wells
(Michael Shannon), Laurel's partner in the police who struggles with
himself when he finds out she's gay, but ends up helping her. Steve
Carell is also in the cast and he was very applauded by the audience in
the session I was in. He definitely gave the film a lighter and funnier
tone, since it's clearly a tearjerker.

Philadelphia had a different effect on me because the characters
involved are more complex: the audience knows why Tom Hanks' character
was fired, but the discussion is deeper than "because he's gay". In
Freeheld, on the other hand, we see the "Freeholders" discussing
Laurel's request behind close doors and their decision is simple and
fast, with no further questions (except for Josh Charles' character).
So, even though we all knew the ending to both films before they
actually end, Freeheld felt like an old formula to me. 

Full review: http://wp.me/p5Rk4c-em
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. Just wow. This film truly did affect me in such an undeniable way.
Freeheld is based on a true story that might have already heard of.
This movie tells the incredible true story of Laurel Hester and Stacey
Andree, two woman in a romantic relationship together. They are
together for probably about a year before actually buying and
renovating a house to live in. And they do fix it up quite beautifully
and live in it for a good while, having a domestic partnership
agreement. But when Laurel complains of a pulled muscle, Stacee gets a
little worried and has her go to the doctor and have it checked out.
When laurel gets her doctor report back, she is informed that she does
in fact have stage 4 lung cancer. Laurel's one last simple wish is that
her pension will go to Stacee, just like all her other heterosexual
co-workers have theirs go to their opposite sex spouses. The
freeholders of ocean county deny her request, mainly because it's a
pretty conservative town, and it makes them feel uncomfortable. Let me
just say that Julianne Moore is freaking amazing as laurel Hester, she
really just embodies the role and really shines in it! Also Ellen page,
who just came out as a lesbian herself about a year ago, is awesome as
Stacee Andree, she really gave it her all! Also both of them have such
amazing chemistry in the film, you can feel the undeniable love and
affection they have for one another. When they kiss on screen, it's
almost electric. The love portrayed in the film is just so beautiful
and touching. Also, the script and dialogue is very well written and
engaging. Steve carrel really did his role justice as well, he was
awesome too. The rest of the cast really did a great job as well, they
all really had obvious zeal and passion for this revolutionary project.
I'm so glad that the filmmakers did this moving true story justice when
they adapted it to the big screen. I 100% suggest Freeheld! 10/10. Go
rent it today.
