
Without an iota of irony, Charlize Theron finally uses her intimidating
beauty for pure Machiavellian evil, and the results are fortuitous in
this dark-hued 2011 comedy, the latest collaboration of director Jason
Reitman and screenwriter Diablo Cody ("Juno"). She's absolutely spot-on
terrific playing Mavis Gary, the condescending, hateful high school
girl who comes back to Mercury, her podunk hometown nearly two decades
later. Mavis is no Blanche Dubois-type character whose ladylike beauty
has faded into a gauzy romantic delusion. No, Mavis is still one hot
babe and very much the complete narcissist she was as a teenager,
emotionally stunted despite her relative worldliness having moved to
Minneapolis to become a ghostwriter of a series of teen novels.

It's not surprising she finds success writing for an adolescent
audience since she still defines her life with teenage-level priorities
and fantasies. As she has proved with "Juno", Cody is thoroughly fluent
with this perspective, but the twist is that this time, it's coming
from a jaded 37-year-old woman. Even though Mavis is a divorcée who
lives in a high-rise apartment with a toy dog and can easily get any
man she wants, she is triggered by a birth announcement email she
receives from her high school sweetheart Buddy Slade and becomes
fixated on getting him back all these years later. It doesn't matter
that he's happily married and perfectly content living in Mercury. She
concocts a scheme to make herself so alluring that he will want to run
away with her. Normally, this would be an excuse for broad comedy
machinations, but Theron is so gorgeous that it makes her shameless
attempts at seduction all the more edgily desperate.

It's a narrowly developed plot for sure, but surprisingly, what
enriches the proceedings is the unexpected relationship Mavis develops
with Matt Freehauf, a sad-sack former classmate whose sole claim to
notoriety was being the victim of a hate crime when he was beaten up
and left for dead by a group of jocks who assumed he was gay. He has
been left crippled, living in Mercury with his sister making his own
home-brewed bourbon and putting together mix-and-match action figures.
That Mavis and Matt connect is all the more intriguing since they were
at opposite ends of the social spectrum back in school, and their
present-day bond is also fueled by her obvious alcoholism, a point that
is overlooked by her befuddled parents who wish to think of Mavis as
the flawless pretty daughter of their own deluded fantasies. The story
evolves in the direction you would expect but not before certain
revelations come to light in a tortuous scene at the baby-naming party
Buddy and his sensible wife Beth have with all their relatives and
close friends in attendance.

Beyond Theron's fearless work and intentionally deadpan line delivery,
there is comedian Patton Oswalt's surprisingly affecting performance as
Matt. I only know him from his recurring role as a comical sad-sack on
the sitcom "King of Queens", so it's surprising to see the amount of
texture he brings to this role. As Buddy, Patrick Wilson once again
plays the sought-after himbo, but this time, his character's unshaven,
small-town modesty comes across as more contrite with his character's
feelings toward Mavis left quite elliptical. Elizabeth Reaser ("Sweet
Land") isn't given that much to do as Beth, probably by intention, but
Collette Wolf has a few impactful moments as Matt's insulated sister
still idolizing Mavis after all these years. As he showed with "Juno"
and "Up in the Air", Reitman shows a deft hand with actors playing
flawed characters who try to manipulate their circumstances but fall
short of their vaunted expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer Diablo Cody and Director
Jason Reitman reunite for the first time since their breakout hit
"Juno". In that fine film, we were treated to many optimistic and
sarcastic life lessons from a very likable, and easy to cheer for,
teenage girl. This time around we get the caustic, childlike
self-centeredness of a mid-30's alcoholic sadly trying to recapture the
magic of her high school years as the prom queen dating the coolest
guy.

Ms. Cody and Mr. Reitman deserve much credit for steering clear of the
Hollywood traditions of redemption, remorse, and turning over a new
leaf. In fact, we probably dislike Mavis (Charlize Theron) even more as
the movie ends than we did in the film's first 5 minutes, if that's
even possible. It takes courage as a filmmaker to have a lead character
who is disliked through the entire movie, not just by the people in her
life, but also by the audience. It also takes a special actress to pull
this off. If you saw Theron in her Oscar winning role in "Monster",
believe me when I say that she is equally unsympathetic here ... though
she does commit fewer actual crimes.

This film is erroneously marketed as a smart comedy. While there are
some funny elements, it's difficult to find much humor in someone who
is so unstable and narcissistic. Wisely, the script provides us with
Matt (Patton Oswalt) as the voice of reason. He sees through the Mavis
mask and speaks directly in his attempts to divert her from her plan.
That plan is to break up the marriage of her high school sweetheart
(Patrick Wilson). Oh yeah, he just happens to be happily married
(Elizabeth Reaser) with a newborn baby.

The best scenes of the film are between Mavis and Matt. She is
oblivious to her negative effect on others, while he shoots her
straight while avoiding his own harsh reality. See, Matt was the victim
of a vicious hate crime, which left his leg (and other things) mangled.
His own view of life is why he can see right through Mavis and her
issues. While I so admire the basis of the script, I just believe there
is a missing element. The element of hope and optimism. Heck, even when
Mavis admits she "might be an alcoholic", her parents shrug it off and
change topics. Sometimes crying out for help just isn't enough.

The film is worth seeing for the performances of Theron and Oswalt, as
well as for the unique script. Just don't get tricked into believing
it's some laugh riot with a fairy tale ending. Mavis is a ghost writer
for teen novels, and she writes the latest as she lives this nightmare
of a trip back home. My only real question ... is she mature enough to
write for teens?
<|_=00=_|>
When Jason Reitman and Diablo Cody struck gold with "Juno" in 2007,
they did so with a rare combination of contemporary wit, quirkiness and
heart. Their four-year reunion in "Young Adult" won't be nearly as
heralded, but it might arguably be a better film. 

Although ironic when juxtaposed with its main character, a 37-year-old
who hasn't gotten over her high school sweetheart, Reitman and Cody
display obvious evidence of maturation. The subject and humor are
decidedly darker, and the emotional energy more raw and challenging. 

Charlize Theron stars as Mavis Gary, perhaps one of film's most
hopelessly pathetic protagonists. Before giving the opening credit
sequence its cue, Reitman puts Theron to work and paints a clear
picture of spiraling drunken loneliness, reality TV and apathy toward
responsibility. Appropriately, she's a young-adult fiction writer for a
dwindling book series who's also a former prom queen. Theron is perfect
for the role with her combination of in- concealable beauty and
dramatic prowess. Mavis never becomes a caricature under her watch.

Unable to get past the fact that her high school boyfriend Buddy Slade
(Patrick Wilson) just had a baby, Mavis flees her depressing cyclical
lifestyle in Minneapolis for her home town of Mercury, Minn. with the
intention of winning him back.

Mavis' delusional and deceitful quest to be a home-wrecker proves
maddening through much of the film at the slow-burn pace Reitman has
dictated, and it becomes obvious that at some point the bubble on her
misguided journey will burst into an ugly mess. Yet despite this
foreseeable direction, the climax proves stirring and not without a set
of surprises.

Adding to the complexity of Mavis reclaiming her past is Matt (Patton
Oswalt), a former classmate she barely noticed because they were miles
apart on the social spectrum. The two bond over their appreciation for
(or dependency on) bourbon, and their relationship allows Theron's
character a chance to blow off steam, albeit irresponsibly. 

Mavis eventually remembers Matt as the "hate crime kid" because he was
brutally beaten to the point of being disabled in high school at the
hands of some jocks who thought he was gay. He serves as a strong
comparison point for Mavis' high school experience throughout the film.
Oswalt's wit also matches well with Cody's style and Matt actually
turns into one of the better depictions of a disabled character
probably ever. Other than the incident that caused it, we're not asked
to sympathize excessively with his condition, nor do Mavis' snarky
remarks about it come across as rude. 

Cody's dialogue is much more restrained this time around; "Juno" is
eons funnier as a result, but the sacrifice of laughs allows us to
focus on the film as a character study of a woman who hasn't quite
learned how to be an adult. The script's only deficiency comes from a
crater- sized hole in Mavis' history. "Young Adult" deserves praise for
being a film about living in the past that contains not a single
flashback, but knowing more about Mavis' divorce and how she came to
break up with Buddy the first time could have significantly informed
the story, especially as to why Mavis willfully lives her life as the
trainwreck it clearly is.

The film's climax helps a bit in this regard, and Mavis' epiphany
avoids being cliché despite the obvious "appreciate what you have"
motif. Part of the message oddly suggests that small- town folks lead
purposeless lives for the sake of achieving some kind of blissful
stasis, but at the same time the idea that all of us are broken people
that need to affirm and trudge forward  not backward  with our
various blemishes, will surely resonate.

~Steven C

Visit my site! moviemusereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
This film is highly recommended.

Finally a holiday movie comes along that dares to ask, " Can a high
school prom queen steal her happily married ex-boyfriend from his wife
and newborn child and find true love? " From the team that brought us
the classic comedy, Juno, comes the wickedly entertaining, and to some,
offensive Young Adult. 

Directed by Jason Reitman and written by Diablo Cody, this dark comedy
explores the aspirations of a beautiful, vain, and selfish woman as she
schemes to breakup a marriage and reclaim her former sweetheart, Buddy.
Now divorced, Mavis Gary ( Charlize Theron ), a ghostwriter of teen
literature conveniently found in the YA section of bookstores
everywhere, has never grown up and never had the life she felt destined
to have. ( After all, she was voted Best Hair in her high school
yearbook! ) Her life is in ruins, an eternal victim of herself. She
decides to return to her small hometown hoping to snare her former
sweetheart ( nicely downplayed by Patrick Wilson ) and with that in
mind, live some of the glories of her past life. As Mavis mentions in
one scene, "Love conquers all. "Haven't you seen The Graduate? " She
lives in a fantasy world, clouded by booze.

Giving her a reality check about her plans is a dweeb from the past,
Matt Freehauf ( Patton Oswalt ), whom Mavis meets at a local bar. She
doesn't so much rekindle their friendship as she never had time for him
before, just not in her league back then. "Oh, you're that hate crime
guy," she says when they meet. Insensitive, yes. That's Mavis, and yes,
Matt was permanently injured in a gay hate crime during his senior
year, although he wasn't gay at all. Shades of irony! ( Not that
there's anything wrong with that, yada, yada!) Alcohol (and there's
plenty in use when Mavis is around ) brings these two lost souls
together, that and Mavis' far- fetched dreaming.

Theron has the difficult role of making such a repulsive and
mean-spirited woman, if not likable, at least, tolerable. She never
tries to ingratiate herself. Instead, she depicts a mean girl caught in
the throngs of arrested development and expects the movie audience to
deal with it. Her acting choices work beautifully inside and out.
Theron uses her expressive beauty and sexual allure to hide Mavis'
twisted and unpleasant traits. Hopefully, this honest and compelling
performance won't turn off Academy voters due to its nasty portrayal of
its anti-heroine. It's a wonderful job of acting.

Oswalt gives a fully dimensional comic portrait of a small town loser
type with bigger dreams. He's living with his sister. He's alone. He's
Mavis' conscience and he's working overtime. He's the voice of reason (
and the sensible voice of the movie audience as well. ). Oswalt plays
his character as an endearing slug, a man-child full of sage advice and
bitter disappointment. It is a finely honed comic performance. 

Cleverly scripted, Young Adult is filled with smart one-liners that
advance the action and are keeping with their flawed characters. Yet
the film carries with it a more serious tone, not the laugh-a-minute
movie one would suspect from the trailer. The characters and their
situations verge on the real with the comically surreal. In an
uncomfortable but pivotal scene, Mavis addresses Buddy's married life
with consoling words and advice that " we can beat this thing together"
and leave his KenTacoHut world behind. Cody's sharply observed and
cynical view of small town life is imbued in her characters and may be
distasteful to some moviegoers, although I found this film quite
amusing and droll. The only objection to the film was in two of the
film's final scenes ( which were effectively done but inaccurate to the
characters' true motivations and actions).

Reitman is again drawn to damaged characters in his leading roles as he
had successfully done with films like Juno and Up in the Air. He is
relentless in his ability to make such complicated people completely
fascinating as they free fall into despair. He makes their journey
filled with ironic and satirical possibilities, making the negative
positively comic in tone.

Young Adult resists the sweet rosy side of life. It humorously embraces
the sad fatalistic notion of our everyday existence, supplanting upbeat
and unattainable desires with a refreshingly downbeat sensibility. And
that's seems very grown-up to me. GRADE: B+

NOTE: Visit my movie blog for more reviews: www.dearmoviegoer.com
<|_=00=_|>
Jason Reitman and Diablo Cody have been kind of hit or miss for me or
at least that's what I like to think. I didn't enjoy Juno nearly as
much as everyone else seemed to while Jennifer's Body, while not great,
may have been better received on my end than what most give it credit
for mostly because I have such a soft spot for horror. On the other
hand though, Up in the Air was fairly fantastic all around. With that
said, the main thing attracting me to Young Adult was the fact that
Patton Oswalt had a rather big supporting role. Despite the fact that
Charlize Theron has done so many things since and has won an Oscar,
films like The Astronaut's Wife and The Devil's Advocate only come to
mind whenever she's featured in anything which isn't flattering at all.
So there was kind of this sense of dread going into Young Adult, but
was it justified? The short answer is no, but it doesn't completely
blow you away either.

There was an Entertainment Weekly article a few weeks ago where Theron
said she aimed to not only be a mean-spirited individual, but also
easily relatable as well. That's the trickiest part with a character
like this. Anyone can be cold or act black hearted, but doing that
while also displaying qualities that make you feel sorry for them
and/or feel like something you went through in your life is something
special. Imagining anyone else in this role is practically impossible,
as well. The entire premise seems to be built around Theron. She seems
to be playing herself or at least a slightly exaggerated version of how
she is in real life. That more than likely contributes to the movie
working as well as it does.

One of the other great things about the movie is that it's mostly
unexpected. Young adult fiction writer Mavis Gary (Theron) currently
lives in Minneapolis, Minnesota but decides to return to her small
hometown of Mercury after receiving an email from her high school
boyfriend Buddy Slade (Patrick Wilson) welcoming his first child into
the world. Mavis somehow thinks that her and Buddy are meant to be
together and despite Buddy being happily married and having a daughter
that he loves dearly, Mavis thinks they can work past that to make
things right between them. The outcome of the events is probably pretty
predictable, but the relationships in between unfold in a way that you
probably don't see coming. I'm mostly referring to Mavis and Matt
Freehauf's (Patton Oswalt) friendship as it goes in a direction that
feels far too human for such a superficial individual like Mavis.
Oswalt also seems to be playing an exaggerated version of himself as
well as he makes full use of his geekiness. The Pixies shirt was also a
nice touch. But Young Adult is mostly entertaining due to the way it
feels genuine despite revolving around somebody who is as harsh and
selfish as Mavis Gray is.

Young Adult is very dark and downright bleak at times, but that's one
of its most distinguishing traits. You'll more than likely find
something to relate to in Mavis Gray whether it was you who was the
popular kid in school, are just as depressed as she is, think you may
be an alcoholic, or you're a writer, Mavis isn't really in the right
frame of mind and maybe that's the most relatable part of her
character. Charlize Theron and Patton Oswalt share a kind of twisted
chemistry that involves some fairly witty dialogue at times, but is
mostly them dragging the other one through the mud with their words,
which strangely only illustrates how miserable and similar their two
characters are. Young Adult is a very fascinating dark comedy that is
laugh out loud funny at times due to its cruelness, but shines thanks
to its authenticity.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those films you read about and really look forward to;
but, once seen, you realize that, while good, it's not quite worthy of
the build up.

Charlize Theron is quite good and makes the most of the script she has
to work with. As always, hers eyes, facial expression and body language
all help her bring life to the role.

Patton Oswalt also does a star turn as a bit of conscience for
Charlize's character.

The story is well told, albeit a bit of a stretch. For someone reaching
back to her past for a lost love, Charlize's character is quite
believable; it's her long ago beau, Patrick Wilson, that's not quite up
to snuff. Given that these two play off each other for a great deal of
the film, it would be nicer to have had a better performer opposite
her.

That said, it's worth watching, though probably a bit depressing for
many viewers.
<|_=00=_|>
If nothing else, 'Young Adult' is a breath of fresh air. Written by
Juno creator Diablo Cody and director Jason Reitman, YA is like a
distant sequel - if Juno had moved to the city, got married and
divorced and started drinking. 'Young Adult' is darkly funny,
confronting, a bit depressing at times and has a refreshing sense of
realism. It's not afraid to show broken characters battling their own
demons and the mundane and sometimes bleak suburban existence.

Charlize Theron played Mavis, a relatively successful teen fiction
author in Minneapolis who's reached a crossroads. Recently divorced and
struggling to write her latest novel, she receives an email from her
high school flame Buddy (Patrick Wilson) announcing his new baby. Mavis
convinces herself that Buddy still loves her - despite being happily
married to Beth (Elizabeth Reaser)  and goes back to Minnesota to win
him back. Along the way she meets Matt (Patton Oswalt), a short, fat,
reclusive man still emotionally and physically scarred by a hate crime
in high school, who was all but ignored by the younger Mavis despite
being locker-mates. Despite her intentions for Buddy, Mavis and Matt
bond.

The unlikely relationship between Mavis and Matt is, for me, is the
highlight of the movie: Matt sees through Mavis' charade and isn't
afraid to let her know about it, being downright rude at times, he's
not the "Mr. Nice Guy" you may expect. The chemistry between Theron and
Oswalt is brilliant. While they may be worlds apart socially and
physically, their relationship is believable. After "uglying herself
up" for 'Monster', Theron again eschews her glamorous image for the
sake of a role. While Mavis is undoubtedly beautiful, she's clearly
damaged and lonely, clinging onto an imagined ideal of happiness and
completely ignoring reality. Her obsession with Buddy is demonstrated
on her drive to Minnesota: playing an old mix tape in her car, she
repeatedly plays the song that she and Buddy first made love to.

While 'Young Adult' may be a shock to some, that's what makes it so
good. In a climate littered with clichéd, paint-by-numbers rom-coms
with nauseatingly happy endings, its refreshing to see a movie which
tackles the darker side of life.
<|_=00=_|>
Young Adult is a very un-Hollywood comedy and a good thing it is too. I
won't detail the plot as you can read this elsewhere but just to say
that the writing is sharp and intelligent, the comedy nice and dark,
the direction unfussy (so you don't notice it) and the running time
just long enough so the movie doesn't run out of steam. There is no
cute fluffiness (is that a word?) in this movie. 

Charlize Theron is quite brilliant (as she usually is) playing a very
self centred character who is borderline stalker. Co-star Patton Oswalt
is very good as the guy who had a bad break when younger who has had to
learn to live with the life changing consequences. The rest of the
supporting cast are great playing a mix of small town America
characters. 

I seem to have a habit of watching movies in packed cinemas, no
exception here as it was almost standing room only. This always helps
with a comedy because once the laughing starts it spreads and continues
throughout the whole movie. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Young Adult is Diablo Cody's latest utterly refreshing attempt on the
life of a once-famous high school queen who was facing challenges in
her life. The renowned writer of Juno is making a entirely different
attempt here by depicting a mid-life crisis of Mavis Gary (Charlize
Theron) and her return visit to her hometown where she lived when she
was a teenager.

Mavis hated the town, hated everything about it, hated all the people
in it, that was, except Buddy Slade (Patrick Wilson), who used to be
her boyfriend. It didn't take her long to decide that she would return
and rescue Buddy who she thought was a hostage in the deadly town with
his marriage and newborn daughter. She would save herself from the
disappointment from her life, save Buddy from the living hell, and
picked up where things ended, once and for all.

And well, you expected it. Things were not as simple as that; they
never are. So get ready for the adventure in this visit and get ready
to know our Mavis better.

Charlize Theron totally manipulated the role of Mavis, letting the
audience get to know who Mavis Gary really was as the events continued
to unfold. It was a solid, realistic and Oscar-worthy performance that
blew the audience away.

Young Adult is about life, about the past and the present, about why
people are easily stuck in the past and do not see a future ahead of
them. This is about why we should accept the present and look forward
instead of always looking back. It is also more of a drama than a
comedy but still it did give me some laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to imagine just how the producers managed to convince anyone
to back a script so irredeemably humorless, charmless and boring. One
can only assume none of the money people actually read Diablo (Juno)
Cody's screenplay - and believe it or not the direction was worse
again: long pointless shots of the principal sleeping, waking, slobbing
around her nondescript city apartment, shagging nameless strangers met
online, shuffling and scowling thru car parks and department stores in
her tracky-dacks and driving thru desolate urban landscapes . 

I found myself disliking Mavis, the principal character played by
Charlize Theron - from the first shot. To suggest that her flaws were
in any way a matter of immaturity - 'Everyone gets old. Not everyone
grows up' - is an insult to young people and immature people
everywhere. Not immaturity but apathy, arrogance, a puzzling sense of
entitlement and just plain old self-centered meanness are the qualities
that make Mavis singularly unattractive. I won't go into the plot, a
flabby and pointless variation on the girl/guy who makes good in the
big city and returns to their small town to find the one-that-got-away,
other than to say that her lost love seems well aware Theron has
schlepped into the wrong movie, giving Mavis the about-face quick smart
and sending her on her way, much to the collective relief of everyone
else in her home town. Apparently Mavis was a right royal stuck up
b.tch at high school and had remained so ever since. At least she
stayed true to herself.

My recommendation, in a nutshell, is don't touch this one with a barge
pole. Seriously, do not be tempted- life is short, and you'll never get
these 2 hrs back.

Oh- unless you're the sort of person who likes to laugh at people with
disabilities. If you do, maybe you'll enjoy this movie, but judging by
my fellow viewers' sighs and groans of disgust and disbelief you will
be one of few.

PS Having written the above and then checked over the professional
reviews on RT, many of which applaud the verite and real world honesty,
I can only say that most reviewers neglect to mention that the movie is
just not engaging.
