
Checked "Life of Crime" in Amsterdam and loved it, as did most of the
audience... Unlike many of the reviewers here, who may have gone in
expecting something different.

Starring Jennifer Aniston, Mos Def and Tim Robbins, "Life of Crime" is
NOT a romantic comedy or straight crime story. Rather, it is an Elmore
Leonard-derived caper tale set in the late 70s, with the soundtrack and
mustaches to match. Staying true to the author's ethos, the dialog is
smart, the jokes are hilarious in quite subtle ways, and the storyline
gently bends until the protagonists end up in an entirely different
place than they were planning to.

Actors usually love doing Leonard scripts - he prefers to let mouths do
the talking, not fists - and the cast pretty much nails it here. I
loved Mos Def, Isla Fisher and Robbins in particular, but it is Aniston
who steals the show. All those years post-Rachel, her comedic timing is
still impeccable, and she still has the capacity to get you to care for
her, even when cast as a hopeless housewife.

The verdict: I thought "Life of Crime" was just as enjoyable as other
recent Elmore Leonard adaptations (that had way bigger budgets and box
office mojo): Tarantino's "Jackie Brown" and Soderbergh's "Out of
Sight", and would recommend "Life of Crime" especially to people who
loved the latter.
<|_=00=_|>
In Life of Crime, unlike many crime thrillers, the focus is on the
characters rather than on achievement of maximum possible violence. All
of the major characters have their stories and some of them seem to
learn from their foolish and sometimes implausible actions. To me, it's
refreshing to watch a crime movie in which things continually go wrong
as the limitations of the characters are revealed. There's violence, a
natural accompaniment to crime, but it's normal violence, not extreme
and glamorous solutions to problems of psychotics. And people respond
to it in ways that are sometimes smart and sometimes stupid. This is a
genre movie that's far better than most.
<|_=00=_|>
Life of Crime is an aptly titled crime dramedy based on The Switch, a
novel by the late Elmore Leonard whose comically dark prose has
inspired other noir films like Quentin Tarantino's Jackie Brown and
Steven Soderbergh's Out of Sight. It's a slow burning pot boiler but
one that simmers with sure-fisted wit, eclectic style and filled with
the type of tension that stretches but never snaps.

Written for the screen and directed by Daniel Schechter, this black
comedy begins with two petty criminals plotting to kidnap Mickey Dawson
(Jennifer Aniston), the trophy wife of Frank Dawson (Tim Robbins) a
corrupt businessman who has amassed a fortune by evading tax
authorities. Having done their homework on Frank and how much money is
stashed away in a tax-free Bahamas bank, Louis (John Hawkes) and Ordell
(Mos Def) are the aforementioned crooks who think they have hatched the
perfect plan  hold the wife ransom in exchange for the husband's
ill-gotten wealth. But unknown to these misdemeanors, Frank has no
intention of getting his wife back. Worst of all, Frank's got a hot
little mistress (Isla Fisher as Melanie) who has a plan of her own but
one that could elevate her status from a gold digger to the new Mrs.
Dawson.

Set in the late 1970s Detroit, Life of Crime is potentially familiar in
swagger to last year's multi-Oscar nominated American Hustle. Even so,
I suspect Schechter has intended for a deeper narration  try homage to
the Coen Brothers' acclaimed masterpiece, Fargo. But where those films
excelled in authentic storytelling prowess, Life of Crime is a low
budget film that seems to be content with a medley of delicious
dialogue from improvised characters. From Melanie and Frank to fumbling
crooks with terrific lines, spunky characterization works like the
unwrapping of a multilayered gift where you get to see what's on the
inside at the very end. Mickey is no exception either, going from a
beaten-down and delusional housewife to a survivalist with vivacious
insight. This is also where Aniston strides further than any of her
previous roles and is definitely one of her best performances to date.
Also thrown in for kicks are two of Leonard's oddball characters  a
neo-Nazi gun nut played by Mark Boone Junior and Will Forte as a weirdo
who has the hots for Mickey  both ambiguous characters whose inclusion
adds humour but also detracts from the main plot.

For a small scale crime thriller and Schechter's third foray as a
director, Life of Crime may not be a very good screen adaptation but
where it struggles in its dwindling screenplay, it makes up with an
ensemble cast that turns out to be the film's saving grace. Perhaps
Tarantino would have done a better job, especially with a montage
ending that seems to suggest that the story has only just begun. Then
again, that film would have been and entirely different cat and mouse
game.
<|_=00=_|>
"We need to find a way o put him against the wall." Frank Dawson
(Robbins) is a businessman with many enemies. When a group of men are
looking for revenge on him they decide to take what is most important
to him, his wife Mickey (Aniston). They kidnap her and demand a ransom
from him. The only downside is that he was going to divorce her and is
with his mistress when they call so he's not all that concerned. This
puts strain on the kidnappers when plans have to change. This is
another movie based off an Elmore Leonard book. If you have seen the
other movies from his books (Jackie Brown, 3:10 To Yuma, Get Shorty and
most recently Justified) you will know what to expect. The feel of all
of them are pretty much alike. This one does have more of a Get Shorty
feel to it in the way that it is a very dark comedy and you aren't sure
who to root for. The acting is very good and the movie keeps you
interested and entertained but I never really got all that into it. I
did like all the twists and the events of this but there was just
something missing to make me really like it. I also wasn't a big fan of
Get Shorty so if you liked that movie you will probably enjoy this much
more then I did. Overall, a movie that I thought was OK and worth
watching but nothing that really made me think wow, this is good. I
give it a B-.
<|_=00=_|>
Review: I found it really hard to get into this film because the
storyline was weak and extremely unrealistic. The movie is based around
a couple of guys who kidnap a rich man's wife in order to get a million
dollars for her release. Not the most unique idea for a film! Anyway, I
was expecting it to be witty, judging by the cast, but it was more
silly than amusing. Mos Def and John Hawkes come up with the dumbest of
plans, which was just not that well thought through. When there plan
starts to go downhill, there terrible criminal minds come up with
another sketchy plan to get themselves out of the mess they made. The
storyline goes from one extreme to another and it doesn't help that
they have a Nazi loving criminal to help them, who also has personal
issues. Basically, the movie wasn't funny or interesting but I did
stick with the film, just to see what these dumb criminals were going
to do next. Average! 

Round-Up: Judging by the unsuccessful box office takings, I'm not alone
with thinking that this film was a total waste of a good cast. Its not
often that Jennifer Aniston makes "Straight To DVD" movies, but after
watching this film, it's not surprising that it flopped. All of the
actors try and make the most out of a terrible storyline, but there
performances isn't enough to save the film. On the plus side, I did
like the ending when characters decide to flip the script and kidnap
someone else but it doesn't really go anywhere. I didn't get how
someone could go missing for a week without anyone suspecting anything
and there was some other sketchy moments that I don't want to mention
because I don't want to spoil the film for people who haven't watched
it. At the end of the day, it could have been much better if the
storyline was thought through properly and if the actual plan made any
sense.

Budget: $12million Worldwide Gross: $1.5million

I recommend this movie to people who are into their comedy/crime movies
about a couple of down and outs, who plan to kidnap a rich man's wife
for a million dollar ransom. 3/10
<|_=00=_|>
A loose prequel of sorts for the criminal players of Jackie Brown,
based on Elmore Leonard's novel The Switch. It's not Jackie, no two
ways about it, and it's unfair to compare the two... unfair, but
inevitable since they're so spiritually related. The stakes are much
lower this time, with a simple kidnapping plot the main point of action
and few of the deliciously tangled interwoven story lines of the
Tarantino flick. In Leonard's hands that still made for a wildly
entertaining read, but on the screen it feels a bit on the shallow
side. This translation is missing the charm and finesse of its source
material, too, and a little of that spice can really go a long way.
John Hawkes manages a really convincing, greasy De Niro impression as
the soft-hearted enforcer Louis, while Mos Def's take on mastermind
Ordell Robbie (originally played by Samuel L. Jackson) is less indebted
to his predecessor. Jennifer Aniston is good as the repressed trophy
wife / tennis mom / kidnappee, but the rest of the cast just seems like
they're wearing costumes and playing games. They take themselves
lightly, so it's tough for me to see the situation as all that serious.
It's fine, superficial at worst, but there's little wonder why it
slipped under the radar without a whimper when it hit the screens a
couple of years ago.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on late Elmore Leonard's novel The Switch, 'Life of Crime' is an
interesting watch, that is funny & finely acted, too! But the
slow-pace, makes you feel restless at times. 

'Life of Crime' Synopsis: Two common criminals get more than they
bargained for after kidnapping the wife of a corrupt real-estate
developer who shows no interest in paying the $1 million dollar ransom
for her safe return.

'Life of Crime', at 99-minutes delivers a story of crime & deception,
admirably. But, as I mentioned before, the slow-pace gets to you after
a point. Right after the kidnapping incident, one expects the pace to
get faster, but it doesn't. Fortunately, the final act picks up
momentum. But better pacing was the need of the day! 

Daniel Schechter's Adapted Screenplay has merit & the dialogue, are
wonderful. Schechter's Direction is neat, as well. Cinematography is
standard. Editing is the weakest link of the enterprise. 

'Life of Crime' would've fallen flat had its casting not been right,
but over here, each & every actor is perfectly cast. John Hawkes
continues to perform brilliantly. Tim Robbins is tremendously
despicable, enacting a moron to perfection. Jennifer Aniston is good,
but looks aged here. Isla Fisher is first-rate. Will Forte is
excellent. Mos Def is superb. Mark Boone. Jr impresses, as well. 

On the whole, 'Life of Crime' gets some things right, not all. Watch it
if you must!
<|_=00=_|>
"She looks like a million bucks."

If you were to run into Life of Crime prior to having seen Quentin
Tarantino's Jackie Brown then you probably wouldn't feel in the mood to
see it considering Daniel Schechter's film is a bit of a letdown.
Despite being a prequel to Jackie Brown, which was also based on Elmore
Leonard's novel, this film doesn't have that same punch to it. This
proves just how difficult it is to do what Tarantino does so well.
Leonard always writes rich characters who at times seem quirky. He
mixes black humor with action pretty well, but in Life of Crime that
spark is missing. The film relies on a talented cast who make the movie
a bit more entertaining, but the story simply fails to engage and at
times everything seems so light and pointless. There is something phony
about these characters and the plot which constantly reminds the
audience that there isn't anything true or authentic about this world.
For a film based on a Leonard novel, the characters don't seem to have
much going for them either. These aren't the characters we fell in love
with in films like Jackie Brown, Out of Sight, and Get Shorty which
were all created by Leonard. If I had to compare it to another
adaptation from a Leonard novel I would say this is much more similar
to Armitage's The Big Bounce starring Owen Wilson and Morgan Freeman.
It is that disappointing no matter how much you like the cast here.
Life of Crime doesn't have anything remarkable to say really, it simply
is content with existing and perhaps trying to hook Jackie Brown fans
along the way. The comedy doesn't work really well, while the vibe and
tone of the film is way too silly to take the action seriously. Perhaps
I was just familiar with the characters this time around and found the
entire premise a bit too ridiculous, but the film simply didn't engage
me as much as other Leonard adaptations have in the past. 

Life of Crime's talented cast doesn't save this mediocre film, although
they provide some enjoyment. The one who stands out is John Hawkes who
plays Louis (Robert De Niro's character in Jackie Brown). It is
remarkable how he can play such a scary and creepy role in one film and
then all of a sudden you see how likable and sweet he can be in
another. This time around, Hawkes is extremely likable and charming
despite being a kidnapper. His partner in crime is Ordell (played by
Mos Def in this film and Samuel L. Jackson in Jackie Brown). Def is
also charming in this film and the two play off one another extremely
well. As thieves they are completely incompetent, but we still want
them to succeed. The weak link in this film was Jennifer Aniston who
plays Mickey, the wife who is kidnapped. She simply didn't sell the
character. Tim Robbins plays her husband, Frank, who is having an
affair with Isla Fisher's Melanie. So you can see how the kidnappers
plans are ruined when they find out that the husband has no interest in
paying the ransom. That is kind of the whole joke of the film. Will
Forte and Mark Boone Junior give strong supporting roles as well and
there were actually a few moments involving the two that stood out for
me comedic wise. The film did open pretty strongly but it didn't seem
to go anywhere and several elements were completely left out. For
example, Mickey and Frank's son who was introduced in the opening
scenes is completely left out of the picture during the ransom. It's as
if director Schechter simply didn't know where to take the story once
all the characters were introduced. I was a huge fan of Jackie Brown so
I was quite disappointed with this prequel.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I do not know what to say, I rarely write a review about a movie,
but this movie was too boring, acting was great, plot is kinda
familiar, directing is disappointing.

My wife and I was trying to fight falling asleep during watching it. It
seemed to be a short movie that usually can be directed in 15 minutes,
but they asked for a super director that can execute it in 100 minutes,
so that was the final result,,, BORING!

I voted 5/10 because the acting was great, and the ending made me
smile. I wont spoil it, but I was surprised.

If you want to kill 100 minutes, or need help for sleeping, watch it!
<|_=00=_|>
Starts out okay enough... decent at least, and just when you think that
the build up is done and it's gonna start picking up the pace it
instead does the opposite.

It just gets boring and the cast could not save it, Jennifer Aniston is
a hit or miss for me I think that in comedies she can be a little
annoying where as in dramas she can occasionally be really good.

She plays a kidnap victim at this so I expected her to be good in the
dramatic scenes but scenes that called for a little drama she played
off the same way she plays her characters in any rom-com she's ever
made. 

I got more and more annoyed with her the further into the movie we got
because of it; she's not really acting in this one IMO, she's Jennifer
Aniston saying her lines and reacting a little to the rest of the cast
but there is no sense of depth in her characterisation.

But then I guess one could argue the same about pretty much all of the
rest of the cast in this movie, even 2 of my personal favorites Tim
Robbins and Mos Def fail to impress.

And where the movie had potential at getting a little exciting the
director stays very clear away from that actually happening by
downplaying every scene and having the actors play their characters as
emotionless as possible.

Watching it I just felt a sense of 'why should I care?' and none of the
characters seem to care much either for that matter, perhaps that is
why I felt like that, hard to root for someone who doesn't even root
for themselves I guess.

Anyway yeah, all in all a waste of time.
