
I went into the Savannah Film Festival screening of this film not
really expecting much. Of all the movies I saw at the film festival,
this one resonated with me the most, and came closest to my heart.

Sam Levinson has woven a dark dramedy of epic proportions as Lynn
(Oscar-worthy performance by Ellen Barkin) drives her two sons to her
mother's house for the eldest son's wedding. Through it all the
audience witnesses the public and private meltdowns and
sentimentality's of this flawed, and deeply human family.

From Lynn's confrontation of her divorc√© husband (Thomas Haden Church),
to her drug-addled, caustic-mouthed son Elliot's (genius performance
from Ezra Miller) flirtation with grandpa's meds, to catty quips from
Lynn's sisters, past trauma, guilt, and resentment flow onto the
screen. What rises from this fertile emotional landscape are
frightening moments, and hysterically funny scenes. For the audience
it's an event, but Lynn and her boys it's just 'Another Happy Day.' 

Humor is the pallet cleanser for this hearty cinematic meal. The viewer
fears for Elliot's life after he nearly OD's on the bathroom floor;
then breaks into hysterics as Elliot tries to hide his blue lips with
mom's rouge, the following morning. It's all so funny, and so smart.
You will be cry as much from laughing as you will from the sorrowful
scenes.

Performances cut deep with their stark realism. From Ellen Barkin's
Lynn, Ezra Miller's Elliot, Ellen Burstyn's Doris, down to 14 year old
Daniel Yelsky's Ben - someone is going to get an Oscar nomination here.
And if not, then the critics aren't ready for Levinson's dark blend of
laughs and tears.

Highly recommended: 9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
"Another Happy Day" does not operate in the way usual films do. It does
not give you a certain point of climax or intensity and a so-called
satisfying, complete closure that many people may expect. Well, these
are exactly the things not to be expected. 

Look forward to a distinctive drama about a family and the
relationships in it. Look forward to a unusual film with both happy and
sad moments yet not necessarily with even the slightest of
predictability and cheerfulness. It is not necessarily sad, but for
certain it does not try to cheer you up.

You can call this film many things. Call it hilarious, call it
depressing, call it reality, call it family. It has its share of
heartbreaking and heartwarming moments, and it is certainly harsh when
it comes to show that this may be exactly what reality may be like. Not
all problems can be solved in real life like in the movies, and this is
a piece that does not present itself as a typical film; it presents
itself as a potential reality, and it goes from there.

The emotions are so rich and deep in this film that it is almost
impossible to capture them all so vividly and put them forth on the
screen for the audience. But thanks to a group of brilliant
performances, the impossible becomes possible, and the power of film
definitely emanates more from the incredibly stunning and entirely
realistic acting than from the plot.

Despite the total ignorance of this film by the Academy, the
performances here alone, not taking the storyline into account, form
one of the greatest ensembles of the year. Ellen Barkin as Lynn and
Ezra Miller as Elliot, Lynn's son, have delivered one of the most solid
and promising performances of the year, and are undoubtedly, as most
would say, Oscar-worthy. The emotional collapse of Ellen Burstyn as
Doris, Lynn's mother, is another performance too powerful to not pay
attention to. The only underachieving one here may be Academy Award
nominee Thomas Haden Church, who plays Lynn's ex-husband, Paul, and now
has a new spouse, Patty (Demi Moore). 

There is a lot of love and hate in this film, and however immorally
wrong it may be, this reflects reality in many families, especially
bigger ones. The countless issues are not going to just vanish, and it
is usually easier said than done to overcome these troubles. In Lynn's
case it is even more difficult, with everyone in the family seeming to
disapprove of her actions and as Lynn refers to, not on her side.
During such a visit with so much hospitality, Lynn must resolve into
getting over these problems in the wedding of his son Dylan (Michael
Nardelli), who has stayed with Paul and Patty since little age.

Another problem arises as Lynn continues to think and have serious
doubts whether she is a good mother. Elliot and Ben (Daniel Yelsky) are
both raised by Lynn, and they also have "issues". The former has some
kind of severe emotional disorder and can burst into an uncontrollable
rampage all of a sudden while the latter is also said to have mildly
autistic trouble. Alice (Kate Bosworth), another child raised by Lynn,
also seems to have issues and has even hurt herself before. It is in
this situation that brings Lynn to the edge. She is on the verge of
breaking down, under an extremely uncomfortable environment with
everyone pointing fingers at her from the outside and her inner sorrow
of her failures on her children.

We have Elliot and Ben. Ben appears as a figure lacking confidence and
often feels and reacts badly when others discuss his "autistic nature".
Elliot is not your ordinary teenager. He takes teenage drugs and smokes
cigarettes, but he is more than that. At times, he seems normal and
behaves normally, but at other times, he can act incoherently and
totally irresponsibly because of his apparent inability to control
himself in certain circumstances. While Lynn has her unbearable load of
issues to tackle, the two teenagers also have to deal with their
hardships during this somewhat unwanted visit to Lynn's mother.

Alice is not presented to us as a main character though she has been
the focus of conversations from time to time, and when she comes up,
her problem is no longer her own. It is connected to other members in
the family, like Lynn herself, and of course her father, Paul. The
relationship between her and Paul is one kind of relationship, and the
relationship between Lynn and Paul concerning her is another kind, and
then it certainly also causes problems between Patty and Lynn. And
between Patty and Lynn it does not end there. With Dylan being Lynn's
son but being raised by Patty, his tendency towards Lynn for walking
him down the aisle inevitably results in Patty's fury.

The relationships in this family are too complex describe in plain
words and you will have to see for yourself how complicated it can be. 

"Another Happy Day" has depth in its diversity of emotions portrayed by
a group of talented actors and actresses, and it is an enjoyable
experience. It is a drama about a family in general. It covers life and
death, sicknesses, teenage problems, emotional disorders, marriages,
love, and of course, family.

All I have to remind you is that "Another Happy Day" may not really
guarantee you a "happy" experience. For most of the audience, I would
say "depression" should be the word. But I guess if you face it
optimistically and bravely, it can still be a satisfying and happy
journey somehow. 

Either way, it is a film where extraordinarily great performances meet
affluently rich sentimental displays and a film that should be
appreciated.
<|_=00=_|>
At the time of writing this review 308 users have given a weighted
average vote of 4.9. Note that 92 voters gave a 10 and 39 voters gave a
1. That indicates Another Happy Day must be a controversial movie. Let
me add that it is a controversial quality movie. You may or may not
like the story, if you don't then view this movie as a demonstration of
good acting. Ellen Barkin is superb. And then there is Ellen Burstyn,
at first I did not recognize her ( excellent make-up job ) but Doris
and Sarah Goldfarb in Requiem for a Dream are both played by Ellen
Burstyn. Demi Moore plays the part of a woman you should instantly hate
and she does that very well. I simply forgot she was 'Demi Moore'. - I
don't want to say much about the movie except this line, as I remember
it. "I got upset because they called me autistic while I am only
diagnosed as bipolar." - "Did they say that while you were there?" -
"No, but I have exceptionally well hearing, I can hear frequencies as
low as 20 Hertz."
<|_=00=_|>
I confess to having seen this film twice, the second time just to see
if knowing the ending made any difference to the way the script plays
out. It didn't. I was just as embroiled in the detail of a family
showing their affection for each other in so many different ways but
none of them pleasant. And yet the love was and is there for the whole
of the family, it just isn't the kind of fluff or gush that Hollywood
is famed for heaping upon its audiences. This is tough love for tough
lives, not in the physical sense but in the mental veneers families
sometimes play with.

If this were a book you would probably put it down and find a lighter
read but as a film it provokes you to look away in the full knowledge
you won't because you are already gripped. You just want to know how
long it will take before the sparring turns into real bare knuckle
fights. The cast perform their tasks wonderfully well, so well that
they seem real and that is another reason you cannot turn your head. It
is not a film for those who love action or movement in a film because
this dwells and draws maximum coverage from each scene. And yet it
isn't slow. It is deeply layered and textured with such a diverse range
of characters each vying for your affection. And you will love them all
for their many faults but mostly for their ability to survive.

If you are not into intelligent drama then you'd best give this a mess,
but if you like a really good tour around human beings attempting to
live together if only for a day or so, then try it. You may enjoy it as
much as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
"Another Happy Day" is an independent/low budget film from newcomer
director Sam Levinson that focuses on a middle aged woman Lynn (Ellen
Barkin) and her incredibly troubled family coming together for her
eldest son's wedding. 

The family ties here are quite complicated; Lynn has three sons and a
daughter. Dylan, the groom and her eldest son was mostly raised by ex-
husband Paul (Thomas Haden Church) and conniving second wife Patty
(Demi Moore), Lynn's daughter with Paul is Alice (introduced halfway in
the film by Kate Bosworth), who was raised by Lynn and is suicidal and
prone to self harm. The younger sons are chronic drug addict Elliot
(Ezra Miller) and an Asperger's sufferer Ben (Daniel Yelsky). It
doesn't stop there, Lynn has two unbearable sisters you want to
strangle (Diana Scarwid, Siobhan Fallonn Hogan) and her mother (Ellen
Burstyn), as proper and respectable as she is, lacks any warmth or
support for her daughter. 

The film is a depressing and an emotionally draining experience. At
times it is almost unbearable especially in Lynn's position as everyone
around her is either against her or verbally and mentally attacking her
to shreds. Burstyn's character makes a point one night of "Why ME!?" ,
as she reflects on the deterioration of her husband, but the audience's
sympathy should be applied to Lynn, she is continually on the verge of
a major breakdown but continues to pay no attention to how bad her
state is and tries to soldiers on in this "joyous" family occasion. 

Despite the film's miserable tone throughout and the lack of any
resolution in the end, the film offers fantastic performances all
around. In particular Ellen Barkin as the lead is simply stunning and
should be recognized for her work here, her career has somewhat stalled
in the last 10 years but hopefully with this performance and her recent
Tony win we can see more performances of this caliber in the future.
Another standout is the very engaging performance of Ezra Miller who
plays the son from hell in another 2011 film this year (We Need to Talk
About Kevin), and we shall hopefully see a lot more of him in the
future. Ellen Burstyn was her usual wonderful self, her scene in the
kitchen late at night with Barkin is incredibly intense and realistic,
she take your breath away. Kate Bosworth, Demi Moore (a real bitch in
this) and Thomas Haden Church are also at their best. Gloomy film, but
wonderful cast, and recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised to see this film didn't score that highly! I happened
to catch this showing on SKY recently, and almost switched channels
thinking it could be another slow-moving, half-hearted drama starting!
I missed the very start and caught it at the bit where Ellen Barkin
(Lynn) was driving with her two sons to the families house; to stay to
attend her eldest son, Dylans wedding. I am so glad I continued to
watch! I found this a very moving, poignant film in which I felt many
people could deeply relate to. I found the characters very defined and
very easy to like and sympathise with.

Not many films make me feel a lump in my throat and make me feel as
though I am really there with them and feeling their grief, and day-to-
day issues... this definitely did this for me! The strained
relationship (amongst many within this family) between Doris and Lynn,
was portrayed amazingly, as was the tension between Lynn and Patty
(Demi Moore). Demi Moore (Patty)really played a harsh bitch and it was
very raw! The most moving parts for me were, where Ben said he had
overheard the family, and what they had said about his condition (I
won't spoil that part, you will have to watch). Also the part where
Lynn shouted abuse at her son, Elliott, calling him a M*****F*****!
That was pretty harrowing and shocking, and some thing I could NEVER
imagine, or contemplate saying to my son,whatever the circumstances!
But it shows how far angst and despair can really push you, and how it
can change ones self! That part really did make me choke! The scene
where Alice enters the room at the dinner-party get together was very
moving; and I felt her discomfort when walking in to the room full of
family that all knew of her issues and past...she was very convincing
to watch. Bonnie was my least favourite to watch, I felt she was a
little over-powering, but then I guess there are people as outspoken
and outrageous as she, within family's! But still, my partner and I
found her quite out of place in this film. Not an actress I enjoy
watching.

In my opinion, Ellen Barkin (Lynn) and Ezra Miller (Elliott) outshone
all the rest of the cast, I felt they really stole the show! That isn't
to say the rest weren't good - they really were! Ezra Miller is one to
watch out for in the future, he was so absorbing to watch! Having seen
him recently in "We need to talk about Kevin, he is, in my eyes, a real
inspiration to up and coming young actors, and really intriguing to
watch! 

This is a movie that I am sure hits home to a lot of people, as I felt
it was very real and very impacting! George Kennedy (Joe) certainly
reflected the cruel harsh end to old-age. The moment where Doris opens
her heart to her daughter Lynn over her fears of losing him, really hit
me. This is areal tragedy for most couples to face in later life, and
it was a very moving moment...which made you feel for Doris, despite
her aloof mothering skills towards Lynn.

This is a film to make you feel the awkwardness and the anxiety's of
peoples lives, with moments where you really do cringe. You really can
feel the similarities of this families moments of pain and suffering
within your own life. Yet this film also has many warming and loving
moments throughout. A good master-piece of love, hurt and despair. I
would love to see many more films directed in this way, as for someone
as me, who holds a very short attention-span with the majority of
films, this captivated me and had me on the edge of my seat throughout!
Very gripping and a must-see! I applaud you Sam Levinson!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at Sundance '11...never heard of the director, didn't
know what I was walking into.

The film opens up with 4:3 aspect ratio home footage and I'm
thinking..."Oh no, what did I get myself into?" But the pace was fast
and so I figured, "I'll keep watching." I'm glad this film held my
attention and ant-sized span of interest.

This is one of the best films I've seen all year.

The acting: (including especially the supporting actors) it's fantastic
and real. This film is about real reactions, situations,
dramatizations, and family dynamic. I would love to read the screenplay
and see how closely it was followed.

Sam Levinson has a very successful career ahead of him. After the film
there was a Q&A and Sam nervously got on stage to introduce the actors.
He started forgetting the names of people and there was some laughter
in the audience. I think everyone felt the same way about the film
afterwards--awestruck and humbled by his demeanor.

I've never met Sam, but he seems to be an endearing person and I think
he put his heart into this film. I aspire to direct great films like
Another Happy Day.
<|_=00=_|>
Another Happy Day isn't the typical comedy film; it is a drama than a
comedy, in fact. The screenplay is well-written, as are the character.
The directing is really good - the sequence shot in which the camera is
following Demi Moore, on the music "Poland" by Oladur Arnalds is
gorgeous -, I loved the soundtrack and found the casting to be
interesting; the characters are truly believable & relivable. Maybe my
love for this film has something to do with the fact that I've got a
'little something' for turning-bad-family-gathering film. Obviously,
this film is a controversial one and I can see why. This definitely
will not be the cup of tea of everyone but it worth to be seen. Sam
Levinson gives us an excellent first dark-humoured effective film.
<|_=00=_|>
If yours is a normal, happy family, this film is probably not for you.
I loved it. I loved the amazing cast of meshuggenah characters with
real-life mishegoss (it's not a Jewish film but these Yiddish terms are
apt). I loved how expectations of a wedding day are turned on their
head. Ezra Miller, as the teen who is wedded to drugs, is hilarious and
convincing, delivering his mordant humor with perfect pitch. Ellen
Barkin is a wonder as Lynn¬ónot a false note in her performance as a
mother trying to do her best in circumstances that would drive anyone
to murder or suicide. Producing it as well as acting in it, Barkin is
undoubtedly deeply committed to this film! Ellen Burstyn is marvelous
as Doris, Lynn's mother, who is, among other things, coping with an ill
husband; often, she doesn't have to speak for us to know what she's
feeling. To my mind, Hollywood is not very good at making domestic life
plausible, but here's an outstanding exception. I believed every second
of this movie. It's so funny that I wasn't at all depressed by the
darkness. I didn't read the "external reviews" before I saw "Another
Happy Day." Lucky me!
<|_=00=_|>
With plays about dysfunctional families taking over the stage, "Another
Happy Day" reminds me of many of them. "August: Osage County", "Other
Desert Cities" and "The Lyons" were excellently written views of
screwed-up people trying to keep their clans together no matter how
miserable they made each other. Ellen Barkin is excellent as one of
three sisters who returns home to visit her mother (Ellen Burstyn) when
Barkin's son (raised by his father) is about to be married. Resentments
pop up all over the place, usually focusing on three of Barkin's four
children who are all dealing with emotional issues that go way beyond
their control and have the equally problem loaded Barkin at her wits
end of what to do. Only the soon-to-be married son seems to be drama
free, a fact that one of her children points out to her as being the
result of not having been reared by her. That is probably why his
bride-to-be hasn't run away once she sees what the rest of the family
is like.

First hubby Thomas Haden Church is married to the luscious looking Demi
Moore who seems quite together at first and even is friendly towards
Barkin. But like all of those Broadway plays, relationships are not
what they seem to be, and resentments explode into angry words and
potential violence. Glamorous mom Burstyn is dealing with her quiet
husband George Kennedy's constant heart problems, and has no patience
for Barkin's constant drama. Barkin's two gossipy sisters aren't any
help, either, especially when one of them discovers one of the sons
putting on lipstick. The events are documented by the youngest son who
wants to film the entire weekend. This calls for break-out performances
by the two young actors as Barkin's children from what seems to be a
better second marriage. All sorts of secrets are revealed, and like in
real life, many of the issues are never resolved.

Sometimes it is awkward to watch these sorts of dramas unfold as it
feels like you are staring into people's souls. I couldn't relate to
Barkin's character, but I empathized with her as to her unsure nature
of how to deal with everything. I wanted payback for the two sisters
whose goal in life it seems was to discredit everybody else in the
family. I also really found Burstyn and Kennedy's stories to be
touching, really understanding the generational gap between each part
of the family tree. Burstyn dominates the action in every scene she
does, expressing her disappointments and breaking down in her praise of
the quiet husband she is so afraid of loosing. Kennedy has little to
say, but expresses so much with his eyes and just the single sentences
he is able to get out.

There are some nice little bits of hints here and there, especially
concerning what kind of character Moore really is. Watch Church's
reaction to his wife in the last quarter of the movie. What isn't said
is much more powerful than the verbal. Ezra Miller is an actor to
watch. Get this young actor on Broadway!
