
Sigourney Weaver plays Margeret Matheson, a jaded middle-aged
psychologist. If you've seen Avatar it's the same character she plays
in that but with a bit less vitriol. I liked this character; a firm
woman,but fair and kind when she needs to be. This is a character we've
all met in real life at some point. She's compelling and extremely well
acted by Weaver. In every scene you're completely hooked by the show
she puts on.

Cillian Murphy's character, Tom Buckley, is a little more mysterious.
He plays a Physicist (allegedly) who accompanies Matheson on her
expeditions to debunk fake mediums and psychics. The character is
written with little back story and what little back story that is
introduced remains cryptic. The role is well acted but outshone by the
better conceived, better written character of Matheson. 

The film starts out well. The first scene (a prologue/intro sequence)
is suspenseful and I thought it worked really well. Both Weaver's and
Murphy's characters are introduced well and chemistry is established
right from the first scene. 

The best thing about this film is the atmosphere. Every scene is
absolutely dripping with it. The direction as well is tasteful and
strong. Little touches like the camera shaking a little more in every
scene that Matheson is in (to show her questionable health) are very
effective and add to the feel.

This 2 hour film trundles along at a steady pace, fleshing out Matheson
and Buckley (sort of) and introducing a completely irrelevant love
interest for Buckley. She plays little role in the story and could be
cut entirely.

We follow them as they expose a Psychic as a fake. They perform
surveillance in the crowd before the show, spotting so called "Red
Lights" (employees of the Psychic who scout potential targets for the
psychiching later) and hacking into the radio frequency that is used to
communicated with the Psychic on stage and tell him names and other
secrets to fool the audience into thinking he's actually got a gift.
Looking good so far.

We are shown Matheson's inner turmoil; her sick son. Apparently in a
coma for over a decade, the soft, squishy side of such a apparently
tough woman is laid bare. Apparently her zeal for exposing fake
psychics stems from her inability to let him go. She uses him as an
excuse almost, each case shown to be a fake solidifying her belief that
there's no afterlife and justifying her keeping him alive. Besides a
spot of clumsy writing with some un-needed overexposition (a bit of a
theme with this film I'm afraid) the time spent in the hospital room
really opens up Matheson's character.

And then she dies.

Seriously, she dies. Why? I don't know. Matheson, the most fleshed out
and built up character just up and dies. Such a pointless grab at an
emotional scene completely kicks the legs out from under the film.
There's no reason why the Matheson character couldn't have been
included in the rest of the film, she just disappear. This was supposed
to be a parallel of a past event in the story, where Simon Silver's (a
blind, formerly extremely famous psychic (Robert De Niro)) biggest
critic mysteriously died from a heart attack. However it is very, very
loosely linked and barely explained.

The latter half of the film we focus on Buckley as he becomes obsessed
with discovering Simon Silver as a fraud. Buckley, now apparently the
main character, slowly seems to get more and more unhinged as he's
apparently haunted by Silver. Birds spontaneously fly into windows near
him, things go bump in the night, equipment explodes randomly etc etc.
The void left by Matheson never quite goes away though, for all the
wrong reasons.

Silver is eventually found to not be a fraud after a heavy duty
scientific study but Buckley unleashes his
trying-so-hard-to-do-an-American-accent student(Ben, Craig Roberts) on
the footage from the experiment who eventually comes up with nothing.
Suddenly, love interest (who I'd completely forgotten about) comes
along and spots that Silver's watch and the other scientist performing
the test's watch are perfectly in sync. Ignoring the fact that Silver
was told to remove his watch earlier in the scene and the fact that the
other (unintroduced) scientist is apparently totally alright with
jeopardising his scientific career for whatever Silver is paying him,
this reveal is pretty weak and totally not characteristic of actual
scientific study.

Buckley confronts Silver on stage at his last show (after being beaten
thoroughly to fine mush by one of Silver's minions) and the theatre
goes mad. Lights explode, ceilings crack, the ground shakes, Silver's
glasses fall off. This is all very exciting and you really wonder how
Silver is pulling it all off. You wait for the great reveal. The
turmoil subsides and Buckley flicks a coin at Silver who snatches it
out of the air, revealing he is not in fact blind and is a fraud. This
is where the film should have ended.

And then Silver says that one line. That simple 5 word line that
completely ruins the entire film. "How did you do that"

Yep, you got it. Buckley, the mysterious physicist, the man obsessed
with revealing Silver as a fraud, is the true Psychic. This is a twist
so violent and random it finally breaks the films neck. It completely
mangles the whole tone, message, moral; anything this film had is now
gone. The mystery and tension evaporates like a flock of birds after a
gunshot. The intrigue at how these apparently impossible events could
have possibly happened to Buckley is moot. All of this in the last 5
minutes of the film. I have never known a film be more thoroughly
ruined in such an thorough and accurate way. 

5/10. The story is nearly there, the acting is generally good, the
atmosphere created is stellar, but those last 5 minutes are truly
horrifying.
<|_=00=_|>
Not much has been made of it, but 'Red Lights' has a twist which, I
don't care how attentive or clever you are, you will simply not
predict. Paranormal-themed films are getting to be quite stale, but the
ending, which actually has two twists, is marvellous and might - might
- galvanise the genre. 

Sigourney Weaver and Cillian (pronounced 'Kill-ian') Murphy play
Doctors Matheson and Buckley. They're a psychologist and physicist who
investigate psychic claims. Invariably they come away from each case
laughing. Every one is explained scientifically; rationally. They're
exposed as magic tricks. 

Recent roles haven't reflected why Weaver, who is nearly 65, has been
so prolific of late, but here she excels. Her character is meant to be
an expert and, because of the plausibility she exudes, that's exactly
how I viewed her. Writer-director Rodrigo Cortes' ('Buried') excellent
script assists her characterisation. Intellectual, detailed, life-like:
you could be mistaken, at moments, for watching a TV show debate.
Murphy gets similar credit. He invests in his role a seriousness which
might have been silly if he did so in isolation. 

The doctors find their match in Simon Silver (Robert De Niro), a famous
psychic who comes out of retirement for one last pay check. He's the
only one Weaver won't investigate because 'he's the only one who makes
her doubt'. Murphy insists, however, but when he does, he  we 
uncover more than we were expecting. 

Like you (I hope), I'm convinced that psychic ability is balderdash. So
I was more than impressed at how Cortes creates a mood and a tempo that
keeps you guessing until the dramatic end. His film is original,
suspenseful and, most importantly for a film with this premise,
credible. 

But then there's De Niro, my favourite actor. Always has been. Always
will be. But my God has he been making it hard for me these past 20
years. He once said that he was an actor, not a personality. I think
it's time for him to update his personal quote book. Why do I say this?
Because (and I deeply regret admitting this) he's the single biggest
reason why 'Red Lights', regardless of Weaver's and Murphy's endeavours
and the superb final twist, will join his expanding cannon of fodder.

www.moseleyb13.com
<|_=00=_|>
Psychologist and paranormal investigator Dr. Margaret Matheson
(Sigourney Weaver) and her assistant Dr. Tom Buckley (Cillian Murphy) a
physicist travel around debunking supposed paranormal activity from
bumps in the night to stage psychics. Dr. Buckley wants to investigate
their most challenging person to date, Simon Silver (Robert De Niro), a
redound psychic who is making a comeback after a thirty year absence
from the stage. Dr. Matheson warns Buckley against this though after
having come up against him in the 1970s and failing to prove him a
fraud. With the help of student Sally Owen (Elisabeth Olsen) Buckley
defies Matheson and begins investigating the illusive Silver.

As a radical atheist and sceptic the film's ideas appealed to me. I was
delighted to watch the scientists make fun of and debunk people who
claim to see ghosts and be able to read minds. The script treats these
people with distain and isn't afraid to mention how these people can be
responsible for giving stupid people false hope and can even cost
lives. The cast is also amongst the best of any film this year. With
actors such as Signourney Weaver, Cillian Murphy, Toby Jones, Joely
Richardson, the delightful Elizabeth Olsen and my all time favourite
actor Robert De Niro, anything less than a great film would be a
disappointment. Well, this isn't a great film but it isn't terrible
either.

The cast are all great. It's nice to see Sigourney Weaver in a more
substantial role for a change and not just popping up at the end of a
sci-fi film. She is believable as a psychologist and it's fun to see
her spa with Toby Jones. Her character also has just the tiniest bit of
doubt which makes her fallible and this is conveyed well by the
actress. Cillian Murphy is also excellent as the physicist but is a bit
more mysterious than Weaver. He gets better as his character develops
as the film progresses. Elisabeth Olsen gives another good performance
but after her break out roles in Mary, Martha and Safe House takes a
bit of a back seat here. De Niro, who as I said is my all time
favourite actor doesn't embarrass himself for once and while we don't
get De Niro of the 70s or 80s he's on good form here. The supporting
cast of Submarine's Craig Roberts, Joley Richardson, Toby Jones and
English language newcomer Leonardo Sbaraglia help to round out a great
cast with good performances.

The plot develops at a good pace and it gets darker and scarier as it
goes on. I wasn't able to get the main twist which was a satisfying if
ever so slightly confusing one but De Niro's twists were ridiculously
obvious and pointed to far too much. Anyone can see what is going on,
you just have to watch. The camera work is far too busy for my liking.
One scene featuring Murphy and Olsen having a conversation in a café
used about seven different camera angles and it became a little
distracting. After filming Ryan Reynolds in a box for his last feature
Buried, director Rodrigo Cortes could have done with making his latest
film a bit more confined.

The first hour is definitely better than the second and there was an
echo of "oh, well then" as the lights went up in the cinema. The film
loses its way slightly in the second half and the somewhat pedestrian
script comes to the forefront. While the actors do a good job and while
there is plenty to like the ending isn't brilliant and doesn't do the
opening justice. Even so, it's nice to watch some great actors
delivering good performances and the twists should keep most people
guessing.

www.attheback.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, apologies for the review title. I've seen too many tabloid
headlines.

Red Lights was reasonably original, well-written and well-acted. Any
movie that can tick these three boxes is worth a look. Although the
build up to the introduction of De Niro's character (Simon Silver)
represented a slightly excessive portion of the movie it was,
nevertheless, interesting. I gather the ending has divided opinion
quite a lot, and I admit that it could have been done much better. I've
said before when reviewing movies that it's never a good sign when you
have to have a character explicitly explain just what has happened in
the film. It might have been a better idea to leave it without the
explanation and let the audience decide. That might have stoked up
debate in a good way and generated some more interest in the film.

Acting-wise i'm sorry to say i'm always skeptical when Robert De Niro
appears in a movie nowadays. The man was a terrific actor in his day,
but he's been in a lot of recent turkeys. He doesn't have a lot of
screen-time here but his performance was fine. If he keeps choosing
credible films like this one his reputation will start to repair
itself. Sigourney Weaver performs with credit as usual and I always
rate Cillian Murphy highly.

Definitely worth going to see this. It's above average, if only
slightly.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't sure what to expect from the trailers. Gore and horror aren't
my thing, unless it's done well, and so few are these days. However, I
was pleasantly surprised. This has less to do with the supernatural and
more to do with belief systems in a modern world.

The story focuses upon two scientist professors that fill in the time
between classes by investigating and exposing psychic frauds, be they
petulant schoolgirls or venal evangelists. So when Murphy presses to
investigate a famous mystic, why is Weaver so reluctant to agree? Is De
Niro gifted with extraordinary powers, or a clever con artist? The
atmosphere becomes more menacing and oppressive as the film progresses,
leaving me wondering whether Murphy was becoming paranoid, or whether
De Niro really was targeting him. The end, though not exactly the Sixth
Sense ending some are proclaiming, was certainly unexpected.

Great acting from the leads, as you would expect. Great dialogue. Not
much in the way of action, nor thankfully schlock horror, but the
tension mounted throughout the film. A clever and satisfying film.
<|_=00=_|>
I was not expecting this movie to be the awesomeness that it was. De
Niro and Weaver were the only reason I wanted to watch this movie, but
I am glad I did! 

This movie attacks the tired old concept of 'is ESP real?' with new
vigour, new ideas and explanations. Not a single shot of the movie is
unnecessary or a 'filler' shot. And none of the 'scary movie' theatrics
to keep you on edge. 

It has the right story line, right people and the right scenes to take
you where it wants to take you, without the additional drama, not that
it doesn't have some clever twists. 

This is a 'clever' movie, doesn't spell out everything for you, makes
you want to watch it carefully so as to not miss a thing. All in all,
its one of the best thriller movies I have seen. 

I completely recommend watching it!
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly don't how, or why, this "film" made it beyond a random
thought in some idiot's drug addled brain. The entire concept is
flawed. I read in another post that the director did a great deal of
research because he wanted the film to be "believable?" Are you
kidding? This is, without a doubt, one of the worst movies I have ever
seen... and that's including what plays behind the hilarious characters
of MST3K. The only reason to sit through this train wreck is if you are
really stoned and want something to dissect and laugh at.

At one point about halfway into the film, I commented to my wife,
"Maybe De Niro is just a regular, old, blind guy and all of this is in
his head. A sort of fantasy he made up to entertain himself as he
trudges through the daily routine." It was supposed to be a joke, but a
testament to the awful reality of the script was my wife's response:
"That would actually be a better idea for a movie!"

Honestly, we only finished watching for two reasons: 1) We were having
a great time making fun of it. 2) We wanted to see what laughable
"twist" was coming at the end. The twist did not disappoint.
**SPOILERS** De Niro wasn't really blind. OOOHHHHHHH!!! Couldn't see
that one coming ten thousand miles away. The second twist? I'll let you
find out, but it's just silly and certainly not worth sitting through
the film, if that's the only reason you're still watching after the
first 20 minutes.

Now this section will contain many SPOILERS, as I want to respond to
some of the more ridiculous plot points:

1. Is this supposed to be some alternate reality, as other reviewers
have stated, where any of the subject matter of this script actually
matters... to anyone? If so, they did not do a good job of establishing
this fact. The movie makes it seems as though psychic frauds are
PLAGUING the world and must be fought with the fervor of the war on
terror, or the drug war. Which, incidentally I do not agree with, but
at least those would make sense for a movie plot.

2. De Niro is supposed to be some master villain, hellbent on
destroying people's lives, but they never really cover any terrible act
he's committing. Ohhhh... he's a fraud who fleeces people for money...
AND?! Who gives a sh!7? Am I supposed to care that much about idiots
giving their money to a conman? He's no worse than a televangelist. Did
they show him raping women and children? Was he shown stealing money
from thousands of sick and poor people? No. So who cares what some hack
psychic does with his time?

3. The scene where they bust the fraudulent faith healer is hilarious.
First, Sigourney and Cillian are using some high-tech spy gear to bust
the guy, and for some reason the police are with them. OK. When the
bust occurs, the director makes a half-assed attempt to make it look
like the whole production is being run by biker meth dealing types? I
assume that's what he was going for. The bust concludes with the cops
hauling the faith healer off to prison... for... I'm not sure. In this
world, I guess being a faith healer is some major crime that gets you
locked away for life? I doubt they even broke any laws, scummy as the
characters might be.

4. Sigourney Weaver's death. WTF? Did those people on the talk show
kill her? Cillian just finds her dead after the talk show got out of
hand. And why are they portraying the talk show appearance as though it
would matter at all? In most believable worlds, Sigourney's appearance
would be little more than an episode of some daytime talk show, or a
blurb in a TLC programs on debunking paranormal claims. Yet, Cillian is
watching this event unfold on his television screen as though he's
watching a State of the Union address, or some debate that has ANY
consequences to important matters. Again... who cares? Cillian's
character, I guess. The audience sure wasn't lead to a place of caring
by this point in the script.

5. Near the end of the film, the "scientist" who ran the experiment on
De Niro is about to publish his findings that the demonstrated psychic
phenomena was real. This is supposed to be a HUGE deal for some reason,
that ONE scientist at ONE university published a study. This also goes
against the point other reviewers posted that this script takes place
in a universe where everyone is interested in the paranormal and the
public widely believes in paranormal abilities. If that is the case,
then why would this study be a big deal? I think this point shows that
the writer/director wanted this script to take place in the real world,
which is absolute insanity. Anyway... back to the topic. This scene is
ridiculous! Scientist publish controversial findings all the time. The
movie acts as though the second this study is signed and published, the
world as we know it will come to an end. Up will become down. Black
will become white. Yadda yadda. Who... gives... a... sh17?! Studies
like this one HAVE been published in the real world and no one cared.
So... why would anyone care about a fictionalization of a common
occurrence? It's all just so terrible.

"Review" continued below...
<|_=00=_|>
Unimpressed. I liked the theme that the movie was hinting towards in
the beginning. Scientists evaluating and debunking pseudo-science and
psychic phenomena. Reminded me of the Great James Randi. But within
minutes, it was clear that even that aspects are mangled up. Some
investigations are shown without the results/ explanations given in
detail. The debunks are simplistic, and talk about some of the common/
popular psychic cons, but never in detail; I wonder if people would
catch it unless they are already familiar with the cons via
documentaries and other shows.

I was particularly irritated about how they administered the Astrology
chart test devised by James Randi, and popularized via "Pen & Teller:
Bulls**t" episode. Cilian Murphy's character administered the test, and
then left the scene without explaining the point of the exercise, which
is a shame.

I liked Sigourney Weaver's character in the beginning, but the
character turned out to be so poorly threshed out; not a lot better
than a caricature of a pseudo-science skeptic. 

I understand a lot of people have problems with the movie's ending. I
can understand the frustration. The climactic twist takes away from the
central premise, it reminded me of 'The Reaping' in some way. And
besides being incongruous to the main storyline, it further had the
problem of being very poorly executed.

Overall, I'd rate it around 4 out of 10. Not great.
<|_=00=_|>
With a good cast like this how could it collapse so terribly? A
terrible story with very bad direction.

The story starts off with some potential - investigating and debunking
bogus paranormal claims. Then it just totally falls apart with a
disgusting toilet beating up and anti climactic ending.

The direction is terrible with cheap shock tactics and over dramatic
music.

I know it's hard to get roles after a certain age but Sigourney and
Robert are way too good for such a bad story. Even Cillian is too good
for this movie.

Just don't bother at all.
<|_=00=_|>
I had high hopes for this movie after reading some of the glowing
reviews on this site. I figured that with Weaver and De Niro this had
to be on course. I will admit that the first 45 minutes of the movie
are excellent, engrossing and you really feel like you are on course
for something special. But then it all goes horribly wrong. It turns
into a total circus with a VERY easy to predict plot. I've read reviews
of people saying stuff about needing to be a genius to figure this
movie out. The clues are blatantly obvious! As for the characters, it's
the best I've seen Weaver since the Alien movies. As for De Niro, why
does he keep choosing roles that are just not suited to De Niro? Murphy
is best sticking to being a slime bad guy.

This could have been a genuinely good story but turned out to be a poor
imitation of an M Night Shyamalan movie. I cannot recommend this movie.
