
I saw the world premiere of "Bernie" last night at the Los Angeles Film
Festival. I must confess, after Jack Black's run of "Year One",
"Gulliver's Travels", and "Kung Fu Panda", I was starting to lose hope
of ever seeing the "School of Rock" guy I fell in love with. When I
heard Richard Linklater (School of Rock) and Jack Black were teaming up
again, I felt a glimmer of hope. I am happy to report, I was not
disappointed last night! Jack Black gives one of the best performances
of his career in "Bernie." Shirley MacLaine was the icing on the cake
and Matthew McConaughey was the cherry on top. I loved this movie!
"Bernie" is based on the true story of Bernie Tiede, an assistant
funeral director and general do-gooder, who confessed to killing
Marjorie Nugent, a very rich and mean old lady. Bernie was a bit
eccentric but beloved by his entire community of Carthage, Texas. Jack
Black nails this performance. He really shows us what he is capable of
as an actor. It was such a pleasure to watch him transform into Bernie
Tiede. Great moments of physical comedy and also some twisted, dark
moments of catching a glimpse into Bernie's spiraling psyche. Shirley
MacLaine was Marjorie Nugent who was known as a mean, bitter lady with
no friends and a family who tried to sue her for her money. You can't
go wrong with Shirley MacLaine  she's just brilliant. The chemistry
between MacLaine and Black was fantastic. I truly enjoyed watching them
on the screen together. Even at the world premiere last night they had
great chemistry in person. It seems like they truly loved working
together on this film. Matthew McConaughey was great as the D.A. Danny
Buck Davidson, the character didn't seem to be a huge stretch for him,
but who cares  he was great! I'm not sure when it is due to be
released, but I will be recommending it to my friends when it hits
theatres.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the privilege of seeing this film in Austin last month. Mr.
Linklater was among the thousands devastated by the fires in Bastrop
county and with his hard work and help from Jack Black and crew they
turned the screening into a fundraiser to help the fire victims. They
raised over $155,000. It was a great event. The movie was the best
part. If you live or have lived in a small town anywhere in America
you'll 'get' this movie and you won't be able to stop laughing. If
you're in Texas or you hate Texas, it'll be just that much better. The
characters are real, the acting is superb. Jack is at the top of his
game and Mathew did an outstanding job. He played his role right on the
edge, always close to going over the top but never getting there.
Shirley is a gem and acted like I've never seen her before. Thank you
Richard for your film and your efforts in Bastrop. My farm survived,
but too many friends lost everything. Oh, and thanks for letting me be
in this film. Woohoo that's me at the end Ma!!
<|_=00=_|>
This was a surprisingly good movie. Director Richard Linklater blends
semi-documentary style with dark comedy and tragic real-life events in
an exceptional way. Based on the murder of a wealthy widow in Carthage
Texas in 1996. This movie gives you an interesting glimpse into small
town life and how the people there dealt with this unique situation.
Jack Black proves he can act, Matthew McConaughy looked to be enjoying
himself, and Shirley MacLaine, while not having much to do, is still a
welcome addition to the cast. Linklater even uses real townsfolk to
help narrate the story through their own recollections of the events.
This is one of those independent films that is a must see.
<|_=00=_|>
One could technically label Bernie a docudrama, as it is definitely
more than meets the eye in terms of bringing facts to the table. The
film is intercut with segments featuring the townspeople of Carthage,
Texas discussing their relationship with the real Bernie Tiede and how
his cheery eccentricities rubbed off on the town. Some of them are
clearly actors, one of them being Matthew McConaughey's mother, but
many are authentic folk off the street. Linklater very early on breeds
variety into a film with so many unique and cute subtleties that after
a while, you contemplate what you may have missed. Enthusiastically

Tiede is an assistant funeral director in Carthage, and can't be more
proud of what he does. He's the man who fixes up the dead to make them
look sometimes better than they did alive. Bernie is notorious for
connecting deeply with his customers who have come to him after the
death of a loved one, and even manages to stay in contact with many of
them long after the funeral, dropping by and even bringing them flowers
occasionally. He's a genial, kind soul and effortlessly brightens
everyone's day. Almost like that guy on the street, at the office, on
the bus, or in the neighborhood you don't know personally, don't know
their history, or quite possibly even know their name, but you make the
humane nuance to wave or say hello to them frequently. Tiede is an ode
to that person in your life.

Bernie becomes friends with Marjorie Nugent (MacLaine), a wealthy old
widow, who is mean-spirited and, after occupying a certain disdain for
him, gives into his cheeriness and they begin hanging out with each
other. It isn't long before Bernie grows weary of Mrs. Nugent's
browbeating comments and shoots her four times in the back. Devastated
at what he has done out of pure anger, he manages to conceal the body
for months before the district attorney Danny Buck (played extremely
well by McConaughey, whose character somewhat resembles Woody
Harrelson's cold-blooded cop from Rampart), a cowboy-hatted, tall, and
thin man always dapper, becomes suspicious of Bernie. He believes his
nice appearance is just a put-on for the heartless deviant he really
is.

The character of Bernie is played by Jack Black, in a role that is
beyond any description I can helpfully provide. His character needs to
be seen. Black takes a character, whose story and personality is likely
unknown to many people in 2012, and invents this kind, charismatic
person in the blink of an eye. Bernie is perhaps the nicest movie
character I have been greeted with this year, and even after he kills
an old woman, it's hard to even have harsh feelings for the sap. What
he did was wrong, but it has become apparent that when a film features
a cold-blooded killer, we are robbed of backstory and reason as to why
he is doing this or how he got here. We learn so much about Bernie and
his life before the inevitable murder that we almost can't hate the man
despite his unforgivable actions.

Richard Linklater, who previously worked with Black in the impressive
School of Rock, directs this black comedy with a serene bite, providing
it with a rich script, and three lovable performances by three fine
actors. Its deep south cinematography reminds me of the kind used in
the drama Seven Days in Utopia, only more expressively used and
healthier for the tone of the picture, not to mention the involving
narrative carried throughout the excursion truly compliments the quiet
rural nature of its setting. Bernie is one of the most enthusiastically
quirky pictures of the year.

Starring: Jack Black, Shirley MacLaine, and Matthew McConaughey.
Directed by: Richard Linklater.
<|_=00=_|>
Last Friday a theater full of cinemaphiles (in what one old codger in
the film calls "the People's Republic of Austin") LOVED it! It was Jack
Black's best performance in the most demanding role he's ever
attempted. Shirley MacLain was brilliant in developing a complex
character in what was almost a non-speaking role. Supporting players,
the funeral director, the broker, the sheriff, were first rate - but
the major character in the film is the Greek Chorus, dubbed "The
Gossips" by director Linklater, comprised of a score of actors and
local townspeople who narrate the reenactment of real events in a
docudrama, combining interviews that have the look and feel of modern
Reality TV with techniques that were used in the earliest silent films,
like the use of title cards to indicate the passage of time and the
shifting focus of the story. A brilliant job by Linklater in creating a
noir comedy like "What's the Trouble With Harry?" while sustaining a
clear trace of the human tragedy and sadness that underlies the story.
WARNING: Don't miss the opening! It's a grabber!
<|_=00=_|>
Casting Jack Black in the title role of this 2012 dark comedy turns out
to be a masterstroke on the part of director and co-screenwriter
Richard Linklater because the real-life character of Bernie Tiede is a
comically ambiguous figure not only sexually but more to the point, as
a jovial child-man personality beloved by his small Texas town of
Carthage while at the same time, strangely insistent in his constant
presence in their lives. His pointed need for universal acceptance and
unconditional love is what makes Bernie unique as a screen creation. It
takes Black's oddly discomfiting screen persona to make the character
work as a protagonist of closeted complexity, and in turn, he delivers
his most accomplished screen work to date. No stranger to Texas-size
guffaws intermingled with wry observations about human nature, the
versatile Linklater ("Before Sunrise/Sunset") tells this
hard-to-believe, true-crime story with both morbid humor and surprising
conviction.

Based on a seriocomic 1998 Texas Monthly article by co-screenwriter
Skip Hollandsworth, the plot revolves around the unlikely relationship
between Bernie, a relentlessly thoughtful assistant funeral director,
and Marjorie Nugent, recently widowed and one of the richest women in
Carthage. As Bernie becomes indispensable to the fabric of the
community with his acts of charitable kindness, his Broadway-style
choir solos, and his gentlemanly way of comforting widows in the throes
of their grief, the ever-scowling Marjorie is always ready for battle
with not only the townsfolk who impede on her life but even her
immediate family who can't stand her. Bernie, however, is able to
breakthrough her icy veneer with his cheery persistence, and their
relationship evolves into an unhealthy codependence to put it mildly.
As Marjorie lavishes Bernie with expensive gifts and luxurious
vacations, she grows increasingly manipulative in her need to control
his every move to meet her every need.

Even Bernie has his limits about what he is willing to do under her
iron fist, and needless to say, consequences ensue. For all the dire
consequences, Linklater keeps the mood buoyant with the insertion of
intertitles to signal what question the movie will address next and
with the brief interviews he includes with both actors and true
residents of Carthage, all showing their unqualified support of Bernie
through his burgeoning troubles. Much like Warren Beatty did in "Reds",
Linklater uses them as a cumulative Greek chorus who on one hand,
provide some of the film's biggest laughs, and on the other, illustrate
just how myopic and oppressive a small town can be in its rumor
mongering ways, so much so that Bernie's trial has to be moved fifty
miles away in order to allow the light of objectivity to filter into
the proceedings. As Bernie, Black finally has a multi-dimensional role
that fits him perfectly, and I would be hard pressed to identify anyone
else who could have played the character to the seriocomic depths he
achieves here.

Well into her seventh decade of movie stardom, Shirley MacLaine is not
particularly challenged in portraying Marjorie's sourpuss nature since
she's been playing variations on the same role since her turn as the
ornery Ouisa in "Steel Magnolias". However, in one key scene, she lets
loose all her insecurities that exposes the impenetrable cage in which
she has put the increasingly desperate Bernie. Linklater favorite
Matthew McConnaughey ("Dazed and Confused") plays the showboating
district attorney Danny Buck with gusto, although I wish he was reined
in a bit more to provide more of a contrast to the other two principal
actors. The movie is a fascinating meld of the Coen Brothers' "Fargo"
and Hal Ashby's "Harold and Maude" with an unexpected dose of
Christopher Guest's mockumentaries. While Linklater does not completely
avoid making Carthage the object of ridicule, he has made a black
comedy with surprising resonance when all is said and done, especially
when you see the real Tiede in an archival video clip at the end.
<|_=00=_|>
"Bernie" is a nice surprise by Richard Linklater and Jack Black - the
same team that brought you 2003's comedy hit "The School of Rock"; now
they have reunited for a different type of comedy - a dark one.

Black acts differently in this movie - more restraint, more focused,
and at times more intense than in any other film he's done before. His
humor here is low-key and not physical a feat done with his absorbing
performance. Here is a guy who is loved by everyone - who must be loved
by everyone, and who can never say no. It is both an interesting and
challenging role for him but he pulls it off in a great way - perhaps
paving the way to more challenging and dramatic roles in the future.
Compared to other comedy film actors who tried more serious turns, he's
not yet as terrific as say, Jim Carrey in "The Truman Show" or Adam
Sandler in "Punch-Drunk Love" - but he's on the right track.

Shirley MacLaine is also very different here - she has a sweet,
somewhat cheeky personality in many of her previous films of late, but
for this movie there's a cold, demeaning aura around her, and her
steely eyes sell it. Matthew McConaughey as the ruthless district
attorney has certainly improved in his acting range - just check out
the courtroom scenes.

I really appreciate the small-town setting of the film. The film is
told by ''interviews'' with the friendly small-town folk, giving a
quirky and homely feel to the film, while at the same time Linklater
smoothly meshes narrative flashbacks into it - which brings me to the
editing. The film moves at a strong clip and never feels rushed nor
draggy. The above-average screenplay has balances just the right amount
of screen- time to establish the story and characters, notably Bernie.
Just when you think the film is about to end - there's always another
interesting thing happening that keeps the audience glued.

Black and Linklater make a good, promising actor-director team. Perhaps
Linklater will be the key to unlock Black's potential in acting. Of
course, this is still a ''little'' movie - a low budget, and scarcely
any promotion at all... so hopefully word of mouth spreads just how
very good this dark comedy is.

P.S. I was not aware that the film is based on a true story. That made
the film even more dark and quirky than it was supposed to be.

Overall rating: 77%
<|_=00=_|>
Bernie (2011)

Don't you hate it when you see a funny movie and think at the end, wow,
that could have been so much funnier? This movie really is funny, and
Jack Black is kind of brilliant at being this man who has incredible
generosity and a quirky kind of social skill to be everyone's favorite.
And who ends up taking care of the richest woman in town, getting his
name on her will, and so on, as you can guess.

To get the gags and to give a sense of documentary reality, clips of
interviews with colorful townsfolk of all types are shown, and they are
some of the funniest moments. When these same people are shown again
and again there is a sense of welcome familiarity--an update on things
from a known face--but also a sameness to the movie. It falls into a
pattern. And it's a major part of the movie, with thirty of these
talking heads, so naturally the momentum of the main plot is slowed
down often. As the events become more extreme, the movie does not. It
plods along, relying on some great idiosyncratic acting and the weird
(and exaggerated?) East Texas culture.

But Black inhabits his character so well it's scary. The other big name
(the biggest name) is Shirley MacLaine, who doesn't actually have that
much to do (most of the time she is silent, just ominous or dour). And
she of course doesn't make it through the whole film (the trailer and
teaser give away too much on that score). The third name is Matthew
McConaughey, and he's predictably fun and funny, though he blends in
with lots of other unknown characters who are also fun and funny.

So it's the scenario, and some funny writing, that carries the day.
Well done stuff. Director and writer Richard Linklater is a curious
talent, a little all over the map but good at several things, including
just being offbeat enough to seem like the Indie director he once was.
His pair of movies "Before Sunrise" and "Before Sunset" are growing
into unlikely classics (I like them both a lot) and yet he is also
known for lesser comedies like "Dazed and Confused" and now this one. 

Yeah, see this for some good laughs. The beginning will seem a little
like a lame "Six Feet Under" episode, but stick with it. Black's
character is utterly convincing, and funny. A good time.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading Rolling Stone's account of the actual crime, framed by
the filming of this movie, I walked out of the theater disappointed.
The story of Bernie and Majorie is poignant and makes a good magazine
read but is not extraordinary or compelling enough for book-length
treatment or psychoanalytic examination. But it certainly could serve
as a great topic for a black comedy sprinkled heavily with suspense and
allowing the cast plenty of poetic license. In planning for such, Jack
Black and Shirley MacLaine are perfect casting choices. Instead, here's
what you get: Thirty, maybe FORTY percent of BERNIE is interviews with
actual townsfolk or actors which, instead of supporting the storyline,
plot, etc., actually interrupt what little movement is achieved. If
sometimes humorous, the cuts to interview eventually become groan
inducing and are so pervasive that the dramatic portions take a
backseat. Its like watching an A&E documentary with short "dramatic
reenactments" peppered in. As such, neither Black nor MacLaine get to
"take off" and get no chance to inhabit their characters. There's nary
any effort to depict how Bernie and Majorie "bonded". Comic
opportunities with their road trips are wasted. In short, BERNIE should
have been seen as a great opportunity to entertain us with good
writing, acting and movie making. Instead, it chooses to take very
seriously a real-life tragedy that simply does not rise to the level of
great stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
Although uneven and at times unfocused, Bernie is the kind of movie
that hitches its wagon to the charisma of its star and goes along for
the ride. Jack Black plays a solicitous, generous assistant
funeral-home director in a small town who quickly gains the love and
respect of the town, particularly the elderly folks, as he immerses
himself into their lives. Black leaves the slapstick and crudity at
home and instead goes the route of Ben Stiller in Greenburg, although
not quite as dramatic, and he's really good in the role. In the end,
though, one might wonder what the point of the movie was, and for a
comedy - even a dark one - there are a lot of unanswered questions at
film's end.

Bernie arrives in town and lucks upon a job at the local funeral
parlor. He takes great care in making the deceased look as good as
possible, from trimmed eyelashes to the positioning of the hands and
head. Bernie takes his job seriously. He runs the funerals, leading the
mourners in song, reading from the Bible, and so on; he comforts the
widows and does all he can to ease their pain. He's a true find, right?

One of these old biddies is Mrs. Nugent (Shirley MacLaine), a despised,
bitter older woman who has money and no friends whatsoever. All
overtures to communicate and bond with Mrs.Nugent by the town are for
naught. Except for Bernie, who - as his custom - pays his respects
after the funeral to the new widow. After the second visit, she invites
him in, and over some time they become friends. The change in Mrs.
Nugent is remarkable; she is a nicer person and much happier. She and
Bernie go on vacations and other trips together. Finally, she feels,
someone who does not hate her.

Mrs. Nugent gets Bernie to quit his job at the funeral home and work
for her part time - essentially as a servant. Seems like a sweet deal
at first, but eventually she becomes paranoid that he'll leave her at
any moment, and he becomes concerned that she's turning into quite the
possessive witch. That, as the synopsis might tell you on other sites -
this is not a spoiler - induces him to perform a most heinous deed.

The story is told in the framework of a documentary, with on-camera
exposition provided by the town's denizens. Most are gossipy, but none
of them stand out as mean-spirited - just normal folks, as they might
say. About the only two characters who don't open up to the camera are
Bernie and Mrs. Nugent themselves. This little trick by director
Richard Linklater helps not only move the plot along but also serves us
sometimes conflicting information, depending on the source - even when
we see things with our own eyes.

The first half of the story is amusing, mostly about how wonderfully
generous Bernie is to everyone. And then the crime occurs, and the
various citizens react differently. But here's the rub - Bernie is such
a magnificent guy, there are some who don't even care if he IS guilty.
Star district attorney Danny Buck (Matthew McConaughey) has an
open-and- shut case, complete with a confession. All that remains is
the trial and the aftermath.

This is more of a character study - of Bernie alone - than anything
else. It could have been played for sharp laughs or even as a
suspenseful thriller. Linklater plays it more or less straight,
essentially saying, "Here's your man, here's what others think of him,
what do you think?" And indeed, what are we to think? There are some
head-scratching questions by the end. Here's a non-spoiler one: Why was
Bernie even in that town? Did he choose it randomly? Did he premeditate
the events that unfolded? Okay, three questions, but all valid. None
will ruin the movie for you. See it for Black and MacLaine and a
realistic look at small-town Texans.
