
Well this was a huge disappointment! I really liked the first Piranha
3D film so I was looking forward to this. This is a lazy, lifeless, and
pointless sequel that had no business being made. Instead of being so
bad it's good like the first film, this one is just so bad it's
terrible. For starters, the first Piranha film actually had likable
characters and somewhat of a plot to it. This one has the thinest of a
plot you can get and the characters are incredibly lifeless and not
even the main character serves any purpose to the film at all. You'd
think that with this being a sequel they would amp up the gore and
deaths, but the deaths in this one are actually tamer than the first
and there's actually less of them. The film tries to be much more of a
comedy this time around by adding more humor which all of it falls
flat. The humor in this film is so awful and outdated thats it's hard
to believe anyone over the age of 13 actually wrote this film. But,
what really annoyed me about this film is just how damn stupid it is!
The writers couldn't even come up with a decent way to get these
characters in a situation to set up a death scene and instead have them
do something really stupid or come up with a really stupid reason to
get them in a situation that sets up a lame death. The acting here
(even though it's suppose to be bad) is bad even for a B-Movie. And
just when you think you will finally get a payoff after sitting through
55 minutes of crap, the film presents you with a lazy and totally
underwhelming climax that is filmed so poorly that most of the time you
can't even tell what is going on (And this really sucks because that
was the highlight of the first film). And then, the film presents us
with an ending so stupid and forced that even those who can suspend
their disbelief the most will be left frustrated with just how
incredibly stupid the ending is. The film is a short (althought it
feels much longer) 70 minutes followed by 11 minutes of credits that
include a ton of lame outtakes. I can now see why The Weinstein Company
decided to only release this in barely any theaters and just put in on
VOD. I still can't believe how bad this movie was. The director John
Gulager shouldn't ever be allowed to be involved with a film ever again
because this guy can't direct to save his life. Alexandre Aja who
directed the first film actually understood the material he was working
with. John Gulager had no idea what the hell he was doing and just
decided the wip out a POS to make a quick buck because he obviously
didn't care about this film at all and just wanted to get paid. As far
as the cameo's in the film go, Gary Busey is only in the films opening
scene and is wasted (the only thing we get to see him do is light a
cow's farts on fire). Ving Rhames cameo doesn't just feel forced, but
also is just really pathetic and sad to watch. The only positive things
I can say about this film was that David Hasselfhoff's scenes are
actually chuckle worthy and there's a lot of gorgeous nude women on
screen many times. Even though i'm only giving the film 1/2 a star,
that feels generous. This film could've really been a blast and fun
just like the first one was, but it really is just an atrocity of a
film that not even the biggest fans of the first one will enjoy. If you
are looking for a fun B-Movie, go rent Piranha 3D and just forget that
this film even exist. Piranha 3DD tries to so self-award of itself that
it just ends up being exactly what it's parodying.
<|_=00=_|>
This was more enjoyable than I thought. The acting was not as bad as
some of the reviewers say, and for a film that doesn't take itself
seriously, neither should you. I actually didn't mind the movie being
short, after all it was always hard to stretch the storyline more than
an hour.

The whole movie was more like a spoof, and somehow I felt Christopher
Lloyd, Ving Rhames and of course The Hoff all added to the fun. The
Hoff in particular was great. His role really suited him. He also had a
bit more screen time than I would've thought.

I didn't see this in 3D, and I'm not sure if that would've changed my
rating. There was a fair bit of gratuitous nudity, but I suppose the
gratuitous gore balances that out.

So if you find gratuitous blood, body parts and boobs (and screaming)
hilarious, this movie is worth a look over a beer and popcorn. And if
you don't like it, it will be over before you know it.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. Just wow. Let me note that I enjoyed the first Piranha, and went
into this movie with an open mind (despite horrible reviews). What a
absolutely HORRIBLE sequel. The time around, the directors have
obviously run out of ideas. It was a sequel to a movie that didn't need
a sequel. You can only get about 1 good movie from a concept as simple
as piranhas, and that's all but clear, seeing as this movie sucked.
First of all, this movie is disgusting. You see a fat mans bloody ass,
the tip of a severed penis, gore galore (and not the good kind...the
bad overly bloody fake looking kind), and a piranha that swam up a
girls v- a-g. At points you could tell the piranha's were puppets, and
the puns were cheesy one liners at best. The whole film made me
nauseous, and the deaths of several people were fake as fake can be. A
guy gets decapitated from a yellow flag ribbon...yah...that's right...a
guy's head gets severed (though the neck bone and all), by a piece of
plastic that is soft, stretchy, only about 1 nano-meter thick, and not
even sharp. There is also a guy who gets skewered through the eye,
because of an explosion that caused a trident to have impeccable aim
falling from the sky. Also, one of the main characters has enough aim
to skewer a bag of chips and a piranha perfectly from a good 20 feet
away, which begs the question of how he is a lifeguard. The whole film
makes no sense, with a girl who has a seizure while having sex (due to
a piranha inside her)only to come back to life once a guy severs his
pen!s, and the kick- butt black man from the first movie has a shot gun
leg. And finally, the ending sucked to an extreme. The piranhas have
now begun to walk (or really hop), at the end, only to cut off the
entire head of a really nice innocent kid, just for a cheesy one liner
that wasn't even funny. In short, this movie is complete an utter crap.
Avoid watching (unless you like stupid, gross, and fake movies).
<|_=00=_|>
Lake Victory is a dead place after the tragic events with the invasion
of prehistoric flesh-eaters piranhas. 

In Cross Lake, Merkin County, the greedy Chet (David Koechner) opens
The Big Wet Water Park against the will of his stepdaughter Maddy
(Danielle Panabaker). When the van of her friends Travis (Paul James
Jordan) and Ashley (Meagan Tandy) is found in the water and the couple
is missing, Maddy and her friend Shelby (Katrina Bowden) miss them and
they talk on a wooden deck on the lake; out of the blue, they are
attacked by piranhas. 

Maddy visits the specialist in piranhas Mr. Carl Goodman (Christopher
Lloyd) with her former school friend Barry (Matt Bush), who works at
The Big Wet, and with her former boyfriend, Deputy Kyle (Chris Zylka),
and they discover piranhas in the lake. However Chet refuses to
shutdown his water park and soon his costumers are under the attack of
the fearful piranhas.

I saw "Piranha 3DD" on DVD and I found it a gross and funny B-Movie,
with stupid but hilarious characters. The director knows the B-movie
formula, with teats and beautiful girls. Christopher Lloyd has become
stereotyped as the mad scientist in American comedies in the end of his
career. The uncredited Ving Rhames afraid of the water and shooting
with his leg is comical. But David Hasselhoff steals the movie making
fun of himself as the most famous lifeguard of all times. If you
shutdown your brain, you will certainly enjoy this movie. My vote is
six.

Title (Brazil): "Piranha 2" ("Piranha 2")
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be the absolute nadir of genre film-making. A 20 million
dollar budget to produce this crap, ten decent low budget features
could have been produced for the same price. 

Performances that range from embarrassing to "oh my god what was that?"
Visual effects that set the digital revolution back about ten years.
Some of the worst one liners in the recent history of cinema and a
silly extended but unfunny cameo from the Hoff himself.

All this negative criticism is coming from someone who rated the first
one an eight, but the director here seems to have fallen asleep in his
chair and forgotten to pen a halfway decent script. A handful of
pre-pubescent boys out there may find the barrage of boobs enough to
sustain its scant 80 odd minutes - I didn't! Utter garbage!
<|_=00=_|>
No decent story, writer must have finished it over coffee break. Its
all about crazy ways to kill a crowd within minutes. Tries very hard,
at times, to be entertaining. But, apart from 2 or 3 moments, its a
no-show. 

Trust me, if you don't want to see senseless killing, you may think of
something else to do. Anything but this. Next they will come up with
Piranha-3. And to extend the series further, someone on phone will
claim that Piranhas can talk or fly or can change shapes or whatever.
Time to wrap this up. I don't think this subject can get downhill
anymore than it already has.
<|_=00=_|>
The first Piranha surprised audiences in 2010 with its wit, over the
top nudity, and excessive gore. It never took itself seriously and had
a solid cast. This follow-up to the 2010 movie is just honestly
embarrassing. It had all the elements that the first movie had, but
everything goes horribly wrong with incompetent direction, laughably
bad acting and dialogue, and some of the cheapest gore effects I've
ever seen.

Why is this movie so bad? Let's start with the plot - there is none. If
you can buy the premise that piranhas are going to go in underground
lakes and somehow end up in a water park swimming, well then I have a
bridge to sell you as well. The characters are all terrible. The one
couple in the van early on exists only to die, no other purpose, no
even attempted development. Yet later we see other characters mourning
their disappearance, only it's forgotten 5 minutes later. The one scene
that people will probably remember involves a girl that had a piranha
swim up her lady parts (and somehow survive) only to bite her
boyfriend's penis during intercourse. Trying to be inventive there, but
really just shows the lack of any restraint with this movie. But even
if you think the plot and acting are atrocious, at least there will be
good gore, right? Wrong. The gore effects can be described in one word:
cheap. The special effects with the piranhas are terrible too - you
wonder where they spent $20 million on this movie. Not to mention, the
inevitable massacre scene is shot so poorly that it has zero coherence
and lacks any punch. It looks like they just poured some red dye in the
pool and hired a few extras to flop around. The massacre scene in the
first film had some of the best gore effects I'd ever seen. This is a
joke of a follow-up.

So which actors disgraced themselves for a paycheck? There is a cameo
by David Hasselhoff where he's basically mocking himself, but you have
to wonder what is going through his head when his character mutters
"Welcome to rock bottom." I wonder if the irony is lost on this man.
David Koechner is just obnoxious and terrible. Jerry O'Connell played
this type of character way better in the first film. Every time
Koechner was on screen, I was just wanting him to get killed off
already.

And also surprisingly, we don't even get any good nudity. All the
extras they hired for this movie look like washed up strippers. None of
the cute female leads goes topless. Maybe they ran out of budget and
couldn't pay them enough to do it.

I have a feeling that 95% of the people involved in this film will ever
have meaningful work in Hollywood again (thankfully). Don't waste your
time.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd heard bad things about Piranha 3DD, and being in the midst of a
worldwide economic recession, decided not to see it at the cinema,
instead saving my hard earned cash for something more 'worthwhile'.
What a fool I was: as I have just found out (better late than never),
even devoid of its extra dimension, Piranha 3DD is the perfect tonic
for these depressing timesa sexy, hilarious, rip-roaring,
breast-filled, blood-soaked sequel, the very epitome of 'huge dumb
fun'.

The majority of the action takes place in and around The Big Wet, a
water park where big-breasted women go free, and where a special
'adults only' area allows for naked bathing (meaning that the film is
packed with gratuitous female nudity from start to finish, with most of
the nekkidness coming courtesy of surgically enhanced strippers,
judging from all the 'tramp stamps' on display). In an attempt to keep
costs down, unscrupulous owner Chet (David Koechner) intends to fill
the park with water pumped from an underground lake, unaware that it is
teeming with voracious prehistoric piranha. Chet's tasty step-daughter
Maddy (gorgeous Danielle Panabaker) and park employee Barry (Matt Bush)
realise the danger, but are too late to stop the carnage.

From the opening scene in which a dead cow farts piranha eggs and Gary
Busey gets chewed to pieces, to the gore drenched finale that features
the best
'severed-head-between-blood-drenched-surgically-enhanced-breasts' gag
ever committed to film, 3DD is unashamedly crass, and all the more
entertaining for it. If you thought that things couldn't get more
unsophisticated and tasteless than the regurgitated penis from the
first film, then think again: in 3DD, a young couple have sex only for
the boy to wind up with a piranha chomping on his pecker (giving rise
to one of the funniest lines of dialogue in the film: 'Josh cut off his
penis because something came out of my vagina').

Director John Gulager, who also gave us the fun Feast films, clearly
has a blast throwing as much lunacy on the screen, and his game cast
all join in on the fun no matter how insane it all gets: Ving Rhames
trying to overcome his fear of water is laugh-out-loud, a fat park
employee humping a water outlet and getting a fish stuck up his ass is
highly immature but very funny, David Hasselhoff sending himself up
something rotten is simply legendary, and the final unexpected death is
awesome! What a shame that so many viewerspeople clearly in need of a
stickuptheassectomyhave failed to embrace the silliness.
<|_=00=_|>
The aquatic penis munching and poor character choices continue in
Piranha 3DD, the even goofier follow-up to Alexandre Aja's surprisingly
entertaining 2010 remake, the former of which has just been made
available on DVD and Blu-ray. Although containing plenty of both
intentional and unintentional laughs, "3DD" often mistakes
simple-minded schlock cinema for parody and balls-out nonsense for
organic fun. The Weinstein Company/Dimension Films should strongly
consider packing this disc with a six pack of beer combo offer.

It's really no surprise that an influx of gratuitous nudity, celebrity
cameos (as game and often ironically funny as they often are) and heaps
of sheer camp can do little to raise Piranha 3DD to the level of its
predecessor. It's even less mysterious as to how populating this film
with jerks, ditsy bitches and pure morons (who are seemingly all
bipolar judging by their mood, rationalizing and motivations) fail to
make for a compelling B-movie. 

Of course we expect these human-shaped hunks of piranha fodder to make
poor decisions for the sake of crimson water, but when it seems like
the writers are intentionally trying to craft most of these individuals
with the IQ of water-logged bait worms, it comes off more as insulting.

A year has passed since the massacre at Lake Victoria, and following an
eradication campaign that led to the complete and utter contamination
of the water, the town's tourist industry has been likewise
extinguished. But to paraphrase Dr. Malcolm from Jurassic Park, "life
finds a way" and a newly evolved school of prehistoric nasties has
managed to elope to another nearby lake, which unlucky for its
inhabitants, supplies the local water park called "The Big Wet." Oh and
in case you were even going to ask, these piranha have mutated to
thrive in chlorinated water or something, so the attack may, in fact,
commence without delay. 

Of the things to enjoy in Piranha 3DD, it's bar none the extended
cameos from Ving Rhames (complete with a shotgun leg) and a
booze-swilling, out-of-shape David Hasselhoff whose self-lampooning is
the only effective instance of parody to be found in this sequel. His
reluctant "celebrity appearance" at the opening of "The Big Wet"
amounts to nearly all of the films involuntary chuckles and his bond
with a young boy (which forms because he is the only one who doesn't
recognize him as the star from Baywatch) is close to the stuff of
comedy gold. 

Aside from those fleeting moments of inspiration, Piranha 3DD is missed
opportunity after miscalculated set-piece. I mean, if you've managed to
devise a scenario where a fish has managed to enter (and live in) a
woman's vagina and then manage to overlook the chance to make an
"eating out" joke, the filmmakers have failed us all. As far as high
camp is concerned, you could certainly find more blasé fare, though
that doesn't excuse this film from being an unnecessary sequel that
seems to think its audience consists of horny preteens who have never
seen a proper parody rather than horror buffs looking for a faithful
and lovingly crafted follow-up to Piranha 3D.
<|_=00=_|>
Has anyone ever watched Severance? Now there's a beautiful example of a
horror movie with just the right amount of pitch black humor. I loved
it!

This total piece of garbage? Oh, please! I have to dig deep into the
Steven Seagal archive to find movies that are equally uninspired. It
doesn't work as a horror movie (no suspense!) and it sure as hell
doesn't work as a comedy (bad, lame and sick jokes at best!). The worst
part is that only after one hour does the movie decide to wanna be a
comedy as well. Until then they desperately try to create suspenseful
scenes, in which people almost get bitten. It's like saying: "Well, we
just can't seem to make it scary. Let's turn it into a travesty. Ideas?
Anyone? Say what? A fish inside of her...? And then it bites into
his...? Awesome! Let's do this. Quick, guys, before I get sober again!"

Do you know what made the first one good? It packs a brutal punch but
still finds the time to tell a story and develop some characters.

3DD fails to deliver on all fronts. Just awful!

Let me put it this way: The director wanted 'Lethal Weapon 2' but out
came 'The Naked Gun' instead. Only without ANY quality and no Leslie
Nielsen. See what I mean?

Stay clear of this movie!! You were warned!!!
