
I was lucky enough to see The Spectacular Now at an advance screening,
and walking out, I had the unmistakable feeling that I can only
describe as a "good movie buzz." You feel a little light on your feet.
You're thinking not only about what you've just seen, but how it
relates to you. It's a heartfelt story that distills all of the beauty,
tenderness, and apocalyptic bleakness of youth into a 95 minute love
story that portrays teenagers in the most honest way since the films of
John Hughes. The Spectacular Now won Sundance's special jury prize for
acting and within minutes, the reason for this becomes apparent.
Beautiful, naturalistic performances all around. Miles Teller portrays
Sutter Keely with charisma and an effervescent charm while Shailene
Woodley imbues Aimee Finicky with a tender shyness that makes her
character incredibly endearing. When you watch the two of them on
screen together, their chemistry is not just apparent, it's
intoxicating. And it's not just a movie held together by its
performances. Scott Neustadter and Michael Weber have written an
incredible screenplay with flawed yet likable characters you can't help
but root for, and James Ponsoldt has delicately directed the script to
make his best movie to date. The Spectacular Now is much more than
another indie darling. It has breathed life into the "teen movie" genre
by treating its characters with maturity and honesty. This is the
coming of age movie of our time.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Coming-of-age teen dramas with a
comedic flair that speak to that tumultuous period of life are rarely
worthy of discussion. The exceptions hover film greatness: Rebel
Without a Cause, Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Dazed and Confused, The
Breakfast Club, and Say Anything ... Along comes young director James
Ponsoldt and his adaptation of Tim Tharp's novel. While not perfect and
falling just short of the level of those classics, it is nonetheless a
welcome addition and quite interesting.

It's tempting to call Sutter (played by up-and-comer Miles Teller) a
happy-go-lucky kid. He's the frat boy type - quick with a quip, smooth
with the parents and girls, and the envy of the masses. That term would
be misapplied to a kid who not only is never without his flask, but
also gives them as gifts. He uses his wit and booze to dull the pain of
his aimless existence. We see his lackadaisical efforts at completing a
college admission form, and it's used as a plot device to track
Sutter's progression through the film.

Brie Larson is terrific as Sutter's perfect match ... right up until
she decides that his philosophy of living in the now (even
spectacularly) doesn't leave hope for much of a future. After an
extreme night of drinking and partying, Sutter gets awakened while
laying in a neighbor's front yard. Shailene Woodley (The Descendants)
is Aimee Finicky who recognizes the popular Sutter, even though he has
no idea who she is. Slowly, the two connect on a level previously
unknown to either ... some good, some not so wise (just like real
teenagers).

This couple of opposites learn much from each other, and soon enough,
Sutter is confronting his long last father (Kyle Chandler). No real
surprises what he discovers, but it's a life lesson that must be
learned. Sutter seeks more from his remaining family - a big sister
(Mary Elizabeth Winstead) who escaped the grind, and a workaholic mom
(Jennifer Jason Leigh) doing her best to provide hope for Sutter.

The script is co-written by Scott Neustadter and Michael Weber who also
wrote (500) Days of Summer. John Hughes and Cameron Crowe proved they
could present teen dilemmas in an entertaining way, and this one
follows the same structure. This is a dialogue-heavy story as Sutter
and Aimee struggle alone and together to figure out life's next steps.

I will say that for the first few minutes of the movie, I found Sutter
to be the kind of guy that I would typically have no interest in. Tip
of the cap to the filmmakers and Miles Teller for turning that around.
It should also be noted that Shailene Woodley is so naturally
affecting, that her character never comes across as anything but
sincere. Given the state of today's mainstream coming of age stories,
this one definitely deserves a look and could gather some attention
come awards time.
<|_=00=_|>
Growing up I always had a pretty utopian view on what being a teenager
in high school would be like. Once I got there, it was nothing like
what I had thought, and plus we had no kids that looked like James
Spader. Just because high school was not like a John Hughes film didn't
make it a bad thing, I just think I would have had more fun at those
schools than mine. Now a day in the perfect world is not what people
want, they want something real, and in "The Spectacular Now" it feels
like what being a teenager feels like today.

Now being a middle-aged man this is only a guess, but it sure feels
right on. Sutter (Miles Teller) is that guy everyone likes, you know
the life if any party. Sutter is enjoying every minute of high school,
great times, and a great girlfriend named Cassidy (Brie Larson) to top
it off. Sutter also likes to drink, and not the typical teenage
drinking, he goes as far as carrying a flask and even putting alcohol
in anything he drinks. After Cassidy breaks up with him, Sutter drinks
a little too much and ends up passed out in the front of a house, not
his own. He is found by Aimee (Shailene Woodley), who knows Sutter from
school. Sutter starts to gather interest in Aimee, but all the while
hoping to land back with the women he thinks he wants in Cassidy. Aimee
has never had a boyfriend and quickly starts to fall for Sutter hard.
With school ending soon, Sutter is all about the now, and has no idea
what his future will hold, he never wants to grow up, because where is
the fun in that? 

A lot of people think that their high school years were their highest
point in their life. I mean you have no worries, no responsibilities,
you just live life. Everything is easier, including love because how
innocent everything is. Sutter and Aimee are at that point where things
start to move, college and life are in front of them making them have
to make choices they never had to before. Written by Scott Neustadter
and Michael Weber (500 Days of Summer) from the book by Tim Tharp, the
story is a real coming of age story. I know that is a bad description,
but where so many coming of age stories fail, this one soars. It is all
perfectly directed by James Ponsoldt (Smashed), who set the movie in
his home town of Athens, Georgia, and even shot the film in locations
he grew up in. It all comes together by the flawless performances by
Woodley and Teller who are perfect for each other on screen. I
sometimes think what it would be like to grow up in this day and age,
well I think I just got to see what life is like today and like this
movie it looks spectacular.

Brian Taylor 

http://the2cinemen.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
A high school romance between an alcoholic, party boy and a more
reserved, shy, girl. This movie did an exceptional job of hitting
reality. Everything about this movie was believable, and all the actors
fit their roles. This movie had a similar feel in style to Ruby Sparks,
in that at the heart it was a romance, but there was a lot more too it.
Family drama, fear of the future, alcohol, and even friend drama were
all in this, just like most teens experience.

In a Q&A afterwords an audience member asked why this was such a
idealistic school, and why it didn't have any bullying and the truth
is, because even though those exist, most schools don't have a serious
problem with it.

Another audience member said they didn't recognize anyone in the movie,
and that the lack of makeup made it feel more real. While the lack of
makeup is true, this movie has quite the cast list.
<|_=00=_|>
You know when you see those movies and you say they just don't make
these anymore. Well this is that type of movie. Joining the ranks of
the best teen movies ever made and possibly the most honest of the
bunch The Spectacular now is absolutely brilliant. The film centers on
Sutter played charmingly by Miles Teller a charming teenage alcoholic
who after a breakup with his girlfriend Cassidy befriends a painfully
Naive young girl names Aimee played effortlessly by the mega talented
Shailene Woodley. Both of the characters are so complex and so is their
story. Like so many other films concerning this age group it is coming
of age but unlike most others it doesn't fall into any clich√©s and
offers no easy answers. Equally moving, touching, hilarious and even a
little shocking this film is painfully genuine. A true testament to the
choices and experiences that shape you as a person. Miles Teller is
brilliant as Sutter he's charming and damaged you go back and forth
between loving and hating him and easily relatable sometimes in the
worst ways and very reminiscent of a young John Cusack in his hey day.
Shailene Woodley is so confident in her portrayal of Aimee so naive,
vulnerable and insecure desperately in search of acceptance and love
because of her home situation. But that's not where the great
performances end. Mary Elizabeth Winstead as Sutter's sister Holly
steals her scenes, Brie Larson as his girlfriend Cassidy, Jennifer
Jason Leigh as his hard working mother Sara, Kyle Chandler as his
father and just the whole cast feels so real. The Spectacular Now isn't
just the bets film of the year it's an incredible experience. It's the
type f film you leave haven't learned something. A film that inspires
you to make changes. 5/5
<|_=00=_|>
I found The Spectacular now to be a very refreshing movie to watch.
We've all seen the coming of age high school romance blahblahblah thing
before, but the film takes you where you didn't expect it to go, and
that is one of the qualities that makes it a great experience.

Miles Teller and Shailene Woodley are fantastic, particularly Woodley.
I don't know how you can't be a fan of Teller, he is his usual self in
this one and adds even more depth to himself. Woodley's as real as it
gets in her performance. I didn't notice it until my second viewing in
terms of how natural she was, but she was terrific.

Those two are already great to cast as leads, but it's always fun when
the casting for anything is just all around fantastic. Tamper your
expectations a bit because it's all about the leads in this one, but
Coach Taylor, Bubbles, and Saul Goodman are great in the limited time
they are on screen. I mean, Kyle Chandler, Andre Royo, and Bob
Odenkirk.

The emotional impact of this film really hit me towards the end, and
certain factors are very predominant in the movie that you definitely
do not expect. Without spoiling anything, I'll just say take away a lot
of the laughs you were expecting, and brace yourself for the feels and
a very serious tone. This may damper some who came for this because
it's from the dudes who did 500 Days of Summer, but It's still very
good and the movie is actually funny in the spots it wants to be.

Overall, I think this is absolutely a film you want to see. Where the
story goes widens the appeal of this movie by far in my opinion, so if
you were just not going to see it or judged it by the trailers, don't.
Give it a shot.
<|_=00=_|>
The Spectacular Now is a coming-of-age drama mixed with young love
story about Sutter (Miles Kelly, an interesting, uncynical young find
who can communicate a lot of different sides to this character without
coming off too fresh or overwrought) who starts off obnoxious (but in
the way that is believable to the way that teenage boys can get
obnoxious) and in the wake of a failed relationship meets a good, sweet
girl, Amy, and a natural relationship unfolds in their senior year of
High School. While this is going on, he has a problem with alcohol -
which extends to Amy - and about a past history that Sutter has to
confront with a dead- beat father. 

The film that is very well written (based on a book but having that
same quality in the dialog and story turns that speaks to their
intelligence at navigating conventions) without being show-offy, and
performances that feel raw and sensitive and try to avoid a lot of
clich√©s (or that Hollywood way of showing teenagers "like we think they
are" as opposed to how they are closer to life), and a strong dramatic
story about young love and overcoming the flaws in yourself. 

It's not perfect, and has a few little things with the alcohol element
to the film that irked me (which is much bigger than what you may
realize seeing the trailer, much more actually, it's really a companion
piece with this director's previous movie Smashed which is also about
boozing), but its real and honest and that's so rare to find in a
teenage story like this. Woodley has a long career ahead of her, and
has that great distinction of being naturally pretty, dramatically
intuitive, and yet is not SO pretty that you can't accept her as a cute
teenager girl (or... dare I say Mary Jane in the next Spiderman movie?)
Go see it - it's not top 10 of the year great, but it's great in the
ways that matter for a story like this.
<|_=00=_|>
I am so glad I caught a screening of this film because I will
definitely be seeing it again after it's wide release.

From the writers of 500 Days of Summer, which we all know wasn't just
your average love story, comes a seemingly average love story in The
Spectacular Now. But it isn't very average, and that's the beauty of
it. The story observed here carries a genuine believability to it that
allows a gushy teenage girl who searches for the perfect love story to
be able to relate to the film in a way that isn't as unrealistic as
some other popular romance films. 

That's just what romantic films are right? Another relationship you
wish you had? Not exactly the case here. Don't get me wrong, that is
what this film is, but it really is much more than that. This film not
only portrays an enviable romantic relationship between boy and girl,
but also a relationship between man and life, man and the world, man
and the now, and that's what allows it to be so powerful.

The acting across the board is great. I have found that movies like
this that have relatively undiscovered actors and actresses as the lead
roles allow for a good connection from the audience to the story,
especially when the story is a good one like it is here.

Live in the now, because there's no way to know you're in the good ole'
days until you've left them. And yes, I did steal that from The Office.

8/10

EDIT: Saw it a second time with a Q&A with Miles Teller after the film.
Got to talk to him about 21 & Over real quick and he ended up talking a
lot about how The Spectacular Now was somewhat rushed, shot in only 25
days and the most of the actors had met only minutes before shooting
some intimate, emotional scenes such as the scenes with Sutter and his
mother and father. Apparently the first words Kyle Chandler ever said
to Miles were in character with the camera rolling. Also, *possible
spoiler* but apparently the scene with Sutter and Amy's first bond
moment at the party by the pond was a 5 minute rolling shot with the
camera man holding a simple 35mm walking backwards, and at the end of
the scene the camera man fell and they kept the "arsty" shaky shot of
the sky in the film. 

He was a really cool guy and was very humble and just pretty normal.
Told me that filming 21 & Over was a "sh*t fest" and I said "must've
been fun though!" he laughed and said "a fun, fun sh*t fest bro."

Really cool guy.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to see this film to soothe my wife. She usually loves
adolescent romance stuff, so I thought I would suffer through it.
Instead, I ended up liking it more than she did.

The thing about romance films and adolescence films in particular is
that the kids are presented like complete idiots, like aliens from the
planet Dumb. In order to keep up with this superficial image all other
characters must act the same. The result is a complete fake.

The Spectacular Now is nothing like that. From the start it portrays
teens as complex, intelligent, troubled about their past and their
future, maybe laid back alcoholics or chronically shy or overachievers
with low self esteem. And they all interact like human beings. It's a
joy to see a film like this.

I also loved that they didn't use the cheap tricks of romance movies in
general. No evil adversary to define the character as good, no ultimate
goal to direct the entire film from point A to point B, no artificial
accidents or catastrophes to move people out of their stupor, no
highschool cliques, no Facebook or Twitter dramas. Instead, normal
people doing normal stuff, trying to get over themselves and have a
happy life.

The film was not without its flaws. It was a little too slow, for once.
It only lasted an hour and a half but it felt like more. Also there is
a somewhat seamless jump of a few years that takes the viewer by
surprise (I still don't know when it happened). Also, I am a bit grumpy
today, the film probably deserved a 9. Go watch it!
<|_=00=_|>
The Spectacular Now is a deep exercise in emotion and character, and a
bold step in the right direction for teen films, which are becoming
decidedly more naturalistic, involved, and human. Last year, we had the
wonderful Perks of Being a Wallflower, and not two months ago we had
the strong and touching The Way, Way Back. Now we are graced with such
a wonderful look at a teenage relationship plagued by fear, alcohol,
understanding, nervousness, and uncertainty that it almost hurts.

Miles Teller will be a recognizable face for some. He appeared in a
faceless role in 21 & Over this year, which I regarded as tasteless
comedy that was so heavily focused on partying and excessive
raunchiness that it became almost as nihilistic as Project X. Here, he
is the same character but given a personality and a believable,
realistic touch. Teller plays Sutter Keely, a high school senior
obsessed with living in the moment. He parties hard, drinks constantly,
anything from keg-beer to hard liquor concealed in a flask, works in
men's clothing, and discards the future as something that will just
happen. He is woken up on the lawn of someone's home by Aimee Finecky
(Shailene Woodley), a pleasantly average girl who is up early at 6am
getting ready to do her mother's paper route. Aimee's mother has been
controlling her for a long time, even potentially corrupting her
college ambition because her idea of "living in the now" is paying
bills and keeping the home straight.

Sutter and Aimee strike an immediate friendship. He introduces her to
the luxury and openness of partying and drinking. She introduces him to
the wonderful and eclectic world of Manga. The film beautifully
illustrates how both parties were welcomed into a different little
world they would've never experienced if it wasn't for the other person
- and Sutter's alcoholic tendencies.

But overtime, Sutter's alcoholism worsens. He clearly drinks to get
drunk, but remains functional when doing it. He starts to shun his
relationship with Aimee, being fully aware he is bad news and not the
guy she needs. She has long accepted his drinking habits because she
can see the person he is at the core - caring, harmless, and immensely
loving. Meanwhile, his ex-girlfriend comes in the picture every now and
then. Her name is Cassidy (Brie Larson) and - rather than being a
typical queen bee or spiteful ex-girlfriend - it's evident she ended
their relationship based on the frustrating inertness Sutter posses. He
doesn't have a plan and the only thing he can do when you ask him about
it is take a sip out of his personalized flask. There's no future
there.

Teller and Woodley have impeccable chemistry here. Woodley, once more,
refines her role as the supporting girl with natural beauty in more
ways than one like she did in Alexander Payne's The Descendants. They
are only guided by the smooth, sensitive direction of James Ponsoldt,
whose last film, simply titled Smashed, took a look at a young, first
grade schoolteacher who was beginning to fall prey to alcoholism. Her
addiction became so brutal, she lies and says her incident of throwing
up in class is related to her untrue pregnancy and not a piercing
hangover from the night before. The film showed how one's addiction to
the bottle can compromise their life. Ponsoldt's follow-up effort is
more about showing how the bottle (or flask in this case) can
compromise a perfectly beautiful friendship.

Writers Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber make this a surprising
tone piece, one that is more concerned with the loquacious behavior of
teens rather than the raunchy behavior. A tremendous scene focuses on
Sutter and Aimee walking away from a keg-party on the beach, deep into
the woods, talking about their homelife and their favorite things in
life. The scene is a four-to-five minute static shot and develops
character nonchalantly and not forcefully, allowing for the naturalism
to just sneak up on the audience. This isn't the only scene with Sutter
and Aimee that tackle beautiful touching and realistic instances. Take
for example the scene where they go to have sex. "Take your shirt off"
she innocently says, and after he does - successfully exposing an
ordinary male body - she follows, exposing another ordinary body and a
white bra. When he giggles, just because of the circumstances, she
tenderly covers up her bare midriff with her arms, to which he responds
by lightly removing them from her stomach. They proceed to have sex in
a blissfully unpredictable manner, deeply fixated on the bodies and the
intimacy - not the nudity. This is another bold instance that will
resonate and be remembered by teens more-so than the average sex scene
in comedies, where breasts and hilarity are the only thing that
matters.

The Spectacular Now's one minor missteps results when it gets too
caught up with Sutter's story of being raised by a single mother who
closets information on his father that it kind of forgets that Aimee is
a major character here as well. We know Aimee's mom is controlling
because she says so, but never do we see Aimee stand up to her or take
action to her mother's dictative qualities. Equal humanization would've
been divine seeing that humanization alone is one of the film's major
goals.

The film concludes on yet another bold note, cementing that Neustadter
and Weber didn't want to say too much. Much of the film operates on
deep, character emotion, so attaching an ending that neatly packages
things up would've been a complete contradiction to the film's focus. I
initially thought some would be upset with the film's ending, saying it
cheats the audiences, but if they were brave enough to seek out a
smaller film of this magnitude, they shouldn't be disgruntled that it
plays different instruments than other films of the same genre.
