
To watch actors dryly deliver page after page of plot that no one
comprehends or is interested in while they imitate the acting style of
old Hollywood noir films and stoner comedies is not why I go to the
movies. Paul Thomas Anderson is a great filmmaker when he uses his own
voice, and thankfully this film is the only exception to that.

Unless you're a superhuman, you won't have the memory (or attention
span) to understand the plot. It's as if it's deliberately convoluted,
like Anderson doesn't want us to know what's going on, or at least
doesn't want us to care. Yet this is not the case because of the scenes
that dwell on nothing else but dialogue whose only purpose is to read
plot to us and maybe put us to sleep. 

There isn't any character beyond caricature. I don't relate to this Doc
character beyond the his relationship with his ex-girlfriend which is
the only thing that one can possibly invest emotion into, albeit this
is not an emotionally driven story. The characters are supposed to be
funny but I just found them bizarre. 

That being said, there is something about the overall tone and
production design of the film that sticks. The meandering nature of the
era is there and while we've seen many similar films about the 70s this
film is just different. It's ambitious in the way that it's so plain
but also strange, only many will have a hard time deciphering between
art and bullshit. It's bullshit to me because there wasn't anything for
me to take from the film. It was more "this is kind of weird" but to no
end.

I would not recommend this film to anyone unless you are a cinephile,
in which case you just have to see it because it's Paul Thomas
Anderson. I feel bad for anyone who naively walks into this film
looking for something to enjoy and laugh at. Parts got laughs but they
were widely dispersed in a film that just felt like it wouldn't end.
Being the fan of Anderson's that I am I feel like this film was a waste
of time. Even if you end up liking it (which I personally would not
understand) you'll see what I mean.
<|_=00=_|>
Paul Thomas Anderson's seventh film, Inherent Vice, is a surreal,
kinky, and stoned epic of mammoth proportions. The fact that Anderson
decided to be the first director adapt the wild prose of Thomas Pynchon
is an achievement in of itself. Set in Los Angeles in the early
Seventies, Larry "Doc" Sportello (Joaquin Phoenix) awakens from his
stony stupor when his ex-girlfriend (Katherine Waterston) tries to find
sanctuary from her real-estate mogul boyfriend, his wife, and her
boyfriend. In traditional noir fashion, not all is simple as it sounds
as a bigger presence is involved with a cavalcade of characters thrown
into Doc's world; a heroin-addicted sax player from a surf-rock band
(Owen Wilson), a coked- up dentist with the libido of a rabbit (Martin
Short), and an LAPD officer/failed actor (Josh Brolin) busting anyone
with long-hair and forming a strange love/hate bond with Doc.

The film is a hybrid of comedy, romance, and mystery inspired by the
major film-noir flicks of the 1940s, such as Howard Hawks' The Big
Sleep and Fritz Lang's Ministry of Fear, except that rather than having
Sam Spade chain smoke cigarettes and drink gimlets, you have Doc
Sportello smoking endless joints and drinking tequila zombies.
Anderson's perspective of Los Angeles in the Seventies has been shown
before in Boogie Nights in all its hedonistic glory, but in the case of
Inherent Vice, he manages to capture the mood of L.A. in an earthy, yet
naive glow that mirrors the energy and fear that erupted in the wake of
the Manson murders and the rise of Nixon's silent majority. No matter
how you slice it, Anderson's film fits in the tapestry of other L.A.
noir classics like Chinatown and L.A. Confidential, but with the
comedic antics of a Cheech and Chong film or an episode of Gilligan's
Island. 

Joaquin Phoenix gives a brilliantly-nuanced performance as Pynchon's
anti-hero private eye. Unlike his last collaboration with Anderson on
The Master, Phoenix reigns in his eccentricity with a relaxed, yet
stoned, approach and manages to not make Sportello into a clich√©d
character of the counterculture thanks to the sharp wit and dialogue of
Anderson's screenplay. Josh Brolin's performance as Bigfoot Bjornsen is
brilliantly comical and tragic as he tries to walk amongst the
Indica-smoke streets with the power and authority of Jack Webb from
Dragnet. Katherine Waterston gives a remarkable performance as Doc's
former flame as she gives a raw and naked performance that is both
sympathetic and mysterious. Despite being on film for only ten minutes,
Martin Short gives a performance of comedic gold with the eccentricity
and insanity as equally as funny as his alter egos like Ed Grimley and
Jiminy Glick. Among the other actors who fill out the film, Reese
Witherspoon as an assistant D.A. and Doc's part-time love interest,
Benecio Del Toro as Doc's confidant and Owen Wilson each give solid
performances. 

Jonny Greenwood, in his third collaboration with Anderson as composer,
creates a score that mirrors the Noir-fashioned sounds of Jerry
Goldsmith mixed with the psychedelic sounds of the Laurel Canyon music
scene of the early Seventies. Also, the music of Neil Young's Harvest
album adds an emotional depth to the romantic interludes between Doc
and the women in his life. Robert Elswit's cinematography is as
excellent as his previous collaborations with Anderson as he manages to
capture the long, strange trip into the underbelly of Los Angeles.
Inherent Vice may be at times incoherent and somewhat dense as
Pynchon's novel, but it is one hell of a trip!
<|_=00=_|>
I was fortunate enough to see this at the 52nd New York Film Festival;
the centerpiece of this year's festival, Paul Thomas Anderon's Inherent
Vice (adapted from the Thomas Pynchon novel of the same name) will no
doubt divide critics and audiences. It certainly divided me.

Immediately, the plot starts rolling. "Doc" Sportello (Joaquin Phoenix
in his '70s glory; mutton chops and scraggly hair), a pot-head private
detective, is disturbed by the arrival of his ex, Shasta Fay (Katherine
Waterston). She clues Doc in on a mysterious plot to kidnap a
real-estate mogul (Shasta's current boyfriend) for his money, and the
scrappy "gum-sandal" ventures off into the the beach-towns and
high-hills of California. Receiving help/hindrance from his "friend" at
the LAPD, Lieutenant "Bigfoot" Bjornsen (a clean-cut, hippie-hating
Josh Brolin), Doc rubs shoulders with no shortage of strange and
potentially-dangerous characters. And that's about as much plot as
you're going to get out of me. Doc's adventures are almost episodic,
and connecting the dots from A to B to... G? can be difficult. I have a
somewhat-strong idea of how things unfold, but the specifics are lost
on me. And I even read the book! However, I believe this wasn't
entirely accidental.

In describing Inherent Vice, Anderson has made reference to all kinds
of classic detective stories and zany comedies. On the Hitchcock
classic North by Northwest, he said "Tell me again how he (Cary Grant's
Roger Thornhill) gets to the middle of the field with a plane after
him? I can't. How does he get to Mount Rushmore? I don't know, but it's
great." PTA goes for a film that is high on emotion and fun situations
and low on intricate story. I describe it by saying "There's a lot of
story, but so little of it matters," and that's in the best way
possible. Doing so allows Anderson to focus on his eclectic cast of
characters.

Phoenix's Doc is most-definitely comparable to The Dude (Jeff Bridges)
of Big Lebowski fame, but he's a far more human character than "The
other Lebowski". He has opinions, he's far more active and realistic
than The Dude. He has moments of violence (one in particular that
shocked me and, I'm sure, the other thousand people in the theater).
The trailer's narrator mentions something like "Doc's not a do-gooder,
but he does good." An apt description. Complimenting this burnt-out
detective is Josh Brolin's charismatic badge-holder, "Bigfoot". Brolin
plays Bigfoot as a straight man whose anger can burst out in comical
brilliance. Even ordering pancakes with this guy is funny. The
supporting players are equally on their game, but they have such little
screen time it really boils down to Phoenix and Brolin. Martin Short
appears for a scene that many I know are already considering to be the
film's funniest; Owen Wilson plays a great character whose very nature
I find hilarious; Katherine Waterston is excellent as Shasta, being
morose and desperate. The others among the star-studded cast are all at
least "good", but I won't delve into their roles, which are more like
cameos.

Now, it may come into conflict with what I've just said, but to me,
Inherent Vice isn't particularly hilarious. The trailer certainly makes
it appear to be an almost Tarantino-esque crime/comedy, but truly the
tone is more melancholic. It's not a "downer", but the pale, sort of
washed-out cinematography of Robert Elswit is far more subtle and
restrained than something like Pulp Fiction or Anderson's own Boogie
Nights. This came as a shock to me, as many were touting Inherent Vice
as (paraphrasing) "Anderson's most-anarchic film since Boogie Nights".
Perhaps so, but it never reaches that film's levels of kinetic energy
and life. It's the yin to Boogie Nights' yang, to get metaphorical.
It's more The Master than Magnolia, to keep the comparisons coming.
However, with Inherent Vice, Anderson applies some of his hallmarks in
new and interesting ways. His incredible tracking shots in Boogie
Nights are replaced with more subtle long takes that will sometimes
follow the action, but often stay nearly-static on a conversation for
minutes. This immersive, unflinching approach allows you to become
invested in the performances.

Similarly, Anderson's knack for putting together a soundtrack is tested
in a new way. Rather than blaring '70s rock tunes, the Jonny Greenwood
score and licensed tracks are included in a far more subtle way.
Greenwood's score ranges from classical noir-ish tones to beach-like
guitar music. It's an interesting choice, and one that didn't
immediately strike me upon first viewing.

Some have called Inherent Vice meandering, and I'd say they're
partially right. Depending on how they mean that. It wanders like a
lost dog, yet clearly there's a story going on. It's fragmented, maybe
like Doc's mind as he's stoned, but it isn't exactly a first-person
view we're getting. It's odd, to say the least, but not in an
in-your-face way. It's odd because you'll walk out likely-unable to
connect the story, but you'll remember distinct scenes. Even those
scenes though, may have subverted your expectations.

My "review" here probably sounds inconclusive, and that's because I'm
still not positive how I feel about Inherent Vice. It's definitely
worth seeing; Anderson is an incredible force with a pen and some film
stock (nicely, we were shown 'Vice on 35mm; referring to the Film
Society of Lincoln Center's slogan, Anderson said something like
"Tonight, film really DOES live here!"), and I truly believe him to be
one of the all-time greats already, with only seven films under his
belt. So hopefully my little pontifications have been of some interest.
Able to hold you over until this goes limited in December, or for some
of you, wide in January. Temper your expectations, take the trailer
with a grain of salt, and I'll see you on-line when it opens again--I
need to see it again!
<|_=00=_|>
Not more than 10 minutes in, excited as I was to see this movie, I
thought maybe I was loosing my smarts...

There is no plot, way too many cameos, it pushes way to hard to be
something cool, but falls flat. Lots of non cut a aways....which made
it seem like I was watching an acting class. Just didn't feel natural,
the pace of duologue awkward, and Phoenix, much as I love the guy, he
looked like he was acting... I left feeling like i was back in High
School, forced to watch a movie for film class, trapped, couldn't
leave, no bathroom break, looking at the clock, and hoping there would
not be a quiz later, Cuz I couldn't make sense of what the f*** I was
watching....very disappointed...
<|_=00=_|>
Larry "Doc" Sportello, an unorthodox private-eye (Joaquin Phoenix)
smokes a joint in his California shore-house--the waves on one side,
and a whole mess of bad vibes on the other. Then in walks his ex-old
lady, Shasta Fay Hepworth (Katherine Waterston), brining some of those
bad vibes with her. She's with a married man now, Mickey Wolfmann, and
his wife wants her help to make off with his money and get him sent to
a loony-bin. Through a cloud of marijuana smoke, Doc barely manages to
mumble, "I think I've heard of that happening once or twice." Agreed,
Doc, that does seem pretty predictable. But then Wolfmann disappears
and so does Shasta and the body count begins to climb. What follows is
one of the most unique and unexpected trips of 2014. Inherent Vice
throws the audience into the year 1970. Everyone wants to just smoke a
joint and love each other, but they can't seem to stop the wave of
paranoia that's overtaking them. As Doc delves deeper into the
seemingly infinite mystery that unravels, neither he nor the audience
is ever sure who to trust. One of these beautifully morally ambiguous
characters is Lt. Det. Christian F. "Bigfoot" Bjornsen (Josh Brolin),
who gets plenty of screen-time and spends most of it eating frozen
bananas and railing against hippies. Brolin and Phoenix's on-screen
chemistry is off the charts, and the complicated relationship between
their characters is explored through scenes of extreme hilarity. At the
same time that I was questioning Bigfoot's moral compass and how
dedicated he really is to justice, I was watching the screen through a
filter of tears from laughter. 

Many have been calling Inherent Vice a combination of Chinatown and The
Big Lebowski, and that's a pretty accurate description. It blends the
beautiful look and complicated plot of neo-noir films with an almost
surreal kind of stoner-comedy and it meshes perfectly. It also pulls
from retro-noir films like Sunset Blvd. and utilizes a large deal of
narration. Noir films usually blend exposition with character
development in their narration--The male protagonist narrates and his
beautifully crafted sentences highlight how tough he is and how fed up
with everything he's become--but Inherent Vice takes a different route
entirely. Sortil√®ge (Joanna Newsom) narrates and exposition comes
packaged together with an almost sentimental poetry that adds a layer
to the loving, yet distrustful view of the Californian landscape.
Sortil√®ge is a highly mysterious character that takes a lot of the
narration verbatim from the novel by Thomas Pynchon that this film is
based on. She's a seemingly omniscient, psychedelic chick who navigates
the screen on a physical plane, but also enters and leaves Doc's mind
through voice-over when she sees fit. 

Paul Thomas Anderson directs and this is another movie to add to his
seemingly air-tight repertoire (Boogie Nights, There Will be Blood,
Magnolia). He lets the actors navigate the screen with minimum editing
and allows entire dialogue scenes happen in one take. This is a risky
move-- cutting is usually used to increase humor or add suspense, but
somehow this movie manages without it. I can't stress enough how
humorous Doc's interactions with other characters are. And the more
tense scenes thrust Doc into danger with little to no warning and
effectively get the heart racing. 

I'm sure a lot of people will complain about the complexity of the plot
in this one. As Doc makes his way through a haze of pot smoke,
conspiracies, and government corruption more and more names are dropped
and exactly what's going and on and who's pulling the strings becomes
almost impossible to make out upon first viewing. This is because plot
takes the backseat to the film's powerful entertainment value and its
themes. When I watched it for the first time, I honestly didn't know
what was happening after the half-way point, but I barely had time to
think about it because I was so engrossed by the little episodes that
the movie presents. One of my favorite scenes features Doc and Shasta
in a flashback as they run through the rain with Neil Young's "Journey
Through the Past" playing in the background. The music takes priority
over the dialogue and I wanted to weep for this beautiful moment that
was now lost in the "city dump" of Doc's memory. It cuts to Doc
navigating the same area in present day and the vacant lot that him and
Shasta had been running freely through has now been occupied by a
building shaped like a Golden Fang--a symbol of the criminal
organization that plagues the characters throughout their journeys.

And that, to me, is what the movie is all about. The simplicity of
blissful ignorance being slowly replaced with growing knowledge of the
darker side of the American dream. 1970 is the perfect year for this
drama to unfold--characters can't stop talking about Charles Manson,
and distrust of police is just beginning to evolve. Something wicked
has been lying in wait and the movie takes place in that small window
where optimism began to shrink back in the American mind and people
began ignoring hitchhikers and locking their doors. The insane
complexity of the plot only serves to highlight this more--great evil
is operating under the surface, but Doc can never be totally sure how
much of it is just in his head, or who is pulling the levers. Or maybe
everyone's got a lever except for him. It's tough to tell when you're
lightin' up a J and just trying to help somebody out.
<|_=00=_|>
Break out a pen and paper cause so much is going on it's hard to follow
watching this for the first time. So many characters, so many plots
surrounding sub-plots surrounding plots, you could easily lose your
place if your attention wavers in the slightest. I felt like I needed
to make an outline to make sense of it all. The movie is very hard to
follow and needs a second viewing to fully grasp the whole thing.

My first impression is much like Joaquin Phoenix's character, a hazy
pot soaked mind looking for a murderer with Bigfoot's help. No, no,
he's looking for someone who was kidnapped by the Golden Fang
Consortium of Nazi Heroin Smugglers led by dentist cokehead Martin
Short. Or was he looking for Bigfoot's partner Littlefoot? I don't know
nor do I care. One scene seemingly does not follow from the next and
the whole movie became a big jumble I had no interest in solving.

All I have left in my brain are foggy recollections of details to what
felt like an infinity of plots and characters. While some scenes have
'A Big Lebowski' vibe to them and were entertaining, they're sadly not
enough to make me sit through this a second time. And I'm afraid
without that second viewing, I'll have to live with just a brief
glimpse of what might or might not be a good film. But if you have the
2h:22m to do it all again, muster up some patience, make a pot of
coffee, and take good notes (some help at 1h25m). And for you truly
bold viewers out there, reading the book might help.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's start this off with a reward offering. I'll pay anyone $20 if
they can explain to me, in detail, the full plot and synopsis of
"Inherent Vice," front to back. That's a good place to start, eh?

The New York Film Festival press and audiences given the gift of a
first look at Paul Thomas Anderson's hotly anticipated "Inherent Vice"
starring Joaquin Phoenix and an all-star cast. Based on the novel by
Thomas Pynchon, rumors flew about for months that the novel is a tough
read and that the translation from book to film could be confusing in
the hands of an auteur filmmaker like Anderson. Well, to a certain
extent, they are absolutely correct. "Inherent Vice" is such a mind
trip, one that will probably make you want to enroll in drug rehab by
the end credits. What's amazing about it is even though you, nor I will
probably "get it," and there's way more questions than answers at the
moment, I cannot wait to revisit it again to start seeking those things
out. You can see a little of Anderson's entire filmography.

Our "basic synopsis" is the story of Larry "Doc" Sportello, who in the
1970's, begins to search for his missing former girlfriend. The other
things that accompany those facts, is a hallucination of laughs,
satire, and magnificent filmmaking abilities.

Let's start with thanking the good Lord for Paul Thomas Anderson and
his love of 35mm. Even though the screening did not show the film in
that quality (the public screening however did), there's a charm that's
still embedded within all of Anderson's film that pays homage to all
the classic films of history. This is also partly thanks to Academy
Award winning DP Robert Elswit, who can frame a scene to tension and
success. Much like his past efforts such as "The Master," "There Will
Be Blood," and "Boogie Nights," there's a magnitude of a visual
master's exercises on display. He crafts provocative and engaging
players that fully mesmerize you for its duration. 

On the top of his game, once again is the genius that is Joaquin
Phoenix. He's hilarious, and nothing like "The Dude" as many will
compare him. He's a three-dimensional character with layers, fully
invested in the story, and best of all, utterly believable. In a
quirky, detective mystery such as this, you expect some outrageous
behavior that can sometimes run false. Call me crazy, I believed nearly
all. Phoenix is pure, ludicrous, and keeps you fixated entirely. You
couldn't ask for a more dependable thespian at this time in cinema.
There's even a weird but obvious comparison to Freddie Quell, as if
Freddie's illegitimate child got into drugs and missed out on the
alcoholism.

The supporting players are as rich as any Anderson creation before.
Finally back to large ensembles, where he has shined time and time
again in films like "Magnolia," he assembles one of the strongest casts
seen in 2014. Like a rock and roll star, Josh Brolin owns the stage
with a savage and vicious dedication to his character, he stands out as
one of the finest performances of the year. I adored him, and it might
be his finest outing yet, and something that could ring him some much
deserved awards attention. 

If you don't know her name yet, Katherine Waterston will be on the
tongues of many for years to come. As Shasta Fay Hepworth, you'll find
an enigmatic character with an entrancing and sensual aura. At times,
feeling like a mixture of Rollergirl from "Boogie Nights" and Claudia
Wilson Gator from "Magnolia," Waterston is one of engrossing and
compelling characters of the year. It's an awards worthy performance,
baring the soul of a performer that understands her purpose, Waterston
is plain magnificent. 

You will get big chuckles from Benicio del Toro, Owen Wilson, and
Martin Short, all of which make their mark. In one strong scene, Jena
Malone leaves her mark while Michael Kenneth Williams could have set
the screen on fire with more time than what he was given. Sasha
Pieterse (fabulous as always), Reese Witherspoon (reminding us why we
loved Johnny and June Cash together so much), Eric Roberts (yearning
for a larger role at this time in his career), Joanna Newsom (our new
female Morgan Freeman of this generation's narrators), and Maya Rudolph
(who needs to team up with hubby more often), all shine.

Why the world isn't recognizing Jonny Greenwood as one of the most
innovative and talented composers yet is beyond me. Once again,
everything on-screen is elevated by his eerie composition and whimsical
take on the 70's aura. Not to mention, the soundtrack may be THE album
of the year. You can't tell me that you won't have that on repeat
seconds after viewing. You also get a richly realized costume design by
Mark Bridges and honest sets by David Crank and Amy Wells. It's a
technical masterpiece for sure.

"Inherent Vice" is such a strange demon. Hard to say you love, if you
don't comprehend it all yet, but with enough magic to keep coming back
for more. It's one of the best offbeat and pecuilar monsters seen on
screen this year, and you just might fall for its potent nature.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a private detective in Los Angeles who
investigates the disappearance of his former girlfriend and a rich real
estate tycoon.

"Inherent Vice" has a super incoherent plot. Not only do I not
understanding a thing while watching it, I still don't understand it
even when I paused the film and read the plot synopsis regularly. So
the detective investigates the case, then somehow the case is
completely forgotten because a prostitute tells him about a shipment of
heroin. There are just far too many characters in the film, each one of
them doing their little bit in the story that does not glue together as
a whole. Every subplot gets mentioned them dropped, without any
satisfactory resolution. This film is a tremendous waste of time!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at the cinemas because it looked like an interesting
detective mystery with old fashioned noir roots and intertwining plots
and characters. These sort of films are among my favorite and it
doesn't hurt that I am a fan of Paul Thomas Anderson to begin with. I
personally look at him as being one of the more exemplary filmmakers of
his time with classics such as Boogie Nights and Magnolia. His style is
much like Scorsese's and his execution reminds me of Kubrick in many
ways, cementing him in Hollywood as a force to be reckoned with. 

So you can imagine my disappointment when this film nearly bored me
into a coma.

This film was so bad, that I not only walked out on it- reflecting on
how I could have spent ten bucks on such drivel- but also wept at
having wasted nearly 100 minutes of my life on absolute trash. Yes,
that is right...100 minutes and this film seemed like it wasn't
anywhere near the finish line. Just scene after scene after scene of
some of the most boring, expository dialogue ever delivered by a
million characters who have nothing to do with anything but talk about
a plot that would require the viewer to trip out on DMT to even
understand it. The structure makes no sense, the constant reminder that
our main protagonist "Doc", a whacked out PI who never showers, is just
a second rate version of "The Dude" from The Big Lebowski becomes very
tedious, and that voice-over....why? And I thought Blake Lively's
voice-over in "Savages" was bad. The voice-over in this movie did
absolutely nothing for the meandering plot. It was nothing but a bunch
of incoherent, pseudo- intellectual ramblings by a stoner hippie girl
that grates your ears worse than a cheese grater. I always thought a
voice-over should serve as sort of the icing on the cake. It should
only accent the story, but with the viewer still able to comprehend
what is going on even without it. If you want examples, watch any film
by Scorsese. That's how you do it. This movie was just a train wreck. A
7.3 rating? I am still wondering how anyone who wasn't a doper of the
70s could call this an "entertaining movie". The only decent thing in
this waste of celluloid is Josh Brolin's performance as the banana
loving, wise cracking detective named Big Foot. However, one
performance cannot save a pointless, never-ending drug fueled mess of a
film.

Unfortunately Paul, you struck out this time. Absolutely terrible.
<|_=00=_|>
"I never remember the plots of movies. I remember how they make me
feel."

- Paul Thomas Anderson, 10/5/2014, "On Cinema Masterclass", New York
Film Festival

It's nearly impossible to talk about Inherent Vice, PTA's new stoner
noir, without providing some context.

It's crucial to know, for example, that the film is an adaptation of
Thomas Pynchon's 2009 novel. It's also crucial to understand the
novel's subject matter and setting: a sprawling conspiracy, which may
or may not exist, that involves a real estate mogul, hippies, the LAPD,
and a heroin cartel named the Golden Fang, all against the backdrop of
Southern California in 1970, the year after the Manson Family Massacre.
Some familiarity with Pynchon's literary output¬ñboth his prose style
and unique narrative structure¬ñis helpful as well, almost required.
Finally, to really grasp Inherent Vice, it'd be useful to know PTA's
relationship with plot, which can best be understood by reading the
quote above and thinking about the trajectory of his career (a career
marked by films that have become more and more "plotless").

So, when we put all of this together, what do we get? To a large
degree, we get exactly what we should have expected: a filmmaker
creating a nearly-flawless adaptation of a nearly-impossible-to-adapt
author. Wacky humor, a never ending stream of new characters (some of
whom are neither introduced nor explained thoroughly), dialogue that
sometimes feels like it's written in code, abrupt jumps between
characters and scenes, unapologetically deep cultural references, long
and wordy voice-overs, seemingly random occurrences that don't tie
together, and a continual sense of paranoia that grows from the viewer
(or reader's) inability to decipher what's real and what's imagined.
Make no mistake, at the center of Inherent Vice is PTA's unyielding
dedication to Pynchon's vision and his desire to put that vision, in
full, on screen.

But, PTA's decision to remain so faithful to Pynchon's imagination
comes with its faults. The only character we really feel invested in is
Doc, the stoner, private eye protagonist played by Joaquin Phoenix
(Phoenix is in almost every scene and deserves another Oscar nomination
for his fantastic work). The other characters end up feeling
peripheral, almost like they exist only to drive forward the narrative
of Doc's detective search rather than exist as individual characters we
should care about. Even Doc's love interest, Sashta, who shows up at
Doc's house in the first scene and asks for a favor that sets in motion
the goose chase at the heart of the film, is difficult to care about.
Her presence in the film, while strong in certain moments, doesn't seem
to stick because it's so ephemeral, dreamy, and enigmatic.

This is a flaw sometimes overlooked in novels (see DeLillo or Foster
Wallace in addition to Pynchon), but it often distances viewers when
done in films. More importantly, it's a criticism totally inapplicable
to PTA's previous films. Boogie Nights and Magnolia also centered
around ensemble casts, but in those films the viewer deeply cared about
each and every character, whether it was Quiz Kid Donnie or
pornographer-turned-speaker- salesmen Buck. The difference: PTA
creating his own characters from scratch versus PTA capturing another
artist's vision in uncompromising fashion.

It's also important to remember that many of Inherent Vice's viewers
haven't read the book. I can't imagine how wild of a ride Inherent Vice
will be for them. It'll certainly be a confusing experience, somewhere
between trippy and surreal, almost Lynchian in its opaqueness and lack
of narrative continuity. Perhaps it can best be summed up by the words
of a girl who sat behind me at PTA's "On Cinema" talk at the New York
Film Festival the day after Inherent Vice's world premiere: "It was
good, but don't ask me to tell you what happened." This confusion and
general inaccessibility will turn people off, much like The Master left
some people enamored and others disappointed and unfulfilled.

Another important piece of context surrounding Inherent Vice, as always
with highly anticipated films, is the prism of expectation. Many people
predicted (and, I think, hoped) that Inherent Vice would be a return to
form for PTA, a Boogie Nights Redux of some sort. They anticipated that
the similarities between the films¬ñ1970's content, drugs, an ensemble
cast¬ñwould unlock a time machine that catapulted us back to the earlier
stages of PTA's career. Others, myself included, thought the film would
split the difference between The Big Lebowski and L.A. Confidential,
perfectly balancing the stoner laughs with tense and mystery-driven
drama. These expectations were only furthered by Warner Brothers'
decision to release a late and deceptively cut trailer, which I can
only assume was a marketing decision made in reaction to The Master
losing money at the box office.

But, the simple reality of PTA's films is that they are so good and so
unique precisely because they can't be predicted. In that sense,
Inherent Vice is no different. It's a ludicrously ambitious film
crafted by a director who appears more interested in challenging
himself as a filmmaker than anything else. It's a film that's long on
dialogue but short on plot (shortest on plot of all PTA's films, which
may shock some people, especially those who weren't fond of The
Master). It's a film that, for two and a half hours, takes its viewer
on a journey, leisurely meandering through a certain time and place,
all while fluctuating in tone from romantic to paranoid to stoned.
While Inherent Vice is neither what some thought it would be nor what
many wanted it to be, it's exactly what it is, and more importantly,
perhaps it's exactly what it had to be.
