
So what we have here is another Nazi's are bad film. Indeed a dozen or
more of these types of films are made a year. There has not been any
Nazi's since the 40's, we have much more serious current issues at play
right now but Nazi's are still the most terrifying threat to humanity. 

The problem with these films and in some cases documentaries is that it
has become self parody. Just like a Doco I saw on Hitler and how he
apparently suffered from flatulence. 

So now we have German soldiers killing zoo animals. Why would
professional soldiers, headed by a vegetarian, animal loving Fuhrer
want this to happen? The Nazi's were also the first to outlaw
vivisection but in this film they are all for it. 

Some other stuff happens too, we see a virtual remake of Schindler's
list, the usual hiding Jewish people thing. 

But most of all we see a Politically Correct Hollywood make another
boring film about Nazi's.
<|_=00=_|>
The Nazis were the first to outlaw vivisection; yet we are supposed to
believe what this movie tries to tell us? Watch "The Greatest Story
Never Told" and "Hellstorm". We have only been given one side of the
story by Hollywood/the media. Remember - the victors write the history
books. Now with the internet, we have access to the truth. We no longer
have to depend on those with an agenda to tell us only one side of the
story. Those two documentaries are available for free on youtube. So is
"Marching To Zion". All fantastic films. Thank goodness for the
internet, where we can do our own research.....but it is up to us to
search for it.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a fan of WWII history - factual and flights of fancy. And I am an
ardent animal lover. And I have found Jessica Chastain a satisfactory,
often great! - cast member in movies in the past.

So what could go wrong? It's hard to pinpoint, and painful to have to
say it, but this movie felt "icky" to watch. I felt as if my psyche had
been violated in some way, even "poisoned," if that's not too strong of
an analogy. Granted, I didn't "enjoy" Schindler's List, either! But at
least it, and other holocaust-ish movies, felt as if they were
presenting something useful. Maybe not healing, per se, but some
quality of the human narrative that moved us in some way. They felt
honest. This one just upset me, and creeped me out, without offering
any of what I could call a redemptive quality.

If I may be permitted to say, "The Zookeeper's Wife" felt like a prime
example of the cinematic criticism of "gratuitous." Gratuitous violence
does not equal reality (yes, I know, horrifying violence was WWII's
theme). And gratuitous depression and grim horrors do not equal pathos.
At least for me.

I have no doubt that all the producers, the director, the actors, all
are wonderful people in real life. I have no doubt they worked really,
really hard on this. And while you may love it (some IMDb voters seem
to have), know that at least one prime candidate for an appreciative
audience member (me) found it awful, hurtful, and unclean.
<|_=00=_|>
WARNING, CONTAINS SPOILERS

I went in not expecting much and I got exactly what I expected... I
would have probably even had a better experience staring at a black
screen for two hours, eating my popcorn.

This movie lacked pretty much everything a movie needs. To say it was a
slow pace would be too much credit, there was no pace at all, it
dragged itself on with no direction, nothing happening, utterly boring.

So many silly goofs going on, like feeding pigs with garbage from the
ghetto... garbage from a ghetto? What garbage, they'd eat everything
till the very last scrap. Or another idiotic scene near the end of the
movie where Lutz makes Rys lock his mother up, after they just walked
through the tunnel... that would take you back to the broken down door
in like 1 minute... Why would Lutz even bother at all to find out how
many Jews escaped through the zoo, what does it matter at that point?
The war was over, all any Nazi would be interested in at that stage was
to get the hell out of there.

Watching this movie to me was certainly the biggest waste of time and
money in several years.
<|_=00=_|>
He (the jew) works systematically for revolutionization in a twofold
sense: economic and political.

Around peoples who offer too violent a resistance to attack from within
he weaves a net of enemies, thanks to his international influence,
incites them to war, and finally, if necessary, plants a flag of
revolution on the very battlefields.

In economics he undermines the states until the social enterprises
which have become unprofitable are taken from the state and subjected
to his financial control.

In the political field he refuses the state the means for its
self-preservation, destroys the foundations of all national
self-maintenance and defense, destroys faith in the leadership, scoffs
at its history and past, and drags everything that is truly great into
the gutter.

Culturally, he contaminates art, literature, the theater, makes a
mockery of natural feeling, overthrows all concepts of beauty and
sublimity, of the noble and the good, and instead drags men down into
the sphere of his own base nature.

Religion is ridiculed, ethics and morality represented as outmoded,
until the last props of a nation in its struggle for existence in this
world have fallen.
<|_=00=_|>
A film with promising actors and based upon an incredible true story,
however didn't fill up to its high expectations, sadly. 

Something that always troubles me, is feeling the need to speak English
with an accent to show that they're actually speaking another language.
It's in fact ridiculous, knowing that Johan Heldenbergh is pure Belgian
(and actually speaks English with a Flemish/Ghent accent) and Jessica
Chastain is pure American (her English/polish accent is just
ridiculous). Either you just speak plain English or you make the movie
with Polish actors. Besides that, Johan Heldenbergh, the zookeeper,
(world-renown in Belgium but his first introduction in a bigger US
production), was impeccable & perfectly casted.

The film didn't blow me away and was predictable from beginning till
the end. Fairly enjoyable for a regular weeknight if you have nothing
to do, but will most certainly be forgotten the next day - not anywhere
near classic holocaust movies like Schindler's list or The Pianist. Too
bad, cause everything was there (especially book & script) to make a
much stronger impact.
<|_=00=_|>
The story itself is very intriguing, and could make for a great,
interesting and touching film. Unfortunately, this movie fails on two
main aspects, and it fails so badly that makes the movie barely
watchable.

The most obvious is how unnatural the imposed accent while speaking
English feels. It constantly takes the viewer's focus away from the
actor's performances, and makes nearly every scene feel awkward and
like it is made for a children's movie, which is in stark contrast to
the main theme of the film.

Most importantly, the directing of the film is soap opera-like, where
the characters constantly have to verbally express their thoughts and
emotion, and explain situations through scripted dialogue, instead of
letting good performances and good direction convey them. In way too
many scenes, I found myself thinking about how more impactful the scene
would have been if some dialogue was cut. In many cases this was so
brutally obvious, it felt like a child was directing this film.

Case in point: A woman puts her son to bed and when she goes to close
the window curtains observes something atrocious take place outside.
The atrocity itself and the woman's reaction are enough to impact the
audience. But then we are treated with the dialogue "Mama, who's
shooting?" "Mama, they're shooting!" --> cries in mama's shoulder. This
is basic stuff here, we know they are shooting, we just saw it. The
only thing this next dialogue contributes to is to dilute the feeling
of the scene. And this thing goes on throughout the film, where things
happen and then people talk about the things we already saw happen.

I literally have seen better directing in the The Bold and the
Beautiful! At the end, it just bores and leaves the audience unengaged.
Except if you're my grandma. What a wasted opportunity!
<|_=00=_|>
It's never a good sign for a movie when there's more emotional response
being wrung out of animal deaths than human causalities and for Whale
Rider director Niki Caro's adaptation of Diane Ackerman's bestselling
book, it's even worse considering the subject material here is dealing
with a heartbreaking World War 2 tale of unimaginable loss and torment
during the Nazi occupied time in Poland of the 1940's.

The Zookeeper's Wife should be a film being talked about for end of
year awards recognition but this pretty, yet unfortunately heartless
drama fails to connect us properly to the plight of zoo managing couple
Antonina and Jan Zabinski, who during the course of World War 2 risked
their lives to save 100's of Jewish citizens escape the clutches of the
invading German forces after their beloved zoo was bombed to pieces and
taken over by Hitler's army in Warsaw.

It's a fascinating and seemingly not well-known true story that should
be ripe for the big screen, much like classic World War 2 big screen
pictures like The Pianist, Boy in the Stripped Pyjamas and even
Schindler's List but Caro and her team fail to ever ignite the story of
the Zabinski's to the levels it deserved.

Things start out promising enough as we're introduced to zoo life in
peaceful Poland before war breaks out but Caro and her cast that's
headlined by what could be normally ace actress Jessica Chastain's
worst lead performance as the kind hearted Antonina and another
terrible Daniel Bruhl turn as nefarious Nazi zoologist Lutz Heck (that
seems to be his by now type casted role), can't make things work.

With Chastain's distracting Polish accent in the forefront, poorly
established scenes of the Zabinski's and their interactions with their
house guests and just a general sense that we're never getting the best
out of what the story should be delivering, The Zookeeper's Wife ends
up being an experience that leaves us feeling rather empty, even though
we clearly understand that what was done was nothing short of heroic
and heart-warming.

Final Say  

Bringing a worthy true story to the big screen, The Zookeeper's Wife is
a polished production that has failed to bring the passion and heart
the story deserved. With a misguided Chastain performance at the
forefront and little support from the ensemble as a whole, Caro's film
is a disappointment and one of the year's biggest wastes of potential.

2 food scrap bins out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
If you know what this story is about, you know it was a dark time in
history that doesn't make for a good time at the movies. Basically the
Germans shoot the animals and kill the Jews. The zookeepers wife helps
save as many of each as she can.

Jessica Chastain schleps this movie along on her back. Her English
Polish accent is often annoying. The casting of the children was
awkward. Her son was overweight, an unlikely condition after about four
years in a war starved country. The one year old daughter looked about
four.

The movie feels long and drags at times. There is a lack of emotional
involvement. You don't get to know much about those saved. There is a
scene at the end when there is nothing left to happen except for the
husband to return and you wait for the no surprise to happen.

There is no need to see this in a theater. It will play as well on a
home platform.
<|_=00=_|>
Jessica Chastain starrer "The Zookeeper's Wife" invokes mixed feelings.
The performances are uniformly first-rate. Daniel Bruhl, Belgian star
Johan Helderbergh and Jessica Chastain occupy the maximum screen- time
and they put in their best to sustain viewer attention.

The aesthetics are worth a mention too; the film looks rich and
convincing in terms of production values. The brunt of WW II isn't the
crux of the film, hence there ain't much scope for digging into
full-fledged battle scenes. The story revolves around a couple who run
a zoo in Warsaw around the time of WW II, and use the premises to save
nearly 300 Jews during the invasion of Poland by German forces.

If you watch the film without reading the synopsis or watching the
trailer, you are going to get a different feeling altogether. This is
neither a movie that showcases its unbounded love for the world of
animals nor a well-developed war movie. It is somewhere in between.
While the virtues it professes are invariably good, director Niki Caro
is forced to employ certain clichés to make the overall viewing
experience better. The film's opening sequence is solid. But it would
have certainly helped knowing more about the POWs since the movie
spends a fair amount of time detailing their rescue. Once the couple
gets their act going, there is an obvious aimlessness in the
screenplay. The method of rescue is the same all throughout; the
nail-biter moments are highly lacking. The accents probably add to the
authenticity but are at times, a pain to keep listening to.

The frequent jump in chronology sans noteworthy moments makes the film
look slightly jaded on the whole. The climax can be predicted from a
mile away. A crowdpleaser sans tear-jerking, one tends to feel more
positive about the fact that the saga has finally comes to a close
rather than getting exhilarated seeing the couple reunite. Diane
Ackerman's book could have looked/felt positively different in the
hands of another seasoned director. In it's current state, the film is
still a fairly decent watch.
