
If the "The Hangover" and "Project X" were fused together to make one
new film, the result would be "21 and Over." From the same writers of
the Hangover, Jon Lucas and Scott Moore, "21 and Over" is a film that
taps into the college demographic by concentrating on some of the
issues that affect a lot of students throughout the United States 
binge drinking, beer pong games, sex and parties.

This comedy follows three best friends who have fallen out of touch
since graduating from high school and transitioning into college. They
try to meet up on important occasions, in this case Jeff Chang's
(Justin Chon) birthday.

Jeff Chang is finally turning 21 and with that age his best friends,
Casey (Skylar Astin) and Miller (Miles Teller), believe comes a new
stage in Chang's life; one filled with alcohol and girls.

Chang is a straight-A student who is preparing for an upcoming
interview to gain admittance to medical school. In addition to his med
school interview, Chang has to worry about his strict father who
expects him to follow his family's legacy in becoming a doctor.

For his 21st birthday, Casey and Miller surprise him and take him on a
night out. Chang agrees to go out on the condition that they only go
for a few drinks and then return home.

They start the night off with a round of drinks, but soon enough begin
club hopping, drinking alcohol everywhere they go. The night takes an
unexpected turn when Jeff Chang becomes unresponsive after
overdrinking.

Following the same formula used in "The Hangover," "21 and Over"
attempts to win audiences over by using a lot of crude humor including
many physical jokes.

Miles Teller (Miller) takes most of the spotlight with his
straightforward dialogue and comedic timing. Justin Chon (Jeff Chang)
further pushes the comedy bar with his use of physical humor. Skylar
Astin (Casey) plays the typical preppy and awkward sidekick.

Even with a pleasant cast, the film fails to present anything original
or creative. While it offers a few laughs, too many scenes are either
lackluster, or exaggerated, and some of the humor is forced.

"The Hangover" was much more imaginative than "21 and Over," which has
fewer plot twists and a rushed ending.

Even worse, the film reinforces all possible stereotypes including the
smart Asian, the party alcoholic white male, crazy Latinas, and out of
control college students.

The film is far from a masterpiece. However, if one day after a long
day of class or work you simply want to have a few brainless laughs
with friends, then "21 and Over" may be the movie for you.
<|_=00=_|>
"From the writers of 'The Hangover'" comes "21 and Over," another
comedy about people getting really drunk and then having a bunch of
crude and insane things happen to them. The difference here is that the
three leads are not trying to find their buddy; they're instead trying
to find their buddy's house. Oh, and the buddy whose house they're
trying to find has passed out and has to be carried from place to place
as the circumstances around them continue to get more dire.

Let's back up a bit. It's Jeff Chang's (Justin Chon) 21st birthday.
He's a pre-med student who has a big interview the next morning. His
best friends, Miller (Miles Teller) and Casey (Skylar Astin), have come
to his apartment to surprise him and take him out for drinks, as is the
American custom. Upon learning that the biggest interview of his life
is the next day, Casey does the responsible thing and says that those
plans can be postponed. Miller threatens to keep Jeff Chang up all
night if he doesn't come out. "One drink," we're told. Like that's
going to happen.

We don't even see Jeff Chang resist the party once it starts. He's
loaded by the time we've zoomed forward in time, and only gets worse
over the montage depicting the group's bar-hopping. Eventually, he's
passed out and time is running out to get him home and to bed. The
other two friends are from out of town -- they've all separated once
college started, I guess -- so they don't know their way around. They
spend nearly the rest of the film attempting to get him into bed before
7AM.

Doesn't this sound familiar? Three guys trolling around a certain
location in hopes of finding something, or someone? While doing so,
they find themselves in a bunch of "I can't believe it" situations,
while also learning things about the others that perhaps should have
been better left a secret. When Casey and Miller find a gun in Jeff
Chang's pocket, and later learn that he was arrested by the police, we
have a mystery on our hands. One whose conclusion is mishandled so
badly that I thought there must have been an alternate ending.

It feels too similar, I suppose. We've seen movies that contain
situations more shocking than this. When a guy gets run over by a
buffalo -- which we don't actually get to see, by the way, because the
camera cuts to black before impact -- that winds up being one of the
more "crazy" points of the film. Sure, a couple of other moments are
funny at the time, if only because at least one of the guys -- Casey --
doesn't seem like he deserved to be put through them, but they're kind
of bland for the genre.

There are a few running gags scattered throughout -- always calling
Jeff Chang by his full name being one of them -- but most of the humor
in "21 and Over" comes from the situations themselves. That can work
for some people. Many of you might find a lot of the film funny. It
wasn't for me. Watching stupid people act pretty stupid and have bad
things happen to them isn't the funniest thing in the world. Like I
said, there are a few good moments, but not enough of them to fill the
90-minute running time.

Moving away from the amount of laughter, which is about all that
matters in a comedy, the dialogue also leaves a lot to be desired. The
film was written and directed by "The Hangover" writers, after all, so
that should be expected. It's all profane and silly, and accomplishes
one of two things: exposition or forced character development. The
dialogue itself rarely attempts to make us laugh. That's a problem,
since there's a good deal of time spent walking from place to place.

It says a lot about our main characters that they wind up being chased
and/or hated by everyone they come into contact with. They wind up
being hunted by at least three groups of people as the film progresses,
all of whom show up seemingly at random. These groups are often
forgotten about until the script calls for them to pop up for a few
minutes. You forget, too, and it makes their reappearances seem to come
out of the blue. Sure, the film is about these three guys -- although
it's really two of them because Jeff Chang isn't awake for most of his
screen time -- but if you want to continue bringing back these
secondary characters, at least treat them with a little respect.

I'm sure that all of these actors have talent. Justin Chon turns in the
best performance in the film whenever he's awake. Skylar Astin was in
"Pitch Perfect" and fared much better there. He delivers every line
with great sincerity, but that doesn't work with this type of
character. Miles Teller was in "Project X," and plays the same type of
role here. He isn't good in either.

"21 and Over" is pretty much the exact type of movie that you expect it
to be. If you think "The Hangover" is funny, you'll probably find this
movie hilarious as well. It has issues with its characters, dialogue
and situations, but if you find it funny you probably won't notice. I
didn't like "21 and Over," but if it sounds like your type of thing,
you'll probably get some enjoyment out of it.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie you hate from the first minute on. The characters are
unlikable and very forgettable, it has a feeling like it's trying to be
important but comes off lame and there is very little comedy in this
comedy.

Another teen party movie, although them being 21 and legal is supposed
to be rebellious? The Asian kid has an important meeting the next day
yet his dumb friends take him out drinking, and even when he is drunk
they just keep going to bars and parties and dragging him around. 

In an age of cell phones, the internet, GPS and every other form of
communication they can't find someones address? The guy is awake
several times yet they don't ask him his address, instead they compete
in party games and drink a gallon of milk.

A seriously dumb movie.

Go watch Superbad again if you want a funny movie like this.
<|_=00=_|>
Watched "21 and Over" last night at an advanced screening so sharing a
review for those wondering about it.

If you should use other films/media to describe "21 and Over", it is
like a combination of "Hang Over", "American Pie", and "Jackass". If
describing in one sentence, "21 and Over" is stupid drunkenness or
drunk galore? It is an enjoyable film and I would recommend it for
those who enjoy dirty slapstick humor and just college craziness. I
wouldn't feel the need to watch this film again and it isn't an Oscar
nominee type of film, but If you like watching drunk people, this film
is for you.

I admit, I like watching this type of films from time to time, but a
big reason I was interested in this film was because I liked the
writers' Jon Lucas and Scott Moore's other pieces, the popular "Hang
Over" film series and "Change Up". I did assume that "21 and Over"
would be structured and directed just like "Hang Over but "21 and Over"
does not have the story-telling abilities that "Hang Over" has nor are
the story, plot, resolution, and characters anywhere as interesting.
One's own experiences and perspectives change with age, and Lucas and
Moore are out of touch with the current 20s generation as the dialogue,
story development, and characters in "21 and Over" are old, clichéd,
and stereotypical.

The movie took a while to pick up the pace. Surprisingly and thankfully
Jeff Chang is not the main focus in this film, nothing against the
actors (these newcomers did a great job), but the supposed main
character burned through his drinking and bar scenes early on in a
series of montages.

Some of the likable aspects of this movie are the timing of the stunts
and how outrageous the stunts are. When it seemed like the film would
end soon or run out of tricks, the characters' rolling ball of chaos
just got bigger and bigger. The stunts pulled now a day for slapstick
humor are getting more outrageous and openly, visually sexual. If
nothing, Lucas and Moore get kudos for fresh stunts. Perhaps they spent
the time they were supposed to use for brainstorming dialogue and story
development, watching "Jackass" instead.

In the end this film is still enjoyable because it's not like this
film's audience watches these kinds of films for the dialogue nor
accurate representation of cultural identities. All that matters is
that the slapstick stunts and moderate dirtiness of the film is enough
to not leave a silent house. For sure, the high school kids during the
advanced screening got a kick out of it, hoping their college life can
be that fun? Crazy at least.

Review by WendyXS@FeiXiangFilms
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is pretty bad, the story is quite bad as well. 3 friends get
wasted, and then they do some crazy stuff, It's a bit overused. Also
those racist jokes are so bad, especially with 2 Serbian thugs, classic
propaganda about Serbians being terrorists mean and rude people. I
rated it 3, It has funny moments, but it's like you read scenario and
you know what will happen, it's too obvious. But then again, I guess if
you are 15 years old you will find this movie very entertaining, If you
are a bit older with some experience with parties drinking, you will
face palm. I understand it's a movie but it's too American, parties
getting wasted, and at the end you make everything right.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about the first 24 hours of a straight A student's 21st
birthday.

"21 & Over" is a toned down college version of "The Hangover". The plot
is very similar to "The Hangover", and it is wearing thin. Though the
parties are ridiculous and the alcohol is plentiful, we all know what
will happen and hence the plot does not have the same entertaining
effect as the first time around. Fortunately, the subplot of testing
the strained friendship and standing up for oneself is a bit
refreshing, so "21 & Over" sets itself as slightly different from its
parent clone. The Asian female student who swears a lot is the most
memorable character, and she deserves a special mention. Her one minute
of screen time is so unexpectedly crazy! "21 & Over" is an average
comedy, if judged on its own merit. But please, enough with the "The
Hangover" clones.
<|_=00=_|>
"21 and Over" could celebrate that miraculous moment when the final
barrier to adulthood falls by the wayside, as the act of legally buying
alcohol instantly goes from forbidden act to routine. However, the
movie just uses the moment as a springboard to a cynical college-age
"Hangover" redo with far fewer developed characters and even less
inventive adventures. This is the directorial debut of Jon Lucas and
Scott Moore, who wrote "The Hangover (2009)." "21 & Over" pretends to
take chances even as it retraces the same sequences we've already seen
in movies like--well--"The Hangover." It's hard to completely hate "21
& Over," but you cannot really laugh at it either. The most you can do
is just pity it for not being as outrageous as it thinks it is.
<|_=00=_|>
The character of Miles is the most annoying person on the planet.
Horribly acted by the actor who plays Jeff Chang. Nothing he says comes
off as believable. 

The dialogue between Sarah Wright and the other male lead is horribly
written.

Not only is this movie not funny; it is a very predictable story line. 

Caution! you will see two of the male leads make-out.

How people rate this movie above 5 is beyond me.

They joke about incest in the beginning of the movie also. 

I would be embarrassed to even be associated with this movie. This is
worst movie i've seen in a while.
<|_=00=_|>
'21 & over' is the latest buddy comedy inspired by 'The Hangover.' It
has a similar story to 'The Hangover' except the drinking rampage is
the story rather than the morning after.

This film was surprisingly good! I think the last film I saw was 'Movie
43' and that made me lose faith in laughter and happiness Anyway, '21
& over' certainly isn't the funniest comedy ever but there are a decent
amount of laughs and cringe moments. Of course, towards the end the
story does go totally over the top. This is a modern classic aspect of
American comedies these days so I guess it is just something we will
have to get used to. Thankfully, it doesn't really send the film into a
downward spiral as it is still redeemable. 

The characters in this film are all pretty funny in their own way and
the characters you are supposed to like are genuinely likable. The
story deals with a lot of important issues in a bizarrely light-hearted
manner which is quite odd. A lot of the supporting characters are
really funny so you're glad to see them each time they pop up
throughout the film. I anticipated a lot of rubbish, cheap racist Asian
jokes to be dotted all over the script but only a few did and they were
from a character that seemed like the kind of person who would say
those kinds of jokes. This was quite relieving, the film did its best
to make jokes and references that people of a similar age would
recognise and find funny.

Overall, this film is nonsense but the people who created it know this
and don't try to pretend it's anything else. This is a good film to
watch with your friends and I imagine, once it is released on DVD, will
be a popular film for drinking games. Beer Pong anyone?
<|_=00=_|>
Ironic that, although this piece of American college dross is titled 21
& Over, it's hard to imagine that it would appeal to anyone over the
age of fifteen.

The plot, such as it is, has already been covered. To flatter it with a
further description would be giving it credit that it doesn't deserve.

In my opinion (and I admit that I am way out of its' targetted age
range) it is humourless, devoid of any charm and it's hard to imagine
that it earned enough to pay for its making.

This genre of movie, if it still has a future, can be done so much
better. The comparisons with The Hangover are obvious and an indication
of how tight direction, a genuinely funny script and talented
performers can make all the difference. This offering has none of
those.

There are capable actors in the cast and they deserve better but may
struggle to maintain any credibility for a while with this on their CV.
