
I went in to this movie not expecting much. having read some reviews
online prior i had my hopes set a little higher as many people said the
intensity of the movie was high. the reviews did not do that justice.
this might be one of the most relentless in your face movies i have
ever seen. once things start to go wrong and believe me it does not
take long at all, it rarely ever gives you a chance to breathe. 

This is Owen Wilson in top form. I have seen him take on a serious role
before in behind enemy lines so i knew he had it in him but he really
takes it to a whole new level here. the children are adorable and
really strong actresses for their age. the family dynamic is authentic
and you genuinely care about what happens to them. 

the concept behind this movie is not too far fetched and felt very
plausible. John Erick Dowdle does a great job putting his audience
right in the middle of the chaos. Many instances throughout the movie i
found myself thinking about how i would react in these situations. Some
excellent camera-work is used here too, especially on the roof scene. 

Of course this movie is not perfect. there were a couple of Hollywood
moments where someone saves the day at the last possible second and the
ending felt kind of abrupt but it was still pretty emotional and shows
what this family has gone through. overall i give this movie a 9.5/10 

Do not sleep on this movie. you will be in for one wild ride.
<|_=00=_|>
No Escape has me on the edge of my seat for several moments. The
intensity of the movie is real. Well done producer, but you still miss
the shot by that much. 

The story is about Jack Dwyer and his families traveling to a South
East Asian movie to settle down so he can work for a water company
there. However, they soon find out that a coup has broken out and local
rebels are trying to kill all foreigners they see because those
foreigners are making them slave by control the water sources. Jack has
to walk through hell, fight off enemies to escape to Vietnam. 

Cool, really good plot. However, it can be much better. I want to know
better about the villain, not just mindless criminals. I want a bit of
side story and explanation. Although Mr.Hammond did explain a bit, I
feel that detail is just too shallow and it is not developed good
enough. I feel that bit is not necessary, a normal coup for power is
fine for me. Don't mark everything America with star, stripes and
eagle.

The movie also has several errors. Such as when Annie told her daughter
to hide in the bathroom and lock, she ran the opposite direction in the
bedroom, but later the wife was standing in front of the bathroom next
to the main door (hotel, 1 bathroom only).

Also when the sniper try to kill them, Hammond and Kenny did a terrible
job on keeping an eyes out. Moreover, if I am a rebel and I know they
are staying up there, I will send several men to get them right there,
not just staying in the tower and shoot. That is a terrible strategy. 

Hammond was really cool character, but he does not have enough screen
time, which is a total let down. 

The ending scene was not well played, I feel it rushes too much and I
feel they take only 5 minutes to get to Vietnam border. And the truck
was chasing, if they planned to kill, why don't they just shoot when
the boat still on the other side? What hold them back? I would prefer
the ending scene on a road than the river. As I want to see a bit more
standoff between Vietnamese force and rebels. 

LIKE: Good plot Decent Acting Good "South East Asian" Atmosphere
Hammond Intensity and violence Vietnam is safe haven

DISLIKE: Plot was not well developed in side story Movie errors and
nonsense Screen time for Hammond was not enough Ending scene

OTHER STUFF FOR DISCUSSION: OK, the country in the movie, is not real.
So calm down guys. It was filmed in Thailand, people speaking Laotian
and minority languages and all the signs are in "up side down"
Cambodian Khmer. 

It is a movie okay? There is no country's city has direct fly from US
and couple of miles away from Vietnam, of course.

I personally like this movie, it reflects partly the truth of several
South East Asian countries now. Cambodia is going through big political
war between the current gov and the politicians who want to wage a war
with Vietnam. Thing was really tense at Vietnam's border couple of
months ago. 

I saw someone rated this movie bad and said it is a racist movie
because white people escapes. Calm the f*ck down, it is an action
movie, not a lovely soft humane story. Don't bring the refugee crisis
in here, movie is movie, real life is real life. 

Rate it 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
"No Escape" is set in an anonymous South East Asia country bordering
Vietnam facing a violent civil war, with the uprising triggered by
perceived foreign imperialist intervention. The film was shot in
Thailand but looks and feels like Cambodia. Having had the fortune to
spend time in Cambodia and be immersed in its troubling history, this
feels well positioned: the economic premise at the heart of the film 
that governments invest in loss-leading foreign-aid, in this case water
treatment, to 'buy' future strings of the leadership - is controversial
but has the ring of truth about it. Countries like Cambodia have been
used as political footballs by the Super Powers for many years, and are
pressure-cookers of injustice and discontent. 

Owen Wilson and Lake Bell play Jack and Annie Dwyer, parents relocating
 reluctantly - to the country as ex-pats to follow Jack's work as a
water treatment engineer for a US corporate. Pretty brave, as they have
their two young children Lucy and Beeze in tow. With immaculate timing
they fly in on the eve of the uprising and their life turns into a
terrifying game of hide and seek as the armed rebels pursue then with
one intent: murder with a side-order of rape. 

They are aided and abetted by a long-term ex-pat Hammond (Pierce
Brosnan) who spends most of his free-time in bars and brothels but is a
handy person to know. The film's title sums up the action perfectly: in
a world without law, order or reason, and as scuppered as four chickens
in a fox farm, how will the family survive? Or indeed will they all
survive?

The bottom line is that this film is tense. Very tense. On the
'tenseness scale', we go right through 'clenching the armrest' right up
to 'hands in the hair' tense at times, and there is little relief from
after the action really kicks off. As a result, this is quite an
exhausting watch.

The casting is also fascinating. Owen Wilson, better known for fluffier
stuff like "Wedding Crashers", didn't feel to me like the natural
choice for this lead, but he is really excellent. And Lake Bell, best
known for the kooky and underrated 'voiceover' film "In a World", also
excels as the traumatized wife and mother. Together with some highly
credible performances by the kids (Sterling Jerins and Claire Geare)
the ensemble really makes you care for the family unit, which adds
massively to the tension. 

Also in his best role for years Pierce Brosnan has great fun as the
animated larger-than-life Hammond, although those of a sensitive
musical disposition should be aware that he does sing again in karaoke
mode: and if this were possible, it's even more toe-curlingly awful
than "SOS" (albeit intentionally so). The one criticism would be
Brosnan's weird accent which at first I took to be South African, but
it later emerges that he is supposed to be British. If so, it's no UK
regional accent that I recognize.

We are into September now  a difficult period for cinema, where the
summer blockbusters give way to those films the studios deem not quite
good enough for the 'Oscar period'. But, whilst having the feeling of a
tight and relatively low-budget flick, here is an action film worthy of
your attention. It is a film that tells a simple story very well,
choosing to cut away from the more gruesome acts (it is a '15'
certificate in the UK) to focus on the players' reactions and leaving
more to the imagination. For this, the director  John Erick Dowdle
(who also wrote the piece)  is to be congratulated. I was rather
sniffy about his last film ("As Above, So Below")  "No Escape" is a
vast improvement.

In summary, taut, tense and worthy of your movie dollar. Note though
that for those adversely affected by films about children in peril
and/or about serious sexual assault, this might be one for you to miss.

(If you enjoyed this review, please register at bob-the-movie-man.com
for future posts. Thanks)
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of an expatriate family arriving in an Asian
country the night a bloody coup occurs. They have to do everything they
can to stay alive and get across the border.

Nothing prepares me for the thrilling adventure that "No Escape"
provides. The film starts with a shocking assassination, then the story
provides no place for me to catch my breath until almost an hour later,
when the characters are on the second roof. Owen Wilson is a very
convincing family man. This film proves that he can do more than
comedic roles. He leads his shocked family from one place to another,
encountering countless near death experiences. "No Escape" keeps me on
edge all the time, and in fact I had to keep my eyes closed for quite a
few scary scenes! There is also a lot of emotional element. The
characters are very human, like ordinary citizens who have no
superpowers. They do everything they can to protect their family's
lives. I think that is why the story is so engaging. I really enjoyed
watching "No Escape".
<|_=00=_|>
I went to this movie because I was curious -- Owen Wilson NOT in a
comedy?? I was pleasantly surprised. Owen Wilson nailed it -- a loving
father trying *desperately* to save his family. Yes, this situation has
been done a zillion times before (for example, THREE "Taken" movies) --
but I've never seen it done with this much intensity. The movie's focus
was not on the "action." Rather, the focus was on the interplay between
the parents/kids, how they dealt with each other and the various
situations, providing a deeply human touch against a horrifically
inhuman background (a massacre). And it was this extreme contrast, of
the human vs the inhuman, that kept me on the edge of my seat
throughout the movie.

Pierce Brosnan was also amazing. No plastic Kennie doll here -- Pierce
Brosnan played an imperfect man trying to do the right thing. I've
never seen Pierce Brosnan play such a wide range within a single role
-- from off-key karaoke to ____. (I won't say it as it would be a
spoiler). 

I also enjoyed Pierce Brosnan's sidekick, "Kenny Rogers." 

And I must say, it was refreshing to see an action movie where the only
"car chase scene" involved a moped going five miles per hour.
<|_=00=_|>
As "No Escape" (2015 release; 103 min.) open, we see a high level
meeting taking place (drinks are tested for poison before consumption).
It's the Prime Minister (of an unnamed country), and before we know it,
the Prime Minister is murdered. The movie then switches to "17 Hours
Earlier", as we get to know the Dwyer family as they are en route to
Southeast Asia: Jack (played by Owen Wilson), Annie (played by Lake
Bell), and their two young daughters Lucy and Beeze. During the flight
they also meet Hammond (played by Pierce Brosnan), who has visited the
country 15 times and knows the place inside out. Upon arrival at their
hotel, Annie comments "Welcome to the fourth world!", as there is no
functioning TV, phone or internet. The next morning Jack goes for a
walk to by a US newspaper, and inadvertently gets mixed up in a
stand-off between demonstrators and police in riot gear. At this point,
we are not yet 15 min. into the movie but to tell you more would spoil
your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it
all plays out.

Couple of comments: first, this movie has gotten pretty negative
reviews from the experts and movie critics. Well, let me tell you, they
are way off the mark on this one. If you have seen the movie's trailer,
you already know that this is in essence one long escape movie 9very
similar in the way that the new Mad Max movie was in essence one long
car chase). Once Jack gets mixed up in the stand-off, he and then his
family in essence run and hide, and run some more, in a city where
there is no sanctuary. It makes for an incredibly tense movie. It must
also be mentioned that the movie is at times outright brutal, making
for some difficult watching. This is definitely not a movie for the
faint of heart. But there are also a number of heart-stopping scenes
that play out brilliantly. The hotel rooftop scene, which is so
reminiscent of the last days of Saigon 1975, will blow you away. Let me
also point out a minus: much of the movie is shot with hand-held
cameras and there are tons of close-ups (enforcing the feeling of
anxiety), which frankly makes for some exhausting watching. Also, I'm
still not 'buying' into Owen Wilson as an action movie guy. On the
other hand, Lake Bell, who shone a few years ago in her own movie "In A
World...", shines again in this one. Kudos also for Brosnan, who still
has the charisma of his James Bond days. When you realize that the
production budget of this movie was just $5 million, a pittance in
today's Hollywood terms, this movie more than delivers the goods.

"No Escape" opened nationally this past weekend and due to the negative
reviews I was hedging whether to go see this, even though I had liked
the trailer. Well I gave in to my original curiosity. So glad I did.
The early evening screening where I saw this at here in Cincinnati was
attended okay but not great (it was a week night, though). If you are
in the mood for an ultra-tense action drama and you are not faint of
heart, you should check this out, be it in the theater, on Amazon
Instant Video or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray. "No Escape" is HIGHLY
RECOMMENDED!
<|_=00=_|>
Going to watch a movie with Owen Wilson starring, you usually expect
some kind of comedy or romance. Not this time. I was really worried
that he would not be up to the task with this one, but this was not
true, not true at all!

The movie was fascinating, completely plausible, filled with amazing
scenes that keep you at the edge of your seat. The things that this
family goes through were unimaginable but very well executed during
filming. 

Owen was that good that you could actually empathize with his suffering
and anxiety and put yourself in his position struggling for his family.
Pierce Brosnan was AMAZING! Just the right amount, just as much as
needed, to complement a really thrilling movie!

Recommended for sure! Can't wait to see more stuff like that from Owen
Wilson!
<|_=00=_|>
I thought Owen Wilson was excellent in this movie. It was very
suspenseful and really did keep you on the edge of your seat the whole
time. Pretty graphic I must say, which is the only reason I did not
give it a 9 or 10, but well written with an excellent plot. Going in I
was a little apprehensive as to how good Owen Wilson was going to be in
an "action" movie but he did not disappoint. A tad unbelievable given
his build and stature as to what he was able to do from a physical
standpoint in the movie but still kept me on the edge of my seat the
whole time. All in all I would definitely recommend this movie to
anyone who likes action and suspense.
<|_=00=_|>
There were scenes in this movie when I literally felt as if my heart
was going to pound its way out of my chest. Among other scenes I'm
thinking of the extremely quease-inducing one where the Dwyers have to
leap from one building roof to another to escape those trying to kill
them - and as part of it they actually have to throw their young
children across the open space from one roof to another. I could barely
watch that scene. And has there been a more horrific scene filmed than
the one in which young Lucy Dwyer (who can't be more than 10) has a gun
put to her head and another in her hands and is told she'll be killed
unless she kills her father. There are several times in this movie
where the title seems to be the only possible conclusion. Surely
there's no escape for this family.

"No Escape" is set in a fictional country in southeast Asia. All we
know from the plot is that it borders Vietnam. Jack Dwyer (Owen Wilson)
has taken a job with an American company in that country, only to find
that virtually the moment he arrives, a violent anti- American
revolution breaks out and he and his family are being sought out along
with every other American, and every other westerner. It's sometimes a
disorienting movie, set in a large city. Having visited the Chinese
cities of Beijing and Changsha, the portrayal of the city seemed
authentic. China is a peaceful country, but everything was chaotic
enough that I didn't venture out too far on my own for fear that I'd
end up hopelessly lost. Jack and his family are running for their
lives, disoriented and lost, with danger potentially lurking around
every corner. The atmosphere was great. It's truly one of the most
intense movies I've ever seen.

The performances from the leads were all superb. I haven't seen Wilson
in too many serious roles, but he seemed perfectly cast as Jack, and I
was very impressed with Lake Bell, who played Jack's wife Annie, with
whom I was previously unfamiliar. The children were fantastic. Played
by Sterling Jerins (who was Lucy in the above- mentioned scene) and the
even younger Claire Geare, they didn't miss a beat. There was no
"irritating child actor" thing going on here. Jerins and Geare hit the
mark perfectly. Pierce Brosnan rounded out the main cast as some sort
of British agent who helps the Dwyers in their desperate attempt to
escape.

This is one of the best suspense/thrillers I've seen in a very long
time. To the extent that it has weaknesses, perhaps it started out a
little bit slow - but only for a few minutes, and once the action
starts it doesn't stop. It also might have been helpful if the
revolution had been a little more clearly explained. All we know is
that there's resentment against this American company Jack has arrived
to work for. But those are minor weaknesses. I haven't really come
across too many movies that have literally kept me glued to the edge of
my seat. This one did. (9/10)
<|_=00=_|>
John Erick Dowdle's "No Escape" is a taut thriller, nicely edited and
strongly paced, resulting in a film that knows exactly how to get your
adrenaline up and your movie-going senses tingled. Dowdle has been a
strong force in the horror genre ever since his seldom-seen, largely
unreleased debut "The Poughkeepsie Tapes" came onto the scene in 2007.
Since then, Dowdle has proved his ability to direct claustrophobic
thrillers such as "As Above, So Below" and "Devil," solidifying his
filmography as dynamic and rounded, especially for a horror/thriller
director.

"No Escape" is his most mainstream project to date, with a bigger scale
than his previous films and bigger stars as well. Set in Southeast
Asia, we focus on Jack (Owen Wilson), his wife Annie (Lake Bell), and
their children Lucy and Breeze (Sterling Jerins and Claire Geare), who
are moving to Asia for Jack's new job. Not long after being in the
land, Jack's morning walk to get a newspaper results in him racing back
to his hotel, following an all-out war between law enforcement and
natives in the cluttered streets. Riots, looting, and inexplicable
violence break out in the streets and Jack and his family must find a
way to Vietnam where they can declare asylum. They seek out the help of
Hammond (Pierce Brosnan, who provides darkly comic relief in many
scenes), a skilled survivalist who is seen traveling on the plane with
them to Asia, who assists in finding them temporary places to stay
amidst all the madness.

Assertions have flown over the alleged "racism" of "No Escape"'s story,
due to the negative portrayal of Asian natives and the constant danger
and sanctity of this white family being challenged, in addition to
being the prime concern, throughout the course of this picture. I bring
this up not to challenge the position, for it is somewhat valid, but
how come films like "Taken," which is operating on the same playing
field as this film, isn't as slammed as this film is? Was that picture
just too entertaining for the subtext to be noticed, or were we too
distracted by Liam Neeson in that film to really care? 

"No Escape," however, can claim more than "Taken" can as film because
"No Escape"'s strengths come in the regard of its editing and
camera-work, two things I was worried about walking into this film.
Chaotic action films like these are ripe for sloppy aesthetics, which
can, in turn, ruin any ability to see the action, let alone really care
about what is happening to the characters. Dowdle and editor Elliot
Greenberg are smart about how they shoot and edit this film, never
settling for anything other than shots and editing tactics that allow
for immersion and clear placement for the audience. In addition,
Greenberg's editing provides some elements of structural pacing, which
work to "No Escape"'s favor, especially during the more chaotic scenes.

The only element that subtracts from what "No Escape" does so uniformly
well with its aesthetics is the convenience of the plot. Throughout the
film, characters are put in compromising positions, including one scene
at the end that comes so close to making this film great and almost
entirely amoral, but finds ways through miraculous scenarios to get
them out of harm's way in the nick of time. This ostensibly comes from
writers John Erick and Drew Dowdle's dueling desire to up the film's
stakes but simultaneously back down and not make things too drastic.
For as heartless as some scenes of the film can be, it would've only
been fitting to see some of the more serious, morally corrupt scenarios
to follow through.

"No Escape" still works as a basic, fulfilling film; a pulsating action
film with various elements of a thriller directed by someone with an
evident list of ideas and edited by someone who understands the value
of pacing and crystal-clear editing.
