
I was in two minds as to whether I'd even bother with another Pacino
film. He's been involved in a quite a few mediocre movies recently and
I'd made a mental note to try and avoid them. However, I found plot
summary of this movie quite intriguing and thought I'd give it a go.
Incredibly this is one of his best films and I really enjoyed it from
the start to the credits. Danny Collins has lived a hedonistic,
excessive lifestyle for decades, but a surprising event causes him to
look at his life and he makes substantial efforts to change and even to
mend relationships. His quest may not be easy or faultless but it is
still very satisfying. I cannot recommend this highly enough.
<|_=00=_|>
"Danny Collins" is the kind of film ripe for emotional manipulation and
mawkishness, so much so that its potential to squander its wealth of
talent makes one clench in their seat, hoping for a different result
than the one they foresee. While there is definitely sentimentality to
be found in the film, such scenes are handled with pleasant restraint
from writer/director Dan Fogelman (writer of "Tangled" and both "Cars"
films). "Danny Collins" is likely one of the few commendable adult
dramas we will get this year, and it's nice to see that it's a
particularly winning blend of restriction and talent.

The film concerns the title character (played by Al Pacino in his best,
most subtle role in years), an aging, alcoholic, cocaine-addicted
singer, disillusioned with his current state of faking it through sold
out performances, playing the same old tired songs (his most famous
song echoes the tune of "Sweet Caroline") he has since he began his
career in the 1970's. One day, he decides to drop everything,
cancelling the remainder of his tour in order to venture out to stay
indefinitely at a Hilton hotel and work on his songwriting, something
he hasn't done in several decades, much to the dismay of his long
suffering manager Frank Grubman (Christopher Plummer). While staying at
the Hilton, Danny tries to make right with his son Tom (Bobby
Cannavale), who has gone on to marry a beautiful woman (Jennifer
Garner) and lead a solid life without the help of his father, whom
views him as a deadbeat, as well as win the heart of the stubborn hotel
manager Mary Sinclair (Annette Bening), who shoots down every dinner
request he makes.

All of this angst and disillusionment arises when Danny receives a
long-lost letter from John Lennon, following an interview at a magazine
where Danny references Lennon as a major influence. In the letter,
Lennon tells him to be true to himself and states that the money and
fame don't corrupt a person, but personal choices and vices will always
be the downfall of a man. With this, Danny becomes rather tumultuous
and realizes he's been stuck in a dead-end, creative funk for years,
unable to produce a winning record or anything of noteworthiness for
years. He uses this opportunity to take a vacation and hopefully find
creative inspiration and connectivity amongst those he should've been
in contact with for many years.

Pacino is always the centerpiece of "Danny Collins," in nearly every
shot of the film and always bearing some kind of discernible energy,
whether it be boisterous or subtle. This is Pacino's most accomplished
role in years, as he finds ways to create his own character and infuse
him with just the right amount of life for the occasion. He is never
overcome with theatrics, and plays everything in a genuine, low-key
manner, something we haven't seen from Pacino in quite some time. His
portrait of an aging alcoholic musician who realizes he hasn't done
anything creative or for himself in years (perhaps there's some loose,
real-life connection there, but that's all speculation, of course)
isn't played in a manner where overacting prevails emotion and that's
the key to a great deal of "Danny Collins"' success.

The supporting characters in "Danny Collins" all transcend the lines of
typical supporting characters, as they branch out to become their own
character and are brought to life thanks to a collection of great
talent. Among the best of the lot is Christopher Plummer, who serves as
Danny's best friend in the film as well as his financial and managerial
guide. Plummer is just as wry here as he's ever been, never missing a
comedic or dramatic beat, and turns up just in time to save the film
from becoming too sappy or too dramatic. Bobby Cannavale also does
arguably some of his finest work as Danny's understandably livid son,
who has been left in the dark and in the working class region of the
world while his father adores all the fame of show business, so he
thinks, and leaves all other responsibilities unattended. Cannavale,
like Pacino, acts within his own restraints of showing anger but not
being overly dramatic about the entire affair, never breaking out in a
fight with his father nor letting loose a monologue of vulgarities.
Almost every conversation held between them conducts itself with a
pleasant sense of situational realism.

"Danny Collins" is a surprising little film, and given how its small
theatrical release is being expanded little by little, I have a feeling
it will resonate with the baby boomer crowd as time goes on, giving
them a little opportunity for cinematic enrichment as they're often
forgotten. If that's the case, this is fine film to see, especially if
you're only planning on seeing one, maybe two, films this year.
<|_=00=_|>
Al Pacino was great in the movie. 

I would have never cast him has Danny Collins. Danny Collins is suppose
to be a big folk singer in the 1970's. They used old photos of Al from
the 1970's as album covers, i think one still from the God father,
which made Danny Collins music seem instance and Dark (my kind of
folk), but the music actually done was very pop and sounded weird
actually being sung by Pacino, who looks more like a lounge singer. 

But the movie is not really about the music. Danny Collins is more
about Collins attempting to charm his way into his son's life, a man
who he has never met and has a family of his own. 

Pacino may have been slightly miss cast, but the man was charming and
funny and was lighting up the screen with his charisma. similar to his
role in Sent of A Woman.

Definitely go see if you are a Pacino fan.
<|_=00=_|>
Inspired by the true story of folk singer Steve Tilston, 'Danny
Collins' is A Beautiful Film, that offers great emotional depth! And Al
Pacino shines in the title role, proving once again that he's among the
greatest we've ever had!

'Danny Collins' Synopsis: An aging rock star decides to change his life
when he discovers a 40-year-old letter written to him by John Lennon.

'Danny Collins' is at heart, a sensitive father & son story, that's
emotionally charged. I was moved & overwhelmed by Danny Collins's
journey, not only with his son, but also with his friends, his
profession & himself. Its a fascinating character, that's been bought
to life, with dexterity. 

Dan Fogelman's Screenplay is top-class. Its emotional & also humorous.
Fogelman's Direction, on the other-hand, is simple, yet effective.
Cinematography is good. Editing is consistently crisp. Costume Design
is fine. Music by Ryan Adams & Theodore Shapiro is wonderful.

Performance-Wise: Pacino is extraordinary as Danny Collins. He sinks
his teeth into the part & brings it out with flying colors. Annette
Bening is sweet. Bobby Cannavale is in fine form, as well. Jennifer
Garner is subdued, while The Great Christopher Plummer is impeccable in
his brief bit.

On the whole, 'Danny Collins' is a winner all the way! Among the best
films from 2015 yet!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is about aging and about finding a reason to live. An aging
rock star, Danny Collins, who is still popular, receives a letter from
a famous rock star, forty years after the letter was written. The
letter contains advice that if followed, may have changed Danny's life
for the better. Basically, the letter's message was that you don't have
to let material things erode your creativity. The problem for Danny is
that after forty years of performing, he now finds himself wallowing in
that creative and spiritual rut that the letter warned him about. He
hasn't written a new song in thirty years and the material he does
perform over and over again is stale to the point of being toxic. None
of his props - his huge house, expensive car, young fianc√©, the
alcohol, the drugs - help inspire him. He feels an emptiness that is
nagging him. After reading the letter, Danny decides to retire. He does
this in order to try to revive his creativity and prove to himself that
he can still produce. The rest of the movie reveals more about Danny's
character, showing that under all the the boozing and drugging there
exists a decent person. To find out whether Danny finds happiness and
fulfillment, watch the movie. Al Pacino gives a strong, yet
appropriately nuanced performance as an aging man who is searching for
meaning in his life. After decades of using music as much as an escape
as well as a source of income, he finally begins to confront the truth
about himself. What he discovers makes this movie worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Danny Collins comes from the director who brought you Crazy, Stupid,
Love and this movie is another charmer in the same vein. As a truly
delightful dramedy that thinks it's much edgier than it is, Danny
Collins boasts a fabulous cast with great chemistry which becomes a low
stakes tale of living your life the best way you can at any age.

Danny Collins (Al Pacino) is a very famous singer who, now in his elder
years, has been reduced to singing the same repetitive hits on a tour
where the average attendees are 50-60 year old women. When his manager
Frank (Christopher Plummer) presents him with a birthday gift of a lost
letter written to him from John Lennon almost forty years ago, Danny
decides to change his life to the way he thinks it should have been had
he gotten that letter originally. This sends him from LA to New Jersey
to connect with the grown son he has never met.

Pacino is delightful and fun as the eccentric Collins. Danny is a
normal man who let fame and money warp him into the typical aging rock
star. In a story like this, you would expect someone like Danny to hit
rock bottom, lose everything and then have to build himself back up to
a better person and artist. This does not happen as Danny never in fact
changes at all- he is just as bombastic, oblivious and creatively
shallow as ever by the end of the film. But in a monologue given by the
almighty Frank Grubman (Plummer) to Danny's estranged son, Danny is
full of flaws but he has the best of hearts. Pacino gives a wonderful
performance in a role that you can only describe as adorable and
wanting him to be your awesome famous uncle.

Annette Bening plays Mary, the flustered hotel manager in New Jersey
where Danny takes up temporary residence. Pacino and her have an easy
and fun chemistry that lights up the screen when they are together.
Mary starts out as someone Danny pursues and flirts with to her
apprehensive delight, but she soon becomes his moral compass and you
realize along with him that he may not be ready, or ever be ready to
deserve her. Bobby Cannavale (Win Win) and Jennifer Garner (Dallas
Buyers Club) give understated and beautiful performances as Danny's son
and his pregnant wife. Both of these actors know how to play the
straight to Pacino's Collins while also deep-rooting a sense of
humanity in the film. The couple also has an adorable seven year old
daughter who has the most sober looking case of ADHD ever seen.

Danny Collins wants you to think it is an edgy movie, but it's not. It
plays like a family movie and the moral is certainly aimed to that
dynamic. If not for the extreme overuse of the f-bomb and the
gratuitous female full frontal in the beginning.

- See more at: http://www.mediumraretv.org/review/danny-
collins/#sthash.SZcf5VNf.dpuf
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those films when the title tells you nothing so, unless
you see a trailer or have a recommendation, you could miss out on a
real pleasure. It must have been tempting to use a title like "How A
Lost Letter From John Lennon Enabled Danny Collins to Find Himself" but
perhaps that would have said too much. Certainly the storyline is very
loosely inspired by the true incident of English folk singer Steve
Tilston's discovery that Lennon had written to him in 1971.

On the other hand, maybe knowing that the lead role is taken by Al
Pacino would be enough for some people to view the movie, since this is
an actor who consistently gives brilliant performances. Except that the
character of Danny is much tenderer than most of Pacino's roles (think
"The Godfather" movies all the way to "Righteous Kill") and the
portrayal is much less histrionic than many of his earlier roles (think
"Scarface" or "The Devil's Advocate"). Blow me, Pacino even sings in
this film.

One of the many delights of "Danny Collins" though is that Pacino (now
in his mid 70s) is not the only star. There are excellent performances
from Christopher Plummer (even older in his mid 80s) as his agent,
Bobby Cannavale as his son, Jennifer Garner as his daughter-in-law, and
Annette Bening as a hotel manager. Writer and director Dan Fogelman has
given good lines and meaningful roles to his ensemble cast and it pays
off a treat. And we get to hear some Lennon classics.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie not expecting much, although i love the cast
outright. But i was entertained throughout because this movie has heart
along with its humor. Writer-director Dan Fogelman's nicely-scripted
plot unfolds at a decent pace, albeit a little predictably. Al Pacino,
as usual, delivers a full-on performance which includes some decent
singing and dancing. He is ably supported by Annette Bening as a
reluctant love interest and Christopher Plummer as his faithful
manager. The icing on this cake would be the soundtrack featuring songs
by John Lennon, with the numbers beautifully worked in. Too bad that
Jealous Guy couldn't be included.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I have to start by saying it felt really weird to see a
super saying the movie was "sort of based on a true story". Sorry, but
it is either based on true events or it's not. I guess it's only a
trick to catch people's attention a little more¬Ö

The movie was OK, but it won't leave a long lasting impression. As for
Al Pacino, the guy is an excellent actor, but for him to play a
musician on the brink of retirement and to force him to show his
singing skills was probably a bit of a mistake. He is such an awful
singer that you wonder if the guy is singing or having a heart attack.
Either way, it makes you question why they chose him and not someone
else for the role¬Ö I suppose Al Pacino is still Al Pacino. 

Also, I feel that you never really get the point of the Lennon letter,
which is supposed to be central to this movie (Probably the reason why
they made a movie only "mildly based" on true events). They had to add
a lot of substance to this letter story to turn it into a movie. You
could say it is the eye opener that makes Pacino reach out for his son
and try to change his empty life around before it's too late. But that
in itself makes the letter seem unimportant. Basically, you sense that
the same story could have been told without the letter. 

All in all, a decent movie but I really wonder how long it will stuck
to your mind, I give it half a day.
<|_=00=_|>
Al Pacino puts on yet another good performance as an aging rock star
who finds out that he received a letter from John Lennon and decides to
make some changes in his life by getting to know his son's family. The
soundtrack consisting of Lennon songs is really what helps the movie.
It's not the most profound story, but who doesn't love hearing a Lennon
song (whether with the Beatles or on his own)? Aside from Pacino,
Annette Bening puts on the other really good performance. Her hotel
clerk comes across as someone who needs as much of a change in her life
as Danny needs in his. They both need a second chance, and Danny's
quest for redemption just might be the opportunity.

That this is based on a true story makes it all the more interesting. A
letter from John Lennon would be worth more than I can imagine. I hope
that Steve Tilston appreciates what's in his possession, and I hope
that he appreciates Al Pacino's performance.
