
"Tonight as I sleep, my mind will erase everything I know today"; The
simple yet satisfying plot-line of this movie as spelled out by our
lead protagonist in the opening scene is enough to draw anyone into
this wonderful thrill ride of a film. Such a story-line sees the
aforementioned central character (played by Nicole Kidman) slowly put
back together the extremely complex puzzle that is her memory of the
last 14 years, lost after an 'accident' involving a mystery
perpetrator.

The plot, although clearly ludicrous when heard, somehow works
remarkably well when experienced on screen. This is primarily down to
the breakneck pace of the movie, never allowing audience members to get
bored or have enough time to ponder the numerous plot holes noticed
after the final credits. Not that this matters of course, as BIGTS is a
picture to be enjoyed in the moment and at surface level.

Another of the film's major assets is the brilliant performances from
the central three characters. Kidman is back on form, exasperating any
memory of a certain picture that occurred sometime in the previous 14
years; Firth is excellent also as Ben, with Strong matching him in
equal measures on levels of sinister and downright frightening
unpredictability. Not only is such fantastic acting a joy to watch, it
is another factor in helping the plot-line to be accepted without
question by audiences who might think twice if only they weren't having
so much fun.

As entertaining as the picture is, this isn't groundbreaking original
stuff here, nor is it something that is terribly deep in content.
However if you want to spend 90 odd minutes utilizing only the first
third of your seat, then you're in for a treat.
<|_=00=_|>
The premise of Before I Go to Sleep is quite a good one. A woman wakes
up each day with no memory beyond her early twenties; soon she begins
to realise that some dark secrets are being hidden from her. It's sort
of in similar territory to Christopher Nolan's early neo-noir Memento
(2000), which was also a mystery/thriller about a character with a
short-term memory loss condition. Like that one, here one of the
interesting angles is that the central character has no idea if their
friends really are friends or actually enemies. It's true that several
aspects of the storyline require you to stretch your belief somewhat;
however, many thrillers are similar in this respect, so this wasn't
such a deal-breaker for me. The problem I essentially had is that while
the idea may be pretty intriguing, ultimately the pay-off is somewhat
mediocre and conventional. Piece by piece the puzzle is slowly
unravelled but it doesn't end up presenting us with a picture that is
very inspired or interesting and you sort of ask yourself 'is that it?'
<|_=00=_|>
I'd actually read the book before seeing this film so it was a question
to ask ourselves: can we be bothered? In the event, it was worth it and
I found that I was submerged in the film during the showing.

It's the sort of film that doesn't get made very much now in these days
of big budgets, explosions, and cartoonish characterisations. But I'm
glad it appears on the big rather than the small screen of TV because
they brought in really good actors in the three leads. Particularly in
the case of Nicole Kidman, she downplays her looks to come across as an
ordinary woman approaching middle age, a brave choice for an actress.

The big surprise to me was Colin Firth who is way outside his normal
range here and completely credible in the role. Mark Strong also is
good in portraying a psychiatrist with empathy.

The film is very sombre but this is appropriate for the subject matter
and really the director and cinematographer deserve a lot of credit for
catching the uneasy tone of the book.

The reason I don't give it a rating higher than 7 is the unnecessary
slasher scenes which could I think could have been done without so much
blood and violence. Modern filmmakers should pay more attention to the
work of someone like Hitchcock who suggested the gore rather than
shoved your face in it. Still a mature film well worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
"Before I Go To Sleep" is an effective psychological thriller.

Nicole Kidman plays Christine Lucas, someone who if she saw "50 First
Dates" wouldn't remember it the morning afterwards! She wakes as a
forty-something 'housewife' in her suburban home every morning with Ben
(Colin Firth) in bed next to her. However, she can remember little to
nothing of the last twenty years.

She is being covertly helped on a pro-bono basis (with a trace of
pro-boner thrown in) by UCL neuro-scientist Dr Nash (Mark Strong). Nash
reveals that she ended up in this state after being severely beaten up
and left for dead near a Heathrow hotel. He persuades her to maintain a
video diary of the days' events and recollections, but he has to remind
her where she's hidden the camera via phone every morning.

But Christine has a traumatic and terrifying past, remembered (and then
immediately forgotten) in dreams, but which only very slowly starts to
piece itself together during the waking hours. One character emerging
from the mental mist is a long-time college friend Claire (James
McAvoy's wife Anne-Marie Duff) who disappeared from her life under
mysterious circumstances but is now 'found' again.

Will Christine piece together the jigsaw? What was she doing in the
Heathrow hotel? Who beat her up and why? Where does Claire fit in? Can
Mark Strong play anything other than a 'baddie'? So many questions, so
little memory.

Produced by Ridley Scott and with Rowan Joffe ("28 Weeks Later")
writing the screenplay and directing, the film is pleasingly set in and
around a non-touristy London with some fine scenic shots - you can't
really beat the view from the Royal Greenwich Observatory, and this
nicely features in one scene. Nicole Kidman has a lot of acting to do
in this role and she does it very well. Firth and Strong - two of my
favourite actors - are both excellent and keep you guessing throughout.
But of all of the acting roles I found Anne-Marie Duff particularly
effective in the short-and-sweet role of Claire: a very powerful and
touching performance.

It is tempting to describe any psycho-thriller as 'Hitchcockian', but
there are moments where this film can certainly be tagged in this way.
This is helped by a Bernard Herrmann-like score by Ed Shearmur, moody
photography by Ben Davis and crisp editing by Melanie Oliver.

I enjoyed this film, but even with all of these positives it still felt
more like a B-movie than an A-movie for reasons I can't quite sum up.
In addition there were a few niggling plot points and, in my opinion, a
slightly weak epilogue ending. Also note that, in a world where far too
many women still face physical violence, there are flashback scenes in
this film that some may find distressing, earning it its '15' UK
certificate.

(Please see my other film reviews at bob-the-movie-man.com and sign up
to "Follow the Fad". Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
A badly scripted and directed mishmash in which Kidman, Firth and
Strong act brilliantly but can't overcome the dreadful limitations of
what's put before us. Suspension of disbelief just doesn't happen for
this viewer. Can a chemistry teacher afford a house this plush (in
London yet)? Who does the shopping, cooking, cleaning? How come over
four years there's zero interaction with neighbours or any of the
people one encounters daily in real life? In every scene I found myself
thinking "hang on, but...". You just can't get away with this kind of
situation as if the rest of the world doesn't exist. Striking example
of the problem: the scene when Kidman goes to Firth's school. He's
clearly truly a chemistry teacher there. Wouldn't the other staff (if
not the kids, too) know the situation, with so many years gone by since
the incident that left Kidman amnesic? Sorry: when things just don't
wash, the hogwash sensation rears its head, and a thriller like this
can't survive the hogwash sensation. The whole thing looks
inappropriately sumptuous (fault of direction, sets and cinematography)
and overall it just induces irritation instead of enthralment. The plot
twists are crashingly predictable. Amnesia is strongly recommended for
those who bother to watch this pedestrian film.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are going to see this movie do NOT read this review - there are
plot spoilers - come back afterwards and see if I was right. OK - so it
was a reasonable enough thriller with a couple of suspenseful moments
but a book or a film that has plot holes as big as the ones perpetrated
here tend to make you gnash your teeth in irritation. Here are some of
the worst: Christine had the "accident" when she was 26 (she's now 40).
Where were her parents, aunts, brothers or sisters for the intervening
14 years? Would not one of them be visiting her on a regular basis at
the nursing home? Ben puts her into a nursing home because he can't
cope any longer and eventually divorces her but who is paying the
nursing home bills? When she is taken out from the nursing home by the
other "Ben" wouldn't the real Ben have wondered why he wasn't being
asked to pay any longer? The wedding album and the photographs. The
real Ben would have kept all those and they wouldn't have been
available for the other Ben to doctor them. The doctor: he'd have to
had Ben's consent to "treat" his wife. How did Christine make contact
with him? How would she know her own phone number? Or address? The
hotel where the first assault was made. Blood on the floor and in the
corridor. A woman's body covered in blood found in a nearby lorry park.
Er...didn't the police make a connection? The hotel staff might well
have done. I could go on for many more paragraphs but you get my drift.
You may want to wait until this one is at Â£3 on Tesco shelves.
<|_=00=_|>
The plot of the film is similar to 50 First Dates, where a woman wakes
up each morning forgetting everything that happened in her past after
her accident that caused the amnesia. However, the film does a good job
keeping the audience guessing who is real and who the true villain is
until the very end. There were a few times that my jaw was on the
ground, eyes were wide, I grasped the seat and stopped breathing when a
new plot twist appeared. The trailers for this film do not do it
justice. I was completely entertained and enjoyed the film. 

There is only one sex scene, no nudity, but there are a few brutal
violence scenes as well as some strong language in this film. I would
not recommend this film for young viewers. The film is only 90 minutes,
but it moves fast and new things are revealed throughout the film. I
would not recommend leaving the film once it starts as you may miss a
key scene.
<|_=00=_|>
I agree with the reviewer who wrote that this was "three quarters of a
very good film." The cast is marvelous. Kidman brings movie queen
presence and guarded vulnerability to her role, as only she can. The
icy, remote, sparse atmosphere of the film is noteworthy, but somehow
creates a detachment from the raw emotions of the story. The plot
unfolds in an efficient, generally satisfying manner. However, the film
is sober, where it should have been flamboyant, and safe where it might
have been edgy. In the end, I was wishing this had been filmed with
panache, by a stylish and adventurous director. Atmosphere and
character developments might have been richer and more complex. As it
stands, it is a solid, classy, well-acted potboiler.
<|_=00=_|>
In a very real way, our memories are who we are - our identities as
individuals depend in an almost terrifying way upon our ability to
remember what we do (and what we've done), why we do it, and whom we
love. That's why the notion of memory-making (and losing) looms so very
large in the art we create. In the cinematic realm alone, characters
whose memories are sorely compromised have starred in thrillers
(Memento), romantic comedies (50 First Dates) and weepies (The
Notebook). Before I Go To Sleep, based on the novel by S.J. Watson, is
a chilling if not entirely effective blend of family drama and
thriller, trading on the heartache and horror that comes with losing
oneself every single day.

Christine (Nicole Kidman) wakes up every morning with no memory of the
last fifteen years of her life. Ben (Colin Firth), the stranger who
shares her life and bed, informs her that he is her husband and that
she lost her ability to make new memories after a bad car accident
several years ago. Any attempt to forge lasting memories seems futile -
and yet, Christine tries. She receives a phone call from Dr. Nasch
(Mark Strong), a neurologist who assures her that they've been working
to improve her condition. He reminds her that she's been keeping a
video diary every day: one that, upon review, suggests that Ben is not
telling her the whole truth about their shared life and history.

It's to writer-director Rowan Joffe's credit that he mostly manages to
make a very personal - and inevitably repetitive - journey of discovery
both cinematic and chilling. As Christine awakes each day with her
memory reset, Joffe finds inventive and intriguing ways to ramp up the
spinetingling alienation she feels from her own life and husband. He
captures Christine's terror, doubt and paranoia in the shuddery footage
she takes of herself while hidden away in the bathroom from a husband
she doesn't recognise. As the wheels within the narrative spin and
turn, Joffe's camera makes villains and heroes out of everybody: Ben,
in particular, shifts from one to the other on an almost daily basis,
as Christine doubts and then trusts the love this man must have for her
to stay by her side for so many years.

Unfortunately, Joffe can't quite sustain the tension throughout - the
film sags noticeably in parts, as Christine flounders miserably between
very few choices. There are many twists, as she uncovers people and
secrets in her past that will inevitably disappear from her grasp
within a day, including a final doozy of a revelation. But Joffe winds
up wasting much of this tension and intrigue with an oddly definitive
ending. In a film filled with questions, doubts and uncertainties, it
feels completely out of place and emotionally untrue.

Joffe's cast, at least, is unreservedly excellent. Kidman delivers her
most fascinating performance in ages, one that's equal parts vulnerable
and strong. Her Christine is very much a victim of her circumstances -
and possibly her husband - but Kidman skilfully imbues her with a
steely determination to reclaim her life and identity against very poor
odds. Firth, too, is fantastic, shading both light and darkness into
his trademark charm - enough to make us believe that he's the kind of
man who could love and/or betray Christine with all of his heart.

It's a shame, then, that the final frames of the film don't live up to
its promise or potential. Joffe has hit upon something truly unnerving
with his premise: Christine's condition provides the ideal backdrop for
either the perfect crime, or a love story for the ages. Before I Go To
Sleep quite effectively teeters between the two extremes, as does
Christine, but ultimately fails to follow through when the true depths
of its darkness are revealed.
<|_=00=_|>
A satisfying, keeps-you-guessing thriller. While amnesia is certainly
not the most original of plot devices, there's something unique here in
terms of truly portraying the emotional, daily hell an amnesiac and
loved ones must suffer. This is aided, by no small means, by strong
performances by Colin Firth and especially Nicole Kidman.

The plot definitely has suspense and there are sufficient twists and
turns to ensure that you truly can not predict the outcome. There's
also a nice combination of languid pacing intermixed with truly jarring
and lurid scenes. In some ways this had a dream-like (or, take your
pick, nightmarish) quality in tone.

A few plot holes make themselves known by the movie's end, but when a
thriller ushers you out the theater door while still meditating on
memory, marriage, and trust...I'd say that's a job well done.
