
So here's the thing: Saw Jersey Boys tonight. Now I've never been
interested in the stage version (I think musicals should have original
music) and I didn't really trust in Clint Eastwood directing a musical;
in short - I was ready to hate it (I've been called snob and
pretentious more than a few times). But let me tell you, I was dead
wrong.

It was AWESOME!!! The actors are stellar, the music is fantastic and
the film completely engrossing. I had a big goofy smile plastered
across my face from beginning to end. The audience clapped twice during
the movie (it was that good). It would not be hyperbolic of me to say
that this WILL get Oscar nominations. 

I will be seeing this movie again and again when it comes out June
20th. Do yourself a favour and do the same.
<|_=00=_|>
Great movie...great music...great actors...what more could you ask for.
I knew Eastwood began his life as a musician, but I didn't think he
would do such a great job with a pseudo-musical. Great job Mr.
Eastwood! 

I've never seen the musical, but I gotta tell you, if you love 60's,
70's & 80's Frankie Valli songs, your eyes too will adore this movie...
and your ears... and your heart... and the entire rest of your body.

It was heartbreaking at times...and I got chills several times while
finding out how they came-up with some of their songs...like the death
of his daughter. But, it was also very insightful into the lives of
kids with dreams and how committed one has to be to make it in the
music industry.

If I could give this movie a higher score I would. Our theater was
packed-full and everyone clapped afterwards like we were watching a
living bio-pic. I even saw a few people with tears in their eyes from
being so deeply affected by the beautiful music and memories in this
movie....so many great memories...that the songs take you back to.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I were extremely and pleasantly surprised. I've never been
into musicals...ever...my favorite up to this point was "The Sound of
Music," which inspired me to get into the film industry in the first
place, yet, we found ourselves seat dancing and bopping in our seats.
We really enjoyed the interpersonal approach of having the characters
each expressing their takes and their understanding of each situation,
which brought a lot of comedic character moments to the storyline and
subplots. 

But the the thing that impressed us the most, was the decision to make
the film NOT feel like a musical. No-one busted out in song at the
wrong time...and the singing moments felt completely unforced. It was
like watching a living biographical film. Great Directing job by Clint
Eastwood.

Lastly, we didn't realize how many great hits Frankie Valli & the Four
Seasons had. We thoroughly loved this movie....and can't wait to buy
the soundtrack.

The theater was pack...and it was the biggest theater in the Tampa Bay
area.
<|_=00=_|>
Going into the movie I knew and liked the Four Season's music, but was
unsure if I would like the movie (it would not have been my first or
second pick to go see). However, I was able to see an early viewing of
the film and took advantage of it. I must say I LOVED it. It had all of
the songs I loved. The film has the right amount of humor when needed.
I have not seen the Broadway show version. If you like their music it
is worth going just for that as it is a mix of recordings from the Four
Seasons and also recordings from the cast. While it is rated R for
language, I did not find it excessive. Erich Bergen's performance stood
out for me. 

I have never seen a Clint Eastwood film that he has been either a
producer or director. I was wary about seeing the film, but must admit
that I thoroughly enjoyed it. I would Recommend this film
<|_=00=_|>
There's a reason why the 1960s is widely known as the "Golden Era" of
music, specifically, the birth of what is now called Rock n Roll.
Comprising of four British teenagers from Liverpool, The Beatles
produced their first album (Please Please Me) in 1963 and went on to be
regarded as the greatest rock and roll band of all time. But just a
year earlier, in 1962, four boys from New Jersey made heads turn and
girls swoon with a unique 'sound' to their music. Jersey Boys is the
phenomenal true story of a 'sound' that took four boys from New
Jersey's mob controlled suburbs and made them into the icons they are
today  legends whose music is still celebrated more than five decades
on!

Produced and directed by another living legend  Clint Eastwood 
Jersey Boys is a Tony Award winning Broadway and West End musical
adaptation of the same name. Scripted by Woody Allen's Oscar winning
collaborate Marshall Brickman (Anne Hall and Manhattan), the story
benefits from a deeply dramatized account of the stage production, thus
making it a biopic rather than just a musical. This is why the audience
has to wait a good hour before Frankie Valli (John Lloyd Young) makes
our feet tap to the film's first real track: Sherry. But before we get
to hear Young's remarkable rendition of Valli's incredible falsetto
pitch, Brickman's story takes us through New Jersey's underworld circa.
Valli is a good Italian-American kid but his friend Tommy DeVito
(Vincent Piazza) is just the opposite. They are both connected to local
mobster Gyp DeCarlo (Christopher Walken). Taking Valli under his wing,
Tommy puts together a small time band but only manages mediocre returns
while also moonlighting as juvenile delinquents. This changes with the
arrival of Bob Gaudio (Erich Bergen), a golden goose of a singer- song
writer whose epiphany changes the band's name from The Four Lovers to
The Four Seasons. Then, with the addition of bass guitarist and singer
Nick Massi (Michael Lomenda), Sherry, their first song as a band,
becomes a hit and the group is instantly catapulted into nationwide
fame.

By the time we get to the band's all-time number one hit single, Can't
Take My Eyes Off You, there's trouble brewing. Domestic heartbreak and
tragedy, ego trips and quarrels, financial crises and mob intervention
turns cracks into fissures. Reminding us that this is in fact a stage
show adaptation, Eastwood creates individual perceptions by allowing
each member of the band to narrate his story directly to the camera.
While this might seem like a theatre-cinema blending technique (ala
Moulin Rouge!), it adds wholesome dimensions as a biography made for
the discerning cinema audience. Adding on to that dimension is the
juxtaposition of organized crime with the evolution of Doo-wop into
rock and pop. In fact, there is a brief reference to Frank Sinatra, who
as legendary as himself, was known to have ties with Chicago's
notorious mobster Al Capone. To this effect, the story also includes
real life actor Joe Pesci (Joey Russo) as a talent scout who recommends
Bob to the band. Synonymous with mobster roles in previous films,
Walken himself might seem like a cliché, but instead is entrusted with
the film's humour and he delivers. Characterization from the rest
leaves more to be desired. Young as front man Valli and Piazza as Tommy
are more theatrical than expected in a film. It's a different matter
when we get to see them perform as musicians  simply astonishing!

That there is no reference to era specific bands like The Beach Boys or
the Bee Gees can be another letdown. Instead, Brickman's script remains
parallel to the stage production with emphasis on an underdog
rags-to-riches plot arc. Even so, as Eastwood's first musical
adaptation, Jersey Boys has more hits than misses (excuse the pun).
Like the Academy Award winning Walk The Line, a lot of focus has gone
into the back story by dramatizing the true cost of fame and fortune.
Above all, it is a brilliant narration on how pain and loss can
conceive everlasting music. And judging from the need to make this
film, it's no surprise that the music of Frankie Valli and The Four
Seasons will always remain evergreen.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the stage play 27x in Chicago and 1x on Broadway. I was fully
prepared to hate The movie. But, I thoroughly enjoyed it. It's not easy
to take a stage production and make a good movie. Some reviewers say it
started out slow but so did the musical. Jeez, you have to get the
beginning of their story! Eastwood kept the same premise by letting
each member tell their story...you know there's each person's
perception and then there's the real story. You can watch this movie
and tap your feet and clap with the music. There was no one behind me
so I got up and danced in my seat a couple times!! There was applause a
few times in the theater just like at a stage production. There were a
few things Clint changed that I wish he had left alone. There were a
few things he expounded upon that I enjoyed. I will be going back over
and over and over again. This is a good time to be had by all. I'd like
to slap some professional critics who panned it. They are way off base.
<|_=00=_|>
In a theater packed with more people than I've seen attending a matinée
in a long, long time, it would seem that each and every person in there
enjoyed a toe-tapping, finger-snapping, head-bobbing, 'I-want-to-sing-
along' experience during this dance down memory lane. And it wasn't
only those who were there when all of this came down, but those too
young to have been a part of that scene were having a great time. The
casting and directing could not be more excellent than they are for
this movie. And it isn't only the music, which is marvelous, but the
look into the relationships of the people involved in this moment in
time that is fascinating. A peek into their history, their character,
the way their lives played out - this is a well put together film When
a picture ends with people applauding, you know you've just seen a
winner. When you walk out and hear folks saying, "I'm sure going to
have to buy this when it comes out.", you really can appreciate the
fact that you weren't the only one in there having a fun time. There
are only a few directors whose films you know you can always count on
for quality  Eastwood has most certainly proved he's one.
<|_=00=_|>
It was not my call to see this movie but so glad I went along for the
ride! It has at least a little something for everyone and a LOT for
Frankie Valli fans. Granted, the narration is a little distracting at
first, but you quickly get so into the story and the characters; the
good times and the bad, that you adapt to it quickly. I thought I was
tired of their music but I couldn't get enough of it. After several of
the songs, the entire audience clapped as though we were at the
performance portrayed in the movie. Eastwood knows what moves us, what
makes us laugh and how to get us on our feet. He delivers it all big
time. Seriously, what more do you want from a movie?
<|_=00=_|>
I was born in 1964 so I wanted to see the costumes, hair, make up and
set the most. My daughter is a musical theater kid, so the fact that it
was based on the musical production I have yet to see was an added
bonus. I did not expect too much, maybe a little drama from the clips I
had seen. Probably sex, drugs, violence and swearing.

Boy was I in for a surprise. I absolutely LOVED every minute of "Jersey
Boys" I laughed and cried and was in awe with the sets, makeup,
costumes, hair and the characters chosen. The music brought me back to
my youth and so many memories from early life and my surroundings then.
The sound was exceptional. 

And guess what NO explicit SEX, no drugs except alcohol. There was very
little violence and only a few F bombs. How refreshing! Imagine that!
So much talent I did not even realize all that is missing until I
thought about it later. I only realized the movie runs a little long
after it was over. 

The audience LOVED it. Not once (finally) did I feel a strong urge to
shout "SHUT UP" to my co-movie goers because they were all too busy
watching the movie and enjoying it. Young and older generations alike!

Never before have I watched a movie that skipped over time so
flawlessly that your imagination was all that was needed to fill the
gaps. Brilliant. 

I am not a movie buff, I only go a hand full of times a year maybe.
There was not one thing I did not like about this movie. Not one. I
could see owning this and seeing it many times over!

See Jersey Boys!
<|_=00=_|>
I fell in love several times to most of these beautifully written songs
with Lyrics that spell out the trysts of our times in the 70's. 'Who
loves you pretty Baby' was one of my all time favs and when I heard the
music again I fell in love with love all over again.

It's really cool how great music affects your heart and soul as though
it transports our vivid memories right back into our body's cells. I
felt the same type of excitement as I did when I first heard it...and
first got laid to0 it.

Passion is passion is passion, and most of these songs were my anthems
with my lovers. When I heard "My Eyes Adored You," I just sat there and
quietly wept, thinking of the one I let get away...I wish I could say
it to his face.
