
I went to an awards screening of Les Miserables and left the cinema
speechless. Tom Hooper's direction and the cinematography, costumes,
art design and editing are nothing short of genius.

Hooper's idea to have the actors sing live really brings a deeper
emotion to the film not seen in other movie musicals. Hugh Jackman is
absolutely incredible as Jean Valjean and carries the film with
spectacular grace. Anne Hathaway is magnificent in her fleeting role as
Fantine - the film's sequence in which she goes on a downward spiral is
one of the it's best moments, and her ABSOLUTELY INCREDIBLE HEARTFELT
rendition of 'I Dreamed A Dream' will win her the Oscar by itself.

Also, a great supporting turn from newcomer Samantha Barks as the
heartbroken Eponine (look out for her waist - it's absolutely tiny!),
who is sure to be shot into stardom. Eddie Redmayne, Russell Crowe and
Aaron Tveit are also good, and there's some great comedy relief from
Helena Bonham Carter and Sacha Baron Cohen.

It will leave you laughing, crying, and feeling inspired. A great
watch, sure to win some major awards this year! 10/10!
<|_=00=_|>
This film is amazing. Absolutely incredible. I don't understand what
people are saying about pacing issues, I thought it flowed beautifully.
The changes made worked very well. And I didn't think there was any
weak link in the cast. I honestly loved Russell as Javert. He wasn't
traditional by any means, but what he did worked. 

The cgi was not the best, but it kind of created this fantastical other
world while still being realistic and grounded. 

So many of the acting choices were brilliant and subtle. For example
Jackman ever so slightly altered his voice with his characters aging,
which I thought was brilliant. 

There is no negative thing to say about this movie. However, I do see
why a critic may not like it. It's not a critic movie. There isn't a
lot of impressive violence, crazy camera shots, etc. the things critics
seem to love. It's more grounded in the performances and the story,
which it tells extremely well. 

The only thing I can point out (because I saw it with my boyfriend who
knows nothing about the story) there are two or three slightly
confusing plots for those who aren't familiar with Les Mis. But they
are either explained later on or not important enough to dwell on. 

Anyways, that's my rant. Needless to say I will be seeing it many many
times and cannot wait for the DVD so I can own it and watch it even
more.
<|_=00=_|>
As a massive film fan, my tastes are very wide-ranging, but I do have a
problem with musicals. Nevertheless I was happy to take the opportunity
of a private viewing of "Les Misérables" at the London office of
distributors Universal - the day after the London première and a month
before the UK release - because of the outstanding success of the
original stage show (a run of 27 years with a total audience of over 60
million) and the surprising and impressive cast list (Russell Crowe,
Hugh Jackman, Anne Hathaway, Sacha Baron Cohen, Helena Bonham Carter,
Amanda Seyfried and Eddie Redmayne). 

The showing was introduced by producer Eric Fellner of Working Title
who underlined the commercial challenge of making a film in which all
the dialogue is sung and the themes are so political and praised
director Tom Hooper ("The King's Speech") for his insistence that every
take was sung live.

The two main characters are presented in the opening seconds of a
sweeping introductory sequence: the police inspector Javert (Crowe) and
the prisoner 24601 Jean Valjean (Jackman) in post-revolutionary France.
There follows over two and half hours with barely a spoken word which
will not appeal to all cinema-goers, but the production is a triumph
with Cameron Mackintosh's musical opened up by dramatic shooting on
Pinewood's brand new Richard Attenborough stage and some historic
English locations. 

If Crowe and especially Jackman are excellent, Hathaway - who lost 25
pounds and most of her hair for the role - is outstanding as the
destitute Fantine and Cohen and Carter almost steal the show as the
comical Thénardier innkeepers.

I'm not sure how long it will take for "Les Misérables" to recoup its
investment cash- wise, but it's going to win award after award and
rightly so.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this film as a complete Les Mis virgin, having no idea as
to the storyline, and having never seen any previous production nor
having read the novel.

But I enjoy musicals (both in the theatre and film versions) and I went
with an open mind, and looking forward to seeing something a little
different from the norm. Sadly, within the first few minutes, I knew
I'd made a mistake, and this has become one of my most hated films of
all time.

Indeed, I always rate films but rarely review them, but I just had to
get this off my chest. Particularly because so many reviews seem to be
gushing about its brilliance, and although I'm fully prepared to admit
that my views are in the minority, I think it's important to air them
if only in the interest of balance and representation.

It didn't take long to realise that every single word of the dialogue
was to be 'sung'. I say 'sung' rather than sung, because it wasn't what
I could really refer to as singing. Just because one woooooord of any
given liiiiiine is extended like thiiiiiis, does not, in my mind, make
it 'singing'. In fact, if it weren't for the extended words in nearly
every sentence, the film would likely have been at least thirty minutes
shorter.

The lack of spoken dialogue really detracted from many of the scenes.
When even the most mundane of sentences has to be delivered in such a
way, it becomes grating. I wouldn't have been at all surprised for
someone to bellow out "pass the saaaaaalt". It was just awful. 

And the repetition! I understand that chords and themes repeat
throughout musicals, often linking similarities between scenes and
concepts and characters. It isn't that I don't understand that. But
this was too much. It was as though the same tones and flow were
repeated every four lines. Every. Four. Lines. With the third or fourth
wooooooords extended. Every. Single Time.

I'm getting wound up reliving the moment and I've waited till the
following morning before doing this review in case my opinion mellowed. 

It hasn't.

And the duration of the film only served to make it worse. Occasionally
the film would announce via on-screen text that it was now "8 years
later", or whatever. And I felt as though I'd been there for that
entire time. In fact, it felt like longer.

It became one of those films which leaves you feeling physically
drained from the effort of battling through it. It was that bad. It
felt like I've undergone a test of endurance and although I got through
it, it wasn't without mental scarring!

Beyond the monotony, repetition and delivery, there was the story,
which (perhaps as I had no prior knowledge of the source) was
nonsensical. People falling in love within a single glance, which then
goes on to motivate someone else to endure warfare to carry the person,
half-dead? Chasing someone for what, 17 years, because of breaking
parole for a loaf of bread, which itself warranted a previous 19 years
of suffering? Only to then throw yourself to your death?

Am I meant to believe these characters? Am I meant to care about them?

Anne Hathaway's deterioration from factory worker to cropped and
toothless prostitute was compacted into all of 42 seconds, so when it
came to her performance of I Dreamed A Dream (which was a rare
highlight in the film) its impact was stunted because why should we
care about this woman? She's only just been introduced to us and we
know nothing about her (presumably because everyoooooone is too busy
singing like thiiiiiiiis instead of actually making us caaaaaaare).

Yet apparently Hugh Jackman cares so much about her that he then
devotes his entire life to her child? It was mentioned at the very
beginning that he has a sister and a nephew of his own, why not take
care of them? Or were they dead (as he went to a cross in the ground
after being paroled) but if that's the case it wasn't explained well.

A film should be able to stand on its own two feet and not require its
audience to have read the book or seen the musical. The Harry Potter
books far exceed the movies, yet people can enjoy the movies on their
own merit. Not so with Les Mis.

And the casting was bizarre as well. I don't understand why the casting
was given to Hollywood actors instead of singers. Borat? Really?? And
accents were flying all over the place. Early in the film, when Hugh
Jackman is in the church, he suddenly sounds as though he's stepped off
the first boat from Ireland, and half of the cast of jumped straight
out of a Mary Poppins chalk drawing!

I can't find a single redeeming feature to mention about this film.
Miscast. Rubbish sets (most of it looking like obvious CGI). Repetitive
'singing'. No spoken dialogue. Nonsensical plot. Ridiculous pacing. No
character development or involvement. 

Beyond doubt one of the worst films I have ever watched, and I would
sooner have my teeth extracted by a French street urchin than ever have
to endure this horror again.
<|_=00=_|>
What an innovative film!

Contrary to one of the reviews which canned everything about the movie
from the plot to the actors' singing voices to camera angles (by
someone who, to me, is obviously not familiar with the live theater
productions of this musical nor it appears the he has ever been to
any), I find this movie version is a a state-of-the-art capture of one
the world's great musicals for the cinema screens!

The live singing is superb, showing the fragility (and flaws) of every
performer ... and that's what a live-performance is all about! This
movie captured a live theater production on screen for all cinema goers
who never had the chance to enjoy a live theater production!

Kudos to everyone involved! A must-see for all! And a must-buy for
those who wish to have a copy of this masterpiece for a keepsake!
<|_=00=_|>
The guiding ethic of any film adaptation of a legendary source must be:
"Change as little as possible." Those in charge of Les Miz knew
precisely what they were working with. A few songs are shortened, a
handful of lines altered, and a few scenarios condensed or adapted to
their original literary form, but the whole remains gloriously and
satisfyingly intact.

The Work Song is set to the image of a hundred convicts battling a
stormy sea to pull a listing ship into dry dockand only here does the
film's live-recording ethic fall short, as the music and voices lack
the power to match the imagery, seemingly washed out by the sea noise,
where the live musical would normally captivate from the first note.

Neither of them theatrical belters, Jackman and Crowe's performances
feel subdued in the opening scene. But the film finds its gravitas the
instant Colm Wilkinson appears as the Bishop of Digne, and from that
instant, the next two and a half hours are nothing less than the
repeated sliding of the viewer's soul up and down a finely-honed blade.

The ability to take close-ups gives the film an intimacy that is
unattainable on a Broadway stage, and power numbers are sometimes
reduced to a chilling whisper. Anne Hathaway destroys herself to bring
Fantine to life, and her incredible, personal pain washes in waves from
the screen. The tooth removal, normally excised from the musical, is
even back from the bookthough modified in location. Confrontation is
then viscerally set as a full-on close-quarters sword fight.

Film also allows a depth of scale that challenges the stage. The
transition to At the End of the Day is a grim and powerful scramble
through the slums of Paris, shaking the screen with the palpable rage
of a nation. Look Down is another tour de force, while Do You Hear the
People Sing emerges from a quiet, elegiac call to arms that organically
overtakes General Lamarque's funeral procession.

Samantha Barks' Éponine lights up in her every interaction with Marius,
and shots of her in the background of A Heart Full of Love are
soul-rending. But she suffers just enough tiny cuts that A Little Fall
of Rain is not quite as arresting as it should be, and the constant
close-ups amputate the power of a scene that should captivate not only
through its intimacy, but through the inactivity that washes across the
entirety of a once-violent stage.

Russel Crowe's soft-voiced Javert takes some getting used to, and while
it works more often than one might expect, he sometimes seems to be
singing with a sock in his mouthmost notably during One Day More,
where he seems to have been mixed in at a different volume level from
the rest of the cast. Yet the cinematography of Stars is simple yet
stunning, and Javert's Suicide suffers nothing in this interpretation.

M. Thénardier endures a few cuts (most notably the truncation of Dog
Eats Dog), but Sacha Baron Cohen steals enough asides and chews enough
scenery that his part hardly feels reduced.

The background has been filled in with elements from the novel, and
those who have read Hugo's epic will appreciate nods to Fauchelevent
and the Petit-Picpus convent, Gavroche's elephant-home, Marius'
grandfather, and the tavern behind the barricade. There is even a quick
cut to Gavroche when Éponine is shot, winking at their normally
undisclosed sibling relationship.

Even the finale remains perfectly and satisfyingly intact. The only
challenge with a film that so precisely parallels its stage inspiration
is resisting the necessity to deliver a standing ovation once the final
note has been sung. If only they had found a way to incorporate a
curtain call.
<|_=00=_|>
As a huge fan of the musical, I have religiously followed this film
through its production from behind-the-scenes to trailers to
sneak-peaks. And let me tell you, Les Mis did not disappoint! From the
very beginning and the first swells of the orchestra's music, I was
hooked. And through the whole 2.5 hour movie, I was riveted.

Singing: Everybody was great! Russell Crowe was not PHENOMENAL, but was
excellent in "Stars" and "Javert's Soliloquy". Hugh Jackman, too, had
his weak moments...but really wowed during "Who am I?" and "Bring Him
Home". Anne Hathaway gave the best vocal performance, followed closely
by Samantha Barks.

Acting: A fantastic performance from the whole ensemble. Again, Anne
Hathaway blew everybody else out of the water. Samantha Barks, Eddie
Redmayne, Hugh Jackman and Russell Crowe were also excellent in terms
of emotional delivery. And Helena Bonham Carter and Sasha Baron Cohen
were the much needed (and absolutely hilarious) comedic relief. 

Production: One of the best period films I've seen. The costuming,
makeup, hair and set design were impeccable. I really liked how people
weren't made to be "pretty" as Hollywood often does; thankfully, the
actors' teeth were not left movie-star white.

Overall, one of the best movies I've seen. I cried at least 10 times
through the whole film, and the finale completely RUINED me. I was
sobbing a full 15 minutes after the movie ended, walking through the
theatre and out to the car.

Highly recommended for everyone!
<|_=00=_|>
As someone who has been burned by every single Hollywood adaptation of
Les Miserables, let me categorically state that this time it was done
right! Everything from the acting to the music to the sets was
borderline perfect. The only thing that could possibly be considered a
negative was something that was absolutely unavoidable. That is, when
you are taking a novel as voluminous as Les Miserables and condensing
it into a feature length movie, some things will be cut or rushed. This
is no exception. The movie moves at breakneck speed. Anyone who is fond
of the Broadway musical will no doubt not be bothered by it, but people
new to the story or those who have only read the novel might be put off
by it.

As far as the acting and music is concerned, I can find very little to
fault. Russel Crowe was the weakest of the lot as I just didn't find
his voice to be up to the task of singing some of Javert's songs (Stars
immediately springs to mind). Hugh Jackman, Anne Hathaway, and Samantha
Barks were all especially good. The intense emotions their characters
experience throughout the story are perfectly performed.

This naturally leads to a critique of the music. Anyone familiar with
the Broadway show will undoubtedly find themselves joyously mouthing
along to the familiar lyrics and might be surprised at a couple of
brand new songs written specifically for the movie. Just as in the
show, the music is brilliant and meshes wonderfully with the story.

One of the biggest treats, however, were the sets and special effects.
The beauty and squalor of 19th century Paris was showcased
magnificently and it really allowed you to become engrossed in story.

This is a movie that both fans of the novel as well as fans of the
musical can both fall in love with, since even though there are some
deviations from the novel this is still the closest a film version has
ever come to being completely faithful to the book. Additionally, this
movie is a perfect chance for those who have never read the book or
haven't heard of or had a chance to see the Broadway show. I
wholeheartedly recommend this film to everyone. My only warning is to
limit your fluid intake, since at 2.5+ hours your chance of
encountering an overflowing bladder is a very real danger.
<|_=00=_|>
I am quite frankly flabbergasted at the amount of positive reviews by
viewers and professional critics given to this movie. I do not remember
the last time that an audio-visual experience inflicted me with so much
pain, both mentally and physically. I think my theatre seat still has
indentations from me clutching the chair frantically throughout the
movie. I felt like the Clockwork Orange protagonist when he's tied down
to a chair and fed those nauseating stimuli (the main difference being
that he got to listen to some quality music in the process). It is
probably the worst movie I have ever seen. And I've seen a lot of
hubris in my time.

The review by MouthyMatthew summarises it the best. Over the top.
Chords and themes excruciatingly repetitive (How possibly wouldn't they
be? I mean, every line in a 159 minute movie has been "sung", down to
the most banal mundane statement you can imagine.). The movie
successfully drains your life energy as it progresses, since you have
to employ a supernatural effort to stick with the characters' lines. 

What would be a series of seemingly important storyline details ends up
receiving a very cursory treatment. For instance, Fantine's tragic life
trajectory. Furthermore, why on earth would they hire Hollywood
bigshots with a singing talent of a sexually frustrated walrus to play
these parts?? And the accents, oh, for the love of god. What the hell?
Overall impression: laughably sappy (yet unconvincing) and above all
insufferable.

In my humble opinion, I think people should not see this movie if they
have not been exposed to the story earlier, by reading the book or
seeing a good musical production of it. I truly hate that this will be
my first impression of both the story and the characters, the one that
I will always be stuck with.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a man who stole a piece of bread to feed
his sister's child. He was in jail for almost twenty years. He lives a
fugitive life, complicated by his pledge to help raise the daughter of
an unfortunate woman.

"Les Miserables" is a wonderful film. Right from the start, it captures
every viewer's hearts. It makes three hours seem like ten minutes. It
is so touching and so poignant that everyone in the cinema cried like a
baby. Throughout the film, the sound of tissue packets opening and
closing was a permanent addition to the soundtrack. For me, I just let
my t shirt be drenched in tears, as if i have had a strenuous workout.
I thought the Anna Hathaway soliloquy was already with the ticket
price, but masterpiece scenes like that keep on coming. I was
dehydrated from all the water I lost from tears by the end of the film.

It's amazing how the film can take us through every emotions there is.
From the relentless struggle for existence, the the uplifting
revolutionary spirit, the fatherly love and the encompassing integrity
of Jean. Everything keeps emotions high, and love i find my tears
literally in a freefall mode without even knowing why. "Les miserables"
is a wonderful masterpiece, and is certainly one of the best films I
have ever watched.
