
I thought I went to go see Paranormal Activity 3... you know, like the
one in the trailer with a seance gone brutally wrong, house on fire,
jumping girls from the upper story, medium coming to rid the house of
bad spirits, closet ghost knocking games, crying girls huddled in cars,
mom being flown out of bedroom, and water being thrown on a ghost to
reveal that its shape is actually there. But no, I ended up seeing a
crappy excuse for producers thinking they are being creative and edgy
by changing it from the trailer and making it a story about satanic
women rituals. I've already seen that horrible remake. I wanted to see
a Paranormal Activity, not "The Wicker Man / The Last Exorcism".

I hope someone sues the creators for false advertising by not making
ANY scenes from the trailer into the final cut. That honestly makes me
mad. The Paranormal movies were made on the premise of being about a
haunting of demons; adding in the "cult" aspect just changes things. We
were drawn in on the fear of the supernatural, not satanic women. I
want to see the movie from the trailer, not what they decided was the
best and scariest cut for theaters, because that version was terrible.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a professional critic, nor am i a critic in a general
circumstance. But after watching this film it really inspired me to
create an account on this site to express my views and opinions.

Well i understood the story line of this film and thought it could be a
great concept, going back to before all the shenanigans of the first
and second paranormal activity to when Katie and Kristi were children
who are influenced highly by a spirit called "Tobi". Which in turn gave
me great expectations for this film, i was terribly mistaken. 

The first hour of this film is filled with nothing more than the usual
scare tactic employed in the last 2 films which does work to a certain
degree but also grows old very quickly as its all be done before in the
last 2 films. A slight mix up was the camera attached to a fan trick,
which i did find a good idea although even that wore thin. Also took
away from the fear aspect of the film was the comedy factor which they
seemed to incorporate which personally i believe has no place in the PA
films. I also thought that the scene in the kitchen was a ridiculous
play on the scene in the 2nd PA, could have been a bit more creative
there.

After the first hour passed i believed the film was beginning to pick
up and bit and actually had me frightened for a short period of time.
Before i continue after this is a SPOILER!!. Why this film turned into
somewhat of a cult film was beyond a joke. It completely took away from
the main isolated fear aspect that the film was famous for. The ending
was completely ridiculous leaving and unbelievable amount of questions
unanswered.

1. Where does it show you anything to do with the house burning down?

2. Why weren't any of the clips in the trailers in the actual feature?

3. It never explains what the entity actually is?

4. How did the mother actually die in the film? And where does it show
that she is actually dead at the top of the staircase?

5. Why does the ghost haunt the children although it is meant to haunt
the first born son?

6. Where did a cult ever play a part in any of the other films?

All in all this film was a complete let down, and i wouldn't recommend
anyone to pay any amount of money to go and view this, even just to
understand the story its not worth seeing, as it does not answer any of
this.

P.S as well as all of this, the reaction of the people in the cinema
watching this took away from the fear as a lot of laughs were had.
<|_=00=_|>
Of Paranormal Activity 3, I can tell you this much: Chances are, if the
first one didn't do much for you and you found the second one to be
kind of blah and repetitive, there's no way you'll like the third one.
That's a fact. The setup and premise are familiar, even if the
characters are not. So as such, I can understand someone's not liking
this one much at all. But. I personally found the first and second ones
to be pretty scary  even when, in the second one, I knew stuff was
going to happen. It has to be a good film when you're surprised even
when you expect something, right? So, right or wrong, I loved this
movie. It gave me what I was seeking, and more.

Whereas the second film was set shortly before the first one, this film
takes a look at the childhood of Katie, the protagonist of the first
film. You may recall that as the first movie progressed, Katie became
convinced that something was after her specifically  but she couldn't
imagine why. This movie attempts to resolve that issue. And you sort of
have to give credit to a movie that resolves some things while leaving
other threads dangling just enough to make one wonder what the hey is
going on.

It's 1988. Young Katie lives with her younger sister Kristi, her mom
Julie, and Julie's boyfriend Dennis. Strange things are afoot in their
house, around the same time that young Kristi begins communicating with
an imaginary friend named Toby. Is it a normal kid phase, or is it
something more sinister? As with the other films, cameras are placed
around the house to capture anything odd that may happen during the
night. (In a clever bit of ingenuity, Dennis takes apart an oscillating
fan and places a camera on it so that he can pan from living room to
kitchen and back.)

What makes a movie like this work for me is the same thing that made
The Blair Witch Project work (and its sequel not work at all)  it
feels voyeuristic, as if we were simply peeking in on some family's
everyday lives. Reasons are given for the constant filming (Dennis
tells Kristi, for example, that he's "testing" his new camera as they
have a tea party.) We're automatically drawn to the video footage. What
will we see? We're now ready for something  will it jump out at us?
Will furniture be overturned? Or something even worse?

The mood is another huge selling point. People react as you'd expect
them to. Dennis is obsessed with finding out what's causing those
noises and other disturbances; Julie thinks he's completely off his
rocker and becomes more testy as time goes by. People who also
experience the occurrences, like a babysitter and a friend of Dennis,
are stunned to the point of not wishing to discuss the matter further,
hurriedly leaving as soon as possible.

Now, I can't say that everyone, even those who love to be scared, is
going to love this as much as I did. For me, since we see almost
everything through the lens of a camera, the terror  and the
anticipation  are grossly heightened. When that door is opened, what
will we find? It's not going to be pretty, but unlike a standard horror
film where one can simply slough off a shock as being too fantastic,
here we're so easily drawn in by and engaged with our surrogate family
that we feel as terrified and mystified as they do.

Paranormal Activity 3 won't answer everything that the first two may
have left unsolved, but it does offer hints as to why, in the present
day, these events are still occurring to Katie and her family. We see a
part of that genesis, and it's not really what I expected. I was
unsettled and thankful I hadn't seen the movie at night. Okay, that
might be a little hyperbolic, and when some of you actually watch the
movie you'll laugh at me for being skittish. I don't care. I enjoyed
the movie, and that's all I'm concerned with.
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS

there are at least 4 scenes in the trailer that aren't even in the film
1 the two girls doing bloody Mary 2 the cup of water thrown on the
demons shape 3 the house on fire 4 the mom being tugged down the
hallway or bedroom 5 the little girl jumping from the balcony of the
staircase

I guess the producers just think people are stupid and will go anyway
(which they will) and they will be saving this stuff for the "never
before seen footage" on the DVD

SAVE YOUR MONEY
<|_=00=_|>
My sons and I are avid movie goers and especially like scary movies. We
saw PA and PA2 together. We saw the trailer for PA3 and were ready for
what looked to be a solid scary movie with some tying up of loose ends
with the plot. What we found was a tired rehash of the same plot with a
few new characters. The pivotal scenes from the trailer were completely
absent from the movie. 1) the knocking game at the closet 2) Kristi
walking along and jumping off the ledge of the girls' bedroom 3) the
film of the mother watching this in horror 4) Kristi throwing water on
"Toby" to show him to her mother 5) the paranormal investigator who
comes to the house and has his head slammed into the table 6) the
lights exploding one by one down the staircase 7) the house burning
down 8) the mother being thrown back when she says she wants to leave
All the scenes from the trailer that made me excited to see the movie,
inexplicably absent. This movie would have been much better with these
scenes added. Instead, the movie ends terribly. What could have been a
real blockbuster ending, tying the three movies together, was actually
a complete dud. These guys and their franchise will never see another
dollar from me.
<|_=00=_|>
Reigning king of the "Gotcha!" moment, Paranormal Activity is back 
and though the premise may have worn thin, (how many compulsive
videographers can one extended family have?) its minimalist scare
tactics are as effective as ever. Scream for scream, the theater
experience is without rival; hushed gasps, nervous tittering, and
shrieks of surprise are empirical evidence of the films' effectiveness.
Hence the backlash when Paranormal Activity hit home video: these
movies cater to a crowd.

A prequel of sorts, Paranormal Activity 3 rewinds the franchise to
1988, illuminating the origins of the Presence that ran amok in parts
one and two. Helmed by Catfish directors Henry Joost and Ariel
Schulman, the flick treads familiar territory, but keeps the audience
on its toes. One of the major criticisms leveled against Oren Peli's
original was its predictable cycle of daytime exposition and midnight
scares. Rinse and repeat.

Screenwriter Christopher B. Landon, who also wrote the underwhelming
Paranormal Activity 2, does a better job this time of pitching the odd
changeup. With an omnipresent atmosphere of unease, no moment feels
entirely safe. And it goes without saying that the freaky stuff is much
more explicitly freaky. Rest assured the Rey family doesn't own a pool,
let alone a cleaning robot.

Probably the single most brilliant technical addition to the Paranormal
Activity repertoire is the oscillating camera. Panning ominously
between kitchen and living room, the simple mechanic works like a
suspense machine. Joost and Schulman certainly get their money's worth
out of the gimmick, milking it for some of their whitest white-knuckle
moments. Fashioned from a tabletop fan, the device is a perfect
metaphor for the franchise itself: cheap, homemade, effective.

But for ingenuity and inventiveness, the original is still tops. For
all its merciless suspense, Paranormal Activity 3 falls back on a few
too many false alarms ("Gotcha!") and bad payoffs, and offers no real
innovations in imagery. From Poltergeist to The Exorcist, it's easy to
tell where the directors pulled inspiration, almost copy-and-pasting
classic moments into the found footage aesthetic.

Then again, anyone expecting real innovation from the third Paranormal
Activity film is barking up the wrong tree. Part of the fun is how
loosely defined the abilities of the otherworldly antagonist are. It
possesses, communicates, and manipulates. But wait, there's more!
Paranormal Activity 3 plays like a grab bag of horror ideas and
iconography. Like any grab bag, not everything inside is interesting.

For one, hand-held footage plays a more prominent role than ever, which
strains the believability of some key sequences. Then there's hokey
filler like the "Bloody Mary" urban legend, which squarely fills the
vacancy left by the Ouija board on the Paranormal Activity blueprint.
And who could forget Randy (Dustin Ingram) and his transparent,
annoying attempts at comic relief?

Paranormal Activity 3 doesn't reinvent the franchise. It's not even the
best Paranormal Activity film. It doesn't need to be. Its aim is to
refine the series' mechanics and reinvigorate audience interest, and it
succeeds. So what's next? Likely what keeps Paramount executives up at
night is how to squeeze the supernatural saga for every penny it's
worth. Long live the reigning king of "Gotcha!"
<|_=00=_|>
Never so quickly have I seen a franchise get whored out in Hollywood. A
couple of years ago the world was hit with Paranormal Activity, making
you wonder what happens when you're asleep. It's the most successful
independent movie ever, with a small budget of fifteen thousand and
making over a hundred million is just incredible. But with big hype
comes a lot of back lash. I personally loved that film and it's one of
my favorite horror movies, taking the simplicity of what's in the dark
fears from our childhood and making our imaginations go crazy. Since
the film was a huge success, Hollywood naturally called on a sequel.
Paranormal Activity 2 was released a year later, pretty much claiming
the Saw franchise money. Paranormal Activity 2 was an alright film, it
wasn't as scary because we knew what to expect and with bigger budget
the effects could be a little too over the top at times. Paranormal
Activity 3 was advertised and I was thinking that this film was a
mistake, but I was just curious where they were taking the story so I
saw it opening night and this film blew me away. What a scary movie and
so perfect to add to the franchise making me want plenty more.

In 1988, young Katie and Kristi live with their mother, Julie, and her
boyfriend, Dennis. Kristi begins interacting with an invisible friend
named Toby. Dennis notices that since Kristi's friend appeared, strange
things have been happening in the house. While reviewing some footage
later, Dennis notices a strange incident with presence being shown on
camera. He invites his friend Randy over to view the footage, who
suggests that Dennis place cameras throughout the house to capture any
other incidents. After more disturbed nights and strange occurrences,
Dennis discovers a strange symbol in the girls' closet. He finds the
same symbol on a picture of women in a book about mysticism. Dennis
explains to Julie that the symbol belonged to a witches coven that
brainwashed young girls into having sons. Thus explaining more about
the two previous films.

A couple of flaws with the film being that one being based in 1988, the
film sure does look very crisp with it's picture. Wonder where the guy
got his video, obviously not Wal Mart. Secondly, there are still some
questions left unanswered, maybe due to the overwhelming success of the
first film the writers had to do what they could with Katie's story.
Only explanation being in this film is that the cult brainwashes
people, so maybe Katie and Kristi had a different story in the previous
films due to the spell. However, this film scared the heck out of me,
which takes a lot. The beginning does start off a little silly to me,
since again, you know what is going to happen. But not even 25 minutes
into the film, it does pick up again. The last fifteen minutes had me
frozen to my seat. A lot of people are complaining that the trailer has
completely different scenes than from the movie, I personally like it
that way because it keeps the film fresh and has you guessing. The
"bloody Mary" scene in the film is much more scary than in the trailer
in my opinion. Paranormal Activity 3 really did raise the bar and I'm
so glad. The characters a likable and the effects are actually top
notch and done effectively. There's a scene with the babysitter where
the demon is wearing a blanket and is standing right behind her,
believe me you'll have such major goose bumps from that scene. If you
like scary movies, you're going to love this film, I can't wait for the
fourth one and I'm glad that we finally went back to the basics of a
good ghost story. Though my suggestions to the characters: stop filming
the demon! That's obviously ticking him off.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
To be honest, I never liked Paranormal Activity movies. It's about
people who lived in a house with cameras and there are evil spirits
haunting them then all of the events are caught on tape. The idea is
interesting but the execution always end up being unsatisfying.
Paranormal Activity 3 is the very beginning of the series. It's not
actually a prequel. It's more of a backward trilogy to make the ending
of the rest of the Paranormal Activity films mysterious. Although, the
twist is a little bit predictable but Paranormal Activity 3 has a
decent story to tell with these found footage. And it really has the
scares. Finally, this series has a genuine scare.

Paranormal Activity 3 reveals all the mysteries of the first two
movies. Unlike the first two, instead of watching the lives of these
people and wait for the spirits to come out, this one really tells a
story through the videos. The story is not anything new though but the
execution is decent. The second Paranormal Activity narrates almost
everything in the story. Here you don't need it, you just have to look
at the video footage to know the story.

Aside from its storytelling, Paranormal Activity is all about the
scares. They improved the scares by moderating the slow burns and keep
the objects floating. The ghosts aren't quite invisible like the first
two. Here, it's campy. You can see its shadows. And of course, there's
a lot of threat from the ghost. The scares are more than just jump
scares. It has more terror and gumption to the thrills which is kinda
fun. The cameras are well shot. Everything is well made. But the twist
remains predictable for some reason.

Paranormal Activity 3 is not earning the fear anymore. It's now earning
the scares. It's great to see Paranormal Activity with exact scares
than wait for more than five minutes to be scared. It's not the
scariest horror movie of the year but it's the best part of the series
and also the most decent horror of the year. I still wanna see the
parts on the trailer that wasn't show in the actual film but Paranormal
Activity 3 is satisfying enough in its short runtime. Decent enough as
a found-footage-horror-film.
<|_=00=_|>
Horror movies tend to polarize opinions all the time... Far more than
the majority of movie genres. What one person might find scary may be
humorous to another person... So when I left the theater after a packed
screening of this movie , the audience seemed pretty polarized in their
opinions. It really is an example of a 'you either love it or hate it
movie' (Although some people may not take either extreme which is
absolutely fine) .I am one of the people who came out of the theater
loving it.

Paranormal Activity 3 is a prequel that goes back to the year 1988. It
follows the sisters Kristi and katie (from the last 2 movie's) 18 years
before the events of Paranormal activity 1. Its an origin story that
gives us a little more information but still leaves us feeling confused
and uneasy. 

The new cameraman (Dennis) acts as a foster father to Kristi and Katie
(The whereabouts of the real father remains open to debate) works as a
wedding moviemaker. This gives a decent enough explanation as to why he
seems to have top of the range filming equipment (for the era) . His
character comes across as more caring and less irritating than Micah
from PA1. The Mother of Kristi and Katie (Julie)came across as caring
towards her children. The children who play Kristi and Katie actually
come across and fairly decent actors.

The basic plot is like the last two movies. Strange occurrences are
happening at the house they are staying in. Dennis out of curiosity
decides to set up cameras around the house to hopefully find something
unusual. 

The greatest improvement of this movie over the other movies is
probably the pacing. I wont ruin anything (that hasn't been in the
trailer at least) but the younger daughter kristi has a seemingly
imaginary friend, called toby ,that she talks to at night. As the movie
progresses things get out of head fairly quickly and this imaginary
friends becomes something real and horrific.

The movie does a good job of taking us out of our comfort zones. We
feel confused and that confusion adds a sense of helplessness. While we
may know the formula of the last movies we know little about the
monster. What we don't see ,but know is there, usually scares us the
most. The camera footage itself comes across as grainy and lower in
quality than before (Again the trailer is rather misleading) . It makes
it feel more authentic. While you know its not real you cant help
getting sucked in by the movies world. There are also some clever shots
and effects (Scenes with the oscillating camera are ingenious at times)
.

The main complaints that I have with the movie are that sometimes the
actions of Daniel can be questionable and the ending left me feeling a
little unsatisfied.

That being said it doesn't detract from my own experience of the movie.
I was terrified! It may not terrify some (the ratings on IMDb show some
that already) but I think the best thing to do is go watch it and make
up your own mind
<|_=00=_|>
As I said in the title, if you enjoyed the first two films, this is
well worth seeing. Yes it does re-hash some concepts from the previous
two, yes there are some laughs, you may be left with some un-answered
questions, and yes, a lot of the scenes from the trailer aren't in the
actual film.

But you know what, if you want to see a masterpiece in inventive
horror, watch a DVD of The Exorcist. If you want to watch something
that will scare the crap out you psychologically, watch The Ring or The
Shining. This film is exactly what it says on the tin, the third
installment of a pretty decent series of films.

So some of the frights have been used before, they still made my heart
skip a beat when they were on a big screen. And the scenes from the
trailer weren't in the film itself, so what, the scenes that made up
the film itself were done well. I'm guessing if you're still reading
you're a fan of the first two films, if that is the case, ignore the
iffy reviews and go see.

If you want to be anal about trailer scenes, plot holes and "what is
the answer" questions, wait for the DVD.
