
This movie has a 6.4 rating as of May 2014 which is slightly too low I
think. I give it a 7.5 out of 10. I have noticed that thrillers, unless
they are great thrillers like The Usual Suspects etc.. are scored very
low because of two reasons. Firstly thrillers are general slow paced at
first and build suspense and tension. Some people lose interest
quickly. Secondly, some people just don't get it. Due to the audience
not following the dynamics of the thriller they score it low. 

The title Anna is a better title than Mindscape in my opinion because
the story is a personal story about the character Anna and the main
character's memory of his past love also named Anna. 

The main concept of Anna is not original and there are little things in
the movies that require you to suspend belief etc etc etc...like all
movies it is not perfect...but I really enjoyed the movie..I think the
acting was great from Mark Strong and the support cast..I didn't know
that the young girl, played by Taissa Farmiga, is the younger sister of
Vera Farmiga. She is excellent. 

I think the story was predictable and I would have done something
slightly different to make it less predictable but I can't explain
further without spoiling. Having said that I still really enjoyed the
movie. It is much better than most thrillers out there, some with much
bigger budgets. 

Some reviewers have posted on the message board that they didn't like
the details..I loved the details, this is what elevates the movie above
most..it may not always be believable but Hey! we are watching a movie
about a guy who can enter peoples memories, what was everyone
expecting...

It is a really interesting thriller that is well acted and despite
being predictable it has a very clever plot versus underlying plot
script...I recommend it above the majority of thrillers out
there....great work!
<|_=00=_|>
Again: Many spoilers ahead.

At first, I kind of liked this movie - the two lead characters are well
played, and so is their relationship as it develops through the
meandering memories and the developments in the supposedly real world.
It's adequately somber. The twists towards the end were a bit obvious
in my opinion - of course she was luring him to the house and setting
him up, and of course these were his memories, with the distant guy
watching in precisely the way the main character explains at the
beginning.

Unfortunately, once you start to think about the plot, it falls apart.

He's a detective, yet he doesn't really look at any of the clues he has
taken home (e.g., the yearbook) in any depth until after the case is
practically closed. Nice evidence board decoration he had on the wall -
he should have perhaps drawn one up for this case too. And when called,
he does this oh so old stupid movie mistake of rushing in without
telling anybody. When will movie writers finally stop using that?

Her side is even worse. There were signs of her interacting with the
outside world, e.g., her drawing of stairs where he believes to have
seen her. Was she able to occasionally escape? Apart from that, nothing
of her whole back-story was explained; did she or did she not commit
any crimes? Had she just been at the wrong place in the wrong time? How
much was fabricated by her, how much was honest? What was with that
"Mousey" confusion? Who was lying about what now? And finally: If she
wanted to be assumed dead to get away from her parents, didn't sending
the picture refute that purpose entirely? What is she living on now
anyway? If running away was all she wanted, she evidently didn't need
this convoluted plan to do so. When our main guy arrived at the house,
the doors were already wide open.

I guess you can explain some of those aspects away with "those were
just his memories of her memories", but frankly, I think that's just an
excuse for a script which was too obsessed with its twists.
<|_=00=_|>
The plot of Anna is a lot like the movie Inception or Dreamscape. So,
in that sense, the basic story idea isn't 100% original. It's set in
the near future where there are apparently investigators called remote
viewers or memory detectives who are much like psychotherapists who can
actually enter the memories of people to determine what has happened.
This can be useful in a therapeutic sense but can also be used to
determine someone's guilt or innocence. John (Mark Strong) is one of
these folks who can enter folks' memories and this is made more
difficult due to some of his own troubling memories. 

John's latest case is Anna (Taissa Farmiga)혰a teenager who is unusually
bright and perceptive혰but who also might just be a sociopath. However,
in viewing Anna's memories, John feels for the girl and thinks that
perhaps folks are conspiring to have her committed to an institution
when she is quite sane. Why? She's an heiress and her step-father might
be setting her up to steal her fortune. But, through the course of the
film it becomes more and more difficult for John to trust all the
memories of Anna's that he's seen혰and she might have some sort of
strange hidden agenda. What's REALLY going on? And, by the end of the
film, this might STILL be a question you are asking yourself.

This is a movie you best watch while you are 100% percent focused. The
ending, in particular, is confusing and might benefit from repeated
viewing. I did this and understood what the filmmakers were trying to
do혰but also noticed some plot problems at the same time. In particular,
the film hinges on a panicked phone call John gets late at night from
Anna. It sounds like someone is being killed! John does NOT phone the
police. He does NOT take along anyone as a witness and he just blindly
walks into what turns out to be a trap. Yet, at the same time, he's
supposed to be a very smart and competent man! If you can ignore this
serious confound, the film is pretty exciting as well as very well
acted. Strong, in particular, is really good in the lead, as is
Farmiga. In fact, the acting is the best aspect of the film. Despite
these being relatively unknown names, the actors did a really fine job.
The music also was quite fitting and tense. If only the film's plot
problem near the end was cleaned up a bit, I would have given it a
higher score. But what good is a mystery-suspense film when there is
such an obvious plot problem? The film is interesting and worth seeing
but not exactly a must-see for me.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the reviews of this movie that I read on this site, I went
into this film with high hopes. 90 minutes later,I was truly perplexed
as to what all the buzz was about. Maybe films today are so bad that
even "average" rates as "very good"? Well, I don't know, and while the
film was not a total waste of time, it had little to offer,and was not
as half as interesting as the reviews had lead me to believe it would
be. The good: The beginning of the movie is very well set up: the movie
takes place in the not too distant future where there are people who
have the ability to recover and view the memories of others. The
protagonist of the movie is a broken down memory reader in need of
money and so he goes back to his old employer in search of a job.He is
given a "simple" assignment: get a very precocious teenager to eat. But
said teenager is *very* smart and not what she appears to be... Both
the male lead (the returning memory recovery expert) and female lead
("Anna",the teenager) are played very well. The bad: Very convoluted
plot, which devised to make the movie intriguing,in the end was a
little over the top and maybe too clever for its own good. The ugly:
The ending. Much ado about nothing. I was surprised that after all the
complex twists and turns in the move it all came down to (what was in
my opinion) an ending that is simple but unfortunately didn't really
make much sense.
<|_=00=_|>
Anna, or Mindscape as the original title goes, rides heavily on the
presence and acting capabilities of its two main leads, Mark Strong as
John, a psychologist with mind reading abilities, and Taissa Farmiga as
Anna, his young and eerily disturbed patient. The film itself revolves
around the idea that certain humans have developed their latent psychic
abilities to such a degree that they can read the minds of others and
thus help them overcome traumas and illnesses of the mind. Yeah, it's a
bit Inception-esque, but it's different enough in style and atmosphere
that you won't mind.

Still, the best part about this film is Mark Strong. His quiet
dignified performance holds almost all of the scenes together and his
interactions with Farmiga are very interesting to witness. Farmiga's
performance suffers a touch from her relative inexperience, at least
compared to Strong. You can definitely tell that she's acting in the
earlier scenes, but she gets better quickly and her character as a
whole nails the eery wonder child trope.

Plot-wise the film is nothing special, being relatively easy to predict
and offering no real twists, but it's more of a moodpiece in any case.
I would have liked for the actual mindscape scenes to be a bit more
creative and the story as a whole to be a bit more overreaching in
scope, but those lacks only mean that the film is merely good instead
of great.

Mindscape is worth a watch if you're looking for a thriller with a more
thoughtful tone and lacking in excessive brutality and gore.
<|_=00=_|>
First let's get the whole "dynasty" issue out of the way. These days in
Hollywood, more care and attention is spent launching the careers of
offspring/sibling than at any other point in film history. For example,
in other reviews, I commented negatively on Will Smith's courageous
attempts to turn his son into the next de Niro. Not going to happen,
sorry Will.. This is a different story. Taissa Farmiga has got spark,
she's got grit, she's got glow. This is a dynasty that just might find
some traction.

Next let's talk about the science because most people won't even know
there actually is science. The original title of the film was Mindscape
which was borrowed/stolen from the scientific work of the same name by
Dr.'s Targ and Puthoff, based on their work done at SRI in the 80s.
Using double-blind protocols, their work established for the first time
the scientific validity of the RV phenomenon, even though the media
mocked them for years afterwards. In other words, the science for this
film is not necessarily from Crazytown. That's helpful to know.

As for the film itself, it is surprisingly engaging given its very
strange pedigree. Directed by a Spanish director, the film has not one
but three major British talents --- Mark Strong, Brian Cox and Indira
Varma-- all going "accentless" just for this production.

Overall, this film is also unusual in that it faithfully demonstrates
the stoic and disciplined direction one generally associates with
British TV drama -- although clearly intended for US audiences. The
above comment is actually not a criticism at all, but (to be fair) US
viewers may find the pacing slow. It isn't. It is just very, very,
controlled.

Mark Strong's character is the "glue" that keeps the film together This
requires him to be simpatico with the audience, and he is. Ironically,
the actual script requires Strong's character to "have trouble staying
grounded" (quote), yet it is precisely Strong's ability to ground the
film that keeps it flowing.

As for the story itself, to go into detail would likely spoil it. I
would really really like to tell you that the theme behind it is new
but it simply isn't. (If you are a curious cinephile, look up the 2003
production LIFE OF David GALE.)

Bottom line: good clean fun. But what this film will be remembered for
is young Farmiga.
<|_=00=_|>
Mark Strong has a loyal cult following, and I can get on board with
that. He's interesting to watch. But this film isn't worthy of its
leads. The story isn't clever enough, and the movie relies too heavily
on clich챕s to create atmosphere.

Rather than casting a Brit in the role of Anna, the British actors
(Strong, Brian Cox, Indira Varma, Richard Dillane and Saskia Reeves)
all accommodate newcomer Taissa Farmiga by adopting faux American
accents. The whole film, complete with blue filters and a couple of
outdoor shots of some American Metropolis with no name (it's filmed in
Spain), is a kind of inauthentic American thriller.

The premise is clunky, requiring some awkward exposition from the
outset. This must be some time in the future, because detectives can
read minds now. Strong's "John," (no last name), while recovering from
a personal tragedy which is interfering with his work, is assigned to
"Anna" (also no last name), a teenager with an eating disorder. Even
the names in this movie are generic. In a plot device shamelessly
lifted from "Inception," the film that "Anna" desperately wants to be,
John's wife loses a child and uses her husband's gifts to live in her
memories, ultimately unable to escape her virtual reality. We never
meet her.

Anna's messed-up parents never really get their comeuppance, which is
unsatisfying. In her home, she's monitored by a nurse, Judith (Varma),
through a camera installed in her bedroom. I've never heard of such a
thing happening in real life. The nurse hits it off with John
instantly, although there's zero chemistry on camera, and after a
perfunctory date in a depressing bar, John politely declines an
invitation to "come upstairs" within 24 hours of meeting her. These
people are all very unprofessional.

When the nurse is thrown down the stairs, purportedly by Anna (we never
actually find out whether she did this or any of the other horrible
things she's been accused of), John goes to the hospital and clutches
Judith's hand as though she's the love of his life. She spends about 5
minutes on screen throughout the whole film. Cox is similarly
underused. Accused of serious misconduct which later proves to be
groundless, we're never really sure what to make of him, and ultimately
it's not pertinent to the plot anyway.

The film requires serious suspension of disbelief. For an empathic
detective, John is bafflingly obtuse. He treats a young girl (with a
history of sexual abuse by an older teacher) in her bedroom, of all
places. The treatment requires them to hold hands. Anna flirts brazenly
with him from day one, but a few mumbled comments about transference
notwithstanding, he never distances himself from her. She sketches him,
watches him sleep, and at the end of their treatment, she hugs him, as
does her mother. In real life, a psychiatrist/mindreading-detective
would be like "WHOA!"

In fact, it's not clear why John is allowed to "treat" a vulnerable
child with obvious mental and behavioural issues, let alone administer
sedatives prescribed for her mother. He's a detective, not a
psychiatrist. Who gives children sedatives after a trauma anyway,
outside of an intensive car unit? And how is this new, unproven method
of entering a person's mind and witnessing their memories deemed
appropriate for an unbalanced juvenile? And how does it actually work?

However it works, Anna seems to be more cunning than everyone else in
this film, which beggars belief. John makes so many obvious missteps
you wonder if he's ever seen a movie before. I felt like yelling at
him, like you do in pantomimes. "Don't go into the woods!"

I'm still not clear on what Anna actually did and what she didn't do.
The twist towards the end neatly resolves all of the outstanding plot
holes, in the same way that finding out the whole movie has been a
dream is a resolution. It was profoundly unsatisfying. John, released
from the pain that's been haunting him for years, celebrates his
new-found freedom by "going upstairs" with the nurse we forgot existed.
It's almost identical to the ending of the underwhelming "Blood," in
which he also plays a detective, also with Brian Cox.

None of the characters in this film are developed in a way that makes
them relatable, and you never invest emotionally in them. Anna herself
is cold and robotic rather than engaging and seductive, and despite
Strong's tangible talent, and a lot of superfluous smouldering, we
never really get a handle on his character. He's just a cardboard
cut-out of an American detective with personal issues. Maybe if we'd
seen more of his relationship with his wife, instead of just a glimpse
of blurry memories and a photo that could have been clipped from a
catalog. The nurse was more of a plot device than a person, so we never
get to see John engage with anyone on a human level. 

Strong and Cox are actors of substance, and it's a pity to see them
wasted on an underdeveloped story. Farmiga isn't bad, but she's too
young and inexperienced to carry a film. I'm not sure who they're
pitching this to: savvy "Inception" fans, or the teen-girls who might
have watched "The Bling Ring." I doubt it will satisfy either audience.
Why they changed the name "Mindscape" to the mindlessly generic and
well nigh unGooglable "Anna" is beyond me. 

"Anna" is an okay way to kill a couple of hours, if you don't have
anything else to do. But Dorado's attempt at a Hitchcockian suspense
movie falls flat. If you want to see Strong in a moody noir-ish
thriller, try "Welcome to the Punch," a proper British film where
everybody uses their real accent. Or just watch "Tinker Tailor Soldier
Spy" again.
<|_=00=_|>
I like the idea of reading one memories. Although an old concept from
cinematic point of view, I have always found a memory reader
interesting, because memories are not a recollection of events. It is
an interpretation. Hence, the concept of a memory reader is a trickier
than one would expect.

Most of the films and TV shows get this concept completely wrong. Anna
was different. It actually showed how memories are interpretations of
past events. The psychiatrist in a bid to find out the deep rooted
issues of the teenage girl realizes how her memory cannot be completely
trusted to figure out time-line of events that made her psychologically
disturbed.

The movie was extremely engaging till the climax ruined it all. I would
try not to give away any spoilers but all I can say is the ending is
utterly insipid, lack-lustrous and a total spoilsport to what could
have been an inspiring psychological thriller. It seems as if the
director Jorge Dorado did not wish to provide a twist in the end but
did it just for the sake of giving one! What a sad sad way to make a
disaster!

Do not waste time on this movie. Period. Exclamation mark.
<|_=00=_|>
Mindscape is a movie where You as the viewer should pay close attention
and try figuring out whats going on. I would recommend watching this
alone so you can immerse yourself fully into it. This film does not
explain everything in the first 5 minutes, it wants you to follow, so
don't give up and you will be rewarded. Watch it twice if you have
questions (I had a lot), but thats the whole charm of it, a movie you
think about longer than you watch it. Besides that, the movie is
beautiful shot well directed and has very good actors despite the fact
that I did not know all of them which is kind of refreshing.

This is a definitive must watch 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
MINDSCAPE is a rather routine sci-fi thriller that pays obvious nods to
previous movies like INCEPTION and PAPERHOUSE. The main character is a
kind of psychological detective who, through the MacGuffin of
near-future technology, is able to enter into the head of participants
and observe their memories playing out.

It's a rather familiar premise and one they don't really do much with ,
despite best intentions. I appreciated the film's low key atmosphere
and the occasional scene of brooding tension, and Mark Strong is a
pleasure to watch as an actor, as always. But it's the script that
falls down here and ends up being a lot less than the sum of its parts.
The pacing is slow and there's an almost entire lack of incident, and
by the end it just fizzles into a near-zero stakes game which didn't
interest me whatsoever.

It's a pity, as a decent supporting cast (Noah Taylor, Indira Varma,
Brian Cox) and a good performance from the fresh-faced Taissa Farmiga
(sister of Vera) add up to not much at all.
