
If you want to watch Scarface - go watch Scarface. This movie isn't.
KTS is a 180 from the majority of crime classics and their many
copycats. 

The factor that clumps most crime genre flicks together is the top-down
perspective. For instance, in the Departed it was the rats joining up
with the heads of their respective sides of the law - Costello and
Queenin. The same with Pauli in Goodfellas, the Don in Godfather.

KTS splits apart because it is a film about crime from the perspective
of the prey. The opening shot is a junkie in a cold, wet New Orleans
wind, lost in a whirlwind of trash against harsh white sky. This is the
view of hopelessness - its also the familiarity of many post-disaster
neighborhoods. These characters absorbed into the criminal underworld,
not because they are evil, but because they haven't many other options
and they're too dumb to know the danger they are in. This is the what
KTS communicates to us with the background broadcast of the '08
elections and financial meltdown. 

When bullets fly in this film - you feel it, because you feel for the
characters, which is why having Cogan as its opaque center is so
blisteringly effective. He is pragmatic, unapologetic and a completely
objective lens to see through. He is the balance between the corrupt
political overcast and slime at the bottom of the barrel. 

"America isn't a country. It's a business."

Cogan is the the cleanup for the corporation. He snips the buds, ties
up the loose ends. He is the inevitability of the business world.

"They are all nice guys." 

The humanization of the characters drains you as one by one they slip
into darkness. Cogan's jaws open and you understand that the characters
are rats in a labyrinth, they are all gears that will eventually be
discarded. The soundtrack rhetoric quite fluidly illuminates the
movies' greater statement. With all the economic jargon in a ping-pong
propaganda game there are people sleeping out on the streets - and a
hungry dog has to eat. And all the way up the food chain, through a
shady poker game in the back of some shut-down strip mall, to the
podium and our new elected president, everyone is a hungry dog here. 

This is a methodical film that takes its time with each individual
scene. It plays with time and space, slowing down, drifting in and out
and then exploding. Cogan walks through the sparks and smoke, he is our
escort in understanding the nature and design of things, and he does
with an unforgettable composure. 

The elements of the film - acting, cinematography, etc, adapt to its
scope and drive, the purpose that the makers sat down and did it. Each
end does its job, and considering where you end up there's not much
room for improvement in any area. Is it the Godfather? No. But its
something completely different, and for what KTS was intending to
accomplish, it was excellent. 

Don't be deterred by the negative reviews, but don't go in expecting
the recycling of Scorsese and Copella. This a picture of its own kind,
of its own vision. Let it move you.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was done in a style that was quite unique from your standard
issue shoot 'em up or Scorsese gangster movie in a number of ways I
found refreshing. It slowed down the pace of dialogue scenes to a
relatable and believable level, made the violence far more realistic,
and didn't overdo the music. Those who can't handle too much, or too
realistic of violence won't like this movie.

Some might feel the dialogue makes the movie drag just a bit, but if
you like realistic filmmaking, they've made it feel as if you're
sitting in on actual conversations. The scenes and cuts are long but
are livened up with the fairly constant scummy-ness of the characters.
James Gandolfini seemed to prattle on a little too much but I suppose
that was the point.

The violence can be summed up as unsentimental; much of it can be
defined by the difficult achievement of not falling into played out
Hollywood clich√©s. There are no heros in this movie as the director
doesn't use cheap tricks, like voiceovers, disproportionate screen
time, or happy music to convince you that one criminal is worth rooting
for over the others. There is no glorification or demonization of
violence, as it is depicted without the influence of music, and the
audience can decide for themselves about what is being shown. There are
no Schwartzenegger-style shoot outs, as the violence is usually sudden
but brutal and loud. Every gunshot is closer to being as loud as real
life, so you get a little jolt with every shot like being at a gun
range.

The use of music is also played down and important in making both the
violence and dialogue distinct. There is some music which gives the
movie some energy, but overall far less than the average Hollywood
film. This adds an element of suspense as the music doesn't give away
what is about to happen in every scene (like a movie with ominous music
when something bad is about to happen, etc.). The lack of music also
allows the audience a semblance of neutrality in what they are
observing; characters are allowed to be likable without being good. 

This is the sort of movie you could expect if the hero was removed and
you only had the villains and thugs left over--it is far less boring.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film that looks outstanding. It has that feel of the best
seventies cinema. The acting similarly is outstanding but still, a few
things stop it from being the stone cold classic it could have been. 

The cracks started to show when Cogan(Pitt) has his first talk with
Mickey(Gandolfini). It's the latest in a long series of head to heads
that play out more like acting master-classes than anything relating to
the film. That scene effectively breaks the spell and reminds us that
we are watching "good quality acting" combined with "a good script".

The film seems to go off the rails after this. Any charm or involvement
is soon stopped by another showy scene from the director who seems more
concerned with showing off his film making skills than actually making
a good film.

The final thing that jars is Brad Pitt. He had the same effect on Fight
Club. Pitt is too big a star for a film like this. He simply doesn't
convince as the cynical cold blooded killer. Why would such a man spend
that much time on his physical appearance for instance?. A more earthy,
hard boiled actor could have made the character believable. 

Not a bad film but overbearingly condescending at the finale (which I
won't spoil here). The film that went before doesn't earn that pay off
and its impact isn't felt on the screen. Which makes the end deeply
unsatisfying. 

Shame really as with more editing and less egos involved, this could
have been so much better.
<|_=00=_|>
Brad Pitt and Andrew Dominik's fantastic Killing Them Softly has the
rigor and grace of the great American crime pictures of the 1970s. A
loose adaptation of George V Higgins' great 1974 crime novel Cogan's
Trade. A fulfilling elegant and stylish black comedy. The script,
acting, direction were all superbly done, and should be commended.
Although the film can be very pessimistic, it does have a message, one
that should resonate in the near future. The whole cast was extremely
effective and highly believable. However Brad Pitt is simply terrific,
and deserves much acclaim that could come to him. Just like The
Assassination of Jesse James, Pitt plays subtle, but yet powerful
sociopath and it ripples the film throughout. James Gandolfini
Gandolfini is excellent as a boozy, broken old assassin. Ray Liotta
offers a grotesque reprise of the type of manic gangster he played in
his younger years in Goodfellas. Richard Jenkins is solemn as ever as
the killer's contact, relaying back messages from the Mob and trying to
beat Cogan down on prices. All the men here are relentlessly sexist and
foul-mouthed.

Dominik shoots the action in a grimy shallow focus and his screenplay
is tough as steel and shot through with pessimistic, even black humor.
There is no mistaking the fact that Dominik loves his characters,
letting their dialogue shine uninterrupted. Although the The political
message is a little heavy-handed and a bit repetitive, Andrew Domink
crafts a memorable and highly thought-provoking crime film, with Brad
Pitt shows the world again, that he's a fantastic actor that always
surpasses the hype around him.
<|_=00=_|>
Yet another great film being given a bad name by "reviewers trying to
do us a favour" (really??? like you're a shepherd and we're all sheep
here???). If you're going to read a review, here's one that speaks in
all fairness and without trying to glorify it.

'Killing Them Softly' is a contemporary multi-narrative crime drama
that oversees what crime has become to the mafia since we've seen what
years of recession have done to America, post 9/11. It's a film you
have to settle into and to watch and listen carefully, yet it provides
us with storytelling style very similar to the likes of Quentin
Tarantino and classic Danny Boyle.

It also makes good use of some classic conventions and you may notice a
little bit of Mean Streets, Lock Stock & Two Smoking Barrels, Chopper,
Pulp Fiction, Trainspotting etc.

When ex-convict Frankie and his Australian heroin-addict friend Russell
are employed to hold up a mafia poker game in their rundown dead end
town, they get away with it, though causing the local economy to
collapse and putting mob boss Markie Trattman (Ray Liotta) in the
frame.

The dons send mob enforcer Jackie (Brad Pitt) over to deal with it and
to set an example, he methodically sets about cleaning up in due
fashion.

That is the plot, pure and simple, but aside from that, 'Killing Them
Softly' is more a film about the bleak, harsh reality of crime in the
modern day American towns that the government has all but abandoned and
it is therefore about the sheer dead-end desperation of a certain breed
of people.

Unemployment, recession, drug addiction, violence, desperation, failing
health, wilful self-destruction and the disgusting manner in which
people regard each other with - it all adds up to one great stark
reality. The only way that the government has succeeded in destroying
organised crime is by destroying its own country's economy. Desperate
people will do anything to survive knowing that, if they give up, they
are as good as dead. And that sets the tone for this movie from
beginning to end.

Not surprisingly in hindsight, this film has no real lead characters,
but universally supporting characters that serve the story until its
bitter ending where we are treated to a summary in words between two
characters. This helps to give a sense that nobody is of any real
importance to each other, which is true to the nature of most of its
characters.

If you like your crime movies real, you'll love this. I'm so surprised
at how seamless it is, and also how easy it is to watch despite how
well acted and intense it becomes. Dark, gritty, grimy, filthy, absurd,
depressing and yet bold with a few good laughs!
<|_=00=_|>
What a lot of the negative reviewers seem to have completely missed
about this movie is that it isn't actually a crime movie - instead it's
a metaphor for modern America.

That's why the film contains so many political speeches in its
background soundtrack - they're meant to be there to draw the link
between what is unfolding on the screen and what is happening in the
real America today.

This film is rich with different layers of irony; the most obvious of
which is the fact that the men being killed are being punished for
simply doing what their killers do themselves day in and day out -
commit crime and steal from others.

It seems to me that the mafia bosses are symbolic of the politicians
who blame the business sector, and then seek to punish them, for what
are actually failings of the system that they continue to prop up and
exploit for their own ends. And just consider the fact that after
killing several men for being thieves, these exact same mafia bosses
then try and rob Brad Pitt's character of what he is actually
financially entitled to from them.

The reason both Obama and Bush are heard at different times in the film
is because we are meant to realize that this problem is not exclusive
to either the left or the right, it is about what America, as a whole,
has allowed itself to become as a nation. And also to highlight the
fact that both left and right have allowed this problem to persist and
grow.

Brad Pitt's speech at the end of the film is really the essence of what
this film is about - a cynical examination of the death of the American
dream and American idealism.

I think that in time this film will come to be more highly regarded as
a clever piece of commentary on present day America - and when it is
viewed in that light (rather than as a gangster film) it makes much
more sense to the viewer.
<|_=00=_|>
Killing Them Softly will go down as the movie that killed critics
opinions for me. Critics out there praised this movie up the butt and I
was a fool enough to listen to them and waste my money. You could have
told this movies plot in thirty minutes if you scraped away all of the
unnecessary and irrelevant plot threads, like a certain character
whining about their wife for at least 20 minutes of screen time. There
are all of these attempts at being artsy and different with editing and
cinematography choices but it always distracts from what little story
is there. It tries to pretend to be smart by shoving down the elections
and the state of America down our throats for a cheap social
commentary. Really, this is a stupid movie trying to disguise itself as
a smart one. 

I kept checking the time and considering walking out but thought that
maybe there would be at least one surprise from this boringly straight
forward story. Instead there is an incredibly unsatisfying and abrupt
conclusion and you're left sitting for a moment, wondering if critics
are getting paid off for their praise. Minus a good cast and some
pretty visuals that were totally unnecessary and self indulgent, this
has little going for it.
<|_=00=_|>
I left the cinema three quarters the way through this film.....never
had to do that before. It dragged on and on and on. The endless dialog
that had nothing to do with the film was infuriating to say the least.
At one point James Gandolfini talks about getting a divorce from his
wife for a good ten minutes which is completely pointless and has no
relevance to the story line at all. This is just one example of a
constant series of ridiculous conversations that the film is riddled
with. Throughout the film they seem to have some sort of political
undercurrent in the background between George Bush and Barack O Bama
which I couldn't get my head around. Whether Brad Pitt was trying to
get across his political views or what was going on is anyone's guess.
I have no problem with the acting in this film....what I can't
understand is why Prad Pitt and Ray Liotta (both accomplished and
celebrated actors) agreed to do this film. Please save your money and
time and don't go!
<|_=00=_|>
If you are sick of generic clich√©d action film making, you will enjoy
this unique gem. An actors movie. The superb cast subtly weave a bleak
and violent morality tale. Everyone is given beautiful little
soliloquies. This drew me into each character, even though they are all
without exception unpleasant, I still was able to empathize with them.
It was like a modern Shakespeare with the regular TV news and political
speechifying in the background as a running commentary on the stories
progress. The editing was so good I never noticed it. Thank you to
everyone who had a hand in this classic. It is a dark movie and I can
imagine its subtle complexities being lost on the great unwashed and
washed.
