
My wife and I saw this film without having any idea of what it is a
about. All we knew was some guy's father died and he went through a
life decision change. For all we knew that meant he could have become
gay (he didn't, and it had nothing to do with that).

This is an adult family film. It's PG-13 rating is not for nudity,
swearing, or violence. It is rated that because it is a mature look at
dysfunctional family problems. So while little of that is shown, they
are referred to through the dialog, thus making it a mature film for
teens and up.

From the opening credits of Dreamworks, the artistry of the film was
evident. Instead of the usual music for the kid fishing from the moon,
we hear conversations in a recording studio. In our opinion, every
actor and actress gave outstanding performances. While the topic could
have had a heavy handed approach, it did not. It was deftly edited and
paced.

In summation, this movie was art because the content was all heart. I
have deliberately avoided talking about specifics because I want all
viewers to be as surprised as we were in the viewing. I give it a ten,
and intend to watch it again.
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be under everyone's radar and that's a true shame. I can't
recommend it enough if you're looking for a truly moving film about
fractured families and fractured souls.

I was completely blown away by this movie and by every single
performance. If I were an Academy member and I saw this film I would
immediately place the names Chris Pine, Elizabeth Banks and Michelle
Pfeiffer at the very top of my Oscar nominations lists. Honestly,
everyone is just that good in these roles especially Banks. Hers is the
best performance I've seen this year bar none. The movie itself is so
wonderfully written and packs true emotional resonance. The plot may
sound cliché but nothing is handled in a predictable or unreal fashion.
Secrets are revealed and it sheds new life on family and the meaning of
love. To paraphrase: what seems important now really isn't and what's
may seem not important now really is there's a lot to digest about
this film. One thing's for sure, if you "lean in to it" and give this
movie your time and undivided attention you will not be sorry that you
saw it.
<|_=00=_|>
You know, it's always good to see a non-action film during the summer
movie season every once in a while; even if it has an actual message to
it.

Going into People Like Us, I was rather excited. I had a feeling that
this would turn out to be a good drama. Maybe it won't be award-worthy
or anything, just good as like a regular drama with a good message.
After the seeing the movie, I came out feeling touched by it. People
Like Us was such a good movie.

STORY: People Like Us has a very simple plot. After his father passed
away, Sam, a salesman (Chris Pine) has to deliver $150,000  which was
left behind by his father  to Frankie (Elizabeth Banks), a sister whom
he never knew about. As the relationship develops, Sam tries to
re-examine his own life choices.

MY THOUGHTS: The writing/dialogue in People Like Us is believable and
very good; the music score is beautiful and sets the emotional tone
well; the ending to it is so touching and downright perfect that it
made me left the theater with emotion. This movie does a great job
talking about the loss of a loved one and trying to re-think choices in
life.

The only problem I had with People Like Us was that the movie started
off a bit slow, but then it gets better as it goes on.

THE ACTING: Chris Pine does an excellent job playing Sam, a guy whose
father had passed away, and wants to re-think his own choices in life.
Elizabeth Banks does great playing Frankie, a sister that Sam never
knew he had. The ever-so gorgeous Olivia Wilde had a good supporting
role as Sam's girlfriend. Michelle Pfeiffer is fantastic as the mother.
The kid is fantastic as well.

IN CONCLUSION: Although slow at times, People Like Us is such a good
drama featuring great performances, good dialogue, and an ending that
made me feel touched.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Most of us like me have all found out about family secrets in our life,
and when they are revealed many years later they surprise us and it
does impact and affect our lives. It's so true everyone has skeleton's
in their closets. And this touching and heart felt film "People Like
Us" relates to all of those issues. It proves that in life a family
always have life altering choices to make.

The story which was inspired by true events has Sam(Chris Pine)a grown
salesman who one day with his love Hannah(Olivia Wilde)gets a call in
New York and the news is bad his record producer dad who he hasn't seen
in years has just passed away on the west coast in L.A. Also Sam's
mother Lillian(Michelle Pfeiffer)has fallen ill with a heart condition,
so he takes a trip to California to have his life turned upside down.

Soon Sam will have revealed that his father had a hidden past life this
was in the form of another sibling it's a half sister in Frankie(the
sexy Elizabeth Banks). And Frankie who's an outspoken provocative sexy
single mother has her hands full raising little one son Josh(Michael
Hall). Along the way this triangle comes a bonding of friendship and
love even though at times it's a struggle it's life changing for all as
it's a money change for Frankie and Josh as this sexy lady can finally
leave bar tending and get a good fresh path to a better life. And Sam
has dropped everything after the connection so he can start anew with
his true love Hannah.

Overall good film of finding out hidden special secrets, it proves love
last with family as a new connection that was once secret starts a
better life for all. And that's special and important because a loving
family connection is ever lasting love.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed seeing this latest movie with Chris Pine. The acting
is great, the storyline is well written with adequate character
development to let you get emotionally invested. Michelle Pfeiffer
gives the level of performance you typically expect from Diane Keaton
with empathy and sincerity. Chris Pine as Sam shows he's much more than
just a pretty face, but the true scene stealer is Michael Hall
D'Addario who plays Josh, the bad-boy son of Elizabeth Banks'
character, Frankie. I really enjoyed that it isn't your typical
romantic comedy between a man and woman who end up either together or
not. Frankie and Sam being sister and brother as the primary love
interests give it a very interesting twist but there's also the
mother-son sub-plot as well as Sam and Hannah, played by Olivia Wilde.
We clapped when the credits rolled, which is rare for a romantic comedy
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
KIDS FIRST! Film Critic, 15-year-old Raven Devanney shares her review
below: 

Video review available here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rzovjcl38xw

People like us is a heartfelt drama about a man who's life takes a turn
for the worst and in unsuspecting events leads him to a sister he never
knew he had. This film was exceptional. It stars Elizabeth Banks, Chris
Pine and Michelle Pfeiffer. People like us made me laugh, cry and feel
every emotion in between. The visuals in this film were great and the
acting was superb. My favorite character was Frankie played by
Elizabeth Banks because her performance was so solid and she definitely
carried the comedy of this film as well as the heavier emotions. My
favorite part of this film is when Sam played by Chris Pine is getting
to know Frankie and her young son because I enjoyed watching their bond
grow.

It really bothered me that Sam wouldn't tell Frankie who he was until
the end of the film because it just complicated their lives, but it
gave the film a much needed twist. I recommend this film for ages 13
and up because of adult content and younger children may have a more
difficult time fallowing along with the plot. Overall I give People
like us 4 out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Michelle Pfieffer and Elizabeth Banks both give A+ performances in this
movie and they both deserve to be remembered at Oscar time. It is a joy
watching these two outstanding thespians at work. It is amazing the
intensity and depth they bring to their performances. They bring these
tortured characters to life and you feel their pain. When I was getting
ready to write this review, my first instinct was to say that there
wasn't a really likable character in the film. That instinct was wrong.
Its not that the characters aren't likable, its just that they are
flawed and in deep emotional pain because one man didn't do his job as
a responsible husband and father and the pain he caused lives after his
death. This is a very dark film, very depressing, gritty and true to
life. No "Brady Bunch" happy endings here folks. Surprisingly, I think
it makes it a better movie. The only major beef I have with this film
is the character of the boy Josh. He is without a doubt the most
appalling child character since Wesley on Mister Belvedere. I kept
wanting one of the adults to give him a good smack in his little fresh,
dirty mouth. I always hate it in movies when they show smart aleck kids
who talk to adults more strongly then real life kids would dare do!
<|_=00=_|>
"People Like Us" has a fine cast, a fairly stimulating (yet safe) plot,
and some heartfelt life lessons thrown in for good measure. The next
paragraph contains a gentle spoiler about this films' themes. 

A man (Pine) receives some bad news about his family. He needs to do
the right thing, grow up, and bust through the defenses he has spent
years hiding under. As he makes a reunion of sorts with family members,
the plot unfolds. Each character deals with their own personal set of
challenges.

I'll confess that I had hesitations about the casting. Pine is cute
as-a-button, and I tend to be drawn to actors who are a bit rough
around the edges. But I was wrong to doubt his abilities. He layered
his role with some interesting nuances. His interactions with the
Elizabeth Banks character were entertaining and fairly genuine. The
young actor Michael Hall D'Addario was absolutely wonderful. Banks and
Pfeiffer each turned in very sturdy performances. Wilde was also
effective, but she needed more screen time.

Kudos to the director Alex Kurtzman for his reasonably light touch. It
seems like he allowed the actors a long leash in developing their
characterizations. This is no easy task, because Kurtzman also co-wrote
the script.

The musical score had some strong moments, particularly when they
highlighted classic rock tunes from decades ago. There were periodic
sentimental tunes, which seemed a bit manipulative. And there was a
beach scene which was a bit deflated, because it was so typically
pretty. I wish this film would have taken more risks, and navigated
through an even murkier emotional landscape. 

At the end of the day, I would recommend this, and I look forward to
seeing more films from Kurtzman. If you're still with me at this point,
I beg your pardon. Uh, bartender... I'll have an extra dry martini with
2 olives, please.
<|_=00=_|>
Nice to see Elizabeth Banks can recover from disaster unfunny What to
expect, When your expecting. And Chris Pine from the cinematic
blandness that is This Means War.

Sam(Chris Pine) a smooth talking salesman, who's last deal falls flat,
then his girlfriend gives him the news that his father had died, this
has a mixed reaction for Sam, cause he and his father have never gotten
along. Sam goes to funeral, and sees his mother. Then meets with with
lawyer, who gives a kit of 15 thousand dollars, but then sees a note
that tells him to give it too Frankie(Elizabeth Banks)a recovering
alcholic, and a single mother, and a waitress, trying to make ends
meat. But discovers she is his half sister. How will this play out in
the end? 

Chris Pine and Elizabeth Banks are beyond terrific with there
performances, so was Olivia Wilde, not just playing the throw away love
interest. Michelle Pfeiffer is also great as Pines mother. A well acted
drama.
<|_=00=_|>
Now this is a movie that I thoroughly enjoyed watching. Movies like
these proves that you don't need crude and obnoxious jokes with nudity
and swearing for it to be good. This is an adult movie that approaches
things in a touching and yet mature manner. The story in this is about
Sam(Chris Pine) getting $150,000 dollars in cash after his fathers
death who he loathed. But in his will he wants that money to go to
Frankie(Elizabeth Banks) who is his half-sister that he didn't know
about until he got his father's will. So he decides to go stalking
Frankie and her son and soon chemistry starts to form between them, I
guess it's awkward chemistry. Now Sam already has a girlfriend played
by Olivia Wilde but the chemistry between Sam and Frankie is just so
well written in this to the point I wanted to see more of it. And the
fact that they are half-sibling makes things awkward and yet
interesting to watch. Elizabeth Banks is still very hot and attractive,
random but wanted to throw that in. This movie is mostly about
understanding one another since everyone comes from different
background no matter how close you are with them. This is a well
written emotional drama that maybe predictable in some cases but it's
well worth the watch for sure.

8.5/10
