
My rating: 88/100

I ended up seeing this movie at the Toronto film fest in a rather
circuitous way but I'm awfully glad I did.

Nary a car chase nor explosion, but instead a quiet and thoughtful
film. It touches on relationships, death, siblings, betrayal,
unrequited love, honesty, fears, and forgiveness and does so in a very
believable and refreshing way.

Most of the movie takes place at a secluded rustic waterfront cottage,
a family cabin that Iris (Emily Blunt) has suggested her 'bestie', Jay
(Mark Duplass) visit to clear his head; he's still emotionally stuck at
the one year anniversary of his brother's death. 

The secluded locale - without phones, computers and the usually daily
distractions - is the conduit which allows the abundance of emotions
and introspective feelings bubble up and expose themselves to a trio of
characters connected in various and interesting ways.

These three individuals are both frustrating with their flaws, yet
endearing with their fragility and weaknesses. How easy it is to
identify with all of them!  which can perhaps be attributed to the
impromptu conversation Director Lynn Shelton nurtured and encouraged
from the mere 70 page script. She confessed that 75% of the dialogue
was improvised allowing a unique honesty to develop within each
character, thanks to a stellar cast.

I'm thankful Shelton stuck around Toronto for this third screening 
she's originally from Seattle which is where this was filmed - and was
more than willing to open up to the audience at a post Q&A where we
heard her speak passionately and reflectively about the 12 day shoot
(wow!) with almost no funding and how she lucked in to Emily Blunt
coming on board (thanks to a shared agent) who was keen on the
challenge and experience. Also it was nice to hear that during the
festival the film had found distribution through IFC, and that cast and
crew would now be compensated for this wonderful collaboration.

This film's a winner to me. I hope you have an opportunity to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Lynn Shelton's 'Your Sister's Sister' opened the 2012 Glasgow Film
Festival and received a near-rapturous response. This is a keenly
observed tale of individuals as complex and frail as you, me and
everyone we know...

Iris commemorates the passing of her partner Tom at a gathering of
Tom's friends, where Jack, her best friend, offers up a less than
flattering eulogy. Jack, coincidentally Tom's sibling, is packed off to
a remote island lodge to get his head together, where he encounters
Iris's sister, Hannah. Complications ensue - by the bucket-load.

Shelton took time to explain her process in the Q&A at the Glasgow Film
Theatre screening. The cast improvised to a certain extent, but spent a
vast amount of time creating back-stories for their characters. That
preparation pays off in naturalistic exchanges, interruptions and
repairs, gestures and looks that remonstrate, encourage or deter in a
convincingly authentic manner. The film is very, very funny, and then
genuinely touching and fraught. Throw in an ending you will either love
(like me) or loathe, and you have a mature, entertaining film whose
execution and polish defies the 12-day shooting period.

Wonderful performances from Emily Blunt, Rosemarie DeWitt and Mark
Duplass as the conflicted trio. Blunt gets to explore more range here
than My Summer of Love or anything else on her CV, and shows a growing
maturity. The film is involving from the very first frame and holds
your attention throughout. Shelton has found a refreshing formula.
Bigger budgets and less challenging schedules may follow, but one hopes
the stringent process remains.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the first time I have ever felt so strongly about a movie to
write a review. I watched it on an airplane yesterday and cannot stop
thinking about the characters. I can't get over how real they were and
how great the acting was. I laughed and cried and wanted to be friends
with them. The end kills me though! I need a sequel!! Or I've even kept
imagining a television series. I would LOVE to be able to continue
watching these characters and see their lives play out. When I saw the
preview, I thought, hmm this should be interesting with just 3 people
in the movie pretty much the whole time, but I seriously loved it and
thought it was brilliant. I didn't want it to end!
<|_=00=_|>
A dialogue heavy film, which I am often very fond of and this is no
exception. Basically a three- hander with a trio of sublime and
believable performances from Mark Duplass, the always excellent Emily
Blunt and the seriously under rated and forever sister (United States
of Tara, Rachel's Getting Married) Rosemarie DeWitt. They simply
inhabit these characters.

A film told with great honesty and natural flair, with a lot of the
dialogue being apparently improvised, I was entertained and intrigued
from beginning to end. I laughed out loud on a number of occasions at
the spoken wit and the extreme awkwardness of some of the scenes. These
are all flawed people, but they are all relatable and likable.

It does fall into a little bit of predictability and cliché as it moves
on through the story and I surprisingly had no issue with one aspect
that angers many a gay woman, as to me it made sense for the character. 

It was a journey I very much enjoyed and it felt quite different from
your average rom-com.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a real treat to watch, i saw it on a rainy afternoon,
alone, at my local cinema, it was pretty quiet, but I must say I think
it added to my enjoyment, watching it alone almost made me feel as
though I was a fly on the wall in this little cottage with three others
and all the goings on. The story is rather sweet, not much really big
happens, it's a bit of a slow burner but sometimes that's what you
need, but in saying that it is actually a rather complicated story,
it's just written and directed quite simply so it's easy and a pleasure
to watch. Mark Duplass is not an actor I have seen before, but he has a
nice presence on screen, Emily Blunt is her usual exceptional self, but
it's Rosemarie Dewitt who steals the show I think, she has plenty of
great scenes and she handles her difficult and really not that likable
character very well, most of the things I've seen her in she has been
good, she seems like a very natural actress, I do hope that she gets a
little more recognition and she is cast in more well known films.

I was surprised to find out that a lot of the film was improvised, the
story seemed like it would have been one where things were planned out,
but then at the same time I guess it is a film which would quite easily
be improvised, and knowing that makes the actors performances even
better, it's a crime films like this go somewhat unnoticed, because in
my opinion I think Dewitt delivers an award worthy performance, but
sometimes it's a movie being small and unknown which makes it special.

It's funny, it's touching, it's dramatic, it's everything an indie film
lover would enjoy in a movie, I really do highly recommend you catch
this movie while you can, it's a real charmer.

I hope you guys enjoy it. :)
<|_=00=_|>
Smart film. Smart dialog. Smart characters. No stereotypes. Not a
cliché-driven romantic comedy, which obviously put off some of those
who reacted negatively.

From start to finish, the roles and situations develop in unpredictable
ways that never seem false. There must have been a lot of improvisation
go into the script, because the conversations never sound false, and
the characters all act and react in ways that could not be more
natural.

It is funny without being silly, and it is sad at times in ways that
measure the depth of the relationships. Great stuff!
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this movie. I've never written a review before, but
had to for this one. Filmed in 12 days? Unbelievably well done. The
interaction of the three main characters was s-o...r-e-a-l. Emily Blunt
(love her accent), Rosemarie Dewitt and Mark Duplass effortlessly
became three characters who could be anyone you know in your own town.
The chemistry of their different relationships with each other was
fresh and flawless, especially as they evolved. The comedic moments
were well delivered, and the pulling-at-the-heartstrings moments, very
real. The rustic cottage and waterfront location in Seattle where most
of the movie took place was just beautiful. From Filming to Sound, my
hat is off to Lynn Shelton the Writer and Director, and the entire cast
and crew. I will enjoy watching this again. Thank you!
<|_=00=_|>
The soapy plot provides what may have been intended to be drama, but
was instead a contrivance. For almost every scene, you could feel the
actors trying to internalize the situation and improvise, almost as if
they had read the description of that scene only that morning and were
trying to assimilate their characters into it instead of the other way
around. The movie kind of has that feel of being written as it is shot,
and though this can sometimes cause an actor to grow into their part
right before our eyes (and therefore project character growth), it
instead is put together like a series of scenes in which these static
characters find themselves. There is nothing about the characters that
we find out in the course of this movie that we couldn't have guessed
right from the beginning. That is, despite the intention of mining
character-study type drama from what should be a character-driven
dramatic situation, it becomes instead what feels like a bullet-point
presentation on the character's reactions to it.

The drinking scene is wonderful, and also the scene of the three of
them discussing Iris's conquests. The improvised dialogue absolutely
works in these situations, and guides the character portraits in
interesting directions. Unexplored and ultimately useless directions,
but directions nonetheless. The scenic montage at the end of the movie
is nicely done for the situation it portrays, not the least reason
because there is very little of the absurdly inauthentic dialogue that
plagues the rest of the movie. 

Emily Blunt is good as a young widow, but it's not the visceral type of
performance you might expect from a movie like this where deep primal
feelings are supposedly explored and vented. The tone is oddly light
and airy, and the actors may have picked up on that, or they may have
caused it. Mark Duplass is particularly reluctant to allow his
character to feel more than one thing at once, and it's difficult to
tell if it's because the overall tone of the movie veers into melodrama
or because he just doesn't believe in his character enough to give him
any depth.

Don't get me wrong, this is a very pleasant movie to watch. Blunt is
pretty, Duplass has some amusing moments, and DeWitt has a very
watchable awkwardly nihilistic manner about her. Usually, with aspects
like these, combined with beautiful scenery, a movie isn't tough to get
through. But don't expect much else.

--- Spoiler Alert --- As an example of the superficiality of the tone,
the only hint of the internal conflict in Iris upon confessing that
she's in love with her dead husband's brother is when she says, "Is
that weird?" This is a stupendously unsatisfactory line that is
delivered as if she were saying she prefers kale over cabbage. From the
plot to this point, we are led to believe that there should be other
unexpressed conflicted feelings underneath, but there apparently
aren't. And because we don't believe and aren't led to understand what
is driving her to this conclusion, we can't really buy any of it.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film for two reasons. One being Emily Blunt, she is
great in every role she plays. And two because it had that feel good
look to it. I was pleasantly surprised with how touching this movie can
be. What helps is the incredible chemistry between the actors. The 90
minutes really fly by. I could have watched another few hours of the
three leads just chatting. Its also not your typical romantic story
which is a nice change up. What I also really enjoyed was it humanized
each character. They all have major flaws in which it makes it
difficult to root for any of them at certain points. The actors did
such a phenomenal job helping us invest our emotion into each of the
relationships that are presented. Its not predictable and not typical.
This is also my first exposure to Lynn Shelton. I am now looking
forward to checking out her other works as well. Overall surprisingly
sweet and heartwarming movie. 9.2/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Your Sister's Sister" is an indie romantic dramedy. One that tries to
say so much with so little; "little" in terms of story and setting.
It's a dialogue driven film about relationships. Jack (Mark Duplass) is
depressed, mourning the loss of his brother. His friend Iris (Emily
Blunt) sends him up to her father's cottage for some alone time and
beautiful scenery.

Beautiful scenery there was plenty of; but not so much alone time.
Unbeknownst to either of them, Iris's sister, Hannah (Rosemary Dewitt),
was also retreating to their father's cottage for some alone time in
the wake of an upsetting break-up. Two lonely people and an entire
bottle of tequila lead to one inevitable place. In the morning, Iris
arrives.

Duplass is fairly adept at comedy so he was able to navigate his way
around two attractive sisters with a few well-earned laughs. There are
more laughs during the description of Iris's boyfriends (each wears
skinny jeans, skinnier than the next). As mentioned, this is a dialogue
driven film which makes it or breaks it. For the most part it does the
job and effectively introduces us to the three characters, but the
common complaint that the dialogue is pretentious is certainly
accurate.

The characters are real enough, if not a bit extreme in their ways,
that likability isn't a huge factor. Although, Emily Blunt's character
does get preachy when things don't go her way. She, and the audience,
are thrown for a loop when a twist is introduced half-way through the
film. At first I was relieved that the film was going to be about
something other than just the relationships of these three people.

But ultimately "Your Sister's Sister" is just about the sister's
relationship and their relationship with Jack. An ambiguous ending can
certainly be welcome and interesting, but if you don't quite care
enough about the relationships to begin with then the ending arrives
just a beat too early.
