
The Kill List is totally brilliant - and absolute rubbish. More
specifically, the first 75% of the movie is fantastic - sharply
written, wonderfully acted, supremely directed, and filled with tension
and realism.

And then it all goes wrong.

I'd heard a few reviews of this film before choosing to see it, and it
irks me that not one of them revealed that the last quarter of The Kill
List is so divorced from the first that it's like watching a different
film altogether. It reminded me of Charlie Kaufman's brilliant
Adaptation, where the lead character's idiot brother suddenly steps in
to finish the movie. Hilarious in that case - mystifying in this. 

Ben Wheatley and Amy Jump start by crafting a stunning examination of
the family life of a suburban hit-man that makes The Sopranos look
glitzy. Neil Maskell is unnerving as Jay, whose long hiatus from 'work'
has led to constant fighting with his wife. Their son witnesses the
discord, and the tension and humanity is palpable.

Then Jay is drawn back into doing a well-paid job by his old crony,
Gal, and the plot starts to thicken. Gradually the low-key family
realism gives way to a realism of a far nastier kind, coupled with
sudden moments of real mystery and total surprise. 

Wheatley layers the non-action with skill, and really knows how to
ratchet up the intrigue. The three main characters are all very good,
and even the smaller roles of the son and girlfriend are well played
and brilliantly written. You get the feeling you are watching something
very special unfold on screen, with no indication of how it will all be
resolved. I am a hardened end-guesser and am often right, but with this
movie I had NO IDEA where it was going, which is exciting and rare. 

However, just as I was preparing for a stunning denouement with all the
seemingly-impossible ends tied up, The Kill List turned an ankle and
tripped into a ditch full of dung. 

O. M. G. 

I'm not into writing spoilers - even when the filmmakers have done more
spoiling than I ever could in this case. Suffice to say that 'and then
he woke up and it was all a dream' would have been a more credible
ending, and would at least have made sense of SOME of the set up,
instead of none of it at all. 

If there was ever a progression of narrative here, it is lying
somewhere on a cutting room floor, crying its eyes out at the wasted
opportunity. 

When the credits came up, there was a stunned silence in the packed
cinema and someone turned to his mate and said:'That's the last time
YOU choose the effing film'. Judging by the snorts of sympathetic
laughter it caused, I'd say it was the best review I'd heard of The
Kill List.

I've never been so disappointed by a film that promised so much.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been a while since I've seen a film that both attracted and
repulsed me. "Kill List" has managed to do just that.

It's a difficult film to describe. Suffice it to say, it's been tagged
a horror film and that the "similar" films referenced in other reviews
give too much away. Let me just attempt to give you some idea of what
you might experience if you choose to take a chance and seek out this
film.

Before I begin, it must be said that this is a British film, and some
of the accents are thicker than the Great Grimpen Mire. Sit back, and
let your ears adjust.

The first third of the film might give you the impression it's a family
drama. It isn't.

The second third of the film might give you the impression that it's a
crime drama. It isn't.

Then comes the final third. It will make you question everything you've
seen up to that point and either infuriate you or cause you to manually
lift your jaw off the sticky theatre floor. It's out there. Waaaay out
there.

The film does a terrific job of building a mood and layering suspense
with discomfort. It is an incredibly violent film, graphic in a way I
haven't seen since Gasper Noes' "Irreversible." The violence is
intrinsic to the film and to its protagonist, but that doesn't make it
any easier to watch.

This film bothered me, and except for the extreme violence, I can't
really explain why. It left me feeling uneasy and uncomfortable - but I
couldn't stop watching. I have so many questions about what I just
watched that I will probably watch it again  and I will probably still
be bothered.

When's the last time you said that about a film that wasn't a
documentary?

www.worstshowontheweb.com
<|_=00=_|>
After watching this film I was more angry than disappointed after
having high expectations from reading a few reviews.

Presenting us with not a single character you can empathise with is not
the film's biggest crime. About two thirds of the way through (mostly
spent bored and uninvolved) I could feel it coming. I knew the
writer(s) had posed so many questions that there was no way they could
pull off an ending that gave any insight into what went before - the
result? A massive feeling of complete frustration which I know the
majority of the audience I saw the film with shared - several even
laughed when the 'KILL LIST' title card came up at the end. When you
don't get any reveal you've pretty much wasted our time for an hour and
a half - thanks a lot - and thanks a lot to the critics who think stuff
like this is clever and original when in fact it's just lazy -
answering questions will always take more skill than just asking them.

Overall this is a nasty little travesty of a film, the only positive is
that only £0.5m was wasted making it.
<|_=00=_|>
I caught Kill List at SxSW and was pretty disappointed.

There were a number of things I did like about it. The acting was all
really strong, and the best moments came when the director just took a
step back and let the actors perform. The director also did a great job
building tension throughout.

The thing most people will be talking about is the crazy left turn the
story takes in the 3rd Act. (Spoiler Alert!) After close to 2 hours of
a straightforward hit man movie, it suddenly becomes a bizarre occult
horror flick. It's a huge departure from everything that's come before
it.

My issue with it isn't that this departure makes it feel like two
completely different movies (which it does). My issue is that it
doesn't do either of those movies very well. The hit man plot is as
stale as it gets: Guys heading into 'one last job' before hanging it up
for good. They even use the Tarantino-esque title cards between scenes,
which I thought went out of style in '98. The only surprises come from
how gory some of the violence gets.

I was completely bored and disengaged by about halfway through, so when
these two stumble into a witchy sabbath I was actually pretty excited
for the change of tone. Sadly, the horror part is a big letdown too.
The filmmakers don't manage to build any real suspense, and the big
SURPRISE at the end lacks any emotional resonance since we don't care
about anyone involved anyway. They pulled off a similar twist in A
Serbian Film with a much more powerful result.
<|_=00=_|>
Lodging itself eventually in the creepy-people-doing-creepy-things
tradition of religious/occult horror films like The Wicker Man and
Rosemary's Baby, director Ben Wheatley's hit-man horror flick Kill List
comes on, initially, like a bad-boy bit of British Social realism.

It's rough around the edges, shaggy and idiosyncratically edited, with
dialogue so unpolished and authentic-seeming that it's occasionally
hard to decipher. It's filled with a handful of legitimately great
performances by actors allowed to work improvisationally, seemingly,
lending the first half of the film an incredibly charming
unpredictability, a low-key volatility that had me bouncing back and
forth between moments of disturbing darkness and happy familial
pleasantries. Then it gets really crazy.

Jay and Gal are ex-army, estranged friends and partners in crime. Eight
months after a disastrous (and mysterious) gig in Kiev, Jay's home life
is disintegrating, and after a raucous dinner party with his ex-partner
and his creepy new girlfriend he agrees to get back in the saddle and
take a job. They're given a list - three targets - and soon they're
settling back into a charmingly macabre groove, carousing "salesmen" on
the road from town to town and target to target. But after an
inadvertent discovery during a routine bit of hit-man work derails
their plans, the pair realize they may be part of something much bigger
- and much darker - than a back-room murder-for-hire.

Kill List a stunning piece of very smart genre filmmaking. Wheatley
not-so-gently inserts chunks of spooky, disturbing horror into what's
already a charmingly dark kitchen sink drama. It's this transition -
that either a social realist framework can be twisted into a framework
supporting high horror or that a horror film can work filled with
improvisational dialogue and broody bits of working-class British
anxiety - that makes the film such an immense, jarring pleasure.

Will it work for horror fans used to slick, post-'80s supernatural
spookery? Will Ken Loach fans do with a little blood and forest horror?
Who knows. For fans of both, it's a stunning - literally - hybrid,
something completely unexpected, a real discovery. Kill List is a
brilliant idea, brilliantly well executed.
<|_=00=_|>
Like everyone else watching this film, I had heard lots of good things
about it, but at the same time I had heard that it was fairly full on
and that Kermode made reference to a colleague feeling so overwhelmed
by it that they thought they may have to go outside for a bit. Despite
this I decided to watch it, not particular sure of what I was starting
to watch. The film opens as a domestic drama with a dinner party full
of tension and simmering emotions. A simple cut-away to the bathroom
sees one of their guests carving a symbol on the back of their bathroom
mirror  no explanation for this at this point, but it is only the
start of things turning weird as the two men are hit men and head out
on a simple job to do three kills.

It is hard to describe this film without spoilers  so I won't.
Basically what follows is a narrative similar to The Wicker Man, where
a "normal" guy doing a job finds out that he has been manipulated by a
cult into one of their rituals but by the time he finds out he is too
late. Like the Wicker Man, this is confirmed by the ritual taking
horrific form at the end of the film. Except that it isn't that well
explained, so you will need to go with it to a point and, when that
still leaves you with questions, turn to the internet for help!
Whatever happened in the previous job seems to have made the cult (who
worship money, death and violence) notice Jay and mark him for the role
of their leader or an anti-Christ. The "kills" they have him do are
part of the ritual  right up to the last two. It is a very solid plot
and because it unfolds so quickly, it will have you thinking over it
for some time as you will be overtaken by it when you first watch.

The plot isn't the thing for me though  what makes it work so well is
that the entire film is imbued with this sense of foreboding and
lurking horror. OK you have some very brutal violence (I closed my eyes
if honest) but this really uncomfortable sense of uncertainty is in
everything from the friend's interactions to a dinner party, everything
has simmering resentment and violence just below the surface; Jay may
be sent over the edge by violent pornography (we assume) but you always
feel like if it wasn't that it would have been something else. It is
directed excellently, with this atmosphere constantly in mind  I
watched it at home but I can imagine on the big screen in a dark room
it must have worked even better. The cast are great and the dinner
party is evidence to how natural and real they feel. Maskell is
convincing but so is Buring. Smiley is a surprise in support (he will
always be the bike messenger from Spaced to me) as he is really well
pitched and controlled.

Kill List isn't as perfect as the critics all said, but it is no doubt
an experience of a film with a solid plot and plenty to reflect on when
the film violently and suddenly announces that it is finished and
you'll need to put it together on your own time. Constantly in your
face and constantly feeling oppressive, the film is weirder by the
minute, horrifically violent in sporadic bursts, but overall it works
in the way The Wicker Man worked. Ignore the hype (or you'll expect too
much) and you'll find a really strong British horror movie that creeps
under your skin long after it finishes.
<|_=00=_|>
I felt compelled to write this review after reading the previous review
on here. I fail to see how anyone with a true love for film, especially
for the horror genre could possibly say this had a "ham fisted"
approach. The largely improvised dialogue is such a pleasure to behold
and lends the film an authentic stiflingly creepy mood. Much has been
said about the director successfully cross pollinating two genres
seamlessly and I concur that this is the effect the film has. Not only
will fans of the horror genre find in this film a true cult classic,
but it's bleak and improvised nature is very reminiscent of a Ken
Loach-esque approach. The pace of the film escalates tirelessly
throughout and towards the end of the film certain scenes are so
claustrophobic I can honestly say this is the first "horror" film to
have genuinely left me feeling unsettled & scared in many years. This
film leaves the viewer, shocked and breathless by it's end, and I for
one recommend it highly! Hopefully this will have redressed the balance
for this film here after the stunning ignorance of the last simple
minded review.
<|_=00=_|>
To me, this is an absolute gem. Watched it on Netflix, just because I
had nothing better to do. I didn't know anything about this beforehand
- and that's the way this is meant to be watched. I was captivated,
baffled, horrified and never did I guess what is going to happen next,
not once. There are more or less subtle hints throughout the movie that
not only shed some light on the bizarre ending but also keep building
that disturbing mood that grows stronger and stronger as the movie
progresses.

Why this is a hard film, for many, to watch:

- It is extremely violent. This is not gore for gore's sake, this is
brutal, dark and realistic violence that adds to the disturbing mood
this movie sets. This is not enjoyable violence, this is gripping and
shocking violence.

- It gradually changes its tone from a crime story to something
surreal, disturbing and mysterious. I loved that, the movie surprised
me. The tonal shift won't please everyone.

- The final act is bizarre and certainly does not clearly explain
itself. While I was shocked and wanted to have more answers, I really
thought that if a movie needs to have an ambiguous ending, this is the
way you do it. There are hints along the way, but nothing is too clear
or spoon-fed. For many, the ending is a dealbreaker or seals the deal.
I loved this movie already before the final act, but there's no denying
how powerful the ending is. Also, I'd like to say that there's so much
quality in this movie that I really don't think the somewhat open
ending is a product of lazy writing. I think it's the product of
careful, genuinely good filmmaking. 

The acting is phenomenal. Damn you Brits, you really sometimes surprise
me. The characters feel like real people. Handling of music,
cinematography, editing...you really can see how well this movie is
crafted, seems like nothing is rushed or forced and many things are
definitely missed on the first viewing. This might look like a cheap,
unambitious film at first, but I really think it's quite the opposite.
This is, in my mind, an intelligent film. Not a slasher, but an
intelligent, shocking story.

This is a hard movie. Hard to watch because of the brutality, hard to
totally comprehend because of the ambiguity. But it got me. I was
thrilled all the way to the end. Possibly the most disturbing movie
I've seen in years, and I've seen a lot of questionable stuff. I don't
remember having such an emotional response to a movie for a long, long
time. I don't know if I'm going to see it again, because it really
disturbed me so much. But I know this: I was captivated, thoroughly at
the mercy of this movie, and it didn't let me go.

If you like weird thrillers, check this one out. There's some serious
quality and effort here.
<|_=00=_|>
Thank goodness for Film4 who are showing a season of British cinema .
If it wasn't for them I'd be missing out on some obscure British films
that have bypassed the local multiplex . Oh hold on what am I doing
thanking them ? There might be a very good reason these Brit flicks
aren't getting a wider distribution deal ? Certainly KILL LIST is a
case in point 

I knew absolutely nothing about this film before seeing it . Not a
single thing and not wanting to spoil any surprises for myself stayed
away from this website and the wikipedia in case it spoiled any
surprises and I'm glad I did because the ending for KILL LIST both
makes or breaks the film and I mean this in a very cynical way 

Jay and Gal are a couple of former soldiers and Gal offers Jay some
work under the guise of freelance work . As it transpires the work is
composed of contract killings of people who are revealed to be
producers of child pornography 

It's at this point Jay proclaims he'd happily kill these nonces free of
charge and who can blame him . It's also at this point the audience
think they know where the film might be heading though they might be
confused as to why the victims of this paid vigilantism thank their
executioners as they're battered with hammers and have cigarettes
stubbed out on their bare flesh 

Make no mistake this is graphic extreme cinema shot in that confused "
neo-realist style " By this I mean the sound mix is off , the camera
work is shaky and the music is composed of rhythmically amorphous muzak
that is disconcerting and the editing is jarring . In many ways it's
anti-realist and you see the same sort of directorial technique such as
Shane Meadows DEAD MANS SHOES and I thought that's the type of film I
was watching . I was wrong 

You see what happens at the end Jay and Gal go to assassinate their
last target the local MP who is having a human sacrifice in a field (
Stop laughing up the back ) and find themselves fleeing for their lives
as the cultists follow them wailing like banshees . These cultists have
no fear of death as they catch up and kill Gal . They then proceed to
surround Jay's house like a naked version ASSUALT ON PRECINT 13 

" But Theo wouldn't someone have the decency to phone the police and
have the cultists arrested for if not murder then at least streaking ?
"

Look don't ask so many silly questions I didn't write the screenplay
I'm only a mere audience member but from what I could gather the police
, the local MP all of Jay's neighbours and everyone he knows including
the bloke who gave him the original contract are all members of this
cult . The thinking behind this cult is never ever explained and the
fact that it's completely leftfield seems to be a completely brazen and
cynical attempt to make KILL LIST something more than a mere vigilante
drama featuring torture porn as a selling point 

It's this ending that makes or breaks the film . I do notice a lot of
people on this page enjoyed it and have to confess I sat with my jaw on
the floor as to the ending , but this isn't necessarily a good thing .
Ask yourself this - how well would this film be remembered if it wasn't
for the ending featuring the death worshipers . Likewise ask yourself
how a conspiracy like this could exist in real life ? I know people
will draw parallels with what's going on at the BBC and politicians
allegedly visiting children's homes for the most depraved reasons but
people having human sacrifices led by the local MP in public fields is
something different entirely
<|_=00=_|>
The first few frames of this film had me concerned that i'd be watching
one of those 'guns n geezers' films that have furnished the careers of
Danny Dyer,Nick Love and the like, but these worries were quickly
quelled as i found myself being drawn deeper and deeper into the world
of these odd characters and their violent, unstable lives. There is an
intensity to 'Kill List', similar to that felt when watching the 'funny
how?' scene in Goodfella. The threat of violence hangs ever present
throughout and i can honestly say, the film is one of the toughest
viewing experiences i have ever had. Not only is the threat and
intensity level turned up to number 11, the actual explosions of
violence made me go light headed, one in particular. Overall, it's hard
to argue against Kill List, yes it's overly violent, yes it's full of
darkness and brimming malice, but it's succeeds as it sets out to. Bad
things happen to bad people.
