
While on a mission one of the "Expendables" gets himself killed, this
leads the crew to go on a mission of revenge. But is it too much to
handle? 

I was severely disappointed in the first Expendable film, the mediocre
action, the use of CGI blood and the unimpressive villain ruined the
experience. So I was hoping that the second time around they would
correct these issues. I can safely say, they did and they did it in
spades. The big change is Stallone is no longer behind the camera, so
he is more focused on his role of Barney and his mind isn't split
between two separate places. The biggest change though is the tone, The
Expendables 2 does not take itself seriously at all and neither did I,
so I had a blast watching what is ultimately a parody of the action
genre. 

I can look past the acting, lack of story and plot because the film
doesn't try to give you one. It's a simple film with a simple purpose.
Get as many of these big guys into one film, make it a guys flick with
lots of action and killing and they succeeded. The biggest misstep this
film has is the motivation behind the revenge. The wrong person dies. A
character is killed off that we have almost zero emotional connection
with, it would have made more sense if it were another character that
disappears early on in the film. It seems this character's sole purpose
was to have these characters get their revenge on, which makes it less
engaging for the viewer.

I was surprised at how underwhelmed I was by the action in the first
film, here it is more stylized and fun. The film steps on the gas from
the very beginning and almost never lets up. We are thrown into this
action sequence at the start, which is better than anything the
original had to offer. A more competent action director is behind the
lens this time, Simon West who gave us Con Air and the more recent
Mechanic. He understands what is needed and delivers some wild action
sequences. 

As I mentioned before, the film does not take itself seriously and it
has a very tongue and cheek demeanour about it. It's not afraid to wink
at the camera, specifically when Chuck Norris enters the screen and
steals the show with the funniest line in the entire film. The film is
full of one liners you would expect from an action film. During a
fight, one characters exclaims, "Let's wrap this up" he then proceeds
to take a chain and wrap it around another character's neck to choke
him out. Another scene we have a bad guy get shot a dozen times by
everyone and Stallone retorts, "Rest in pieces". Finally, my favourite,
Stallone says "heads up" then proceeds to throw a head to some people.
Yes, this movie is violent, so no fear about the PG-13 rating.

So what about the guys? Well, they all come back, some have a lot more
to do than others. Lundgren is basically the comedic relief. Crews and
Courture again get short shifted and feel like background characters.
Schwarzenegger, Willis and Norris all have more in depth cameos and
finally Van Damme shines as the villain. Van Damme really deserved more
screen time. We are introduced to him, then we cut back every so often
as he tries to steal his plutonium, then we have him fight at the end.
He deserved more screen time, so did his right hand man, Scott Adkins.
Both are more martial arts type fighters than big gun shooters and
since this is a Stallone film, this is a big gun shooting movie. They
get their fight sequences, but both of them I thought could have been a
bit longer. Especially the Van Damme/Stallone fight.

So in the end, The Expendables did exactly what the first film should
have done. It's a hilarious parody of the action genre and has non-stop
excitement from start to finish. This is finally the film from these
guys that I've been waiting for.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, yes, much better than the first.... thank god, more
locations, funnier and better put together.

No time from opening credits, its straight into the action, which is
more epic imo, and is what should have been seen in the first film but
maybe due to a low budget we were subjected to a lesser affair The team
work well, all of them and Hemsworth does really well as the new boy on
the block and second time round and you kind of know these guys. Arnie,
bruce are seen more but are not seen as much as the usual gang, and li
is seen the least.

Norris is great, seen here and there, great entrance and more of a
cameo, and van damme makes good his role as the villain.

The story pretty much straight forward, better than the first, but
nothing special, some dialogue was hard to hear, and sly does try to be
serious in some scenes which got a laugh and I don't think its how it
was intended but its not that much of a big deal really as there are
funny moments in the film, more so than the first film.

Fight scenes were better this time round, not too prolonged, timed
well, and the one on ones didn't drag on too long. Sly & van damme's
fight could have been a bit longer but I guess after all the chaos
leading up to that point it was sufficient enough without getting too
silly, reminded me of a Rocky fight here and there....he he One liners
were good, dolph was great, the girl is good also, be good to see her
in exp3, locations and sets fab, cgi was not obvious and edited well.

One thing I will say is sly does have issues coming across as funny and
I don't know why. He's funny in real life and was funny in rocky but
its hit and miss and it shows here in some scenes.

Its not 10/10 in my book. Maybe when i see it again it may be better in
my mind, but like i say a better story would of helped If there is a
3rd, I would like to see more of a story if that is at all possible,
see what you think guys when its out, but it's a big improvement on the
first and that's a good sign
<|_=00=_|>
I saw The Expendables II this morning at a pr√© screening. What can I
tell you about this movie. Firstly, it's really action packed. You're
blasted off in the first few minutes leading up to the actual story.
Obviously, this is not a film with a great script or impressive
acting.However, the story works well for what it's supposed to do! It
is greatly entertaining if you are looking for an action packed movie
loaded with iconic action stars like Stallone,Willis and many more. The
addition of Chuck Norris and van Damme to the cast worked out well.
It's really good to see Chuck Norris in action again and he really
pulls it off! I expect that the people who will like this movie most
will be the fans of the old guard like Stallone, Schwwarzennegger and
Norris and the other cast members. Someone I really liked was Liam
Hemsworth who did a great job and stood his own between these action
giants! Nan Yu as Maggie was also a good casting choice an did what she
was supposed to do.

Aside from the "overdrive" action the film also had a lot of humor,
which gave some counterweight to the action.

I hope, but quite frankly expect this will do really well in cinema's
globally. As a long time Sylvester Stallone fan I can only hope that he
(and his family) will find the strenght to overcome the loss of his
son.

To the people who are going to see this extravanganza, I hope you'll
enjoy it as much as I did!
<|_=00=_|>
What we have here is an almost contemptuous lack of respect for
property and human life. But, when that human life is vile, murderous,
plutonium pilfering dirtballs, then its time chop, break, snap, blast,
liquify, incinerate and decapitate (repeat).

There's very little point in going into a great deal of explanation of
what makes this so worth a trip down to your local cinema. Suffice to
say Sylvester Stallone has once again saved action movies and put the
meat back on the bone. 

Here he is aided and abetted by messrs Schwarzenegger, Willis, Norris,
Van Damme, Statham, Li, Lundgren, Crews, Couture, who all dive into the
proceedings with an enthusiastic amount of esprit de corps, taking the
carnage to a hitherto undiscovered level. 

This is an action movie with both feet planted firmly in the 80's and
there nothing wrong with that one iota. The guys banter, crack jokes,
shoot and cause things to blow up, the bad guys are hissable, murderous
wretches to a man and are blown up.

Everybody is clearly having a blast, so in translation, so do you, of
particular note, Jean Claude Van Damme provides a standout performance
as sneery and arrogant Jean Villain.

If you like proper action movies i would be bewildered if you didn't
enjoy this. Sly, you did it again, you are without a shadow of doubt
"the man".

If they can deliver Eastwood, Ford, Cage, Snipes, Russell, Biehn,
Weathers and T for the next one, then my money is already spent.
<|_=00=_|>
I have no idea why so many people like this movie, maybe I have high
standards, but i have to say, all the characters in this movie just
don't mix. You can't have all the characters the MAIN character and the
story is just pure garbage.

The only bit I liked in this movies was the part where Chuck Norris
flashes into the scene, other than that it's just a bundle of shooting
and screaming and nothing else really.

The whole story didn't even have a feeling that something was
happening. The plutonium was considered a piece of candy that was
stolen and everyone was focused on being a 'badass'.

If all mercenaries would be crying babies like this guys, how will they
ever survive a seeing a small puppy on the side of the road? In my
opinion it's just pathetic.

At least the first movie had a topic, people were talking in their
native language, here everyone knows English, no matter where they are
from.

Truly I give up, since most of this actors are some of my favorite, but
repeating old movie lines (I back, I'm coming back, You came back
enough), just makes them look like clowns.

One good thing about this movie is that they did get the character of
Jean-Claude Van Damme right. He is a true psycho, but they just found
out this right now.

Other than this, the movies deserve a 3 star rating, and this is
generous considering that the director of the movie just bashed all the
characters head on raw concrete with his amazingly stupid script.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't care if I'm the minority here but seriously if anyone has ever
seen a decent movie before then they would realize how ridiculous this
film is. So much talent can be had from this cast as most of us have
seen over the years. If the dialogue from this movie wasn't enough to
deter me from liking it then it was the multiple references to previous
action films starring the individual cast that did it. The addition of
Liam Hemsworth playing billy the kid was a strong move considering his
part was by far the most interesting and well portrayed. Better kill
off the greatest part in the film (it was pretty evident and clich√©
that Billy was going to die due to the fact that in every film where
someone is about to leave or better themselves in some way leads to
their death). Another thing that really bothered me about this film was
the fact that Jason Statham's "honey" bothering him throughout the film
had literally no relevance, yet they led the audience to believe it
would.

The editing in this film was tragic... Ever since Stallone has been
making a "come back" with action films, the animated blood that is
featured is some of the most unrealistic i've seen. When I first
witnessed this odd looking blood was in the most recent "Rambo". I
thought then that it was interesting looking but eventually due to the
excessive amount of it being used i grew tired. There is a scene in The
Expendables 2 where they have cleared out a small church filled with
Van Damme's cronies and only one enemy is left. They proceed to light
this man up, (which i found comical) but once again the terrible
editing in this scene ruined it. You can clearly see his entire torso
covered in poorly edited bullet holes that don't even move with the
mans body.

With a cast and crew like this, I'd think they'd be able to fund for
some fantastic special effects. Thanks for the disappointment though.
<|_=00=_|>
The first thing that strikes me about this movie is, why does it look
SO bad? Is it the feel or style they are going for? I dunno, it just
looks bad. Maybe they are trying to Vaseline screen the aging stars,
who are all in great shape by the way, or are they saving on film? Do
they even use film anymore? SPOILER ALERT Virtually every action scene
here is over the top and totally unbelievable except for a short scene
with Jet Li. The initial escape scene makes NO SENSE! Sly gets shot
while going down a seemingly infinite zip line? Statham's got his back
so he stays behind while they are surround and the rest of the team
continues the escape on the water high speed style. Out of nowhere Sly
and Jason are rescued by fledgling team member snipers them out of the
situation. Sly grunts "Time for plan b" back to the water chase. Jet
skis, for no apparent reason appear from nowhere and the team abandons
the boat. Just when all is lost, Stallone and Statham zoom overhead in
the plane they arrived in. How is this plan b? Wouldn't the boats and
jet ski's be plan b. Jet skis shoot into the ramp of the plane as the
plane struggles get get enough lift to take off before they crash into
a huge damn. Hey, since we are having trouble gaining altitude, let's
head for the HIGHEST POINT on the dam! Most of the action scenes pretty
much follow this level of nonsense. Oh well, maybe the writing is good?
Nope! Back story for the newbie team member to make us care about him
when he gets killed pretty much goes like this, "So, how did you get
into this line of work?" " I was in Afganistan for three years when my
platoon got trapped in the oil zone. By the time we got out, four of my
friends were dead. When I got back to base, they had shot the dog I was
taking care of, so, I'd had enough killing for the day"! That's it?
That's the best the writes of this mega budget could come up with? Also
to the character, since you had enough killing you decided to become a
mercenary where you would kill people all day! Speaking of death, I
read a stunt man died making this POS. people die everyday, on the
subway, in their sleep, lots o reasons, but honestly, I can't think of
a bigger waste of life than to die for this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
It takes a certain mindset to appreciate a movie like "The Expendables
2". One has to be a fan of the action genre of the 1980s and early
1990s, as well as enjoying those action heroes' persona and screen
presence whenever they appear on-screen. They did not necessarily have
to act well, but they had to be tough, heroic, stoic, larger than life.
Realism need not really apply here - it's all about the fun factor.
People paid to see these guys blow away the scum of the earth as they
only know how.

"The Expendables 2" is the first sequel (and it most certainly would
not be the last) to Stallone's 2010 surprise blockbuster which was
intended as a glorious throwback to the films of that era. This one is
no exception. However, it is a rare sequel which is better than the
first. The story may not be important in these types of movies, but in
this one the screenplay had a much clearer and stronger narrative than
the first film, making it clear that the stakes are raised, thus
enabling the story, however shallow, to be more engaging for the
audience.

Director Simon West ("Con Air") did wonders with the action sequences
as he usually does with his movies. The majority of the action
sequences are well shot with wide angles and much better stunt
choreography (with CGI touches added here and there, but not as
pervasive as the first film's CGI blood; good ol' squibs are used here
mostly) which gets annoying with the film's rapid editing at times.
Brian Tyler's music score was fairly engaging but didn't really stand
out. Overall, the technical aspects of the film really shows off the
big budget for the film, and it pays off ultimately.

But what about the characters? If you've seen the director's cut for
the first film, that's about as close as you can get for character
development. Like the first, this is all-out action, but it has some
dramatic moments too. There is a line about coping with death that
Barney Ross mutters that feels kind of sad knowing Stallone's own real-
life predicament. Van Damme's having a blast as the Villain, and a
menacing one at that. The biggest disappointment was that of Jet Li's
very minimal screen presence, like a cameo. Hopefully an extended
version will fix that problem.

The film's biggest entertainment value comes in the constant one-liners
from and between the action icons of the eras, as well as their
presence and their dispatching of the bad guys. The banter here is
certainly more hilarious and less bland than the first film - there is
much more chemistry between the characters. Their screen presence needs
no explanation: Sylvester Stallone. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Bruce
Willis. Jean-Claude Van Damme. Chuck Norris. Dolph Lundgren. Jason
Statham. Jet Li. Need I say more? Cult or mainstream, these guys each
has hordes of fans - and they have good reason to.

I grew up on these types of movies and ultimately "The Expendables 2"
satisfies my craving for good old-fashioned movie bloodlust in wake of
the ever-rising wave of PG-13, CGI-laden action films ("Total Recall"
remake, anyone? Oh Arnie, where art thou?). That being said, I expect
an extended director's cut as I feel that some parts were awkwardly put
together, and hopefully these removed scenes will make the film better
as a whole. For now, "The Expendables 2" is very good entertainment, as
shallow as it is technically well-made and ends the 2012 summer movie
season with a big bang.

Now bring on "The Expendables 3" with Steven Seagal and Wesley Snipes
(to basically complete the cycle of 80's/'90s action heroes). Mel
Gibson, Kurt Russell, Harrison Ford, Nicolas Cage and Clint Eastwood
(my #1 action hero) are also most welcome indeed.

Overall rating: 65%

Action movie rating: 75%
<|_=00=_|>
It's incredible, the amount of money this movie has supposedly made .

I am a huge fan of action movies; I have watched and rewatched all the
flicks with Stallone , Schwarzenegger, Stratham, and many of those with
the other known actors .

The first Expendables movie I enjoyed a lot; however, this one is
taking it way beyond the silly, yet entertainable threshold .

Where to start ?

The acting is wooden, to say the least . Granted, the dialogues are
poorly written, and the attempts at humour and the references are
clumsy and forced .

But most of the known actors in this movie can do so much better, have
done so in other roles , and are so experienced, that I find it hard to
comprehend how they could agree to do this script . The money, of
course, yet I somehow think that their performance in this movie will
seriously hurt their career prospects .

This is sad for veterans like Van Damme and Lundgren, who did great in
their recent projects to add some substance to their pedigree, but
where cast as 2 dimensional morons for this .

The action is decent, though not very original, and very much on the
silly side . I don't mind if it's realistic, but this is just action
for action's sake, and thrown in like random video clips ; the action
scenes don't even pretend to be real, as they do in any good action
movie, but are intentionally created like circus acts .

Which brings me to editing; you know those over-sized Legos for
toddlers ? The kids can put them together , it's easy and they fit ,
but it's just a bunch of bricks, no gaps but the colors don't match and
there is no discernible shape . That's this movie .

The pieces somehow fit, never match, but everything got squeezed in
that was available and deemed necessary , no matter how poorly executed
. All boxes ticked, job done . Some parts even seem to have been shot
seperatly and poorly stuck together, like some of the Schwarzenegger
appearances; scenes jump from one environment to the next, held
together by some half sentence in the previous scene .

What really killed it for me, was Chuck Norris - the straw and the
camel's back .

It's not just that he is such a bad actor, and doesn't even look like
himself anymore; take Steven Seagal as an example - he is horrible, but
he can be made fun of easily and blended into this kind of movie (if
the writers had had any sense of humor to start with) . But Norris
isn't funny, nothing about him is . An empty shell with a beard glued
to it, his legacy is being known for not worth being known .

Yet still he got a big part in the later stages of the movie - randomly
and inexplicably thrown in, like everything else .

It's truly bad movie, and goes to show how marketing can even make a
skeleton effort of a movie into a success .
<|_=00=_|>
I went to this film expecting another fun explosive ride and I got what
I was expecting. Lots of explosions, plenty of bullets and numerous
kills. I have to say I enjoyed this one a bit more than the last one, I
am not sure what the critics were complaining about, but then they were
harsh to Sylvester and Arnold's films back in the day too, so I guess I
should not expect anything different this go around. And speaking of
Arnold, it was great to see him back and part of the action this time.
Probably one of the reasons I enjoyed this one a bit more than the
second film.

The story has our gang going into some type of military type
installation to retrieve a hostage right from the get go. Suffice to
say, before the title comes across the screen you are exposed to lots
of action and violence. Ah Sylvester, you sure know how to do it right.
We get introduced to a new member of the team and sad to say we have to
say goodbye to one of the older members. Granted he was not killed, but
he does exit the film early and does not return. I could not believe he
did not come back, and if I have a gripe about the film it is that this
character did leave so early. Well Church (Bruce Willis) finds Barney
(Stallone) and he wants a favor. He wants Barney to take his team to
the site of a crash to retrieve something. Something that Van Damme
wants and gets. Barney's group goes after this villain, not because of
what was taken, but for revenge! The character's are expanded upon here
a bit more. It was great seeing Dolph with the team for the entire
film. He is still crazy, but he is a bit more under control and
actually provides some very humorous moments. Arnold and Bruce are in
this one a lot more than the previous film too. They get to take part
in the action this time as their roles are not merely walk ons this
time. Chuck Norris also gets to do his thing, just as he did back in
the 70's and 80's. Van Damme was also in this one a good deal and he
made a very good villain. He was much more memorable than the villains
from the previous film, I mean Stone Cold was good at the fighting, but
did not leave an impression on me as far as acting. Van Damme on the
other hand played the part of a villain very well, this film may open
up another avenue for him.

This film was fun for me. I am not suggesting it is a work of art or
anything, but I missed the first film in the theaters, so I was not
going to miss this one. I wanted to see this troupe of action stars
shoot it up on the big screen and I got what I wanted to see. Arnold's
return was particularly satisfying for me, as there has been a void in
my movie theater life since he became governor. I want to see him on
the big screen as he was a favorite of mine as a kid and young adult. I
also enjoyed seeing Norris on the big screen for the first time in my
life. I thank Stallone for bringing all the big guns to the table and
while others may not have cared for this film...for me, it was a blast!
So sorry if you do not care for my opinion, but I enjoyed this film.
