
This drivel masquerades as a comedy but offers little more than a
misplaced feminist rant. I am sure they expected women to say 'oh it's
so true - we DO make lists and we Do multitask!' but please - who
exactly was this aimed at - zombie life forms? Maybe they think that
women are so tired that they wouldn't notice how cliché-ridden and
pathetically hackneyed this offering is? It was not amusing. It was not
interesting. It was not original. It did not have a single redeeming
quality and I suggest you do not waste your time nor your money on this
rubbish.

Indeed I shall waste no more time reviewing it.
<|_=00=_|>
The paper-thin plot of this movie revolves around working mother Kate,
juggling her way through life. It sounds dull and more appropriate for
a sit-com  and definitely would be. I read that the script is based on
a novel, which I am determined to ignore, especially after having seen
the movie.

Kate is played by SJP, an actress who could easily be described as the
female Tom Hanks  albeit slightly less talented. Her likability is
enormous, but unfortunately her choice of roles very limited; in her
repertoire there are only comedies, most of them remarkable failures at
the box office. Her sidekicks in this movie are Greg Kinnear and Pierce
Brosnan, two good actors with a wider range, who play respectively her
husband and a business associate. One wishes there was more of them on
screen. Unfortunately we get plenty of SJP and of her friend played by
Christina Hendricks. It could have been any other actress playing
second fiddle to SJP, as poor Christina is used only to enunciate a
string of questionable statements.

For a comedy there are very few laughers. Actually, none at all from
me. The punch lines sounded tired and unfunny and the "real life"
situations abused and stale: what about an envious colleague who would
like to steal your glory? Or a supportive best friend with a lousy love
life? Not to mention the neglected husband. All seen in a million other
comedies, most of them better than this one.

The problem with this, and an increasingly larger number of movies, is
that they are targeted to a very restricted public. This one is
targeted strictly to 1) working mothers with young children, and 2)
die-hard fans of SJP. I doubt anybody else will find it even mildly
amusing, as it does not work at all as a comedy. Indeed, in the cinema
where I saw it, even if the audience was mostly female, only a woman in
her mid-thirties laughed out loud.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was so bad it gave me heart burn. The only reason i gave
this film one was because it ended, as i honestly thought that i was
entering one of the many levels hell where i would be destined to spend
eternity listening to a bunch middle aged hens moan about life.

Sadly IMDb is telling me i have to write ten lines of text to describe
this film. Which is more than the story of this film consisted of to
begin with. I am honestly astounded that this "film" was actually made.
People had to work and make this.. there was huge amounts of money
involved.. deadlines, effort and hundreds of people working that
ultimately ended in this.. nothing more than a waste of space, internet
and time...

Now that i have reached the minimum ten lines for a review i will stop
writing and scour the memory of this film from my mind.

AVOID LIKE THE PLAGUE!!
<|_=00=_|>
Kate Reddy lives a busy life. She is a high-rising finance executive
and a mother of two young children. She is often away from home,
causing family strains and whatnot. What happens when Kate suddenly
gets a big assignment, that requires her to stay away from home for
more than two months?

To be honest, I was at a struggle to write a summary for this movie. I
couldn't think. Words couldn't come to me. This movie didn't do
anything for me. The movie played for 80+ minutes, but there was no
real progression in its story line. Nothing happened.. Really. After
the movie ended, I wondered what exactly was it that the directors
wanted to show to its audience.

I don't recommend watching this movie, unless you're looking for a time
waster.. If that's the case, go ahead and rent this movie.

Viewed on: November 29, 2011
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying I LOVE SJP in SATC. She has flopped in most of
her major motion pictures, but this is by far, one of the worst movies
I have ever seen in my life. Thank goodness my friend had free passes
for us, because I can not imagine wasting any amount of money on this
garbage. The plot, acting, and entire movie was horrible. It was
honestly painful to sit through and I would not recommend this movie to
anyone. I love watching movies, and I have seen some bad ones in my
time, but this one honestly takes the cake! I do not understand why she
continues to be casted in anything because she should have ended her
career on a high note with SATC because I don't think she will ever
redeem herself as a quality actress.
<|_=00=_|>
I started watching this film with my wife as we looked to spend some
quality time. It was OK at first, as you try to edge into the story.
When you hear Kate's friend telling you how great Kate is and that it's
so much harder for her being a woman in corporate America, it's a sign
to switch off. They introduced the concept of the supermoms and how
they are the enemy with everything so perfect but disappointingly never
really developed it. She makes a list of things to do in her head but
it doesn't go anywhere or really contribute to the film. It goes on and
on about how she is holding this together being so hard for women in
corporate America (I mention this again, it really is all this film is
about) at which time, i found excuses to get up and go to the toilet,
get up and get some popcorn, just to leave. Normally when I have to
leave a film, I am all questions when I get back, "What did I miss?",
"Did she tell him yet?", "Who's that guy?" (Typical man), but with this
one I just didn't care. It's not a Rom Com as there's little romance
and it ain't funny so i don't know what you would call it. At this time
I thought this might be me but my wife also fell asleep watching it so
yes, it really isn't me.

So, hardship for a woman in corporate America... What is to be gleaned
from a movie like this? Do they tell you how to cope? Stay awake until
3 every morning making imaginary lists in your head for things to do...
that's it, nothing more exciting. Do they expand on how hard it is for
a woman? No, If you ask me, the character played by Greg Kinnear had
just as hard a time and nothing really expanded. Is it romantic? An
unrealistic, cheesy, made for TV, approach made by her
coworker/superior/I don't know where he falls into this/Pierce Brosnan,
and that's it. Lots of traveling? Welcome to corporate America!

So in short, nothing to take home but 89minutes of your life you'll
never get back... Almost as depressing a thought as the film
<|_=00=_|>
Kate(Sarah Jessica Parker), is happily married to her husband(Greg
Kinnear), and has two great kids. And she also has a great job. But
then her job increases to more hours, better pay, but less hours at
home. How will Kate manage this all in one.

Sarah Jessica Parker is incredibly annoying, she just mugs for the
camera,a good part of the film, I'll just say she was more amusing in
Sex and the City. Greg Kinnear is so bland in his role, not that he was
bad, he was just there. Pierce Brosnan is a scene stealer has Parkers
partner in the film, he just is more charismatic than anybody else in
the film. And Olivia Munn has Parkers assistant, is way funnier than
Parker, cause she doesn't act like she ate a lot of sugar to get into
her role, like the way Sarah Jessica Parker does.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, we kind of enjoyed this but by the end we were both agreed
that this was good for TV but not really up to film standards - our
conclusion was that SJP just doesn't have the presence to pull this off
- she's a good ensemble actress, but on her own, as a star, carrying a
film? We just couldn't make that leap.

The script has some nice wry observations on marriage, career, and
parenting but all-in-all this needs more wit and spark, more oomph.
Most of the comedy came from the idea of sexual tension between SJP and
Brosnan, and that's just cheap laughs.

This film is aimed firmly at women over 30 who either have to, want to,
or who wish they didn't have to juggle children, career, and life. It
is wryly amusing and observant occasionally, but there should be lots
and lots more of that, the paucity of observation and the safe
boundaries means it fails to create anything other than a very safe
film that is mostly trite.

While it is admirable for having good strong female characterizations
it fails really to go anywhere with it, and above all, SJP just does
little to convince us that she's a star vehicle.

All in all, OK with a glass of chardonnay, pretty difficult without....
<|_=00=_|>
Being a working mom and constantly evaluating my own choices, I thought
this movie would speak to me. It was referred to me by another working
mom. Though there was some truth to this movie, overall it was really
unwatchable! It was way too clichéd and heavy handed. Sarah Jessica
Parker needs a fork stuck in her - she's done. I enjoyed her as Carrie
Bradshaw; her continuing to be Carrie in every movie is tedious. The
script was so bad, however, that I doubt any lead actress could have
salvaged this mess.

Had the movie been WAY less condescending, it might have made some
great commentary. The supporting players are not bad. But the mother in
law and token judgmental stay at home mom are just way too over the top
to be effective. Also, the amount of work Parker's character juggles is
unrealistic. I also found the notion that the working dad contributes
nearly nothing to the home absurd. How offensive! This movie could have
been interesting; instead, it sucks.
<|_=00=_|>
A mother running a family and keeping a job, how groundbreaking. What's
interesting is that Hollywood writers seem to think that working
mothers really give a **** about competing with a bunch of Chanel
wearing housewives at a stupid school bake sale. I always tell my
husband if our child is so easily traumatized she's just not going to
make it. Other than the fact that at work you get to meet good looking
men who offer you a kind of escape from your daily headaches at home,
this movie really isn't all that accurate. It's what I always thought a
working mother's life would be...when I was 20 and in business school.
Clearly Hollywood never graduated.
