
It's not hard to figure out what's wrong with this movie. Skeptics may
think Tyler Perry was a bad choice to fill in a young Morgan Freeman's
shoes but he was absolutely fine in the role. Plus, Matthew Fox as a
psychopathic skinhead assassin? Hell yes. Edward Burns as Perry's
detective partner? Eh, less convincing but I'll let it slide. The
direction and the writing though... whew. It's amazing the actors were
able to recite this dialogue with a straight face.

The story of Alex Cross is a simple murder mystery - Alex Cross and his
partner investigate the scene of a crime and discover that they're
after a professional killer referred to as Picasso. Then things get
personal and Cross plans to seek his revenge once and for all. Standard
crime thriller plot, right? The problem is when the characters start
talking to each other. Honestly, it's laughable how bad some of this
dialogue is, especially between Cross and his family. They throw in
these "emotional" scenes to break up the action but all they do is make
for a really awkward paced movie. It would be passable if the dialogue
actually moved the plot forward but it doesn't, at all. There are some
subplots that are introduced and never brought up again. Like Alex
Cross becoming an FBI agent. What was the point of even including that?

The main reason to watch this movie is for Matthew Fox. He's playing a
sadist who is "fascinated by pain." Not very original but who cares,
it's Matthew Fox playing a 130 pound untamable psychopath. The scenes
in which we see him doing his job - stalking his targets, infiltrating
their houses, taking out their body guards and whatnot - are the most
interesting parts of the movie. He's really the only character given a
clear cut motive and enough development to make him a decent
antagonist. He's also batsh*t crazy, did I mention that? Yeah, he's a
lot of fun to watch.

Unfortunately Perry isn't given nearly as much to work with. He's a
generic detective masquerading under the name Alex Cross who acts as a
poor man's Sherlock Holmes. His whole objective is to get into the mind
of this madman while trying to maintain a steady family life, but
instead of building tension between these two factors and having them
play off one another and ultimately effecting Cross' personal life, the
writer/director think it's more effective to jump from one setting to
another with no lead-ins or relevance to what just happened or what is
about to happen. The family scenes are cringeworthy, and even the
dialogue with his partner gets really cheesy. I wanted to see more
psychological warfare between Cross and Picasso. They try to do that in
a couple scenes but it's so poorly written that you don't believe a
word of it.

Tyler Perry's acting shines in a few scenes. He's certainly a capable
dramatic actor and anyone who says otherwise is talking out of their
ass. Thankfully I haven't seen the Madea movies so I had no prior
opinion of Perry but he won me over with this. Mind you, some of his
lines sound forced and awkward but that's completely on the
scriptwriters. It's just impossible to be drawn to the character, and
you'd think with a title like Alex Cross that we'd get a deep look into
the mind of the title character, but instead they spoon-feed us this
cheesy soapy dialogue and the occasional battle-of-wits with the
villain that isn't the least bit intriguing. Also, the climax of this
movie, if you can even call it that, is laughable. The fight scene is
probably the worst camera work I have seen in an action movie. You can
hardly see what's going on half the time, and once it ends you're just
like, okay. Is that it?

Again, the leads save this movie from being a total bomb. I was
admittedly entertained for a good portion of the movie despite its
stupid dialogue. None of it is inventive or new; it's just your
run-of-the-mill murder mystery that is low on thrills and high on
cheese. Worth a one time watch if it's on TV or something, but really
the main thing you'll remember from Alex Cross is the criminally wasted
talent.
<|_=00=_|>
Tyler Perry takes on the Alex Cross character and fails miserably.
Though he's hardly the only one at fault here. 

The trouble starts with the screenplay, which is nothing short of
dismal. All of the main characters are one dimensional with no
development whatsoever. Patterson's novel is condensed down to a
formulaic and predictable plot, where you can see trouble coming a mile
away. There is no development of the villain, why he does what he does
and why a professional assassin would make the choices that he makes.
Time makes absolutely no sense in this movie. Events must have occurred
over a period of time in the book that have been condensed down to
minutes in this movie. I haven't seen a movie in a while we're I've
said to myself "You've got to be kidding me" multiple times because the
scene was so implausible. Rob Cohen's direction is nothing short of
terrible. Action scenes that are so blurry you can't tell who is
beating up who. When there's not action scenes, the rest of the film is
a talking heads 70's made for TV movie. The acting flat out stinks
(with the exceptions of all to brief appearances of Cicely Tyson and
Giancarlo Esposito). No chemistry with Perry and Ed Burns and no
chemistry between the villain (Matthew Fox) and Perry. The movie score
mostly sounds like a movie of the week from the 70's. The only
redeeming value I find in this film is the location. There were some
nice uses of Detroit buildings in the film. Other than that, don't
waste your time.
<|_=00=_|>
This is hands down one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my life,
and I've seen a boatload of lousy movies. Both the dialog and plotting
are hackneyed beyond description--not one original idea or twist, and
not a single exchange that feels genuine. It's the kind of childishly
obvious genre rehash in which you can tell who's going to be killed
just by the relative one-dimensionality of their characters. Matthew
Fox, who clearly dropped his body fat to zero for this film, will one
day look back and regret all those months he went without a decent
meal, because a) the movie is terrible, and b) his portrayal of a
psychotic killer is ultimately a study in clich√©. Ed Burns furrows his
brow convincingly enough, but his easygoing charm has nowhere to go
here. Likewise John McGinley, whose neurotic fatalism seems plucked
from an entirely different and more lighthearted police procedural
being filmed down the street. And then there's Tyler Perry, who expends
so much energy in a futile attempt to project faux masculinity and
criminological gravitas that he apparently has nothing left for
tangential stuff like changing his facial expression once in a while.
Perry can thank his lucky stars he's already a Hollywood fixture,
because If this were his first movie, he'd never get another
offer--truly, he's that bad.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally, a Tyler Perry movie that is actually funny. For those who
don't know, however, Alex Cross is not meant to be a comedy. It's
supposed to be a serious action/drama. With all of its cheesy moments,
corny dialog, and doubtful plot points, Alex Cross misses entirely.

Alex Cross stars Tyler Perry as an expert detective who is about to
embark on his most difficult case. The case is to track down a deranged
psycho-killer played by Matthew Fox. Matthew Fox enjoys torturing
people to death and playing mind games with the detectives that are on
his trail. I would like to say more about the plot of this movie but
sadly, there isn't much more to tell. It's that basic. You'd think a
plot where a genius detective is facing an intelligent serial killer
would have more complexity, but it doesn't.

There are a lot of problems with Alex Cross. For starters, the script
may as well have been written by a thirteen year old. This is probably
one of the worst scripts of the year. In order to buy this script, you
just have to believe everything the characters say with no explanation.
The character Alex Cross never proves that he's smart. The audience is
just supposed to believe he's smart because other characters say so.
Cross just throws out theories without backing them up and of course,
they turn out to be right. For example, when Cross and his partner
(Edward Burns) walk into the first handful of murders committed by
Matthew Fox, Burns guesses that this must have been the work of
multiple guys. Cross replies, "Nope. This was one guy." Does he bother
to explain why he feels that way? Nope. In another example, Fox is on a
train and Burns comes up to Cross and says, "You need to get in his
head and think like him. If you were him, where would you be?" Cross
thinks and then exclaims, "He's on a train!" Care to enlighten us on
how you arrived to that realization Dr. Cross? The problem is, the
writers clearly aren't smart enough to come up with ways for their
characters to solve the case. Because this movie is so poorly written,
it is unbelievably predictable. I'm no Alex Cross, but I knew exactly
what was going to happen throughout the film. Literally, every scene
can be predetermined by a first time viewer.

Not only is there terrible writing, but there was also terrible
directing. Matthew Fox and Edward Burns are both very good actors, but
they can't do anything under poor direction. Everyone in this movie is
horrendous except for one person and that's Tyler Perry. I found this
very surprising because I can't stand Tyler Perry's work and I thought
he would be the worst thing about the movie. However, he is the only
thing that can be considered somewhat decent in the movie. You can tell
Perry wants to branch out but unfortunately, he can only do the best
with what he was given. There were so many bad decisions made by the
director. For emotion, he tries to add some family value by adding in
an old sassy black woman as character. Thankfully, this character was
not played by Tyler Perry. Another terrible idea was to have the camera
constantly shaking because that's an action movie clich√© that everyone
loves (sarcasm). The camera was shaking during the most still moments.
For example, the camera was shaking ferociously when, I kid you not, a
woman was typing on her computer. Perhaps one of the worst decisions
from the director though, was to throw in a twist at the end. Not only
did he add a twist, but he made it glaringly obvious.

The only reason anyone might find Alex Cross appealing is because they
get a kick out of watching bad movies or they really might enjoy seeing
Tyler Perry try and do something different. Other than that, there is
absolutely no reason to see this film. The acting is horrific, the
dialog is idiotic, the action sequences are poorly choreographed, and
the plot is 100% predictable. This movie is so bad, that you will find
yourself laughing at moments when you're supposed to be either gasping
or crying. D
<|_=00=_|>
When you make an action crime film please remember to connect all the
dots so that we, the audience, can achieve some sense of the story
line. The trailer was a slice of many of the best scenes but,
unfortunately the real film falls so sadly short of good storyline due
to poor dialog and some jerky acting that the viewer struggles to make
sense of the various actors.

If this film had been prescreened (proof read) any average movie-goer
would have pointed out just how poorly made it was. I sensed that Tyler
Perry gave a over acted performance. I really wanted to like this film
when it first came out but, it just was so boring and unimaginative I
began to realize that it was due to faulty construction of scenes and
character's dialog. This was mostly due to the director.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was worse than I expected. A lot worse. The blame goes all
around. The script is extraordinarily weak. Too much pulling on the
heart strings, not enough compelling action. The acting was completely
flat, no chemistry. I swear I could hear Tyler channeling Madea at
least twice. Feels like Perry and Burns dialed it in. Direction was
apathetic. Hand-held camera was noticeably bad, randomly jerking and
swinging wildly usually during action scenes. It felt like some weak
ass 1980's/90's TV cop show. I somehow felt bad for everyone involved:
Perry wanting to be an action hero; Fox trying to make a name for
himself by losing 40lbs, etc. Then I thought of a line from Entourage:
"It ain't easy making a movie." I heard a sequel is already being
planned. Can't be any worse but don't expect me to pay to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I have read all of the Alex Cross books. I have seen the other Alex
Cross movies....this "sham" is Alex Cross in title only. It's like Alex
Cross in bizarro land.....his wife Maria is still alive (for a while),
yet his daughter Janie appears to be around 9 or 10 years old, Damon is
the younger child, they live in Detroit, his best friend and partner is
a white guy; no Sampson???? The plot, the characters, everything is so
far off from what it could/should be, I have to wonder if they used the
title just to sucker in the many James Patterson fans. I was very
sceptical of Tyler Perry playing Cross. I have to say that overall, he
did a somewhat decent job. Fox was a great creepy guy. I think had they
been given a better story, like maybe..um, Alex Cross to work with, and
had the directing not been so cheesy,it might have been a decent movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Alex Cross - fictional sleuth known for taking readers on excursions
into killer's minds. Tyler Perry - personality known for making face on
camera.

This film misses the whole point of the Cross stories. The public
doesn't read or see Cross stories to watch Cross emote. We want to see
him solve the puzzle. 

Adolescent execution, the film tells us instead of showing us. We know
Alex Cross is smart because all the other characters say so. We know
the first female victim was brutalized because everyone says so.

I don't know for sure but this production seems to have Perry 's
fingerprints on it.

Some of the action was choreographed well. In particular the rail car
footage was well done. Moreover, the child who played his daughter
stood out. Fox's performance was top rate.
<|_=00=_|>
Adapted from James Patterson's pulp novel 'Cross', this cat-and-mouse
action flick more closely resembles an extended episode of 'NCIS' or
'Law and Order' than it does a fully-fledged feature film. The episodic
narrative and say-everything-I'm-thinking dialogue destroys all
subtlety and intelligence this may have had, whilst Rob Cohen's murky,
in-your-face direction is over-zealous, distracting and at times makes
it difficult to decipher what's actually going on in the action
sequences. Tyler Perry is hugely popular in the States thanks to his
dumbed-down, cross-dressing comedy output, but he goes full serious
here to mixed results. Perry's not a complete dud yet is easily
out-acted by Matthew Fox, whose psychotic serial killer ¬ñ replete with
twitches, tics and crazy eyes ¬ñ is fun to watch and elevates this from
total boredom to mediocre entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is laughably bad. The only saving grace in its favour is the
ability to add it to the pantheon of movies that are so bad they are
good. Only, it takes itself far too seriously, and think it's far too
good, to be worthy of an addition to that list. The movie is nonsense
in every way. Without spoiling anything, I will sum up how ludicrous
the movie is with one comment (and this kind of stuff runs throughout
the movie): we are supposed to believe that a pudgy Tyler Perry can
beat a super cut, super bad-ass Matthew Fox in a fight, when at the
beginning of the movie Matthew Fox destroys a seasoned MMA fighter. As
Dr. Evil would say: Rrrrrrright. Tyler Perry, by the way, is a
horrendously bad actor. I cannot believe they were talking sequel
before this movie came out. I also can't believe that the author of the
books about Alex Cross was actually touting this movie. If I had
written this character, and this trash came out, I could not distance
myself more from this movie. I'd be like Alan Moore, and not allow my
name anywhere on this crap.
