
Just saw it at the Sundance Film Festival here in Park City, Utah.'Like
Crazy' is a love story about the ups and the downs, the euphoria, the
heartache, and the sacrifices. For those who don't know the plot,
basically a British student, Anna, falls for Jacob, an American
student. They fall for each other right away, and spend the summer
together. However, she violates the stay of her student visa, and when
she tries to return to L.A., she is denied. Thus, our two lovers are
separated by distance and multiple levels of bureaucracy that prove to
be most unfair. Can they make it work, and should they? Some have
compared it to '500 Days of Summer,' and there are a few similarities.
The major difference is the lack of any unique narrative devices and
that it is, in fact, a love story. First and foremost, let me say that
Felicity Jones as Anna is a revelation. She owns the screen and was
utterly charming and devastatingly beautiful. There's a scene in the
first 10 minutes after they spend their first evening together, and
they sit on her bed, and a sense of tension but young awkwardness that
fills the room. When the conversation falters out, she gives him a look
that was filled with such delicate longing; fueled by the power of
young love and the possibilities before them. It was in this moment
that Anna, and Felicity, won me over. The chemistry between her and her
co-star Anton was realistic and powerful. Much of the film was
improvised; the director said he would often leave the camera rolling
for twenty to thirty minutes at a time just to capture them together.
It shows. I felt myself hoping and wishing for them to work it all out,
to end up together.

The music is fantastic. It provides the heartbeat to the film and is a
wonderful compliment. It's well edited - the film ultimately takes
place over what seems to be a couple of years. Unlike early versions of
the film, title cards have been removed and a series of jump cuts
progresses the time. You have to pay close attention at times to have a
firm grasp on the passage of time. There are moments when they are
happy and together that are so iconic. Walking the streets of London,
at times they looked like the cover of a Bob Dylan cover. Quick cuts of
them together whether in LA or London are quite beautiful.

This film was obviously made based on real experiences, and the
filmmakers admitted that it was the combination of many of their
experiences. It's a realistic film. Things aren't easy. You will smile
and laugh and other times feel just as much despair as our characters.
There are no easy answers in this film, and your ultimate
interpretation and perhaps enjoyment of the film depends on what you
bring to the table, and your feelings on love, and just how much you
believe in it. This film should make Felicity Jones a star in the way
that 'An Education' benefited Carey Mulligan.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was beautiful. I saw it at the Sundance Film Festival and
fell in love with it Like Crazy. Everything from the acting, to the
cinematography, to the story line was amazing. And to think it was shot
on the Canon 7D is incredible. I saw 14 films at Sundance and this was
my favorite film in the festival. During the Q&A after the film the
director made it clear that this film is about the true story of his
own relationship with a girl. I would recommend this film to people who
have experienced a long distant relationship and to teenage/young adult
audiences. This film is the Winner of the U.S. Dramatic Competition
Grand Jury Prize at the 2011 Sundance Film Festival. I think it
deserved this prize. This film made me feel all sorts of different
emotions. This film really is a beautiful story and I am excited to see
it coming out in theaters.
<|_=00=_|>
I am still trying to play catch up with my reviews from this year's
past Toronto International Film Festival, but have found myself at a
total loss for words when I try to write out my thoughts on Like Crazy.
It was a movie I was excited to see ever since I heard the buzz at
Sundance, and one I had high hopes for. Sure enough, I was left reeling
after my screening, choking back the desire to weep for Jacob (Anton
Yelchin) and Anna (Felicity Jones), a couple so deeply and madly in
love who are held back from being together because of immigration laws.
It is one of the most emotional experiences I have had at the movies in
ages, and one that is not bound to leave me any time soon.

Like Crazy is a bit unconventional when compared to other romantic
dramas. Instead of seeing the whole story of Jacob and Anna's romance
from the beginning, co-writer/director Drake Doremus only gives us
moments, glimpses and mere blips along the way. He frames it in a
nostalgic sense, as if the pair is reminiscing about their favourite or
most important memories years later. We are not privy to their most
personal moments like their first kiss or their first sexual encounter.
But we are allowed to see how they lived their lives together, how they
live them apart, and how they intersect and meet up with each other
over a five year period. Doremus never gives us the full picture of
what has and has not happened; he merely offers only fragments of these
characters' lives. And at just under 90-minutes, there are only so many
fragments that can be offered. This may infuriate some viewers, but it
provides for a captivating experience that feels more authentic and
genuine than most romances that have come before it. 

What is also unique is how Doremus films this heartbreaking romance. He
uses many intimate and candid close-ups to help convey the joy and
anguish in our couple's faces. He never shies away from allowing
Yelchin and Jones to reveal their emotions, hovering uncomfortably on
their tear soaked faces more often than you may imagine. He also
employs the use of the shaky cam style of filmmaking, effectively
furthering the notion of the film being told from a nostalgic
point-of-view. In some sense, it almost looks as if someone is trying
to keep up and capture these moments as they happen. It borders on
resembling cinéma vérité, but not quite as pronounced or blatant.
Doremus maintains a dreamlike, hazy quality to the earlier scenes, and
then brings in a grittier, starker tone to the later scenes. It makes
for an interesting viewing experience, because as the actions are
toying with your emotions, so too is the look and appearance of the
film. 

Yelchin and Jones are simply above and beyond fantastic in their roles.
While Yelchin proves he is a talent to continue to watch, Jones is
quite simply a breakthrough. Together or apart, both actors breathe
life into their characters, allowing them a depth that transcends
everything Doremus allows the audience to see. We only get hints at
things, but their performances make us feel like we know everything
there is to know about them. These characters are very lived in, and
feel incredibly natural and real from the moment Anna walks into
Jacob's life, until the end credits roll. You feel their every pain,
their every heartache, their every joy and their every sorrow. Their
chemistry practically smoulders on-screen, making their devastating
romance that much harder to take in. By the end of the film, you feel
like you really know this couple on a level where they could actually
exist. The power and strength of both of their performances is simply
unfathomable and is something that cannot be easily replicated. 

Supporting turns from Alex Kingston and Oliver Muirhead as Anna's
parents, Charlie Bewley and an especially low-key Jennifer Lawrence are
all very well done. I will not reveal how Bewley and Lawrence factor
into the story, but suffice to say, they help pull some incredibly
emotional gut punches along the way. None of these characters are
particularly well developed, but then, the film's pacing and structure
never affords them any chance for an immense amount of depth. But it
does give them the chance to shine in a few brief moments, as well as
work off of Yelchin and Jones increasingly well. Both actors easily
overshadow everyone they appear beside at all times, but nonetheless,
these supporting players help maintain the realism the film strives
for, and help even further to move the film ahead through some of its
more twisty scenes. 

I keep struggling to come up with more words and ideas to further
describe how exceptional Like Crazy is, but there are not enough
phrases to truly explain it. It is quite simply, the kind of
emotionally resonant film that does not comes around nearly enough.
Anyone who has ever been in love or who has suffered the unbearable
pain of heartbreak will find a bit of themselves in these characters.
The indie nature of the film may steer viewers away, but it only helps
to preserve the story and the tone. While it can be incredibly
devastating to watch, Like Crazy is equally just as deeply romantic.
You may need to find time to prepare yourself before you watch it, but
you will not regret the decision.

9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
As the movie's title suggest, I truly wanted to fall in crazy love with
"Like Crazy". By the end, I instead just gave it a pat on the shoulder
and became more interested in what the stars and director would be
doing after the movie than in the film that just screened. In a movie
about the complications that ensue when an American guy named Jacob and
a British girl named Anna meet in college, fall in love and then
eventually are separated when the latter is denied entry back into the
US after overstaying her visa, it's never as compelling as it very well
should have been.

"Like Crazy", a big hit at the Sundance film festival, is well-made and
has some scenes of heartbreaking immediacy that give it considerable
promise. Unfortunately it only shines through it's individual moments,
but as a whole it lacks a certain emotional center as the main romantic
pairing, played by Felicity Jones and Anton Yelchin, is just not
convincing.

Not for lack of trying. Director Drake Doremus has certainly made a
lovely film out of a very small budget, and again proves (after his
first film Douchebag) that he has a way of coaxing some nuanced
performances out of familiar character archetypes. It's refreshing to
see a movie where people don't always know the perfect thing to say and
end up saying what they actually feel, or feeling unable to say
anything at all. And his understated mis-en-scene and on-the-cheap
cinematography is quite impressive, bringing a very cinematic
atmosphere to "Like Crazy" despite the film's modest means.

For the central pairing, Jones (a distinctly lovely actress with a
remarkably subtle face and physical acting style) in particular brings
a fascinating duality to her character of Anna: she can feel both warm
and reserved, naive but very intelligent and observant. Jones slowly
melds what could initially seem like a contradiction into a very real,
imperfect human character that you can't quite understand but you can
feel remarkably close to, and it's easy to see how someone could be
very drawn to her. Anton Yelchin, as Jacob, has the much harder task:
his Jacob has an almost too-passive interest in this love affair, but
while the character on the page might be too much of a cipher, Yelchin
has a clever acting style that suggests there's more to Jacob than
meets the eye. 

And there's no questioning that "Like Crazy" is a consistiently
engaging and intriguing experience. There's just a big problem when the
central romance in an in-and-out-of-love story is the weakest part of
film. Their relationship ultimately feels completely tied to plot, with
no real sense that it would exist off camera. We become interested in
Jacob and Anna individually, but never as a couple.

Jacob seems rather unwilling to uproot his life to be with her, or even
borrow money from her parents so he can stay the post-graduation summer
in England, and it is a bit baffling to wonder how someone as smart (or
supposedly smart) as Anna would be willing to overlook his slowly
growing indifference and find out far too late that their romance is
dying. 

There's a bit of suspense later on, as both Jacob and Anna get
romantically tempted by someone close to them (by Jennifer Lawerence
and Charlie Bewley, respectively), but that plot devolpment ultimately
feels as superficial and mechanical as the movie's main immigration
predicament. It's more an affirtmation of Lawrence's considerable
talents as an actress that she takes a role as contrived as this and
ends up making the audience truly feel her heartbreak. Though it's a
big problem when we're more torn up over the affair rather than the
movie's main romance. 

It's not that there isn't a sense of real care and affection between
Jacob and Anna, but the movie just doesn't take enough time to let us
figure out exactly what exists between the two. It seems like while
Anna may be in crazy stupid love, Jacob seems to see it as a passionate
summer fling but nothing to change his life for. You end up wishing
they would just move on and live their lives rather than root for them
to make it through their immigration-complicated struggle, as the
feelings just do not seem to be reciprocated. The disintegration of
their relationship feels more expected and, frankly, welcome than it is
heartbreaking.

Perhaps what's hindering the central romance is that the movie is far
too hurried and uneven that it doesn't really have time to show a
substantive, organic growth of Anna and Jacob's relationship. The early
scenes of Jacob and Anna's romance are far too brief (with an excessive
fondness of montages and quick scene cuts) and far too much screen time
is spent after Anna's banned from the US that "Crazy" never really has
time to breathe. There's never any time to truly reveal what would make
these two would-be romantics not only connect but fall passionately in
love with each other. Surely it's more than a mutual love for Paul
Simon's "Graceland" or rides in go-karts (yep, that's in the movie
too).

Perhaps it's a compliment to say that the film should've been a bit
longer, but it also means we're left needing more. The movie does have
a potentially terrific ending, but too bad the charming but uncogent
scenes before make it an afterthought rather than something more potent
and emotional. That makes the whole experience just all the more
tantalizing and disappointing. We haven't fallen in love with "Like
Crazy", we're just enamored with what could've been.
<|_=00=_|>
"Like Crazy" was my favorite movie at the Sundance Film Festival this
year. It is a love story that I think many people can relate to. (I
LOVE Arthur Hiller's "Love Story" and can relate to much of it,
although most relationships don't end so tragically.)

I'm guessing that many of the people that didn't enjoy "Like Crazy"
never experienced the beauty of young love, or the heartache it causes
when you're forced into a long distance relationship. Or maybe they
didn't like it because they only enjoy movies with cars exploding and
lots of automatic gunfire. Not that there's anything wrong with that,
but at least fess up in your reviews and say you'd rather be watching
an action flick. 

If you're not in the above categories, I recommend watching this film
with your significant other. All of the actors are a delight to watch;
they are natural and absolutely in the moment - no forced acting
whatsoever. According to the director, they had a very limited script,
basically just situations for each scene; so they used intuition with
their characters and the dialogue. It's been a long time since I've
seen a film with such real chemistry between characters, but this one
has it.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't let it's indie roots fool you. Like Crazy is a nostalgic love
story of people who know what they want but don't know how to get it.

The acting is superb. Yelchin and Jones have chemistry and they play it
across the board. You will smile, laugh, cry, and hold your breath as
these two characters waltz in and out of each others' lives. Jennifer
Lawrence and Charlie Bewley also deliver great performances.

The thing that sets Like Crazy apart is the fact that it doesn't try to
be anything than an honest love story. It doesn't play up stereotypes.
It doesn't beat out the indie clichés. The dialogue is naturally paced
and feels richly authentic. The subtext is dramatic.

This film is worth every dollar and dime in my mind. If you get the
chance, go see it. Take friends who want to share the fun of a good
film.

Like Crazy is a fantastic watch and a fresh take on everything you
thought you knew about indie romance.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a love story that was quite interesting to me, because the
parts that didn't work were the parts dealing with the actual love.
Felicity Jones and Anton Yelchin were both excellent on their own,
burning with pain while trying to move on with their life and just
exist with this hole inside of them. However it was when they were
together that the film lost it's appeal for me. I couldn't feel any
chemistry between them, so I had no stake in a large majority of it
because I didn't understand why they wanted to be together. Even with
their first meeting they seemed so dour together, I never once felt any
genuine love there.

The conversations between them were good and honest, albeit typical,
and the fact that they improvised a lot of their dialogue makes it more
impressive. Unfortunately the premise hinges on an event that I
couldn't realistically buy for a second so any sadness the characters
felt didn't have enough of an impact on me because there was always
this looming anger towards them for being so dumb and getting
themselves in this situation. The ending is a smart move, but it's also
a pretty straight Graduate rip-off, so I can't commend it too much.

I'm harping a lot on the things that I didn't like about the film, but
I think ultimately there were more positives than negatives for me. The
actors really shined individually, even if they didn't sell the core
relationship for me, and quite a few of their separate scenes gave me
an emotional reaction, albeit not to the extreme that they should have
hit me. So I'm pretty lukewarm on it overall, but I at least admired
the acting.
<|_=00=_|>
Anna (Felicity Jones) and Jacob (Anton Yelchin) are in love with each
like crazy. Hence the title, "Like Crazy". They are in, or want to be
in, a grown-up relationship  one where they act like adults and are
just a part of each other's lives. But they met each other at college
and one stupid idea forces them to make grown-up decisions that will
affect the rest of their lives quicker than they would have liked.

"Like Crazy" is just about their relationship. We watch as they fall in
love, grow apart, find a middle road, and then try and pick an extreme.
Anna is a writer and Jacob is a furniture constructor. But their lives
are just so inconsequential to the film which is the way it has to be
when it is only about their relationship.

The film is minimal in story, in characters, in budget, and in
production. And that's what makes it so sweet. Made for only $250,000
and edited in the director's bedroom, it's a story and film of passion.

I found it to be very similar to "Blue Valentine" (2010), but perhaps
not as impactful  at least to me. Both played to rave reviews at
Sundance, last year "Blue" picked up the Grand Jury Prize nomination,
this year "Crazy" got the Jury win for both director Drake Doremus and
actress Felicity Jones.

I first saw Felicity Jones last year in "Cemetery Junction" (2010). She
played this beautifully innocent girl in a town where innocence just
doesn't really exist. In "Like Crazy" she plays a beautiful, adult-like
young woman growing up in a world of love but learns that she might not
know what love is after all.
<|_=00=_|>
It's so refreshing to see that really good movies can still be made
once in a while. The Philadelphia Film Festival began this past week
and chose a great movie to open with: Like Crazy. It won the Grand Jury
Prize for best film at the prestigious Sundance Film Festival, and
deservedly so. It stars Anton Yelchin, one of those names you may not
know but whose face you've probably seen before. He plays Jacob. The
other star of the film is Felicity Jones, who won't have as
recognizable of a face as she has mainly made movies only in England.
She plays Anna. Jacob and Anna meet early in the film while attending
the same college. There's an immediate attraction and they instantly
hit it off. It's not long before we see how madly in love they fall for
each other. It's the kind of love that most people only see in movies
and never get to experience for themselves. In fact, they seem so in
love and happy together at such an early stage of the film that you
wonder where the movie is going from there. Well of course nothing's
ever as perfect as it seems, and a big hurdle comes along that stands
in their way of complete happiness. Anna is not an American citizen
after all. She was attending college in the U.S. but still lives in
England. So when she overstays her visa, she finds herself banned from
the country. Why did she overstay her welcome? She did it to be with
Jacob, of course. When someone is truly in love, they will often do
anything they can to be with that person; but they sometimes forget
about the consequences of those actions. At this point, the two
lovebirds must decide on whether to maintain the new long distance
relationship. It's not just any long distance relationship of course,
it's an overseas relationship. That's a situation which is pretty tough
for just about any couple to pull off. So the movie then shifts its
tone to one of compromise and struggle. How much can one person
sacrifice for the other? Can they somehow lift the ban, or will Jacob
have to move to England thus leaving his current job in the U.S.? Is it
all even worth it after it's all said and done? Many questions arise,
not to mention the possibility of finding new love in their own
respectable countries with someone else. It's a great film dealing with
human emotions and how far we will go for another person. The two
actors pour their hearts out on screen and it can be mesmerizing at
times. Like Crazy opens nationwide on October 28. It's an independent
film though so it will surely be shown in limited release, but find it
if you can.
<|_=00=_|>
I was immediately intrigued by the previews of this film, though sadly
there was no one sappy enough to drag with me, so I had to wait for
Netflix.

I've seen this film twice now, and it has left me so..... not anything.

I wanted to love this film. I wanted to "be totally amazed and cry
every single time I saw it because I was going to watch it everyday"
love this film. But I couldn't.

I think in the end, I couldn't buy into the idea that Anna and Jacob
were madly in love before they got separated. Anna was in love, sure.
But Jacob? Maybe he's just reserved, but it never seemed like he was
really all the way into it. And without that, the whole premise of the
movie fails. He seems to really be into his next girlfriend, Sam,
perhaps even more so than Anna, and so we never understand why he can't
let go of Anna, because he never seemed invested in the first place.

The movie really sank or swam with Jacob. I don't know if it was the
actor, who otherwise delivers a great performance, or the "script", but
he was so very enigmatic that none of the rest of the movie made any
sense. I never felt sold on his love for Anna, I just felt like I was
willing to assume he did because Anna loved him so much. And there were
definitely actions he took later on to show his love, but it seemed
more of a plot twist than genuine love.

It's been said, and should be said again, that the performances were
excellent. This was a first-rate cast who all have bright futures ahead
of them. But without feeling committed to these two from the beginning,
the rest of the movie is just, well, kind of pointless.

The film was shot showing snippets of characters' interactions with
each other - Anna & Jacob with each other, each with their respective
later loves - which was an interesting style and genuinely effective
later on, but I think we needed to be hit over the head with Anna &
Jacob at the beginning, instead of just a few cutesy scenes. But as is,
you're left feeling like you can't root for these two if you don't know
why you care about them (as a couple) in the first place. And that,
while maybe the only flaw of the movie, was still fatal to my love for
it.
