
Triple 9 is a dark and gloomy story, which feels strongly inspired by
Michael Mann's Heat. Unlike Heat, the film/script doesn't give the
characters enough substance to make us care for their outcome in the
film. The ordeals of the characters came and went without me feeling
any real emotions towards any of them.

This isn't a bad movie but it's not brilliant. There are a few of gun
battle/action periods that are really well shot and entertaining enough
to keep you interested in the film as a whole. It's not too predictable
but there are not enough shocks or tense moments that you would expect
from a thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie with high expectations, but alas, I was let
down. Good actors and a plausible story, but inevitably Triple 9 fails
to deliver. There are no characters I could really root for with the
possible exception of Casey Affleck (just a little). I found myself
yawning several times throughout - it just didn't hold my interest. No
real back story so it's hard to fathom what these characters are really
all about. Some sexy girls, guys with tattoos and attitude and bad
cops. The bank robbery at the beginning was the most exciting part and
it's downhill from there. Somehow I didn't buy Kate Winslet as a
badass. The best line in the film was Woody Harrelson's reference to
the Kosher Nostra - that actually got a few laughs. Don't say you
weren't warned.
<|_=00=_|>
I am at a split when it comes to 'Triple 9'. On one end, there were few
moments where I did enjoy the film. The actors are powerhouses and did
what they could with the material given to them. Some plot points were
interesting to me and had my attention and lastly, I am sure there is a
certain symbolism behind the constant use of the color red that is
shown in a high majority of scenes. On the other end, however, there
was way too much I did not enjoy. From start to finish, I hardly
understood any of the characters connections to anyone. They are
explained in as little detail as possible. It just was not my cup of
tea as far as understanding who the characters were and what was their
purpose. Kate Winslet was absolutely atrocious to me. From her
seemingly forced role to her forgetful "Russian accent" as she seemed
to forget she was Russian at times speaking perfect English and
bouncing back to an "accent". The fan- favorite star power of Norman
Reedus, Aaron Paul, Chiwetel Ejiofor and company was no where near
enough to save this movie and draw enough of a crowd to make this movie
even mistakenly good. Too many negatives and not enough positives. This
movie is forgetful to me and nothing special. A few moments do not make
up for a near two hours of confusion and plot holes.
<|_=00=_|>
Worth a look if you like urban action. There's a lot of action. The
good guys and bad guys are really blurred but that's a modern flick for
you. The police gang unit team line up to go after a gang member in
group housing, up stairs and into the apartment was legendary. Great
camera work. You felt like you were lined up with them. Worth the price
of admission. After viewing, very few audience members would want to A:
Become a police officer in Atlanta, B: Be tasked with arresting a gang
member who knows you're coming. Adrenaline time. That's the good, along
with plenty of recognizable actors doing representative jobs with what
they have to work with. Now for the Not as Good: The plot is there but
it is ephemeral. You can kind of follow it but the exposition makes you
strain for it. I'd like to say that's on purpose to add an element of
mystery but I'm not real sure that's so. Not a thinking person's movie.
I've seen worse plots but the bones don't hold up the body to make it
recognizable enough, at least for me. By the end you can figure it all
out but it isn't built up a block at a time. I enjoyed it and gave it a
7 but it's about a 7.5. Maybe a triple 7?
<|_=00=_|>
Since The Proposition was unleashed on audiences back in 2005, Aussie
filmmaker John Hillcoat has made a name for himself as an
uncompromising and ambitious auteur, bringing together A-list casts for
bleak and uneasy thrillers. His latest Hollywood effort  following The
Road and Lawless  dives into the grubby underground of Atlanta, where
corrupt cops, ruthless bank robbers and Russian mobsters are often one
and the same. A nice world this ain't. There's an unrelenting grimness
to this noir-ish street saga that generates the desired mood, and the
high level of dread permeating throughout proceedings maintains tension
despite a predictably death-happy final act. Yet Hillcoat struggles to
fully wrangle Matt Cook's twisty-turny screenplay; what could've been
an intriguing web of lies, double-crosses and daring crimes becomes a
less believable concoction of coincidences, plot contrivances and
dubious character choices. Taking a leaflet out of Michael Mann's book
of realistic action, the handful of set pieces are executed with flair,
precision and unwavering violence, with an extended gun fight at the
halfway point harking back to Mann's own Heat (albeit without topping
it). Unfortunately the film is also let down by its vast array of
players. Other than Casey Affleck's honest but worn-down cop, everyone
else is evil and unpleasant to varying degrees  and rarely more than a
caricature  making it hard to care about their fates. Hillcoat's
menacing tone and visual ferocity ensure a certain level of interest
and entertainment, but narrative and character weaknesses stop Triple 9
from being essential viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
The cast for this film really made me want to see this film but
unfortunately this film fails to deliver. The premise of this film sees
a group of bank robbers trying to make there last score with a unique
method. Chiwetel ejiofor plays the main robber and he is a great actor.
He does the best job possible in this role its just that his character
is so unlikeable that you end up not caring about him. Casey Affleck
plays the good cop in this film and He does a really good job in the
role and probably gives the best performance in the film. Another good
performance is by woody harrelson who plays the cop going after the
crew and he gives a charismatic performance. Anthony Mackie gave some
humanity to his character which made him the most likable of the
crooks. Also aaron paul had an interesting role in the film that I kind
of wished had been fleshed out a little more. The story is pretty by
the numbers with not much new. There are some good relationships
developed but overall pretty basic. Thev script was very dull and
boring with not much going on either dramatically or humour wise. The
style had some really good suspense to it that had me on the edge of my
seat. But the film is a drag at times and goes on for a bit too long.
Overall this is a really average movie that I wouldn't say is worth
seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
A crew comprising bent cops and crooks are forced into carrying out a
complex heist for Russian gangsters in order to get paid.

My synopsis is skeletal: it was either that, or go into great detail
about a plot which is superficially complex by virtue of the number of
different groups and subgroups involved, with crossover between them.
This apparent complexity hides a relatively straightforward story
which, itself, is cluttered up with texture and detail which obscures
the main plot line (there is an extended sequence involving the graphic
aftermath of a gangland slaying, the purpose of which is to illustrate
relationships between certain of the characters and introduce a couple
of minor characters who have important actions later, but this scene is
given such detailed attention that one is misled into believing that it
has greater plot relevance than is actually the case).

A good and powerful cast work hard to bring life to a thriller which, I
think, has rather less to it than meets the eye. Kate Winslet impresses
by looking and sounding nothing like Kate Winslet, and pretty nearly
everyone in this gives a good performance.

But I was left puzzled at the end because I never felt the film had a
sense of purpose to it  the events happened and each character
suffered a particular fate and then it ended. Yes, I know you can say
that about most films, but the stakes in this were so high that I was
expecting a resolution to the film which meant more.
<|_=00=_|>
went to this movie was excited by the trailer and boy was I wrong. the
original story that the talented cast signed up for was awesome I
assume something then happened as this movie was a jangled mess and
almost was a bipolar experience. there was too many subplots too little
time for talents like woody harrelson and kate winslett instead of a
quality crime drama we were exposed to a plot that veered all over the
place. the premise of crimes being done by cops was intriguing but junk
like the subplot of the child , Russian mob was just way out there.
just a waste of time and this movie could be a easy front runner for a
raspberry award.
<|_=00=_|>
The red band trailer is amazing; When I first saw that trailer, I was
game for an intense action thriller (Training Day on crack), however,
what I got was...

Positives:

#1. A through Z (all across the board), all of the actors in this movie
delivered convincing performances

#2. The opening robbery scene is intense and engaging throughout

#3. You know why some of the characters are doing the things that
they're doing. Nothing is really explained in full context during the
movie; How did some of these characters get involved with the mob?
However, I did understand a majority of the characters motivations.
When things happened, the characters reacted (no matter how
irrational), and I understood where they were coming from.

#4. The main crew felt like a close family. We (as an audience) didn't
get to spend a lot of time with most of the characters, but during
certain scenes you could feel that they were all close to one other.

#5. Some deaths linger on. A character may die, you really don't get to
know them, but the characters won't let you forget who died.

#6. Information is continuously pounded into your brain throughout. I
had to remember names, events, and situations. All of the information
may make some feel exhausted, but I found it exhilarating.

#7. There will be blood, death, and brutality. This movie definitely
depicts realistic violence.

Negatives:

#1. I didn't care who lived or who died; The characters don't let you
forget, but if I can't build any sort of relationship with the
character, than why would I care.

#2. The movie does continuously pound information into your head (which
I did like), but it ultimately goes nowhere. By the end of the movie...
just throw the info out the window because it ultimately means nothing
(WTF!)

#3. Unfortunately, this movie uses a "MacGuffin" device to further its
already absurd plot.

#4. The movie starts in a good place, it feeds us supposedly promising
information, it goes down a promising path, and than at the end... what
the hell! There's no pay off. There's no satisfaction to be had here.
By the end of it all, you finally realize that none of that previous
crab really matters... at least that's how I felt anyway.

#5. This is a by the numbers movie. I wouldn't say that it's totally
predicable, but there isn't anything here that you haven't already
seen.

I really was enjoying this movie from the start, through the middle ( a
little), and than the ending happened. Some moments are intense, others
are dumb, some make no logical sense, and than the ending is just a
complete throwaway.

This movie is no Training Day on crack... WTF!... I really had high
hopes for this movie. Maybe My exceptions where to high. By the way,
everything is spoiled for you if you watch the trailers.

Finale Grade: D+
<|_=00=_|>
This is my review of Triple 9 (spoiler free)

Directed by John Hillcoat

Distributor: Entertainment One.

Cast: Casey Affleck, Anthony Mackie, Academy Award Nominee Chiwetel
Ejiofor*, 2 time Academy Award nominee Woody Harrelson**, Aaron Paul,
Academy Award Winner Kate Winslet***, Norman Reedus.

Plot: A gang of criminals and corrupt cops plan to kill an officer to
pull off the biggest heist yet across the town.

Casey Affleck stars as Chris Allen the nephew of Sergeant Detective
Jeffrey Allen (Harrelson) the cop behind the investigation of catching
the criminals, and figuring out who the corrupt cops are. Terrell
Tompkins (Ejiofor) is the leader of the corrupt cops lead by Irina
Vlaslov (Winslet), Winslet's stand out performance really puts the film
together kind of like in last year's Steve Jobs.

Although this dark and gritty cop thriller was almost never made by
Australian director John Hillcoat (The Proposition, The Road), mainly
because of production problems and loads of actors dropping out. For
example Shia LeBeouf became Charlie Hunnam became Casey Affleck for
Chris Allen, then Michael B. Jordan became Mackie as Marcus Atwood,
Cate Blanchett replaced for Kate Winslet and Christoph Waltz for Woody
Harrelson. 

It's courageous yet patchy in parts but still gets the story through,
but not as good as Dennis Villeneuve's criminally underrated Sicario
(2015) it still is a gripping and action packed adventure. 

These are the reasons why I think this is a must see thriller:

Captivating set-pieces: There are several set-pieces used in the film
one of them even takes the film to the next level. The main set-piece
that will grab your attention is the Ram Raid around the middle of the
film, that is truly an original set-piece that is very gripping.

Strong Cast: The cast really makes this film people like Chiwetel
Ejiofor known 12 Years A Slave, and last years The Martian, Anthony
Mackie plays The Falcon in so many Marvel films, Finally the real
performance comes from Kate Winslet and her very convincing Russian
accent. They make this film a must in my opinion.

Finally with the amazing action and intense set-pieces this film is
like Point Break vs Sicario and is truly a once in a life time thriller
that will have you gripping your seat from start finish. Although it is
not for the faint-hearted. 

Verdict: If you like Se7en and Animal Kingdom and very dark cop
thrillers this is the film for you. 8/10 a must watch.

*Best performance by an Actor in a leading role 12 Years a Slave
(2013), **Best performance by an Actor in a supporting role The
Messenger (2009) & Best Actor in a Leading Role The People vs. Larry
Flynt (1996), ***Best Actress in a Leading Role The Reader (2008).
