
I was supposed to be be seeing either Flight or Argo today, but to my
disappointment I missed both showtimes, and I was in a tight time frame
where I could see anything. So my friend really convinced me to check
this one out. Boy, what a great time it was.

Wreck-It Ralph is really wonderfully created. Its visual design is
brilliant and its action pieces pretty amazing. The world it builds,
and all of the little details from various video games, is pretty
wonderful to look at and experience. Even some characters move in the
precise way they actually do in video games. But what makes this
gloriously colorful spectacle of a world work is the screenplay. The
jokes hit all the right places, the characters are all lively and
written with skill that goes beyond what we have come to expect from a
simple kids' film like this. The few commercials and trailers I saw had
been sure to let audiences know just how "pretty" this film looked, but
what makes it a truly great film is that it has a great story and great
dialogue to back up the visuals. The voice performances are pretty
incredible, and perhaps because I recognized such people like Reily,
Silverman, McBrayer, and Lynch, but even others did wonders with their
characters. 

Overall, the film follows a clear pattern and formula for kids, but the
real surprise is that none of it made me roll my eyes or cringe. It's
incredibly entertaining and enjoyable for anyone. Pretty much
everything is done in a very respectable manner, and the film hits
greatness in the writing, direction, voice performances, and visual
design. The only real flaw in it that I gathered was the inclusion of a
Rihanna song, which really took me out of the world the film created
and kinda put a plaster on it from pop culture. Or maybe it's because I
hate the song... Still, this is another truly great animated film that
does stand out from others this year in its own way, and one that's
admirable and satisfying in all the best ways. I loved it. Highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Disney has made some really good animated movies, but they had never
done a lot of movies that are as bright and original as Wreck-it Ralph,
the new animated film from Disney. The movie centers on Ralph (voiced
by John C. Reilly), the villain in the "Fix-it Felix" arcade game, who
decides to become a hero. Because he doesn't like being a bad guy, he
goes into some of the video games in order to learn what it's like to
become a good guy. He also befriends a character known as Vanellope von
Schweetz (voiced by Sarah Silverman) from a candy-coated racing game
called "Sugar Rush". When Ralph accidentally unleashes a threat in the
arcade, he tries his best to save the day and become a true hero.

I had extremely high expectations for this movie. I had the feeling
that this will turn out to be an excellent animated film. I thought the
premise to this sounded really cool and clever Â– a love letter to video
games. I really love the voice cast.

So, did Wreck-it Ralph met my expectations? Absolutely! This was such a
fun animated movie for all ages, and better than Disney/PIXAR's Brave
(which was also very good).

John C. Reilly delivered a strong performance as the title character,
who wants to make a change in his life, achieve it, and become what he
wants to be. That's what a great movie character is about. Sarah
Silverman provides most of the movie's funny moments as one of the
"Sugar Rush" characters who Ralph befriends, and is a "glitch" (a
character who faults the game). She tries to get Ralph for help to
become a racer once again. Jack McBrayer (from the hit-show, 30 Rock)
has an amusing supporting role as Fix-it Felix, the main hero in the
"Fix-it Felix" arcade game, who sets out to find Ralph and get him back
to where he belongs. Jane Lynch does a great job playing the main
character in a first-person shooter game known as "Hero's Duty", who
tries to find Ralph, alongside Felix.

I didn't see the movie in 3D; which I must say it does look pretty darn
good in 3D, but I decided to stick with the 2D because of the sharp,
pristine screen.

The animation is simply wonderful; the bright colors, the set-ups, the
environments, the characters all look fantastic. At times, the movie is
very gorgeous to look at on the big screen.

The characters in this were likable and funny. It was awesome to see
some video game characters making cameos (like Bowser, Pac-Man, Sonic,
etc.). The story to the movie is well-thought out and genuinely clever.
It's always nice to see something new to the table. I really liked the
themes to the movie: What does it mean to be a true hero? How can the
main character's goal become a success? And so forth.

Generally, movies from Disney and/or PIXAR give a lot heart into their
stories, which makes the tone of the movie become very sweet. Wreck-it
Ralph has enough heart to make it that way. From start to finish, this
movie is a lot of fun, and when families bring their kids to see this
movie, they're going to fall in love with it.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Got to see an advances screening of Wreck-it Ralph today. I had been
waiting for at least a year for this film and it did not disappoint. 

I am a hardcore Disney fanboy and was before I even played my first
video game. But I have to be honest, sometimes Disney doesn't get it.
They see something is trending and an instant money maker and jump head
first even if they don't understand the topic they're tackling. 

So it does make you wonder if they could really do justice to a film
dedicated to something they really don't excel in. Video games are not
Disney's strong suit(except for the rare cases like Kingdom Hearts,
which really only succeeds, because they have little to nothing to do
with the production). Trust me I've played enough cheap marketing/movie
tie in/ buy it for your kid because of the characters on the box Disney
games to know what I'm talking about.

But Wreck-it Ralph nailed it. Start to Finish it is a love letter to
gaming, made by people who understand games(and I highly suspect John
Lasseter's role as Executive Producer greatly contributed to it's
excellence).

It really reminded me of why we love games. It's not the technology or
the graphics or the marketing hype. It's what they make us feel. The
broad range of emotions they extract from us as we immerse ourselves in
their world. The joy of victory, the stinging pain of loss, laughter
and even tears. I felt all of those in this movie. 

The world has become an ugly place and personally, my faith is what
gets me through. But when you experience a game or a movie that takes
you to an imaginative world where anything is possible, things start to
seem a little brighter. Those stacks of paperwork you're facing seem
smaller. The grisly news headlines get a little further away. That's
what art and beauty do. They heal; help us see things in a better
light. And I thank God for them.

I didn't expect for the movie to get me waxing philosophical, but
that's the kind of hairpin I am.

Side notes: I was a little disappointed that they lingered SO long in
one environment and I, frankly, find the crude humor tiresome. I
thought the 3D was excellent, providing a nice immersive depth and
texture without ever seeming gimicky( and I'm not a die hard 3D fan).
Also, be sure to get there in time for the short at the beginning,
Paper Man. Reminded me of classic Disney animated shorts, and that is
not a bad thing.

A few weeks ago I was leaving California Adventure Park and overheard a
little boy talking to his father about Wreck-it Ralph. With the wide
eyed enthusiasm of youth he said to his father, "It's a movie about
video games....who doesn't like that?" Well said, kid, well said.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying this: I am the ideal demographic for this movie.
I am in my early/mid 30s, I grew up with videos games starting with the
ColecoVision 30 years ago, which is, in the movie, when Wreck-It Ralph
was released. I still play games. I have a four-year-old son who plays
games. He knows who Pac-Man, Zangief and Sonic are, and you can bet
that on top of that I know who Sheng Long, Tapper, Q*Bert and Burger
Time are.

That's what makes me nervous about blanketly recommending this movie to
everyone...not just that I'm obviously going to catch more references,
in-jokes and cameos than the average movie goer, but that I'm going to
recognize the archetypes they're playing off of and the mechanics
they're referencing as the stories progresses.

It feels a bit like Mallrats, in that I'm so ideally in the target
demographic for the movie's release that I'm not sure I can accurately
gauge how it will be received by people outside of that demographic.

That said, I don't think you need to be a video game fan to enjoy this
movie. It's a very well crafted movie with characters that are more
Pixar than Disney. I was concerned that this was a "Disney" movie as I
haven't seen a 3D CG "Disney" movie that can hold a candle to the Pixar
and Dreamworks hits that I'm a huge fan of. And yet, for me, this movie
was better than recent Pixar movies and better than Dreamworks movies,
with characters and a story that felt worthy of of the Pixar name.

I even greatly enjoyed the animated short at the beginning. Again,
something I would expect more from a Pixar film than a Disney film. The
whole theater experience for this film was a delight, all the way
through to the very, very brief bonus scene at the end of a credits,
which is something you really, really need to be a gaming nerd to get.
(Gamers who have seen The King of Kong: A Fistful of Quarters will
definitely get it.) I went into this film with high hopes and
expectations, and I was blown away. My wife, who is not a gamer at all,
enjoyed the film, and when my four-year-old son was asked by her what
his favorite part was, he replied, "Um... Every part! I liked the whole
movie!" That he was able to talk to her and I in great detail about the
plot and characters while I was able to appreciate the whole film to
the level I did as an adult speaks volumes to me about how well this
story was told.

If you played in arcades in the 1980s, if the games Q*Bert, Burgertime,
Pac-Man, Street Fighter II and Sonic all mean something to you: You're
enough of a gamer to appreciate all the references. If you have a
youngster who's played video games, they're enough of a gamer to get
the movie. And even if you aren't, while you may not relate to the
subject matter the way I did, you're still in for an enjoyable story,
with great characters, masterfully told.

Highly recommended, and a 10 out of 10 for me, as I expect this will be
on both my son's and my short list of favorite movies for years to
come.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say that I was a bit surprised to see how well this was
thought out, the director and the animators put their hearts and souls
into making this movie with their special effects and amazing plot line
laced with funny humor for both ages (young with the new-gen gaming and
the old with retro-gaming). But not only is it funny, but very well
thought out and well played.

The characters were very well thought out and planned to show how it
would be if a old-styled video game character would do in the
after-hours when no one was around, they opened the door to a untapped
imagination that blew me away. The originality behind the video game
characters brings the term nostalgic to a whole new level.

They also did an amazing job with the little girl named Vanellope and
how her story unfolded, with surprising twists and turns to keep things
rather interesting. Not only did they did a great job on the plot but
also on the aesthetics of visual effects and gestures as well;
Vanellope's character really blossomed because of this (as well as the
other characters too).

Ralph is one of those characters that you kinda hate being around with
and shows that off by his enormous size (and his ape-like hands), he's
a bad guy by code but he shows that when there's a will there's a way
and Ralph eventually figures it out sprinkled with laughs along his
crazy journey to save the day.

An amazing job on the visuals, the story line, the character
development, the overall plot, and most of all is how they managed to
weave all these threads together into a solid movie for everyone. One
of Disney's greatest works to be produced in a rather long time and
really worth seeing again and again.
<|_=00=_|>
Side note: The animated short Paper Man was very good. The animation
was a unique blend of CGI but made to look like hand drawn animation.
The only slight issue I had with it is that the short got crazy at the
end and became unbelievable. Still cute.

Being a gamer, I decided to go to this movie. I knew the movie was
going to be good, but I didn't expect it to be really good. The action,
humor, voice-acting, plot, and animation are all great. Since this
movie is aimed towards gamers, I feel like a lot of the cameos and
jokes are going to fly over most people's heads, such as "All your base
are belong to us" written on a subway wall or "Leroy Jenkins was here".
Thankfully, the movie doesn't rely on cameos to be successful.

The animation in Wreck-It Ralph is very beautiful, and is great at
expressing the video game world. I did not see it in 3D, but just from
watching it in 2D I can tell that this movie would look amazing in 3D.
The animators did really good in this movie because each video game
world looks vastly different from another. Each world feels like an
actual video game that I've played. If there is one problem that I can
pick out in this movie (and many others have noted this as well) is
that the plot focuses on the Sugar Rush world a bit too much. Most of
the other worlds are revealed at the beginning mainly for the sake of
reference, with only a few actually being important.

The humor in Wreck-It Ralph is good because it hits a very large
audience. A lot of the cameos and jokes are related to video games but
there are also a lot of movie references as well, puns, slapstick
jokes, and some crude humor. Some people complained at the crude humor
but honestly it didn't bother me because it was coming from a character
who looks like she is five, so it actually made sense.

The interesting thing about Wreck-It Ralph's plot is that it has very
little to do with an external conflict, but more with an internal one
(which is a pun in itself because they are inside of video games).
There is a main bad guy, and a huge disaster, and all of these other
conflicts but these elements are back seat to the character
development. I thought it was neat since most animated movies do the
opposite. The voices for all of the characters were really well done.
There weren't any annoying characters which adds to the movie. Another
nice thing about the plot is that main bad guy is not revealed until
the very end of the movie which focuses the plot on the characters, not
the action or the villain.

Overall a really great movie. Spectacular animation, great voice work,
emotional and even touching at times, and overall humorous. While the
Sugar Rush world might get slightly stale after awhile, it is still
excellent movie. Gamers, this goes to you, WATCH THIS MOVIE!
<|_=00=_|>
It's all fun and games at Litwak's Fun Center, until someone gets hurt.
While this clichÃ©'d line seems to reflect the simple plot in most
movies (while the moral outcome does, too), the setting makes Wreck-it
Ralph a wonderful, refreshing, and unique pleasure. Inside a family
arcade, all the game characters (both old and new) are real, and travel
among the other games when the doors have locked. Ralph, from Fix-it
Felix Jr., desperately wished to be a good guy, and be rewarded, so he
sets off in search of a medal. By doing this, he sets off a chain of
events that puts multiple games at risk, and unveils a hidden threat.

Disney has made this film equally accessible by both parents and
children, and I find that wondrous. At times, Vanellope sounded quite
mature, and at others, just like a tod. Soon, kids will squeal in
excitement when they find a Fix-it Felix Jr. game, along with other
last-gen arcade delights. In this way, the film has rendered itself
timeless, if only in that small way. Although it doesn't feature many
of the games themselves, you are able to see many characters, including
retired ones.

Being inside a game world gave the artists a great deal of freedom, but
they didn't waste it. At every new turn, another extremely creative
point would grab your attention, and I'm sure I missed many (which
would enhance a second viewing). Another big enhancement is the 3D
atmosphere. I doubted I would ever say this, but I urge you to see this
in 3D, or turn around and go home. Because of all the pixel-related
artwork, and 3D modeling, it is natural to have such a dimension added
on. It's the perfect film to have it for!

Now, for all the extra material surrounding the movie. Similar to
Pixar, Disney has included an animated short right before, called "The
Paperman". It doesn't feature any voice acting, but it's hilarious, and
very well-made. I am sure you'll enjoy it. Second, the end credits are
worth watching through, but not because there's an extra scene (there
isn't one). It's only worth it for the visuals during the credits
themselves, in 3D.

In conclusion, Wreck-it Ralph is family-safe, and highly enjoyable. See
it in 3D as soon as you can!
<|_=00=_|>
While there are many that would argue differently, 2012 has been a
relatively good year for animation. With Brave, Pirates! Band of
Misfits and Frankenweenie (among others), there's been plenty of
appealing films for all ages. And while Wreck-It Ralph looked somewhat
less promising than the others in my eyes, it ended up being an
absolute joy and one of the best of 2012. 

Set in the video game world, Wreck-It Ralph is a typical arcade villain
who's tired of being bad. In an attempt to start a new life, Ralph
"game jumps" to a game called Hero's Duty, and through a chaotic series
of events, ends up in a kart racing game called Sugar Rush. In this
Candy Land of video games, Ralph meets a little girl named Vanellope
whom is determined to be accepted among the residents of Sugar Rush by
winning a kart race against them. 

Wreck-It Ralph is a video game movie, and while video game oriented
films have a reputation for being relatively awful, Wreck-It Ralph
exceeds any pre-expectations that one may have as a result. Perhaps
part of Wreck-It Ralph's success comes from the fact that it adapts the
video game world, as opposed to adapting an individual video game. 

Gamers will get the most out of Wreck-It Ralph. A minute rarely goes by
without some reference to some video game, video game character or
video game clichÃ©. It effectively satires everything that's good and
bad about video games in a way that won't insult gamers, but rather
leaving them chuckling as they nod in acknowledgement. 

Bowser, Sonic the Hedgehog, Q*Bert, Pac Man, Dig Dug and dozens of
other make cameo appearances (some even have speaking roles). Mario
didn't make it, though he is briefly mentioned once. 

But fear not, Wreck-It Ralph won't only appeal to gamers. Even those
who aren't familiar with the wonderful world of video games will find
much humor. Wreck-It Ralph has plenty of humor in the less video game
oriented field, though many of the best bits come from the various
video game references and satire humor. 

As is typical for a Disney film, Wreck-It Ralph is filled with
memorable characters. The title character, Ralph, while still a bit on
the generic side, is an easy to like protagonist. Vanellope is a
sarcastic little girl, who is actually much less annoying than one
might initially expect (she actually sort of grows on you). Other
characters are more entertaining. Fix-It Felix Jr. is the
goodie-two-shoes of this movie, while Sergeant Jean Calhoun is a
no-nonsense space commander. The most memorable character, however, is
King Candy, who's the ridiculously over the top and punn-y leader of
Sugar Rush (though he may feel a bit too familiar to the Mad Hatter for
some). 

Perhaps what's most surprising about Wreck-It Ralph is how moving it
is. It's initial attempts at poignancy may seem a bit clumsy and
predictable at first, but it quickly develops into something much more
satisfying, if far from the elegance of Pixar. 

The animation is incredible. From the purposely stiff animation in
Wreck-It Ralph's game, to the hyper realistic looking Hero's Duty, to
the colorful Sugar Rush, Wreck-It Ralph is the most visually superb
computer animated film of the year. A vast array of blink-and-then-
you'll-miss-it sight gags that is practically begging for repeat
viewings. 

Cast members include John C. Reily, Sarah Silverman, Jack McBrayer, and
Jane Lynch among others. Each voice actor blends beautifully with their
character, though outside of Alan Tudyk (the voice of King Candy),
there aren't any standouts. 

The score by Henry Jackman captures the video game world perfectly.
Mixing electronic instruments and orchestra intelligently, Jackman
provides an energetic score for Wreck-It Ralph. The heavy use of
electric guitar in the Hero's Duty world is purposely overdone to
humorous effect, and the theme for the Sugar Rush races is joyfully
nostalgic and sounds just like a tune you might listen to in a Mario
Kart game. Still, during some of the more serious (and thankfully rare)
moments, the score becomes rather generic, and less memorable than the
other tracks. 

In a film that does so much right, it feels almost overly hypocritical
to point out some of things that Wreck-It Ralph does wrong, but they
should be mentioned. 

Wreck-It Ralph often suffers from being too familiar. Taking bits and
pieces from Alice in Wonderland, Monsters Inc., Toy Story, Despicable
Me, and various others, Wreck-It Ralph occasionally feels a bit
recycled. Still, there's so much of Wreck-It Ralph that's clever and
original, this can be overlooked. 

What CAN'T be overlooked, however, is the potty humor. Wreck-It Ralph
is not stuffed with crude humor, but the almost constant smile on my
face changed into a frown during these instances. The potty humor is
not necessary, and only makes the film feel more childish than it
should. It surely won't score points with parents who will find this to
be the only questionable content in an otherwise family-friendly film. 

While familiar elements, occasional potty humor and sometimes overly
sappy emotion fills the screen, Wreck-It Ralph is an absolutely
outrageous film. Consistently clever, visually enchanting, and
extremely memorable while even delivering a twist or two, Wreck-It
Ralph is a must-see for gamers and adults that grew up with these
games. Wreck-It Ralph is unlikely to be considered one of Disney's best
films, but it's certainly one of their funniest. 

Note: Wreck-It Ralph is preceded by a short called Paperman that is
cute and charming, if not quite groundbreaking.
<|_=00=_|>
Wreck-It Ralph imagines a world where arcade game characters have their
own lives. It's like a video game version of Toy Story and Who Framed
Roger Rabbit, but this one is much more appealing to the viewers. As
expected, it has an endless amount of enjoyment, a big scale of
adventure, and really fun characters. The filmmakers poured their love
of these games to the film thus made this a wonderful nostalgic
delight.

The story doesn't sound quite fresh at some point, especially for an
animated film, but the main attraction here is the theme. It sets in a
magnificent arcade world. It's fun when it captures the prominent video
game mannerism like the freezy movements in retro games, an out of
control game character walking against the wall in 3D games, and the
glitching. It's easy to know what the central games are inspired from.
Many would root for the cameos of iconic game characters and each of
their appearance are splendid. The movie is filled with action set
pieces that are undeniably exciting. By its grand scale and references,
the experience is gloriously extraordinary.

Another charms of the film is the characters. We don't usually see
films with well developed characters in blockbusters these days but
this one has plenty of it. They all have their own pathos, but in a
comical way. And the voice performances were great. John C. Reily gives
Ralph an acceptably nice personality. Sarah Silverman makes Vanellope
adorable enough. Jack McBrayer is quite charming as the always positive
Fix-It Felix Jr. and Alan Tudyk is delightful as the goofy King Candy.

The animation is wonderful. Like what I said, they really capture the
elements of every video game. The game "Sugar Rush" has the most
colorful(and product placed) visuals of the film. The rest is
thoroughly inspired. 3D is usually unnecessary but here is just fine.
It's kind of worth it by its large adventures. There is no scene after
the credits but it's better to stay during it to listen to the theme
songs of "Sugar Rush" and "Fix-It Felix Jr.".

There isn't much groundbreaking about Wreck-It Ralph but what makes
this special is its tribute to the classic video games. It also serves
an over the top fun and sweetness(no Sugar Rush pun intended). It's so
fun, it's easy to ignore its little flaws. There are some things that
could have been better, but the film is already good enough. To those
who love playing video-games will enjoy this a lot more. It's just full
of life and nostalgia. Wreck-It Ralph is a great virtual ride!
<|_=00=_|>
The Short: Wreck-It Ralph is a classic. From the slick animation, the
great sense of humor, nostalgia inducing references and cameos, and the
surprisingly adept and emotional story, Disney's Wreck-it Ralph is the
best animated comedy since Tangled, and one of Disney's best animated
films ever crafted.

Street Fighter, Pac-Man, Q-bert; widely known and considered classic
games. But a "new challenger has entered the ring" in the form of old
school, Donkey Kong inspired retro arcade game, Wreck-it Ralph. Follow
the misadventures of Wreck-it Ralph, voiced by John C. Reilly, as he
attempts to become a hero by jumping though various video games. I
don't want to spoil any of the plot, but it is incredibly well told and
is quite surprising in the end. It has that classic Disney emotion, but
with a most unique "video game-y" twist. In the end, Wreck-it Ralph
teaches some great lessons, but it is also neither mundane nor
juvenile, and that's why it's a winner. 

The cast here couldn't fit the characters better. John C. Reilly as the
big guy Wreck-it Ralph, Sarah Silverman as the spirited and
surprisingly funny Vanellope von Schweetz, Jane Lynch as the stoic and
hilarious Sergeant Calhoun, and Jack McBrayer as the lovable and yet
again laugh- out-loud Fix-it Felix Junior. The movie is absolutely
hilarious; the performances from all of the actors fit their roles
perfectly and couldn't be funnier. They couldn't have picked a better
voice cast, honestly to goodness. 

The animation continues the high pedigree that Disney has become famous
for. Its bright and lively action is wonderful to watch, and combined
with great facial animations make for a great and emotional experience.
But the winner here is the way that they have adapted the old- school
style of video game animation into the film itself. You'll know what I
mean when you see the movie. It makes for a truly unique, one of a kind
experience! Sony's 4K presentation is crisp and vibrant.

The thing to understand though is that with its focus on video game
cameos and references, don't worry! You don't have to have any
knowledge of video games to understand or enjoy Wreck-it Ralph. The
story and main characters are all part of the film's story and world.
Rather than using the references as a crutch, they're used more as a
springboard into new and unexplored fictional worlds.

Granted, gamers of all ages are going to love the care and attention
taken when putting in the huge amount of references, cameos, and little
bits of easter eggs spritzed and scattered throughout Wreck-it Ralph,
making for a truly nostalgic inducing experience. 

And those classic Disney trademarks, from great characters to a well
told story, are all here and are much more than side attractions. The
twist is great, the concepts are fresh, and the level of imagination at
work revives my faith in the animated genre. There's still plenty left
in this old dog after all.

And so I have to end this review by asking, "Are you tired of the same
old washed up animated feature film? Feel like you're just too old for
childish animated movies?" Wreck-it Ralph is the perfect cure. And it's
meant for that group of movie goers looking for something more than
just another animated money pit. It's laugh out loud funny, exciting
and fresh, incredibly inventive and gleefully unique at every turn. 

It's a classic no doubt, and Wreck-it Ralph will be one of those movies
on my "favorites" shelf for decades to come. The true triumph? Wreck-it
Ralph feels like that classic game that has been a part of my childhood
ever since I can remember; the type of classic where you throw hundreds
of quarters away and you honestly just don't care, because it is just
that good. 

5/5 - Perfection; Stop reading and watch right now
