
i was deeply moved and excited by this great movie. finally, there's a
movie that told us how the kingdom of Saudi Arabia was built. this is a
movie not only gave us great scenes of the desert, the people and one
of the greatest fighting scene since 'lawrence of Arabia', but also
gave us some great love romance between the two younger generations of
the Saudi reigning tribes, their loyalty and their faith to each other
during the turmoil time. there was also a beautiful romantic touch from
that beautiful exquisite free-will young woman from the southern tribe,
she not only saved the future king, helped him regaining the land but
also left him with a forever nostalgic memory.

the casting did a great job signed up two great actors to play the foe
against each other. the development of the young hostage son from a
geeky bookworm nerd to a great man with a vision for its land and its
future was also very well crafted.

too shame that the extremity of the strong belief of the Muslim
religion didn't free that country but enslaved it later with tyranny
and totalitarianism. but for this movie itself, this outcome was not
what the screenplay and the director really wanted to portray in the
first place. what they've tried to tell by this movie were love,
loyalty, truthfulness and humanity before that black gold buried and
suffocated the whole country's past and future. its later corrution and
cruelty of the house of the saud were not included in what they wanted
to tell in this particular movie.

this is a wonderful and fantastic film with great cinematography and
sound track. an almost perfect romantic saga.
<|_=00=_|>
Directed by Jean-Jacques Annaud Set in the 1930s Arab states at the
dawn of the oil boom, the story centers on a young Arab prince torn
between allegiance to his conservative father and modern, liberal
father-in-law (plot), it is the highest budget Arabian related film
since LAWRENCE OF ARABIA (1962) and was one of the most anticipated
film events in the international film community this season, despite
the hype, however, the film was met with mixed reviews after the press
screening and premier. Expectations were high and while many were left
dissatisfied, others rated it a smashing success as it apparently
followed the book to a tee, I have not read the book so perhaps I am
missing something, but being that I have seen a number of impressive
films of late that were made for under the $1 million mark, BLACK GOLD
felt like a significant letdown with its $55 million production
price-tag and lackluster deliverance.

The highlight of the film was a fantastic performance by lead role
Tahar Rahim (A PROPHET, 2009), his soulful eyes and magnetic
vulnerability can work in any film whether speaking or just looking
into the camera sans dialogue. Mark Strong also plays a great bearded
royal Arabian Sultan Amar, even though he speaks with a distinguishable
British accent. The roles that threw the film off were those of Antonio
Banderas and Freida Pinto. It is almost impossible to watch Banderas
play Bedouin Sheik Nassib without constantly being reminded that he is,
in fact, Antonio Banderas. Freida Pinto lends the film her stunning
Indian looks as Princess Leyla, but unfortunately her dialogue consists
of cliché one-liners that might have saved the movie if not uttered; of
course bad film writing is bad writing however delivered.

3,5/5
<|_=00=_|>
It has a good story (historically irrelevant) about the beginnings of
oil exports from the middle east. The leading role is played
marvelously while for some obscure reason the accompanying major
characters are a bit swallow.

Other than that, it is consistent, the film and the story flow without
tiring the audience and with awe inspiring scenes of desert battle.

Baring in mind that I gave a 9 to the film because I really enjoyed it
and that's what films are about, I have to address the fact that either
my knowledge of the Arab world is far lesser than i thought or the film
for some reason follows some ill-thought clichés... Half of the people
shown on the film would never pass for Arabs... really never... it's
more likely that i would pass for an Arab and I'm Greek than half of
the cast of the movie... moreover the "heaviness", if it can be a valid
term, of the language reminds me more of Persians and less of Arabs ...

Anyways other than that, it is a good film worth seeing, it will make
you worth the time.
<|_=00=_|>
It draws you in slowly as most great movies do and delivers an unusual
punch and caress in places you don't expect. Also, an unusual softness
of direct male sentiment that is surprisingly well communicated in
parts without being preachy or too sentimental. And, in this fashion,
is quite scarce in movies today. It has all the sweetness, drama,
brutality and humor many movies rarely do without crossing lines or
insulting your intelligence. The dialog and acting is exceptional and
the cinematography (among other things) is quite reaching in its
ability to paint a truly encompassing picture. The shortcomings in this
movies are rather few and I tend not to dwell on negatives. I honestly
recommend it and will indeed watch it again.
<|_=00=_|>
They don't make many movies like this anymore, it felt like somebody
had discovered a lost gem from the 1970s, with real extras, real horses
and real camels instead of the soulless computer copies of todays CGI
productions. I loved it! Also the story remained interesting, when the
Prince has a difficult decision to make whose side he'll be on.

The story apparently is not precisely following actual historical
events, but takes the liberty of creating a world of the 1930s like it
could have been. No maps are shown on the screen to show which army
moves where, because it is the general feeling of a changing world that
matters, the struggle between different attitudes, not the history
lesson. I do not know why this artistic freedom is making some viewers
complain. Hundreds of western movies described battles between soldiers
and Indians which were only vaguely similar to actual history, so I
don't think this discussion is necessary. "Black Gold" is an adventure
movie, first of all. Actually, the makers balance very well between the
entertainment value and ambitions beyond that, neither too heavy nor
too light. A good compromise was found between a commercial approach
and content that has something to say. When the oil flows over the
ground, useless like a pond of black ink, one wonders: is it worth all
that fighting? One review here said 'the director made a mistake, there
is no pipeline', which proves that the poetry of pictures is really
lost on some people. Anyway. 

The makers, supported by the Emirate of Qatar, succeeded in putting the
Arabs in the focus, and if the American guy from Texas Oil remains a
cartoon character with a silly hat, it's hardly an accident. Best
actors to me were Tahar Rahim as Prince Auda and Mark Strong as Amar,
his father. Antonio Banderas, however, had a license for staring, it
seems. Any time he has got a close-up without much to say: yes, he
stares in an interesting way. The director could have told him him not
to overdo it, but I guess it's easier said than done.
<|_=00=_|>
In the beginning of the Twentieth Century, in Arabia, Emir Nesib
(Antonio Banderas) of Hobeika defeats Sultan Amar (Mark Strong) of
Salma after years of war between their tribes and they make a peace
treaty creating "The Yellow Belt", a large no man's land that would
separate their lands and would not belong to neither of them. Further,
Nesib demands the sons of Amar, Saleh and Auda, to be raised together
with his children Tarik and Leyla by him in Hobeika as a guarantee of
their agreement. 

Fifteen years later, representatives of the Texas Oil find oil in the
Yellow Belt and the modern and liberal Emir Nesib sees the opportunity
to improve and modernize the life of his tribe, building hospitals and
schools, and the American Company begins the exploitation of the oil
field, violating the peace pact.

Nasib sends a representative to make an agreement with the
fundamentalist Sultan Amar, but he does not accept the offer. Saleh
decides to travel to Salma to talk to his father and kills his two
companions, but he is captured and murdered by Tarik. Prince Auda
(Tahar Rahim) and Princess Leyla (Freida Pinto) are in love with each
other since they were children and they get married with the full
permission of Nesib. Auda travels to Salma expecting to convince his
father to associate to Nesib, but the conservative Amar does not accept
the proposal and decides to fight against Nesib. Now, Prince Auda shall
decide in which side he will pick and fight. 

"Black Gold" is another wonderful epic adventure by the French director
Jean-Jacques Annaud with a great international cast and wonderful
cinematography in an environment of "Lawrence of Arabia". The story is
entertaining, the soundtrack is very beautiful and the DVD has
magnificent Extras showing the Making Of and the Special Effects. My
vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "O Príncipe do Deserto" ("The Prince of the Desert")
<|_=00=_|>
I remember when Lawrence of Arabia came out, long ago. The most
stunning things about it were Peter O'Toole, the haunting music, and
the hard won shots of the desert. I would have traded it all to learn
the details of desert warfare, but it failed to do more than offer a
glimpse. Instead it wallowed in Lawrence's tortured mind to little
purpose, creating a deeply dissatisfying movie. Now, years later, my
antidote has come in the form of a real story, the kind I longed for as
a kid, but seldom found. 

If you consider the people of the Arabian desert savage, superstitious
barbarians, you won't be able to enjoy this movie. But if you can
suspend your prejudice long enough to be convinced, they do a fine job
of conveying how a totally foreign and ancient culture can make more
than a little sense in today's world. 

Is it all fantasy, these unusually noble men with their deep distrust
of western values? I doubt it. There are always ineffable things about
a people's true dreams and character that have little to do with their
actual history, that can only really be expressed in art. If I were
Arab I'd be very happy to see a movie like this about how my
forefathers reacted to the first oil wells and the riches they
promised.

The lead, Tahar Rahim, is spot on as the bookish Prince Auda, turned
fighter. His father Mark Strong as the Sultan Amar has some of the best
lines and is a strong and welcome presence throughout. Antonio Banderas
worked for me as Emir Nesib and I admire his entire career. There's no
doubt in my mind he was fully committed to this movie though some
apparently found his performance distracting; I did not. As others have
pointed out, Freida Pinto and Liya Kebede, as the female leads, are
both fairly wasted here though there's something true about how minor
their roles are given this is mostly a story about change, war and
father-son relations.

No, I might forever be labeled a low brow for writing this, but I
enjoyed this film much more than I did the highly acclaimed Lawrence of
Arabia. This is a far more earnest and effecting film and deserves a
great deal more praise than it's likely to get in the west given our
politics. That's truly a shame as we could use a little sympathy and
insight into these people.
<|_=00=_|>
Set in the 1930, two Arabian Sultans agree for a neutral zone within
the desert that none of them shall ever claim as his after one sultan
has defeated the other. To bind the treaty, the defeated sultan gives -
as is Bedouin custom - his sons as hostages for life to the undefeated
king. The sons grow up with the family of the undefeated ruler more or
less free, but do not return or flee out of honor. A full decade later
the ruling king recognizes that his country is not only plagued by
diseases he cannot cure, but that all his regions he rules over are
hundreds of years technologically behind. An American Oil company finds
oil within the neutral zone and approaches the ruling king to gain
permission to pump the oil. When the ruling king agrees and thereby
breaks the old peace treaty, he gains wealth, but also sparks the
flames of war. One of the two sons of the defeated kings, who were
life-term hostages is a bookworm and is loved very much by the ruling
king's daughter,becomes so his son-in-law and tries his best to become
a peace emissary to avoid a war. After his appeals to his own father
fail, he must choose a side and fate foresees a transformation of the
protagonist. Will his transformation be successful and can he avoid for
his country to be torn apart in a civil war and still find love and
happiness in his personal life as well as for his to be born nation?

Find out and watch this epic movie with a fantastic soundtrack from
James Horner and get drawn in the world of kings, Bedouins and the
unforgiving Arabian desert 80 years ago - you'll like the
cinematography. My vote: a fascinating 8 of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
*'May' Contain Spoilers* 

I have to admit, I have not watched Lawrence of Arabia before watching
this film. I speak for most people with great expectations  when I saw
the trailer, I thought it will be mostly of action and thriller
consisting most of an epic battle between Arabian tribes. I was wrong,
but not entirely. The film offers me something different. It's best to
not expect anything at all.

The first half of the movie drags on with little action but it does
clearly explain to its audience the events that lead up to trouble 
which is alright for people who are not very familiar of the Arabian
ways. I thought it was getting weary and a little bit predictable so I
started fidgeting on my seat, but I found out serves well as a
foundation for the greater part to come. The second half undoubtedly
kept me at the edge of my seat with unexpected events, humor, thrill of
war and survival all slowly building up to an epic tale ...so to say
this film is quite balanced with all its elements. An admiration and
appreciation grew with the struggle and the conflicts in retaining
traditional culture and introducing modernization faced by our
characters, and it does lay out a lot of things for the audience to
think about the motivations of using wealth of oil to lead the riches
of these Arabian countries today, when they leave the cinema.

Tahir Rahim has served well as the main character Prince Auda, but his
rise a leader was never fully realized by the audience. He was instead
thought of as the normal humble quiet man with great ideas and moral,
which rests a little bit uneasy with the leader archetype. However,
there were references to the ways of Prophet Muhammad in a way that
Auda was not aiming to be a hero or a leader, but rather a visionary.
Pinto (Princess Leyla) fails expectations as she only plays the part of
a loyal wife with a few cheesy lines and nothing more. Though I think
it is important to realize that this is close to reality of the Arabian
culture than most. One can't compare it to Prince of Persia and expect
women to play a huge role in a fight because there's clearly a
respected difference in the role of men in women in the Arabic culture
that time. Having said that, I don't think Pinto has lived up to her
potential, so her appearance in the film only serves as a name. I would
also like to praise Riz Ahmed for his role as Ali  a humorous and
lovable character despite his background as an outcast.

What I think of the movie? It's great. I really enjoyed it. It's even
better if you have a good idea about the culture, traditions and a bit
of understanding about the religion. If not, it definitely stirs up a
great deal of curiosity. To me, the movie catches almost all of the
Arabian essentials, not just about the oil discovery. It also creeps
closer to the modern Arab reality rather than capturing a glossy
fantastical events to please its audience, which I like. What I think
is unbelievable however, is the budget they spent for this movie. It
sure doesn't seem like it at all, but the enchantment does somehow
work.
<|_=00=_|>
'Black Gold' is an old fashioned epic about feuding fiefdoms in 1930's
Arabia, when oil had just been discovered in the region. Mark Strong &
Antonio Banderas are the two rulers with a long standing rivalry that
metamorphoses into a temporary truce, only to flare up again when their
very divergent views inevitably come in the way. Tahar Rahim & Freida
Pinto as their respective children, married to each other in what is
essentially a politically motivated gesture, attempt to play the
peacemakers. Performances - particularly Strong, Rahim & Pinto - are
very good. Rahim, playing a Michael Corleone-ish character, does a
commendable job. Pinto looks lovely, and Strong as the devout Sultan
with a conscience, is nicely understated. As is customary in director
Jean-Jacques Annaud's films, the locales & cinematography are
breathtaking. The action sequences are crisp & filmed in a raw,
realistic manner. Where the film falters, is in taking too long to tell
a story that in fact needs far less time. Some passages get boring
whereas others keep the viewer completely engrossed. It is this
unevenness in the film's pacing that dents the possibility of it
soaring high. Overall though, not a bad way to spend a couple of hours.
