
Let's try to understand the miracle I have just witnessed. Director Wes
Anderson is 12 years old, has just experienced his first love while at
Summer camp, and immediately rushed to a camera to tell us, his pen
pals, the story. A slightly embellished story which follows the perfect
scenarios we would draw at night in our beds at this age. It has all
the tiny details, the sense of adventure and the freshness of youth.
How someone 43 years old in real life could do this movie is beyond me.
The drawback of this miracle for the viewer is that such a jump back
into the kind of idealized feelings you had in your early teens leaves
you with quite some melancholy when you leave the cinema.

It could be that some people do not connect to the movie and just see
it as "adorable" or "cute" and nothing more. But I suppose most people
will feel connected, notably because the movie has this
straight-to-the-point attitude in both the technique and the
story-telling; the story is read to you, not force-fed with dramatic
music and whatnot. Just like one of the characters who reads bedtime
stories to the others.

You might complain about the lack of character development for some of
the big names in this film (Norton, Willis, Murray - McDormand less so
as she gets more detailed screen time than the others) but I suppose
this is wanted: kids will see hints of the issues adults are facing,
but can't understand them fully. And remember this is a movie shot by
12-year old Wes Anderson.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this just now in a small indie cinema in Heidelberg, Germany and I
have to say, it was a romp. In my humble opinion this film manages to
be both Wes Anderson's funniest picture so far and his most
melancholic. The utter uncompromising stylishness of his other work is
also present here, perhaps even heightened, but in contrast to The Life
Aquatic (and to a certain degree The Darjeeling Limited), the emphasis
here is firmly on plot. The brave and often odd visuals never overwhelm
the story and the audience never feels like they are not quite in on
the joke, like in The Life Aquatic. The tone does tend to become a bit
erratic, especially in the last third of the film when Anderson seems
to want to pack so much into every frame that the film becomes a bit
cartoonish at times (hence the not-perfect score from me). All in all,
though, the plot is very balanced and the pacing is great. The two
young leads are superb and the brave move by Anderson to place unknown
actors front and centre pays off beautifully. The rest of the cast is
on paper even more star-studded than The Royal Tenenbaums and yet
Anderson never steers into unnecessary character development just to
accommodate his stars. A touch here and a touch there are more than
enough to paint a picture of a group of people who are eerily similar
in their dissatisfaction with their lives and yet react quite
differently to the two young lovers' dash (literally) for happiness. In
conclusion, a must-see for Anderson fans and highly recommended for
everyone else.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the dreadful title, Moonrise Kingdom is simply wonderful. 

Since his flying start with Bottle Rocket and the triumph of Rushmore,
I felt that Wes Anderson had rather tottered off a true path. The Royal
Tenenbaums was hit and miss, The Darjeeling Limited was too twee, and
The Life Aquatic was simply AWFUL. I take against ANY film that wastes
Bill Murray.

Moonrise Kingdom doesn't repeat that error. Despite covering ground
Anderson's already visited to an extent in Rushmore, MK looks at a
teenage crush with fresh eyes, and surrounds it with a fantastic cast
of oddballs and misfits. Unlike his films where the characters are
irritatingly quirky for the sake of it, these oddballs seem organic to
their strange island home. Star among them is Ed Norton as Scout Master
Ward, who looks as if he's having the time of his life in shorts and
woggles, in charge of a troop described as 'beige lunatics'.

Bruce Willis, Frances McDormand and Bill Murray all play their parts
but never feel as though they're elbowing for the spotlight, which
keeps the mood kind, befitting the hearts of all involved in the search
for runaway scout, Sam, and his pen-pal, Suzy. 

Visually, it's a feast of saturated colour and fabulous design, but -
as with the best of Wes Anderson - the devil's always in the detail.
The laughs come from minutely observed accessories (keep an eye on the
scouts' badges!) and from throwaway truths. And the soundtrack is a
great mix of wistful Western and classical pieces. Definitely buyable. 

Anderson flirts with surrealism, but never gets Burtonesque,
controlling his story with a firmer hand and to better effect. His
situations might be bizarre, but the people in them are always
painfully, wonderfully human. It's also a rare film - one you could
watch with your grandmother or your grandchildren, with only a couple
of moments where young eyes would have to be covered, and no real
violence or swearing.

There is an overwhelming feeling of innocence and good will throughout.

I loved it from the opening frames, and it only got better from there.
<|_=00=_|>
In the past, Anderson has whirled us from melancholy dreamscapes set
deep below the Pacific to tales of inter-generation betrayals in the
name of love, from doomed romances in Paris hotels to deliriously
bizarre animal revolutions in the English countryside. But for all the
retro-stylings his films so proudly wear, Moonrise Kingdom is
Anderson's first period piece - a tender love story set in the
sepia-soaked sixties of Anderson's youth that have worked their
influence into every one of his movies. It is fitting that this film is
his most childlike - not in any way any simpler than his other films
(as anyone with an accurate memory of childhood will remember all it's
complexities; the way each trivial thing became a nest of thorns), but
an accurate and deeply heartfelt depiction of childhood. It is not
aiming to be as crushingly dramatic as Life Aquatic or as deeply tragic
as Hotel Chevalier, because that wouldn't be appropriate for the story
it's trying to tell. Instead, while still bearing Anderson's still
surprising streak of black humour (some acts of violence really catch
you off-guard; then again, children are violent so hats off Wes), it is
largely concerned with the dramas and tragedies of youth. Yes, it is
less ambitious than say The Life Aquatic but it also has none of the
flaws that that film does (and believe me, I am a massive Steve Zissou
fan). Instead, it is perfectly executed, wonderfully acted poignant
beauty, with fantastic performances across the board (especially from
newcomers Gilman and Hayward). This, while not his most ambitious, is
certainly Anderson's most perfect work so far. You owe it to yourself
to see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie! One of Wes Anderson's best - up there with Rushmore
and Fantastic Mr Fox. Top reasons to see this movie: 

The love story between the quirky dark characters was so sweet. The
casting for the 2 lead kids was spot on! You can take kids to this
movie. They won't get all of the subtle humor but you will. The music
and the film setting. The quirkiness of the filming, scenes, and
narrator. Everyone in short pants... classic! Bruce Willis is actually
good in it. Beautifully shot. You leave the theater with a smile on
your face and a tear in your eye. Best movie so far this year.

Anyone who said they did't like it, doesn't get Wes Anderson. If you
like his movies, you will love Moonrise Kingdom!
<|_=00=_|>
The year is 1965 and a remote North Eastern coastal community is
plunged into confusion when it discovers that two kids have run away.
Sam, a discontented Khaki Scout, and Suzy, a put-upon older sister and
forgotten daughter, abscond into the forest to escape their
dissatisfying existences. The responsible adults  Sam's Scout Master
Ward (Edward Norton) and Suzy's parents (Bill Murray and Frances
McDormand)  and the entire town set out on a frenzied search, which
gets wild when the largest storm in recorded history touches down and
puts everyone's life into question. What ensues is a battle between
youth and age, hope and disillusionment, faith and cynicism.

In terms of story and character, Wes Anderson's previous films,
especially The Royal Tenenbaums and The Darjeeling Limited, are
superior. Even in the most compelling relationship in the film between
Captain Sharp (Bruce Willis) and Sam doesn't embody Anderson's ability
to take his characters into deep emotional places of hurt and healing
without melodrama. However, the newest addition to the Anderson canon
is a cinematic experience.

Moonrise Kingdom's story, co-written with Roman Coppola, takes a
definite backseat to style, as Anderson saturates the entire film with
a "Norman Rockwell-type of Americana". Stylistically, it may be
Anderson's most masterful work, as the costumes, sets, and settings
transport the viewer to an alternate universe, a place of wonder and
adventure. The soundtrack is especially effective, as it recalls a time
when things were simpler: Hank Williams was on the radio, and children
listened to records instead of playing video games. However, Anderson
isn't content with reminiscing about the year 1965. He takes this
nostalgia and twists it, infusing the film with a twinge of sadness
through the reality of life's disappointments. He doesn't reject the
Rockwellian view of America, but argues that it doesn't tell the whole
story.

Moonrise Kingdom is that place of beauty and passion that we all have
been in at least once in our lives  the one place on earth where we
believe that anything is possible. It has since been lost, but it
persists in our memories in moments of nostalgia.
<|_=00=_|>
The thing that I enjoy most about Wes Anderson films is that they each
feel like a great adventure and in this sense I think Moonrise Kingdom
is his best yet. It tells that tale of Sam, an orphan on scout camp,
and Suzy, a misunderstood girl, as they run away together. At first I
found the two actors playing the kids to be kind of limp but after a
few minutes I warmed to them and I actually think they were both pretty
good overall, particularly Jared Gilman who plays Sam and even more so
knowing that it's the first acting he's ever done. The rest of the cast
are all pursuing or helping them in some way and there a couple of
sub-plots with the island's policeman (played by Bruce Willis) and the
parents of Suzy (Bill Murray and Frances McDormand).

I thought that the rest of the cast was great. In fairness I am a bit
biased because I love Bill Murray, Edward Norton, Bruce Willis and
Frances McDormand but even so I have to say that they were all really
good, especially Edward Norton who plays the scout master, and Bill
Murray. There are also a couple of minor roles for Jason Schwartzman,
Harvey Keital and Tilda Swinton who were also a lot of fun. Everyone in
the cast fits into their role really well which is obviously exactly
what you want, but not only is that the case for the main roles but
also for the less important ones, like the scout troupe (especially
Sam's 'enemy'), Suzy's three brothers or the oddball narrator.

Cinematography wise I didn't think this movie was particularly
spectacular, especially in comparison to other Wes Anderson movies like
'The Life Aquatic' or 'The Royal Tenenbaums'. There were a couple of
shots that were cool though, some really long zoom outs (which sounds
clichéd but it worked) and the doll house type ones that I love and
think are awesome.

I wouldn't expect to wet your pants laughing at any moment in 'Moonrise
Kingdom' but it is funny. There are a couple of laugh out loud moments
and as a whole the jokes are pretty sharp and intelligently done. The
reason I like the humour in this movie is that it's a part of the
ambiance and feel of it, it won't make you crack up but it will make
you have a smile on your face for pretty much the whole thing and leave
you feeling strangely happy.

That kind of ambiance is really why the movie is so good, and is
possibly Wes Anderson's best movie. The whole story is this fantastic
blend of reality and child-like dreaming and it's wonderful. At times I
felt kind of nostalgic and sad that I'm not a kid anymore. On the other
hand it feels like a tribute to those myths and dreams of being a child
and it works so well. This is the kind of film that I feel I could
watch over and over again, each time spotting something new but also
feeling good and enjoying the overall purpose.

Definitely go and see it!
<|_=00=_|>
If you've been following Mr. Anderson's relatively short career, you'll
find more of the same here: a film that is full of quirkiness, which I
find to be parables of the troubles we encounter in life. I came to
this film without any expectations, having read nothing about it in the
news so I was pleasantly surprised that the main protagonists are a
couple of tweens. Any fears of mine finding a sappy or saccharine story
were vanquished and replaced with wonderment following the journey of
the two main characters. Both actors didn't seem to have formal
training but this didn't stop them from serving the story well. It is
down to the genius of Mr. Anderson capturing their human performances
which are nothing less than beautiful.

I can't recommend this film highly enough!
<|_=00=_|>
It's 1965 and pre teen pen pals, Sam (Jared Gilman) and Suzy (Kara 
Heywood) agree to run away from home and meet up a year after meeting 
for the first time. While the two of them head off into the wilderness 
of Suzy's twelve mile long home island a search party that includes 
Island Policeman Bruce Willis, Scout leader Edward Norton, Suzy's 
parents Bill Murray and Frances McDormand and Sam's fellow Scouts set 
about trying to hunt the eloping children down in the days preceding a 
huge storm.

I should say from the outset that I am a huge Wes Anderson fan and have 
absolutely loved all of his films with the exception of Fantastic Mr 
Fox so I went in expecting great things. My expectations were matched 
and even perhaps exceeded. I loved this film. Anderson sets up Suzy's 
home life in a fantastic opening sequence which features some exquisite 
tracking shots through the family home. Before anything is said it is 
already obvious to the audience that Suzy is a loner who longs for 
something bigger, something more. Her parents do not get on and are 
never even seen in the same room, let alone talking to each other. She 
has three younger brothers who appear to get along very well. Her house 
is large and well furnished, indicating wealth if not happiness. All of 
this is established in one long sequence of beautiful camera movements 
which last no longer than a couple of minutes. Sam's life with his 
Scout troupe is shown in a similar manner although it soon becomes 
apparent that he has already escaped in search of his love, Suzy.

One of the things I love about all of Anderson's films is that you 
could turn on the TV at pretty much any moment during any of his films 
and within a few moments be sure that you are watching a Wes Anderson 
film. His style is very distinctive and it's all over his latest work. 
The shots are framed to perfection and each camera movement feels 
measured but not forced. There is a vague pastel and brown tint to 
everything which matches the film's period setting. Everything from the 
sets to the characters also feels slightly off centre and as though 
they inhabit the same world as The Royal Tenenbaums and The Darjeeling 
Limited. Anderson not only creates his own world for each film but his 
films feel somehow connected and as though they too inhabit the same 
slightly odd world.

The plot is absolutely delightful and sweet. It's such a touching and 
loving story which also feels like a love letter to the children's 
adventure books of which Suzy reads throughout the film. Though they 
read these books, the children long for an adventure of their own and 
have finally embarked on one. The characters are equally enchanting. 
Sam and Suzy are somehow both old beyond their years but also very much 
still children. They have obvious intelligence and wisdom but convey it 
through a child's eyes. They are on the cusp of adulthood but somewhere 
in between. The acting of Hayward and Gilman is superb and again both 
feel both older than they are but also very child like. They are great. 
The adult characters are also great without exception. Bruce Willis is 
a sad and lonely cop who patrols a quiet island and although he has his 
faults is very kind and caring. Edward Norton is an exemplary leader 
who also has a big heart while Bill Murray and Frances McDormand, both 
lawyers, talk to each other using mostly legal language and although 
are not really in love with each other, care a lot for their children 
and want the best for them. There are also small cameos from Jason 
Schwartzman, Harvey Keitel and Tilda Swinton, all three of which were 
welcome and provided something. The adult cast on the whole was 
fantastic.

The score goes perfectly with the on screen action and features a 
mixture of militaristic marching music, classical and 60s pop. They 
somehow all work together and help to push the story on to it's 
frenetic final act.

This is a film with a big heart, lovely story and plenty of laughs. 
Although I only just saw it I already can't wait to see it again. It's 
everything you'd expect from a Wes Anderson film but as well as being 
unusual, wacky and nice to look at also has a sweet story about 
adolescence, growing up and first love.

<|_=00=_|>
So let's get some quirky actors - Bill Murray, Ed Norton, Bruce Willis,
Frances McDormand, etc. - and put them in a quirky situation with boy
scouts on a small island and then have a quirky narrator kind of tell
us what's going to happen even though narrators usually tell us what
did happen. Wouldn't that be totally quirky! In the quirkly named
"Moonrise Kingdom" Wes Anderson tries to pull the "New Girl" television
show's audience out of cute apartments and out to the flicks. There
they find that the film presents some interesting dialog and plot turns
as well as some decent performances particularly by the child actors.
However, these charms are wrapped in circumstances somewhat over-
engineered to be offbeat. The feeling of being manipulated limits the
audience from fully enjoying the film although given the story can't
fully sustain interest over its full length limits how much there is to
enjoy. Also limiting the enjoyment are some highly uncomfortable scenes
involving a twelve year old character being felt up in her underwear.
People who find this discomforting (and everyone should feel
uncomfortable with it) should avoid the film. In short, if M. Night
Shayamalan didn't exist, Anderson would have an argument for being
rated modern U.S. cinema's most overrated director.
