
If you study film, you know that entire texts have been written on the
importance of "grounding" in a script.

The ground, also known as the glue, is the character that the viewer
finds most relatable, most sympatico, when the story itself starts fray
around the edges. Which is not to say that all scripts require a strong
ground or glue, merely that the more outrageous scripts, the scripts
with the least internal cohesion, require as much ground as they can
get.

Which brings us to OFFICE XMAS PARTY, one of the more blatant examples
of a "spaghetti on the wall" script. In other words, not a lot of fine
tuning was done to get this baby ready for shooting day. The writers
just took every gag they could think of, threw it against the wall, and
then waited to see what stuck.

Some of it stuck, most did not.

But Bateman and Munn hold the film together by holding the attention of
the viewer. In fact, they are so effortless at it that, every now and
then, for just a split second, you almost think they are acting in
another movie entirely, a romcom in which they are the only characters,
and you are imagining the other 400 extras in this overdone
extravaganza.

Is it funny? Not really. This reviewer laughed exactly once.

Is it engaging? Well, because of Bateman and Munn, actually it is.
<|_=00=_|>
If you skip one Xmas party this year then make it Office Christmas
Party.

A criminally unfunny and underdeveloped high concept comedy, trying to
recapture that Hangover like tone, Blades of Glory directors Josh
Gordon and Will Speck fail to ignite the spirit of Xmas with this
comedy caper that brings the festive vibe, but fails to bring the
laughs.

Like receiving a lump of coal in your Xmas stocking, Party offers up an
interesting proposition but delivers nothing but disappointment, as a
talented cast are laboured with material that should've been left in
Santa's screen writing workshop as the appealing idea of a wild office
party complete with outlandish shenanigans is instead overrun by a
totally unappealing story of a struggling company trying to win a big
contract, with added bi-polar pimps, sister/brother in-fighting and
misuses of the office 3-D printer instead taking over.

It's like you're constantly waiting for the true laughs to kick in as a
rather labour intensive lead up to the party hitting full swing seems
to drag on for far too long then once the party actually starts we are
taken away on a consistent basis to revert back to one of the films
countless other side stories, it's almost as if Gordon and Speck didn't
trust their core concept enough and in the end failed to even unlock
any of its potential to be a festive themed riot.

Making matters worse for the film's tired scripting and plotting is a
collection of equally tired performances from a well renowned cast.

Lead by the ever the same Jason Bateman (looking and acting like he
couldn't care less), Party wastes the comedic talents of T.J Miller
(who seems better suited to cameo like turns rather than high screen
time), Jennifer Anniston, Rob Cordry and worst of all Kate McKinnon
while Olivia Munn just feels out of place in the whole wild night. The
cast clearly had chances to improvise a large portion of the films
dialogue and situations but barely any of the films payoffs actually
work and at the end of the day most of the material here is below the
performers talents.

Looking to strike that cord between festive joy and raunchy comedy
gold, Office Christmas Party ends up failing to find a winning balance
in either denominator and with a collection of recycled jokes and
confused stars, this is the worst kind of party where no one seems to
be having fun other than the ones that organised the whole shebang.

Â½ a Kia out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
Well, where do I begin with this? A comedy about office politics? Geez,
where have I seen that before? If you're going to make a comedy movie
these days, make it high concept, and if you can't, at least make it
funny. Office Christmas Party commits the sin of being neither. Many
film critics say this, but I haven't seen a comedy movie more deserving
of this title... it's a 90-minute SNL skit.... oh wait, I'm sorry,
Current SNL. It thinks it's a wild and crazy comedy, and oh boy, is it
not. It plays it safe on nearly everything. It's as if Kate McKinnon's
ultra-sensitive HR character directed the film. For a such a diverse
cast of funny men and women, they are neutered of good material to work
with. Jason Bateman is given nothing. Jennifer Aniston's character is
one-note, though I'll give her credit for at least trying to make it
work. Then, there's T.J. Miller. Dane Cook lite. He's currently being
groomed as Hollywood's next hottest comedy star, and if he is, welcome
to the dark ages. He is woefully unfunny. How did he make it out there?
Why is it that so many amazing comedians, screenwriters and directors
get turned down straight out of film school, and yet they give this man
a shot? He gets the most screen time out of everyone here. It's quite
sad actually. There are good performances in this, believe it or not.
Kate McKinnon and the always funny Rob Corddry are the only two shining
spots in this otherwise terrible film. I could go on, but why bother? I
don't really need to, but when you spend 30 bucks for you and your
friend to go see this in a theater, I feel the need to vent.
<|_=00=_|>
The studios have been in a recent pattern of putting out some really
disappointing "comedies," "Hail, Caesar" and "Masterminds" spring to
mind first, and you can add "Office Christmas Party" to the list.

Potentially a great cast, an "R" rating which means they don't have to
restrain the writing, and..............DUD. Especially with an "R"
rating, I fully expect to have more than a few burst-out-laughing
moments, that's not the case with this one. 

A Human Resources person who runs around spouting company policies?
Yeah, surprise....we never saw anything like that before. Really, ummm,
funny. The odd thing was, when there was something that was genuinely
funny, the audience we were with seemed afraid to laugh. When one
character curses out a child at the airport, instead of laughing
(because it's supposed to be a COMEDY, folks!), they were horrified. Oh
well. 

There's a few chuckles but mostly low-key humor dominating this film
and that's all I got out of it. You'd be better off waiting for it to
come to cable.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's a mess of a movie. The first hint of a problem is the number of
writing credits. The next hint is two directors. 

The movie starts too soon with a scene in the attorney's office with a
couple of jokes that fall flat. The info from that scene really didn't
matter. The movie starts when Jennifer Aniston storms in and trashes
the decorations.

The movie falls the number one test of a comedy. There are just not
enough laughs. There is plenty of bad language, drinking, and drug use.
There is even some attempts at humor using a gun as a comedy prop. So
much doesn't work.

If you last that long, the stills and clips in the end credits make it
look like the cast had a better time then the audience. If you pay
anything to see this it is too much. Stay home and sort your socks
rather then attend this party.
<|_=00=_|>
I dreaded seeing this. My daughter rents many videos on Redbox, but we
consistently shot her down when she would bring this one up to rent.
She finally rented it anyway. We sat down to watch it and I was ready
to just play games on my phone until it was over. I was pleasantly
surprised. It was not as bad as the reviews would lead you to believe.
Comedy is a very relative, personal thing. What someone finds funny,
someone else would not. I have strange taste in comedy. I like
physical, silly comedies, but also intelligent satire, I'm kind of all
over the map when it comes to what makes me laugh. This one, about a
software company on the brink of failure, was pretty good. I laughed
several times. It was a little long for a comedy, I feel they could
have edited some scenes better. Two hours is too long for most movies,
especially a comedy. I liked most of the characters and thought they
did well with the script they were given. It's not rocket science, but
it was entertaining and I'm glad she rented it.
<|_=00=_|>
A rolling embarrassment from top to bottom. Actors, crew,
scriptwriter/s, directors/s, producers, distributors, theaters and
viewers. 

Whoever thought this 'idea' was worthy of spending money on should be
drafted into the Army to make STD protection documentaries. 

The dialog was a combination of 'we're hip' and 'we're cute' and
finally 'we're immature and silly and you must laugh at our foolish
antics'. Not to mention 'we've got cool jobs, act like jerks at work
and nobody with a brain ever calls us on it'. 

The acting was straight out of Pac Bell. They read their lines in the
trailer and then spoke them when the camera was running. What could go
wrong? 

A lot.
<|_=00=_|>
This really was unfunny despite a strong line up of decent actors it
was formulaic and predictable.The usual suspects comedy wise, one
dimensional and contrived . The usual (spoiler alert)half baked drug
related comedy and spinning cars going blissfully through red
lights........come on ! We deserve better......watch it and try to get
to the end you will kick yourself. Good points..I honestly can,t think
of anything, get on DVD you can always fast forward.
<|_=00=_|>
What a waste of a potentially funny talented cast. This year's big
budget Christmas movie has about 10% of it that is funny - the rest is
painful crude and unfunny. The premise has some potential but things
run out of steam quickly. 

The cast performs as well as they can. Jennifer Aniston is probably the
reason why someone would choose to watch this movie. She is good at
playing the bitchy hard as nails CEO. Olivia Munn has the main female
lead role here and she is quite attractive. The other Asian American
cast members are wasted. Jamie Chung serves mainly as eye candy and
Randall Kim has a painful goofy role. Jason Bateman is okay TJ Miller
is the brother and looks suitably stoned. 

Save yourself - this one is one for the bargain DVD bin.
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of talented new and not so new actors and comedians appear in
this and like a lot of movies with too many people in it, none get to
do much. The set up takes a long time to build to the party but the set
up is better than the pay off. It's just a formless mess by that point,
the "jokes" become every character dropping the F bomb and most of the
slapstick doesn't work.

Is that really still funny? How many years of R rated movies have we
seen and R rated comedies? Jason Bateman gamely goes the distance
playing straight man. Aniston does a one note version of her previously
funnier, mean heartless bitch roles in Horrible Bosses--only there is
not twist or reason for it, other than that the movie needs a
villain--I guess.

It's just not very clever or funny. Only Courtney B. Vance manages to
make his obvious part funny. I suppose this may be a little harsh there
are chuckles here and there but it never really takes off and the
"story" and resolution are both obvious and confusing. You never get
any sense that this office of people give a crap about each other or
their jobs--but then we are asked to root for them?

Of course there is also a fair amount of what should be black humor but
only little bits of this work the rest just seem kind of ugly. This
movie will try everything to see what works but not much does. A lot of
fake looking snow in the film which has a flat video look to it as
well. You'll just wish that all these good actors had something
genuinely funny or original to do--but if that's your Christmas wish
this movie won't fulfill it. You really need a script and a sense of
direction---from the directors. Oh there's a guy in a sheep costume
too, I give it a 3 instead of a 2 because of that.
