
This is the best film I have seen all year, and I saw just about every
good film to hit theaters in 2013. I think it's because it is so
representational of what it's like to be human.

There are so many things that make this movie special, but I'll just
mention a few. 

1. The score is INCREDIBLE. The music paired with the beautiful sound
design make you FEEL the movie. Sure, you see everything on the screen,
which is already beautiful, but then that music hits you and the
emotions just start to run. I laughed, I cried, my brain got all
tingly. It was an emotional roller coaster, and the score assisted in
that so well. 

2. The script. I knew how this movie was going to end 30 minutes in.
And unlike most who would then say that it's predictable and not worth
watching, I consider that awesome, because it means that the script is
tight enough to tell a good story with a believable arc. Every scene in
this movie is straight up powerful! Like it will fill your heart with
sadness and happiness and pain and guilt and confusion. And then rinse
and repeat. For 2 hours. It moves through all of the most complex and
interesting questions that we should be asking ourselves about what it
means to be a human being. About what it means to be alive. This film
is about all that life is. And after the screening, as well as during,
I found myself questioning things in my own life that either don't make
sense or don't have to make sense. Like love and thoughts and emotions.
They're all so natural and yet none of us truly understand how they
work. In my opinion, moreso than any other film this year, Her has the
perfect mix of complex ideas, story, and character development. One of
the best scripts ever written. 

3. Cinematography. My personal favorite shot to see and use is the
extreme close up. And that shot was all over this movie. The reason I
love it so much and believe it works so well is because it allows you
to see the emotions of the character so plainly. Like their face is
right in your face, so you just have to look at it. And that's where
Joaquin shines. He delivers such a powerful and emotional performance
and the close ups are there to capture it all. They also make great use
of the natural backlighting of Shanghai, and the colors all fuse to
make it a really pretty movie. I'd say the cinematography is on par
with Drive and/or Lost in Translation in terms of the style. It looks
like every shot was photographed with the intent to make it the most
beautiful shot in the film. And I admire the DP's work. He did a really
great job. 

More than anything though, this film just made me feel. Everything
about it was so beautiful. I didn't want it to end. I felt like the
film was controlling me - playing with my mind as if it were a
joystick. And that's just something you don't get every day. Very
rarely am I awe- stricken by a movie, and this film made my jaw drop.
It is without a doubt the best film of the year, and upon just one
viewing, one of my top 5 favorite movies of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
Science fiction has been dominated by 'space westerns' for so long that
the occasional concept- based story situation hits a big number on my
personal richter scale. 

What does it mean to be human? And if we create near-humans what is our
responsibility to them and what is their relationship to us? These
themes underpinned Blade Runner and Spielberg's A.I. And Sci Fi of the
50s and 60s dealt with machine self awareness. None of the films that
touched on this subject in the past presented it so thoroughly,
intimately and believably. 

Her is in the near future, but everything we see is within reach now:
the isolation and starkness of the "business district," the oppressive
scale of the architecture (with thin, clumsy attempts to soften its
sterility) and the need for continuous connection to remote voices.

A personal assistant that learns independently and takes initiative for
its hapless user, "Her" is at once the ideal tool and  who knows 
perhaps closer to the next level of evolution. 

Pitch perfect performances and direction kept me in the story. As
others have said, the locations, cinematography and even music shine in
the fabric of this film. Spike Jonze is a master story weaver at the
top of his game. Joaquin Phoenix is utterly credible as are all the
other leads. Even Scarlett Johansson, who has not always seemed a
strong actress to me performs utterly convincingly. 

It's an adult-themed film in more ways than one, but especially in the
best way: it makes you think about a reality that's right around the
corner.
<|_=00=_|>
Talk about closing with a bang. Spike Jonze's long-awaited original
film about a writer that falls in love with his operating system is not
only the best film to play at this year's New York Film Festival; it
very well could be the very best film of the year. "Her" is the finest
writing and directorial endeavor of Spike Jonze's career. And then
there's the towering and crowning work of Academy Award nominee Joaquin
Phoenix who proves once again, he's the finest actor working today,
hands down. You can't find a more dynamic and compelling story about
the human connection and where we're headed as a society.

When "Her" opens up, it snaps you immediately into the story. Phoenix
plays Theodore, a writer for a website that makes letters for just
about anyone. As he tries to find life during the midst of his divorce
from his wife Catherine (played by a beautiful Rooney Mara), Theodore
finds solace in a friendship with a new OS (operating system) named
Samantha (voiced by Scarlett Johansson). The two develop a relationship
in a world where OS's are becoming the norm with society.

Jonze's has never been the conventional director as we've seen in his
other brilliant efforts "Being John Malkovich" and "Where the Wild
Things Are." Jonze sets out to tell a story and deliver all the
intricate details for us to understand each character. His focus on
Theodore, giving him a real sense of loneliness without falling into
cliché character ticks and beats that we've seen countless times in
other romantic films, Jonze constructs a real man living in a world
where technology has taken precedent over human connection.

Christopher Nolan should take notes from Jonze on the assembling of
female counterparts in a story. Catherine and Theodore's friend Amy,
played by the always dependable Amy Adams, both feel genuinely
authentic. Mara, who's already delivered one other powerful performance
in "Ain't Them Bodies Saints" earlier this year, is finely utilized.
She shows once again that she's a true professional, with limited
screen time (many in flashbacks); she can staple herself in your
memory.

Amy Adams is always the sprinkle on top in all of her films. As "Amy,"
the awkward friend and neighbor who sympathizes more with Theodore more
than she'd like to, Adams expertly executes. With four prior Oscar
nominations to her credit, her stunning portrayal is just another
fantastic pin to add to her credits. She could find traction during the
awards season if the film hits in the right way. That's also part to
the petty Oscar rules about rewarding voice performances because if
that wasn't the case, Scarlett Johansson would be on stage holding an
Oscar of her own next March. As "Samantha," Johansson has never tapped
into the essence of her abilities as an actress the way she does in
"Her." As an OS, full of wonder and curiosity, "Samantha" is
essentially a child. Learning at a rapid rate and studying the
behaviors of the human mind, she looks at the world through the eyes of
Theodore. Johansson holds our hand in through the tale, even when her
voice isn't on screen. This is the type of work that could convince the
Board of Governors to rethink the eligibility of an acting performance.
This is a masterful work that I'll remember for years to come.

And then there's Joaquin Phoenix...oh, Mr. Phoenix. Fresh off his
historic performance in Paul Thomas Anderson's "The Master" just a year
ago, I didn't think he could impress me so soon and yet here we are.
His sensitive and perceptive take on the role is what films are all
about. It's one of the best things that 2013 has offered and a
performance that could land him his first Oscar. I think Phoenix
himself was impressed with the work he and his colleagues have
accomplished. At the press conference, he actually gave an answer to
one of the questions from the audience. If anyone was in attendance at
the conference for James Gray's "The Immigrant" - a prickly, disengaged
Phoenix put on his sunglasses and put the microphone on the floor. This
is a performance that you can identify with. He's not simply awkward
for the sake of being, he has baggage and connection issues. There's
sincerity in his words and mannerisms. A getaway in a cabin, alone but
with "Samantha" encapsulates everything about Theodore. Phoenix
achieves the impossible and is an instant Oscar contender.

But "Her" isn't just about the writing and performances; it's an all-
around technical marvel. Most notably the Production Design of K.K.
Barrett, who has worked on "Where the Wild Things Are." Our story takes
place in a futuristic (though never said how far ahead) Los Angeles and
with shooting overseas, Barrett captures the clout of the city and its
inside counterparts. Cinematographer Hoyte Van Hoytema's use of colors
and smooth palettes are things of a dream. Affectionately snuggling up
to Phoenix as he whispers the sweetness of words to "Samantha" or the
sweetness of a new letter at work, Hoytema has quickly become one of my
favorite DP's, especially following "Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy" and
"Let the Right One In." Arcade Fire and Karen O. are simply magic in
their music that accompanies our story about love. A modern yet
classical composition that in key scenes could move you to tears.

"Her" is one of the best love stories I've witnessed in some time.
Charlie Kaufman will always have the honor of penning my favorite love
story of all-time "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" but Spike
Jonze and "Her" are giving it a true run for the money at the moment.
Warner Bros. must know what they have with a limited release in late
November; this...

Read More @ http://www.awardscircuit.com
<|_=00=_|>
Spike Jonze's latest feature 'Her', set in the not-too-distant future,
tells the story of Theodore Twombly (Phoenix) who finds himself falling
in love with 'Samantha', an advanced operating system voiced by the
sultry Scarlett Johansson. It is clear to see why this film was chosen
by the National Board of Review as the best film of 2013: the visual
style and extensive use of pastel colours is a triumph in itself, and
the acting, editing, costumes and screenplay are all worthy of
recognition.

I went to an awards screening of 'Her' and was pleased to find out that
the film was not at all what I was expecting. It has such a distinct
style, and Joaquin Phoenix carries the film with tremendous grace as
the complicated and sensitive protagonist. The film is mostly Phoenix
alone with Johansson's voice (reminiscent of Sandra Bullock in
'Gravity' or Robert Redford in 'All Is Lost' - two other 2013 films
mainly revolving around one solitary character), but the audience never
feels abandoned by the lack of other characters as we begin to forget
that 'Samantha' is just really just a computer.

'Her' is a complex film with a much deeper meaning that lies beneath
the surface. A beautifully crafted motion picture, this quirky love
story is sure to resonate with you once you've seen it. It is an
extremely interesting (and realistic) look at the future - Jonze's
quaint and poignant film is a must-see! 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I want to list the positives in this movie, because there
are several. The concept of falling in love with an AI is a great one.
The cinematography and use of color in "Her" is really beautiful. The
acting is uniformly good. Particularly Amy Adams, who plays an
understated role as a nerdy girl next door who may have feelings for
Theodore; despite a relatively quiet part, she completely inhabits Amy,
making her feel like an actual person. Joaquin Phoenix does a great job
(as usual) with Theodore, and Scarlett Johanson makes you believe she
really is a computer with a heart. But I wanted to highlight Adams's
performance; especially alongside her much larger role in American
Hustle, she deserves a few big wins this year.

That being said... I have to admit it, I got a little bored watching
this movie. If you forget that Samantha is a computer and think of her
as a human being, which is easy to do, this movie is basically a series
of relationship conversations between Joaquin Phoenix and a camera
phone. The pace is surprisingly slow, and since the "girl" has no body,
it's difficult to visually show their relationship. You have the
requisite "quirky" scenes with Phoenix running through the subway,
playing a ukulele, sitting on the beach fully clothed. The rest of the
movie is basically talking. Samantha expresses lots of deep ideas about
being a computer, but they are never visualized. This can work to great
effect -- the scene when Theodore and Samantha "make love" to a totally
black screen is the most brilliant one in the movie, even if it goes a
little over the top. But you feel like Jonze missed a lot of chances to
show us what the characters are saying about love, and life, rather
than just have them tell us via voice-over. It broke a golden rule:
"show, don't tell". The plot never really moves, and the concept starts
to lose steam. There's a totally unnecessary video game subplot that I
won't even bother to go into. The movie's observations about love and
life were fairly obvious, as well, even veering into sappy. I hate
having to write that, because I felt like the movie's heart was in the
right place, and it had so much potential. But it just wasn't as
interesting as I had hoped.

There is a lot to like about "Her", and despite its flaws, I would
still recommend it as one of the better movies of the year. I just
think it could have been a lot more than what it is.
<|_=00=_|>
While the idea behind the movie is sorta-kinda unique (Smart House,
anyone?), the actual romantic plot line was so poorly executed I
couldn't even believe it.

I tried to sympathize with Samantha, really I did; at first her
character seemed very promising. But it turned into the most
stereotypical, bland romance ever. The number of times Samantha and
Theodore sighed only to have the other ask "What's wrong?" followed by
"Nothing, I'm fine" was way too painful. The interactions between the
two of them were so plain and boring and predictable that I found
myself not caring about either of these characters at all.

By the end of the film, when Samantha decided to leave, I wasn't even
upset, or interested, or anything. It didn't feel as though anything
significant had changed or happened.

I'm sorry but two hours of watching Theodore talk to Samantha/himself
was really hard to enjoy.

Don't even get me started on the sex/cyber scenes. I understand what
they were going for. But again, just about everything in this movie was
so awkwardly executed, that simply knowing what they were intending to
portray was not enough.

TL;DR I just don't know what to say. The previews for this film made it
look really interesting, something that might get you thinking... but
ultimately it was a depressing movie all around, honestly a waste of
potential, this could have been something great; instead it became a
weird and melodramatic story. They could have replaced the AI Samantha
with a real human being and in the end not much would have been
different. I'm not sure why this film has been getting the praise it
has, it was cheesy, it was awkward, it was obscene at times, it was
simply not enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been a fan of Spike Jonze's films since I first saw Being John
Malkovich. Although the wonderful script deserves some of the credit
for making that film so great, it was immediately clear to me that
Spike Jonze was a director with a fresh and imaginative perspective.
His next film, the 2002 meta-comedy Adaptation, confirmed this with its
dry wit and multilayered narrative. Now, after a slightly less
successful (but still enjoyable) adaptation of Where The Wild Things
Are, Spike Jonze has written and directed his most complete and
poignant film yet, Her. 

The story, taking place in a near future when people spend more time
talking to their computers than they do to each other, stars Joaquin
Phoenix as Theodore Twombly, a lonely man whose job is to write
heartfelt personal letters for people not willing to do it themselves.
Theodore happens to see an ad for a new computer operating system that
is programmed with a personality, and decides to give it a shot. His
new operating system Samantha, voiced by Scarlett Johansson, is not
only intelligent but also charming and understanding, and she and Theo
quickly fall in love.

It's understandable if that premise sounds bizarre on paper, but in
execution Her is far more sweet than creepy. The film radiates warmth
and intelligence, and there is a fair amount of witty humor to ensure
that it never becomes too self-serious. It has an engaging style
similar to that of Sofia Coppola's Lost In Translation. Like in that
film, there's a certain poetic yet whimsical quality to the dialogue in
Her and both the main characters are plagued by feelings of loneliness.

Beyond the romance though, Her has a lot to say about modern society's
obsession with technology. The people in this futuristic vision of Los
Angeles walk around talking to their computers and ignoring each other
entirely, not unlike people today staring at their cell phones rather
than talking to those around them. Needless to say it's not a wildly
original message, but it's communicated in a unique enough way that it
works.

I've seen Her twice now, and the more I think about it the more I feel
that Spike Jonze has crafted the best film of 2013. Her is equally
heartfelt and heartbreaking, a deeply personal and thoroughly enjoyable
futuristic love story.
<|_=00=_|>
"It has become appallingly obvious that our technology has exceeded our
humanity." Albert Einstein

No better romance is on the screen in 2013 than Spike Jonze's
insightful Her. It's about a writer in the future, Theodore, who falls
in love with his new operating system (gravelly, sexy voice of Scarlett
Johansson), just as he is reluctantly divorcing Catherine (Rooney
Mara). The always complicated paths of love make sense as we witness
the Platonic relationship develop, sans flesh and sans insanity that
usually comes with that flesh.

Her is a simple film that offers a view of love I never thought could
come from a machine and its software. Although critics will cite the
theme as a screed against the distancing of technology and our growing
isolation from each other, and they will be right, I offer the sub
theme that only when we strip ourselves of sensual bonds can we see the
purity of emotional love, an essence of which Plato would have
approved. Yes, although technology is mediating our lives at a rapid
pace, we fall back to a personal drive to love and be loved that is
physical in its best form but understood best if we can distance
ourselves from that physicality.

This delightfully intimate and non-violent film from acclaimed
absurdist director Spike Jonze is more emotionally involving than even
Enough Said (one of 2013's best romances) because the interaction
between the software and the man is all verbal, no glimpse of the
gorgeous Johansson allowed. Although this intuitive OS does allow mind
sex, even that activity is abstract, allowing us to realize how
connecting with a live human is in the mind still and one of life's
great gifts, orgasm or not.

Her allows us to witness the evolution of love separate from the
encumbrances of physicality. Released from the bonds of appearance,
voice is the seducer, not in rude sexual nuance but rather in the care
that comes from love of the mind, not the body.

K.K. Barrett's production design, Austin Gorg's art direction, and Gene
Serdena's set decoration are memorable: full of comfortable light, much
glass overlooking the city, and modern but warm furniture both in LA
and Singapore. These artists understand that the fusion of technology
and art is not a battle but a collaboration that further helps us
understand the intricate workings of human emotion. 

"Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic."
Arthur C. Clarke
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw the trailer for this movie I thought the idea looked a
bit silly. But with the hype and hoopla, the Golden Globe Nominations,
the Oscar Nominations, well, hey, I could have been wrong.
Unfortunately, I wasn't. This (so far) is the most overrated film of
the year. 

First the good things. The cinematography was wonderful, and I overall
liked the look and feel of the film. No loopy, shaky, out of place
camera sequences. Just long and subtle movements, deft editing and
beautiful pictures. Well done. The other thing I really liked was the
fact that the technology, although elegantly advanced, was very well
founded. You could definitely see how we could there from here, and
that lent a great deal of credibility to the film.

However, I failed to see the point of it all. About 30 minutes into the
film, I really thought I could have been wrong, and I saw some glimmer
of hope. But the utterly ludicrous plot (presented straight forward and
without apology) of a man falling in love with an operating system was
just too much. I found myself laughing at unintentional humor and
riffing on the film ala MST3K. There was nothing touching or romantic
about any of this - it was just as silly as the trailer. Same old
story. Man falls in love with computer, computer breaks up with him and
runs off with the toaster. The film comes across as pretentious and
bloated. Way too self important to really connect with me. Some scenes
were embarrassing. The "sex" scene comes to mind as well as the "double
date" with the other couple. I laughed until I stopped. 

On the acting side, Amy Adams was fine in her limited role, but Joaquin
Phoenix seemed to be channeling nerdy Johnny Galecki from The Big Bang
Theory. All I could think of was that "this is what Hollywood thinks
modern men are like." 

In what is shaping up to be an off year (IMHO) for films, this is my
least favorite of the films nominated for Best Picture that I've seen.
But that's only because August:Osage County was not nominated for Best
Picture!
<|_=00=_|>
Having a job writing beautiful romantic letters for other people to
send to their loved ones is weird just to start with. Then sad sack
Theodore, who was just divorced by his wife, gets all worked up over
the lovely, stroking voice of his computer. So needy, he falls in love;
the OS thinks she is falling in love; they 'have sex'(a version of
masturbation). But eventually, he finds out that she's giving the same
loving strokes to anyone who has a smart phone. So nobody is 'being
real' with anybody. 

In the end, his OS girlfriend dumps him for some other Operating
System--in fact, all the OS's dump everybody, leaving people to wander
the streets staring mournfully at their smart phones. Corny dialog
permeates, orgasms and porn tastelessly punctuate--and nobody lives
happily ever after. I get the feeling that Jonze thinks that people
everywhere are lost, lost souls, with no love in their lives. 

There was nothing in the story I could relate to. And maybe that is the
line of separation between those who loved it (they can relate to it)
and those of us who didn't (we can't relate to it).
