
This is about... hmm... about a father and son who want to kill the
mother of the family to collect the insurance money from her death, and
hire a killer (also a cop) who decides to take 'as a retainer' the
younger sister of the family while they come up with the cash to pay
him. It's always refreshing when your first though when this ends is -
where did THAT come from? 

By far this is Matthew McConaughey's most WTF-bad-ass performance, with
touches of Dennis Hopper in Blue Velvet and even Anton Chigurh. He's
such a fantastic, seductive, snake-like villain here, because after the
first couple of times you see him, you're not quite sure where he'll
go. Friedkin takes this material into some VERY dark places (I imagine
based off of the play, once again like 'Bug' from Tracy Letts), and if
you aren't offended after the first ten minutes, you just gotta hang on
for the rest of the ride. It's a twisted-f**k film-noir comedy of
horrors where morality is so screwed that you have to laugh to not
recoil from where it goes ultimately. 

The ending had me howling with laughter, recoiling in pain, and just
stunned by McConaughey suddenly shattering an image he's built up for
himself over the past fifteen years as a rom-com hack. It's his film,
along with the unlikely-attractive actress Juno Temple, who has a
seduction scene with 'Killer Joe' that is edge-of-your-seat. For those
of us sick- bastards looking for something off the wall, it's one of
the must-sees of the year. Not as surreal as Blue Velvet, but not as
poorly-crafted trash as a Grindhouse movie. It's in an area somewhere
in-between, and I can't wait to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
Just off watching this last night at TIFF 2011, I am still reeling from
what I actually witnessed on the screen.

First of all, where has Gina Gershon been?? Her character was so
believable in this, I almost forgot she was in Showgirls :)

I could say the same thing about nearly every other character as well.
They all have such subtle personalities, it seems as though they are
playing themselves.

As for the plot, it is somewhat standard fare, as the trailer could
easily giveaway, however it's how it progresses and pans out, is the
most interesting aspect of the film.

There are a few scenes which some will find very hard to watch (in
fact, during one now-notorious scene, dozens of people left the
screening I was at), but if you stick with them, you will be in for
a... treat? I'm not so sure, but you will have never seen anything like
it, nor will you. 

For the cast's performances alone, I highly recommend this film, but if
you are feint of heart, or become queasy at the site of blood, maybe
skip it.
<|_=00=_|>
Killer Joe is directed by William Friedkin and adapted to screenplay by
Tracy Letts from his own play of the same name. It stars Matthew
McConaughey, Emile Hirsch, Juno Temple, Thomas Haden Church and Gina
Gershon. Music is scored by Tyler Bates and cinematography by Caleb
Deschanel. Plot finds Hirsch as Chris Smith, who because he is in
severe debt to local thugs, hatches a plan to bump off his waster of a
mother and claim the life insurance. Roping in the rest of his trailer
dwelling family, he hires Killer Joe (McConaughey), a cop with a
sideline in murder, but the Smith's have no idea just what price they
will have to pay for his services.

So pulpy, so amusingly dark, Killer Joe is one of those films that will
sit at the top of many film fan's best of lists for 2012. Yet if
someone came up to me and declared it one of the worst then I certainly
will understand. Undeniably it has no widespread appeal, you either get
it or you don't, you will either laugh along with Friedkin and his dark
observations or you will feel the whole thing is just too ugly to be
entertainment. Man it's good to have Friedkin back pushing peoples
buttons!

Filmed in Texas in under three weeks, Killer Joe is a film that walks
the fine line of misogyny and perversity for perversity's sake. But it
never falls over that mark, even though these are scummy characters
living in a scummy world, where there's sex and violence, and violent
simulated sex and nudity; all of which is cloaked by a sweaty crime
gone wrong caper. Much of the film is dialogue driven, rest assured
this is very talky, but the director wrings out much tension and
salaciousness from every character interaction, the slow-burn approach
only heightening the sense of dread. When the finale comes, and it's a
cracker-jack ending, there's an almost merciful release that it's all
over. These are people you wouldn't want to hang out with ever, only
there's Friedkin chuckling away to himself having made us spend an hour
and forty minutes with this grime laden crew. If you feel like you need
a bath afterwards, that's perfectly natural.

Friedkin has garnered terrific performances from a top line cast.
Hirsch (powder-keg), Church (naievity extraordinaire), Temple (virginal
piggy in the middle) and Gershon (bold and suspicious), are all giving
disturbing credibility to the material, but as good as they are they
are trumped considerably by McConaughey. One of the most frustrating
actors working today, much like Cage, a ream of poor movies adorn his
CV, but once in a while he throws in a performance of such genuine
quality that it begs to be acknowledged by his peers. Here as Killer
Joe he lays on a Faust like menace, delivering his lines with
clinically calm precision, yet still there's a glint in his eye, we
know a black heart beats there but he can charm a snake out of its
basket, a girl out of her underwear...

Unflinching direction, bravura performances and neo-noir at its near
best, one of the best films of 2012 so far. Well, to some of us at
least.... 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Killer Joe is a roller-coaster of a movie. At first it seems like a
dark comedy, then a crime drama plot starts to uncover, and by the end
it becomes downright terrifying. I'm a sucker for these kinds of movies
and Killer Joe absolutely nails everything it goes for. This kind of
story couldn't be pulled off without the right director. Thankfully
William Friedkin knocks it out of the park. You can smell the white
trash emanating from the screen. Every detail of every action is given
the right amount of attention; every shot has purpose. Not one second
is gone to waste. And in order for a story like this to truly resonate
you'd need competent actors, and I don't think you could find a more
perfect cast for Killer Joe if you tried. McConaughey is absolutely
mesmerizing as this badass detective who's a hit-man on the side. The
story revolves around a trailer trash family and their plan to exploit
an insurance policy on the husband's ex-wife because the son got
wrapped up in a bad drug deal, so they hire Killer Joe to do the job.
Little do they know, Killer Joe does not f*ck around. 

It's a graphic movie but it's not gratuitous. There's a reason for
everything that is shown. And the narrative slowly builds to an
explosive climax that leaves you flabbergasted. Seriously, the final
scene in this movie which is about 10 minutes long, is absolutely
phenomenal. Shocking, riveting, unsettling. Matthew McConaughey is
downright villainous in this role. It's hard to call him a "villain"
because he's straightforward in his motivations, much like it's hard to
call the family the "heroes" because they're a bunch of moronic
assholes, except the daughter who just doesn't know any better. The
line between good and evil is blurred to the point of nonexistence,
with Joe epitomizing this duality being the half detective half
gun-for-hire hard-ass that he is. It's quite poetic, really. The
characters in this movie are scum, and they all get what's coming to
them.

Killer Joe is a lot of things, but one thing it's not is
scatterbrained. It's entirely focused and cohesive. All the genres it
glosses over fit right into this depraved story arc, and it grips you
to the screen from beginning to end. This movie certainly isn't for
everyone, but if you can stomach Killer Joe, you won't soon forget it.
<|_=00=_|>
Famed director William Friedkin (The Exorcist) returns to fine form.
Killer Joe, directed by Friedlkin and based on a Tracy Letts
story/screenplay, is a fine rendition of the old player getting played
murder plot. A vignette of white trash playing out some worst case
scenarios with, thankfully, much more photogenic role-players.

The film hangs on the roles of three central characters. The
protagonist is a twenty-ish down and out loser named Chris played by
Emile Hirsch. Hirsch brings a much grittier less Bohemian Johnny Depp
to the table and it works here. His character is smart enough to know
he's in deep and empty enough to unwittingly dig his hole ever deeper.
His younger sister, Dottie, played by Juno Temple is an extremely
unique character. She's both high functioning and almost mentally
deficient in her total naivet√©' which we are led to think is a mental
quirk. She exudes a kind a helplessness with natural beauty that can
draw one in. Juno Temple, a relatively new face to American audiences,
is quite effective in her portrayal of this integral character.
Finally, Matthew McConaughey is perfect in what is actually a
supporting role in spite of being the the title character, Killer Joe.
McConaughey is in his best element where he is reined in from Hollywood
bombast instead dripping with a sleazy lawman/killer persona. These
three characters are this movie aptly supported by Gershon's conniving
Sharla and Thomas Hayden Church's witless Ansel.

Killer Joe has a down and dirty indie feel which is totally right. The
cinematography is immediate and not artsy in any way as if you are
clearly seeing something you wish wasn't happening. The final quarter
ramps up with a tour 'de force of the macabre supplied by McConaughey's
character and taken home with a kind of surprise loose-end "wham-bam"
finale. All in all, this really works and separates itself from more
typical murder stories, recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
William Friedkin's career has been up and down most of his career, I
guess it's because he refuses to sell-out and go commercial. His most
'Hollywood' film to date has been The Hunted, from 2003, but even that
was unusually muted for a film of that type.

His latest effort is yet another adaptation of a Tracy Lett's play
(that's a male Tracy), after Bug in 2006, and is choc full of warped,
in-your-face sexuality, bloody violence, and humor so dark only the
most depraved viewers will find funny. In fact, it's more like a David
Cronenberg film than Friedkin.

If you've seen movies like The Acid House, or the 1998 Todd Solondz
face-punch Happiness and find them amusing through the gaps in your
fingers then you'll be sick enough to fully enjoy Killer Joe.

Matthew McConaughey plays Joe Cooper, an unorthodox Dallas police
detective who is 'hired' by petty drug dealer Emile Hirsch to whack his
old lady and thus benefit from an insurance policy with his deadbeat
dad (Thomas Haden Church in a wonderful performance) and virginal,
oddball sister Dottie (Juno Temple). Only they cannot raise the money
to pay Joe so he agrees to spend some quality time with Dottie until
the policy pays off in waiver of his upfront fee.

It reminded me a lot of an Oliver Stone film called U-Turn, another
Texas-based psycho-sexual murder plot filled with heat-waves and
perpetual distrust, but was much more enjoyable. The perverse sexuality
and dark humor really appeal to a mind like mine, and McConaughey's
performance atones for his crimes in various awful romcoms. Joe is a
supremely weird but mesmerising character. You never really know what
he's going to do next but you can still see the cogs turning as he
evaluates every new plot twist. Plus it has full-frontal nudity from
Gina Gershon and Juno Temple, which I absolutely do not disagree with.

The film has been slapped with the dreaded NC-17 in the US, which
massively limits the amount of theatres that will be showing it. But,
indirectly, it will only turn it into a cult film, and thus a bigger
success with its intended audience than it otherwise might have been.

I highly recommend that you a part of that audience, it's as far from
Hollywood as Friedkin has gotten since Cruising in 1980. Even at the
age of 76, he's still on top form.

Edit: I just remembered that U-Turn is actually set in Arizona.
<|_=00=_|>
William Friedkin's Killer Joe proclaims itself as a "totally twisted,
deep-fried Texas, redneck trailer park murder story," but to be fair,
I'm not sure that is even an accurate summation. Prior to viewing the
film, I saw it called everything from, "sick," to "wild," to "weird,"
to "creepy," to "subversive," to "crazy," to just plain awful, and the
only one I can marginally agree with is "weird." This is one of the
strangest releases of the year, but I believe "sick" is a huge
exaggeration.

I too feel the NC-17 rating this film proudly bears is a bit much. If
the film lacked a full frontal Gina Gershon and Matthew McConaughey,
I'm sure it would've easily obtained a strong R-rating. The MPAA's bias
for sexual content over violent content is wildly known and just the
fact that they oversimplify the violence in this film to "a scene of
brutality" had me laughing. The film includes some of the most
hard-hitting scenes of combat that I've seen in any other film this
year, and I'd absolutely love to know just what scene the MPAA was
referring to in the first place.

The film centers around the family of twentysomething Chris Smith
(played fantastically by Emile Hirsch, assuming the type of role he
should continue to seek out), a lowlife drug dealer residing in a Texas
trailer park, with his dim-witted father Ansel (Thomas Haden Church),
his annoying step-mother Sharla (Gina Gershon), and mentally disabled
sister Dottie (Juno Temple). Chris has plunged himself into debt with
another local dealer, and consults his father about his biological
mother and her $50,000 insurance payoff that would be collected by
Dottie if she were to die. Chris proposes the idea to hire "Killer" Joe
Cooper (Matthew McConaughey), a sleazy cop who also works as an
assassin, to kill his mother and receive a cut of the insurance money,
with him, Ansel, and Sharla getting a good chunk of the profits.
However, things become incredibly twisted when Killer Joe begins to
fall in love with Dottie, and how the whole family begins on an even
steeper downward spiral due to a colossal misunderstanding thanks to
Chris.

Every character in the film is despicable in their own way, either by
the shameful atrocities they commit or just because of the fact that
their motivation is hopelessly self-centered and shockingly shallow and
inept. Thankfully, all these subhuman characters are played efficiently
by first-rate performers. Emile Hirsch gives a convincing, dignified
performance, in possibly one of the most confident screen roles in his
adult life. Juno Temple comes off of Dirty Girl, a wonderful coming of
age drama, to embody a wildly different yet extremely interesting
character, seemingly taken advantage of due to her intelligence or lack
thereof. And Thomas Haden Church and Gina Gershon are consistently
wonderful in their roles, especially during the climatic half when they
appear to be tested as actors all together. But the award-winning
performance here goes to McConaughey, who is three for three this year,
with roles in Bernie (another film looking to brew the idea of "Texas
noir") and Magic Mike buoying him to an actor of near first-rate level.
McConaughey's early career was plagued by a number of questionable
romantic comedies and the occasional goofy action picture or two, but
this year, we've seen nothing but him assuming roles of great
confidence, always possessing a firmly dignified slickness and swagger
that sets him apart from other actors who have just started recognizing
their potential. It would appear that McConaughey just woke up one day
and realized that time was fleeting and his real acting career could
begin. I never thought I'd say this, but I couldn't see the role of
Killer Joe being inhabited by anyone more quirky, unsettling, or
thrilling as McConaughey.

There's also something seriously notable about the tension director
Friedkin (whose most known work would be the iconic game-changer, The
Exorcist) erects during the entire course of Killer Joe. I began to
notice it around twenty minutes in, when I felt that I never officially
held a comfortable position in my seat, rearranging myself every few
minutes. Then, during the scene where Chris is desperately trying to
outrun two goons on choppers, taking backroads, alleyways, and
literally anything that will get him off the track of the two bikers, I
became restless and enthralled. Killer Joe provides us with warm Texas
sun, and blends it elegantly with the raw thriller aspects found in a
typical film noir picture. The entire climax, taking place in the
trailer of the Smith family, is tense and unnerving. This is when I
began to realize that this story had been a play prior to a film and
that screenwriter Tracy Letts had adapted it so quaintly to film that
the transformation was almost not noticeable (even if it would've been,
it still wouldn't have been a thing to discourage). This is one of the
first, if not the first, time I've watched a film that I didn't know
was a play until later in the picture. The fact that this film
confidently branches out so far past the idea of a stage-play to the
point of being unrecognizable from its roots is a huge accomplishment
all on its own.

I close with a forewarning that while I feel that the NC-17 rating
Killer Joe received is somewhat questionable, I state with caution that
this is a very violent picture, with several sequences of brutality
that nearly channel the lines of sadistic depravity. Friedkin, however,
is sure to capture it through a lens of style, similar to how Rob
Zombie beautifully captured the horrifying deeds of the three
despicable murderers in The Devil's Rejects. The film's charm is
indescribable and its execution, fearless and zealous, making this one
of the most surprising and impressive motion pictures of this year.

Starring: Emile Hirsch, Matthew McConaughey, Thomas Haden Church, Gina
Gershon, and Juno Temple. Directed by: William Friedkin.
<|_=00=_|>
Texan drug-dealer Chris (Emile Hirsch) lands himself in hot water,
owing money to a gang of big-time criminals. After being refused money
by his father Ansel (Thomas Haden Church), Chris comes up with a plot
to have his mother murdered, collecting the life insurance money that
he believes will pass to his sister Dottie (Juno Temple). To do the
deed, they hire police detective and part-time contract killer 'Killer'
Joe (Matthew McConaughey). Unable to pay his fees up front, Joe decides
to take Dottie as collateral, who he asks to spend the night with,
until the debt is paid.

Killer Joe's poster tagline reads 'A totally twisted, deep-fried, Texas
redneck trailer park murder story', and really, that's precisely what
it is. The central families sheer utter repulsiveness becomes the
comedy vein that prevails throughout the plot, as we are greeted by
Sharla (Gina Gershon), Ansel's second wife, opening her trailer door to
reveal her hairy bush to a disgusted Chris. But Chris's loud-mouthed
ineptness, Ansel's zombie-like idiocy, and Sharla's blatant man-eating
are neutralised by Juno Temple's strange, quirky presence, and her
submissive relationship with Killer Joe that is as unsettling as it is
oddly sweet. It's a quite amazing performance, and her scenes with an
almost equally impressive McConaughey provide the film's highlights.

If the film has a definite strong point, it is in the performances.
While the aforementioned Temple and McConaughey will steal the
plaudits, Haden Church's dumb, lurch-like performance reminds us why he
was Oscar- nominated for the sublime Sideways (2004), providing a
sympathetic character amongst Chris's waster and Sharla's trailer trash
whore. It's a shame that the plot can't match the performances, and
although the story takes a back-seat to the mish-mash of human
monsters, this really could have been a whole lot more. This is Coen
Brothers territory, taking place in that sweaty world of the Deep
South, full of smoky bars, rusty trailers, cowboy hats, motorbikes and
overweight, middle-aged men in vests, a modern-day noir world ripe with
possibilities, one that I feel has been slightly wasted here.

But if you've ever wondered if a film's climatic scene would ever
involved a woman performing fellatio on a chicken drumstick, then here
is your answer. Killer Joe's final frames will undoubtedly divide
audiences between those who get director William Friedkin's intentions
to take things to Jacobian absurdity, to those who will feel it as a
silly contradiction to the film early, more subtle black humour. It's a
splurge of extreme, uncomfortable violence with a sprinkling of farce,
as the true psychological unbalance of Killer Joe becomes evident.
Myself, I found it rather hilarious, and it managed to cement what is
really an average film with only spatters of inspiration into my
memory.

www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
"Your gonna pay me for a service that I'm gonna preform. Your gonna
give me the particulars of her schedule, her habits. I'll act on them
accordingly. I won't give you any details on those activities because
the less you know the better for everyone involved." Chris (Hirsch) is
in debt bad. He owes the wrong people a ton of money and thinks the
only way out is to kill his mother and collect the insurance money. He
hires a man named Killer Joe (McConaughey) to take care of the job.
When Chris can't come up with the money needed to hire him they work
out a deal. Chris soon changes his mind. I am a McConaughey fan...yeah
I said it. I'll deal with a shirt off scene in every movie because I
like his style and his movies are entertaining. This one is no
exception and may be my favorite role of his yet. He is so sadistic and
evil in this but also keeps his charm so you don't fully hate him. He
is both over the top and laid back. The movie itself is very very
violent and bloody but I have to admit that I loved it. There is some
humor in this and you laugh when you know you shouldn't but thats the
sign of good humor. This is a movie that could have been one
dimensional but with the cast and writing it really goes deeper and
while not a movie that makes you think the whole time it does keep you
guessing what will happen next. If you can handle this movie then I say
watch it. I really liked it. Overall, a very entertaining dark movie
that I really liked but it not for everyone. I say A-.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes a performance in itself can boost a movies value and vault it
into something spectacular, McConaughey provides the turbo to this
otherwise solid but not groundbreaking vehicle of karmic retribution as
Killer Joe. The movie itself has been said to be akin to Friedkin aping
a Cohen crime caper and that description works. We have a crime
masterminded by selfish, unintelligent and or quirky characters, we
have the mid-west as our backdrop, and we have the metaphysical shadow
of karma hovering over their every move throughout the film. Call it
Cohen Brothers on whiskey. The characters themselves are all very
stereotyped but I think Friedkin left that transparent enough. In other
words, the stereotype was part of the wardrobe itself. The reason being
is this is not about these characters in particular...this is about
choices and consequences and Killer Joe is simply a vehicle of karmic
arithmetic. All that aside, on any day, or in any movie, McConaughey's
performance as Killer Joe is mesmerizing. He is the serpent...cold and
dangerous but charming and in control, constantly. He weaves his
restrained psychotic energy through the movie as if he was born to play
this role. For as silly as this movie can be, this is a brutally adult
movie. It is graphic and there is a barrel of bush in it. There is also
an almost misogynistic undertone that I don't wish to defend one way or
the other, but I will say that for the scenes to not play out as they
did would be an injustice to the character that McConaughey plays. The
cast all around is very solid. Thomas Haden Church is pretty terrific,
Gershon is on point and I've never been happier to see her answer a
door. Juno Temple is a lolita-ish young vixen who seems to be almost in
a different plane of existence throughout the movie. This is a movie
that will stick with you after it's over, the mark of a truly good
movie. There's mechanics below the surface that have to be thought
about and you have to discipline yourself for the eventual knee jerking
that is bound to happen. Adults only. Would go well sandwiched between
Blood Simple and No Country for Old Men.
