
The following review focuses on the portrayal of Hilly Kristal and
CBGB. I will leave criticism of the aesthetics of the film and the film
makers' skills to others with a less personal connection to the
material.

I knew they were going to get things wrong and I also knew they were
going to have to change and compress some things in order to tell a
coherent story in under two hours.

There's a lot they got right and a lot they got wrong and there's a lot
of good and bad in this movie.

One thing I have mixed feelings about was the decision for artistic
sake to use a lot of actual pieces of the original club as props. Since
this movie is set in the early to mid-1970's, highlighting the
beginning of CBGB and its early notoriety, many people who know
anything about underground music will find a number of things out of
place. For example, it's cool that they used the actual phone booth
from the club as a prop in the film, but when Alan Rickman as Hilly in
1974 is seen standing next to it with a visible 1993 CBGB twentieth
anniversary poster on the side, it can be distracting. There are tons
of stickers and flyers for bands from later years visible throughout
the movie and if you know your music, it can be a little distracting.

It was also evident that someone involved in the set design of this
film was a big fan of late 80's straight-edge as there are a
disproportionate number of Youth of Today and Gorilla Biscuits stickers
all over the interior.

Most of the big name bands of the 70's CBGB scene are represented here.
Some notable bands missing, but this is a movie and we can't expect
them to fit everyone. If you blink, you'll miss the two seconds an
actress playing Annie Golden of The Shirts is on screen. The music is
all lip synced studio recordings of the original artists which is good
because who wants to hear the actors doing covers? and bad because
every live performance sounds too perfect. Most bands are given very
little screen time as it is obvious the film makers are trying very
hard to fit as many in as possible, but each one is well represented
and there are little true to life touches, such as Johnny Ramone's
temper and Patti Smith's eccentricities, that are actually pretty
humorous.

Good The Dead Boys are featured heavily in this film (more than any
other band) and a lot of people who never heard of them before seeing
this film are going to be turned on to them. Rupert Grint actually does
a great job as Cheetah Chrome. The closest thing to a plot this film
has, aside from Hilly opening the club, is Hilly's decision to manage
the Dead Boys and get a record out. The film loosely follows this
effort right up to the stabbing of Johnny Blitz.

Bad (SPOILER!!) After the stabbing of Johnny Blitz, the film ends
quickly after Lisa and Merv come up with some money for Hilly. This is
completely anticlimactic and unnecessary. Since the film chose to close
shortly after the stabbing, they missed the opportunity to end the film
big, with the infamous Johnny Blitz benefits at CBGB.

Good Not only is John Holmstrom's story told here in the origin of
Punk magazine, but his actual art is used throughout the film in
various scene changes. Holmstrom is a good guy and deserves to have his
story told and I'm glad his art is getting exposure in this film.

Bad Savannah Georgia does not look like NYC. Okay, that's just a
quibble. I know it's a movie, but I just had to throw that in.

Good A few people I don't like were left out of this story and they're
probably very upset.

Bad Unfortunately, because of the legal dispute over Hilly's estate,
his ex-wife Karen and his son Dana, both of whom were there at the very
beginning of CBGB are left out of this story. Hilly's daughter Lisa is
the only family member shown working at the club with him.

Good Hilly's chili, dog waste everywhere, carnality on stage, Hilly
leaving money in his freezer, and countless other little details that
brought memories flooding back.

Bad not bad for the movie, but the scene where Hilly is chided for
forgetting to pay the rent will, unfortunately, only reinforce the
incorrect assumption that many still have to this day that CBGB closed
because of unpaid rent. Allow me to step away from my review for a
moment. For the record, that is not why we closed. Though the landlord
did improperly sue us over unpaid rent, it was just a dirty tactic to
get us out. The rent was always paid. The judge not only threw the
lawsuit out, but reprimanded the landlord for being so underhanded. Our
lease expired and the landlord did not renew.

Back to the movie The best thing about this movie and what made me
actually really like it was the way Hilly was portrayed. Not only did
Alan Rickman do a great job of capturing Hilly's mannerism and
personality... for all the faults those of us who nitpick will find in
this film, at its heart it is a sweet tribute to a great man. Hilly
could be difficult to understand (figuratively and literally) and could
have completely irrational emotional responses to some things for no
reason and no response to things that warranted reaction, but his heart
was always in the right place and he made CBGB a home for so many of us
and his employees were often an extension of his family. For everything
this film got right and everything this film got wrong, this was the
most important thing and they got it perfectly right.
<|_=00=_|>
As someone who was "there" but as an outsider (14-year-old kid from NJ
who idolized Punk magazine and especially the Ramones), I loved this
film. Yes, I recognize a number of liberties were taken with the truth,
but this film allowed me to relive the thrill I used to experience
going to CBGB's (as we called it) back in the day (I started going
around 1976 or so). Even more than that, it's great to get a glimpse of
how CBGB's came to be.

More than that, the film works great as a film in and of itself -- the
directing, pacing, acting and cinematography are all first rate, with
nary a dull or dead spot throughout (until the end, but I'll get to
that). I'm not generally one for tricks like the use of Holmstrom's art
to frame the story, but since it's Punk magazine we're talking about,
it makes perfect sense for this film.

The film just sails along -- I suppose partly because it's so much fun
to see the various bands, and how much fun the actors had portraying
the band members' quirks (the Joey Ramone character is spot on... ). In
fact, I would have liked it if the film had been extended to include
more of the early groups (they left out Suicide, who were everywhere
back then) and more of the live performances. I'm a little torn by the
decision to have them lip sync to album material -- on the one hand,
it's the music we remember, on the other hand, most of the bands have
live material available, even recorded at CBGB's, why not use some of
that? 

However, by the end... the film runs out of steam a bit. I think that
comes partly from the decision to focus a bit too much on the Dead Boys
storyline, knowing how doomed that band was, and how entirely
outclassed they were by most of the other bands featured (Television,
Talking Heads, Ramones, Blondie). Fortunately, the film only sags in
the last 15 minutes or so, and it's still not enough to spoil a fine
film dealing with a very important part of American -- and world --
music history.

For me, personally, this period shaped my entire life, certainly from
an aesthetic point of view. 

And great news! There's now a Best of Punk Magazine book available! (I
still have my original copies around somewhere, but I can't wait to
show this book to my kids!)
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a female guitarist, bassist and songwriter who immersed myself in
CBGBs and the original New York punk scene, who played at the club from
the end of the 70s until months before its closing. I'm also a
narrative filmmaker and believe I can fairly and objectively state the
skinny here, and am copying over an edited, revised review from my
website to fit in this rectangle: 

Many of the musicians and club-goers who survived the New York punk era
are a bit resentful they weren't included in the making of CBGB, a film
about the quintessential punk club CBGB Omfug, but 50,000 bands (I
quote this number from the film) passed through its portals since its
founder, Hilly Kristal, opened its doors on Manhattan's
flophouse-flavored Bowery. And, though the CBGB movie is flawed, it is
still a lovely tribute to Hilly. 

The brilliant actor Alan Rickman uncannily captures aspects of Hilly's
personality and his dedication to all who passed through his "school of
rock." This performance couldn't have been better. Director Randall
Miller and Jody Savin have written a quirky script with heart, which
includes some clever one-liners, and director Miller's work shines in
scenes between Hilly and his co-workers. The sound mixmusic often has
dialogue interspersedis excellent.

What you won't get in this film is the essence of punk attitude.
Rather, the film documents the struggles Hilly Kristal went through to
provide a platform for new music. And in that context, this film
succeeds.

It is, however, frustrating that there is a huge miss in the portrayal
of the punk scene without its high decibel deadpan, often
self-deprecating humor that underlies its aesthetic. For example,
though they achieve one such moment with Hilly's mother and Joey Ramone
discussing a bowl of chili, elsewhere the script ignores the Ramones
were inherently funny dudes from Queens, though the actors achieve a
verisimilitude in appearance. (They do peg Johnny Ramone's tendency to
tantrum.) Ergo, there is a lack of credibility in the portrayal of
Debbie Harry of Blondie without her teasing tongue-in-cheek attitude;
and in the portrayal of Stiv Bators, lead singer of the Dead Boys.
Rupert Grint succeeds in affecting a stoner rock and roller in his role
(a fun change for his fans from his goody-goody Ron Weasley days), but
is not coming across with the love-of-the-instrument joy of the young,
Dead Boys' guitarist Cheetah Chrome, though they do share the red hair.
Kyle Gallner as Lou Reed is not in the ballpark at all. Ashley Greene,
playing Hilly's daughter, Lisa, comes nowhere close to the stoic
teenager who worked for her father and later attended law school
(Hilly's CBGBs co-owner ex-wife and son are not portrayed in the film).
It seems more care could have been taken with adhering to truth with
these talented young actors who otherwise turn in acceptable acting
performances. 

As well, the ekphrasic device of movie turned into comic book, special
effects popping in and out, while a clever nod to Punk Magazine,
becomes distracting. It would likely have worked with a more restrained
editing hand.

On the other hand, Mickey Sumner, Sting's real-life, extraordinarily
talented actress daughter, sublimely metamorphoses into Patti Smith. In
a brief, heart pounding stage performance, she exudes the true essence
of punk; this offers a glimpse, alas, of the promise of what this
film's portrayal of the punk scene could have been. A standout is
Taylor Hawkins as Iggy Pop. And Freddy Rodriguez nearly steals the film
with his riveting performance as the drug addict, Idaho.

I adore they include the story of a biker gang leader famously agreeing
to keep his group out of the club: This alludes to a real event that
happened with the Hell's Angels. They were often protective of
neighborhood denizens despite their tendency to start a ruckus or
frighten patrons of CBGBs with their presence. As well, the story of
Hilly's early life is worked into the story in a charming way. 

When Genya Ravan, one of the first women of rock, berates the Dead Boys
about the swastika stickers on their instrument cases as their manager,
Hilly, is Jewish, it isn't mentioned that Genya herself was a survivor
of the Holocaust. Cowed, the Dead Boys remove them. However, while this
scene awkwardly makes the point that punks were not Nazis, creepy
symbols were brandished as part of the punk aesthetic. Anything that
would annoy was the point, and this extended to personal adornment,
attitude, song lyrics, music, all a backlash to the wholesome Brady
Bunch, height-of-disco world most of the punks came from and that still
existed everywhere but in the the thimbleful of punk clubs, its daytime
hub around St. Mark's Place in the East Village; in its beginnings,
punk was a small, insular world.

It is a disappointment that certain seminal punk bands are not
mentioned, like the New York Dolls or the Stilettos. To know what these
bands were really like one will still have to go to Youtube, or look at
films made during the punk era like Blank Generation, which stars
Richard Hell who played with the Heartbreakers and his own band, the
Voidoids.

Beyond using the history of punk rock emerging as the backdrop of the
film, it really is not a film about punk rock. Ultimately, CBGB is a
character study of the unassuming Hilly Kristal who gave us a stage to
work our songs. He gave advice. He gave encouragement. He made sure we
got our splits at the door. He made us feel CBGBs was our home, that we
were a familial extension of his own family. 

So do go see this film for Alan Rickman's performance. Do go see this
film about an unassuming man whose efforts gave a platform to fresh new
voices when no one else was doing so. Do go see this film about a quiet
man who brought loud music to the world.
<|_=00=_|>
Look, full disclosure: I didn't have any of the baggage of ever hearing
of or being at CBGB. I lied to get into the preview: (I'm sixty one and
the cutoff was 60). I didn't fancy myself a fan of punk. Didn't really
even know what it was. I LOVED this movie start to finish. The story,
the texture, the music all lifted me into a different world. The cuts
between this punk magazine and this story amazed me as they worked. The
music is a dream collection and the quirky story of the accidental
birth of this genre of music made me smile end to end. That there is a
Jewish back story to punk music, the Godfather of punk, the lunacy of
swastika sporting musicians given their chance in life by a Yid, just
made it the sweeter. If this movie makes it to your area ever (which it
probably won't in Portland, Oregon), race to it and enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
Okay first of all if your a big fan of one particular artist or more in
the story and are expecting their role (or even their personality) to
be fleshed out, chances are you will be disappointed. They are all
(aside from the Dead Boys) limited to cameos and as such some people
find they are a little generic. I'm not sure how much depth people
expect in what often amounts to less than a minutes screen time, but
there you go. It is not a long movie and it would have been impossible
to do justice to everyone involved in that music scene in such a short
time. In the restraints they had, I believe they did well enough.

Secondly there are some liberties taken with the actual music. It
didn't matter to me as it was all great music, but if your picky on
such things that may irritate you. An example of this is that the
Ramones don't actually play any Ramones tracks, instead they player a
Joey Ramone solo track that was released later. I don't really
understand why they made those choices, but that is the way it is. Some
people may feel the "live" sound isn't gritty enough. Again, I had no
problem here, I wanted to hear good music and I did.

Perhaps those that get the most out of this films are those that like
the music but aren't huge fans of anyone in specific. This is where I
fell and I have to say I thoroughly enjoyed it. I laughed and I cried
and when it finished I was happy. Alan Rickman is the centrepiece of
this film and that I think will make this enjoyable to the majority of
viewers (as the IMDb average suggests) as he is as solid as ever. The
rest of the cast is reasonable but no one stands out. The sets look
very accurate (from what I can tell at least) and the whole thing is
quite believable.

Taken out of the historical context this is basically a light hearted
comedy about a growing music scene and a guy with passion, kindness and
absolutely no business acumen. It feels like a "British Comedy" which
for many will be fine, but given the topic is a New York club some may
feel it inappropriate. If you read this review and still want to see
the film then you will no doubt enjoy it as much as I have (or more).
<|_=00=_|>
I saw it on the big screen, and it was good! The film comes with a
great soundtrack and lots of laughs too. The theater audience around me
seemed to be enjoying the film. I was there at CBGB during this time
period, and my band The Laughing Dogs played there. One of our songs is
in the soundtrack. I am glad that this movie was made and I appreciate
that the movie preserves the history of the place and of Hilly Kristal.
Hilly provided opportunities to a lot of bands and a place for bands to
play their original music. Many bands got signed with record labels
after performing at CBGB. I found the sets and characters looked like
the real thing, as if I was back there. I have written a more thorough
review on my website.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw the CBGB Movie last night... Great job! no car crashes.. just
Hilly's truck, no alien invasion, no love story unless you count the
part with.. Well, I wont mention any names.. Just a story about a
little club that could.. at least for a little while. Alan Rickman did
capture the essence of Mr. K.. this is not a documentary so I did not
mind the time line of certain things not being accurate, it was
entertaining and if you were not fortunate enough to have been there
back in the day you can still learn a thing or two about the beginnings
of Punk Rock. Yes there were many bands that played that stage and some
are upset for not being included.. perhaps writing scathing reviews.. I
was happy to be there "cant all be rock stars" Great tribute to Hilly
at the end when Talking Heads were added to R&R Hall of Fame. I loved
it and do want to see it again!
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I love Alan Rickman so it pains me to say this - why was he
cast in this role? He sleepwalks through the whole thing. And I was
told he was supposed to be all New York-y. He's about as New York-y as
the Queen. A jew-fro, 20 extra pounds and a wardrobe of overalls does
NOT make a character.

Now on to the real problem: who wrote this thing? Did YOU get any sense
of the importance or significance of CBGB watching this dumb movie?
Because I didn't. Mostly it seemed to be a movie about a guy who
steadfastly refused to pay his rent for no particular reason
whatsoever. If the real Hilly was this much of a moronic aye-hole
nobody would have had anything to do with him and history would not
have been made.

Now onto the "famous acts." These characters were paraded on in a
ridiculous fashion. Oooo, there's Blondie. Oooo, there's Taylor Hawkins
being Iggy. Oooo, there's the Ramones and the Talking Heads and a
glimpse of Annie Golden and Harry Potter's friend in the Dead Boys. And
why were those polished studio recordings used every time someone
"played"? Where was the rawness? There was no sense of the growth of
these bands or the growth of the club and there was no sense of what
Hilly really meant to anyone. Remember in the final credits and they
show Tina Weymouth at the RnR Hall of Fame bringing Hilly on stage with
them and she talks about how Hilly FED them, and NURTURED them and blah
blah blah. Did you see ANY of that in this movie? No.

Finally...what was up with that comic book style? What in the world has
this got to do with comic books?
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to like this movie, but it was flawed in many ways. In
summary, 1) no cohesive story 2) an uninteresting main character 3) not
believable. 

It was obvious to me that the creators were not real fans of the music,
but rather looking to capitalize on a genre they 'thought' would make a
good movie. They cast Stiv Bators to be a callous, brash, jerk who
didn't care about Johnny Blitz's stabbing. He was, in fact, nothing
like that. He was thoughtful, soft spoken, and incredibly upset about
that incident. Another case in point, there were stickers all over the
walls from the 90's & 2000's (ex. Naked Aggression, OFF!) when the
Ramones were first taking the stage. Oops.

I also couldn't stand the way that Lisa Kristal, an executive producer
of the film, clearly tried to make it seem like she had the vision for
CBGB's (by telling her dad that this was the next big thing) or that
she 'saved' the club from financial ruin, when in fact, this is
complete nonsense. 

In a tiny cameo, they portrayed Iggy Pop as a fool, as well, when he,
not Hilly, is widely considered the 'Godfather' of punk. These people
were not nihilistic morons, as they were portrayed. They were
intelligent artists, making a statement against the music of the time
(Foghat, Pink Floyd, etc). And yes, Hilly was lucky enough to be in the
right place at the right time to give them a venue, but that fact alone
does not make him a very interesting main character. 

As a fan, I wanted this movie to be good, but it was just so wrong on
so many levels. I'm sure everyone that was around to remember it feels
the same way, too.
<|_=00=_|>
When I finished this movie my first reaction was - WoW - what an
experience CBGB would have been. Of course I realize the movie is not a
historical chronicle of life and time of Hilly and his CBGB. The movies
first intent is to entertain the viewer - and it does entertain very
well.

I think the director and writers wanted to show the beginnings of the
Punk Rock phenomenon paralleled by the beginnings of CBGB which would
grow in fame just as the punk movement grew internationally. So the
focus of this film is the beginning of three things - CBGB, punk
rockers, and Hilly's personal beginning finding his way through his
vision.

Alan Rickman gives a top notch performance as Hilly and the supporting
cast do just as well, which makes this a diamond of a movie. The music
may be too 'studio perfect' but how many people that will see this
movie actually heard these bands live in their early days. Most all of
us know these bands by their records.

Give this a look - it's quite a story with a really lovable dog too!!
