
Louis Zamperini's story of survival was robbed of all feeling and
emotion in this screen portrayal. Jolie has cast a very flat, laconic,
and unconvincing crew of young Abercrombie models who lack the depth of
seasoned actors who would have otherwise convinced us that there was
actual pain and suffering throughout this. After a month afloat on a
raft the three men's hair was well-groomed and one even had a goatee
(are there razors in the survival kit?). I felt like I was watching
Casper Van Dien in Starship Troopers; if you have seen this movie you
will know exactly what I am taking about. Read the book - it will give
you the emotion and satisfaction you are entitled to from this survival
story.
<|_=00=_|>
!May contain Spoilers!

This movie does little beyond telling the story of Louis Zamperini -
and it does so with a lot of missing details, no character growth, and
contains little else than drawn out scenes of suffering.

The movie is very similar to The Passion of the Christ in that the film
shows little progression except when the main character is shown
suffering in some way. The characters shown in the movie, Louis and
"The Bird" being chief among them, have little to no backgrounds,
motivations, or growth / story arcs. 

Louis is shown first as a troublesome child, then a youth learning to
run, then an Olympian, and finally a soldier; between these scenes,
however, there is no transition, no story about him deciding to go for
the Olympics, and no story on whether he was drafted or voluntarily
signed up to be a soldier. This results in the movie being very oddly
paced and Louis having little substance to his background.

Louis, while suffering in the Japanese prison camp, is never shown
thinking "I can't do this" or progressing to the point that he
determines "I will make it out alive no matter what." He is simply
tortured, repeatedly beaten and humiliated, and finally the war simply
ends.

Strangely enough, no other prisoners or "extras" are shown being killed
/ executed at the camp, which does little to help show the brutality of
their conditions. 

Finally, the movie ends with written paragraphs on-screen which detail
his life back in the US and how he forgave his captors. One of the
biggest rules of film is to "show them, not tell them," and considering
that the written part of the story at the end contains more interesting
parts of his life than most the movie, it seems the film was barely
able to "show us" as well.

The source material for the movie; Louis's story, is extraordinary and
exciting, its unfortunate that the movie does very little to give it
justice.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot begin to list all the things wrong with this movie. Granted
the acting was very good, however, it was the longest 2 hours of my
life. I kept waiting for something 'good' to happen and it never did. I
believe this could have been a wonderful American story, but was
nothing short of a huge let down. Really disappointed in how much this
movie was hyped up. Painfully slow, and felt like two hours of literal
purgatory. I am sure that his true story was much better and could have
emphasized what his family was going through at the same time. Or
possible they could have shown what the news had reported about him,
and what the airforce was doing to look for him. Wish I could erase
this one from my memory. The worst part is I feel this man was done a
real disservice to his memory and honor.
<|_=00=_|>
***May Contain Spoilers*** The story of Louis Zamperini is only half
told in Angelina Jolie's "Unbroken." After watching a screening of this
film I did a little internet research on Mr. Zamperini and found that
his life post-war, in my opinion, was equally emotional, meaningful and
film worthy as his POW years. This film, while beautifully shot, lacked
the true depth of Zamperini's life. In the beginning of the film,
Angelina Jolie goes overboard in showing the viewer his early life and
his Olympic journey. Next up are the war years and POW torture. The
End. In addition to not feeling anything toward Zamperini's chief
brutalizer, the torture scenes were way too long. After a few scenes
viewers will get the point that this man went through Hell. What
happens after the war is where the real story begins and where
"Unbroken" stops. Louis Zamperini's struggles continued for quite some
time until he found God. This new journey took him back to Japan where
he sought out his captors and forgave them. However, his nemesis, the
Bird, did not want to meet him...but Zamperini tried. I would have
liked to see more of Zamperini's post-war PTSD struggle as this is such
a relevant topic today, culminating with his will to forgive which
ultimately saved him. For those who are only interested in Zamperini as
an Olympian and POW, then you will appreciate this film. I found this
film failed to address the full life of Louis Zamperini and felt his
wikipedia entry would have been a better guide for Jolie.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot understand the negative reviews of this movie ,are the themes
of bravery,endurance and forgiveness outdated?It is well known that the
regeime of Japanese prison camps was cruel to say the least.The acting
of the lead players was faultless proving again that British and Irish
actors can play the roles of Americans.I found the movie moving,
inspirational. Yes it was violent but not gratious. Ms Jolie is to be
congratulated on her directing. One question did the leads fast for
their roles or was CGI used to give the impression of their skeletal
frames.The ariel dog fights did use use computer enhancement as did the
plane crash.I found this movie much more watchable than the much
praised"American Sniper"
<|_=00=_|>
I have to believe if in the hands in a more experienced director this
film would have been much better than what is presented on the screen.
The storytelling is mediocre and lacks the intensity that it should be
considering what happen to this airman. I am disappointed that the
script was so weak considering who had their hands in rewriting it. It
totally lacks the normal Coen style, perhaps it was there and Jolie
just could not figure out how to put it on screen. Now don't get me
wrong, she manages to get the gore and suffering all right, but that is
all we every really get. It would have been nice to see how that
effects him in his later life and because we only see this small slice
of his extraordinary life we are left wondering what the nightmares he
survived as a POW changed him later and how he survived the nightmares
he endured later on suffering from PTSD.
<|_=00=_|>
Just came out of a pre-release screening. It was fine. Above all, the
word I would use would be "safe". It was a movie created not to fail,
and it doesn't. Watching it is a reasonable way to spend 2 and a half
hours. A bunch of bad stuff happens to Zamperini, he survives it in an
inspiring way, the end.

IMDb movie reviews have to be 10 lines, but Unbroken doesn't really
deserve it. There's more to be said about Zamperini the person than the
film itself. It was narratively predictable, but that's forgivable
given the nature of the film. The problem is it was visually
predictable too. If someone were to right a textbook on how to make an
inspiring movie, they could dryly and apathetically describe this movie
shot for shot. So...hoorah I guess. It was fine.
<|_=00=_|>
Unbroken (2014)

Heartbreaking, inspiring true story, told and directed in straight up
high quality realism. There is some true intensity in the fighting
scenes, in the survival scenes on the raft, and in the prison camp with
its torture and hardship. And this is balanced by determination and
hope.

If that sounds generic, in a way that fitsthe movie follows some tried
and true formulas. The beginning has us with the hero, Louis Zamperini
(played by Jack O'Connell), in a big bomber heading for some targets
against Japan in WWII. As trouble begins, leading to the crash which
makes up the real start of the movie, we also get flashbacks to his
simple Italian-American childhood. This is effective, but it's
sentimental stuff. And it lets you know the kind of wholesome
intentions of the movie.

There is a lot going on here, in three main sections: running,
surviving on a raft, and the prison camps. That Zamperini suffers and
endures is the point of the film, and in that way the narrative is very
straight forward. There are villains and buddies. The skies rain bombs
and the sea is full of sharks. Some people are merciless, and others
kind. But in the middle, through every turn and travail, is Zamperini.
"If you can take it, you can make it," is a mantra in the film, and
that's the message.

The direction and photography were first ratevery subtle in a
spectacular way (or vice versa). It's a truly fine film, and director
Angelina Jolie (in her second feature, after a terrible first try) does
a really good job. The story, co-written by the Coen brothers and
others, based on a book by Laura Hillenbrand, is a great bit of
history, quite sensational stuff.

So why did we leave the movie feeling just so-so about it all? I'm not
sure how to nicely say this, but it's really a good story, well told,
lacking some quality of surprise or depth it really needs to rise
above. As amazing as the photography and editing (and so on) are, it's
all in service to a fairly ordinary kind of story. Not that this man's
life is ordinary at all, but the way it develops and is told is oddly
routine, as narrative storytelling.

Good stuff, for sure. It's a bit hard to take sometimes for its
brutality--there is a lot of graphic, personal violence--and the
Japanese camps are portrayed as truly cruel (which many in Japan object
to). But it's an impressive movie in many ways.
<|_=00=_|>
Although it is an exceptional story in it's own right, the film fails
to dazzle or inspire as the book did. It never fully materializes into
the epic experience it wants to be. The script was problematic from the
get-go. Attributing a mans extremely brutal POW experience with a
spiritual awakening and strength in God does not translate well on the
big screen. Blending those two subject matters together in a seamless
way while maintaining the violent theme that the director imposes on
the audience just doesn't work. This films tries to be too many things
so naturally it fails to be anything. You cant please everyone.The buzz
over the last two years promoting this film really boosted my
expectations. Only to feel extremely let down and honestly, conned.
Perhaps it was a lack of budget or the lack of talent behind the
screen. On screen the talent was impressive and I think we have found a
new budding star in newcomer Jack O'connell. Very impressive indeed.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very disappointed in what should have been, hands down, an Oscar
contender. I cannot recommend this movie to anyone because the
direction absolutely ruined this film, which misses the point of the
book altogether. Laura Hildebrand's wonderful book immediately reaches
the reader's heart as she connects Louie Zamperini's life story of
growing up from a kid headed towards a life of crime to becoming a man
who not only survived the most unbelievable odds but also how the human
spirit can sustain anything, if wanted. Never during the two + hours
does the viewer get to know the character, or his friends, family and
comrades-in-arms. Maybe Ms. Jolie should have spent more time reading
the book and trying to understand the emotional connect the book had
with its readers than planning all her promotional interviews and short
documentaries which focused only on her and how fortunate she was to
have been chosen to direct the film. It's not about you, Angelina, it
was about a remarkable life and humanity, and you missed it all.
