
After Earth (2013) 

* (out of 4)

M. Night Shyamalan's big-budget vanity project for father and son team
Will and Jaden Smith turns out to be much worse than the trailer. In
the film, the father and son crash land on the planet Earth a thousand
years after the people were forced to leave it. With daddy's legs
broke, the young kid must go out into the scary landscape to retrieve
an item that will allow them to make contact with their own world.
AFTER EARTH is without question one of the worst sci-fi summer
blockbusters ever made. Part of the blame can go towards the director
but his handful of haters can't put everything on him. The incredibly
bad screenplay also deserves a lot of the blame but so do the Smith
boys. I seem to say this after each of his films but it's clear young
Jaden has yet to take an acting class and just keeps getting passes
because of his dad. I'm sorry but he's just not got a talented bone in
his body and he certainly can't show any type of emotion, which is
something the story here called for. The fact that he can't act to save
his life really kills every emotion that the film goes for and it turns
these scenes into something rather laughable. Mr. Will Smith doesn't
come in any better. Although I liked his more quiet, laid back style,
it just doesn't work considering the screenplay has him sitting around
simply talking to the kid. Where Will deserves a lot of blame is
getting his son these type of roles, which he can't do and which will
eventually make him one of the most laughable actors in Hollywood
history. The first couple films he did were just embarrassing but no
one has given him the word that he can't act and apparently no one has
seen fit to get him into classes so it's really just getting worse.
Still, Shyamalan didn't improve the film any as there's really no
drama, no suspense and no tension. It also doesn't help that the
screenplay is full of clich√© moments as well as being 100% predictable.
I will say that some of the visuals were good but certainly not good
enough to sit through this thing.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a Will Smith fan since Fresh Prince, but in the last
several years his on-screen personae and talents have been severely
lacking. It is with no small amount of regret that I must say this is
the bottom of the barrel for Smith. The short version of it is this:
Will has no personality in this movie whatsoever, his non-talented son
Jaden is absolutely laughable as a lead figure, the plot drags along
for seemingly unending hours with little or no excitement or humor or
intrigue to keep our attention or interest, and the underlying themes
and tone is nothing more that pure hype for the scientology church. I
don't say this very often about most movies...but I seriously would
like my $10 and 3 hours of wasted time and money back. This one is a
serious stinker
<|_=00=_|>
First, I am a HUGE sci-fi fan and love most sci-fi movies but this was
just wrong on so many levels. Bad acting.... No plot.... Story was all
overthe place...you couldn't get a good understanding of what was going
on in the movie. Graphics & visuals were so,so. I would wait for
DVD/Blu Ray and even then I would avoid this movie. I feel like they
made a movie just so Will Smith's son could star in it. Save your
money. Trust me, you will thank me! I almost walked out of the theater
at one point because it just wasn't worth sitting through anymore of
its. ..... ..... ..... Nothing else to say. Just save your money! Why
Will Smith? You had a pretty good rep on movies now you're starting the
Tom Cruise slide into just making a movie cause you think you should.
<|_=00=_|>
I do not know what I want to say, but I want to say something so people
won't waste money on this piece of whatever one wants to call it. 

I am a big SciFi fan, yet something like that I never experienced. Was
it the effects that ruined it, was it the lame story, the extra-lame
acting of the second Smith in the movie, the directing of someone who
got after Signs too much credit and couldn't deliver since (with the
exception of the low budget Devil). I really cant say. Its just very
disappointing and I wished I would not have seen it, not spend the time
nor the money. But I wanted to know it for myself if the critics are
right, since they are so many times wrong (in my opinion). 

Well, they are right, and yet they even gave the movie way too much
credit. Probably because of Will Smith.

The year is not over, but I do not think that After earth will be
topped in the category for "the worst movie of 2013"!
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a space craft that crash-landed on a dangerous
planet called Earth, and the only two survivors have to struggle to
stay alive.

The first few minutes of "After Earth" already look not so promising,
and it only goes downhill from there. Acting is consistently bad by
Jaden Smith, he is so annoying as a teenager who constantly freaks out.
Will Smith is supposed to be a fearless commander, but his supposed
bravery makes him so wooden as if he was a wax statue.

The plot is simply ridiculous. There are so many plot holes that are so
obvious, that they simply should not happen. For example, if Will Smith
is such a great commander, how could he not command people to wear seat
belts when they were about to hit a meteor shower. And the masks are
not even connected to anything!? The whole story, from the macro level
to the micro level is very poorly written and makes no sense. The
supposed emotional climax is so weak, that I wonder if that scene is
really supposed to make me feel proud of what is shown on the screen.

"After Earth" is a terrible mess. This time, believe the critics.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film with my girlfriend expecting to see another great
film by Will Smith. After you have seen him in films like I am Legend,
I robot and other great films. I thought this would be yet another. I
was poorly mistaken, the acting was terrible. from both Will Smith and
his son. I cant help but feel his son only gets parts in films due to
his fathers fame. Maybe if the boy were to sell popcorn and soda to
people, his contributions to the film industry would be more welcoming.
As his acting is far below par. The film was so shockingly boring that
my girlfriend and I left the cinema 20min before the film ended. As a
few other people had done before us. Avoid this film like the plague.
If I could have given it no stars I would have. Bad story line, bad
acting, bad film.
<|_=00=_|>
After Earth should be retitled After Birth, because that is exactly how
sloppy and dirty this pathetic excuse for a film is. Gross analogy, I
know, but trust me, a delivery room after a woman has given birth is a
better produced show then this. I honestly don't even know where to
start. The film decided to market itself as a Will Smith film, which
was the only way to get people to go because of how silly its plot is.
Even the Will Smith fans were let down because all he does is sit in a
chair the whole time and speak to his son in an over-serious and
unintentionally hilarious monotonous voice. He easily gives his worst
performance to date, but it is not quite the worst acting in the film.
Jaden Smith gives a Razzie worthy performance as an underdeveloped
character with a useless upsetting past and an ear-cringing accent. He
whines and makes the most stupid mistakes a film character has ever
made in the history, provided by the horrendous Shamylan-Esq screenplay
where you can't tell if its supposed to be funny or not. "He let me
borrow the book Moby Dick, he even let me hold it.""Hold what?" "The
book...dad" Word for word. This comes off as a terrible joke some sixth
grader tries to make, and there are many nonsense lines like this
crammed into the ridiculous plot with gaping and obvious plot holes.
Why is he making a fire when he's right above a geothermic vent? Why in
the heck did the bird who just tried to eat him save his life? Why is
that oxygen mask working when its not even attached to anything? Why
did Jaden need to get higher on the volcano to send out the
transmission when he was just getting closer to the "radioactive
cloud"(dafuq)? A ton of these mistakes are so obviously scattered
throughout the terrible script. It really just makes it funny. If you
enjoy being entertained by stupid movies, I definitely recommend you
check this out because it is so bad its funny.

GRADE: D- (The only reason I'm not giving this piece of crap an F is
because it's still not as bad as Last Airbender, so you need to give
Shamylan some credit)
<|_=00=_|>
Generally, Sci-Fi is supposed to fill us with awe with its visions of
other worlds and of the future. All After Earth managed to fill me with
is an overall sense of boredom. This is a lifeless adventure story
about a gruff military father and his son bonding when they are both
stranded on an abandoned planet Earth. The father and son dynamic,
which is supposed to be the main dramatic force which drives the story,
fails because we don't believe in the relationship, and the actors have
zero chemistry. This is odd, considering said actors are the real life
father and son, Will and Jaden Smith.

After Earth is the latest movie from director M. Night Shyamalan. Not
that the studio would like you to know this. You might remember how
just a few years ago, the studios heavily hyped each release from the
director, plastering his name all over the poster and ad campaign.
However, after a series of expensive flops, Shyamalan's name is no
longer a selling point. And so, they literally have hidden his
involvement with this stillborn movie that contains some of the
shoddiest CG effects I've seen in a big budget summer movie. Just look
at the CG baboons, lions and eagles that threaten our heroes during the
course of the film. Compare it to the work done with the CG animals in
Life of Pi, and the end result is almost comical.

The plot - We learn through endless, droning exposition that humans
have been forced to flee Earth for another home planet. Considering the
recent Tom Cruise Sci-Fi film, Oblivion, opened in a similar manner, it
only made me wish I was watching that film instead. The humans have
generally been living peacefully on their new world, except for some
pesky encounters with some big, ugly aliens called Ursa who are blind,
and can detect people only by smelling their fear. They're yet another
hostile alien race who have mastered the art of the jump scare, but not
intelligent conversation, since all they can do is roar, growl, and
generally look and act like generic CG.

One of the main war heroes in the battle against the Ursa is General
Cypher Kaige (Will Smith). Cypher is a tough, battle-hardened military
man who seems to have a hard time differentiating his work life from
his home life. His son is Kitai (Jaden Smith), a young boy who
desperately wants his father's approval, and is trying for a position
in the military, but fears he will never live up to dad's lofty
expectations for him. Kitai is also haunted by the memory of seeing his
older sister, Senshi (Zoe Kravitz), being killed by an Ursa right
before his eyes. Cypher's wife suggests a father-son space voyage, so
that they can bond. This doesn't go very well, as the ship is severely
damaged in an asteroid belt, killing everyone on board except Cypher
and Kitai, and sending the ship crashing on the abandoned planet Earth.

So, now they're trapped on Earth, and must rely on each other for
survival. Cypher has broken both of his legs in the crash, so it is up
to Kitai to get them home. The journey Kitai undertakes is supposed to
make him into a man, while allowing his father to win respect for him.
This could be effective, if it weren't portrayed in such a crashingly
obvious way. Each adventure he undertakes is small in scope - He runs
away from a pack of baboons, he fights off some lions, he is briefly
poisoned by a parasitic creature...All of these encounters seem like
annoyances, rather than grand adventures. There is no sense of scope
here, no sense of awe or wonder.

But the real question here is, how could the performances by both Will
and Jaden Smith be so wooden, unemotional, and unconvincing? I'm not
exactly sure, but my best guess is that they took their character
descriptions completely to heart. In the case of Will Smith, I imagine
his character bio read something like this - "Cypher is an emotionally
distant, gruff military man who has a hard time showing emotion, or
being open with his son". And so, Will Smith interprets his character
as if he is completely devoid of any emotion whatsoever. He reads all
of his lines in a passive, monotone voice. It got to the point where I
found myself wondering if I wasn't watching the wax statue figure of
Will Smith from Madame Tussaud's museum instead.

The performance by young Jaden Smith is not much better. He often comes
across as shrill and grating, his voice pitched at this high and whiny
tone. It just made me want to peel him right off the screen and replace
him with another actor every time he opened his mouth. Who is to blame
for these awful turns by these actors who have been likable in the
past? Was the director's heart just not in this project? That sounds
reasonable. Say what you will about Shyamalan's recent body of work,
but I've often found something to admire in the look of a lot of his
films. Here, we get no interesting visuals. Even the fleeting glimpses
we get of humanity's new planet home are disappointing, and look like
they were shot on a studio soundstage.

After Earth is the kind of movie experience you want to forget as soon
as possible. In a year that has already brought us Sci-Fi films like
Oblivion and the flawed-but-enjoyable Star Trek Into Darkness, this
movie feels all the more insignificant and lame.
<|_=00=_|>
It is not as if I immediately hate on M Night Shyamalan. The Sixth
Sense was a masterpiece and Unbreakable was great. Of the movies that
get a lot of hate The Village was the least bad, not great but pretty
decent(while Shyamalan didn't direct but produced and wrote Devil, that
also applies here). Signs was pretty good until it went off the boil in
the second half, which really brought things down to a significant
degree. The others were as bad as I'd heard. Lady in the Water was
well-made generally and I liked Bryce Dallas Howard in it as well as
the score but the rest was a muddled mess. The Happening and The Last
Airbender suffered mainly from having such potential but falling hard
big time, Happening did have some unintentional comic value(mainly
because Mark Walhberg's acting was so laughably bad) and Airbender had
great visuals and score.

After Earth didn't have as much potential as those two but didn't have
any of the things that raised the other two up a slight notch. That of
which in my mind makes After Earth worse. It is not the worst film I've
seen or one of the worst and but it is the worst film that I've seen so
far this year. I wouldn't say that James Newton Howard's score is bad
actually here. It does have some beautiful sounds, it's just sparingly
used and while well-composed and fitting it is also one of those scores
that I came out of the cinema not remembering most of. The visuals
didn't do anything for me either, the sets were surprisingly drab and
unimaginative and the special effects were very repetitively used. The
photography and editing had moments where they were decent but others
where they were amateurish, too many times steering towards the latter,
the jump cut shots were just annoying and took away from any shocks,
tension or suspense. With Sixth Sense and Unbreakable, up until after
The Village Shyamalan showed potential but after that point saw him
getting lazy. And that was the case with After Earth, I saw little if
any heart or character in the directing.

Same with the story and scripting too. The dialogue was so
awkward-sounding and clich√©d, often I found myself not being able to
take what I was hearing seriously. Instead of making me get engrossed
in the characters, their situation and feelings, I found that the
dialogue and delivery was just distracting. Shyamalan showed with Sixth
Sense, Unbreakable and the first half of Signs that he did have
potential to tell a good story. Since though, his storytelling has
consisted of some good ideas that are executed badly, all too clear
here. The already admittedly by-the-numbers story here was incredibly
plodding and confused, very little made sense and there was nothing
gripping. I found it very difficult to get emotionally invested in the
characters either or the father-son relationship(a bad thing
considering that this is the driving force really of the film). The
acting was very poor, even from pretty and quite talented Sophie
Okonedo, who was under-utilised. Will Smith is a likable actor and guy,
but has never been this one-note or disengaged before, maybe his
character was meant to be like that but it didn't mean that Smith had
to take it to extremes.

Jaden Smith, Will Smith's own son, was even worse, and along with the
story his performance was probably the worst thing about the film. He
had nowhere near enough experience for this type of film and probably
in general(though he was not too bad in The Karate Kid), and clearly
looked uncomfortable. Along with a very uncharismatic presence and
painful dialogue delivery his performance was stilted and (in the
voice) very shrill, it is one of the worst child performances on film
I've seen personally- that's saying a fair bit too- and I sensed no
chemistry at all between him and his dad which for obvious reasons is
quite ironic. All in all, a really terrible film and the only film of
Shyamalan's that, apart from perhaps the nicely composed if spare and
at the end of the day forgettable score, was close to having no
redeeming values. 

Critics have increasingly gotten an undeservedly bad rap, true there
have been a fair number of times where I have disagreed with them but
After Earth is one of those times where they got it exactly right. And
before anybody who likes it flames me, I did watch After Earth with an
open mind and no prejudices, though admittedly with knowledge of its
reputation. If you liked it, good for you, I and a lot of other people
didn't and for perfectly valid reasons and should be allowed to think
what we want. If you can't see that, that's your problem, not ours, and
this is in general on IMDb. Sorry for the irrelevant rant there but I
have seen a lot of critic-bashing going on lately and lots of
accusations like "being pretentious", "pretending to like it", "having
the inability to make up our own mind" and "not having a sense of
humour" and I'm getting sick and tired of it. And please stop using the
racism argument, it is very shallow and it is not fair for people who
did genuinely see it, rated it fairly as we thought and for whom racism
and bigotry is a pet peeve of theirs.

1/10 Bethany Cox
