
This film is simply exceptional in every way. The edge it has is
delivering the best, grittiest action the genre has ever scene and
characters that are as complex as the are fun. Why do I say that?
Well...

What I love about the character is that Steve Rogers has
"I'm-a-man-out- of-time issues" but he's comfortable with the chaos
that it brings. In acclimating himself to this century he is at his
best. Yes, most people would be overwhelmed but because of who he is
and where he's from, he's able to cope and adapt. The serum that gives
him his physical edge also gives him a mental boost. It's his emotions
that are raw and unaided. Time has passed since Avengers so we don't
get to see his day to day amazement and adjustment. I'm glad they
skipped that stuff. What we do see is the man who once represented
America and has become alien to America and it's slanted values. The
passage of time. Add those struggles to a full blown conspiracy film
and what results might just be the best film released all year long.

Steve Rogers is basically a John Wayne American. The world shifts to
him and it's his job to tell everybody "Here's they way things should
be done." We saw that in Avengers and even the first film after he
gathered his Howling Commandos. Now, the powers that be are a lot more
flexible in terms of loyalties and how they're going to get certain
jobs done. How he handles this century's gray morality is at the heart
of the film.

Like most men from the 1940's, Steve keeps things to himself and keeps
his emotions bottled up. (EX: the first film when he mentions his
mother dying of TB and he was even embarrassed when Peggy found him
mourning alone for Bucky) So, bringing The Black Widow in to this film
gives him someone who is going to draw out his story, because he's
never going to offer it up of his own accord. Natasha learns from him.
Fury learns from him. Sam Wilson learns from him. Yet, they all give
him something in return. Every character used is utilized perfectly and
smartly. Falcon for example, is not in awe of the legend of Captain
America. This is exactly what Steve wants in a friend and in a fellow
soldier, to not have to be Captain America. Everyone fits perfectly in
to the plot and allows access to different beats, tones and emotional
depth. Yes, conspiracy thrillers need depth and this one has it.

Captain America is probably the only superhero left in this world of
the reboot who is singularly heroic. He doesn't have this dark
existential quandary like other reinventions. Plugging that resolute
goodness into a morally complex story means he doesn't question what he
believes, but he questions whether anybody else does anymore. He
doesn't question his foundation but he questions where he has ended up
and what his role must now be. The conspiracy element and structure of
this story helps in that Captain America is not up on a pedestal being
self righteous, he's in a corner and that makes you want to root for
the guy. He believes in what he's doing and the viewer is along for a
great ride sharing that belief.

Marvel movies usually establish character early. This one starts out
fast but it's got a lot of character in it. The first act packs a punch
but does it laying the groundwork for a remarkable third act. They take
time showing the issues and you immediately empathize with Steve.
Giving us good character depth means the action delivers more punch.
And the action here is beyond great. This movie absolutely punches you
in the face in the best way possible. The action has advanced a lot
from the first film. How he now operates in the world and kicks butt is
all very impressive.

So, this is probably Marvel's grittiest movie and it's also their best
sequel to date. There's a dash of humor but there's mostly a wonderful
thriller, conspiracy and adventure that delivers a great great film.
<|_=00=_|>
With Rogers, Fury, and Romanoff previously established, directors Joe
and Anthony Russo do a magnificent job at expanding these characters 
along with some secondary characters we've seen before  providing more
depth to understanding their actions and how they will affect future
stories. Sam Jackson has a stronger presence this time around,
validating Nick Fury as a main staple in the MCU among the big boys.
Captain America is stronger, faster, and a more refined soldier,
equipped with better fighting skills and understanding of current
technology. Evans plays the earnestness of Captain America's black and
white morality with convincing finesse in an age of grey that he has
yet to find a comfortable middle. And Johansson progresses the allure
of the cunning and multifaceted Black Widow, while bringing a splendid
and lively balance to Rogers' straight and narrow.

Amidst such a tight and clever script, The Winter Soldier introduces a
band of new characters, all of whom play a significant role, creating a
more layered and conceivably real MCU. Frank Grillo brings the swolling
mass of muscle known as S.H.I.E.L.D. Agent Brock Rumlow to life. Emily
VanCamp surprises with her portrayal of Agent 13, whom I wish had more
screen time with Cap than just two quick scenes. Robert Redford plays
Alexander Pierce, a superior ranking Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D., friend to
Nick Fury, and representative of the World Security Council. Pierce is
a wonderful look into the higher ranks at S.H.I.E.L.D., contributing
new insights as to how the organization is run outside of Fury, Agent
Coulson, and Agent Maria Hill. Anthony Mackie is Sam Wilson aka The
Falcon, an ex-military special-ops paratrooper and a welcomed addition
recruited by Rogers to help fight the good fight. Mackie fits
comfortably among the cast of veteran actors and should play nicely
with the other Avengers.

Enhanced for combat and strength, The Winter Soldier's presence is
terrifying when it comes to any action scene. Sebastian Stan does an
amazing job holding his own against his targets and those who get in
his way of his missions. My only gripe is that it is not explained how
he obtains the immense power and skills he beholds. The connection
between Rogers and The Winter Soldier is dealt with true care and
excels the story of Captain America from the first film brilliantly.
(Be sure to stay after the credits for a nice button leading into
Captain America 3.) 

The Winter Soldier is not just a fantastic sequel to Captain America:
The First Avenger and The Avengers, it should also be recognized as one
of the best sequels ever made. In fact, writers Christopher Markus and
Stephen McFeely, the duo behind Thor: The Dark World, the Narnia
Trilogy, and The First Avenger, have done such a great job shaping
Captain America's story that this movie could almost stand on its own.
There are many exciting twists and turns in this well-constructed,
political action-thriller, but nothing comes as more of a shock than
how important the story is at defining the direction of the MCU. What
takes place in The Winter Soldier, along with an awesome mid-credits
sequence tie-in, will inherently influence Avengers: Age of Ultron as
well as Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.  which should make the TV series a lot
more interesting and reward fans who have stuck by its side.

Tonally, The Winter Soldier is the darkest story we've come to
encounter, raising many deep-seated questions about government and
soldiers of war while also taking Rogers on an emotional journey. It
also has the best action choreography among all of the MCU movies thus
far. Whedon's NYC battle in The Avengers is beautifully shot and
written, but cannot compare to the hard-hitting set pieces found in The
Winter Soldier, each building up to the bigger whole. The Russo
brothers come from a background of directing television comedies such
as Arrested Development and Community, and it's extraordinary how well
they handle a big budget action blockbuster from cinematography to
pacing. They do infuse their own style of comedy with fun references
and a cameo other than Stan Lee, functioning properly within the
confines of the tone and story. Henry Jackman (Captain Phillips;
Wreck-It Ralph; X-Men: First Class) also composes an adrenaline pumping
score that sets the right mood every time.

The biggest fault found in The Winter Soldier is that it does not
address the whereabouts of other heroes or where we are in terms of the
time line of the other movies. Why can't Captain America call on Tony
Stark to help him out or even Hawkeye who is a member of S.H.I.E.L.D.
himself. This is a recurring problem we have seen throughout Phase 2 of
the MCU in Iron Man 3 and Thor: The Dark World. Marvel Studios needs to
acknowledge this hiccup if they want us to continue to believe all of
these characters live in the same universe together. You cannot exclude
these characters once you have opened Pandora's Box.

Marvel Studios has hit this one out of the ball park with yet another
gripping adaptation for fans to enjoy for years to come. By and large,
Captain America: The Winter Soldier succeeds on all fronts. It is the
perfect set up for future films and at the same time it increases the
value of its predecessors. There is little to argue against its merits
and should be regarded as one of the greatest superhero movies of all
time.
<|_=00=_|>
Went into the movie not expecting much as I felt that the first Captain
America was one of the weaker movies in Phase one of the Avengers.
However, this movie was one of the best of the Marvel Cinematic
Universe.

First off, the action and fight scenes in the movie are just awesome
and there is plenty of action to keep you entertained throughout the
entire movie. There is also enough humour to balance all this. The
characters all had their own amazing moments and the acting is decent
as well. You get to see more of Nick Fury, and he was awesome in this.
Black Widow is used much more in this movie and as well as being
badass, she brings out more of the Captain's story. Sam Wilson (the
Falcon) is great and is involved in some great action scenes. The
villains in this movie were awesome as well.

Quite enjoyed the story as well. There were a few twists; some
unexpected, some expected. And the reveal of the unexpected twists in
the final third were epic. The story is not just about Captain America
and the Winter Soldier, there are darker forces at play and causes the
Captain to ask dangerous questions.

This movie is very entertaining, the story is decent, the ending is
awesome and satisfying and I would recommend watching this. Makes for a
decent political thriller as well. This will easily be one of my
favourite movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Now "The winter soldier" is everything a Captain America movie should
be. While it maintains some of the humour that now has become the
trademark of Marvel films, TWS is way more serious than all of them
combined. And this is truly where the film feels so brave and yes
different than any other superhero flicks that we have seen. 

Which brings me to the most important point, the plot. While of course
it is not going to be the most original or complicated film of the
century, there is the basic screen writing elements that so much lack
from modern day blockbusters. You have the (likable) characters and a
mystery they need to solve along with a racing clock. It reminded me
the 70's political paranoia thrillers (3 days of the Condor - another
Redford link, The parallax view, Z) and it is a welcome tone that makes
the WS to differentiate itself from the rest. There are strong scenes
regarding political fear, control, and information manipulation but it
never feels bloated or overbearing. the purpose is to entertain even if
it manages to squeeze through a bit of political views with Rogers
replacing the viewer's voice on screen. At one point there is a talk
about who is who which results in every man for himself mayhem in one
of the most interesting sequences that you may see this year. We do not
get this stuff these days!

Besides the charged plot, the introduction of new characters and the
mega mayhem in the streets of Washingthon DC, the Russos have found
time (and they should bloody do since TWS is 2 and a half hours long!)
to inject some sentiments in the proceedings - a visit to Peggy, a
confrontation with Fury regarding SHIELDs actions, Bucky's memory
recall, Natasha's kissing talk. They could have easily skip these
"crap" but instead the extra running time feels adjusted and coherent
with a bit of more characterization which results to bring us closer to
the on screen counterparts. 

However, the action is what took me by surprise. The bar has been set
higher now. It is truly unbelievable to think that these two directors
(of the "Community" fame) came with such inventive ways of using Cap's
shield. Finally, the shield gets to be seen in all of its glory. In
addition, all the fist fights (and they are many) are excellent
examples and putting the glasses to the school of frantic edit (which I
truly despise) with varied and rapid choreography. A terrific elevator
fight sequence probably stands out as truly memorable whereas the
encounters with the Winter Soldier never feel repetitive. The Russo
brothers keep changing the game from stealth and cloak missions, to car
chases, to gun fires, to dog fights, to fist fights. There is something
for everyone here and it is arguably among the finest I have seen.
Impressive considering their credits. Real stunt work (backflips,
wrestle moves, somersaults, etc), real fights and it is a pleasing
sight to go away from superhero duels of the Avengers, Thor and Iron
man. These characters rely on instincts and bullets. No more and no
less and most of them do have some brutal moments for a PG-13 film (and
blood too).

The actors are absolutely brilliant in their roles. While Evans came
out as a bit arrogant in the "Avengers" and the least interesting
character, here he truly shines. First time ever, I actually bought
what he was bringing on the table. This is a soldier who believed in
protecting the people and their freedom. Here though, in the modern era
of espionage with multiple intrigues and political events, he finds
himself unable to identify which side he is on and for what. At one
point he even considers himself Fury's caretaker of terrorist
"problems". The other side of the coin is Samuel Jackson's Nick Fury
and Robert Redford's Alexander Pierce. It is nice to see Jackson
expanding his role from 1 minute cameo in "Iron Man" to a fully
supporting actor here. But the real standout is Robert Redford. Kevin
Feige (the producer) probably knows how to do casting because so far
there has not been a single acting mistake. Bringing
heavy-acting-weight Redford to a superhero film is actually a bold move
and while most movies do not focus on the talented cast, here the Russo
brothers give Redford plenty of close ups and necessary gravitational
dialogue that kept surprised me for a "summer" and "mindless"
blockbuster. Antony Mackie plays Falcon believably enough and it is
very good to see a great supporting turn instead of being the comedic
sidekick. The winter soldier now himself is as you would have expected?
probably the best villain outside Loki(!) in the marvel films. A truly
unstoppable and cool killing machine that shows no remorse or regret
considering his complete disregard (and destructive) actions throughout
the film. Shaw manages to bring a bit of menace to a generally light
hearted series of fantasy films as he has to act more with his eyes
rather than sharing any scenes of actual dialogue. 

Is it perfect? Of course not but it does not feel that it is drugging
forever or raising any boring flags. There is plenty of plot,
intelligence and sweet characters moments to keep anyone satisfying.
This is blockbuster at its finest, a superhero film with heart,
immersive action and subtle touches of humour. Totally recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Captain America: The Winter Soldier is the third film in Phase 2 of the
Marvel Cinematic Universe (after last year's Iron Man 3 and Thor: The
Dark World). Compared with the mighty giant green monster, the hammer
wielding Norse thunder god or the 'genius, philanthropist, billionaire,
playboy' armor man, the Captain was never quite as appealing as the
rest of the 'Unusuals'. Steve Rogers is portrayed as an old-fashioned,
straightforward, honest, courageous, sincere, patriotic superhero. This
makes him a less-interesting, boring character. Moreover, as Tony Stark
said it, "Everything special about you came out of a bottle!"

Most film-goers would know that Marvel films are famous for its bright,
fun and not-so-serious approach to its storytelling, together with some
catchy, witty dialogues. This film is a game changer in the Marvel
Cinematic Universe. This time around, Marvel decided to take a
different approach on things: To make a Captain America sequel with a
more serious, darker plot development and more face-to-face close-range
hand combat fights. What should have been a typical superhero film, now
becomes a conspiracy-espionage thriller.

Two years after the events that happened in New York city, the Captain
still struggles with adjusting himself to the modern world, with no
apparent social life or girl friend, which is why Natasha/Black Widow
tries to introduce or recommend him some cute girls in S.H.I.E.L.D. for
him to date with. He is shocked when he learns that the very
governmental organisation he is working for is not what it seems to be,
as the Cap said in the trailer, "This isn't freedom. This is fear".
Soon, he finds himself entangled in a conspiracy that puts millions of
innocent lives at risk.

The film comes with excellent, fast-paced action choreography. Although
the cinematography is a bit dodgy due to the shaky-cam techniques used
for depicting the chaotic moments, the fight scenes between the Winter
Soldier and the Captain is fantastic and serves as one of the film's
highlights. The audience finally gets to see how the Captain's shield
is utilised effectively in both offensive and defensive combat
situations. It also good to see again how Natasha kicks ass in the
film.

All actors delivered a pretty decent performance in the film. Once
again, Chris Evans and Scarlett Johannson both proved that they fit
their roles well, adding more depth to the characters they portray in
the film. Sam Wilson/Falcon is a welcome addition to the Marvel
franchise and hopefully he will appear again in the Avengers sequel.
Unfortunately, despite the film's title, the winter soldier is not a
complex villain and doesn't appear much in the film. It's such a shame
to just show him as a formidable physical fighter who's capable of
challenging the Captain.

The film is well-scripted, filled with suspense while highlighting some
important socio-political issues such as government surveillance and
control in its storytelling. Although the twists in the film is
predictable and fairly easy to guess, the sequel is a marked
improvement compared to its predecessor, Captain America: The First
Avenger. The story unfolds gradually and comes with huge, surprising
developments by the end of the film. Marvel Cinematic Universe is not
going to be the same again. What's going to happen next? How the story
is going to progress in Avengers: Age of Ultron, after what had
happened in this film? Interesting.

Rating: 8.5/10

http://yjcool.blogspot.com/2014/03/movie-review-captain-america-
winter.html

Be warned. This is not the typical fun, 'not-so-serious', entertaining
Marvel film that you used to watch in the past. You might like it or
find it a bore. In order to recognize some of the characters in the
film, you need to remember some of Marvel's Phase One films. Most
importantly, you need to watch Captain America: The First Avenger
before watching this to understand the plot.

Note: Guess you don't need me to remind you to stay for the mid-credit
and post-credit scenes. It foreshadows what's going to happen next by
introducing a lesser-known supervillain and two new characters,
'Miracles' (another name for 'mutants' because of screen rights issues)
which going to be in the Avengers sequel, Age of Ultron. It further
confirms that one of weapons depicted in The Avengers is indeed one of
the six infinity stones.
<|_=00=_|>
Marvel showed pretty clearly in Iron Man 3 that they are not afraid to
take risk, bend comic stories and venture into unknown territories. I
was pleasantly surprised by Captain America : The Winter Soldier
because Marvel is able to do surprise audience like never before. This
movie has mostly everything a fan could ask for. A political drama,
conspiracy theories, Chris Evans portrayal of a "out of his time"
superhero who is trying to blend in with the world and thinks that
"Internet is helpful", typical Marvel's laugh out loud moments and
above all some mesmerizing action sequences. Threat in this movie is
not as big as the one in Thor :The Dark World since only our tiny
planet is at stake rather than entire 9 realms with imaginative
difficult to pronounce names, but thanks to some very smart blend of
direction, acting and close to perfect background scores, threat seems
to be much bigger and more importantly, real this time. You actually
care for the fate of entire planet and characters. You do come face to
face with the full potential of SHIELD and its structure, its influence
on world politics and when the actual villain is revealed, you just
cannot hide your excitement. SHIELD acts as a central character in the
movie and shows itself to be far bigger and complex than what we
suspected after watching all the Marvel offerings. There is Nick Fury
as usual hiding secrets, keeping secrets and digging secrets but
watching him vulnerable in this movie is much better than watching him
acting all almighty in Avengers. Chris Evans shine in this role and I
can imagine he won't be at the bottom of favorite Avengers list after
this movie. His portrayal of Captain America is near perfect. Scarlett
Johansson is a surprise package in the film portraying Black Widow
character. She gets ample screen time presence this time, even in
scenes where she is not kicking someone. It is actually the first time
we learn something about Black Widow, duplicity in her character just
adds tension to the already built suspense in the movie. Sebastian Stan
is good in his portrayal of winter soldier. He is a perfect nemesis to
Captain America in the movie. I bet you haven't seen such creative
combat scenes between these two ever before. Action here is not as loud
as Thor movies, it is more real, every bullet which find its target
hurts, every punch delivered matters, it is so enjoyable to watch just
because it is so real. I wish I could write about some more characters
but that will be giving away some key points. Please be assured there
are some great character comebacks, some you expected, some you didn't.
I was a little let down by the climax of the film by its simplicity
after the real motive of the real villain is revealed, but of course
you have to remember its a Marvel film, there doesn't exist any
situation alien/political/social which can't be solved by few
explosions and kicks. Overall it's a highly entertaining film from
Marvel, I will put it behind only Avengers and first Iron Man, this
movie deserves your weekend. And of course it goes without saying,
don't dare to leave your seats until last credits have rolled out, you
have probably all heard the rumors about Joss Whedon directing the end
credit scene. Yes it is awesome and offers an insight into the next
Avengers movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Another hit from marvel!!! can they do anything wrong.

With the success of the recent marvel films, this one again is sure to
do well at the box office. whats more pleasantly surprising is that
this film is probably the best they've made so far, even rivalling the
avengers. I'm sure that with these positive reviews this movie will
make upwards of 600 million, beating Thor: the dark world, but i doubt
that it will beat iron man 3. however with the success of this movie, i
feel that many more people with be eagerly waiting for the third
instalment so watch out Batman V superman!! 

The acting as expected from Scarlett Johansson, Chris Evans and Samuel
L. Jackson was excellent. Robert Redford was impeccable in his role and
he was worth the effort that Marvel put in to get him on board. The
rest of the cast all play their roles extremely well and Marvel have
done the right thing by bringing the Falcon in the movie, which was
played well by Anthony Mackie.

The movie is a great political thriller and i must admit, even without
the bonus of superheroes, the script/story is a great movie. The
superheroes is what we pay and want to see but the amazing flow of the
movie itself should leave many satisfied. The superheroes and villains
were all great and i hope we continue seeing the Falcon in the future
along with Black Widow. This movie is the most closely linked with The
Avengers and also Avengers Age of Ultron, from the rest of the phase 2
films. This is a great movie and one that i highly recommend watching.

BTW stay for the end credits for an extra bonus!
<|_=00=_|>
I applaud the Russo brothers and the writers Christopher Markus and
Stephen McFeely on a job well done in this action thriller The action
is riveting as are the quite scenes between the characters. There are
Good humorous punches in this script also. The returning cast are great
and expanding their roles from other movies, I am trying to be vague
here as not to ruin the movie. Also there are some great additions to
the cast as well. Anthony Mackie does a soaring job as the Falcon (pun
intended), he has a very comfortable fit to the cast and no way feel
forces in. Robert Redford is a very compelling character and presence
on screen. The action scenes were fantastic when I saw the resume of
the Russos's movies I was a little worried, now I think they might have
to worry about being type cast as action movie directors. There are a
few changes from the comic book story line but they are not
distracting. The Winter Solider is a movie that greatly expands and
shakes the foundation of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Stay for the
two end credit sequences. I really enjoyed this movie and recommend it.
If it's action you want. Go see the Captain.
<|_=00=_|>
When Fury(L. Jackson, tough as usual, for him and these) is attacked by
an unknown enemy, the Captain(Evans, will of steel, heart of gold) and
Black Widow(Johansson, sultry and devious  this uses her right,
finally) find themselves(they have a great chemistry, with a charming
running gag of her wanting to pair him up with a girl, going through a
list of ones they both know; and with his straightforward nature, and
her relative lack of integrity, they both affect the other towards
them, benefiting both) with no one else to trust, except perhaps the
veteran Falcon(Mackie, amiable), as they uncover a genuinely
devastating truth, while on the run from a considerable force 
including the elusive assassin, The Winter Soldier(Stan, terrifying,
pure awesome pretty much every second he's on screen).

This is just short of the level of The Avengers. It uses the strong
continuity of the cinematic Marvel(as in, their own studio) universe
better than any of the others, and does justice to many different
elements, most of them set up prior to this. Events occur in this that
will have serious consequences for future entries. The plot-driven
nature and approach of a 70's political thriller(where some characters,
all credible and with something to do, happen to wear a flag or the
like) in a contemporary setting and with biting satire(on foreign
policy, something not entirely new to these, but never before this
sharp commenting on mass surveillance and executions taking place
before any trial against the (supposed) perpetrator) is spot-on. From a
40's war flick, with heroism and defined lines between good and evil,
to the modern method of taking on the opposition  with spying, and
questionable tactics(compared to one army versus another).

The action all comes about naturally, it's personal, hard-hitting and,
on account of next to no CGI, it's "real". Each intense set-piece is
varied(fighting, shooting, chasing both on foot and vehicular), you
will remember them, and except for one bit, they feel fresh and
original. Among the very few weaknesses are that Sharon(VanCamp,
another compelling and strong woman) has nothing to do in this,
appearing as if her important scenes were cut, and/or that she was
setup for the next one. She is the only one that that goes for, a
pleasant surprise considering the seemingly bloated cast of characters.
This explores S.H.I.E.L.D., and how the iconic super soldier fits into
it or, whether or not he does, at all. The 3D is unobtrusive, adding
depth and atmosphere, similar to Avatar.

There is violence and disturbing content in this. I recommend this to
any fan of, well, blockbusters. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie Rocks!!!!!! At first, I wasn't very confident about watching
a captain America movie because he looked kind of old-school. But when
I watched this movie - BOOM !!!!!!! This movie blew my mind.... It is
really AWESOME!!! There are many sequences that will make you jump up
in your seats. And though I have not included any spoilers, I would
like to recommend you to stay after the credits for two amazing scenes,
now this is hardly a spoiler as everyone knows marvel always treats the
audience with surprising after credits scenes. I shall say no more
here. Marvel has done an excellent job on this movie.

Chris Evans has done some excellent work as Captain America. But
Scarlett Johansson as Black widow steals the movie. Her character is
evergreen as usual.Others to look forward to are Sebastian Stan as the
winter soldier and Anthony Mackie as The Falcon.

I highly recommend this movie. Guys, this movie is really worth your
bucks. Moreover, the movie runs for over 136 mins, but never at a
single moment during the movie you feel bored. And the ending of the
movie leaves you craving for more and more.

The climax is terrific. I haven't seen such an awesome climax of a
movie since the Avengers. So guys, go for this movie.... take your kids
with you. They'll love it. It is a perfect start of summer blockbuster
and one of the best movies of the year without doubt..
