
The trailer to this film is rather misleading. It's the equivalent of
advertising the whole of Disneyland with just clips of Space Mountain
again and again. There's a lot more going on here than Ryan Gosling
robbing banks and being a general badass in The Place Beyond The Pines.
There are in fact at least three main characters all with their own
story. And while the Ryan Gosling section is, a bit like Space Mountain
at Disney, the best bit of the package he is only one part of a much
bigger picture. 

A motor bike stunt rider finds out he has a son so packs in his day job
and takes the logical step of robbing banks to provide for him. The
story deals with the family life of the man as well as a rookie cop who
exposes his police department to be corrupt. 

I found the film very absorbing from the start with Ryan Gosling's
character development on fast forward so at least 3 massive life events
all happen in the first 20 minutes of the film. There's not a lot of
action scenes but when there are they're very tense and exciting. 

The family life aspect is quite heartwarming and you do believe that
his character does love his son and wants to provide for him. There are
fantastic believable acting performances all round here with Ryan
Gosling and later on Bradley Cooper really showcasing their acting
talents. It's engaging and I really cared what happened to both of
their characters. 

The main problem with the film is it's length and not knowing when to
stop. The first part of the film is constantly engaging and would be a
nine out of ten if the film stayed like that the whole way through.
When the focus shifts from characters however it really doesn't feel as
exciting and almost feels like the start of totally different movie. A
movie that isn't bad but is nowhere near as good as the one you've just
seen.

Every story told is linked obviously but sometimes it feels a tad
loose. There is a dramatic time shift when the film reaches the 100
minute mark and what follows really seems to drag. It never really felt
like it was going anywhere. It was by no means boring however, it just
lost a bit of steam towards the end. The Place Beyond The Pines is
worth a watch but just be prepared to have you're socks blown off and
then have them planted firmly back on your feet as the film continues.
<|_=00=_|>
You might call Derek Cianfrance's tremendous new movie "A Place Beyond
the Pines" a blue-collar epic or a tragedy in three acts; it's
certainly a drama in three acts. It runs for two hours and twenty
minutes and it covers a period of about 17 years and there are really
only about four major characters. To talk at all about the films
storyline would be to spoil what is really an extraordinary narrative
where even the coincidences of the third act seem to me to have
resonance of great drama and it is magnificently played by its four
principal actors.

Ryan Gosling, continuing to cement his reputation as the finest young
actor of his generation, is Luke, an outlaw anti-hero worthy to stand
beside any played by Dean or Newman. Bradley Cooper, so much more now
that the light comedian of The Hangover movies, is Avery, the
idealistic young rookie cop who finds the consequences of a single act
of violence leads him down paths he previously may only have dreamed of
and relative newcomers Dane DeHaan and Emory Cohen are sons in
desperate need of a father's love and guidance.

This is bold and innovative film-making from Cianfrance with a strong
emphasis on plot development. It plays out like a great page-turner of
a novel but is in fact an original screenplay. After "Blue Valentine"
this marks Cianfrance out as a major big league player.
<|_=00=_|>
What he have here is a story about fathers and their sons. In fact,
three separate stories - each one leads into the next. A lesser movie
would have just told one story, but "The Place Beyond the Pines" is
larger in scope and needs all three parts to tell the complete story. A
life is not just about your life but those you affect and those you
leave behind for years to come.

The first father is Luke (Ryan Gosling) who didn't know he had a son
until a girl whose name he happens to remember shows up with a one
year- old son. Prior to that moment he was a daredevil with no
ambitions, no money, and no care for his life. Now he's a father. A
father with no money nor job. Wearing a dirty, inside-out, torn t-shirt
and tattoos covering his arms, neck and face, he is the epitome of
trash. But you know, the quiet, reserved, soulful, good-looking trash.
And now that he's a father, he's going to care for his son however he
can. He hooks up with his partner in crime, literally - Robin (Ben
Mendelsohn). Together they are like a Hall & Oates version of Bonnie
and Clyde.

In Schenectady, New York - the place beyond the pines - the only thing
dirtier than the trashy criminals are the cops themselves. And then the
second father is introduced. The character of Avery (Bradley Cooper) is
carefully crafted into what should be the greatest human being on
planet Earth. And he's a cop. And he's a father. And he's a son to a
father who might have been but probably wasn't the greatest human being
on planet Earth.

The film went for editing and filming styles to echo the characters'
situations and actions. You can guess what that would look like when
Gosling is racing through the forest on his motorcycle. But as we
approach the more expansive ending, there are some beautiful shots of
the trees lining Schenectady's countryside roads. That works
particularly well with Cooper giving a remarkable performance of Avery
constantly coming to grips with his life.

The final act tells a story very different from, but completely
connected to, the two that came before it. It could have been tightened
up a bit, but "The Place Beyond the Pines" isn't telling a quick story.
It's telling the story of multiple lives, of death, family, love,
honour and obedience. Employing overall themes of revenge, ambition,
and what it means to be a father, and a son. I say it succeeds in its
larger scope, even if it doesn't just tell a story the way one would
want it to.
<|_=00=_|>
The Place Beyond The Pines was a magnificent third feature from
director Derek Cianfrance. The performances were outstanding and it was
a great story. The three act structure was executed brilliantly and
were all tied together in a very satisfying way.

The opening tracking shot was absolutely brilliant and did a great job
establishing Ryan Gosling's character without any dialogue. The
soundtrack, by Mike Patton, was impeccable and did a great job
capturing the tone of the film.

The story of the film is really well told and does a great job dealing
with multiple genres. This film will appeal to anyone who wants to
watch captivating performances, intense drama, and a great story! I
highly recommend it!
<|_=00=_|>
In an attempt to give away as little as possible about this film,
obviously so that you can enjoy all of the phases as I was able to do,
I would like to simply highlight my opinion about this movie. It was a
great film and was very entertaining. I'd recommend you take a chance
and go see this film. Expect some theatrical diversity and in the end
it all comes back full circle.

I have nothing negative to say. The acting was mature and accurate.
Each character was playing a role that suited their own set of talents
superbly.

Try not to read too many reviews and just go and see this movie. You
will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
This review contains some plot details.

The Place Beyond The Pines deserves praise for its ambition to weave
together three stories linked to the same event in an art house style,
however the only people who will walk away from this thinking it's
anything more than a nice looking clich√© are those who must have seen
very few films.

Director Derek Cianfrance's film suffocates under the weight of its own
attempts to be an epic drama, spanning 15 years and three chapters in
the lives of all involved. This is a perfect example of a film forcing
itself to be something it's not; there is never enough character arc or
substantial depth of character development to warrant the overbearing
150 minute running time.

As mentioned, the film is complied of three stories, the first of which
is easily the most accomplished section of the film, albeit far from
original. We follow Luke (Ryan Gosling), a man with a violent history
who now wants to care for Romina (Eva Mendes) and their baby boy whom
she has kept a secret from him and now lives with another man. He turns
to robbing banks in the small town of Schenectady, New York, and gives
her some of the cash he steals. So, a man with the love of a woman in
his heart jumps on to the desk at a bank and points a gun... Heat,
Public Enemies, The Town, Point Blank have all told a similar story
over two hours allowing the audience to invest in the characters, not
cramming it into 30-odd minutes.

The success of this section of the film comes not from the dialogue or
set-up, but from the great performance by Ryan Gosling, channelling
some of the brooding madman vibe we saw in Drive. Gosling is a very
effective actor with this smaller, character-driven material and the
difference between him here and in Gangster Squad couldn't be greater.
Cianfrance also demonstrates both excellent and awful directorial
decisions in this act; the opening tracking shot is tremendous as is a
car/bike chase which shows a fantastic new way of capturing the action
from inside the police car in a single take, but then Cianfrance ruins
it all when the action goes hand-held and the shakycam comes out like
Paul Greengrass with caffeine jitters.

The transition from story one into story two introduces Bradley Cooper
as cop Avery Cross in a delightfully matter-of-fact manner, not the way
you'd usually expect to see a movie star introduced; he simply appears
as a cop giving chase when Luke is attempting to get away from his
latest bank robbery. This was a very nice touch.

The second story, however, soon has little to do with the opening
story. After events which won't get detailed here, the story goes into
a police corruption scandal which is familiar to anyone who has seen a
Sidney Lumet picture, Copland or even recent trash such as Pride and
Glory. The film is now rapidly running out of steam as everything
unfolding is a clich√© of much better films (again, see Lumet's work)
and the crime thriller aspect which was set-up in the opening third is
now over and, essentially, a new film has begun, and we have to focus
now on caring about Avery Cross. However, the corruption case is neatly
resolved with no impact whatsoever on the characters or audience and
then the dreaded '15 years later' title card appears.

Fifteen years on and the third story begins, and the clich√© machine
goes into overdrive and The Place Beyond The Pines loses any interest
it may have had left. Luke's son and Avery's son become friends! They
both like drugs! They have both missed father figures in their journey
to adulthood! But, remember everyone, AVERY KILLED Luke, so this new
friendship surely won't fall apart within 30 minutes and one of the
boys won't do a Google search on their father and throw away 17 years
of good upbringing bar the occasional recreational drug indulgence to
take revenge on the cop who is now running for District Attorney! Oh...
yes it does and yes they do. It's just screen writing by connecting the
dots and is wholly disengaging and uninteresting.

This final story ultimately sums up The Place Beyond The Pines; trying
making something out of nothing for there is really nothing under the
surface. Crime thriller, corruption story, father and son Greek
tragedy, revenge story, family drama; this film wants to be it all but
ends up like a film adaptation of a 600 page novel which was never
written. Shame, because it would probably make for a great novel as
well.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a fan of "The Gos"(Ryan Gosling). I admit I even tried to emulate
him in "Drive" and "Crazy, Stupid, Love". He is a great actor and he
always seems to make great movies whether they are mainstream or
independent. He has already received recognition with an Oscar
nomination for "Half Nelson". I was excited to see what character he
would bring to life next when I heard about this movie. I saw the
running time of 140 minutes and saw the trailer. I wondered how they
were gonna make a movie of Gosling and Cooper last that long without
dragging. Then I found out that Gosling is only in the first third of
the movie despite him being the face of the movie. At first I felt
disappointed, but I got over it because I know that isn't a way to
judge a movie. So I went in after hearing mostly praise for this gem of
a film.

If most of you haven't already figured out, the movie is divided into 3
acts. The first follows Luke(Gosling) a motorcyclist from a traveling
carnival who quits upon finding out he has a son. He struggles to
provide for the son Jason, who's mother Romina(Eva Mendez) is now with
another man. He resorts to robbing banks. These actions lead into the
Second act which follows Avery(Bradley Cooper) after he has a traumatic
run in with Luke. Avery, a cop who also has a son, is struggling with
corruption within the police station. Soon he finds a job as the
Assistant DA. The third act takes place 15 years later. Now Luke and
Averys sons Jason and AJ are teenagers. Soon they become frenemies. All
of the actions from the first two acts collide into a dramatic finale.
That is just the gist of the plot.

The first act was emotionally tense. This was also the best of the
three acts in my opinion. Each act was like a mini movie. But this act
could have been expanded into a separate movie if possible! It was
intense, the dialogue with Ben Mendelsohns character was great. Ben
Mendelsohn should really be recognized for Best Supporting Actor here.
Gosling gives a great performance as an Outlaw type, but also a caring
man who just wants to provide for his son.

The second act featured less of the emotion from the first act and more
of the crime aspect of the movie. For a second I thought Martin
Scorcese had taken over the script. That is a compliment. Cooper also
does great acting here! At first you will hate his character, but as
you realize what is going on, you will almost forget about the first
act and now focus on the story of Avery! 

The third act seems to be getting the least praise. I am confused with
that. Some are saying it was unneeded. I strongly disagree with those
opinions! This was the perfect way to end this story! Many people are
complaining that it was too clich√© to include this part. It wasn't as
good as the first two acts, but it was still great. The fact that the
two sons meet and become friends is intriguing. It makes you wonder
what will happen scene after scene. Great climatic ending to the movie! 

The directing is top notch. This movie is beautiful to watch. It did
what movies that use an overload of CGI mostly can't do. It told a
genuinely good and tension filled story. I do like some movies with
some good CGI, but I love movies that don't rely on special effects
even more! The acting was stunning from all members of the cast. Its
hard to choose a best actor between Gosling and Cooper, but there is no
doubt in my mind that Ben Mendelsohn did a magnificent job in his
supporting role! The story of this movie is gut wrenching. Its a drama.
Its a crime drama. Its a thriller. Its even a R rated High School movie
in the final act at times. It is a modern epic tragedy. It is a tale of
karma and decisions. I personally think it is much better than Director
Derek Cianfrances last film with Gosling "Blue Valentine". This movie
had me on the edge of my seat throughout, especially in the third act.
Again regarding the third act, I think most people aren't too keen with
it because of the way one of the teens talks throughout. I got used to
it within 5 minutes though as I thought it was actually a nice touch.
The music of the movie is brilliantly placed too. The musical score by
Mike Patton was haunting and beautiful. The track "Snow Angel" is one
of the most beautiful pieces of music ever created for film. The main
theme cuts deep especially the way it was used in the film! Stay with
the credits to finalize the experience because the song "The Wolves" by
Bon Iver that plays is a true emotional masterpiece that goes well with
the movie that preceded it! 

I recommend this movie to anybody that loves a genuinely good original
movie. This movie does demand your full attention though. If needed,
you might have to put on the subtitles to fully understand some of the
less audible dialogue. But that is your personal choice. This is a
great movie for men particularly, whether you're a father, a son or
both. This movie is great for women too, but men will have a more
personal experience! This movie will stick with you either way!
<|_=00=_|>
The Place Beyond The Pines tells a unique, compelling story in a way
that I have never seen before. This movie kept me interested from start
to finish. It is far from traditional storytelling. The story is split
into three sections all very different from each other. I enjoyed each
section of the movie almost equally, but the first hour of the movie is
definitely the strongest. The movie may be slow to some, but I was
invested in the story from start to finish. This is the best I've seen
Ryan Gosling and Bradley Cooper, no doubt. There are no bad
performances but Cooper and Gosling's stand out the most. Dane Dehaan
plays an important role and does a great job of it. Dehaan is
definitely a rising star. The tone of this movie is incredible, and I
would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good drama. It is the best
movie I have seen this year, and with the breakthrough performances
throughout, this is a movie you're not going to want to miss.
<|_=00=_|>
The place beyond the pines was a bold and magnificent effort by
filmmaker Derek Cianfrance.

The movie is set with three major acts. The first focuses on Ryan
Gosling, a motorcycle stunt rider who turns to robbing banks to support
his new born child. This first act was executed with excellence.
Gosling's character is a joy to watch, the soundtrack is phenomenally
executed and the cinematography is so beautiful, not to mention
Gosling's partner in crime also manages to give an outstanding
performance.

The second act focuses on Avery Cross (Bradley Cooper), a rookie cop
trying to move up the ranks with a family of his own. The second act
was also executed with utter brilliance. Cooper's acting was beyond
brilliant, his best yet in my opinion (including his recent Silver
Linings Playbook). Cooper deserves to be rewarded for his beyond
excellent portrayal of a good cop merely trying to fulfill his duties
in a corrupt police department trying to profit from proceeds of crime.
Cooper's conflict with the corrupt detective (Ray Liotta) is tension
filled and a joy to watch.

The third act focuses on the son's of both Cooper and Gosling, who have
both grown up to become teenagers. This is by far the weakest act in
the movie in my opinion. Although I would rate this act as "good" of
itself, it simply felt like it detracted from the overall viewing
experience of the phenomenal first two acts. Although it seems the
overarching purpose of the movie was to demonstrate the impact
fatherhood (or lack of) has on kids, I felt that this last act was
simply unnecessary.

The place beyond the pines was set to be an exceptional experience with
the first two acts if it was tied up there, but the attempt to install
the third act went too far. The attempt to demonstrate the impact
fatherhood (or lack of) has on kids felt too rushed for it to have
sufficient impact on me. The first two acts of themselves were
extraordinary and the movie should have been left there! It didn't need
to be stretched out to achieve some extended purpose sought out by the
director.

Nevertheless, what we have are two excellent acts and one good one,
which, in my opinion, would equate the movie to a "very good" viewing
experience (as opposed to "excellent", "extraordinary" or "top of the
range").

In my final opinion, I would highly recommend this movie for the first
two acts alone.

PS I might also add that the introduction of Cooper's cop character
Avery has to be one of the best introductions ever! It was so subtle
and realistic. I loved it!
<|_=00=_|>
Derek Cianfrance's The Place Beyond The Pines is a visual odyssey, if
nothing else. It is also an intense character study of three people.
And it's a good film.

The story is of Luke, a motorcycle stuntman, who quits his job after he
finds out that Romina, played by Eva Mendes, his ex-girlfriend was
pregnant and had his child. The trouble is, she married another man.
Luke is torn between his new found love for his son, and his inability
to hold a steady job. So, to take care of his 'family' Luke begins to
rob banks, along with his friend, excellently portrayed by Ben
Mendelsohn. Of course, this puts him on a collision course with Bradley
Cooper's idealistic cop.

Not wishing to ruin the plot, I won't say anymore. When I first heard
the plot, I was immediately struck by the similarities to another
excellent Ryan Gosling movie, Drive. In that film, Gosling plays a
stunt driver, who takes on a job to help his neighbor. However similar
the plot may be, the two films are complete opposites. The Place Beyond
The Pines is a character driven study of morality and legacy, while
Drive is closer to the genre of an action film. However, the two films
do have one more thing in common, they both showcase excellent Ryan
Gosling performances.

In this film, Gosling's would be father, doing what he thinks is best,
is at times aggravating and intensely emotional. It's a great
performance, and a tricky one to master. But Gosling gets it, and turns
in one of his best performances. That's not to say the other
performances aren't spectacular as well. Eva Mendes turns in some of
her best work in years, playing a woman torn between her desire to be
with Gosling, and to have a normal family life with her husband.
Bradley Cooper turns in his best work yet, playing a cop torn between
his want for justice and his powerful ambition. As mentioned above, Ben
Mendelsohn turns in some great work as does Ray Liotta. Mention must go
to newcomer Dane Dehaan, performing in some of the film's most
gut-wrenching moments.

Then of course there is the director. Derek Cianfrance's style is
completely unique, and incredibly effective. He is one director to keep
an eye on. The cinematography is excellent, especially during the
opening shot, when the camera follows Gosling from his trailer, across
a fairground, onto a motorcycle and into a giant ball where Gosling
rides around. 

That's not to say the film doesn't have it's bad points. The version I
saw sagged in the end, even though it was necessary to the ending, I
still feel they could have trimmed it down. I felt myself and a couple
other audience members getting a little restless near the end.

Despite the overlong ending, the film itself was still a great
experience. A quiet moving character drama, expansive in it's scope yet
intensely personal at its core. At a Q and A at the end of the film,
Cianfrance admitted that what he really felt the film was about, was
legacy, and passing the torch from generation to generation. And I
think he is right.
