
Strength of will and right attitude are the main ingredients for
getting what you want. It is not always about being in the right place
at the right time. But also making sure those two will meet you half
way. 

"Step Up Revolution" has for once broken the stigma created by movies
where every teenage- dancing character has one and only thing in their
minds: fame and fortune. This time they go a bit deeper in search of
something more than self assurance or rebel behaviour, trying to bring
justice to their people instead of thinking the world revolves around
them. The music is not so catchy but the well choreographed flash-mob
style performances are quite interesting. It's a good entertainment for
dance lovers or anyone in the mood for a good time.
<|_=00=_|>
Each new installment of the "Step Up" franchise is a step down from the
last. "Step Up Revolution" stars Kathryn McCormick ("So You Think You
Can Dance") and Ryan Guzman. The story is about a group of dancers
called The Mob, which performs flash mobs all over the city of Miami.
In order to win a YouTube contest with a grand prize, each of their
performances are filmed and put online to get the most views that they
possibly can receive.

Sean (Guzman) first meets Emily (McCormick) at a party and she
eventually joins The Mob. However, they soon find out that some
successful businessman is planning to tear down The Mob members'
neighborhood. This businessman just happens to be Emily's father.
Didn't see that one coming

The rest of the movie involves The Mob using their talents to protest
and win their neighborhood back, while Emily is conflicted between her
father and her new crew.

My expectations were pretty low going in, but somehow this movie is
even worse than I had expected. Yes, the dancing is incredible and the
choreography is quite inventive, but it doesn't make up for the awful
acting and overly familiar story. Kathryn McCormick and Ryan Guzman had
no chemistry, nor do they have much of an acting background. The plot
is extremely predictable and the script is as cheesy as it gets.

The only enjoyable scenes are those that involve dancing. The rest is
tough to sit through. There are a few cameos in an attempt to somehow
connect the fourth "Step Up" to the previous two, which was a nice
surprise.

If you loved "Step Up 2: The Streets" and "Step Up 3D", I'm sure you'll
love this one too. It's incomparable to the first "Step Up", which is
less of a 'dance movie' and more of a movie that includes dance within
it.

I give "Step Up Revolution" a 4 out of 10. If it weren't for the
amazing dancing, I'd give it a 1.
<|_=00=_|>
Step Up Revolution is a must watch if you are street dancing fan.
Dancing gets just better and political here! Tight moves, fancy
footwork, blasting beats, spectacular group numbers n backdrop of
glitzy Miami... There's no reason you won't enjoy this one. Oh yeah,
someone knows how to take full advantage of 3D, from the opening scene
to the end credits. Kudos to "The Mob" n entire crew. Must mention, the
magic man in the background is our own Shaamak Davar. Overall, I would
call it a triumph of sheer spectacle! Yes, my review doesn't go with
the critics because what critics don't understand is, they don't make
these things to win awards, they make them so we can have fun watching!
<|_=00=_|>
When I stepped into the theater to see Step Up Revolution, I expected
cutting-edge dance. I got it and maybe better than I expected with
robust routines blending 3-D performance and modern art to tell a story
that moves from public display to public mission.

"The Mob" is a flash mob secretly doing percussive urban choreography
at different times in Miami to publish the dance on YouTube and win
$100K for the most hits. The opening sequence using vintage low-riders
in a traffic jam is spectacular, a muscular routine using very physical
dance and very physical automobiles for an enjoyable fusion of art and
pop culture.

Look, this is not Flashdance or Dirty Dancing, and Emily (Kathryn
McCormick) is not Jennifer Beals, nor is Sean (Ryan Guzman) Patrick
Swayze (or Channing Tatum from the first installment), but they are
attractive performers given simple dialogue but dynamic modern film
dancing that uses creative camera angles and minimal CGI to tell a
pleasant formulaic story. In other words, I was entertained by the
dancing and found the screenplay clichéd.

Emily's dad, Mr. Anderson (Peter Gallagher, the only true actor in the
lot), plans to build a giant complex right in the hood of the dancers,
a place romanticized for the purposes of the story but in reality a
poor wharf community. The Mob, along with Emily, fights to preserve the
area using flash mob to tell their story to the city to stop the
construction. The set pieces are uniformly exciting and executed with
such energy as to evoke the passions of youth and protest.

The story and the dialogue are pedestrian, but that dancing is so
magnetic that I might go back and see the first three films in the
series and maybe Footloose and maybe even West Side story and Strictly
Ballroom.

If for nothing else, Step Up Revolution keeps alive the romantic dance
movie genre with some steps even Fred Astaire wouldn't recognize. Now
that's revolution.
<|_=00=_|>
After having attended a couple of the early Step Up movies I gave this
one a shot to see if it might have evolved. The reality of it is: It
hasn't evolved! Characters - especially the main ones - are bland and
unbelievable - literally. The storyline couldn't be any more ordinary.
Music wise the producers tried to incorporate Dub Step as the main
music style, which didn't match the theme, nor the story.

The dance action whatsoever did accommodate the music, but missed the
overall messaging purpose of "The Mob" by miles.

Cheesy, non erotic. That sounds all pretty negative. So I am guessing
the movie addresses a very young audience. Shame.
<|_=00=_|>
When Step Up was released in 2006 with a pre-fame Channing Tatum, there
was little need for a plot or character development but they included
it anyway  and the movie, along with the hip-hop/ballet moves, was
actually really good. Six years and three sequels later, that effort
has slowly diminished; at this point in the franchise it's 100% about
the dancing and nothing else. Subsequently Miami Heat is essentially
the cinematic version of 'So You Think You Can Dance', albeit without
the talentless gits that hog the early episodes for comedic value. The
high-concept toe-tapping sequences come thick and fast and mercifully
keep the acting and dialogue to a minimum, however the sheer
implausibility of the set pieces  called "protest art" or some crap 
grinds over time. Fans of the series can kick back and enjoy, all
others should give it a miss.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Just to start off I
am not the kind of person to negatively review something unless it is
truly terrible enough to deserve it. The story line of this movie is
terrible and completely unrealistic. I understand it is a dance movie
but to think that dancing this is going to make some monumental
difference in society is ridiculous. Also to make it as though they are
facing having to serve hard time in the Big House for dancing around
just comes off as dumb. It drives me crazy to watch movies like this
that try to pull off some sort of profound message but fail miserably.
It is sad to think about all the young boys and girls out there who
will grow up idealizing movies like this. These movies should stick to
dancing and leave the messages to serious movie makers. If you feel the
need to watch this movie I recommend saving yourself time and just fast
forward to the dance scenes.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the worst Step Up movie I've ever seen.

We've got a guy and a girl from different worlds who fall in love.
Check. We've got a competition to win. Check. And then we've got
everything else.. The crew has like 50 people in it and they all hope
that winning $100k will change their life. That's $2k a person. Wow!
And by the way, they drive cars that are worth like $100k each. And
those tools they use to create so called "ART" cost thousands of $$$
too. So nice to be poor in America! The main conflict among a
boyfriend, a girlfriend and a boyfriend's best pal comes out of
nowhere. The pal gets upset without a reason and messes everything up,
then a girlfriend gets angry with her boyfriend with no reason too. And
how everything turns out is even more amusing.

Cheap movie, bad script. I give 3 out of 10 just because there were a
few nice girls and an Ocean :)
<|_=00=_|>
I have always been a step up fan from the first one..with my personal
favorite being the second one.I went to watch this after reading all
the negative reviews,but after watching it ...i have to say it was
awesome....just the whole dance and music will keep u on your seats
frustrated enough to get up and dance....who cares about the storyline
for an ultimate dance musical movie like step up...its all for fun for
the adrenaline rush ....still this time they introduced concept dancing
of a cause and it does make sense...it has a point in it and that was
good...all the way it is surely a movie for all the step up fans who
loves dance and music and a hell lot of fun mixed with it.....
<|_=00=_|>
I am shedding my weird, creepy hoody that I hide out with and telling
everyone that I am a fan of the Step Up franchise. Yes I'm a little
embarrassed and honestly I'm not saying the movies are good but as far
as guilty pleasures go they are absolutely divine. With the exception
of the first installment which although starred a young sexy Channing
Tatum in his first lead role took it self way too seriously to be
entertaining. And thats a huge reason why these films work because from
it's superior sequel, best of the franchise and one of the best dance
movies ever made Step Up 2 The Streets the movies have found this odd
balance off fiery kinetic dancing, likable personalities, overly
melodramatic and unintentionally funny performances, ferocious
cinematography and hammy storytelling that just works. You laugh, you
clap and sometimes you tear up at the clichéd and expected finale. This
entry fares better than the last which was still pretty damn good. It
centers on "The Mob" a dance group of struggling artists looking to
make their mark on pop culture by staging creative dance mobs so that
they can get 10,000,000 views on you tube and get a hefty $100,000
prize. (which split between the 50 person team isn't very much but I'll
let it pass). Anyways he comes in contact with another struggling young
dancer whose well not very struggling since her Daddy is a billionaire
whose looking to tear down the middle/poor class neighborhood they live
in and make it into a huge resort. Enter the film's interestingly semi
fleshed out plot as they decide to change their flash mobs from breezy
dance numbers to ones with meaning as they protest "The Man" so to
speak. Of course their is some third act drama to cause a downward
spiral before wrapping it up in the films inspired finale which was in
fact inspired by the classic film The Warriors. The dancing is amazing
and for the first time in the series they incorporate different styles
of dance such as contemporary and modern to successfully winning
measures. Kathryn McCormick of So you think you can dance has some
crazy sizzle in the lead when it comes to her dancing but her acting is
well questionable in the essence of I'm not actually sure that's what
she's doing. Slightly more successful and way hotter is MMA fighter
Ryan Guzman as the film's thankfully mostly shirtless leading man. He's
got the body of a Greek god and the talent when it comes to dancing but
hey let's just leave the acting out of this equation. You know there's
a problem when the film's best performance dramatically is from Peter
Gallagher as her over bearing, greedy Father. And watching the two of
them together trying to force some type of connection is akin to
watching erasers on a desk facing each other. That being said they are
hot and very talented when dancing. And when they are it's fire. And
thats basically the film as with the other installments when they try
for the drama it's unintentionally funny and it works in a so bad it's
good way but when they perform you see the kinetic, addictive energy
that makes these films so endearing. 4/5
