
I only had one thought on my mind for this Christmas: see Django
Unchained. Quentin Tarantino's latest opus, a Western set two years
before the Civil War, concerns a former slave named Django (Jamie
Foxx). He is freed by bounty hunter Dr. King Shultz (Christoph Waltz)
in order to help him with a bounty. Quite quickly, Shultz takes Django
under his wing and trains him as his partner. But he made him a
promise: that he would rescue his wife from a plantation owned by the
ruthless Calvin Candie (Leonardo DiCaprio). And rescuing her is not
going to be all that easy.

What pains me the most about Django Unchained, as a die-hard Tarantino
fan, is just how sloppy it all seems. I enjoyed every minute of it, but
I could never shake the feeling of how messy and thrown together it all
feels. Portions of the film feel episodic (the search for the Brittle
Brothers, mentioned heavily in the trailers, begins and ends
practically within minutes), and some scenes just seem to play out just
for the fun of it. Another scene from the trailers involving a lynch
mob with bags covering their faces seems added for comedic purposes,
and has no real point of actually existing. More than any of his films
before it, Django feels like Tarantino simply making a movie for sheer
pleasure and with no outside motivations or controllers. 

The film threatens to go totally off the rails at any given moment, and
lacks any real sense of direction or focus. It may sound ridiculous,
but the loss of editor Sally Menke confirms a sneaking suspicion I
always had about Tarantino  he needed a steady right hand to help
encourage him as to what was needed and what was not. I do not want to
criticize Django's editor Fred Raskin, but it is obvious he is no Menke
and that works against the film heavily. It lacks the polish we have
come to expect, and is practically stripped of the glossy/cool texture
so prevalent in Tarantino's work up until now.

But then maybe that was his intention all along, and perhaps Tarantino
is airing out his frustrations with life and film in general. Django is
deliberately shot on film (or at least from the print I saw), and looks
very gritty and messy at all times. It is significantly more brutally
violent than anything he has worked on before (the borderline
cartoonish Kill Bill included), and has a very go for broke attitude
about itself. The film seems to revel in how brilliantly it can
splatter all the blood and gore (done through the use of squibs and no
digital!), and how uncomfortably numbing it can make the violence. I
know he does not care what people think of his films, but this movie
especially seems like an emphatically raised middle finger to the
establishment. And for all of my complaints about how messy it all
feels, I was never once bored or felt like the movie was dragging
itself out. The staggering 165-minute running time shockingly flies by
faster than you might ever imagine.

Acting wise, Tarantino stacks the deck with a number of recognizable
character actors young and old for roles that vary in size. Most have
very few lines, if any at all, and seem to just stand by, just as
content as the audience is to watch the action unfold. It is a little
off-putting, especially with how important some of these characters are
initially made out to be. Washington as Broomhilda von Shaft (one of
the most subtle references he's ever dropped) does well as the helpless
victim and frequent dreamlike object  but she never really gets to
show off any of her acting prowess outside of her facial reactions.
They are increasingly effective, especially during horrific flashback
scenes. But her work here feels ridiculously stunted in comparison to
the other leads. Samuel L. Jackson, much like Tarantino himself, seems
to just be having fun in his role as Candie's adviser Stephen. He plays
on every ridiculous stereotype he ever has been associated with and
then amps it up to a near ludicrous state. He is frequently hilarious,
but the role seems to border on parody more than anything else.

Surprisingly, Foxx takes a very long time settling into the leading
role. It may just be the character, but it is quite clear from the on-
set that he is not very comfortable in Django's shoes, and leads
credence to why Will Smith, amongst so many others, dropped out of the
picture so quickly. But once he finds his footing, he does a fantastic
job walking the thin line between empathetic and sadistic. It is not an
easy character to play, but Foxx makes it his own, bringing a sense of
style and grace that are virtually absent from the rest of the film.
And of course, he gets all the best lines.

Waltz and DiCaprio are the clear standouts however, nailing every
nuance of their sadly underwritten characters. While Waltz plays the
straight man, DiCaprio is delightfully unhinged and vicious. Both are
playing directly against type, yet are strangely comfortable in the
roles. Watching them act circles around the rest of the cast, Foxx
included, is the true highlight of the film. I just wish they were both
given additional emphasis and more to do. 

For all of its numerous faults, I had a blast watching Django
Unchained. It is hilarious, it is a lot of fun, and is wildly
enjoyable. I genuinely think it could have been a lot better if there
was more focus and direction, but this is very clearly a picture
Tarantino wanted to make on his own terms. And for that, I applaud him
for the effort. It is not his best work, but certainly not his worst. 

8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Absolutely loved every minute of this movie. Usually I'm not too crazy
about Tarantino's movies, but this one is definitely the best one I've
seen in a long time. The actors were picked perfectly. The overall
experience of a movie is amazing. When we first went to watch it, I was
a bit skeptical and thought I'd end up leaving an hour into the movie
(it's a 3 hr movie), but it grabbed my attention from the very
beginning and I didn't even wanna get up to go to the bathroom, afraid
to miss something. I'm usually very particular about the movies,
nothing can hardly satisfy me, but this one is definitely in the top 5.
Soundtrack was perfect. When I got home, I've done some more research
on it and loved it even more! Overall, I would highly recommend this
film!
<|_=00=_|>
Merry Christmas to all you Tarantino fans out there. I hope you made a
Tarantino checklist so here we go.

Witty dialogue, check. Excessive profanity especially use the word
'nigger', check. Excessive violence including testicles getting blown
off, check. Soulful musical score, check. Sometimes non-linear
narrative, check. Shots of women's feet, check. Very great character
driven plot, check. An actual spaghetti western, even though it takes
place in the American South, check.

There are four standout characters played by the top billed actors.

Jamie Foxx plays Django, a freed slave who becomes a bounty hunter.
Even though he is the titular character, he gets downplayed when in the
presence of the other actors. Still he delivers a solid performance, in
fact hes very convincing. We all know Jamie Foxx as this golden voice
RnB singer and comedian with a very clean cut image. He was able to
pull off the whole transitioning from a timid slave to a menacing
bounty hunter. Not only that he had the whole look down too, with all
the facial scarring and the messy hair.

Christoph Waltz plays Dr. King Schulz, a German dentist turned bounty
hunter who frees Django so he could help pursue his previous owners who
are targets. Waltz is a very charismatic actor, and thats how he does
this role. Presents every line with finesse.

Leonardo Dicaprio is in his best yet. He plays a plantation owner,
Calvin Candie, and is the owner of Django's wife. This is a very
different role. We've seen Leonardo in gritty roles before but never
did he play this lecherous antagonist. We were all used to Leo being
this teen idol, who looked like a member of Hanson. Here he's this
Southerner with discoloured teeth and a scruffy beard.

Finally Samuel L. Jackson who plays Steve, a house slave who you could
say is the secret antagonist here. For all the screen time that he has
he dominates. Sam usually plays boisterous roles as a tough guy, but it
was very interesting seeing him play a devious and manipulative old
man.

The only gripe here was that this film was a little too long exceeding
the three act structure, but its an epic western film so I'll excuse
Tarantino for that. Yet again he made another great film with a lot of
flair and carried well by the four big hitter actors. Well done Mr.
Tarantino.
<|_=00=_|>
Quentin Tarantino's 8th film "Django Unchained" is one hell of a movie.
A brutal, bloody, terrifying, hilarious and awe-inspiring western
disguised as a buddy movie that is so great that if John Wayne and
Sergio Leone were alive now, they would've approve of this movie. It's
designed to shock you, polarize you, test you and maybe even surprise
you. But let me clear on this: If you are not a fan of bloody violence
and the running length of 165 minutes, see a shorter movie. But if you
love to see what Tarantino can do with movies like this, then you're in
for a treat. Set during slavery in 1858, the movie follows Django
(Jamie Foxx), a slave who is found by a bounty hunter disguised as a
dentist named Dr. King Schultz (The always reliable Christoph Waltz)
who hires him as a bounty hunter and a free man to find the Brittle
Brothers. After finding them and hunting them down at a plantation run
by Big Daddy (a remarkable Don Johnson), they relax for the winter only
for them to go on a mission to find and rescue Django's wife,
Broomhilda (Kerry Washington) who is owned by Calvin J. Candie
(Leonardo DiCaprio) a man who runs a plantation known as Candieland. He
even has a renegade slave as a servant named Stephen (A nearly
recognizable Samuel L. Jackson, hidden in makeup and some prosthetics),
who will have a part to play in the last half of the movie. I think
Quentin Tarantino has outdone himself once again. Being in the
filmmaking game for 20 years now, you can't deny and even reject his
style in what he is bringing to the screen (He also has a cameo in here
as well). His dialogue is like reading a book that grabs you and makes
you want to know what happens next. The look and scope of the film is
magnificent, thanks to a brilliant Oscar-winning cinematographer Robert
Richardson and the late production designer J. Michael Riva. The
performances in this film are brilliant. Having won an Oscar for "Ray",
Jamie Foxx continues with his breathtaking performances that wows us.
Here as Django, he is certainly fearless, baring his soul (and body)
playing a man who is free from slavery, but can't be free by the rules
and limitations of slavery. Christoph Waltz looks like he was born to
be a part of Tarantino's entourage after his Oscar-winning performance
for "Inglorious Basterds". Here, once again he brings humor and
vulnerability to Dr. King Schultz. Never before have I ever seen an
actor go that far and doesn't go over-the-top like Leonardo DiCaprio.
As Calvin Candie, DiCaprio is certainly Oscar-worthy as a man who runs
a tight ship by running a place where male slaves fight to the death
and female slaves are being prostitutes and he seems to be the kind of
guy to like even though he is a villain and he speaks Tarantino's
dialogue like a pro. When he has a scene in which he reveals three
dimples from a skull that belongs to his father, he is literally
terrifying. Kerry Washington is superb as Broomhilda and Samuel L.
Jackson is the real scene-stealer. The supporting cast is great from
Walton Goggins, Jonah Hill, Michael Bacall, Michael Parks, James Remar,
Robert Carradine to a small cameo by Franco Nero. "Django Unchained"
has a lot of things to say about slavery and how cruel it is. But at
the same time, it provides the fact that if Tarantino rearranged
history by shooting Adolf Hitler to a pulp while everything blows up at
a movie theater, he can do it again by having a former slave whipping a
man who used to beat him and his wife. Now, that's entertainment. This
movie really is off the chain. It's not only one of the most
captivating films of the year, it's one of the best films of the year.
Go see it, it will be worth your time. Keep in mind though, there are
characters, especially Django, Stephen, Candie and Schultz that uses
the N-word numerous times in this movie. That seems relevant to the
time period, don't ya think?
<|_=00=_|>
Quentin Tarantino, one of the most iconic directors of the 21st (and
late 20th) century, why? Simple. Because of masterpieces like this.
Tarantino defies the laws of film, he shoots them in his own way,
however he wants. Tarantino has always focused upon the action thriller
genre from Reservoir Dogs up until Inglourious Basterds. However,
Django Unchained is Tarantino's first look at the Western genre, his
first attempt at it and he executed it beautifully. The scenes were
shot perfectly alongside an amazing soundtrack as well as his own small
cameo.

Django Unchained tells the story of Django (Jamie Foxx), a slave who is
soon picked up by bounty hunter Dr King Shultz (Christoph Waltz). The
story follows on as Shultz takes on Django as his "deputy" during their
tasks of bounty hunting, in return Shultz says that after winter he
will help find Django's lost wife, Broomhilda. This takes them to a
huge plantation in Mississippi owned by Calvin Candie (Leonardo
DiCaprio), from here they plan up a scheme on how to get away with
Broombilda.

The cast boast out amazing performances, particularly Christoph Waltz
(also famous for his previous collaboration with Tarantino on
Inglourious Bastards as Colonel Landa). Both Foxx and DiCaprio's
performance are both equally amazing. All three are able to add some
light-hearted humour in the mix to make sure it doesn't stay too
serious, as well as having comic actor Jonah Hill play a member of the
KKK.

There's a reason the film has been nominated for 5 Oscars.
<|_=00=_|>
I know there is a law against talking about internal logic with regard
to QT-movies. But I'm quite a bit fed up with sloppy, dyslexic screen
writing and I'm feeling kind of outlawish, so here I go: Initially
Schultz (Christoph Waltz) asks for Django's help, because Django is an
acquaintance of three fugitives, the bounty hunter Schultz is after. A
"Dead or Alive"-handbill with its sketchy description and drawing is
not very reliable and shooting the wrong guy can easily happen and it
will just as easily get yourself hanged. Therefore the recruiting of
Django does make perfect sense. Looking for another wanted man Schultz
enters the next town, where he's never been, meets him, who is now the
sheriff of this town and whom he's never seen, and kills him after a
few seconds, without even talking to him. This is the moment "Django
Unchained" stops making sense.

Schultz is a cold blooded serial killer who murders people because some
sheet of paper tells him that he's got the right to do so. He is a
hypocrite, he gets mad at someone who also executes his state approved
right to kill, but with sadistic pleasure. Murder is fine as long as
the state tells you so and you do it for business, not for fun. In the
original Spaghetti Western a guy like that would have always been the
villain, many of the heroes were "Wanted Men" themselves. In "Django
Unchained" he is the only human and sympathetic figure and without any
doubt the main character. In many ways the spirit of "Django Unchained"
is the exact opposite of that found in the movies Tarantino tried to
emulate.

The story of the bland eponymous Django's development from slave in
chains and rags to sharp dressed gunslinger with sunglasses is above
all ridiculous and boring. So after Schultz's exit this excessively
overlong movie becomes even more of an ordeal, although you get to see
the explosion of a queer, ugly old geezer, who really deserved to die.
He is played by QT himself and that's only something to look forward to
and no spoiler, because naturally it has little plot relevance.

"Django Unchained" is about hating a whole ethnic group, just like
"Inglourious Basterds", where Tarantino made sure to avoid the
impression that there could be a German (a "Nazi") who wasn't
devilishly evil. The nice young Zoller turns out to be a wannabe rapist
and the clever detective Landa (Waltz) turns into a monster, strangling
a helpless woman to death. After all Tarantino wanted his viewers to
enjoy the butchering of hundreds of Germans in a cinema hall. In
"Django Unchained" the murderous Schultz is the only decent white guy.
All the others are preoccupied with torturing and humiliating blacks,
so there is no need to dehumanize them any further. Will some savior
please rise and rid the world of this evil? 

"Django Unchained" tells the sentimental education of this savior,
Django, that ends with the exit of his teacher. Now the Hate is strong
with this one. He uses it for the righteous cause, to kill white
people. All of them. The murders of the self-righteous are always cool
and justified, right? Hypocrisy is the new religion. Tarantino is one
of its high priests, "Django Unchained" is a High Mass. Enjoy! 

"Once Upon a Time in the West", "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly", "Pat
Garrett & Billy the Kid" - those are masterworks. "Django Unchained" is
the work of a slave, designed to debase its audience.
<|_=00=_|>
At first I didn't want to see this movie because of some political
remarks made by Jamie Foxx and Samuel Jackson, two of my previously
favorite actors, but Quintin Tarentino is a great director, so I broke
down and saw it. Glad I did. This was absolutely one of the best movies
of the year. Although Jamie Foxx has top billing, this film would not
have been anywhere as good without Christoph Waltz. He stole every
scene he was in. Brilliant acting and great comedic delivery. Leo was
great too. Lots of blood, something expected in most of Quintins
movies, but a great story. Also expect to hear the N word about 2000
times. Cristoph Waltz should get the Oscar for his performance. Should
get nominated for best picture. This is absolutely a must see.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never been a fan of Quentin Tarantino, but I know that other
people think he's great so I decided to give him another chance and
actually paid $3 to see "Django Unchained." I was surprised to find
that I liked the first part of the movie. It was interesting, funny,
suspenseful, and actually seemed to have a point. Some of the story
strained credulity (look it up), but it stayed within the bounds of
believability... until the German bounty hunter shot DeCaprio. Then
believability went out the window.

The movie didn't even make sense within itself. The entire film built
up Dr. Schultz as not only a great shot, but also an extremely cunning
strategist. And yet, he shot DeCaprio and then just stupidly said, "I
couldn't help it!" and stood there waiting to be killed. (Which he
was.) But his derringer had two barrels, which presumably means two
bullets, so why didn't he whirl around and shoot the guy who was
standing there with a gun?

He could have, but then there wouldn't have been the bloodbath that
follows, which I guess is Quentin Tarantino's "signature." The movie
quickly degenerates into a stupid, pointless bloodbath. White guys come
out of nowhere to be shot, blood gets spattered everywhere, and so
what?

Then the film gets even worse! The black guy who killed so many white
people is in the hands of his oppressors, yet instead of torturing and
killing him, they decide to send him off to a (allegedly horrible)
mine, thus giving him the opportunity to escape and wreak his horrible
vengeance. Does this seem believable to ANYONE? 

After that, it's completely predictable. I don't need to tell you what
happens because you can figure it out for yourself. But think about
this: the movie makes a big deal about how nobody in the South back
then was used to seeing a black person on a horse. For most of the
film, the white Dr. Schultz accompanied Django and helped smooth the
way. But at the end of the movie, Django and his (black) wife ride away
on horses -- in Mississippi before the Civil War! So they'll just
wander through the South to freedom? Really?? What a great happy
ending! I could criticize this piece of sh*t on many more levels, but
I've wasted enough time on it.

I actually liked the first 3/4 of this film. I absolutely HATED the
last section. And ultimately, Quentin Tarantino's popularity says
something troubling about the state of American culture.
<|_=00=_|>
I rarely bother to give reviews after watching a movie. But holy crap
this was a good movie. I'm pretty sure it is the best movie i've seen
all year. and yes i saw dark knight rises, avengers, flight, Argo,
hobbit, etc... Tarantino delivers and then some.. Every actor is on
point. Awesome performances, great story, it will definitely take you
on a ride full of surprises. I would recommend everyone to go watch
this film, it is truly a great film.. unless you're a little kid..
don't go watch this movie if you're a little kid. I've seen all of
Tarantinos movies and I have to say this has been my favorite. It is
just awesome in every way. I'm usually very harsh on movies. I mean ill
watch just about anything, but for me to think a movie was actually
"good", takes a whole lot. DiCaprio was like i've never seen him
before, and being one of my favorite actors, it was a little weird at
first. But he does an outstanding job at selling his role within
seconds of his first appearance. Waltz delivered as i knew he would.
and Jaime Foxx, well he did not fall behind. Last but not least Jackson
was hilarious and also did an amazing job... Go watch the movie, it is
worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
Jesus, where to begin. Completely juvenile, rabbit trails galore, slow
moving, get to the firkin point. The way the scenes drag and the
endless explaining and talking. This movie was so distasteful,
predictable and irritating. First of all, Foxx was miscast, he does not
do period well, at all, totally unbelievable here, after years of
slavery he's suddenly the fastes gun in the west, PLEASE! 

The music, what are we to make of the modern day music with the period
events here, you can't take any of it seriously. I had to laugh was so
absolutely silly and out of place. I have lost all respect for
writer/director, the actors I can only hope were in it for the money,
but they lose my vote now too.

Open your EYES folks, for god sakes this is all about bringing
division, "I wanna shoot white people and get paid for it". WOW, talk
about the globalist elite wanting to distract and divide, this is one
of their vehicles. Good for you Hollywood and Washington DC, add
another notch to your ugly crown.
