
I actually thought this was a pretty good movie, despite the relatively
low ratings. Both McConaughey and Ram√≠rez played very well, also good
to see Stoll in this movie. The story was entertaining, never a dull
moment (unlike Moonlight, sorry, but that was really boring and I
believed the rave reviews...). Anyway, it was worth seeing it!
<|_=00=_|>
I reviewed only one movie on IMDb so far, but "Gold" is much better
than the ratings and other users' reviews suggest, so it's good to
balance things out. 

First of all, you have a three-dimensional protagonist you can
sympathize with. He's unattractive, unlucky, drinking way too much -
like most of us are, ha ha. In fact, Kenny is very human with his flaws
and ambitions, and this is fantastically portrayed by Matthew
McConaughey (it's not about his fake teeth, weight gain or shaved head,
it's about his ability to make you care about the character). The
script is tight, smart, bitter-sweet and funny at times, because it's a
dark comedy. Well, sort of. And while it may not stay true to reality
(the Bre-X scandal), it's preceded with a note "Inspired by true
events", not "Based on". After all, it's a movie. And as a movie, it's
better than most things you're gonna watch this year. Or last, for that
matter.

Plus, the soundtrack is just great (Iggy Pop, Joy Division, New Order,
Pixies), as is its use in particular scenes.

5/6 in my book, 8/10 according to IMDb standards.
<|_=00=_|>
Essentially, 'Gold' is an old fashioned adventure movie. A hostile
environment, changing fortunes, shifting alliances, unexpected
adversaries, a seemingly betrayed friendship: it's all there. But the
setting is out of the ordinary: it's the financial world with millions
of dollars pumped into promising mining stocks. But those millions can
just as quickly be withdrawn when the prospects change.

The adventurer in the midst of it all is Kenny Wells, son of a Nevada
gold prospector and heir to an almost bankrupt mining company. In an
all-or-nothing attempt, he travels to Indonesia for a meeting with a
legendary drilling expert. The next step is to find the money required
for the drilling. What follows, is a roller-coaster ride of successes
and setbacks.

Matthew McConaughey is amazing as Kenny Wells, a raving maniac with a
fearless can-do mentality and a complete lack of respect for Wall
Street hotshots or mining moguls. This is one of his best roles ever,
and it's worth an Oscar. You can see the doubt in the eyes of everyone
he meets: is this a madman who doesn't know what he's up to, or a
go-getter who doesn't give up until he reaches his goal? Wells is both,
and McConaughey makes his complex character completely believable.

There are some extra layers in the story underlining this complexity:
the relationship with his wife Kay, and the friendship with his
business partner Mike Acosta. The latter is responsible for the
spectacular ending of the story, with a really nice surprise in the
last seconds.

The whole story is based on the Bre-X scandal, which hit the worldwide
headlines in the nineties. Some details are changed, but on the whole
the story follows the real events pretty accurate. The scandal was a
prime example of excessive capitalist greed, and the film is a nice
reminder of it.
<|_=00=_|>
An easy example of how everybody goes mad around gold is this movie
that tells a story about massive if can be called fraud but more trick
played. Kenny Wells (Matthew McCounaghey) is a successor of company
that deals with findings of minerals and making profits outs of it and
as time went by they were running deeper and deeper into a hole. After
all hopes are lost Kenny decides to take a big risk and travel to
Indonesian to meet with Michael Acosta. Michael (Edgar Ramirez) is a
geologist that has belief that gold is somewhere in forests in
Indonesia so he gets Kenny to turn everything around and help him dig
that out. After being sick for many weeks and almost dying and when all
hopes seemed lost Edgar bring a happy news. They found gold so now only
thing that needs to be done is to find someone to finance that digging
and there comes Jeff Jackson (Timothy Simons). He gets so hooked up to
idea that there is a massive gold lying somewhere around that he
manages to get a lot people in buying stocks of Wells company.
Everything was going great but after discovery that it was all set up
by Edgar and that he got away with ton of money movie just gets mad.
There is everybody being tricked by one guy and story losses it power
because of fact that they all forgot to check report and analyse in
their greed and belief in him. Including love life of Kenny and his
girlfriend Kay in story was something that should not be bigger focus
but at times it felt that way. Story seems great and there is some of
good dialogue but it lacks in focus on importance of things but feels
surreal and silly to even happen. Ending was a huge improvement in
story and it probably lift character of Edgar. 2.5/4
<|_=00=_|>
Gold is, by far, the oddest film of the Oscar season. It's not good
enough to be featured with some other award-based films yet it is far
from being a bad film. It's just a very uninspired piece of filmmaking
that had an excellent script and a great cast to it, yet no flavor to
the filmmaking here. It is a standardized piece that serves as a
lackluster love letter to Martin Scorsese and David O. Russell without
ever really admitting it. Majority of this film is spent watching
McCounaughey's Kenny Wells as he maneuvers through businessmen that
want him to be put down, political groups that want to steal his
fortune and friends he can barely trust. It sounds like an amazing film
and it could have been had Gaghan not directed this film himself. Every
frame that passes, it feels like Gaghan was either worried about
feeling too much like Scorsese or worried that it wasn't enough like
Scorsese. Either way, we know where his influences lie here. Honestly,
you're better off watching The Wolf of Wall Street, if you're hoping
for something like that.

Stephen Gaghan is a very talented writer, he's given us very layered
stories with very interesting characters but this particular topic
feels like it went over his head. It is never engaging enough to
sustain lasting power. McConaughey and the rest of the cast do a fine
job, nothing outstanding but fine nonetheless. This was probably the
most disappointing part of this film. Over the past 5 years, Matthew
McConaughey has given us more than enough reason to love his
performances. They're layered, they're relate-able and, most of all,
they're acted to perfection. This performance, in which he trades in
his slim physique for a bloated, overweight and balding man. Right off
the bat, this may have been a physically demanding role for McConaughey
and he does put his all into his performance but it still doesn't match
the caliber of his previous performances. His dedication is clear but
it still didn't feel like the great performance we thought he could
give in this film which comes back to the issue of Gaghan's direction.

Overall, Gold is far from a bad movie. There are cool scenes in it that
are bound to interest you even if it's for a little bit. But this is a
film that comes down to a problem with the director. Gaghan, while
being a very talented writer, has a hard time determining his own
vision for a film that had many chances to be great but failed to
really capitalize on any of its strengths. By the end of the film, you
won't feel cheated out of your ticket money but I'm sure you won't feel
all that good about it either.
<|_=00=_|>
First of, Gold is better than its IMDb rating and meta-score. I feel
this movie is a victim of the studio going wild with a pair of
scissors, trying to make it short(er) (even at 2 hours) to please the
mainstream audience, but while doing that, this movie loses a lot of
substance. Character development is lacking, apart from our
protagonist, so it doesn't really feel like we get to know them. One
moment we have a new (seemingly an important) character, and then he or
she will either disappear or roam in the background. I guess that
happens when you start cutting. I suspect there's a great version of
this movie out there, and I'd rather watch a 3 hour version with
everything included, than this. The movie also takes place in the late
80's(?) or early 90's, but I don't feel like time was important here,
which makes things a little confusing. I have no idea if they've been
at something for a week, a month, or five years. 

The whole movie also feels a little rushed in the sense that it tries
to get to the end as quickly as possible. It lacks the details; Slow
down a little, speak to us, breathe. I want to know more, I want to see
more, but it ends up being a National Geographic article instead of a
book. 

It's far from bad though, and it's an enjoyable watch. Just don't go in
expecting a masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
"Gold" is an American movie in the English language from 2016 and the
most recent directorial effort by Oscar-winning writer Stephan Gaghan.
He did not write it this time, but the script is by Emmy nominees
Massett and Zinman. It runs for pretty much two hours exactly and
Oscar-winning actor Matthew McConaughey is basically in every scene
during these 120 minutes. I must say I enjoyed the watch pretty much,
even if the formula behind the film is more simple than it may seem.
It's basically all about the ups and downs of the protagonist. Up#1 He
is having a great job at a prestigious prospector mostly thanks to his
dad. Down#1 His dad is dead and he is low on money not finding any
investors. Up#2 He reunites with a partner in an attempt to find gold.
Down#2 He suffers from malaria and the workers leave. Up#3 The workers
return, they find gold and he is healthy again. Down#3 A rich company
uses their political connections to "steal" all the gold. Up#4 With the
help of a politician's son, he manages to get the gold back and also
gains a prestigious award. Down#4 It all proves to be a scam and the
protagonist a victim like everybody else, except his partner. Up#5 The
fact that there will be no criminal proceedings apparently and the
final letter.

So yeah, it's a roller-coaster of emotions for McConaughey's character
here and he gives a pretty strong performance that is deserving of
awards attention too, though probably not as much as his Oscar-winning
turn because the subject is also not really that significant by today's
standards. As for the story, there may have been one or two plot twists
too many eventually, but it's okay if you don't really look for
extremely great depth or so. Not that there isn't any, but the film is
at times just a bit for the sake of it and may take itself a tad too
seriously. There are some comedy moments too with everything about the
protagonist like the yellow roses scene. But McConaughey plays a really
likable character I think and especially his private life when it comes
to romance depicts him as somebody worth cheering for. He is dedicated,
his name means more to him than money and he is also not scared of hard
labor to reach his goals. The wrong decisions he makes perhaps really
only result from people next to him that have a negative impact on him
like the slutty journalist woman or Stoll's character. It's maybe
accurate to describe the central character as a mix of a raccoon and
King Midas in this story. I also think the last shot is really
interesting as you can still debate if he was in it the whole time or
just got lucky with his former partner sending him half of the money.
Of course he will not give it back, but at that point, if he wasn't in
on it all the time you like the character enough that you won't blame
him for it. The film may not make a powerful statement on greed (like
TWBB for example) even if it really wants to, but that's fine as it
succeeds sufficiently in other areas instead, maybe even some where it
did not really try to.

Anyway, after talking so much about McConaugehy's character, lets also
say a few words about Edgar Ramirez ("Carlos"). I quite like him and I
think he did a great job with the character. This was pretty tough as
his character makes pretty much the biggest waves when he is visually
out of the picture, namely in the last 20 minutes, but i think Ramirez
holds his own very well next to McConaughey despite not having great
material to work with at all. And that means quite something as
McConaughey's transformation from weak cheesy romance to one of
Hollywood's finest is something that cannot be denied. Also some good
supporting players in here like Keach and Nelson and even the annoying
one from "Veep" was somewhat bearable here. Eventually, I would not say
it is one of the best films of the year, but still worth checking out,
especially if you like Matthew McConaughey. It is somewhat true that
these days you cannot really go wrong with him. Alright alright alright
watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why this movie has been underrated so much. It deserves at
least 8. If you liked Blow, or Wolf of Wall Street... this is just as
good! Maybe not so deep story, but still, amazing Matthew does what
he's supposed to.

Don't follow the ratings and check this out!
<|_=00=_|>
The synopsis of this film couldn't be more misleading. This is NOT 'a
journey to find gold in the uncharted jungle of Indonesia', like the
synopsis suggests. It's more like an office drama set in the big city,
with only sporadic scenes of actual gold hunting. It has completely the
wrong focus and is told in a way that the viewer can't help but feel
detached from everything that's happening on screen.

Part of the problem is that this film is supposed to be based on a true
story, yet the whole thing feels like pretentious Hollywood crap. It's
dull and emotionless. The entertainment in this film is restricted to
only a few scenes, while the rest of the film is just extended scenes
of dialogue, which the audience couldn't care less about. Speaking of
the dialogue, a lot of scenes at the start are mumbled and difficult to
understand, which only added to my dissatisfaction.
<|_=00=_|>
A few years ago a performance like the one Matthew McConaughey delivers
here in Stephen Gaghan's based on a true tale Gold would've created
quite a stir.

It's a credit to the actor, who resurrected his career from the
doldrums of so-so romcoms, Surfer Dudes and other forgettable affairs
to all of a sudden become an Oscar winning and HBO headlining legend
but with that career revival has come an expectation that McConaughey
going method and fully inhabiting his characters is the normal and
therefore less of an event that it was, a mere few years ago.

No more so evident than in the fact Gold came and disappeared with very
little fanfare in the awards season rush at the end of 2016,
McConaughey chewing up the scenery wasn't enough to draw people into
the cinemas, as the beer bellied, hair thinning and sweaty thespian
found himself being the best thing about a so-so film that never feels
completely assured of itself.

Telling the rather complex story of struggling 1980's American
prospector/mining magnate Kenny Wells, who found fame and wealth by
teaming up with prospecting master Michael Acosta in the jungles of
Indonesia, Syriana director and Traffic screenwriter Stephen Gaghan
never pieces together the many various elements of Well's story into a
satisfactory whole as events come and go and Well's journey takes its
twists and turns.

As is with any film in the vein of Gold, it's always a fine balance for
a filmmaker to strike the perfect line between pandering to an audience
or keeping them in the dark and unfortunately for Gold there ends up
being too many times where we're left in the lurch a little by the
plights affecting Well's while some scenes in the film that feel hugely
important to the whole scheme of things, often feel underutilised or
passed over which leaves the trials and adversities of this American
mogul emotionally unengaging.

What can't be denied in the film however is the aforementioned work of
McConaughey, who's a joy to watch as Wells, the car crash waiting to
happen.

In a loaded cast that includes an underused Bryce Dallas Howard as
Well's long-suffering girlfriend Kay, Edgar Ramirez as Acosta, Corey
Stoll as Wall Street player Brian Woolf and Toby (needs a new agent)
Kebbell as FBI investigator Paul Jennings, McConaughey stands head and
shoulders above the rest and while its far from his best turn over
recent years, it's a quality actor that can deliver such above average
performances on cue, as McConaughey does here.

Sometimes clad in nothing more than some worn-out white underpants or
looking dishevelled beyond belief, McConaughey's turn as Well's
deserves a better film and showcases what might've been for Gold had it
managed to match the chaotic nature of its main character and the
commitment of its on form leading man.

Final say ¬ñ 

Digging up another memorable McConaughey turn, Gold doesn't strike it
rich due to tonal issues and a lack of emotional engagement but
Gaghan's slightly disappointing film is still an often intriguing true
story made all the better by the work of its leading man.

3 pot bellies out of 5
