
I must admit, the trailers didn't have me convinced - and after the
sour taste 'Jack the Giant Slayer' left in my mouth, I was sceptic. I
really dug Matthew Vaughn's approach with 'First Class' (who had a
tough task rebooting the franchise after the lacklustre 'Last Stand'
and the generic, dull 'X-Men Origins: Wolverine') and I wouldn't have
minded him returning at all. But as it turns out, Bryan Singer (yes, I
dare speak his name) still has a few tricks up his sleeve. For its
sheer scale and epic storytelling alone, 'Days of Future Past' is
fantastic.

It's a shame there's so much controversy surrounding this film, but I
guess whoever chooses to deprive himself willingly of such a pleasure
must be fully aware that he does so at his own expense. Because this is
the kind of film that made me fall in love with movies in the first
place.

Yet (despite my 10-star review), it's not perfect. And it's not 'The
Usual Suspects' with mutants - how could it be; this is simply not that
kind of film. But I have to say that pretty much my only gripe with
this movie is that it has too many characters and that some of them
don't get enough screen time (or actually, there's not too many
characters: there's just too many great actors playing those characters
 but then again, that's half of the fun). Of all the X-men films, this
has the most complex plot  and also the most interesting. Different
time-lines are tricky to do and can be rather hard to follow, but
thanks to a (very!) clever script with a great part for Logan, we never
get lost. And that's the best news: sorely missed in the last
instalment (except for a hilarious cameo), the franchise has Hugh
Jackman back. And of him at least we do get to see a lot, since he
really leads us through this film (giving his best Wolverine
performance yet along the way). If Logan can be called the heart of the
X-men, then Charles Xavier must be the mind while Magneto and Mystique
provide the - slightly twisted - soul, and seeing them all together
again brought a broad, stupid grin to my face (which only got broader
whenever Quicksilver appeared on screen - for reasons you will have to
find out for yourselves). 

What really sets the X-men films apart from the ever more derivative
comic-book adaptations  at least as far as I'm concerned  is that I
always genuinely cared for the characters, and 'Days of Future Past' is
no exception. I love loud, spectacular action movies as much as the
next guy, but if I don't get to care for the protagonists  what's the
point? The reason I gave this 10 stars, and what is so exceptional
these days, is that what we get here is a complex, smart Fantasy/Sci-Fi
thrill-ride that respects its origins as much as it embraces the
future, while never - ever - forgetting that its first job is to
entertain the audience. For finding that perfect, rare balance between
character-driven human drama and no-holds-barred popcorn action
spectacle, 'Days of Future Past' deserves my 10-star rating (which is a
first for me: I've never given 10-stars to a comic-book movie).

So my verdict: If you like to get your minds blown by something with
true heart and soul, this massive 'mutant' of a film is upon you, and
all you have to do is give in to the X-citement. Enjoy the ride.

Favorite Films: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054200841/
<|_=00=_|>
With its mind-boggling premise and jaw-dropping cast, X-Men: Days Of
Future Past blasts into cinemas bearing the weight of great
expectations. Surely this mash-up of X-Men past and future has the
potential to be the best superhero blockbuster our world will ever see?
Well, yes and no.

To be strictly objective, Days Of Future Past can occasionally come off
as a little too earnest, its enormous cast of characters getting
somewhat lost in the grinding of its narrative gears. But, when it
works (which is most of the time), Days Of Future Past comes pretty
darn close to nerdvana  this is a smart, rich film that effectively
mines its source material (both the movies and Chris Claremont's
classic 1981 storyline in the comic books) and its incredible cast for
emotion, power and depth.

Flash forward to the bleakest of futures. X-Men we have known  led by
perennial frenemies Professor Charles Xavier (Patrick Stewart) and Erik
Lensherr/Magneto (Ian McKellen)  are being hunted mercilessly by a
horde of intelligent, death-mongering robots known as Sentinels. With
little hope for survival, the desperate X-Men decide to send Wolverine
(Hugh Jackman) back in time to the 1970s. There, he must find the
younger Charles (James McAvoy) and Erik (Michael Fassbender)  several
years estranged after the traumatic events of X-Men: First Class  and
get them to change the future before it can happen.

Sounds simple enough? Not really. Days Of Future Past frequently
threatens to fall foul of its complicated puzzle-box of a narrative,
one that involves time travel, quantum physics and a swirling mess of
characters, action and motivations. There's Dr. Bolivar Trask (Peter
Dinklage), creator of the Sentinel programme, whose assassination in
the past by Charles' pseudo-sister Raven (Jennifer Lawrence) brings
about the dystopia of the future. There are prison breaks, astral
projections, and several grisly mutant deaths. Truthfully, this
incredibly ambitious mix of character, plot and spectacle could very
easily go horribly wrong.

What's so impressive about director Bryan Singer's return to the
franchise is how well he weaves all the disparate threads of his
narrative together. This is emphatically not the Singer who gave us
mediocre misfires like Superman Returns and Jack The Giant Slayer.
Rather, this is the work of the Singer who made his mark with films
like X1, X2 and The Usual Suspects, all of which featured a masterful
blend of wit and wisdom, character and story.

In Days Of Future Past, Singer skilfully plays on the schism that
opened up between Erik and Charles at the end of First Class to add
welcome depths of emotion to the high stakes already in play. The deep,
difficult relationship between the two men has always been the fulcrum
of the series, and Singer allows it to breathe and grow. With the help
of McAvoy and Fassbender (not to mention Stewart and McKellen), some of
the best actors in the business, the director makes it possible to
believe that resentment can give way to forgiveness, and vice versa,
often in the blink of an eye. McAvoy, in particular, gives a
shudderingly good performance as a man called upon to help others when
he's lost his own way.

With such an enormous revolving cast of characters, Singer even manages
to give many  though not all  of them their hearts and souls. (Alas,
Storm/Ororo, we will never know ye!) Thrust into the unlikely role of
mentor to the broken, heartsore Charles, Wolverine must find a
different sort of strength and ingenuity within himself. Jackman plays
the role beautifully, anchoring the two timelines with charm and
gravitas. Though still something of an awkward fit for her part,
Lawrence, too, plays Raven's dilemma very well, as she wavers between
Charles' offer of hope and Erik's often bloody single-mindedness.

But Days Of Future Past doesn't just mire itself in the toss and tumble
of its characters' emotional journeys. Singer throws in a few
crackerjack action sequences, opening the film with a heart-stopping
massacre that very effectively underscores the dire threat posed by the
Sentinels of the future. Crucially, Singer also finds the time and
space within the darkest shadows of his story to have a little fun,
judiciously tossing quips and sight gags into the mix  particularly in
a tour de force prison break sequence, in which the preternaturally
speedy Pietro Maximoff (Evan Peters), better known to comic aficionados
as Quicksilver, literally runs away with the entire show.

Make no mistake about it, this is a behemoth of a film that won't go
down well with everybody. Newbies will almost certainly find themselves
lost, bewildered, and perhaps even bored. Singer's tale sprawls in so
many directions that, if you're not at least marginally invested in the
characters, it could prove to be a trying experience.

But, for everyone else, ranging from casual fans to enthusiasts and
obsessives, Singer and screenwriter Simon Kinberg have crafted
something truly remarkable. Steeped in history and lore, both of the
cinematic and comic-book variety, Days Of Future Past feels like a dark
love letter to the spirit of that original band of mutants and the
message of hope, tolerance and humanity that has always accompanied
their attempts to find their place on Earth.

Most remarkably of all, Days Of Future Past practically radiates a
bravery and freshness that you'd never expect from the seventh film in
a blockbuster franchise. Instead of playing it safe and sound, Days Of
Future Past mashes up past, present and future, sweeping up a lot of
what has been taken for granted in the X-Men cinematic universe and,
well, chucking it out of the proverbial window. The ending of this film
truly opens up an intriguing plethora of narrative possibilities that
stretch in any and all directions. On the strength of this outing,
that's something to be anticipated, rather than feared.
<|_=00=_|>
I was so intrigued about this movie. I had a terrible feeling of
disappointment because First Class was absolutely fine and riveting.
That one was even better than X-Men 2 (the last one directed by Brian
Singer before this). So I tried to went to see this with low
expectation. And what a wonderful entertainment and surprising
thoughtful story I found here. Days Of Future Past is the best X-men
movie so far for two main reasons:

Fans of the original trilogy and First Class will definitely enjoy this
one thanking its nostalgia and its perfect and well balanced mix
between the original characters and the new ones (with just a few ones
who maybe deserved more credit, but is not at all a problem for the
movie). & This movie delivers a surprising top notch entertaining with
a potent story and some good twists that help to live up expectations
mixed with terrific special effects and cinematography. 3-D is very
cool here.

The actors are fantastic. Fassbender and McAvoy still delivering
amazing performances meanwhile Stewart and Mckellen give their
reflections in the same excellent way that in the trilogy. Hugh Jackman
finally finds his character as a true important one in comparison with
the last movies. Wolverine/Logan finally has a proper treatment in this
movie that will help anyone who could be annoyed with his solo
adventures to love him again. They are the five main stars of the story
with the inclusion of a spectacular and skillful Mystique (impressive
Jennifer Lawrence who steals almost every scene of hers) who is
undoubtedly the sixth one. The other actors made good performances and
make possible the transitions of the story until the amazing finale.

It has been so many comparisons with The Avengers. Let me tell you
something with all my respect. I found this one truly better. X-Men:
Days of Future Past will please the fans and moviegoers and will inject
fresh blood and joy to the franchise. This is a terrific time at the
movies. Don't miss the opportunity to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
2014 has proved to be a successful year so far for Marvel with 'Captain
America: The Winter Soldier' and the most recent 'X-Men: Days of Future
Past'. Bryan Singer returns for the most recent X-Men after being
absent for the past four films, and what a return he has made. 'Days of
Future Past' is truly an impressive and spectacular instalment in both
the 'X- Men' franchise and the entire Marvel Cinematic Universe,
combining the casts from both the original trilogy and the prequel
allowing the audience to view the 'X-Men' in the past, present and
future. The action scenes are intense and spectacularly choreographed
with some fantastic heroes and foes fighting both against and alongside
each other. As a personal opinion, 'Days of Future Past' is the best
film to have graced the Marvel film franchise and one of the greatest
superhero films of all-time. A visually stunning and exhilarating flick
that combines the best elements of the series to create a fantastic and
entertaining film.
<|_=00=_|>
OMG!!! This movie cannot be simply described in words. If you loved X
men first class then this movie is a treat for you. This is a movie
even non-x men fans will enjoy. Go see this movie guys. Your mind will
be blown. I've already seen this movie and looking forward to see it
again. 

Hugh Jackman does the best wolverine ever. He became the wolverine i
wanted to see on screen for ages. The interesting chemistry between
James McAvoy and Michael Fassbender is more enjoyable than ever. But
jennifer lawrence and Evan Peters at Quicksilver steal the movie.
Quicksilver may not look so cool but he is the coolest guy in the whole
movie. 

Believe me, this movie is worth your bucks. Moreover there are a bunch
of new x men characters introduced in the movie which make it more
enjoyable.Bryan Singer has done complete justice to this movie. And
there is one scene just halfway through the movie which is worth
watching fifty times. I am thoroughly excited to see the next entry
entry in series which is being called Apocalypse.

The only shortcoming in the movie is the runtime which feels a little
less being only 130 mins. Rest of the movie is a jigsaw which fits
together in a wondrous puzzle.

So you must go to see this movie. Every element is in a balanced form.
Even the soundtrack is fitting. 

Happy watching !!!!
<|_=00=_|>
X-Men: Days Of Future Past' serves as a sequel to both 'X-Men: First
Class' (which is excellent) and 'X-Men: The Last Stand' (which is
pretty bad). Now, I used to be a pretty big X-Men fan a few years ago,
but after the disappointments of 'X-Men: The Last Stand' and 'X-Men
Origins: Wolverine', I kind of just stopped caring about the franchise,
even though the subsequent two movies were actually very good (the
aforementioned 'X-Men: First Class' and then 'The Wolverine'). That
being said, I was still looking forward to 'Days Of Future Past', what
with it being the return of the old 'X-Men' crew, and I was also
moderately familiar with the 'Days Of Future Past' comic. I was just
expecting it to be good though, but it turns out not only is 'Days Of
Future Past' the best X-Men movie yet, it's also one of the best
comic-book movies ever made.

In 'Days Of Future Past', the X-Men of the future are facing extinction
due to the sentinels which threaten to wipe them all out. They send
Wolverine back in time to 1973 where he must recruit Professor X,
Magneto and Mystique in order to change the course of history so that
the X-Men may survive.

First things first, this is a time travel movie, and time travel movies
normally either go very well or very badly. 'Days Of Future Past' marks
an occasion where it goes very well, as the time travel logic in this
movie is very well thought out and makes perfect sense, I can't pick
any holes in it. This movie even manages to validate 'X-Men: The Last
Stand' and 'X-Men Origins: Wolverine', which is something that I
thought could never be done. It even feels weird just saying that,
because righting the wrongs that those movies made is a huge,
monumental task, yet this movie pulls it off perfectly.

For a movie that's crowded with so many characters, it's surprising
that all of the characters included feel meaningful and aren't
shoehorned in. We have Hugh Jackman returning as Wolverine, and there's
not much to say about him that hasn't already been said. He is
Wolverine, the role is made for him and he absolutely owns it. James
McAvoy and Michael Fassbender are incredible as Charles Xavier and Erik
Lensherr respectively, their characters have an amazing relationship
and the two of them are just phenomenal at pulling it off. We also have
the future X-Men cast with the like of Patrick Stewart, Ian McKellan
and Ellen Page, and while they have a lot less screen time they're
still great. I was surprised at how prominent a role Jennifer Lawrence
had as Mystique, over the past few months I've had a growing dislike
towards Jennifer Lawrence but I can't deny that she is great in this
role. Then we have all of the new characters, like Bolivar Trask (Peter
Dinklage), Bishop (Omar Sy) and Blink (Bingbing Fan), all of whom are
great. But there is one new character who is greater than all, and that
character is Quicksilver.

Quicksilver in this movie is perfect. In fact, it's worth seeing this
movie just for him. He doesn't have a huge amount of screen time and it
comes fairly early on in the movie, but he is the best part of this
film by far. There is one particular sequence with him in a kitchen,
and it is jaw-droppingly beautiful. The visuals in the scene are
gorgeous, the music is perfect, and it's both hilarious and stunning.
The way that Quicksilver's super speed effect has been done is amazing.
Some people thought the costume looked goofy, but I think it works
perfectly well considering the time period and the personality of the
character. I've been a big fan of Evan Peters for a while, and he is
great in the role, he is very entertaining and has a great screen
presence. I never thought I'd be saying this, but I doubt Marvel will
be able to produce a better Quicksilver in 'Avengers: Age Of Ultron'
than the one that's on display here.

But you know what I think all this great quality comes down to? Bryan
Singer. I'm pretty sure Bryan Singer is just the perfect X-Men
director. Even though up until now I thought 'X-Men: First Class' was
the best of the X-Men franchise, it didn't really feel like the X-Men
in the way that 'X-Men' and 'X2′ did. 'Days Of Future Past' nails that
X-Men dynamic while still being an exceptionally good movie. Part of
that X-Men dynamic comes from John Ottman's amazing score, as it's so
good to finally hear his X-Men theme again.The action scenes are
incredible, especially the opening one which uses some of the new
mutant powers phenomenally, especially Blink's. The movie is very well
paced, I never grew bored and I didn't want it to end.

'Days Of Future Past' also surprisingly has a lot of very funny humour
in it, but it's not humour that's just forced in for the sake of it, it
all feel natural and within the confines of these characters. This film
nails the comic book movie aspect; it has a plot which is clearly very
serious yet it is still silly enough to remain a comic book film,
unlike movies like 'Man Of Steel' and 'The Dark Knight' which go so
dark that they just completely ditch the comic book aspect. There are
also a few nice references that fans of the comics will get, which is
just a small example of the great fan service this movie does for
readers of the 'X-Men' comics.

'Days Of Future Past' made me remember why I was such a big X-Men fan.
It rekindled my love for the characters and story lines, and like I
said above, it's one of the best comic book movies ever made.
<|_=00=_|>
Days of Future Past continues the work of X2 as genre-defining. I have
to classify it as a work of art/comic book pulp fiction. The
characters, effects, and story are outstanding. Everything in this
movie is exceedingly better in the sequel then even the first two films
and First Class. Like X2, the acting is superb and the dialogue is
rich. Every character feels believable. No cartoonish villains, every
side of the issue is presented by people who believe they are the ones
who are in the right and the underlying message of tolerance and
bigotry only add to the depth of this film. What's better then its
predecessor X3 in every way. It restores the sense of epic adventure
and grand-scale storytelling that's been absent from far too many of
most alleged blockbusters.

This film is far more sophisticated and has a better story than any
X-Men movie to date. Here, the characters previously introduced but
under used are utilized in a comprehensive and cohesive manner, and the
newly introduced characters are blended in seamlessly with the story.
The music is very good as is the special effects. The budget clearly
hit the screen fully and there are truly some amazing sequences to
behold. The cast-selection is still perfect.

Overall, this is one of the best genre films of all-time.
<|_=00=_|>
As a well known director one says, to make a great movie, you have to
(as a director) believe your movie is the best ever made. In today's
blockbuster standards, we do not see that at all. What I see when I
watch a Marvel/Disney movie (just for the example), I feel as a
spectator that directors want to make an entertainment movie, with an
absolutely needs of huge action and explosion scenes, with a crescendo
structure ending with a KABOOM (what an illustration^^). That's great,
that make good blockbusters  but not great. I had high expectations
with this movie, and yet I am not an X-Men fan and Bryan singer
disappointed me a lot of times - but the trailer gave me chills and as
French, I really wanted to see Omar Sy in a super-production (stupid
but true). 

Anyway, after seeing it, with 2500 X-Men fan in Paris, I was divided.
In fact, I expected something else entirely. There is some plot holes,
monotonous parts However, after thought a lot about it, I have to say
that is a masterpiece in super heroes' movies. Why? Because it is very
different from what we see today, we are not waiting for a finale with
explosions, characters just keep moving so the finale do not overdo it
but is still very impressive visually. Plus, this movie is very human
paradoxically: it speaks about usual mutants themes, but the very point
of the movie is can we change, whether it be the past or our vision of
the present. The intelligence of the movie is not to focus on changing
the past but on writing the present. 

But the most important thing that makes this movie great is that Bryan
Singer loves this franchise and more than making a great blockbuster,
he wanted to make a great movie relying on the characters. He was
convinced of making the best movie ever and even if it is not the case,
I felt it, so despite all is defaults, X-MEN DAYS OF THE FUTURE PAST is
a great movie, maybe, one of the best super-hero movies ever made. 

I advise you to stay till the end of the credits, the scene is just
awesome.
<|_=00=_|>
The Parisian premiere was yesterday and therefore, I actually did see
the movie and let me tell you this: all the waiting and fuss around
this movie is well worth it and well deserved. It is a great movie,
easily relatable in many ways.

I won't say a word about the acting. When you have established actors
such as McAvoy  who repeatedly stole the screen with his
heart-clenching performance  and Fassbender, along with their older
'counterparts'  McKellen and Stewart  you are in for a treat when it
comes to the acting performance itself. No surprise there.

This movie is a great movie in the sense that it finds its source in
the very core of humanity's struggles, and shows that Xmen's themes 
much like Marvel's latest movies  are still very relevant in the world
today. You will see that yourself.

The movie is action packed. There is no irrelevant scenes  I tend to
judge movies by the ratio of irrelevant scenes per minute in it  and
there is no break between action scenes and more emotional, storyline
scenes. You won't be bored. 

But along with the action, and the acting, there is also the usual dose
of humor found in most Marvel movies, without being out of place and
without cutting the pace of the movie in itself. There, Hugh Jackman
will provide you with a few laughs, or at least, will bring a smile to
your face.

The cinematography in itself was excellent. Excellent use of the 3D.
Great camera work  at some point, you will be rather amazed by the use
of slow mo and 3D.

So, why not 10 out of 10 then? Because of the score. If the soundtrack
was good, it didn't match what I got used to with the recent Marvel
movies. Good score but not as good as I expected it to be. Maybe it was
because we were all more focused on the fast-paced action scenes and
the storyline in itself rather than whatever was playing behind. I
might need to go back and watch it again once it's out for general
public to really appreciate the little details that I might have missed
in a cinema filled with excited fans.

But over all, it was an excellent, entertaining and relevant Xmen
movie. A good movie. A great Xmen movie. Full of Easter eggs for more
hardcore fans as well. The waiting was worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
Right now, I'm still trying really hard to find out one bad thing from
the X-Men movie I've just seen: 

The characters maybe ? No: every single character is perfectly
represented,interpreted (in particularly with a stunning James McAvoy
and an impressive Michael Fassbender) and useful to the story. Maybe
the plot then ? No: you'll get easily into it, because it is very well
written for the screen, meaning you will be transported as Bryan Singer
seems to know perfectly how to put in place a very cinematic puzzle.
Emotions ? You will get some, as long as you loved the original X-Men
characters. The soundtrack ? It is spotless and superbly fitting.
Visual Effects ? Always there when we want them to be, and not when it
is unnecessary. Action scenes ? You'll be amazed, thrilled and
captivated when you will realize that every single scene has a purpose,
whether it has some action or simple emotions and character's
development.

All these qualities put together are forming a very classical but
excellent & accomplished movie, completed by a skilled sense of
cinematic continuity that we didn't have since Singer left the
franchise (at least until X-Men First Class). In other words, you
should not be afraid to see this movie, because if you don't want to be
disappointed, I can tell : you won't be. 

But is the future of this X-Men movie truly set ? This is something
you'll have to figure out by yourselves, and this until the very end of
the credits...
