
Jake and Michael have the most amazing on-screen chemistry that makes
the viewers believe they're truly best friends and police partners. The
way the script was written allowed David Ayer to elicit an incredible
range of emotion from the viewers. It's hilariously funny during car
scenes between Jake and Michael, playing on relatable awkward topics of
sex, dating, and other things best friends would joke about, yet
incredibly serious, showing just how intense and dangerous police
officers' jobs in South Central LA can be. The use of Jake's hand-held
camera gives a Paranormal Activity feeling (without the headache) that
adds to the "realness" of the film. I highly recommend this film and
challenge anyone to not be completely moved by the end of it.
<|_=00=_|>
When I actually sit down and think about it, there aren't many good
movies about your average, every day police officer. There are a couple
notable television series', like "Hill Street Blues" and the now dated
but oddly fascinating reality series "Cops", but on film, these guys
don't get a lot of luck. I guess everyone would rather see movies about
undercover officers or detectives. Well for anyone like me who's been
waiting for it, here it is. End Of Watch, an excellent take on the
genre. It may not be perfect, but it's unique and shows the day to day
life more effectively than most if any cop movies I've seen, and as
such I think it will one day be essential viewing for fans of the
genre.

In the film we meet Brian Taylor, an ex-marine working as a police
officer while he works his way through law school. He also just so
happens to be taking a class in filmmaking and is filming his
experiences to make a documentary for said class, and this is where we
get much of our view into the film from. Featured frequently in the
film is his partner Mike, often called Z. After stumbling upon a
drug-lord at a routine traffic stop, they quickly fall into trouble
with the cartel and have to fight their way through it while still
trying to figure out where it's all coming from.

The great thing about this mockumentary/found footage style isn't so
much the way it's able to present the action of being a cop
realistically (which it does but so do normally shot movies), but it
better gives us an understanding of what happens inbetween the action.
Being a fly on the wall in the various dull, inappropriate, and often
times hilarious conversations the two have when patrolling brings the
film a much needed dose of comic relief, but the kind that never feels
forced. It's all set up naturally. This really gives a chance for stars
Jake Gyllenhaal and Michael Pena to shine as well as they fit so
naturally into these characters, often sounding unscripted whether or
not they are. They play them as regular guys instead of complex
characters which may make them a little less compelling, but all the
more fun to watch.

The film also mixes in a variety of other video sources from the
dashboard cams of the police cruisers to security cameras. This really
benefits the style as a whole. 99% of the time, using the self-shot,
found footage for an entire film can come off as gimmicky and
unnecessary, but by using a variety of sources the director is able to
keep the realistic tone consistent while downplaying the gimmick idea
and instead choosing to use Brian's self shot footage and monologues to
the camera only when they prove most effective to the story.

Along the way the film is also interspersed with subplots of Brian
meeting his new girl Janet, played by Anna Kendrick who makes a
memorable impression despite her little screen time, as well as Z and
his wife having a baby. While I find it hard to really complain about
Anna Kendrick (she's just so damn cute! And she looked stunning on
stage introducing the film), these subplots, while important for
character development, are thrown in a little too randomly throughout
and mess with the overall flow of the film. It's not a huge complaint
as I've seen it done worse in other movies, but it could've been solved
with some tighter editing. But who knows, this was the premiere I saw,
studios still often tweak movies before wide-release.

Fortunately for writer/director David Ayer, this is really the only
complaint I have about the film. The entire movie is fairly well
written. I did find the dialogue of a lot of the street thugs to be
cliché and racially stereotypical, but the things Brian and Z say are
priceless throughout and help you deal with a lot of the more serious
scenes, and there are quite a few of them. For as entertaining and
light-hearted as it is at times, End Of Watch has many dark, brutally
violent, and emotionally impacting scenes that are not for the feint of
heart. They do ultimately seem necessary though as the film needs
action to keep it going, and to create the realistic document of day to
day police life it's trying to create, which does get pretty brutal
sometimes despite the mostly mundane times in between. The important
thing though is that the film is able to balance all of these moments
so well.

David Ayer has dedicated what seems to be his whole career to police
movies. Most are mediocre to bad (Street Kings), some are genre
classics (Training Day), but I think End Of Watch is by far his finest.
It easily has the most likable characters, and as such the most
emotional involvement for the audience, which thus creates the most
tension in the high risk, action scenes. It has the most believable
story of any of his movies, or most cop movies for that matter, and
lastly it just told in an interesting way. Neither the cop story, found
footage action or fly on the wall comedy genres are anything new, but
End of Watch takes old ideas and fits them together to make something
interesting.

In conclusion, it's tough to go wrong with End Of Watch if you're a fan
of the genre. Even if you're not particularly fond of cop movies, I'd
still recommend it. It's a highly entertaining, tension filled ride of
a movie. It may not be as deep as some other movies coming out now, but
it really brings you into another world well. It's well written, well
directed, well acted, and was well enjoyed by the whole crowd. Check it
out.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not hard to tell that David Ayer grew up on the mean streets of
South Central, Los Angeles. Training Day, The Fast and the Furious,
Dark Blue and S.W.A.T. all showcase his passion for writing screenplays
about these streets and the role that police officers play in them. His
two films as director (Harsh Times and Street Kings) showed that he
could also direct hard hitting dramas depicting the underbelly of the
L.A. and the police force. End Of Watch marks Ayer's second film as
both writer and director.

Jake Gyllenhaal and Michael Peña star as a two young officers in the
Los Angeles Police Department. Using the "home footage" format of
filmmaking, End Of Watch shows us the ups and downs of these two young
officers as they work, love and fight in the streets of Los Angeles.

In terms of subject matter this film doesn't cover anything really
different. Its about cops dealing with their issues at home and on the
job. This topic has been covered countless times but what makes End Of
Watch different  and better  then many of its predecessors is that it
holds realism as its number one priority. This is one of the most
realistic portrayals of police life ever put to celluloid. The day to
day lives of these two best friends are shown in a format that is both
convincing and horrifying. It doesn't flinch away when showing the
disturbing aspects of this high pressure career.

Using everyday video sources (chest mounted cameras, vehicle cameras,
P.O.V angels, aerial shots from police choppers) definitely gives the
film an unprecedented level of proximity to cops in the line of duty.
Unfortunately, this format doesn't always work. Some chaotic scenes
become a little bit confusing when the camera is constantly changing
from first person shots to third person angles. But for the most-part
it works well.

Gyllenhaal and Peña provide us with two highly believable characters
and their chemistry is palpable. Whether they're talking about the
women in their lives or having a friendly argument about racial
stereotypes, these two actors ensure that we stick with their
characters through every step of the way. Gyllenhaal continues to
solidify himself as one of the best actors around and Peña delivers one
of his best performances to date.

It's got a great script and a focused story that is handled confidently
and told well. David Ayer has crafted an intense, hard hitting drama
that benefits from the two excellent performances by the two leads.
<|_=00=_|>
If you want to be at the edge of your seat the entire movie you should
definitely watch this. I went to a screening a long time ago so the
scenes may have changed a bit and maybe made a bit easier on the viewer
but the version we saw was absolutely AMAZING movie. The story grips
you all along and drags you without giving you a moment to look away
from the screen. If you like intense movies like Crash, Stuck or Drive
then this is for you.

Everyone applauded after the movie finished at the screening. The story
is just so real and so intense that makes your hair stand straight.

The good thing is that from the first second you get into the movie
until the very end. Its a story of love and intense action combined
that is real not superficial. Its something that could be happening
right now in your neighborhood.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a real unique journey in drama. A mix of studio camera and
innovative character cameras interwoven with the story. Casting brought
two very strong actors together and their chemistry was right on
target. The plot was simple but the ingredient that put this film over
the top was realism and believability. Yes it is very raw and if I got
a dollar for every "F-bomb" I could by a home in Malibu for sure.
Realism is the main course and this film would not lose it's true
identity. I found what really put this movie in the must see category
is that ...One minute your laughing and the next you're crying. There
are very few films that can achieve this element with this level of
quality. This is, without a doubt, one of the very best films of the
year.
<|_=00=_|>
This is hands down the best cop movie i have ever seen, nothing
depicted here is new, gangs, money, drugs, torture, cops, death,
etc...it is the way that its depicted that makes it stand out, the last
time that these issues were well shown was in SHIELD. Jake gives his
best performance yet, he really does stand out all the way till the end
him and his partner play amazing cops. You really feel the intensity
and reality of thee life of a cop shown through Jake's recordings, its
just amazing how it all feels so real...you will not regret watching
this film if you can handle it that is... This movie will keep you
glued to the seat till the very end. End of watch was a great watch.
<|_=00=_|>
If I were to pitch you a movie about two police officers who are
partners on patrol in South Central Los Angeles, one of your first
inclinations might be "not another buddy copy comedy." While "End of
Watch" is often funny, the newest film from "Training Day" writer David
Ayer, is no comedy.

Ayer, who spent a lot of time in South Central, takes the found footage
approach to his latest film featuring the LAPD in the spirit of modern
trends and perhaps the show "Cops."

It's hard to tell if Ayer's exaggerating, but a lot of dangerous stuff
happens to Taylor (Jake Gyllenhaal) and Zavala (Michael Pena) despite
being beat cops. So much so that they get involved with the wrong
Mexican gang, and their attempts to go above and beyond to protect and
serve put them in the line of fire.

Gyllenhaal and Pena have incredible chemistry as two cops who are best
friends as well as partners. They epitomize the modern "bromance" in a
number of ways, joking around, giving each other a hard time, offering
love/dating advice with hyper-masculine sarcasm, etc. Ayer takes time
to show these men out of their blues frequently to humanize them in a
critical way. On the job, they are often cocky, proud and reckless,
pushing the line of appropriate police behavior and protocol. They jump
back and forth between making laudable, responsible choices and
borderline police brutality.

The portrait that this paints of law enforcement feels so much more
authentic than we're normally treated to in cop films and police
procedurals on television. They are heroes and good, honorable men, but
that doesn't make them beacons of morality. No matter how much you
believe in the quickly escalating plot of "End of Watch," there's no
disagreement to be had over the authenticity of the characters and the
environment they operate in. 

Although we do get independent "episodes" in which Taylor and Zavala
respond to calls and find more than they bargained for, there's a
through-line involving a powerful Mexican drug cartel and the gang that
enforces it. Ayer glamorizes these thugs a little bit, but it makes
them formidable villains in the story. As things come to a boil, the
realism of the film really unravels in favor of a more compelling,
heart-pounding finale.

Ayer takes certain liberties with the found footage style as well. The
premise involves Taylor filming everything for a school project or
something. He has a hand-held camera but also cameras positioned in the
squad car, and ones that clip onto their uniforms. The gangs also carry
cameras around to film their violent escapades. At times, however, we
can't tell who is supposed to be holding the camera  like when Taylor
starts making out with his girlfriend, Janet (Anna Kendrick). Neither
is holding the camera, so that's a bit strange.

Still, that filmmaking style does more good than harm to the film. Say
what you will about the found footage trend, but this is an appropriate
example that really works. The extra layer of realism and authenticity
that the technique gives to a film really goes miles in favor of "End
of Watch." 

Humor is an unexpected benefit of this film as well. Michael Pena has
failed to be funny in films including "Tower Heist" and "30 Minutes or
Less," but he succeeds in territory that blends it with the dramatic in
this very organic way. It would be impressive if most of the dialogue
in this film, at least between him and Gyllenhaal, weren't improvised
given how natural it flows. 

It sounds like a stretch to consider this one of the better acted films
of the year, but Gyllenhaal and Pena should've been considered for
awards contention. The nature of found footage detracts from what we
tend to associate with/look for in an Oscar-worthy performance. We
expect authenticity from found footage and only comment when it goes
poorly, not when it's done exceptionally well. Having seen enough films
made in the found footage style, no other two actors have done better
in this genre.

"End of Watch" offers an intense look at the life of L.A.'s finest and
a harrowing portrait of life in the barrios and gang-ridden parts of
L.A. Although exaggerated at crucial points, it shows what can happen
when officers try and step out of their clearance level. At the least,
it's one of the best films found footage has given us to date.

~Steven C

Thanks for reading! Visit moviemusereviews.com for more
<|_=00=_|>
End of Watch seems to be another film that uses the found-footage
style, but once again it's not a successful try. However, it still gets
what it wants by being a true to life buddy cop film with a ridiculous
amount of intensity. End of Watch looks pretty simple as a crime
thriller, but everything is actually brilliant. The crimes are grim and
the action is a load of thrills. But what really makes this film so
appealing is the chemistry between Jake Gyllenhaal and Michael Peña.
Their bromantic moments keeps the entire film so charming. The rest of
End of Watch is engaging and interestingly gripping.

The story is about the lives of the lead pair. As these police officers
patrol around the streets, they spend their time talking and joking
around until they see something going on. Jake Gyllenhaal and Michael
Peña brings it to life. Their chemistry is the magic of this film. When
it gets serious it becomes really intense, makes you wish both of them
are safe on their dangerous jobs. The common elements of cop movies are
explosions and stylish gunfights, but this film is all about tension
and momentum.

The found-footage style is as messy as what the recent found-footage
film, Chronicle, did. Which falls into being unnecessary. It sometimes
gets shots that aren't filmed on any hand-held cameras. The camera-work
is still well shot and serves a different experience, but it could have
been something like what action directors, Mark Neveldine and Brian
Taylor(strangely has the same name of the main character), do. Shaking
the camera ridiculously without calling it a found-footage film. If you
ignore the style, it would be cool. The quality of the film is being
realistic and there it succeeds. They left the impossibly cool police
movie stuff behind and instead make them simply scrutinize, arrest, and
watch the streets.

End of Watch doesn't have much of a concept but to depict the credible
lives of these hero cops. While the lead stars shine on their beautiful
down-to-earth bromance, there's a grim reality about to affect their
lives thus makes this an indeed so compelling film. Still, it could
have been a Crank like film than a found-footage. The crazy cam is a
great effect, but not the characters holding the camera. Aside from
that, it's a top notch thriller that is easy enough to enjoy. Worth a
ride and recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Unlike many of the current crop of macho cop dramas, End of Watch plays
mainly to the grit of the daily challenges of patrolling the mean
streets of South Central LA in the "Shootin' Newton" division. Unlike
the stunning LA Confidential, with a historical story line, End of
Watch is done in the cinema ver'ite' style - in a realistic real cops
on duty in the LA war zone frame. The casting in this movie is picture
perfect, with each actor giving in depth performances.The story line
brings the Mexican / US drug problem into crystal clarity. Initially,
the story fails to coalesce, and the video cam work is a bit disjointed
and over done at the outset, but once you settle in to cinematic
method, the film gets a hold on you. Definitely a movie for any law
enforcement aficionados collection.
<|_=00=_|>
The script is so well written, it almost hurts. Almost because it is
really just good! And I loved the fact, that it got recognized in
America too (at the Box office, it did open at Number 1). While I won't
go into the story, the casting of Jake and his partner couldn't have
been better. It feels like the guys know each other their whole life.
Their interactions with social media and "real" life feel ... well
real. Nothing in this movie feels like it is staged for entertainment
purposes nor does the dialogue sound fake.

I did write drama, but there is also quite a bit of action in this one.
The hand-held approach to some of the scenes does not take anything
away from them, it actually heightens the experience most of the time.
Of course as an Anna Kendrick fan, I would've loved to see more of her
in the movie, but it does belong to our two "heroes" and what they are
going through. It's nice to see a movie that keeps in touch with
current events, have the courage and the quality to bring that "cop"
experience on screen
