
The only reason I knew this movie existed is because I was looking up
what Eric Stonestreet had done aside from Modern Family, so I decided
to give this a shot. The premise of the movie is the best part about
it: Five guys have the keys to a secret loft where they can freely
cheat on their wives, but one day they find a dead girl on the bed and
have to figure out who did it. To this movie's credit, the first half
is engaging and curious. They develop some shady history between the
guys and show how the loft came to be, but as pieces of the puzzle
start coming together and the more answers we get, the more the movie
suffers. I mean I've seen botched premises before but The Loft takes it
to a new low.

The five leads in this movie do what they can. They are likable actors
and they have some moments of conviction here and there, but the script
is so horrendous it's astonishing that they can keep a straight face
delivering these lines. Wentworth Miller is the weak link, and I don't
know if it's his fault or his character just being really weird and
uncomfortable but that's another thing: you don't like any of these
characters. They're all despicable, cheating, lying, douchebags that
are only friends because they all have those sh*tty traits in common.
And I use the term "friends" loosely because these guys seem to hate
each other as much as the audience does. Half the time they're yelling
and arguing at each other, the other half they're just dull and
plodding along with the script. It's sad because you want to like these
guys but they really are just sociopathic dickheads. Honestly the only
one with a conscious is James Marsden's character but even then still
he's a deceiving slimeball. However the cokehead brother completely
embraces the psychosis angle and gives a very nice standout performance
considering the material he was given.

The women in this movie are horrendous. There is not one memorable
female character - they're all either stupid and married to these guys
or stupid and f*cking them behind their wives' backs. It's hard to care
about a movie where every character is totally unlikable. 

Like I said, the first half of the movie is very promising. The pacing
was appropriate, it was easy to follow what was going on, it gave you
time to become invested in the mystery, then all of a sudden things get
crazy. Like unbelievable, ridiculous, stupid levels of crazy. First of
all there are like six endings to the movie; it goes on for a good
10-20 more minutes than it should, and the worst part is that each
"ending" is worse than the last. They try over-explaining what happened
and it ends up getting so twisted and convoluted that it collapses onto
itself. At a point you just stop caring about who did what - you just
want the damn movie to end. The entire third act is a disaster in every
conceivable way.

This movie was watchable, mainly because of the cast, but the ending is
so frustrating I had to give it a low score. I really tried to like it,
it's just hard to care about a movie when you're just watching a bunch
of stupid people do stupid things. And the police interrogation scenes
were atrocious. 

If you don't care about plot and just want to see a bunch of good
looking people act like complete jerks for an hour and a half, you can
get a kick out of The Loft. If you want a thrilling murder mystery that
makes you think, stay far far away - The Loft does not deliver.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen the original movie 'Loft' by Erik Van Looy
(http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0926762/?ref_=fn_al_tt_1), I was hoping
for a fresh take. But a fresh take is obviously not why they hired the
same Van Looy to direct this version. This is essentially the same
movie, just without subtitles.

In short, the building blocks of 'The Loft' are a set of plot twists.
They are mostly silly, suffering from a few red herrings that hurt the
story's credibility, but it's still entertaining to watch them unfold.
Largely because the movie flows well for the most part, with only a few
dull moments in the first half.

Although I preferred the exterior design of the original loft, the
overall cinematography of 'The Loft' feels a little warmer and more
comfortable. Only a little though, because the characters in it are
stone cold. James Marsden is the warmest character in the frame, but
like everybody else he doesn't get enough to work with to make for a
convincing character that the audience can identify with. The
characters are The Loft's biggest flaw (as they were in the original),
which is especially disappointing since making you care about
characters has often been a strong and successful focus in Bart de
Pauw's earlier scripts. There are just too many of them, and as a
consequence most of the dialog in the back story scenes is expositional
and feels awkward. There's never an opportunity for development. The
characters are just there to lead you from one twist to the next.

The overall acting suffers as a result. Strangely I felt that Rhona
Mitra, with barely any screen time, delivers one of the better
performances, with obvious anger below her coldness, yet just enough
restrain. Wentworth Miller does what he does best. He doesn't seem to
care much, but still feels like a good fit, even with the little
information we get for his character. Matthias Schoenaerts' presence is
undeniable. But as a guy who seems to be on edge pretty much all the
time, his marriage seems plainly unlikely, and his past couldn't be
revealed more clumsily. Still, he's a welcome contrast to the otherwise
held back main cast. It's a pity that he was clearly suffering from
sickness or fatigue in a few scenes, where it's blatantly obvious how
much he had to strain his voice. It's arguably suiting his character,
but it's still distracting.

The concept of this story lends itself to a much darker movie, and this
just feels like a missed opportunity. I can't help but wonder how this
would've worked as a film noir. You have five characters that could
easily be despicable and instantly more interesting, and the women
couldn't be more fatale. Of course, film noir doesn't sell anymore, so
instead we get a bright and shiny thriller that doesn't thrill, that
keeps you guessing, but doesn't make you ask questions. It deals with
edgy themes, but it barely skims them and focuses on polish instead.

7/10. It's definitely an enjoyable watch, but only for people who're
into the whole whodunit thing. Not if you're looking for anything more.
It's successful at what it is and doesn't pretend to be anything else,
but I can't help but sense the potential for something more.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Loft" is a remake of a Belgian film, and focuses on five married
men who go in on a ritzy high rise loft for the purposes of pursuing
their affairs and sexual escapades. When a girl winds up dead in a pool
of blood in the loft, the five men panic as they attempt to unravel who
she is and where she came from.

Taking some cues from Hitchcock (and not exactly with a fraction of
Hitch's poise), "The Loft" is an overall entertaining film, but the
script at times is the equivalent of a cheap Rubik's cubeÂ— it looks
fine, it's a fun puzzle, I guess, but it's really just not that
impressive overall.

The film shifts between past and present, unraveling the narrative
through flashbacks which are sandwiched between the current dilemma of
the four men arguing in the loft over the corpse of the dead blonde.
The pacing is a bit choppy, and the transitions rather abrupt. James
Marsden and Wentworth Miller are among the film's greatest star power
here, but the cast overall is really underwhelming, and the
performances are at times borderline campy as the men play up their
roles as buffoonish plutocratic mattress hounds.

The finale cements my feelings of the film as an underwhelming thriller
that seems more suited for television than the silver screen, but I
still can't say it was totally not worth the time. In spite of the
hammy performances, the disjointed narrative, and the overall
sensibility of utter lifelessness that the film has, it is still by and
large an entertaining flick. Nearly impossible to take seriously, but
for entertainment's sake, it's passable. 5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised how good this film was. I usually figure out who done
its before the reveal but I didn't with this one. It can be a bit
confusing jumping around from past and present but that adds to the
mystery. Its a smart movie and we don't get those that often.
Performances are good- most actors seemed to be a bit out of their
typical roles. Wentworth Miller was very different from Prison Break
and its nice to see Karl Urban break away from SciFi/Fantasy
franchises. Eric Stonestreet was very different from his TV role and
James Mardsen showed the conflict of someone going against their norm.
Also, it was nice to have a movie this length- not so long its hard to
stand up when the film is done. Its a shame the studio didn't really
back it and do any advertising. I never saw a TV spot- just a preview.
They also kept pushing back the release date. Its a shame this one will
just probably fade into DVD obscurity because its good and
entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie started nicely,, with flipping between the moment of now in
the investigation room and the moment where they found the body in the
loft and the one year and between flashbacks .. Even though it had five
different stories it was actually easily understandable.

The Idea of the movie is fresh and new for Hollywood and the plot flows
smoothly in the first half an hour of the movie there are no much
puzzles to think about but who really between those five guys did it !!
until you start to think maybe it's one of the guys mistresses. then
you jump to accuse everyone who speaks Latin, then everyone becomes a
killer in your eyes :D . 

So to be fair the screenplay writing appears so tight and consistent ..
with just a couple of unexpected surprise in the end ;)

With the same director as the Belgian version of the movie Erik Van
Looy and pretty much the same writers i'v heard they kept it just as it
went in the original. Even though i kinda preferred to watch the
original movie because the originals always better but i mean who can
stand almost 2 hours of translated Dutch movie !! :P

As for the cast, the Leads whom i only know from TV they were all
engaging and well invested in their roles, Karl Urban, James Marsden,
Wentworth Miller and Eric Stonestreet and even the short appearances of
Matthias Schoenaerts who was actually in the original Belgian movie
"Loft (2008)".

Overall it went fine,, well at least let's say better than what i'v
read in some reviews .
<|_=00=_|>
From the opening moments of 'The Loft' you can guess pretty much
exactly what you're in for. A "whodunnit" mystery with plentiful
twists, where not everything is as it seems. Knowing that much doesn't
hurt a film at all. In fact it makes the next couple of hours something
to be very much looked forward to - or at least for me it does. You
could say the format of the genre is lacking in originality, but you
could rarely say two films are the same and anyone who says they saw
the ending coming is almost always lying or exaggerating a fleeting
suspicious they had. This is why I love mystery-thrillers.

'The Loft' is a fun watch - nothing more, nothing less. It achieves
exactly what it sets out to. The 5 lead actors were all pretty solid
and gave credible performances. I think I will always see Eric
Stonestreet as his brilliant character from 'Modern Family', so I
struggled a bit at first to take him seriously in his role here, but
he's good enough of an actor to get past that. The dialogue was tightly
written and every detail that could otherwise have been questioned was
covered well. The only fault I could find was the score sometimes
drowning out the dialogue which can be annoying in a film like this
where you are trying to catch every spoken detail. Altogether though a
fine movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The Loft is a murder mystery, directed by Erik Van Looy who also
happened to direct the original Belgium film (loft) 2008. This remake
follows the same story of five uncommitted husbands who struggle to
sustain a relationship and to keep it in their pants. They are
conveniently given access to a secret love dungeon where they can seek
their mistresses and cheat on their wives. Shortly after somebody is
"murdered" in the loft, the five begin to suspect each other and from
there on the over complex CSI episode arises. 

Ill start off praising the positives, since the film did have
potential. The cinematography is miraculous. The unique sense of
direction makes every shot look great. The script is somewhat lethargic
but thankfully the "majority" of the cast pull it off. Each character
was evenly distributed and explored, creating fairly interesting
protagonists and slight emotional attachment. The score raised tension
when necessary and kept me guessing on the edge of my seat. But after
the 100th twist, the suspense and fascination quickly dissolved. The
loft has simply out smarted itself, a simple, yet at times intriguing
plot desperately seeks for every twist and turn it can find and uses
them, I don't even think M. Night Shyamalan could've handled it. Things
started to drag and seem all over the place. It is one big puzzle with
one too many pieces. Overall a fun, entertaining sexual thriller.
Nothing more, nothing less.
<|_=00=_|>
The architect Vincent Stevens (Karl Urban); the psychiatrist Chris
Vanowen (James Marsden); the real estate agents Luke Seacord (Wentworth
Miller) and Marty Landry (Eric Stonestreet); and Chris' half-brother
Philip Trauner (Matthias Schoenaerts) are married and best friends.
Vincent proposes his friends to share a wonderful penthouse loft in a
brand new building designed by him to become their rendezvous instead
of using their credit cards for love affairs and one night stands in
hotels. When they discover the body of a beautiful woman cuffed on the
bed in the loft, they have argument to find who is the responsible and
secrets are disclosed affecting their friendship.

"The Loft" is an engaging thriller with a good story with many twists
despite of the flaws and the weak conclusion. It is not easy to write a
complex screenplay developing many characters with twists without plot
holes. The greatest one is how a high-standard building in the present
days does not have security cameras and guards to show that the alibis
are not consistent? Chris is a psychiatrist and does not identify that
Sarah Deakins is not dead? The conclusion is also unconvincing. My vote
is six.

Title (Brazil): "Prazeres Mortais" ("Deadly Pleasures")
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie while browsing Matthias Schoenaerts' profile from
"Far from the Madding Crowd" and decided to give a shot. It was a
disappointment. I wish he wouldn't have taken on the role. There is a
reason why it was released recently after finished several years
earlier. It's just not good.

It's a B level movie at best. All the actors and actresses look like
from those runoff audition agencies. The customs, setting, and make up
said the same. It is remade from the same Belgian movie which was a big
box hit that year. It is directed by the same director, Erik Van Looy.
I wonder why he did such a lesser work. The script is none- impressive
and raw. The sexual contents are somehow cheap and inarticulate. The
storyline is over-plotting. I think it would look much better if they
would put more effort into it. Good movies come from good scripts and
story lines. This one is short of both. Maybe that is why it couldn't
attract good actors and actresses.

There are no shortage of successes of remaking foreign movies into
Oscar winning masterpieces like "The girl with the dragon tattoo", "The
Departed" just named of few. I am afraid that Mr. Looy already missed
the biggest chance in his career.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the first review I've ever written on here, so I'm just gonna
be short and sweet, the movie is phenomenal. It's suspenseful and keeps
you guessing the whole time, really grabbed my attention, I'd recommend
for anyone who's into the genre. In a little more detail, the plot of
the movie is based around 5 guys sharing a loft where they can bring
their mistresses (which is refreshingly original, even though it's a
remake of a remake) and eventually end up involved in an investigation
that could land them all in jail. From the time I walked in I had
rather low expectations, however by the end the film had exceeded all
of my expectations, and went on to wow me. If you're looking to get
spend two hours trying to solve a case and getting lost all over the
place, then you'll enjoy this one.
