
THE FIFTH ESTATE is based on two books, both written by people who had
personal and legal disputes with WikiLeaks.

These are personally biased sources and are now outdated by three
years. They tell only one side of the story.

These authors had an interest in portraying Julian Assange as dishonest
or manipulative for competitive, personal and legal reasons.

It is hard to imagine how a film which aims to dramatize only their
version of events could genuinely aspire to being fair or accurate.

The film does not tell the story Julian Assange or WikiLeaks staff such
as Sarah Harrison, Joseph Farrell or Kristinn Hrafnsson would tell.
Hopefully, soon, their story too can be told.
<|_=00=_|>
As I walked into the theater with my wife, she asked me again what this
film was about. I said, its about Wikileaks. I told her about Assange
and the mission of Wikileaks. I had already had my own formed opinions
about Assange, but refrained from sharing it with her. I was curious to
see what her reaction was and what her opinion of Wikileaks and Assange
was after the film.

The film was not bad. It was sort of an attempt to make a Facebook
style film about Wikileaks and although it nowhere measured up to the
quality of "Social Network." Its attempt was commendable and
all-in-all, it was not a waste of the 18 Euros we spent to see it.

However, what really bothered me throughout the entire film was
Cumberbatch's portrayal of Assange. I could see he was trying very hard
to mimic Assange to the best of his ability, but I either don't think
he had it in him or he was purposely playing Assange a lot crazier than
he appears in real life. I have seen lots of interviews with Assange,
who in my mind, comes across a bit like a mixture between a politician
and professor. Cumberbatch, on the other hand, came across as a sort of
eccentric nut.

The next thing that bothered me is where the film decided to stop.
Basically, it skimmed over the current scandals, making Assange sound
like more of nut than Cumberbatch's portrayal. The last five minutes
especially sunk into me the feeling that the film unfairly portrayed
Assange.

And my suspicions were confirmed. I asked my wife what her opinion of
Assange was as a good or bad guy, and she seemed to indicate she was
leaning towards bad. The last few minutes of the film, basically sunk
that message in loud and clear.

My conclusion is, that, this film is a good example of the new way of
being critical. Pretend to be fair and at the last minute, throw up a
bunch of negative facts.

I believe that combining the positive portrayal of the U.S. state
department with the crazy portrayal of Assange, was neither fair nor
accurate. History will probably judge this film as just another
propaganda piece of the corrupt powers that be.

If I were to write this film, I think it would have been much more
interesting to concentrate on the incidents of human rights abuses
rather than on the Assange himself. It would have also had the positive
effect of encouraging, rather than discouraging whistle-blowers. This
film does not seem to inspire anything.

Assange was right about the film.
<|_=00=_|>
I've written about why this is ghastly dreck at much greater length on
CounterPunch, but I'll summarize here: If Walt Disney were alive today,
the notorious right-winger would be delighted at the latest volley his
namesake company has lobbed in the U.S. war on whistleblowers. 

Wikileaks has written at some length about the raging factual
inaccuracies in this 'docudrama', but the flick has more than Wikileaks
in its sights. The film's broad themes undergird the same sorts of
distortions that have been used to dirty up whistleblowers and
information freedom advocates who include Stratfor whistleblower Jeremy
Hammond, NSA whistleblower Edward Snowdon, the late, great tech
innovator and DemandProgress founder Aaron Swartz, and CIA
whistleblower John Kiriakou. Namely: uncensored primary source material
is bad, because dammit, how the heck can we control the information
stream and the spin in the face of those nasty primary source
materials?

Among its fantasy characters, TFE includes the racist stereotype of the
'good Arab' asset of State Department hacks -- a particularly appalling
fiction that reinforces the wholly bogus notion that Wikileaks' release
of State Department cables 'hurt our allies.' No, it didn't. To date,
the U.S. government has utterly failed to document a single instance of
'harm' coming to a single one of its on-the-ground thugs, informants,
collaborators or spies. 

I saw this at a free screening hosted by the Chicago ACLU. Good thing
their development director opened the event by announcing that they
hadn't yet seen the flick and the event should by no means be construed
as an endorsement of the film. Save your dough -- or better yet, check
out Wikileaks' new documentary, Mediastan, which rather nicely
documents the mainstream media's congenital unwillingness to speak
truth to power.
<|_=00=_|>
The Fifth Estate is a film that's bound to attract a considerable
amount of controversy and end up with a fairly divisive crowd, and
that's basically why you're witnessing the overwhelming negative
reception from critics. Ultimately, bias will sweep in and largely
contribute to your final thoughts on the film, essentially depending on
what side you're on. Admittedly, this picture paints a villainous image
for Julian Assange, especially as the plot progresses, and a plethora
of reviewers apparently took issue with that, including Mr. Julian
Assange himself. Well, there are also those critics that post their
extremely vague negative responses to the film that don't exactly
address a particular fault within the movie's content and definitely
produce a sense of shadiness in terms of what exactly drove them so
crazy over its material. 

Anyways, let's focus on my reaction to the feature in general with as
much honesty as possible. I won't lecture you on how much you should
hate the NSA and the government's surveillance activities nor should I
protest such anarchists' decisions. I'll judge the film as it should be
judged, but of course, the level of its accuracy should absolutely be
considered. Concentrating on the strengths at first, right off the bat,
it's quite obvious just how exceptional the lead performances from
Benedict Cumberbatch and Daniel Bruhl are, and as usual, Cumberbatch
carries that impressive volume of charisma with him where you simply
can't take your eyes off his mannerisms and speech (I believe I already
noted this in my Star Trek review); in short, his portrayal of Julian
Assange is terrifically veracious. Daniel Bruhl, coming off of his
memorable performance in Rush, makes his mark yet again, playing a foil
to Julian in a way. Furthermore, The Fifth Estate unquestionably works
as a full-fledged thriller with the several twists and turns
throughout. The story, itself, is compelling and though it's abundantly
filled with journalistic terminology and complicated concepts, you're
forced to dedicate twice the attention to the screen. 

On that note, The Fifth Estate suffers from a highly noticeable and
detrimental flaw: its messy execution. What fundamentally follows
persistently throughout the narrative are perplexing scenes that leave
the audience scratching their head- and not in a good way in case
you're asking. The movie's editing style and script will doubtlessly
leave you confused in numerous instances. While you're attempting to
understand how exactly a specific action or trade works, the film casts
you into another situation that leaves you baffled yet again, and this
really stems from- as previously mentioned- its wide array of
terminology and the fast pace with which it irresponsibly deals with
its explanation to the moviegoers. This is precisely why The Social
Network shone in its brilliance: it was perfectly comprehensible and
continued with remarkable execution- the pure opposite of The Fifth
Estate. By the time the story comes to a conclusion, you will have
likely properly sorted the film's ideas but to have a thriller work is
to avoid placing your interested crowd into a muddled and jumbled
predicament as it lessens the satisfaction and surprise that comes with
a thrilling experience. 

At the end of the day, The Fifth Estate is great in that it sparks a
mixed reaction and requires both extreme sides of the table to
continuously argue over the rightfulness or criminality of Wikileaks'
existence and the path that Julian Assange took to see it to success.
There are too many factors to just definitively point out if you should
or shouldn't view it. However, if you're not one for complicated, fast-
paced political thrillers, this probably won't be an enjoyable time at
the movies. Otherwise, there might be something here that'll get you
thinking about the whole debacle of our privacy vs. the so-called "evil
government."
<|_=00=_|>
I tend not to read reviews until after I've watched a film lest they
sway my opinion, but it wasn't hard to miss the nonchalance (that veers
towards damnation) with which The Fifth Estate has been received. Nor
that it plays just once per day, at 9pm, at my local Cineworld compared
to five screenings per day for Captain Phillips, eight for Ender's Game
and fourteen for Thor: The Dark World.

But Bill Condon's (Gods and Monsters, The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn)
film about Wikileaks founder and hero/pariah (delete according to your
political stance) Julian Assange really isn't that bad. Take that as
you will.

Not really a biopic, The Fifth Estate takes a similar approach to
Assange as The Social Network did with Mark Zuckerberg, looking more at
the product of the man than the man himself. It consumes 8 minutes more
of your time than The Social Network, feels twice as long, is far more
arduous and will require just a single viewing, compared to repeat
visits for the Facebook flick.

Trudging through the meeting of the ultimate whistleblower Assange
(Benedict Cumberbatch) and Daniel Berg (Daniel Brühl), the explosion of
Wikileaks in the public's perception, the shadowy deals with The
Guardian and the fall out from countless exposés about underhand
dealings from governments and corporations, The Fifth Estate spews out
a huge amount of information but never quite manages to get down to the
gritty truth.

It feels cluttered and more of a lecture than a movie and I'm not sure
I know a great deal more about Assange now than I did yesterday. Too
much has been shoehorned into its 128 minute running time but it still
only glances over some of the highest profile matters surrounding
Assange: the Bradley/Chelsea Manning revelations and the sexual
misconduct allegation against Assange that have led to his exile in the
Ecuadorian embassy in London.

Cumberbatch succeeds admirably in portraying Assange as an obsessive
with a serious case of egotism and a lack of social graces or personal
care. It's a fine performance and will be a revelation to those who
know Cumberbatch only from BBC's Sherlock or Star Trek Into Darkness.
He is eminently watchable and succeeds in making an unpleasant man
fascinating to watch. Assange wrote an open letter to Cumberbatch
hoping to dissuade him from portraying him on film in The Fifth Estate,
a "wretched" film, a work of fiction "based on a deceitful book", and
one imagines that, should a copy of the film reach him inside his
'prison' he'll be dismayed by the way he is portrayed. Perhaps he'll be
magnanimous to concede that, nevertheless, it is a fine performance
from Cumberbatch.

Many of the other prominent actors don't fare quite as well. Brühl
follows up his superb performance in Rush with a more downbeat
character that he never really sinks his teeth into. Like Brühl, Alicia
Vikander, Berg's love interest and just one of many thorns in Assange's
side, has little to play with and her performance is smothered by the
presence of Assange.

Bucking the trend, David Thewlis gives a pastiche of a Guardian
journalist, more given to flouncing noisily into meetings and huffing
in exasperation than acting. But Thewlis' performance is evened out by
able turns from the new Doctor Who, Peter Capaldi, Laura Linney and
Stanley Tucci, though with so many characters vying for screen time and
Condon battling to squeeze in as much information as possible alongside
some outdated 80s techniques (text across faces, anyone?), they, too
are lost in the mêlée.

The Fifth Estate isn't a great film and it may not be terribly truthful
(the jury's still out on that one) but, despite it's flaws, I still
enjoyed it. Once! And maybe truthful representations aren't important.
As Cumberbatch wrote in his response to Assange, "the film should
provoke debate and not consensus." 

And in that, at least, The Fifth Estate succeeds admirably.

For more reviews from The Squiss, subscribe to my blog and like the
Facebook page.
<|_=00=_|>
I know I'm in the minority, but I liked "The Fifth Estate." Others will
agree with me, though, that the best thing about it is Benedict
Cumberbatch, who does brilliant job as Julian Assange.

I come at this film from a slightly different point of view because I
still don't know what was so fabulous about "The Social Network." I
understand the comparisons due to the similar stories. People seemed to
find "The Social Network" incredibly compelling, but I guess it's a
generational thing - I just didn't.

I attended this film with a friend who had only a vague knowledge of
Wikileaks, and he absolutely loved it and found the "redaction" scenes
toward the end of the film tense and suspenseful, as I did.

I realize that some of the film may be fictional, and that Wikileaks is
a controversial subject. I can't pretend to know the truth. Cumberbatch
portrays Assange as an egomaniacal, protective, arrogant man who
refuses to compromise, even when information may hurt people. His right
hand, Daniel (Daniel Bruhl) begins to see that Assange's dictatorial
attitude and paranoia has gone too far and is actually in the long run
going to hurt what could have been an important organization.

What should we know, and when should we know it? Assange wants to
release unedited documents onto the World Wide Web. Yet in the
beginning of the film, he wants at all costs to protect sources. He
seems to forget that later on. That's all in the film, based on two
books that we're told are biased.

Still, The Fifth Estate raises some interesting questions and also
talks about the challenges we face now with news going out onto the
Internet. I think some transparency is healthy; I don't think banks
should help customers cheat the U.S. out of $30 billion in taxes; but I
don't believe military strategy should be leaked, and I believe that
sources should be protected. It seems like so much of what we hear
today, from politicians and celebrities and publicists is "spin." And
most of us are aware that there's more than they're telling us.

As far as the acting, Laura Linney and Stanley Tucci are marvelous in
small roles; Cumberbatch gets excellent support from Bruhl, Alicia
Vikander, Jamie Blackley, and the rest of the cast.

In short, Cumberbatch's performance should be seen and appreciated. I
think this film has gotten a bad rap. It's certainly not an awful film.
<|_=00=_|>
You know what they say  you wait for a bus and then two come along at
once. After causing a media frenzy in recent years, Julian Assange and
his whistleblowing website WikiLeaks have found their way to the big
screen this year, twice. Earlier in the year, the documentary
'WikiLeaks: We Steal Secrets' was released to highly positive reviews
and a lengthy complaint from Assange himself. Now, we have Bill
Condon's dramatic (and according to some, heavily fictionalised)
account of the history of the now-infamous website and its founder.
Similarly to aforementioned documentary, 'The Fifth Estate' has notably
been objected by Assange, who wrote to lead actor Benedict Cumberbatch
outlining why he shouldn't take the role or have any part in the film.
Despite this, Cumberbatch didn't, instead delivering an excellent and
nuanced performance that never feels like an impersonation. On the
flipside, Cumberbatch is far-and-away the best thing in the film.

That's not to imply that 'The Fifth Estate' is a bad film by any means,
it's just that it's regularly flat and occasionally boring. Many have
compared it to David Fincher's 2010 masterpiece 'The Social Network'
and the similarities do exist (the foundation of a revolutionary
website involving two different people who eventually fall out over
said site), but the difference is that this film lacks the spark and
most importantly, the compelling dialogue of the latter. When making a
film such as this centred on dialogue, it is imperative to make the
talk as gripping as possible, but despite trying their best, the
conversations here are only sporadically attention-grabbing.
Additionally, the sequences set inside the 'cyberspace' feel
out-of-place and don't work at all.

The film has good intentions and attempts to raise some interesting
questions, as it successfully manages not to show favour to any side of
the WikiLeaks argument, even going so as far as questioning the film
itself, as we see Cumberbatch's Assange dismissing it in an interview.
As well as Cumberbatch, Daniel Brühl is very good as Assange's partner
Daniel Domscheit-Berg, while David Thewlis is as usual, a pleasure to
watch, here playing the best on screen Guardian journalist since Paddy
Considine in 'The Bourne Ultimatum'. Overall though, the film is not as
good as its star  it's a plodding and unremarkable account of one of
the biggest new stories in recent history.
<|_=00=_|>
In July 2010, the website WikiLeaks released over 90,000 secret United
States military reports about the war going on in Afghanistan. This was
one of the largest leaks in United States history, on par with the
Watergate scandal during the 1970s under President Nixon. One man was
responsible - Julian Assange. The Fifth Estate, partially based on a
book written by Assange's former partner, Daniel Berg, titled: Inside
WikiLeaks: My Time with Julian Assange at the World's Most Dangerous
Website, details the history of WikiLeaks from when Berg and Assange
first met back in 2007, to when the 90,000+ documents were released.

For those who don't know, WikiLeaks was a whistleblower organization -
a website where confidential documents were posted online, and secrets
were revealed. Portrayed by Benedict Cumberbatch, Julian Assange took
it upon himself to decide that there should be no secrets from the
people, and that he exposed confidential files for the greater good.
Assange is made out to be a Robin Hood-like person, except instead of
stealing the king's riches for the poor, he is exposing secrets the
world does not necessarily need to know.

Assange and Berg, played by Daniel Brühl, meet at a computer
convention, where the two became friends and Assange let Berg in on his
website. Working to release files, Assange and Berg quickly grew
WikiLeaks into a household name. Oscar Wilde once said: "Man is least
himself when he talks in his own person. Give him a mask, and he will
tell you the truth." Assange recites this to Berg, stating that
WikiLeaks' mission is to protect the identity of whistleblowers. He
says that he spent years working on a system that guarantees anonymity
for their sources, and Berg believes him. Things, believe it or not, go
smoothly, until two of Assange's sources are gunned down, causing a
rift between him and Berg, and spelling trouble for WikiLeaks.

The motto of WikiLeaks was: "Courage is Contagious." Sadly, the movie
is not contagious. The movie is, in fact, dull and uninvesting. I found
myself often losing focus, and even struggling to not walk out of the
theater. Even though it is based on actual events, the plot of the
movie is boring and uninteresting. Often times, the movie is quite
confusing, jumping from one leak, to personal troubles in Berg's life,
to another leak, to problems in the United States government, and then
back to another leak. It is very difficult to invest in these
characters, as there is so much jumping around it is hard to keep track
of who is doing what. One of the few interesting aspects of the movie
was the fact that the majority of it was focused on Daniel Berg, NOT
Julian Assange, which makes sense seeing as the movie was based on the
book by Berg, however this results in viewers jumping right into an
already established WikiLeaks, instead of seeing it being built from
the ground up.

With that being said, Benedict Cumberbatch's portrayal of Julian
Assange is mediocre at best. In the film, Cumberbatch's Assange does
not come off as a person who is passionate about his cause, which is a
problem because it was established that Assange had set out to change
the world. Instead, the character comes off as a man who is working at
a simple nine-to-five job, uninterested in what he is doing. A positive
that comes out of Cumberbatch's performance is that the character
development from beginning to end is clear and noticeable, while Daniel
Brühl's performance is lackluster - there is zero indication of
character development in Berg, even though the story makes it clear
that there should be.

Directed by Bill Condon, The Fifth Estate does not do WikiLeaks
justice. For a website that made such an impact on the world as it did,
it at least deserves a movie that does something similar. Instead we
are given a mediocre movie that, in my opinion, is not worth seeing.

Rating: 3 of 10 Check out more of our reviews at:
brickmoviereviews.wordpress.com !
<|_=00=_|>
Even to the way Assange ties his scarf this film is complete
make-believe, and is probably best given a wide berth for those
interested in what really happened regarding the leaked US embassy
cables.

I've just watched Mediastan, which is a road movie recounting the
distribution of the cables across central Asia and the obstacles
encountered: geographical, political, security, and media. It's a
riveting and at times amusing journey - and an education. For serious
insights into how the global media world currently operates, I'd
wholeheartedly recommend it.

So, honestly, forget The Fifth Estate, and the rest of the Hollywood
hype; Mediastan is the real story of Cablegate and Operation Cable Run.
<|_=00=_|>
The Fifth Estate

Plot In his quest to make information free for everyone whistle blower
Julian Assange takes on the kingpins of the world by raging a
sophisticated ,new age war that threatens to shake the foundations of
diplomacy and overthrow established regimes .It tells the story behind
the rise and fall of wiki leaks and of its creator ;Julian Assange who
some people call a visionary and some a threat to national security
.The story revolves around the complex character of Assange and
explores his relationship with Daniel Berg ,one of the spokespersons
for Wikileaks.

Script The Fifth estate is loosely based on the book "Inside WikiLeaks"
by Daniel berg and uses real life examples as key points to narrate the
story. The script is to the point, taut and close to reality but it
never becomes more than that. It feels like a monotonous narration of
the book with no elements of a thriller that it promised to be. If the
makers wanted a boring narration of the events that are already
available online why did make all the efforts to make a movie and waste
a talent like Mr Cumberbatch?

The script is written to explore the association of Assange and Berg
but fails to do so and only creates a one dimensional sketch of a
Multidimensional relationship. Other parts of the movie are outwardly
boring and dimensionless which makes it a Prime time News at max when
the viewers expected a thrilling and insightful leak into the life of
one of the most Controversial public figures of the 21st Century.

Direction Its Difficult to understand why Bill Condon was chosen as a
director for such a controversial public figure (Mr Condon is the
director of Twilight :Breaking Dawn 1 and 2, Now you get it
,right?).His lack of control of the story and the essence of Julian
Assange's character is visible throughout the 128 minutes , his lack of
understanding of the character is the prime reason why this movie fails
to hit the right chords.

Performances Benedict Cumberbatch is the reason why you should watch
this movie is watchable throughout its runtime.The expression, body
language ,non- verbal cues are exactly like Julian Assanges.

Though Assange refused to meet when benedict requested him so that he
could understand him better ,citing faults in the script which he
disapproved, still he managed to bring such a complex character to life
on screen with panache .He is one of the most exemplary actors of this
modern world of cinema.

Final Word The only reason why you may want to watch the movie is
Benedict Cumberbatch. Except for him the movie is a dull replay of
events we already know off, this isn't the movie that Julian Assange
deserves. If You are interested to know about Mr Assange I suggest you
watch "We Steal Secrets" by Alex Gibney, that is at least honest in
delivering what it promises.
