
... because by the time the credits roll and you start to breathe
normally again, you will suddenly realize that this was not a horror
film as such, this was a re-enactment of events that actually happened,
with real victims and real perpetrators and real well-meaning third
parties covering up the whole thing as fast as the body count kept
piling up.

And then you will once again have difficulty catching your breath.

As a film it is superb. McCarthy who did double duty as writer and
director deserves acknowledgement. The cast is universally excellent.
Ruffalo gives the performance of his career, Keaton is solid as a rock,
and McAdams reaps overdue dividends from her decision to broaden her
career into non-glamorous roles at a time when the only scripts they
were sending her were for Diva parts. Smart lady.

A reviewer is not supposed to interject personal feelings in a review
but I will say without apology that I miss films like these -- films
that speak for the injustice in society and offer solutions -- and wish
there were more of them. It seems that when I was younger there was a
lot more interest in doing the right thing merely because it was the
right thing. This no longer seems to be the societal meme, and that
troubles me.

A must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
Spotlight is a 2015 American biographical drama film directed by Tom
McCarthy and written by McCarthy and Josh Singer. The film follows The
Boston Globe's "Spotlight" team, the oldest continuously operating
newspaper investigative unit in the United States, and its
investigation into cases of widespread and systemic child sex abuse in
the Boston area by numerous Roman Catholic priests. It is based on a
series of stories by the real Spotlight Team that earned The Globe the
2003 Pulitzer Prize for Public Service. The film stars Mark Ruffalo,
Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci, Brian
d'Arcy James, Liev Schreiber, and Billy Crudup.

Spotlight was shown in the Out of Competition section of the 72nd
Venice International Film Festival. It was also shown at the Telluride
Film Festival and the Special Presentations section of the 2015 Toronto
International Film Festival. The film was released on November 6, 2015,
by Open Road Films. It won numerous guilds and critics' association
awards, and was named one of the finest films of 2015 by various
publications. It is nominated for six Academy Awards including Best
Film Editing, Best Supporting Actor: Mark Ruffalo, Best Supporting
Actress: Rachel McAdams, Best Original Screenplay, Best Director, and
Best Picture.

In 2001, The Boston Globe hires a new editor, Marty Baron. Baron meets
Walter "Robby" Robinson, the editor of the Spotlight team, a small
group of journalists writing investigative articles that take months to
research and publish. After Baron reads a Globe column about a lawyer,
Mitchell Garabedian, who says that Cardinal Law (the Archbishop of
Boston) knew that the priest John Geoghan was sexually abusing children
and did nothing to stop him, he urges the Spotlight team to
investigate. Journalist Michael Rezendes contacts Garabedian, who
initially declines interview. Though he is told not to, Rezendes
reveals that he is on the Spotlight team, persuading Garabedian to
talk.

Initially believing that they are following the story of one priest who
was moved around several times, the Spotlight team begin to uncover a
pattern of sexual abuse of children by Catholic priests in
Massachusetts, and an ongoing cover-up by the Boston Archdiocese.
Through a man who heads a victim's rights organization, they widen
their search to thirteen priests. They learn through an ex-priest who
worked trying to rehabilitate pedophile priests that there should be
approximately ninety abusive priests in Boston. Through their research,
they develop a list of eighty-seven names, and begin to find their
victims to back up their suspicions. When the September 11 attacks
occur, the team is forced to deprioritize the story. They regain
momentum when Rezendes learns from Garabedian that there are publicly
available documents that confirm Cardinal Law was aware of the problem
and ignored it. After The Boston Globe wins a case to have even more
legal documents unsealed, the Spotlight Team finally begins to write
the story, and plan to publish their findings in early 2002.

As they are about to go to print, Robinson confesses to the team that
he was sent a list of twenty pedophile priests in 1993 in a story he
never followed up on. Baron, nevertheless, tells Robinson and the team
that the work they are doing is important. The story goes to print with
a link leading to the documents that expose Cardinal Law, and a phone
number requesting victims of pedophile priests to come forward. The
following morning, the Spotlight team is inundated with phone calls
from victims coming forward to tell their stories. The film closes with
a list of places in the United States and around the world where the
Catholic Church has been involved in concealing abuse by priests.
<|_=00=_|>
Seconds after the credits for Tom McCarthy's "Spotlight" roll, an
overwhelming feeling of changing your career takes over. Is film
criticism really where I belong? What important, life-changing story am
I not writing about? Truth is, quite a bit of classic films give off
that same feeling. "Rocky" made a bunch of our fathers and older
brothers go for a morning run and drink raw eggs. "Rudy" made us want
to go out and play Notre Dame football. "Spotlight" makes you want to
go down to your local courthouse and search the public records for
clues. Then, get on the phone, with a pen and a pad, and start asking
some really tough questions. Honestly speaking, "Spotlight" is the best
investigative news drama this century. Matter of fact, behind "All the
President's Men" and maybe "The Insider," it's among the best ever
made.

"Spotlight" tells the true story of how the Boston Globe uncovered the
massive scandal of child molestation and cover-up within the local
Catholic Archdiocese, shaking the entire Catholic Church to its core.

Where you must begin, with any praise for the film, is the audacious
and fortifying script by Tom McCarthy and Josh Singer. The two create
cinematic magic in their articulation of words, characters, and
narrative storytelling. Each person feels authentic. Each scene feels
rich and equally important as the last. And most of all, its the
tightest, most satisfying film from beginning to end, seen this year.
From minute one, you're hooked, up until the last second, where they
decide the last words spoken should be, "Spotlight" is astonishingly
crafted.

I'm still in shock and awe that Tom McCarthy is the one who made this.
This is a writer/director who I've appreciated but didn't have the
"love" factor surrounding any of his films. Paired with an outstanding
cast, co-writer Josh Singer, editor Tom McArdle, cinematographer
Masanobu Takayanagi and composer Howard Shore, Tom McCarthy gets a
chance to create his masterpieceÂ…and succeeds. He makes brilliant
artistic choices, such as letting a Mark Ruffalo letter reading play
over a 2-minute taxi car ride back to the newspaper. McCarthy's
direction is one of the best directorial efforts from any filmmaker
this year thus far.

All the players performing are top-notch but walking away, best-in-
show, is the performance of Academy Award nominee Mark Ruffalo. Ruffalo
exhibits his best screen performance to date, and makes a stake in his
claim for the Oscar this year. Weirdly reminiscent of Joaquin Phoenix's
work in "The Master," Ruffalo builds his 'Mike' from the feet up,
giving him his own characteristics that I'm not sure McCarthy and
Singer set out to do. His expressions in words, mannerisms, all
encapsulate the magnitude of his work, bookended by an explosive scene
that brought tears to my eyes. Think back to Emma Stone's acclaimed
work in "Birdman," and the scene that made everyone notice. I wanted to
simply applaud.

Michael Keaton and Rachel McAdams, who play "Robbie" and "Sacha"
respectively, are attune with their characters and destinations. Each
bring strong sensibilities and sensitivity to their roles that
desperately call for them. Hotly worked into the story is Liev
Schreiber as a newly appointed Editor, that in the little screen time
he's given, makes a long-lasting impression. Stanley Tucci is also
afforded the same opportunity, and gives one of the film's best
monologues.

If there's a film this year that feels like an Oscar-winner,
"Spotlight" sure does make a compelling case. Dramatic, heart-
pounding, and necessarily made. It's one of the most important films
this year and probably THE BEST PICTURE OF THE YEAR. The Telluride
tradition may continue.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie undid something inside of me. It's that part of you that
holds on to hope that people can be good, that there is hope for
humanity. I knew the basics of it when I went to watch it: that it is
about investigative reporters looking into a story of abuse in the
catholic church. And it uncovered so much more than just that.
Honestly, this movie should be seen by anyone who seeks the true face
of the world. We don't live in a pink bubble of happiness. F*cked up
things happen to people all the time; worst thing is when it happens to
the innocent. The little ones who can't protect themselves. When they
are robbed of their faith and their hope and their future. Sitting in
the film theatre on the last row, I was brought to tears as in front of
me a long list of places where victims spoke out was scrolling. I was
both shocked and mad. I felt sorry that people can fail so miserably.
"Mike Rezendes: They knew and they let it happen! It could've been you,
it could've been me, it could've been any of us." Indeed. When we
witness darkness and we shut up and we don't do anything about it,
that's when we fail. A poet once wrote, "You can join the millions
talking in the dark. Or you can stand up and scream light, out into the
night." So choose to stand up. In your profession choose to eradicate
the oblivion of evil. This movie is a masterpiece. From the dedication
of the actors to their roles, to the script, the director and the
cinematography. The score? Fantastic. Howard Shore did it again!
<|_=00=_|>
Everything about this movie is outstanding -- the performances, the way
the true events are handled, the cinematography. In this day of digital
news, this movie makes us stand back and realize what we may lose in
the way of investigative journalism as we slowly kill off print media.

The lengths the directors go to to achieve a sense of authenticity is
remarkable. We are there in Boston in 2001-2002. We get to know enough
about each character to make him or her real, but not enough to create
side dramas. The focus remains the child abuse scandal in the
archdiocese in Boston. That reflects the conflict the characters face
and deal with when events make them rethink the focus of their article.

The movie is riveting, though we know the outcome.
<|_=00=_|>
I've rated almost a hundred movies and I've only ever given out six 10s
on this website. I don't rave about many movies and I am tough to
please when it comes to film, but this film is absolute brilliance. It
is flawless. This one earns its 10 and it is one of the best films I
have ever seen. 

Everything about this film is brilliant. The camera work is great and
the score is underrated. However, what makes this film is an absolutely
genius screenplay that is acted to perfection. This script will rock
your world. I am not Catholic. I didn't grow up in a deeply Catholic
area, but this film still affected me greatly. Everyone should see this
movie for that reason. That is something that you have to see for
yourself. 

However, I'd like to focus a little more on the technical aspects.
Beyond the fact that the subject matter is heavy and extremely
important to American and world culture, this movie does everything
else right. The acting is absolutely phenomenal. This is particularly
true for Ruffalo and McAdams. I adore the subtlety with which they both
act. It is brilliant. There isn't much more to say. This film is pure
brilliance from its opening frame to its closing moment. For both
cinematic and cultural reasons, this is a film that every person should
see.
<|_=00=_|>
Relevant, powerful and astonishing. Shocking, criminal and true. These
are the only words to describe this film as it has literally put the
'spotlight' on the systematic cover-up by the Catholic Church of mass
molestation and sexual assault acts performed by the priests in the
Boston archdiocese that were trusted in the communities they
represented. These 'men of God' preyed on the weak and vulnerable for
years and the most powerful religious sect in the world did nothing but
sweep it under the proverbial carpet. 'Spotlight's' dramatic importance
has immediately drawn the attention of film lovers who crave a riveting
production that dives deep into a very real circumstance that has
impacted every corner of the globe.

Tom McCarthy could not have been at the helm of a better film and what
he has been able to achieve in terms of wrestling the attentions of the
audience is worthy of the highest praise. McCarthy, along with Josh
Singer have written a gritty story that pulls no punches and it isn't
afraid to get right into the heart of the required subject. For
'Spotlight' to have been received by the critics as well as it has it
had to stride unapologetically into this unbelievable and sordid
affair. It needed to expose the sensitive and controversial information
that some people may find confronting but in the context of this
outstanding production, absolutely essential. It destroyed lives and
revealed the blatant arrogance of this pious organisation.

The all star cast jumps right out at you even before the opening scenes
are shot up onto the screen. Based on true events, 'Spotlight' pushes
all the right buttons from the beginning. As the name implies,
'Spotlight' refers to the investigative journalism team who report for
the Boston Globe newspaper. They are thorough, relentless and will stop
at nothing to expose headline stories that affect the everyday lives of
normal American's. When the new editor, Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber),
drops a potentially explosive story in the lap of Spotlight chief,
Walter Robinson (Michael Keaton), about allegations of sexual abuse
involving the Catholic Church, Robinson and his loyal crew go about
uncovering one of the greatest criminal cover-ups in human history. The
deeper their investigation goes the more sadistic and shocking the
outcome becomes. Fingers are pointed, people are accused and the list
of clergy involved becomes larger and larger. The whole situation
ceases to become a Boston problem and grows to a worldwide exposure.
Rachel McAdams and Mark Ruffalo are part of the investigative team as
young committed journalists Sacha Pfeiffer and Mike Rezendes
respectively. McAdams performance is award worthy and Ruffalo is fully
engaged in a role that matches his talents. Michael Keaton has found
his niche in Hollywood as a sort after mentor showcasing another strong
performance as the tenacious and hard hitting Robinson. The real
'cherry' in the cast is the presence of the magnificent Stanley Tucci
as Mitchell Garabedian who represents the victims in the whole saga.
Tucci adds the class that takes 'Spotlight' to another level with an
engrossingly accomplished performance.

This is the best journalistic drama since 1976's 'All the President's
Men'. Tom McCarthy has centred his narrative within the confines of the
Boston Globe's newsroom as it should have been. 'Spotlight' doesn't shy
away from the true nature of newspaper drama and the audience benefits
from such an authentic setting. Top shelf acting from some of the very
best young talent sparks the fire that captivates the viewer. Throw in
some true icons in Keaton and Tucci and 'Spotlight' has the perfect
balance. This film will be classified as the very best in its category
and has set a benchmark in terms of confronting realism. Sit back and
enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Going into the theater to see Spotlight, I had read the rave reviews
and knew I was in for something special. This movie did not disappoint!
Being from Boston, this movie really made me think about my life
growing up, as a lot of "what ifs" came to mind. "What if" I went to
church every Sunday..."what if" I was gullible enough to have a priest
lure me into his lair. Spotlight goes straight to the heart of this
amazingly sad (and apparently never-ending) saga of the Catholic church
and the amount of abuse priests have inflicted on hundreds of victims.
The acting is all-around fantastic, from Mr. Keaton to some actors that
I am not familiar with, which is an aspect of this fine movie that
makes it so profound. Tense throughout, I was saddened to hear that
this abuse is an epidemic and probably will never be stopped. The
exclamation point was when a member of the audience stood up and told
the rest of us "...I am a survivor..." WOW...
<|_=00=_|>
It won best film, deservedly so. This is a film that resonated with me
long after I watched it. The complicated tale of the investigation of
paedophile priests in Boston and the publication of it is told in
riveting fashion by Tom Macarthy who does not waste a frame or a scene
to anything less than the plot or character development. I never felt
the running time or in any way disbelieved any of the actors in their
portrayals.

Keaton seems to be on a total roll at the moment and he is excellent as
the head of Spotlight but the whole ensemble seemed to put in a real
shift. This felt like a documentary at times and I could feel the
audience around me leaning forward as each new revelation is uttered. 

Just brilliant.
<|_=00=_|>
Throughout the year I watched many movies and by the middle of the year
I was finding it hard to watch a movie. I really had to force my self.
I thought my love for movies is dying and I'm more of a TV person now. 

I was wrong. 

This movie (and the big short) proved to me that it wasn't me, it was
actually the movies I've seen this year.

This movie has it's flaws for sure. But the acting, script, direction,
design and pace of the movie adds a lot to an already strong and heart
breaking story. I was on the edge of my seat and even after the movie
ended I couldn't move for a while. 

A well made film that I recommend to any drama fan. It certainly helped
me find my love for movies again.

Even with it's flaws I give it a 9.5
