
The amusing Admission is the first successful comedy of the year and a
reasonable look at the admission process for an elite
college--Princeton. Tina Fey as Portia and Paul Rudd as John turn in
pleasant performances as an admissions executive and a progressive
school teacher respectively. Rudd is amiable here and usually
successful in his film career, while Fey's efforts up to now have been
mediocre (Date Night, Baby Mama).

As an Alumni Admissions interviewer for over 30 years at Georgetown
University, I find much of the story ringing true from the
overachieving candidates nurtured by ambitious parents to the
underachieving but brilliant and risky individualists. Portia must
struggle with the boxed-in role of continuing the Princeton tradition
(read stereotypes) or breaking away to push for a student who calls
himself an "autodidact" with low grades but perfect scores on
achievement tests for courses he never took.

Amid the plot's fierce applicant battle for a slot, Portia and John
dance to the usual romantic formula of disliking each other to . . .
Well, you know the drill. However, it's their reactions to the
admission process that provide the authentic tension as he has
developed students with independent minds, and she is used to the
cookie-cutter candidates who lack the passion of those independents.

Director Paul Weitz knows something about family dynamics and children
with his About a Boy, In Good Company, and Little Fockers among the
more obvious examples. Signing up Lily Tomlin to play Portia's feminist
mom was inspired; like the ubiquitous aging Alan Arkin, Tomlin should
now have plenty of work.

Admission requires no small amount of sympathy for the messy business
of growing up and getting aheadÂ—Weitz navigates the vagaries of family
ambition well. If the double-meaning of the title seems too precious to
you, don't worry, the rest of the story is almost unambiguous.

Although Admission is mostly about applicants to an upper-tier college,
it also poses the unethical means some might employ to gain entrance.
Even Portia is not blameless, a touch I found in the film's favor while
it deals with the unreal segment of our population smart enough to be
considered for admission.
<|_=00=_|>
"Admission" was billed as a comedy, too bad it's not. Even when we're
introduced to Portia (Tina Fey), I still couldn't figure out what type
of comedy they were going for. There just doesn't seem to be any
inherent comedy in the university admission process. But when Portia
accidentally kisses high school director John (Paul Rudd), it finally
becomes clear that this is in fact a romantic comedy, a dramatic
romantic comedy.

The actors were definitely in their element. Tina Fey's Portia was the
professionally-minded business woman who only kind of wanted it all.
She wanted a promotion at work and to read poetry in bed with her
British boyfriend Mark (Michael Sheen). I know what you're thinking,
the perfect 30 Rock reunion. But, no. Mark is not Wesley Snipes, and
their relationship isn't hilariously bad, just sad. But then Paul Rudd
enters the picture incorporating the best of a country bumpkin and a
privileged rich kid. He was irresistibly charming with that dimpled
smile and those sparkling green eyes.

There is a plot. John introduces Portia to her son whom she put up for
adoption and who now wants to attend Princeton. Portia has to figure
out if she's ready to be a mother and if Jeremiah (Nat Wolff) should be
accepted into Princeton. It's not a bad story, just not a particularly
funny one. The characters are all good characters so they hold our
interest despite the lack of substance to the movie.

The laughs are hard to come by, but if you're thinking in terms of a
dramatic romantic comedy, then that shouldn't be too surprising. The
lack of laughs is a detriment to the comedy this supposedly is. But as
I said, the characters and actors are good. And if you really connect
to Portia's predicament, then we have a nice little mid-life crisis
turned coming-of-age flick. But that's going to be a small audience.
The actors luckily have fans, and deservedly so, they have arguably
never been better on the big screen. Depending on your love for Rudd
and Fey, "Admission" is probably best left on the wait list.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really surprised at the review ratings for this movie.At first I
considered not watching it because of the average rating, but when
flipping through it it appeared like a movie to consider watching,
after all some ratings, for me, have been way off. I am not into really
bad slap stick comedy or bad acting, or in mediocre been done before
scripts. I began watching the movie and almost regretted it, after a
slow start, and after a few over acted comedy parts, but upon finishing
it, I was glad I stuck it out. The overly comic parts were far and few
between, and turned out to be a little of the comic relief that
balanced the emotional and some what unique script. The acting by
Tina,Ben,Paul,and Travaris was actually good (they gave Tina a bit much
of the overly comic parts, but what can you do). Overall, I was
impressed with the movie and its "differentness". 

I would recommend this movie to those who aren't overly critical on
every detail and aspect of a movie, to those who like sensitive movies
that overcome pasts and trials and fight for people and ideals, and to
those who can weigh the value of people who are not perfect or who do
things perfectly, but who change and grow and fight to do better.
<|_=00=_|>
For those of you who are thinking that this film is a comedy, you would
be wrong. It is more of a drama with some funny moments thrown in
(although I never laughed out loud; not even once). As a matter of
fact, by the time the film was over I was actually feeling a little
sad. The story centers on an admissions officer for Princeton
University, Portia Nathan (Tina Fey) who is responsible for combing
through thousands of submission requests and evaluating who should be
allowed to attend this prestigious school. On top of that, the current
dean of admissions is retiring and Portia and her rival Corinne (Gloria
Reuben) are both up for the job. Gearing up for her annual recruiting
trip, Portia is contacted by John Pressman (Paul Rudd) to come and
check out his somewhat fundamental and "earthy" school. Upon arrival
John tells Portia that he thinks that one of the kids in his school is
actually the child that she gave up for adoption when she was in
college. Jeremiah (Nat Wolff) has been a slacker most of his life, but
it turns out that he is a natural genius and was just bored in school
most of the time. He gets very interested in attending Princeton and so
the story begins. The film started out mildly comical, but as the story
went along it became more and more serious. The two characters that did
add a little light-heartedness to the film were Susannah (Lily Tomlin)
who is Portia's mother and an eccentric soul. She is not much into
relationships of any kind whether it is a mother/daughter or a romantic
relationship. The other character that I really liked was Nelson
(Travaris Meeks-Spear) who is John's adopted son who is just looking to
be normal and to not go gallivanting around the globe all the time with
his father. I think the cast as a whole did a really good job and the
story was not boring, but I think that billing it as a comedy was the
wrong way to go. The story was a lot more serious than I expected it to
be, so I think that as word gets out, this film may not do as well as
expected. It was not a bad film, but I am not sure that it is worth the
price of a ticket. I am giving this film an amber light.
<|_=00=_|>
Admission will make any Tina Fey fan very happy. She's at her best,
displaying her very unique style of comedy so well, that you'd think
she wrote the script. Paul Rudd might not be at his greatest but he
definitively plays his role well. Wallace Shawn is excellent as the
dean of admission with just the right tone. Lily Tomlin is also very
good, as a very unique mother.

Nice humor, nice pace, good ideas, and just a little silly.

The main drawback is that at time, it feels a bit light. Some of the
plot items could have been delved a little more to get a better
perspective.

Overall, it's nice entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Though it's billed as a comedy, you
would be best prepared walking in if you expect a dramatic rom-com. The
mere presence of Tina Fey and Paul Rudd would elevate most any script
and movie. They are inherently likable and talented, and that's a lucky
thing for director Paul Weitz (About a Boy).

The movie plays like a coming-of-age flick ... not for the gaggle of
high school students ... but rather for Tina Fey's character. She plays
a Princeton admissions officer named Portia Nathan, and it's her job to
weed through the files of thousands of over-achieving 18 year olds who
are dreaming of attending the prestigious Ivy League school. Her
serious approach to her work is complicated by a competition with her
inner-office rival (Gloria Reuben) and by a going-nowhere relationship
with Michael Sheen.

All of that sounds pretty straight-forward, so it takes a left turn
when Portia makes a campus visit to the Quest School, an experimental
campus run by ultimate good guy John Pressman (Paul Rudd). Pressman is
the guy who rebels against his privileged childhood and bounces from
world-changing missions to life-altering experiences. His current stop
as an administrator for a school filled with off-beat genius kids is
focused on Jeremiah (Nat Wolff). Jeremiah is an autodidact (reads
everything) who was never understood by mainstream schools, but has his
particular intelligence recognized at Quest.

So Paul Rudd approached Tina Fey in hopes that she will take an
interest in Jeremiah's passion for learning and overlook his lack of
satisfactory resume. There are also side-plots featuring a possible
genetic link and a couple of strained maternal relationships from both
Rudd and Fey, the latter's mom played with zeal by Lily Tomlin.

There are no real surprises here, but the movie benefits from Fey,
Rudd, Tomlin and the always fun Wallace Shawn. The whole elitist
college admissions process is fascinating, but really impacts only a
very small segment of society. Because of that, and the limited laughs
offered by the script, it's difficult to imagine the film gathering any
real following.
<|_=00=_|>
I love Tina Fey and Paul Rudd never gets old either (literally and
metaphorically). The movie itself has quite a few flaws though. Never
sure if it is a comedy or a drama. Walking that line was never going to
be easy and it stumbles more than a few times. Tina and Paul do their
best to keep it on tracks.

The kid actors are pretty decent, but don't have much to go through in
their arks. Of course the movie is about lost love and about family in
general. But even those things are not mixed in the right mixture.
There is either too much of something or too little of another thing. A
shame that the talent and the massive effort on Tinas part does not
really get the movie it would deserve.
<|_=00=_|>
i actually do think that the film was more of a drama than a comedy. it
was surely not the type of the film i expected before i watched it.
Since it had Tina Fey and Paul Rudd, i surely expected the film to be
either similar to Date Night or This is 40. But the film was quite
different from those two in a good way. it was such a joy to see both
of Fey and Rudd acting in a more drama- like comedy without all of the
exaggerating acting. Although for me it did seem that Tina Fey's
performance was a bit constrained it was still quite nice to see her
portray a role which was just a normal person which we encounter every
day around us. Paul Rudd also gave a quite lovely and warm performance
in portraying his character. The film was not a crazy comedy full of
jokes, but rather it was a decent more drama-like film which encouraged
people to start taking responsibility for what they do and have done.
<|_=00=_|>
"You may have built schools in third world countries and cleaned
contaminated water from villages but you have never tried to get a kid
into Princeton." Portia Nathan (Fey) is an admission counselor for
Princeton who is in line for a huge promotion. Everything is going her
way until she travels to a new school to check out an applicant. While
there she meets John Pressman (Rudd) with some interesting news about
who she has come to see. Going in I was expecting nothing but
hilariousness. Tiny Fey & Paul Rudd together how can you go wrong I
thought. While I do have to say that I enjoyed the movie this was not
nearly as funny as I was expecting. The movie had the feel of some of
the new Judd Apatow movies, lot of heart but not as laugh-out-loud
funny as I was going for. I'm not saying this isn't good, it is worth
watching but don't go in like I did and expect nothing but wall to wall
funny. Overall, a movie that I did like but wasn't as funny as I was
thinking it was going to be. I give it a B.
<|_=00=_|>
ADMISSION (2013) *** Tina Fey, Paul Rudd, Lily Tomlin, Gloria Reubens,
Wallace Shawn, Michael Sheen, Nat Wolf, Travaris Spears, Sonya Walger,
Olek Krupa. Funny and warm-hearted comedy of errors with Fey on top of
her game as a Princeton admissions officer who finds herself in a moral
quandary: a possible candidate for the esteemed university may be her
long-lost son. Rudd is amiable and low-key fun as the director of a
special school of higher education including the lad in question and
has great chemistry with Fey too boot. Tomlin is a stitch as her
crunchy granola feminist mom who steals the film. While director Paul
Weitz mixes the screwball with the sentimental in fine spurts the
screenplay by Karen Croner, based on Jean Hanff Korelitz' novel, cuts
the corners a bit in the satire-rich atmosphere.
