
Not much to say except I'm really annoyed by the critics sometimes.
This movie is solid. Has a vintage old-time feel to it. Well acted.
Deals with the problems of the times (racism, bullying, war,
alcoholism, death) in a dramatic, humorous and clever way.

Great story. Whole family loved it. They dealt with faith in a
reasonable way. They pulled heartstrings without being saccharine. The
critics are just so dead-set on hating any movie that deals with faith,
especially the Christian faith. This movie soft-pedals that faith - but
it definitely is a strong element.

Wholeheartedly recommend this movie to families who want to be able to
go out together for a movie, and be inspired and entertained at the
same time.
<|_=00=_|>
It is difficult to express in words the absolute beauty of this
film.This movie truly grips your soul as you experience with Little Boy
the meaning of relentless, mountain moving faith, the courage to face
one's fears, the ugliness of bullying and racism, the power and beauty
of forgiveness, and the great hardships that war brings to families.
This movie had me crying one moment and laughing the next, but most of
all, its impact has remained with me long after I left the theater!It
has truly inspired me to never give up and to keep believing when there
is no evidence to encourage me to do so. As a middle school teacher, I
was blessed with the opportunity to take all of our students to see
this film. It was incredible to watch the student's reactions to the
film! They were cheering, laughing, and crying all throughout just as I
was! Their comments after give tribute to this movie's life changing
messages! I have several "little boys" who are often picked on for
their "fun size" (a name they have given for their short stature), and
the common reflection for each of them was "Little people can do great
things." and "Size doesn't keep you from greatness"! I am truly
praising Jesus for this powerful, inspirational, film that has already
blessed me, my family, and my students beyond measure! God bless you
for making such a beautiful film!
<|_=00=_|>
I was captivated by the acting, as well as the cinematography and
special effects contained on this great production. I'm glad to see
that the filmmakers and actors are bringing this kind of messages to
the world through art reminding us that love is the force that brings
us all together and that's the path to follow as humanity. I loved
Eduardo Ver√°stegui's performance by showing Little Boy the importance
of faith. It made me think about how we must have the strength to
defend the truth even when some people don't see it. It also made me
remember that if we have the courage to go the right way and follow our
goals or dreams, based on good intentions, God will give us what we
need to get trough difficulties. Not only is it a very entertaining
movie with a deep emotional content, but it is also an example of
kindness and compassion, great job on bringing all together. The film
made me cry, laugh and feel identified at some point with the
characters. It takes you on an exciting emotional roller coaster with a
beautiful message at the end that will take your breath away.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally a movie that you can take the kids to where both the parents
and children love,love,love the film. This is a well filmed beautifully
acting movie with a message that can change our world for good.It will
make you laugh, cry, applaud, be inspired, dream, pray, and feel good
about life after viewing it. The little boy does an incredible job
acting along with the rest of the cast. David Henrie definitely has a
movie acting career in his future after an award winning performance.
It was refreshing to see Kevin James in a different more serious role
even though he still had the audience laughing! This is how movies
should be made for families and anyone else wanting a clean, uplifting
film that everyone from all ages can enjoy! This is one movie you don't
want to miss especially while it is in theaters as the sound effects
and tract are amazing as well!
<|_=00=_|>
Little Boy is a poignant movie which gripped me from beginning to end
as I followed this child's journey to bring his father home from the
war. He displays a faith and determination only a child can have and
what makes it believable is that the movie does a great job in
establishing the little boy's love for his father, who is his best
friend, as his driving force. Jakob Salvati, who plays the little boy,
Pepper, delivers a brilliant performance. The movie dealt with issues
relevant to the time in a sensitive yet satisfying manner. It made me
laugh, cry, and challenged me. With Hollywood delivering so many
unsatisfying movies, this is a must see. I have already viewed this
twice and will likely see it again. Don't miss this heartwarming story.
<|_=00=_|>
"Little Boy" is an excellent film! It was very well done with period
costuming and set designs. It contains a plethora of stories inside the
story itself taking the audience through many different adventures. The
emotion was high throughout the film with variations in amusing
entertainment and very emotional moments that grab your heart drawing
you right in! Between tears of joy and tears of sorrow absorbing the
emotions of the story with the characters themselves... I could hardly
keep my eyes dry. The acting was excellent and the cast was very well
put together. Little Boy himself could not have been better cast! He is
a gem in this story! I would go back to see it a second time.... I
thoroughly enjoyed this film and give it a huge thumbs up! I rate it 10
out of 10! Heidi Lynn Borden... Wildflower Christian Films, Texas
<|_=00=_|>
This isn't a perfect movie - but it's a very, very good one. I hardly
ever write reviews, but after seeing the really terrible critic reviews
this movie has received, I thought I owed it to any potential watchers
to let you know that I believe the Metascore is very misleading.

This movie really has no fatal flaws - the story is well-built, the
acting is very good (much better than I expected), and the filming is
beautiful. The tone of it really gives the right feeling of the time
that the movie is set. The involvement of religious themes is only
objective, and is viewed from different perspectives.

The only thing I'm missing is a bit more development in a few of the
supporting characters, but that didn't really take much away from the
overall impression i was left with. Pretty much everything else works
really well in my opinion.

So if you're considering watching it, please do! It's a beautiful movie
that is guaranteed to make you smile (:
<|_=00=_|>
Saw the screening and loved every minute of the film. Not only is it
inspiring, but it makes you think and see the world through a child's
eyes. 

Engaging storyline, amazing cinematography and great acting. Jakob
Salvati is perfect for the part. Truly a natural. 

Recommended for the entire family with a message that can be applied to
all aspects of life in any culture and language. Little Boy teaches
children young and old that having Faith can make the impossible,
possible.

It's evident the thought that was placed in creating a quality film for
everyone to enjoy with a positive message.
<|_=00=_|>
I laughed out loud and I cried out loud. This was an amazing, riveting,
flawlessly performed film wrapped around one of the most beautiful
messages I have ever had the pleasure of being entertained into hearing
and believing. I was even more impressed when I with the many plot
twists that kept me guessing - I realized at a certain point that there
was no predicting in this movie! I had the pleasure of watching a Q&A
with the producers and the people behind this film have a great heart
and purpose for making this film, which for me is all the more reason
for this project to succeed and reach every corner that it can manage
to. Moreover, God is in the center of it all and lives were saved and
touched in the making of and showing of this film! Thank you for this
film - I am so grateful to have enjoyed and I can only hope more can do
the same!
<|_=00=_|>
Ya know, I pride myself as a macho strong, independent man, I don't
have a pick up truck nor have I engaged in caber tossing like they do
in that Scottish athletic games, but I don't easily cry while watching
a film, no matter how sentimental it can get. The last time I shed
tears was when watching "Armageddon" the scene in which Bruce Willis
said goodbye to his daughter played by Liv Tyler. But my holy freakin'
goodness, LITTLE BOY had me literally crying like four times at the
screening, four times, man! And ya know what, I didn't regret it at
all. This is a very powerful, inspiring, can-do film, led by child
star, Jakob Salvati whose talent is bigger than his appearance.

From co-writer/director Alejandro Monteverde, LITTLE BOY is about an
8-year old boy, Jakob's character, Pepper who believes that he has what
it takes to bring his father home from WWII alive. He and his father
are really close, so when his father (Michael Rapaport) leaves for war
in place of his oldest son, it sets off events in that family, in that
community, in that small town that will get them all learning about
tolerance, faith, and love. Jakob is given a task by the local priest
(Tom Wilkinson) and this list of assignments are supposed to help bring
his father back, one of them is for Pepper to befriend the only
Japanese resident, Hashimoto (Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa), it's an uphill
task for Pepper seeing that his older brother and the whole town are
blaming Hashimoto for the war.

Christian community might see this film as something that they can
encourage their members to go to theaters and see with their families
and I think they should, but LITTLE BOY is not a Christian film. It
also wrestles with the idea of believing in one self, one's will power.
But what's great about this film is that it doesn't take sides, it only
goes to show that many people hold different beliefs, doesn't always
mean that some are more right than others. This child actor, Jakob,
blew me away. He's so effortless, you feel his pain and agony, Jakob
makes it so easy for us to feel sad for Pepper, makes us want him to be
a better kid each day. If you're looking for a good cry, LITTLE BOY is
the prefect movie for you, it's a tear jerker but not in a sense that
it alienates certain audiences, because anybody who's dealt with loss
or separation, anybody who doubts the idea of a mountain-moving faith,
can relate to LITTLE BOY.

Please read more at Ramascreen.Com
