
Arnold Schwarzenegger's return to the big screen following his
eight-year stint as the Governor of California was met with a
triumphant cheer from fans of the ridiculous, over-the-top action
movies that the Austrian actor helped popularize. Cranking out
testosterone-laced like The Expendables 2, Escape Plan and Sabotage, it
seemed like Arnold hadn't missed a step during his big- screen hiatus.

But amid all the gunfire and explosions and catchphrases,
Schwarzenegger also managed to find time for some genuine acting. Set
against the backdrop of a small Midwestern town in the aftermath of a
deadly pandemic that produces zombie-like symptoms, Maggie opens with
quiet family man Wade (Schwarzenegger) driving into the city to pick up
his daughter (Abigail Breslin), who has just been diagnosed with the
virus.

Unlike The Walking Dead, whose characters would resolve this problem
with a well-placed shot from a crossbow or pistol, the world of Maggie
is much more humane. There are numerous protocols in place for keeping
the virus contained, including setting aside a quarantine zone where
the infected are sent to live among each other until their condition
deteriorates to the point where they must be euthanized.

Still in the early stages of infection, Maggie is allowed to return
home with Wade, with the admonishment that she be taken to the
quarantine zone once her symptoms become worse. Maggie's stepmother
(Joely Richardson) sends her own children to stay with relatives as a
precautionary measure, and the ramshackle farmhouse becomes a cradle of
tension and sorrow as the family bides their time waiting for the
inevitable.

If you strip out the zombie-related elements, this could just as easily
have been any number of films about a teenager with a terminal illness
- the only real difference here is that Maggie's affliction leaves her
prone to grey skin, wounds that won't heal and a desire to consume raw
flesh. Downplaying the horror in favor of focusing on the familial
drama is a superb choice, and lends the film a distinct voice in the
cacophony of an already crowded genre.

Maggie is easily the most emotional and melodramatic work of
Schwarzenegger's career, a somber and melancholy affair that showcases
a range we've never seen from the aging action superstar. His on screen
relationship with Breslin feels authentic and believable, and it's hard
not to sympathize with a loving father who knows his child is slipping
away.

In his directorial debut, Henry Hobson knows just when to pull at the
audience's heartstrings. There's very little in the way of conventional
horror, which might disappoint some genre fans hoping for a few scares,
but this shouldn't be seen as a shortcoming. Maggie is an interesting
and unique approach to a subject that is often glossed over in other
zombie-related stories, and the quieter moments are the ones that
resonate the most.
<|_=00=_|>
First off I just want to say that this is my first review of any film.
I attended the world premiere of Maggie last night at the Tribeca Film
Festival and I am also a huge Arnold fan. It was great seeing him
perform in a different (dramatic) role. 

The cinematography in this film was absolutely stunning. From the
location setting, the small town, old house; it was all well put
together. I thought the cast was great and Arnold did a great job in
his role but this film was focused on Abigail Breslin. And she stole
the show. She outperformed the rest of the cast and made each viewer
connected to her character very closely. Abigail had many scenes alone
in this film and without giving too much away, there were times you can
feel her pain and sort of understand what she was experiencing as the
film progressed. 

Maggie really shed new light to the zombie genre because it showed
intimately how a family member was deeply affected by an outbreak. A
father and daughter bond filled with love and courage and the chemistry
played on screen between Arnold and Abigail was fantastic. Each
character showed great passion throughout the film and it was well
directed by Henry Hobson, his directorial debut. 

I recommend this film to viewers who are interested in character
development, great cinematography, a well written script, and a solid
meaningful ending. Please don't come into this movie expecting The
Walking Dead/ Zombieland type of action film because this isn't it.
Hopefully Arnold will take on more of these roles in the future and
from what we saw in Maggie, Abigail has a great career ahead of her.
9/10
<|_=00=_|>
2015 TRIBECA FILM FESTIVAL: Zombies have been all the craze for quite
sometime with shows like "The Walking Dead" and films like "World War
Z" dominating the box office. I've never been such a fan of the genre
as something about the undead just hunting on human flesh never seemed
appealing. In Henry Hobson's "Maggie," where he recruits Arnold
Schwarzenegger and Academy Award nominee Abigail Breslin as a father-
daughter pair that spend the final days together before the young
Maggie transforms into a zombie is one of the more compelling works on
the genre seen yet.

Charismatic and truly very moving at times, it's surprising to see
where debut screenwriter John Scott 3 brings this compassionate tale.
We're introduced to Maggie as her father Wade, just after finds her
after a two-week search. She's brought to their farm home where her
step-mother Caroline (played by Joely Richardson) and her two younger
siblings reside. As Maggie's transformation is sure to become erratic
and certain, the entire family sits on the edge as their beloved
daughter deals with not only her changing self, but addressing the
surroundings of her friends and a future that is now to never be.

In his most reserved and accessible performances of his career, Arnold
Schwarzenegger proves what happens when you work with some of the most
talented people in the business for decades. You're surely to pick up
some of their ticks and beats. Internalized as any performance seen by
an actor, Schwarzenegger digs deep to show the soul of a broken man,
helpless against a virus that is taking away his most precious gift. In
addition, he fights for his daughter's right to live out her final days
from the local authorities who believe she must go to quarantine, where
the infected are put to death. It's a shocking display of emotion from
the former governor of California in what will surely be a talking
piece of many following a viewing.

Oscar-nominee Abigail Breslin truly is a talent. "Zombieland," which
many will think of based on themes, kept her at an arm's distance in
terms of allowing the environment to reveal itself through her actions.
In other zombie films and TV shows, the ongoing theme and narrative is
survival. "Maggie" takes it in a different direction. You see the
deterioration of not just the person's body, but their hopes and
dreams. Breslin displays the broken heart of a girl who sees her former
boyfriend get taken away despite pleading with his father to stay just
one more day. You see the realization of her new self in the behaviors
she acquires along the way. And most importantly, and probably the most
heartbreaking, is in the final interactions with her friends and in the
truth of a future that will never come. Breslin shines like no other.
It's happy to see her stretching her acting capabilities at this point
in her career.

The technical traits of "Maggie" are spot on for the most part thanks
to director Hobson. In his feature directorial debut, Hobson hones in
on the tone of an emotional drama, not a horror film with something
extra to offer. I think back to something like M. Night Shymalan's "The
Sixth Sense" when the thrill factor was secondary to its story and
characters. Hobson captures most of those things. Cinematographer Lukas
Ettlin paints the canvas beautifully as we've seen in other efforts
like "The Lincoln Lawyer" and TV's "Black Sails."

"Maggie" is a moving drama. Echoing the moods of hard-hitting films but
with the charisma of any entertaining blockbuster you would see this
summer. It's well worth every dollar of an admission ticket and is one
of the more enthralling and captivating films of the spring.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw the premiere of this and haven't been able to stop thinking about
it. Schwarzenegger is tender and subtle, I saw one review describe his
performance as 'gentle', which I bet is not an adjective often used of
the man. Abigail Breslin is a sad, scary, horrific lead. Joely
Richardson plays a difficult role in a stepmother; a terrified third
wheel doing her best with two small kids of her own. Movie is 90
minutes long and destined to be a cult classic. I think my only
criticism is that the director's palette looked like an instagram 'old
photos' filter; there was enough great acting in this film, and sad
suspense leavened with humor, without having to wash it in beige.

Overall loved the film, and the studio will regret not putting it in
wide release.
<|_=00=_|>
'MAGGIE': Four Stars (Out of Five)

An indie zombie flick, made on a budget of just $4 million, starring
Arnold Schwarzenegger and Abigail Breslin! It was directed by first
time feature filmmaker Henry Hobson and written by first time feature
film writer John Scott 3. The movie is actually more of a dramatic
character study, than an action or horror film, dealing with the
relationship between a teenage girl, in the Midwest, and her loving
father. The catch is that the girl is infected with a deadly zombie
virus. It's definitely not the type of movie that a lot of
Schwarzenegger fans are expecting, but I really liked it. 

The story is set in a small Midwest town, where a virus, called the
necroambulist virus, has broken out. It slowly turns it's victims into
zombies and the government deals with the problem by throwing 'the
infected' into isolation wards. Maggie (Breslin) is a young teenage
girl, who was recently infected by the disease. Her father, Wade
(Schwarzenegger), must do his best to care for her, in her last days,
and also come to terms with what must be done, when she finally
changes.

I wasn't sure what exactly to expect, going into this movie. The
premise, and idea of Arnold Schwarzenegger starring in a low-budget
zombie drama flick, were both very intriguing to me. I am a little
disappointed it doesn't have more action, and gruesome thrills, but it
is a very well made drama film. Arnold gives, arguably, his best
performance to date, and Breslin is pretty impressive as well. I wish
there would have been a little more to the story, than just another
drama flick about a terminally ill teen, and her relationship with her
friends and family. It's almost like a zombie version of 'MY SISTER'S
KEEPER' or 'THE FAULT IN OUR STARS', except with a little
Schwarzenegger thrown in as well. I think he's making a lot of wise
career choices lately, and he's starting to resemble Clint Eastwood,
more and more, with each movie. This isn't a great film but it is a
nice entry in Arnold's impressively expanding resume.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/GZMz2QipSqQ
<|_=00=_|>
Maggie is the film that finally shows an emotional side to zombie
films. This movie is not about killing all the infected people in
sight. I think that Maggie has a least four excellent performances. The
best is definitely Abigail Breslin. It is Arnold Schwarzenegger who is
going to bring people to the theatre to see this movie but it really is
Breslin's film, she is really the star. Schwarzenegger however is not
his normal self. The man can act, and I'm sure that this film will
never receive the credit it should because Schwarzenegger is in it and
people are too quick to judge it by its cover. Maggie is slow but the
performances managed to keep me interested. The film is also dark which
perfectly captures its tone. I think that people need to go into this
movie with an unbiased mind and it could really be enjoyed.
<|_=00=_|>
This is in many ways a good, strange and different film, it is a zombie
film, but not in the way you would expect, this is a drama about a dad
finding and taking care of his daughter in her last days of an illness.
The illness being she is turning into a zombie after she got bit and
everything is treated in this film as it is just a terminal disease,
there is no cure, there is a time frame, there is some signs to what is
happening, but in the end you can't survive it.

It is a slow moving drama and really is the storyline and the
characters and their interactions that is the film, we are talking a
time frame of a week or so and we mainly follow Maggie and her dad and
how they try to spend their last days together. We are slowly but
steadily introduced to the plague that have been turning people into
zombies and how people with the disease are being treated and
eventually put away, because there is no cure, if you are bit, there
are only three ways of going on, go to the camps where the rest of the
zombies are kept, get some kind of shot that will kill you in a
excruciating way or take the life of yourself by shooting, breaking
your neck or other means.

It is a heartfelt movie that you really can't stop watching even though
the story moves slowly ahead and it is not like any other zombie movie,
it is insightful and interesting and really shows some aspects of life
that has nothing to do with becoming a zombie, it could have been about
any other terminal illness that can't be cured, but the zombie part is
just a great twist to it all.

I was entertained and thoughtful after seeing it, it was really
something other then I had expected.
<|_=00=_|>
I think one of the reasons this film has a fairly low score is that a
lot of people are seeing Arnie/zombies and thinking they are going to
be watching a big budget blockbuster with Arnie running around blowing
heads off. This, for me, was much better. It was slow moving,
thoughtful and Arnie's performance as Wade in it was a revelation to
someone who has never been a huge fan. Breslin's depiction of a
troubled teen, Maggie, facing her own mortality and horrific end was
subtle but effective. A lot of people have been questioning why make it
a zombie film and not just any infection but without Maggie's disease
making her ultimately dangerous, Wade would not have had to wrestle
with his conscience in what he had to do, making the whole film
pointless. If you preferred The Road to The Walking Dead then this is
the film for you. If you're an Arnie fan expecting the usual fodder
then I would suggest skipping this and digging out your Terminator
box-set.
<|_=00=_|>
STAR RATING: ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning
** Sunday Night * Monday Morning

A contagious virus has spread across America that is causing the
infected to slowly mutate in to cannibalistic zombies. Wade Vogel's
(Arnold Schwarzenegger) daughter Maggie (Abigail Breslin) would be one
such person, a young girl grimly aware of her terrible predicament. As
the inevitable closes in, father and daughter bond in a final, all
encompassing way, before they're drawn towards a terrifying final
outcome.

After his much hyped comeback a few years ago, Schwarzenegger has
achieved what can only at best be called the most hit and miss results
with his new batch of explosive, '80s flavoured action films. There was
still something resembling an audience, but most people's tastes have
cleaned up quite a bit. And so, out of nowhere, it seems, he delivers
this latest offering, which on paper comes off just like one of his
regular shoot 'em up type films, with him versus zombies. But instead,
he's taken such a plot line and given it a more mature angle, as a more
tender and heartfelt examination of the final days of a father and
daughter, that shows a departure from his usual type of fare.

As more emotionally driven as the plot is, it doesn't really have the
best sense of structure or direction, and instead seems to be driven
more on a moody, lingering sense of atmosphere and tension, with the
lighting drained out and brightened up in subsequent shots to affect
the mood. Debut feature length director Henry Hobson has shown a
certain knack and sense of style behind the camera, but he needs to go
back to school a little on his structural narrative abilities, and
crafting a film that has somewhere to go in spite of it's heart.

So, we have it, then, Arnie's most bizarre film, ever, a totally
unexpected and different effort from him that's appeared out the blue.
In spite of it's strangeness, it's better than anything he's done
lately, and shows a more mature and emotional side developing after so
many years. ***
<|_=00=_|>
A first time director makes a zombie apocalypse movie ? What's the
gimmick ? you ask . How about a brooding , introspective film where not
a lot happens and is directed in a very obvious independent style .
Nothing too radical about that you say but here's the hook - sell it to
the public by casting an erstwhile mega-star who despite being ultra
popular with cinema goers in the 1980s and early 1990s was never an
actor and cast him in a pivotal role that requires him to act . This
might be playing with fire or at the very least seems like a cynical
attempt to publicise a film in a market it's perhaps not suited for .
Let's face it here guys , if you're old enough to remember Arnold
Schwarzenegger then there's only one thing you're going to expect and
that is over the top violence with weapons that never run out of
ammunition and cringe inducing one liners 

!!!!! SUGGESTIVE SPOILERS !!!!!! 

And if you go in to this film expecting any of this you'll probably
either fall asleep or stagger out of the cinema in a state of terminal
boredom long before the end credits start . MAGGIE was originally going
to star Paddy Considine in the role of Wade and director Henry Hobson
deserves some credit in getting a fondly remembered big hitter as a
casting coup . Again let me emphasise however you're not going to see
much in the way of action because this is a character driven film
concentrating on mood , long silences and pained facial expression .
There's also another clue as to what you're going to be watching and
that is the title of the film is MAGGIE and so it revolves around the
titular teenage character played by Abigail Breslin finds herself
succumbing by a terrifying disease that is sweeping the world . There
is some very haunting , understated moments in this film which often
feels more like a drama than an out and out horror and it's something
of a revelation seeing Arnie in such an unusual role . I don't think
he'll be up for Best Supporting Actor at next year's Oscars but it's
good see him a film that cost a mere four million dollars which
wouldn't get the average Hollywood star out of bed 

It's not a flawless film of course . Hobson direction doesn't perhaps
have the urgency the story perhaps needed more and means MAGGIE isn't
as captivating as it should have been with a bit too much in the way of
long pregnant silences . He's also a bit too reliant on close ups which
becomes a little bit too noticeable very quickly . But despite these
flaws for a movie costing four million dollars it's a fairly impressive
feature length debut from a first time director
