
I am an engineer working offshore in North Sea. I have seen the movie
this evening in UK. Is really a good movie, congratulations to all
involved you done a great job showing a little bit of ''life in
offshore rig''. Looks like in this movie is BP fault but in real world
at the rig site everyone has the right to STOP THE JOB if something is
wrong or something is going on against the procedures. I have work
before in BP rigs in North Sea and I stop the job when I wasn't happy
with what is going on I had all the support from the Service Company
that I am working for and also BP company understood my concerns. If
you are a engineer, roughneck, derrick-man or whatever you are at Rig
Site if you think that something is going wrong and against the
procedures STOP THE JOB. I do it and I will do again better to lose my
job than to see people dying.(Thanks for reading my review)
<|_=00=_|>
I usually don't write reviews but saw mostly negative reviews on here
so far and that ain't right.

It is not a perfect movie and it's not artsy, or profound. However it
is very entertaining, has wide appeal, will make you laugh, have you on
the edge of your seat and might even make you cry. It's a slow build at
the beginning but the tension soon rises and you will then be hooked.
The effects appear to be realistic and mostly practical made with a
production value that appears to be one of the most expensive films
ever made (which alone is impressive given it is not a sequel or
superhero movie).

Mark Wahlberg works as an everyman lead, but it is Kurt Russel who
steals the show. Maybe the performance of his career, and the strongest
aspect of the film in my opinion. Malkovich is also amazing as the
villain, stealing every scene he is in. The two of them along with the
incredible story done with top notch sets, effects and sound is exactly
why you have to pay the money to see this on the biggest screen
possible.

If you need a film to be a character study or you want senseless action
from start to finish then you might be one of the people who is
disappointed. But if you are looking for a gripping story with great
tension and action that can be enjoyed by a wide range then go see this
film.
<|_=00=_|>
Deepwater Horizon is a movie that succeeds on two levels: as an
action-packed blockbuster and as an honest depiction of a tragic
disaster. It's the story of the BP oil rig that exploded and
contaminated the Gulf of Mexico. The way Berg directs the sequence of
events is well paced and purposefully developmental for a good chunk of
the movie. It takes about 45 minutes before the crap hits the fan,
during which we're allowed time to get to know the characters - their
quirks, their personalities - so we can empathize with their situation.
The stakes feel real, as they should (and were), which is a testament
to the directing and the acting. Mark Wahlberg and Kurt Russell
dominate in their roles, Russell given the opportunity to remind us why
he's one of the biggest stars ever. The supporting cast is excellent,
including John Malkovich, Gina Rodriguez, and Dylan O'Brien, who have
chemistry and rapport between other characters (Malkovich and Russell
sharing a couple intense moments where not a word is said).

The disaster itself is portrayed brilliantly. The tone remains frantic
and the stunning special effects work puts it over the edge. Once
things go south, it's a nonstop adrenaline rush till the end. The only
reason it's not rated higher is because it's merely a depiction of
events, nothing groundbreaking or revolutionary in regards to
storytelling. But it didn't have to be. This was a tragic event and the
gritty realism shown here is as refreshing as it is intense. If you're
in the mood for a deeper-than-average thrill-ride, look no further than
Deepwater Horizon.
<|_=00=_|>
What is it about disasters that we enjoy watching? I could come up with
a number of reasons, but the bottom line is that Hollywood has shifted
to dramatizing former events as a means for more movies. Hi, Robbie K
here bringing you another review of the latest films to grace the
screen. Tonight we hit Deepwater Horizon starring Mark Wahlberg, Kurt
Russell, and a handful of other actors. Let's get started. 

LIKES:  Great acting  Over the top graphics  Emotionally stimulating

You might be thinking that I have gone crazy, after all Wahlberg hasn't
had the greatest roles. Deepwater Horizon breaks the mediocre streak
and drops him into a position that may net him an Oscar nomination.
Wahlberg's portrayal of Mike Williams is certainly a heroic one filled
with wisdom, strength, and a calm edge that sets the stage for a
natural leader. But there is also a realistic side brought out near the
second half the screen that balances out the heroic theatrics of
Hollywood. Kurt Russell no surprise plays his usual rugged role, making
sure to add the hard edge testosterone rush all older actors need to
bring. Hudson and Malkovich get A's as well, each bringing the needed
involvement to round out the cast. All the extras and lesser billed
roles complete the picture as a close oil crew, but much of their time
is spent standing around or ducking from fire. 

Speaking of fire, the visual effects are top notch in terms of computer
graphic imaging. Deepwater Horizon's reconstruction of an oil rig
succumbing to its doom is very realistic. For you technical folks, the
directors have crafted scenes to mimic the daily operations involved
with pumping oil, from watching gritty mud flow through the pipe to the
cracking foundation floor. That sound boring? Well those looking for a
little more suspense will be impressed when the whole operation blows
to piecesliterally. You might be amazed seeing the rig, and its crew,
get covered in oil before erupting into a fiery inferno you've seen in
the trailers. My friend described the visuals being so good, he felt
immersed into the disaster, wanting to duck or dive as explosions
rattled the screen. 

Of course the real magic to the visual effects are the emotions it
brings with it. The various sequences and montages of the exploding
metal certainly paints a terrifying picture as you wonder how much time
is left until something falls. Now add our characters trying to
traverse the obstacle course from heck, feeling horrifying chills run
through your body as you watch human bodies hurled through the air and
disturbing injuries protruding in gory details. However, it is not all
dismay and dread, no Deepwater Horizon has plenty of sequences and
montages of heroism that will make you a little proud to be a humanno
matter how overly theatrical it could be. 

DISLIKES:  Overdramatic at times  Already know the ending  Editing
needs work

I'm probably sounding overcritical or nonsensical, but here it goes
anyway. Deepwater Horizon is at times a bit on the overdramatic side.
As I said, much of the movie will light a fire in your soul that will
have your patriotism in full force. Unfortunately, some of these
moments are a bit too fake and in your face to get my full backing,
primarily making an effort to pan on the American flag flapping in the
flames. Even the more heroic moments sometimes get a bit too corny, the
overdramatic focus on the camera amid a symphony soundtrack blaring
pride. Again, they get the message across and deliver the emotion, it
just sometimes gets a little too Hollywood for me. 

The special effects and the noble protagonist will certainly spread
suspense and awe, but it doesn't help that you know the ending. If you
paid attention to the news, you know all about what happens to the rig,
and if you choose to ignore history take a look at the trailer. The
opening sequence doesn't help things either by telling you the fate of
a certain character that further adds predictability to the mix. What
does leave in terms of suspense and surprise? Pretty much it is the
fate of the crew that held any mystery to me, and that was scarce at
times. Perhaps another minor dislike, but still one nonetheless. 

In regards to the editing, this one is a tough call to make. On the one
hand I appreciate the details they provide about the incident, from the
development of the disaster to how they faced the inferno the rig
became. And yet, I felt some of it was elaborated too much for my
liking. The build up was a little too long and drawn out, making it
slightly boring as we waited for the dirt to hit the pipe. As the oil
begins to bloom into a fountain the pace picks up, but then hits a very
slow, somewhat pointless, standstill at the aftermath of the situation.
Yes, it provides realism and rounding out of the characters, but again
is a little too extended after all the excitement. They probably could
have spared about fifteen minutes, but hey that's just me. 

THE VERDICT:

Despite this being the third historical event to get a movie this
month, Deepwater Horizon will provide the emotional thrills you want. A
fantastic CGI design that's brimming with emotion and suspense.
However, the predictability and overdramatic moments fall in line with
Hollywood's magic and takes away from the message of the movie. I have
to recommend this one for the theater though, primarily for the
technological achievements it brings. 

Overall my scores are:

Action/Drama/Thriller: 8.0 Movie Overall: 7.0
<|_=00=_|>
This was a major disappointment. Despite so much of the story depending
on technical details, the movie communicated next to nothing. In the
early scenes on the rig, people were shouting at each other, unable to
understand each other because of the background noise. However, the
audience was made to suffer the same thing, having no idea what people
were saying. It turns out they were asking if a "cement test" had been
completed, and after some time, after they were indoors and checked
with various people, they discovered that the test had not been
completed. So why was the audience made to go through the nonsense of
not hearing what people were saying? It seemed a ridiculous plot point
to portray in such an annoying way. The significance was that the test
had not been completed, not that it took a few minutes to find that
fact out because it was too noisy outside for people to talk.

Then began a number of discussions about technical matters. Little
effort was made to help the audience understand any of it. Even the few
diagrams and supposed shots of what was happening beneath the waves
were far from enlightening. I think we were just supposed to let us the
technical talk slide over us as mumbo-jumbo only engineers would
understand. For my part, I began to think I'd rather have been watching
a PBS documentary about the incident that so that I would know exactly
what happened.

Once the disaster begins, very little effort is made to continue the
narrative. There's a skeleton story of a few crew members saving each
other and trying to get off the rig, but the vast majority of the time
we just see explosions and flying debris, over and over and over, an
endless series of quick cuts, each scene lasting only a few seconds,
with lots and lots of noise, of course. Despite the action and colour
and noise, it all became a tiresome. 

At the end of the movie we see photos of the actual people involved in
the incident. None of them, of course, looked like glamorous movie
stars like Marky Marky or Kate Hudson. The roles required no great
acting talent. Did the producers really have to hire big-name Hollywood
names to fill those roles (one of the producers was Marky Mark). It
seemed to be a great opportunity to use some lesser-known actors.
<|_=00=_|>
VERY impressive: NO plot and highly misleading. Promulgates the idea
that oil comes from dead dinosaurs and gives the impression that it was
just 2 low-level BP guys on the rig that made the decision to cut costs
by skipping a cement test and failing to keep routine maintenance top
notch. No clear indictment of BP's criminal company culture of safety
negligence for the benefit of stock dividends and executive
remuneration, as established by Lord John Browne and continued by Tony
Hayward.

Much urgent and heroic pushing of buttons and switches and discussing
gizmos with no explanation of what is going on or how this drilling
target was geologically any different from all the other offshore
locations on Earth (Macondo being unlike most other drilling targets
because of extremely high fluid pressure in the formation, just below
the fracture threshold of the rock layers holding the oil in). So from
this movie, we get the news ALL oil drilling is SUPER dangerous. The
usual Hollywood negligence to script-writing. Might be meaningful to
rig workers, except I have the suspicion that anyone knowledgeable
would smell plenty of foni- baloni cooking.

And then the solemn photo-tribute to the 11 guys killed as the credits
roll. Fine, but were they brave as they died one-by-one fighting to
control the well, as the script implies? I understand that all 11 were
instantly killed in the initial blast. Of course, 99.99% of the viewers
will of have no idea that the Alexander Kjelland (1980) and Piper Alpha
(1988) rig disasters each killed an order of magnitude more.

And the only environmental representative in the movie is one bird
(who, nevertheless, gave an Oscar-worthy performance).
<|_=00=_|>
"Full of sound and fury, Signifying nothing" could be a summary of this
modern-age disaster movie. In 2010 the "Deepwater Horizon" drilling rig
off the coast of Louisiana failed in spectacular fashion, bursting into
flames and spewing millions of barrels of crude oil into the Gulf of
Mexico in what was the worst oil-spill in American history. Mark
Wahlberg plays the well-respected electrical 'Mr fixit' Mike Williams
on the rig, reporting to the Operations Manager Jimmy Harrell (Kurt
Russell). 

The exploratory project is way-behind and BP are not happy. Big-wigs
from the company add support to Donald Vidrine, the BP site leader, in
applying mounting pressure on Harrell to press on regardless without
all the necessary and time-consuming tests by Schlumberger being
completed. Rogue numbers in further tests are waved away as 'glitches'.
A familiar story of corporate greed and pressure overriding the
expert's better judgment.

When disaster strikes it strikes quickly, with some spectacular and
exciting special effects that leave the audience especially hot under
the collar. Female support is provided by the comely Andrea Fleytas
(Gina Rodriguez), given the almost impossible job of keeping the
floating bomb on station as chaos reigns about her. As an audience we
are back on familiar ground here from classic Irwin Allen disaster
movies such as "The Towering Inferno" and "The Poseidon Adventure". Who
will make it, and who won't?

A more telling question here is "Do we care?" and unfortunately for the
film, the answer is "Not really". This feels a callous thing to say
when this was a real and recent event and eleven people and  as
touchingly illustrated at the end of the film in tribute  many of them
family men with young kids, never went home again. But film-wise, we
only really get bought into the fate of Williams, whose back-story,
with cute wife (Kate Hudson) and cute daughter (Stella Allen) we get to
meet and sympathize with. 

We get a minimalist view of Fleytas's backstory, but only enough to
provide a recurring "Mustang" reference. And that's it. All the other
characters are just two-dimensional "rig crew": cannon-fodder for the
special effects team. The screenplay by Matthew Sand and Matthew
Carnahan really doesn't deliver enough heft to get us bought in.

While the special effects are good, the sound design isn't, with much
of the dialogue being incomprehensible.

All the acting is fine, with the ever-watchable John Malkovich nicely
portraying the corporate head you love to hate. Wahlberg as well
delivers enough range to make you forget in this "action mode" that he
was also in "Ted". And Rodriguez as a junior lead holds her own against
the big guns in what is a creditable performance in a big film role for
her. 

While "Lone Survivor"/"Battleship" director Peter Berg neatly provides
an insight into life on and around rigs, and (via subtitles)
descriptions of the drilling process which I found interesting, this
comes down to the sum of a tense build up, an hour of frenetic
disaster, and then a whimper of an ending. Where were some of the
dramatic scenes of conflict in the congressional hearing that the
film's opening implies might come? Where are the scenes of ecological
disaster and local financial ruin to add emotional angles to the story?
None of this is really exploited and the whole concoction comes across
a bit "meh" as a result. Not a bad film by any means. But not one I
will remember in a month or two's time.

(Agree? Disagree? For the graphical version of this review and to
comment please visit bob-the-movie-man.com. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
Peter Berg makes movies, but he also knows a lot about deep-water oil
exploration. He'd have to, considering how complicated this dangerous
activity is, and how well he handled those complexities and portrayed
that danger in his film. Berg directed "Deepwater Horizon" (PG-13,
1:47), the dramatization of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil rig explosion
which killed 11 people and resulted in the largest oil spill in the
history of the petroleum industry and the biggest environmental
disaster in U.S. history. A combination of faulty equipment and human
error caused the disaster. Methane gas escaping up the rig's pipes
enveloped it, ignited and eventually consumed the rig, which burned
until sinking into the ocean 36 hours after the initial explosion. The
titular rig's owner, Transocean, and its client, BP, traded accusations
of wrongdoing for years, while various cases worked their way through
the courts  and a lengthy environmental clean-up of the gulf coast
proceeded. No one went to jail, but, according to Wikipedia, "To date
BP's cost for the clean-up, environmental and economic damages and
penalties has reached $54bn." But that's all scientific and industrial
detail. This film is mainly a story about people.

Berg (with his screenwriters, Matthew Michael Carnahan and Michael
Sand) personalizes the story by focusing on a few key people involved
in the events depicted. Master electrician Mike Williams (played by
Mark Wahlberg, who Berg also directed in 2013's "Lone Survivor") is a
devoted family man with a loving wife (Kate Hudson) and a sweet and
precocious daughter (Stella Allen), who's very proud of her dad and his
job. Radio operator Andrea Fleytas (Gina Rodriguez) is a young, single
woman who has a steady boyfriend and loves her vintage Ford Mustang,
even if she does have trouble keeping it running. Both Mike and Andrea
work for "Mr. Jimmy" (Kurt Russell, appearing on film for the first
time with Hudson, who is his adopted daughter) is the caring, but tough
and diligent Transocean foreman on Deepwater Horizon, who often finds
himself at odds with BP's corporate representatives on the oil rig.

As Mr. Jimmy and his crew arrive at the rig for their three-week-long
turn on board, it's apparent that the departing shift (including Berg,
in a cameo role, in which he briefly talks with Russell's character)
hasn't done their due diligence in taking care of operation and safety
concerns on the rig. While entertaining two BP executives who are
visiting Deepwater Horizon (and who present him with a safety award
during a brief ceremony), Mr. Jimmy locks horns with BP liaison Donald
Vidrine (John Malkovich). Mr. Jimmy insists on a test of the pressure
entering the well from beneath the ocean floor. When the test gives
conflicting results and the results of an alternate follow-up test
complicates the situation further, the stage is set for disaster. The
rest of the film depicts that disaster with astonishing detail and
realism as everyone on that rig fights for survival and for the goal of
getting back safely to their families.

"Deepwater Horizon" is a fascinating, entertaining and inspiring take
on a real-life disaster. We get good character development and a
detailed behind-the-scenes look at the considerations, disagreements
and actions that led up to the catastrophic explosion, but there are a
couple problems with all that. Berg does a good job with a combination
of dialog, on-screen verbiage and impressive visuals to help us
understand the dynamics at play, but it almost seems like too much, and
the conversations, with a lot of technical jargon, characters talking
over each other and seeming to mumble their lines, and some with
various southern accents and some without, combine to make it difficult
to tune one's ear to the dialog and understand everything that's being
said. However, the main point of this movie is the survival story. Berg
had a realistic version of the rig built (including many working
components) for shooting. His attention to detail  in the set and in
the film's visual effects is nothing short of remarkable. What's more,
we care about the characters and the danger they're in feels real. For
excellent acting, a well-developed story and incredible visuals, you
should put this film on your horizon. "B+"
<|_=00=_|>
It's an interesting story but it just fall flat when they push that
American hero nonsense in there just because they can't paint out
America or Americans as anything but heroes even though this oil spill
was really bad.

spoilers coming up.

So at one point one crew member wanted to push a button that would seal
something, possibly preventing the spread of fire but she didn't have
authority to do so so she couldn't even though it probably would have
been the difference in life of others. So they drag the captain up to
the bridge so they could hold his busted hands and push the button with
his finger...now that's nonsense. They want to portrait these guys as
heroes, no way they did that in real life. Get off it.

So first I got salty about all those hero stuff but then I really got
sour when they all (but 11 I think) got rescued and started praying to
god. Now what the hell, there's just been a major tragedy, lives were
lost, oil would contaminate the water and they uniformly decides to
read bed time stories to pray to God. That takes the cake for me. Don't
push your God-crap on me, that also didn't happened in real life.

So great shots, good acting, interesting story but those two
ingredients destroyed this picture for me.
<|_=00=_|>
In April of 2010, an offshore drilling rig named Deepwater Horizon
exploded resulting in the worst oil spill in U. S. History. If you've
read my previous reviews about Eddie the Eagle, Steve Jobs, The Big
Short and Spotlight, you know that it's easy to get caught up in the
details of how much of the story based on actual events really happened
and how much was embellished or altered to make a Hollywood movie.
Along the way, I have made a decision to do no research into the facts
of the real-life story and just focus solely on the movie itself. I
mean, the movie makes no claims to be a historically accurate
documentary, so I shouldn't hold it to those standards. And this blog
isn't about movies being historically accurate when they don't
necessarily claim to be. It's based on two factors: how accurately the
movie is portrayed by its preview, and the likelihood of the movie
making it to my home collection. With that in mind, here's my review:

Mark Wahlberg plays Mike Williams who works on the drilling rig the
Deepwater Horizon. But that's the third thing we learn about Williams
from the preview. He's a husband and a father first. He says goodbye to
his family before being flown by helicopter with his crew to the rig.
All his daughter wants is a dinosaur fossil. All his wife (Kate Hudson)
wants is for him to return safely. Once aboard the rig, an executive
named Vidrine (John Malkovich) and others from British Petroleum are
more than anxious to commence with drilling. They skip a concrete test
and excuse a failed system test. They are already 43 days behind and
over budget and will do whatever it takes to not fall further behind
despite Mister Jimmy's (Kurt Russell) stern objections. They should
have listened to Mister Jimmy because everyone's worst nightmares
explode into reality. 

Deepwater Horizon marks the reunion of Director Peter Berg and Mark
Wahlberg who collaborated on Lone Survivor three years ago. It was
nominated for Oscars for Sound Mixing and Sound Editing and won the
Screen Actors Guild Award for best stunt team performance. While
Wahlberg has been nominated for his roles in The Fighter and The
Departed, he's one of those reliable actors who makes smart choices. If
you've liked one thing Wahlberg has done, odds are,you'll like them
all. Most of them won't get nominated for awards, but they will all be
entertaining. Berg is in the same category. He's directed some really
good movies (Lone Survivor, Battleship, Hancock,The Kingdom), but none
that would really break into a critic's top 50 list. Like Wahlberg, if
you enjoyed one of Berg's movies, odds are, you'll at least feel you
got your money's worth with all of them. 

From the preview, I said that Deepwater Horizon looked action-packed
and visually stunning, but that it also looked predictable with pieces
of the rig falling apart or blowing up blocking every turn as Williams
and the survivors try to find a way to escape. I anticipated 3 Stars
but I'm bumping that up to 4.0 Stars. It was exactly as the preview
said it would be and it was absolutely predictable; however, even
though you knew what was coming, it was so perfectly executed, it still
shocked you. From the beginning, there was no doubt about the fate of
the rig as not-so-subtle clues were dropped along the way from his
daughter's school presentation, to the tie of the executive, to the
helicopter ride to the rig. You knew it was going to happen, but when
it did, it choked the breath right out of you and didn't give it back
until the very end of the movie. It is worth the money to watch in
theatres. Though I'm not sure I'll be owning Deepwater Horizon, I will
be watching it again.
