
Since 2011's Another Earth landed at Sundance and nabbed the Special
Jury Prize, Brit Marling has quickly cemented herself as one of the
most exciting and challenging new talents. When she feels a genre
hasn't been explored to its full potential, she takes it further. When
she notices women her age are typecast in boring roles, she writes her
own. She's a visionary filmmaker with something to say and the talent
and ambition to make sure she's heard - her second collaboration with
director and co- writer Zal Batmanglij, The East, is no exception, and
is perhaps the peak of her already illustrious career so far. 

The film follows Jane Owen (Marling), an undercover security agent, as
she leaves behind her doting boyfriend (Jason Ritter) to infiltrate an
eco-terrorist group known as The East, who have publicly targeted
massive corporations for their covered-up crimes against humans and
nature. In between reports to her icy, amoral boss (Patricia Clarkson),
Jane slowly grows fascinated with the group, its morals and goals, and
its core (Alexander Skarsgard, Ellen Page, Shiloh Fernandez, Toby
Kebbell), observing with a mix of horror and infatuation as they
execute their violent "jams" on the corporations' key members. 

The East will inevitably draw comparisons to Sean Durkin's Martha Marcy
May Marlene because of the subject matter and its ingenue leading
lady.The East is not as much of a psychological profile, but there are
interesting similarities - like Durkin, Batmanglij and Marling never
really villainize or condemn their subects; instead, they make a point
of showing the East's appeal. We, the audience, begin to understand why
these troubled young people would find solace and purpose in what is
essentially a band of guerrilla terrorists, and, in turn, why Jane is
so hypnotized by them. It makes for an uncomfortably provocative watch:
as we learn more about the characters, their backgrounds, and the
corporations' crimes (which are based in fact), it's hard to determine
who the "bad guys" are. I saw the film at a festival where Batmanglij
gave a short Q&A after and he revealed that he, Marling, and Page had
lived with similar groups (without the terrorism) before and were
sympathetic with the East's cause, if not their methods. The sympathy
shows in the writing and most of the time that's a good thing, but
there are times when it gets closer to bias and muddies otherwise
brilliant storytelling - but these are blips in the overall outstanding
product. 

Marling is, as always, enigmatic and hypnotizing, but she is an
observer and lets the other characters do the talking; it takes highly
skilled actors to command empathy for villains and the cast doesn't
disappoint. Alexander Skarsgard is incredibly charismatic and
persuasive, and he fills in the blanks admirably whenever his
development is cut short. Patricia Clarkson surprises in an unusual
role for her - she hints that her character might be more evil than any
of the terrorists she is hunting. Jason Ritter and Hillary Baack are
affecting in their small roles, and Julia Ormond dominates her five
minutes of screen time - her last scene is perhaps the most haunting in
the film. Ellen Page gives a career-best performances and reminds us
that she's a force to be reckoned with if only she were given the
chance to show off more often. She commands the screen with
intimidating animosity from the second she walks on screen and has some
genuinely heartbreaking moments later on. 

In spite of occasional misfires, the screenplay is exceptional
especially in its efficiency: there is so much going on that there
isn't much time to devote to individual characters or relationships -
Marling and Ritter's suffers the most - but Marling and Batmanglij make
every second count as each line is weighted with enough subtext to tell
us the stories implicitly and thoroughly nevertheless. The major
characters are very well-drawn; even though we only get glimpses into
Skarsgard, Page and Kebbell's pasts, we feel we know them inside and
out. The film moves along at a fluid, adrenaline-pumping pace and the
tension is genuine and organic rather than forced - the audience's
investment in the story grows from affection for the characters and
connection with their ideals rather than cheap editing tricks,
manipulative music and stylized lighting or sound. Music is used so
sparsely that when The National's "About Today" plays over a silent
montage of Marling's character breaking down, its emotional weight
surprises and stuns. The ending is comparatively underwhelming, but the
overall package is one of the best, most provocative thrillers in years
and firmly establishes Batmanglij and Marling as a sensational and
important pairing.
<|_=00=_|>
I generally get tired of films pushing politics throughout their story
with all this left-wing, right-wing crap, that because of the focus of
the group of people who make that type of film, so becomes an
entanglement of an unnecessary debate with audiences and critics, that
the film itself becomes lost. The East tells its message straight and
clear and understands that most will agree with a majority of its
ideas, but never loses sight of the story and the characters its wants
to portray.

The East follows an operative for a PI firm who is handpicked to
infiltrate an extreme anarchist group who focus their sights on major
corporations for the crimes they have committed on humanity. I agree
that that basic synopsis probably will make a few shy away from seeing
it, but I don't believe anyone will come out of the film in a heated
debate with the next person on its political issues, however timely. It
has a great perspective instead on what we as individuals value most.
It never allows itself to succumb to any political wash-over, but
instead takes a side for the characters and where they stand as people
that manages to invest us in the emotional elements rather than just
straight ideals.

Brit Marling plays the operative at hand and also co-wrote the
screenplay with up-and-comer, Zal Batmanglij. They both worked together
and the equally excellent Sound of My Voice last year and its apparent
that they have continued to build their ground in their respective
fields, each finding a voice to be heard away from the mainstream flow.

The East is simply just a solid, taut and investing thriller that
values telling the story of its characters, while keeping the political
stance to the side and also having fun tangling the audience up its in
web.
<|_=00=_|>
The East is the kind of movie that makes you want to join the fight,
raise your voice and be heard.

The good. Extremely immersive. A incredible story with lots of
emotions, conflicts, opposing moralities, and a stupefying journey. It
is gripping and you will not be left unmoved.

The actors. Brit Marling and Ellen Page both give us a great
performance. I was disappointed by Alexander Skarsg√•rd, I thought that
he was the weak player of the cast. The rest of the cell was pretty
solid: Toby Kebbell, Shiloh Fernandez, Aldis Hodge, and Danielle
Macdonald. And I should mention the nice work done by Patricia Clarkson
as the director of the private security firm.

The bad. The ending is rushed. It feels like there was missing material
at the end of filming and they couldn't go back to get what they needed
and had to edit it with what they had.

The ugly. Nothing.

The result. A must see for anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie in which you debate with yourself, where would you draw
the line in search of justice against greedy corporations, if that
corporations inflicted on you the kind of damage they did on the
characters of this movie. Knowing that it was inspired by actual
actions that some corporations have taken, just makes us think even
harder on whats going on in our world. The acting is very good,
everyone plays their character very well. You just have to feel
sympathy for all of the character especially "Doc". I recommend anyone
who wants to see a movie which gives you something important to think
about to watch this. Very well done. 8 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
The east is one of those movies the just fall from the tree, and when
they fall you realize it is probably on of the best movies of the year.
The fact some eco-terroristts decide to fight against large evil
corporations(pharma,oil,coal etc.) makes the story even more
interesting. Brit Marlin does a brilliant acting, being an undercover
agent, but a human one, not one of those Hollywood
super-heroes-I-save-the-world-again. The rest of the actors have a
brilliant acting. If you want a "human" movie where intelligence and
reality clash from start to finish, this is your movie, but remember to
watch it slowly, so you can get the most of it.
<|_=00=_|>
The East: an environmentalist group following the philosophy of an eye
for an eye. The movie follows Sarah, an agent trying to infiltrate The
East. The movie was almost always exciting, but showed more of the
emotional side of the characters.

I had a lot of fun with this one. At times I found myself holding my
breath, and couldn't figure out why. The movie had a good flow to it,
with enough exciting parts to keep you from falling asleep. My biggest
complaint with the movie is it didn't go as deep into the emotional
sides of things and felt like it wanted to be more of a mainstream
movie because of it.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this movie courtesy of the San Jose Camera Cinema Club. This
is a well-acted, thought-provoking movie that asks many questions about
the balance between the excesses of corporate America and the excesses
of violent anarchist groups fighting against them. (Think Weather
Underground and the SLA.) The protagonist is a young woman working for
a top private security company in the Washington DC beltway on behalf
of those corporations. She's assigned to infiltrate an anarchist group
called "The East" to prevent damage to her company's corporate clients.
The ensuing exposition of the anarchist group's actions ("jams") makes
for a very suspenseful and credible movie with many plot twists and
turns including the ending of the movie, which is diffused with the
credits. Nothing is as it seems, just like a good spy movie ought to
be. So go see the movie and don't leave until the credits finish
rolling.
<|_=00=_|>
Certainly a good subject and a touchy one. We have several movies
treating this subject, the environment, the corruption. When I left the
cine I asked me the question : Could this be true and yes, certainly.
And that its all about, if you leave the cine and keep on thinking
about the subject and discuss it with others. I didn't knew that much
about Brit Marling and this film awakened my interest. Good acting and
she has many opportunities to go as actress, writer or director. The
movie is a must see, but ... it is not that much of a thriller, the
action scenes are rather short and don't ask that much of attention and
that is what it is meant to be, because the movie target is to show us
how Brit Marling integrates in the East, her feelings, her changes in
ideas. But also in the emotional part I find this movie rather general.
It seems that they don't want to go a bit in depth on the subject, keep
it simple for the spectator, the client. Keep it mainstream. So, it is
not an action movie, but either enters in difficult matters. The
subject is although unique and a must see. The end of the movie. Seems
that it was time to finish and so they did, a bit in a rush.
<|_=00=_|>
Without going into a lot of detail, this is the perfect movie for a
summer day. And it just keeps on growing on you. The fact that there is
another movie on this topic waiting to be made, well, that is often the
case. The really exciting part of this is that Britt is not, drum roll,
a star, but now she is. It can always be said that a film that is a
stunning star vehicle for an actress, well, that only seems to come
along every few years. And this ranks right at the top of those. Britt
is not only beautiful and charismatic, but she obviously has a deep
intelligence and creativity that is a perfect mix for this day and age.
I say -rush out a see this, do not read about it, and try to remember
one thing, great actresses are like great bottles of wine, they get
better and better for a long time. Looking at what is coming for her,
she is already very busy. And the fact that she hit this out of the
park, is a great career lift off. Brit, this is your time.
<|_=00=_|>
After watching some of the trailers for this movie, I assumed it was
going to be qua-say Fahrenheit 911 done in a dramatically acted
story... I assumed is was a film only for the 99%'er liberal democrat. 

Boy was I wrong! AND pleasantly surprised. This film is full of heart
and ugly truths delivered brilliantly and beautifully. I particularly
enjoyed the side characters as their roles were impact-full to the
overall feel one cant help but take away. This film evoked feelings of
remorse, gentleness, a sense of being cheated, love, anger and sorrow.
Yet it was uplifting and gave me a sense of hopefulness as well.

The only reason I don't give it a full 10 is because I really wanted to
see more and more at the end!! Don't get me wrong, its got a great
ending... I just wanted MORE!!!
