
Denis Villeneuve, you magnificent world wonder, you did it again!

I have seen this film three times in the cinema, in 3D, 2D and 4DX.

And one of the things i have noticed with this film, is that it's not
the time in the cinema that takes up my time, It's the hours upon hours
in between spent thinking about the film, that is the real time
consumer. This film left such a deep and profound impact, which i
cannot escape. And I've gone back to the cinema twice to be "tortured",
but it's worth it.

It's a dark, mysterious, grim, hopeless, sad and lonely film, set in a
possible near future where the human race is hanging by their
fingertips on the edge of doom. So it's quite depressing. But it's so
brilliantly put together, the closest master of cinema i think of that
has done something similar, is Stanley Kubrick.

Many Stanley Kubrick films were also "hated" by many when they first
released. "2001: A Space Odyssey" for example, which had gorgeous
visuals, but felt flat and hollow for many, even professional reviewers
back then. But what Kubrick did best with his films, was to create
afterthought. People left the cinema feeling confused and even
depressed, but the movies planted a seed which then grew for years. The
original Blade Runner also accomplished this. BR2049 is no exception,
this movie will without doubt live on to be interpreted, analyzed and
discussed for decades to come. The story continues from the original,
but stands completely on it's own, it tells a new story that directly
interlink with the original, but without trying to be a copy, it's a
natural continuation in the same universe. You don't have to see the
original Blade Runner first, though i do recommend it, see the final
cut.

BR2049 has some of the most gorgeous visuals i have ever seen, and the
cinematography is out of this world, there is literally no excuse not
to give Roger Deakins the Oscar this time. After 13 nominations he has
now knocked the ball out of the park and is this year in his own league
entirely. It's confusing to look at something so gorgeous, whilst
painting a picture of such a sad and lost world. It sort of collides
with your senses, your eyes say it's beautiful, your mind say it's
depressing. Which senses are you going to believe? What does it mean?
At least don't confuse feeling depressed as a sign that this movie is
bad, it's nothing wrong feeling depressed, take it in, embrace it. Then
you will know how it feels to be a replicant that's trapped in a caged
mind.

BR2049's story happens 30 years after the original, and there is three
short films on Youtube i recommend you watch. These short films
describes some of what happened in between 2019 and 2049. Watching them
makes it slightly easier to understand some of the things going on. But
the underlying theme is the same as it was in the original. What does
it mean to be human? What does it mean to have memories? What is a
soul? And so on.

The world has gone darker in 2049, climate is spinning out of control,
almost all animals and plants have died. People are desperate and lost,
law enforcement can barely keep anything together, and only a small
spark can set of total disaster, which is looming just around every
corner. Niander Wallace has taken over Tyrell Corp and has by the time
2049 takes place designed millions of obedient replicants that does
exactly what he tells them to do. But there is one thing Wallace has
not been able to perfect, and that's what the main story is all about,
and Wallace will do anything in his power to get his hands on the
"technology", which will result in him becoming many hundred times
richer and more powerful, the sole ruler of the entire universe. He is
so far gone in his mind by 2049 he actually believes he is god himself,
and he calls his replicants angels.

And of course he also uses replicants to do his "dirty work". In 2049
we meet his right hand "girl" Luv (Brilliantly played by Sylvia Hoeks,
if there is one actor in this movie that steal the show, it's her). Luv
is a "handygirl" so to speak, that perform whatever task she is set to
do, with no remorse. Or is that entirely true? I can't spoil anything,
but look closely at Luv's character arc. All the other actors also do
an outstanding job in this film, no bad performances, but i can't talk
about all of them due to the word limit in these reviews.

Be prepared going to see this film, it's depressing and heavy on your
mind, and it demands your full attention. It's one of those rare films
who dares to challenge the audience, and by doing so, taking a huge
risk, and a 155 million dollar risk at that. The film isn't perfect,
but it's close, and it shows the tremendous skills of Denis Villeneuve.
And those few mistakes this movie have, are probably just happy little
accidents as Rob Ross would have put it. This film is very much like a
painting, every stroke of the brush matters, and every little detail is
carefully crafted, it takes monumental skills to pull it of.

I loved this film, it's the best film I've seen all year, It is a must
see, a monumental triumph of a film that's just as good (possibly even
better) as the original and one of the best sequels of all time!

9.7/10 - Masterpiece

And BTW Villeneuve's next movie might be Dune, imagine if he brings
Deakins and the rest of this team to make that movie. Yeah, I'm going
to leave you with that thought. This is basically porn.
<|_=00=_|>
For film fanatics like myself, Blade Runner 2049 is a great film for
people to see, regardless if they've witnessed the original or not. On
the other hand, if you've never seen the original Blade Runner and are
just a casual moviegoer that have thought of the promotion for this
film as being an action-packed thrill ride, then I'd have to warn to
stay far away from this near three hour motion picture. It's very hard
to review this film without getting into specific plot details, but
that's exactly what makes this film worth the price of admission alone.
For nearly every reason a film fan should be excited about a movie,
here is why Blade Runner 2049 is a must see as soon as possible. 

Before dropping you into this world with Ryan Gosling's character,
there is text at the beginning that will fill you in on the history of
the events in the past, but even though that information is given to
you, your experience just won't be the same without having viewed the
first film multiple times and remembering the emotional core of it. Set
out on a mission to find something of meaning to the overall story,
Ryan Gosling's character (who will remain nameless for the sake of this
review) uncovers mysteries and secrets from the past, inevitably
involving Rick Deckard. Quite honestly, that's the plot in a nutshell
and the specifics of the film will lead to ruining your experience, so
let's get technical. 

If not for anything else, Blade Runner 2049 benefits from some of the
best cinematography I've laid my eyes on in years. From the addition of
the seamlessly blended visual effects, to the mind- blowing scenery
constructed by the entire art department, I have nothing but praise for
this film. Whether or not you find yourself enjoying your experience,
the visuals alone should have you applauding, due to their incredibly
detailed nature. I personally found the overall film to be magnificent,
but when certain scenes were dialogue-free and asking you to gasp at
the imagery, that's exactly what I was doing, as I feel many audiences
members will. 

Again, without giving anything away, once Rick Deckard (Harrison Ford)
enters the picture, the way both films sort of interconnect was
brilliant in my opinion. It does justice to any loose ends that fans
may have wanted in the past, as well as create a new story to gawk at
in the process. With a terrifically restrained performance by Ryan
Gosling, you'll find yourself sucked into this world as a fly on the
wall, as he uncovers these mysteries. With the addition of Harrison
Ford giving one of his most sincere and memorable performances, as well
as Ana de Armas in a role that really took me by surprise, this film
was casted to the nines from beginning to end. Some may complain about
Jared Leto and Dave Bautista not being included as much, but I felt as
though the served the story quite nicely. 

In the end, this movie aims to impress Sci-Fi fans across the world,
but I feel as though the people who will be looking back on this as a
possible classic or at least one of the best sequels ever made, are
those who've had the pleasure of indulging in the greatness that is
1982's Blade Runner. I don't say this about films very often,
especially when talking about sequels, but I haven't been this immersed
in a theatrical experience in quite some time. This is definitely a
superior film than the original, it's one of the best films of 2017,
and I'll be revisiting it very soon. Blade Runner 2049 is getting a lot
of praise and awards consideration from critics and filmgoers across
the world, and every bit of it is deserved. Aside from being very long,
this is pretty much a perfect film if you don't try to nitpick how it
connects and certain questions that aren't blatantly answered. If you
know what type of film you're in for, or you've at least seen the
original and enjoyed it, I can't recommend this movie enough.
<|_=00=_|>
Blade Runner (1982) was a happy (yet gloomy) accident, involving: a) a
young and ambitious director who fought ferociously with studio
executives in order for them to let him fulfill his vision; b) a rising
blockbuster star who wanted to prove he can also act in a serious
movie; c) a crazy Dutch actor who decided to change the script and
improvise one of the most memorable monologues in film history; d) a
bunch of talented artists who wanted to make a movie that would look
and sound different from anything else we had seen before. And most of
all, e) a post-Vietnam turbulent era when Hollywood rebels like
Coppola, Scorsese and Cimino were audaciously attempting to reinvent
the language of cinema, telling stories that mattered and not caring at
all about target audiences and marketing trends. As a result, Blade
Runner was a box office failure that slowly became a legend, breaking
stereotypes like "good guy kills bad guy at the end" and dealing with
existential agony on an almost metaphysical level; always within the
context of a gritty corporate dystopia in the near future.

Blade Runner 2049 is none of these things. On the contrary, it's the
flawed triumph of a next generation of studio executives, who control
the creative process by paying millions to the industry's best of the
best, providing they will make something that will take advantage of a
successful brand name in order to bring profits to shareholders. If
there is one word to describe this movie, it's "replicant". Not the
kind of replicant who realizes that "all those moments will be lost in
time, like tears in rain" as he dies, but a sleek, expensive and
obedient skin-job that will try to entertain you and if it succeeds
will return as a sequel that will eventually become yet another
franchise. I spent 160 minutes of my life watching a pleasant and
perfectly constructed piece of nothing, and I didn't care for a moment
about any of the characters or a storyline that was designed without
the intention to question and redefine a single thing. All its moments
have already been lost in my memory, while the original Blade Runner
remains vivid in my mind, as if I only saw it yesterday.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't believe the lying shills rating this a ten out of ten. The
original Blade Runner is a masterpiece. This film is not. It only
deserves a six, but I loved the original so I gave it a seven. My
review will compare both films and it contains **spoilers**.

First up its pacing. This film is actually much slower than the
original, adding up to two hours and forty three minutes of mind
numbing boredom. I love slow paced films provided there's enough drama
and tension. The first Blade Runner film has long pauses, but its
justified. The silence swells toward sudden violence or it occurs
because a character is gnawing over a great line of dialog they've just
heard or are about to express. So what makes a slow paced film
entertaining? The solution is information provided at the right time.

The first film immediately tells us that replicants are murderous
outlaws. We see one commit murder. Some are hiding here on Earth in Los
Angeles and Dekkard is forced to detect and kill them. All that
information is given to the audience within the first few minutes. So
when Dekkard is wandering through crowded streets of futuristic LA, we
the audience are afraid for him, because any one of them could be a
murderous replicant. Dear Ridley Scott repeat after me: Information
creates tension.

This newer film instead begins with long drawn out scenes of dull
aimless searching and investigating. Since no villain shows up until
the last hour, there's no reason for the hero to actually hurry or feel
afraid. When the boring pace finally speeds up toward the end, you're
so bored out of your skull, you forgot why anyone is doing anything and
you no longer care or even notice what the film thinks is a stunning
twist.

Those shill reviewers are glowing about its photography. Compared to
its budget, the photography is below standard. There are rare nice
moments. Seeing the fusion powered spinners (those flying cars) again
was nice nostalgia, but far too many albeit pretty shots of -- nothing
happening -- rendered the plot all the more irrelevant.

Now for the production design. The indoor set designs were poor,
telling us very little about the world this film is set in. The
"production value" looks cheap. I don't mean that in a cheap sleazy
film noir way (no that would have been cool), I mean that I don't know
where they spent the 185million budget, because only a fraction of that
was spent on the sets. Two things did work. The voice comp device has
been updated reminiscent of 1984 (the Orwell film starring John Hurt)
and there is a Total Recall (the original not the remake) style
artificial Female hologram character that is programmed to love K (Ryan
Gosling). Interesting, but hardly ground breaking, while the original
film was ground breaking in too many ways to mention here. The close up
long lens shots in the original made the grimy futuristic streets of
Los Angeles really look and feel like a crowded claustrophobic sleazy
poverty stricken hellhole. Such a lens also gives size to any character
in the foreground making Ford look all the more epic.

This film used wider lenses and so the pent up tension of the original
street scenes is non existent. In fact very rarely does it venture
outside into the streets, so that we cannot breathe in the human polity
as easily as we did in the original. The original film had real light
emanating from miniature buildings, vehicles and advertising. I'm sorry
but computer generated light just doesn't behave like real light does.
Real light goes where it wants. The human eye cannot be fooled. Syd
Mead is a genius. But looking at this film makes me think he wasn't
given the power he needed to bring out this film's potential. It
actually looks like some hack is trying to copy him. This makes me feel
sad to write that. His work on Elysium (2013) was far superior.

And now the acting. Gosling plays it straight (and glum) as he did in
the pretty to look at but boring Bangkok crime flick Only God Forgives.
There is a plot reason for this, but his dull acting compounds this
movie's languid pace. There's not enough of Harrison Ford, who only
shows up in the last hour (maybe less?). Jared Leto's monologues are
just awful. Its not his fault. He's miscast and badly written.

Like Mead, Philip K Dick is a genius too, both films are inspired by
his literary masterwork "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep". This
film didn't delve deep enough, barely scratching the intellectual
surface. Since many of his concepts are incredibly visually rich that
just compounds the cinematic failure here. 

Should you go and see this? If you're a fan of the original, I think
you should. The story ends in a way that sets things up for another
Blade Runner movie which I hope will actually be entertaining. 

This film is meant to be a science fiction noir film, but it has little
of the intelligence we expect from science fiction and none of the
crime solving tension that is required of film noir. It lacked the
brutal immediacy of the original nexus 6 villains the first one had in
spades. It lacked the tense cat and mouse hunting game that made the
original so intense, a race where the lead changed more than once. It
just isn't as clever as its, at times pretty visuals and constantly
obnoxious soundtrack, pretends it to be.

Instead we get a self important bloated fatware art-house snoozefest
that is bleak, boring and about as intellectually deep as counterfeit
artificial snake skin.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying that I am a huge Denis Villeneuve fan and
absolutely love every movie he made, from his breakthrough drama
'Incendies' to the action thriller 'Sicario'. But when I learned that
he was going to make a sequel to Ridley Scott's iconic Blade Runner I
had mixed feelings. Would he be able to live up to the expectations and
make a sequel that could measure itself with the original? For this
reason, I went into the cinema thinking ''This will be a great movie, I
am a Villeneuve fan so I have to like it'' but that was a mistake, for
once I stopped expecting and just started experiencing the film, I was
enchanted by all of its visual beauty. I was wrong to doubt Villeneuve;
his 'Blade Runner 2049' even succeeds in transcending in some ways the
original masterpiece, especially as a visual experience. 

The bleak dystopian future Scott so perfectly created is even more
beautiful in Villeneuve's 2049, for which a lot of credit has to be
given to the brilliant director of photography Roger Deakins, who has
made one of his best works (which says a lot). Every shot is brilliant,
I loved every single frame and I cannot imagine that he wouldn't get
nominated and win an Oscar for this phenomenal work. But also a big
thumbs up has to be given to the entire effects team, for Deakins
didn't do it all on his own. 

Deakins isn't the only mastermind at work, for the score is also
beautifully done. When I learned that composer Jóhann Jóhannsson
(someone who has collaborated multiple times with Villeneuve and did
most of the scores for his movies) got fired I was surprised;
Jóhannsson has always delivered great work, but according to
Villeneuve, his score ''wasn't the right one'' for this movie for it
didn't ''resemble Vangelis soundtrack for Blade Runner'' quite enough.
So he got replaced by probably the best man in the business nowadays;
Hans Zimmer. And as we are used to with the German composer, this was
once again sublime and a great homage to the original. Zimmer's 2049
score can be compared to his Dunkirk score, in a way that it unsettles
us from the first chord and just as the Second World War movie, it
keeps us on the edges of ours seats, especially during the last hour.

As for the people who are actually situated in front of the camera,
they all play their parts very well. I was especially happy that Ryan
Gosling's agent K was indeed the leading man and he did a very good
job. I was slightly concerned that it would mostly be about Harrison
Ford's Deckard, but luckily that wasn't the case. Nevertheless, Ford
gives one of his best performances in years and after all the iconic
roles he played once again in recent years (Han Solo, Indiana Jones)
this is by far the best. The smaller but important roles are also
noteworthy; Robin Wright's Lieutenant Joshi makes a fierce and
convincing police chief, while the villain duo Jared Leto's Neander
Wallace as the evil head of a corporation at the top of the new world
order and his frightening hit-woman Luv (Sylvia Hoeks) are also very
impressive. Last but not least, Ana de Armas is also very good as Joi,
K's girlfriend (even if she does remind me a lot of Scarlet Johansson
in 'Her' and slightly of Alicia Vikander in 'Ex Machina', but maybe
that's something Villeneuve did that on purpose and wanted to pay
homage to these recent but also very good science-fiction movies).

That said, Villeneuve will receive most of the credit, as he should.
For unlike most of Hollywood's blockbusters nowadays, he doesn't simply
deliver us a spectacle with some nice effects or a reboot of the
original, but he picks up the threads where Scott left, which was a
monumental task, for the original 'Blade Runner' is one of the most
impressive and iconic movies ever made. 2049 continues on the same
topics raised by the original, making the sequel worth the 35-year long
wait; it goes further with what was proposed in the first installment,
enriching one another. It is possible that one day a third installment
could be made, but that is only if any director will ever find the
courage to make another 'Blade Runner', for the bar is raised
incredibly high. I believe that in time, 'Blade Runner 2049' will just
as the original one, grow into a cult movie, and rightfully so, for it
is its own movie, but, just as the original, a visually remarkable,
achingly human sci-fi masterpiece. 

I am not going to say more about it, because the studio has been
unusually insistent in its pleas to critics and the first movie viewers
not to reveal any plot points, but I am glad they did. Even if I could
go on and on about the movie and the difference between replicants and
humans (or is there really much of a difference, after all?) the less
you know the better, because 2049 feels at its best when it surprises
(which is one of Villeneuve's greatest strengths). This is a movie best
experienced on the biggest screen in your cinema; trust me, it will be
worth your while. As for me, I will most likely try and make some free
time in my schedule for the coming days, 'cause I want to go the cinema
again, guess what I'm gonna watch...
<|_=00=_|>
In 1982 I was deeply excited about the prospect of seeing "Blade
Runner," and can remember applying for a chance to see an advance
showing in Sacramento. From the start it seemed obvious that it was a
special film--clouded in controversy and mystery. Later I acquired my
much-viewed VHS copy, with all the eye-gouging, nail-puncturing
violence. Later still the Internet provided background information as,
eventually, did articles plus a comprehensive book by Paul M. Sammon.
In short, I am a fan, and was eagerly anticipating the sequel.

So, it was with disappointment that I left an October 6, 2017 showing
"Blade Runner 2049." Overly long, boring, poorly paced, and confusing
were my initial impressions, though admittedly it was beautifully
filmed (potential Oscar nomination in cinematography?).

I appreciated the many (too many?) subtle and not-so-subtle nods to the
original film, the effort to build on the "Blade Runner" universe, and
efforts by writers, directors, and actors to bring the story to life.
But there were just too many scenes that should have been reduced in
length from 25-50% of their run time. Such excess in a film is, to me,
almost always a fatal flaw. And some scenes (e.g., where characters
"Joi" and "Mariette" merge to make love to "K") could have been cut
altogether, I feel, without harming the story.

The acting was satisfactory or better, for the most part, as one would
expect from the level of supporting talent.* However, I have knowingly
seen two pictures starring Ryan Gosling2016's "La La Land" and now
thisand in both he is bland and wooden. Despite the fact that "2049's"
"K" is SUPPOSED to be a self-controlled, artificial humanoid, I wonder
if it is just Gosling's natural on- (and off-) screen persona. And
frankly, Harrison Ford's "Deckard" just did not work for me.
Sacrilegious, I know; but true. I blame this on two factors.

First, Ford appears (too) late in the movie, by which time I was
already exhausted by tedium. Second, for a character without
appearance-changing makeup, a dramatic accent, say, or pronounced
behavioral distinctions, it is hard not to just see Harrison Ford.
(Kind of like Robert Redford miscast in 1985's "Out of Africa.") Oh,
it's (old) Harrison Ford again. Sorry HF fans everywhere.

And another thing; due to poor direction, they included "Admiral
William Adama" (Edward James Olmos) from TV's "Battlestar Galactica,"
and not "Gaff" (also Olmos), in a too brief cameo. (Listen to "Gaff" in
the 1982 original. Totally different voicing.)

Like most films, it suffered from its share of "Oh, come on!" moments.
Why would 6-foot "K" allow 6-foot-6 Dave Bautista's imposing "Sapper
Morton" to make the first move (and thus begin the accumulation of a
ridiculous amount of damage, most of it unnecessary, sustained by "K"
throughout the story)? Because that's what movie detectives do. I must
say, "K" apparently likes to pass violently through solid walls (a nod
to Rutger Hauer's "Roy Batty" head in the original, I take it).

Almost all action-adventure films are silly in hindsight and full of
movie plot clichés"Blade Runner 20149" is no exception. But the test
of a good movie is whether the story flows at a pace that makes
audiences subconsciously accept and even relish these otherwise
nonsensical encumbrances (see 1999's "The Matrix"). For my part I was
less inclined to give "2049" a pass on the silliness due to its
plodding nature.

Ridley Scott is prominently associated with both the recent "Alien" and
Blade Runner" franchises, and has promised multiple sequels. Do we want
this? Is state-of-the-art movie-making worth either ridiculously poor
stories (the "Alien" franchise) or bad plotting and editing ("Blade
Runner 2049")? It's admittedly hard to make a good movie, but Scott and
his people are paid a LOT of money to do so. Check Scott's IMDb
filmography. Can any mortal be involved first-hand in that many
projects? As with Stephen King, maybe it's time to pare down the
quantity and re-focus on the quality? Just saying

In conclusion, my disappointment focused primarily on the script and
editing.**

Some recommendations to potential viewers: First, if you plan to see
"Blade Runner 2049" it will help to see one of 37 versions (e.g.,
voice-over or no voice-over?; graphic violence shots or not?) of the
original 1982 film beforehand. Second, maybe wait to watch the movie
digitally, so that you can re-play key scenes and increase volume on
important dialogue. In the theater I kept mentally reaching for a
non-existent remote control. Third, (after Recommendation One) if like
me you hold the original picture in deep admiration as a flawed but
intriguing analog masterpiece of SF movie-making, consider skipping
this sequel altogether. But I imagine that warning will fall on deaf
ears.

_____

* Because of the look and feel of two female characters in the film, I
wonder if actresses Felicity Jones ("Rogue One") and Tatiana Maslany
("Orphan Black") were originally considered for the parts eventually
played by Ana de Armas (companion hologram "Joi") and Sylvia Hoeks
(deadly replicant "Luv"). While watching the trailer footage, I
originally mistook those two characters for actresses Jones and
Maslany. Their doppelgangers did just fine, though. Hoeks' "Luv" is
particularly chilling.

** Oh, and the music! Not so good. Too often I was aware of background
music--that by itself is not a good thing--and its shortcomings. So
much so that by the end of "2049," where original "Blade Runner" music
("Tears in the Rain," I think) is (finally) used, it left me with mixed
feelings. First, thank god! Second, where was that musical excellence
during the rest of the film? Music can make or break a film, and is
incredibly important. Few excellent films have poor musical
soundtracks. Unfortunately, "Blade Runner 2049" is not an exception to
that guideline.
<|_=00=_|>
Blade Runner 2049 is the sequel to the 1982 sci-fi classic Blade
Runner. Directed by Denis Villeneuve (Arrival, Sicario) and once again
based on Philip K. Dick's novel Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?,
it successfully recaptures just about everything excellent about the
original and is a superb sequel to one of the greatest and most
important science fiction films of all time.

Thirty years after the events of the first film, LAPD Officer K (Ryan
Gosling) works as a Blade Runner, retiring old rogue replicants
(artificial humans) hiding out around the Los Angeles area. One day
while on a job, K discovers a long buried secret in the yard of a
replicant which leads him on a journey to track down former Blade
Runner Rick Deckard (Harrison Ford), who has been missing for decades.

Featuring amazing visuals and some of the most philosophical and
thought-provoking themes since the original, Blade Runner 2049 is a
masterpiece of science fiction and is possibly one of the greatest
sequels ever made. I was transfixed the entire time, to the point where
I felt that even blinking would cause me to miss something I wanted to
see. The cast was brilliant as well, especially Ryan Gosling, who does
a fantastic job carrying the film as its lead actor. However, perhaps
best of all, is that seeing the original is not a requirement to fully
understand everything that is going on, although it would probably
still help to have done so beforehand. I'm almost certain that author
Philip K. Dick would be proud of this film. I know I am.

I rate it a very high 9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I never was one of those people asking for a Blade Runner sequel. Now
that Blade Runner 2049 is out, my position still stands. This film is
simply a massive letdown and nothing more.

The year is 2049 and the world has grown in technology, but not
humanity. Ryan Gosling plays K, a Blade Runner (a futuristic cop)
tasked with tracking down the last of the Replicants-androids that look
like humans. Knowing that he himself is a replicant, he goes on a
journey of his own when he finds a box containing the bones of a
Replicant who gave birth to a child and is tasked with finding the
child. Little does he know that the new head of the Tyrell Corporation
that makes the Replicants, Mr. Wallace (Jared Leto), plans to use the
missing child for his own purposes and kill K if he has to.

My main problem with the film is that it was unforgivably boring. The
film is two hours and forty-five minutes long, which is already enough
to test one's patience (and bladder), but it feels so deliberately
paced; the characters almost always move so slow, that it feels like
the filmmakers thought that it was the best way to pad out the running
time, despite having not enough material to justify it.

The performances range from great to laughable. Harrison Ford is hardly
in the movie, and his inclusion is clearly a marketing ploy, but he
gives the best performance in his brief running time and he feels like
a continuation of his character from the original, Deckard, in a world
where things have just gotten worse. Gosling isn't bad as K, and his
stone-face actually is pretty effective in a couple of scenes, but
Rutger Hauer in the original gave his Replicant character more of a
personality. Leto is trying and failing to bring a degree of menace as
the villain, and his female Replicant sidekick competes with him in the
field of phoning it in.

What else shocked me was how unsubtle the film was. The original was
not only a futuristic crime noir that had Harrison Ford's Deckard
chasing down androids, but also a personal journey involving himself
and Rutger Hauer as the villain that involved trying to find a degree
of humanity in such a futuristic world, and that maybe, Deckard is a
replicant himself. Here, the story is mainly of Gosling trying to come
to terms with the fact that he is a Replicant and what it means in
terms of his humanity. Whereas in the original, there were subtle
signs, images, and bits of dialogue that hinted at Deckard's purpose in
the original, everything is spelled out for the audience to the point
that old bits of dialogue are repeated thrice at important moments. It
doesn't respect the audience's intelligence at all. The first and final
thirds of the film are mainly filled with dialogue that is basically
speeches that preach ideas about conflict and the ethics of machines,
but hardly any of it is explored in an interesting fashion. What's
worse, the film feels so empty and devoid that for a time, I forgot
what K's objective was.

What I will say is that the cinematography is beautiful. There are a
lot of colorful images with ancient ruins and futuristic tech in the
background and foreground that could easily pass as being part of an
art gallery. The only downside is that there is too much gray in some
shots and it feels too clean compared to the original.

Why Warner Brothers and Sony wasted their time making this film, I have
no clue. Maybe it was Ridley Scott's fault. After being unimpressed
with his Alien: Covenant earlier this year (and was also quite the
snooze-fest), watching this only proved to me further that Scott just
doesn't care about good filmmaking anymore. Denis Villeneuve is clearly
an ambitious director, but his style didn't feel completely right for
this film. Clearly, in a film that tries so desperately to say much
more humanity than its predecessor, it comes out feeling empty and
feels less human than the original did.

P.S. A lot of people have accused me of being too shallow and wanting
this film to be more action packed. I do not have that mindset. I enjoy
films that take their time as much as the next film enthusiast, but
this one just didn't do enough to justify what it was aiming for. I'm
not ashamed in expressing my opinion. Just let me be clear on
something: going at a slow, deliberate pace and speaking lines of
preachy dialogue does not, I repeat, does not equal intelligence. The
positive reviews baffle me, especially on Rotten Tomatoes. Sony owns
the company, which leads me to think that maybe it bribed more than a
few critics in the hopes that more people would see it. Clearly, that
is backfiring and I'm happy that people are rejecting it.
<|_=00=_|>
The original Blade Runner is one of my favourite films so I was really
looking forward to this one. What a disappointment. If I wasn't in the
company of others I would of walked out early. I left the cinema
feeling annoyed that I had to sit through this overlong monotonous
film. The storyline is dragged out with the main character just going
from place to place to investigate something like in a video game. At
the beginning he is in a fight scene and you find out he is basically
indestructible. The replicants are now terminators. This leaves out any
suspense that he is in danger. The first film was kind of believable,
the city was overcrowded and the building were decaying - it had
atmosphere. This one looked like a more modern city with a lot of
emptiness. The technology has advanced so much that he now has a solid
light fully realistic AI holographic companion that operates from a
small device he can keep in his pocket. If you think about it why are
they so desperate to increase replicant slave labour production when
they are capable of building AI robots that can be enveloped with
holographic light to look human. They still have the blurry 1950 TV
quality monitors to echo the first film but the supposed technology
jump does not make sense. The music by Vangelis was one of the most
important parts of the original. He conveyed through the use of
synthesisers and traditional instruments a sense of awe and wonder,
beauty and the sadness of a dystopian world. Johann Johannsson was
originally commissioned to score the film and I think he would of done
a great job but they decided for some reason it was not Hollywood
sounding enough so they bought in Hans Zimmer. What a disaster. It
might as well be the music from Batman VS Alien. Just lots of loud
noise. The original was a box office failure that became a cult
classic. This is just a failure.
<|_=00=_|>
I've only seen the original Blade Runner once and it was a long time
ago. I liked it but I just haven't got around to revisiting it. I
mention this because even though I'm not a die-hard fan of Blade
Runner, I still found the plot of 2049 engrossing. It's a well put
together mystery, I found that they constantly took the plot in
unexpected directions and other than the trailer spoiling the return of
Deckard, I was always excited about what was going to happen next. The
movie pulls an excellent bait and switch at the end that really
surprised me. They made the right decision to not repeat the formula of
the first one and take the story to a new place. They also create some
compelling subplots which is something that few movies get right.

The biggest star of this movie is the cinematography and the excellent
work of Roger Deakins. The original was noteworthy with the special
environment that Ridley Scott and his creative team brought to the
screen. That was continued here if not improved upon. The look of L.A.
in 2049 they decided to go with isn't completely distinct but it was a
little more understated (I'd compare it to the 2017 Ghost in the Shell
but less fantastical). My favourite scene might have been a shootout in
a defunct club where the lighting and the background show are turning
on and off. I don't hesitate to praise when a movie looks good but this
is an exemplary example of using visuals and atmosphere to help build
on a strong story.

Blade Runner 2049 returns very few of the characters from the original
film but they manage to breathe life into this movie through the new
ones they created. Officer K isn't the most lively protagonist but he
gets an eye-opening character arc that kept me involved. Deckard
doesn't appear till later in the movie but he remains interesting and
what they decide to do with him makes his appearance worthwhile. I also
really liked some of the smaller supporting characters. Sapper really
helps kick off the movie, what Joi represents is extremely emotional
and Mariette is so mysterious that her involvement brings up more and
more questions. Add in that Niander Wallace and Luv make for pretty
menacing villains and you have a pretty well-rounded and fascinating
script.

I don't think that the actors/actresses will be the focal point of the
awards attention that this movie will get but that doesn't mean there
aren't exemplary performances. Gosling is good as K, he's deliberately
robotic and he accomplishes a lot through his subtlety. Harrison Ford
isn't in the movie as much as I wanted him to be (he's still one of my
all-time favourite actors) but he holds up his end. He works with
Gosling well and they have a solid rapport. Surprisingly, I really
liked Sylvia Hoeks. She stole a lot of her scenes and I thought she was
great even acting against a stacked cast. Dave Bautista showed he has a
lot more range than people give him credit for. Jared Leto is in a very
Jared Leto role (deliberately weird and hard to understand) but he does
it well and although he might be a little creepy, the guy is still a
great actor. I also want to credit Ana de Armas, she was distinctly
warm and she showed a lot more emotion than I had seen from her
previously.

There were points in this movie I could have rated this a 9/10 but some
small things that I had to dock the movie for. Even with a compelling
story, the movie has such a long run time that it couldn't help but
drag. There are certain scenes where the movie wants you to really
drink in the environment but they could have edited it a little
tighter. They also couldn't help but lose me at points through how much
artistic flair the utilize. Villenueve is an authority in this area and
while I appreciate an artistic approach to this science fiction tale,
for me they overdid it a little.

I was surprised how much I ended up liking Blade Runner 2049. I think
if you're a big fan of the original, you'll love this to bits. This is
successful in bringing in the uninitiated but I think fans will enjoy
this even more. I haven't been on board for all of Villenueve's films
but this is a good combination of his artistic style with enough of a
commercial element for the masses. I'd give this somewhere between an
8-9 but with the extremely long run time, I'll give this an 8/10.
