
"To Rome with Love" is a fantasy film; a comedy about people living out
their fantasies. The great thing about it is that it's subtle enough
that you don't recognize the fantasy element in all of the
relationships until later on in the film. The obvious one is when
native Roman, Leopoldo Pisanello (Roberto Benigni), becomes a celebrity
over night. "It's better to be a celebrity than an unknown." And as
Benigni shows, way funnier too.

It's the type of film where everybody gets to see themselves as famous,
or supremely interesting, or a guiding angel, or married to a hooker,
or the object of a movie star's affections, or on a romantic rendezvous
with a thief, or having the ability to change the world with one simple
idea. It will take you to wherever your heart desires. And then you'll
realize why it's often advised to think with your brain rather than
with your heart.

Half Italian and half English, we follow two relationships involving
Romans and two relationships with Americans in Rome. A young, Italian,
married couple get separated and the young man finds himself living out
every other young man's fantasies while the young woman finds herself
living out her own fantasies.

Hayley (Alison Pill), a New Yorker transplanted in Rome, falls in love
and gets engaged to a successful Roman lawyer. Her parents (Woody Allen
and Judy Davis) make the trek across the ocean to meet their in-laws.
But Allen's obsession with death and equating retirement with death
causes him to create a national disaster (or success story, depending
on how you look at it).

Jack (Jesse Eisenberg) is an American architect living in Rome with his
girlfriend. First he meets his architecture idol, John (Alec Baldwin),
who sees Jack as the younger version of himself. Or more accurately,
Jack sees John as the older version of himself (the joke works better
that way). Then Jack meets Monica (Ellen Page) who is his girlfriend's
best friend and is the object of all men's fantasies.

Page also gets to play the role of the self-obsessed,
pseudo-intellectual  commonly referred to as "the pedantic one" in
most Woody Allen movies. Other than Allen himself, Eisenberg and
Baldwin play a sort of tag-team version of the self-deprecating,
neurotic hero, although this time with a touch of confidence.

Confidence is not to be confused with optimism because as funny as "To
Rome with Love" is, it also has Allen's usual undertone of pessimism.
Death is going to come sooner than you would like, but not soon enough.
And even if you do get to live out your heart's fantasies, they may not
lead to everything that you hoped for. This film is the comedy version
of death and negativity, and can provide you with the simple joys in
life.
<|_=00=_|>
Although nowhere near Woody Allen's great films like Annie Hall,
Manhattan, Hannah and her Sisters and Midnight in Paris, To Rome with
Love is still a charming, and entertaining film. Some have called the
film, Woody Allen's worst film, and I simply don't agree. (His worse
film is Scoop) The whole cast works nicely and all the performances are
all around great. My favorite being Judy Davis, she stole the show for
me. 

I found some of the scenes rushed and haphazardly constructed and some
of the dialogue overwritten and under-rehearsed. The film at times,
felt very lazy and a bit fake, at times. At 112 Mimutes, To Rome with
Love is a good 20 minutes longer than most Woody Allen films, and it
shows. The movie was overlong and a bit boring at times. There weren't
enough charming and funny scenes to compensate for it's running time.
Some scenes should've definitely been cut. Woody Allen's latest effort
is flawed, but definitely not a bad film, as most are saying. 

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
While not great Woody Allen  it's neither profound, moving nor funny
enough for that title, it is quite enjoyable. 

The film is made up of four intercut short stories, that share little
other than the fact they're set in Rome. Some have fantasy elements,
some are more absurdist, others more straightforward character farce.

But somehow, though they don't make much of a logical grouping, the
whole thing is lighthearted and fun enough that it seems grumpy to pick
on it. 

Sure some jokes fall flat and some ideas seem unfulfilled, but a lot of
it is wonderfully acted and cleverly written. And at a time when so
many comedies are aimed only at 15 year olds, even 2nd tier Woody,
simply telling playfully comic tales, is a welcome sight.
<|_=00=_|>
Rome must be one of the most photogenic cities in the world, no matter
how you look at it or who is looking. The Rome of Fellini with all its
magic corners or Pasolini's Rome with its poetic darkness. Woody
Allen's Rome is pure postcard glitter. What a let down. This is Allen's
weakest script so far. Seems undecided and downright lazy. The tribute
to Fellini's "The White Sheik" verges on theft and the Italian actors
delivering their lines in Italian look and sound as participants of a
provincial amateur hour. Even Oscar winner Roberto Benigni gives a pale
and tired life to a thoroughly underwritten character. Allen himself is
very good as is Judy Davis as his wife. But, I wonder what was in the
writer/director's mind. I believe that in Allen's filmography from best
to worst, To Rome With Love will appear very near the bottom. But,
let's not despair, the master is already prepping his next flick.
<|_=00=_|>
As time passes Woody Allen is able to transform himself and his movies.
Don't get me wrong, it is obvious that we are seeing a Woody Allen film
from the initial credits, but he still can surprise us. 

We see different stories through out the film. Some show aspects of the
Italian lifestyle and culture, presented from a beautiful Rome; that
city that Allen wants to present to us, his Rome. But other stories
present again the issues that have been important to him, those
problems that for centuries have raised for humankind: love,
infidelity, death, success, fame, happiness; those issues that Allen
simply loves to discuss. 

The cast is charming and I want to highlight a sincere Roberto Benigni;
Jesse Eisenberg, that resembles perfectly the young Woody Allen; and
the beautiful and talented Ellen Page, with a powerful character that
makes you impossible not to fall in love with her.

I have the huge bias of been a Woody Allen fan and that is probably why
I enjoyed so much this movie. It is thrilling to see him acting again.
See all that neurosis again in the big screen. This movie surprises,
can be as surreal as Buñuel would be and also as real as Allen is with
daily problematics.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody Allen's seventh postcard from Europe lacks enough postage. It
should be rubber-stamped "Return to Sender." This is undoubtedly the
most disappointing of all his films set in Europe.

Following a lifetime spent channeling New York's neurotic side,
creating some of the most memorable roles in modern film history (Annie
Hall, Leonard Zelig, Danny Rose, and of course  Allen himself), the
76-year-old film legend abruptly departed his familiar Manhattan
backdrop in 2004, taking his introspective wit across the Atlantic,
initially to London, then Barcelona, followed by Paris, and now Rome.

His latest release To Rome with Love has all the ingredients of yet
another tasty Allen stew. But in the end, all we sample is watered-down
broth, poorly seasoned, with stale recollections of the spicy flavors
that made Match Point, Vicky Cristina Barcelona, and Midnight in Paris
so thoroughly original and enjoyable.

To be fair to Allen, he's coming off his biggest commercial success
ever, which is a hard act to follow. Since his heyday as a
writer-director-star during the 1970s, Allen's films haven't performed
particularly well at the box office. But like summer stock theater,
they tend to make just enough money to keep Allen atop the list of
directors most actors long to work with. For that reason, Allen pretty
much gets his pick of the litter as to who he casts in his films, and
often writes characters perfectly suited to the typecasting.

Indeed for Allen, the blockbuster 2011 hit Midnight in Paris was tough
to match  either critically or commercially. But not only does To Rome
with Love fall far short, it doesn't even belong on the same continent.

The plot is very familiar territory for fans of Allen's films. Three
stories are supposedly entwined, full of quirky characters, ultimately
providing audiences with humor, greater understanding, and ultimately--
revelation. That was supposed to be recipe.

Trouble is, this time around none of the stories Allen has penned are
particularly interesting or memorable. Predictably, Allen does manage
to steal one segment, playing a bored American retiree who is
accompanying his wife to Italy. They are scheduled to meet their
daughter's soon-to-be husband, and family. As one can imagine, the
interaction between Allen and the non-English speaking Italian family
has its moments. The story blossoms when Allen unexpectedly discovers
the Italian father can sing like Caruso. But the high point of this
operatic mini-drama becomes too forced, testing the audience's patience
to say nothing of straining credibility.

In the second story, Jesse Eisenberg (The Social Network) plays an
American student living in Rome along with his girlfriend. When the
girlfriend invites "Monica" to pay a visit, played wonderfully by Ellen
Page (Juno), Eisenberg becomes infatuated with the new house guest and
the fireworks begin. The always reliable Alec Baldwin, perfectly cast
as the debonair know-it-all, oddly provides a voice of reason during
Eisenberg's degenerative courtship, hoping to stop his protégé from
making a complete fool of himself.

The final story seems both camp and patronizing, cookie-cutting
arguably the only Italian actor widely recognizable to American
audiences (Roberto Benigni -- Life is Beautiful) as the warm roasting
chestnut to provide some wildly-exaggerated depiction of the "average"
Italian. This story gets old quick, and drags down what would otherwise
be at least a mildly entertaining film.

Italy should be perfect canon fodder for Allen's innumerable
idiosyncrasies. A nation of wildly-gesturing people full of passion
about everything -- art, soccer, food, whatever -- seems the perfect
foil for all of Allen's self-centered New Yorkers. Instead, the
opportunity is wasted. The film might as well have been shot in
Cleveland.

Without giving away too much, there's no payoff in the end. For
audiences expecting to see the combustible explosion during the final
climactic scene from Allen's vast cinematic laboratory, we are left
wondering why any of this mattered.

And that's the trouble  it didn't.

In his masterful 47-year film career, Allen rarely delivers a product
that seems so unfinished. It's as though Allen wrote a (somewhat
decent) first draft, and then suddenly called in the cameras to start
shooting. Allen knows very well that greatness comes through time and
repetition.

Like fine wine, this one needed to age a bit. It was served far too
early. And like so many bad Chiantis, the tannins were overwhelming to
the point of being undrinkable.
<|_=00=_|>
"To Rome with Love" is a less successful movie than "Midnight in
Paris", which is a little masterpiece, even though it had a much more
ambitious goal.

Stories and characters are enjoyable (apart from Benigni, who in the
end is less overacting than usual), but the flaw is in the background.
Italy, as it is represented, is neither present Italy nor past,
probably more similar to the one represented in the movies of the 50s
or 60s . 

Woody Allen's movie is a sincere tribute to Rome as seen in the history
of cinema. However, this 'golden age' portrait, if compared to the
present, seems alienating and little plausible: he might as well have
done a costume film...

Some highlights are particularly appreciated though: first of all Alec
Baldwin's character, then Penelope Cruz's, the "newly-weds story"
(which was sufficient by itself to give a shade of Italian Comedy,)and
finally the splendid photography. But on the other hand the movie is
filled with a sensation of horror vacui that makes it a bit heavy and
prolix (which is uncommon in Woody Allen).

It was a pity. Knowing the outstanding results Mr Allen has achieved in
portraying human troubles and tragedies, one is left with the curiosity
to know how he would have managed to portray (or allude to) the
tragicomic current events that Italian reality abundantly offers. 

But he would have needed a deeper look, which is hardly possible when
one shoots two movies a year. So, instead of a big fresco portrait, the
outcome is a nice little postcard.
<|_=00=_|>
In Rome, the America tourist Hayley (Alison Pill) meets the local
Michelangelo (Flavio Parenti) on the street and soon they fall in love
with each other. Hayley's parents, the psychiatrist Phyllis (Judy
Davis) and the retired music producer Jerry (Woody Allen), travel to
Rome to meet Michelangelo and his parents. When Jerry listens to
Michelangelo's father Giancarlo (Fabio Armiliato) singing opera in the
shower, he is convinced that he is a talented opera singer. But there
is a problem: Giancarlo can only sing in the shower.

The couple Antonio (Alessandro Tiberi) and Milly (Alessandra
Mastronardi) travel to Rome to meet Antonio's relatives that belong to
the high society. Milly goes to the hairdresser while Antonio waits for
her in the room. Milly gets lost in Rome and the prostitute Anna
(Penélope Cruz) mistakenly goes to Antonio's room. Out of the blue, his
relatives arrive in the room and they believe Anna is Antonio's wife.
Meanwhile the shy Milly meets her favorite actor Luca Salta (Antonio
Albanese) and goes to his hotel room "to discuss about movies".

One day, the middle-class clerk Leopoldo (Roberto Benigni) becomes a
celebrity and is hunted by the paparazzo. A couple of days later, he is
forgotten by the media.

The American architect John (Alec Baldwin) travels to Rome with his
wife and feels nostalgic since he lived in the city thirty years ago
when he was a student. He meets the student of architecture Jack (Jesse
Eisenberg), who lives on the same street that John had lived, and he
invited to drink a coffee at his house. Jack lives with his girlfriend
Sally (Greta Gerwig) that invites her best friend Monica (Ellen Page)
to stay with them in their house. But soon Jack has a crush on Monica. 

"To Rome with Love" is a romantic movie by Woody Allen with four
independent stories of love, adultery and dreams in the Eternal City.
The most curious is that the stories are not entwined like usually
happens in this type of movie.

The story of the caretaker that can only sing operas in the shower is
sarcastic, with the typical humor of Woody Allen that performs a
neurotic and insecure character. 

The story of Antonio and Milly is funny, with the sexy Penélope Cruz
performing a prostitute with a perfect Italian.

The story of Leopold is a joke with the present moment of the world,
where mediocrity becomes famous without reason only because, for
example, she is hot or he is a soccer player.

The story of John is thought provoking, with a mature man returning to
his youth trying to fix his own mistakes. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Para Roma, com Amor" ("To Rome with Love")
<|_=00=_|>
The opening sequence of this film filled me with hope....Rome, probably
my favorite city in the world, seen through the awestruck eyes of Woody
Allen....unfortunately, until the equally magnificent closing scene, he
doesn't really make Rome an integral part of his stories....of course
there are a few token references to the Collosseum and the Vatican, but
also a few too many interior shots. Woody himself, at age 77, is still
the funniest performer in the film, AND of course he gives himself most
of the best lines as well ("He does it for pleasure, not for money" -
"Well, there is a lot of pleasure IN money"!). But while his segment is
pretty funny, it's also basically one-joke. The segment with the
Italian couple moving to the big city begins well and the couple is
appealing, but it goes astray when it turns into a story of double
infidelity; this could have been handled either as an all-out farce or
as a serious drama, but Allen seems, rather disagreeably, to imply that
the whole incident was beneficial to the couple! Nevertheless, this
segment includes the three loveliest women in the film, the adorable
up-and-coming Alessandra Mastronardi, the getting-hotter-every-year
Penelope Cruz, and a cameo by the ageless Ornella Muti! (she should
have had a bigger part). The segment with the American couple who find
their relationship tested by the arrival of the girl's uninhibited best
female friend feels mostly artificial and unconvincing - perhaps
because Ellen Page never quite succeeds in looking like a strong enough
temptation for Jesse Eisenberg to abandon Gret Gerwig. As for the
Roberto Benigni segment, it's pointless, unfunny and repetitive. When I
saw "Il Mostro" at the theater in the mid-1990s, the audience was
roaring with laughter; during 90% of Benigni's scenes in "To Rome With
Love" the audience was dead quiet. Overall, a lightweight
disappointment from Woody, though not without moments of pleasure for
his fans. ** out of 4.
<|_=00=_|>
"Woody Allen has lost the magic that once made he's a films a delight
to watch, Midnight in Paris had it unlike this film"

To Rome with Love revolves around the life of many many people either
living or on trip to the city of Rome. They can all be seen by a man
who directs where cars go. The American girl (Alison Pill) bringing her
parents (Judy Davis and Woody Allen) to Italy so she can marry her
Italian boyfriend (Flavio Parenti) and also meet the parents of the
boyfriend which includes the father who is turned into an opera singer
father and mother . Then there is Leopoldo (Roberto Benigni) who
becomes a celebrity which seems over night, an Italian man who is
mistaken for another when Anna (Penelope Cruz) a prostitute walks in.
There is also Jack (Jesse Eisenberg) and Sally (Greta Gerwig) who's
relationship is almost ruined by Sally's friend Monica (Ellen Page).
The film I believe fails because the script try's to juggle all these
story's and in the end I found none of them interesting.

Written and directed by Woody Allen it's sad for me to talk about my
hate for this film as I felt every single actor was wasted especially
since I like most of these actors. I had high expectations for this
film as I felt Allen made a comeback with Midnight in Paris last year
but I did learn that it was based on an early story he wrote. So I have
to come to the conclusion that he has lost his magic to make
interesting films with big casts and none of them being the weak link.

Sure all the actors were good but that's only because they made the
most they were given with. Alison Pill was wasted unlike her previous
work with Allen, Allen himself was given a lot to do but he is not an
actor and needs to give someone else a chance, Davis I almost forgot
was in the film is bad because I like her so much. This film gives us a
chance to see what happened Benigni after he won the Oscar because he
seemed to disappear and in this film he just is a mess showing that
sometimes really bad actors can get Oscars. Penelope Cruz when she
worked with Allen last won an Oscar but even though she is not as good
she is best in the film because she gets to be funny and speak in an
accent. Then there is the love story which seemed OK but then how they
end it was just off putting with me hating Page in this film. 

To sum up my feelings on the film all I have to say was I looked at my
watch many times watching the film which is not a good thing when
watching a film because it means it's boring. Allen was able to get
this company of actors but I feel that he should have cut some plots
and maybe it would have followed better then the final product.

MOVIE GRADE: E- (MVP: Penelope Cruz)
