
About Last Night is a very unique romantic comedy. And for a genre
that's practically built around clichés, that's really saying
something. It intertwines the romance and the comedy from different
angles by showing two couples, both with polar opposite relationship
dynamics. There are essentially four leads in this movie and they're
all excellent, especially Hart and Hall. They're an absolute riot
together. You can tell some of the stuff is improvised and they bounce
off each other incredibly well, and you actually believe that these
characters can fall in love. 

The "normal" couple has the more romantic story, and sadly they're not
nearly as fun as the crazy couple, but that's kind of the point. There
are some heartfelt moments in there, and the witty writing helps a lot.
Some plot lines in the movie are predictable, some are filler, but the
movie as a whole is diverse and totally engaging. It's structured in a
way that it jumps from season to season, showing the peaks and valleys
of the two relationships and how the friendships between all four
characters are affected by it. There is seldom a dull moment in About
Last Night, and you can't say that about many romcoms.

What elevates this movie in particular, though, is Kevin Hart. He's
absolutely hysterical. I would watch a full two hour movie of just his
character, he's that good. This is more proof that Hart is a comedy
genius (and this is coming from someone who doesn't care much for his
standup); he just needs the right vehicle to showcase it completely.
Here, he just isn't in it enough. I mean, he's in it a lot, but he's
just so damn good you can't get enough. His chemistry with everyone is
great, and it doesn't even feel like he's acting. Not to say the other
actors aren't as good - they're great - but Hart (and his relationship
with Hall) basically steals the movie.

About Last Night isn't the be all end all of romantic comedies, but
it's different enough to separate it from the pack. It handles both the
romance and the comedy with finesse (and plenty of vulgarity), and it
features Kevin Hart unleashed. If you're a fan of his, this is a
must-watch.
<|_=00=_|>
About Last Night could have gone in two directions: Play it safe and
make easy money like 2012's Think like a Man; or gamble the R rating,
become more realistic, and resemble the likes of Best Man Holiday.

The gamble was taken, and the payoff is far better than expected. About
Last Night finally allows Kevin Hart off the leash and the results are
amazing. He also has a comedic rival in the female category with Regina
Hall, who stands toe-to-toe with his insanity and doesn't back down.
The end result is a romantic dramedy that despite lacking in laughs in
favor of drama delivers an entertaining movie that will go down as one
that took risks, just not enough of them.

The main risk was the well-earned yet respectably mature R rating. Your
best movies about relationships usually tend to be those that do not
shy away from the more mature subjects and aren't afraid of baring it
all physically and emotionally. The Before Sunrise trilogy and Eternal
Sunshine of the Spotless Mind are the better modern examples. About
Last Night never exaggerates to earn the rating, instead exposes
one-night stands, relationships, sex, emotional growth, and all the
complications amongst these subjects with no red tape to stop
itultimately establishing itself as a more mature film in its usual
cinematic genre.

It wasn't just the honesty that gives About Last Night its edge above
its usual contemporaries. It boasts a great (besides Bruno Mars' latest
album) soundtrack that incorporates a healthy dosage of jazz and blues,
employs a script with good dialogue, and is directed and edited nice
and tight for that it never really overstays its welcome. Most
importantly, the chemistry amongst the leads is off the charts. Regina
Hall and Kevin Hart are nearly flawless together, as their banter and
angry love provide the most laughs and some of the best moments in the
movie. Not to be undone, the more dramatic relationship between Joy
Bryant and Michael Ealy was very much believable and carried the
emotional weight of the entire film.

What ultimately bogs down About Last Night is that it doesn't quite dig
deep enough into the psyche of modern-day relationships. The 1980
version of About Last Night and the play that it's based on were both
brutally realistic as well as critical of the time period and the views
of relationships amongst the culture. With this version, we see the
who, the what, and the where, but don't enough of the why. It lacks the
subtle commentary like what we saw in Her, it lacks the explanation as
to why it's become more difficult nowadays for marriages and
long-lasting relationships to survive. 

One of the quietly scary trends nowadays is the deterioration of the
American marriage, especially amongst minorities like Hispanics and
Blacks. This movie could have broken even more ground if this had been
explored and expanded upon the concept of Sexual Perversion in Chicago,
the original stage play. The play is 40 years old, maybe its time for
an update? 

Mediocre movies remain in shallow waters. Riskier movies swim deeper.
And the best of the best fully dive in and risk all the consequences.
About Last Night lands somewhere in the middle, but nonetheless is an
entertaining movie with good performances and good chemistry. This
movie will not embed itself in romantic drama history, but will leave a
nice impression throughout the yearespecially from rising star Kevin
Hart and the underrated talent of Regina Hall, Joy Bryant, and Michael
Ealy.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended a screening of the film a week prior to it opening in
theaters. Will Packer, Kevin Hart and Regina Hall came to the theater
to get viewers reactions that evening. "About Last Night" is the
funniest, most realistic romantic comedy I've seen. However, be mindful
of having a mouth full of beverage or food because Kevin Hart is
hilarious in this movie and Regina Hall compliments him very well with
her comedic acting. Both actors coming off of the heels of other recent
successful movies ("Best Man Holiday" for Hall and "Ride Along" for
Hart) may make you assume that they gave their best performances
already. But in my opinion, this was some of the best work I've seen
from both actors. Michael Ealy is incredibly good to look at and a good
actor as well, with a current TV show receiving good reviews and it's
nice to see Joy Bryant on the big screen once again. Whether you're a
couple or a single person, you will relate to these characters
personally or know of someone in your life they remind you of. It
doesn't matter what race you are either. Relationships and the emotions
and issues that come with them are universal. I encourage you to see
this movie and not just for Valentine's Day, but on any day.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Hart's level of comedy is one you either get or you don't get. If
you don't get it, then you'll still like this film because he isn't
really the central character. This movie is written as a romantic
comedy, but I saw much more romantic than comedy, but was funny enough
nonetheless.

Let's talk about what I liked. I liked Michael Ealy's effortless charm
and his chemistry with actress Joy Bryant. I liked Regina Hall and
Kevin Hart in their ridiculously dysfunctional relationship. I liked
the directing, because in some scenes, the seemingly "awkward" or
"different" camera angles that my girlfriend was complaining about were
actually very artistic and well done. I liked the soundtrack as well.

The only off-putting feature of this movie is that Kevin Hart's acting
seems almost nonexistent. The guy is just playing himself in every
film. I seriously think the guy doesn't even know he's an actor. 

If you watch his stand up specials, and then a few of his very early
film appearances, he seems to incorporate a level of acting. Up until
his film breakout in Think Like A Man, not too many people knew of him.
Now, a household name, he reaps in the benefits of being a funny man. 

Throughout the film, it actually just felt like Kevin Hart was just
talking to a bunch of actors. Not often did I feel like I was watching
a movie. Over time, through multiple viewings of Kevin Hart's works, it
seems to get repetitive and unfunny.

A good movie for the romantic yet predictable story between Michael
Ealy's character and Joy Bryant's.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, I'm disappointed. Steve Pink has directed some much funnier
comedies in the past (Accepted, Hot Tub Time Machine). I think the
problem is that he's just not cut out to direct the serious stuff. The
first 20-30 minutes of the movie are the funniest, and the strongest.
After that, the film drags and drags. Clearly there are two couples,
and Ealy and Bryant's relationship takes the dramatic turn, while Hart
and Hall are funny.

Ealy and Bryant are too melodramatic to make the dull material work,
and Hart and Hall are oddly slapstick next to them. Do men really talk
to women the way Kevin Hart's character does? Or is he an exaggerated
version to be funny? He borders on obnoxious.

If you make it to the end, which I suppose most of you will, do you
even care if the couples stay together or break up? In many ways, the
film makes a stronger case for these couples not being together. I
suppose, the one thing the movie does well is define itself as not
being a black movie. I know what you're thinking the four leads are
all black, it must be a black movie. It's not. I don't recall a moment
in the film where they ever discuss being black, or the struggle of
being black, or anything related to the color of their skin.

The film is a romantic comedy, where the leads happen to be black. Most
films like this end up being "black movies", because of jokes that
resonate more with a black audience, or jokes about the culture, etc.
About Last Night avoids all of that, amazingly.

You won't get past the fact that the film drags, the acting isn't
great, and you'll end up not caring about the end result. I'm behind on
reviewing this, it's already on DVD, and that's a good thing. This
would have been a definite skip for theatres, but is less offensive
when you only spend a dollar or two on it.
<|_=00=_|>
It was okay, really kind of bland. To paraphrase the supporting actors'
words ---"you two are BOOOOORING" when describing the leads. This is
why you should pass on seeing this in the theater. They are some funny
moments. But the tension in the main characters' relationship makes no
sense, there isn't any. No story line or development to the rise and
fall of their relationship. This is only worth seeing if you really
love and/or are crushing on any of the four actors starring in the
movie. That said Kevin Hart and Regina Hall are hilarious, but it's not
enough to save this movie. Okay date movie if nothing else is playing.
Skip it, you've been warned.
<|_=00=_|>
So what do we have here? Nothing but another unnecessary remake of an
'80s film. This time it's "About Last Night," the romantic drama
starring Demi Moore and Rob Lowe, which was itself based on the highly
acclaimed play by David Mamet, provocatively entitled "Sexual
Perversity in Chicago." In this version, it's Joy Brand and Michael
Ealy who play the young urban couple who meet, fall in love, move in
together, then begin to have doubts about the efficacy and durability
of their relationship. 

Brand and Ealy are appealing and attractive performers, and both have
done fine work on TV, Brand in "Parenthood" and Ealy in "Almost Human."
But here they have been let down by screenwriter Leslye Headland, who
proves herself incapable of getting past all the timeworn tropes and
clichés that have become so much a part of the romantic comedy genre.
The movie becomes just another men-are-from-Mars/women-are-from-Venus-
type scenario, filled with girl-talk and guy-talk and all the
predictable sturm und drang soul-baring and commitment issues (mainly
on the part of the man, of course) that such narratives are prone to.
Too often the things pulling the couple apart feel scripted and
manufactured rather than organic and real. Under the slick but
lackluster direction of Steve Pink, everyone just seems to be going
through the motions, without any real passion or conviction.

The movie also comes replete with the requisite smart-aleck, comic-
relief couple (well-played by Kevin Hart and Regina Hall) to serve as a
foil for the one on center-stage. Yet, even the humor tends to aim low
when it should be aiming high.

I like the way the story hits the re-set button in the final scene, but
by then it's a case of too little too late and we've already moved onto
the next movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Is it just me or did this movie seem like it went on forever? I was
shocked when I saw the run time was under two hours... 

This movie...

Was not very funny. The only time I really laughed was when Bernie was
explaining to Debbie that his girlfriend was a bad cook. That's
probably it.

Pacing is dreadfully slow...The movie moves at a glacial pace and will
have you glancing over at the clock. Don't be fooled by the run time,
this movie is slow as molasses. 

The cast was charming and had chemistry, but it seemed like they had
more fun making the movie than we did watching it. 

The comedy bits in the movie were corny and the romantic bits in this
movie were also corny and poorly written. It ended up being more
dramatic than one would think a movie with Kevin Hart would be. 

It's a pretty forgettable movie. There was nothing in it that made me
want to watch it again or recommend it to anyone else.

Falling in line with a lot of "dramedy" type movies that Hollywood
seems to be enamored with, this title is just a waste of time.
Hollywood only seems to be reliable for action anymore...Even that is
slipping with the over use of CGI. Do yourself a favor and pass on this
one.
<|_=00=_|>
I as of this review haven't seen the original About Last Night this
movie is based on so I'm coming into this fresh in a sense. However,
the word fresh isn't something to describe this movie as it is a giant
checklist for rom com plot twists and clichés. Thankfully, the cast
here elevates to a highly enjoyable rom com that makes use of the cast
to elevate the admittedly generic material.

Good: Like I said, the cast is the main selling point of the movie.
Obviously, the attention goes towards Regina Hall and Kevin Hart and
rightfully so because they are hilarious together. They work off each
other so well that the movie could have been about them and it still
would have worked. They are the bright spot of the movie. Michael Ealy
and Joy Bryant provide the more toned down couple here and they do good
to thanks to their likability. The humor when it hits it provides the
laughs as well.

Bad: Like I said, the movie has no surprises and any cliché or scenario
you might expect from a movie like this will be there. As much as the
cast does a great job, the material is still too predictable to elevate
it more than the typical romantic comedy. If it had maybe a more
dramatic tone, it could have worked a little better.

Overall, while it does suffer from clichés and a familiar premise, the
cast and the humor makes this an above average rom com worthy for a
date night.
<|_=00=_|>
. . . without needing extra rest room breaks is to see this remake of
ABOUT LAST NIGHT. Maybe it's the worked-to-death Four Seasons motif,
but as soon as you see the "About Summer" Inter-Title card at the
14-minute, 22-second mark, you keep waiting (and waiting and waiting)
for the "next shoe to drop," and it seems like a whole GONE WITH THE
WIND before this story finally gets to "About Fall" (even though it's
only 18:43, if you keep score by the clock). However, it turns out that
that's just a warm-up to the 34:05 Ultramarathon it takes to reach
"About Winter." Though someone actually running out in the fresh air
might "catch a second wind" since "About Spring" comes just 16:40
later, captive audiences will swear they need another $20 of stuff per
couple from the concession stand just to stay awake (not all of them
have coffee; check with your local Bijou before buying a ticket for
ABOUT LAST NIGHT). In a valiant effort to keep theater ushers from
running out of smelling salts to revive a somnolent crowd, "About
Spring" lasts just 10:10 till the credits roll. Is ABOUT LAST NIGHT
formulaic, totally predictable, and repetitive? Suffice it to say this
flick wins the "Razzie" as the most boring David Mamet-based film ever!
