
I was a bit skeptical after reading negative reviews of the film, but
my 4 year old still insisted we go. I am ever so glad we did. In fact,
we are scheduled to see the film a second time tonight with my niece.

Here is my honest review.

If you hated the original Annie or if you don't care for musicals, then
this may not the movie for you. As a person who was a huge fan of the
1982 version of Annie, I was so afraid that the film would overly mimic
the original. Instead, the film was not, as critics claimed, a "black
rendition"; It is a 2014 remake containing a multi-racial cast, with an
African American lead actress.

The 11 year old Quvenzhane Wallis was just as spunky and memorable as
Aileen Quinn was when she played in the 1982 version. Cameron Diaz is
not Carol Burnett, so those who compare the two are not being fair to
Cameron. Instead, I was surprisingly impressed by Ms. Diaz. She
embodied the original role, while making it her own.

Every actress/actor, song choice, story line, etc. gave fans of the
original a taste of the old, while presenting the timeless Rags to
Riches story of Annie to a new generation.

I truly enjoyed this film. I am thankful for the negative reviews,
because my expectations going into the theater were so low. I wasn't
the only person who enjoyed the film. The sold out theater, burst into
clapping immediately after the show was over. I heard one woman say "It
was like seeing a movie and being at a play at the same time". She
could not have described the moment any better.

Great Movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why some people don't like this movie! I don't think this
movie is cheesy at all. I absolutely loved it! I love the modern take
on it. I love the actors and actresses and all of the songs. I have
watched it several times now. I love how Quvenzhané Wallis gives off
the "okay, I don't care" act when things rise up against her character
(Annie) in the movie. But as she walks away, you can see her true
emotion of hurt or sadness show through. I think that shows what a good
actress she is growing up to be. I love the modern take on the original
songs as well as the new songs added. I think this is a very well made
movie. I wish it had better reviews than it has been getting.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought it was a great movie. I grew up watching the old Annie and I
loved this one just as much. The original Annie made you feel happy for
Annie and Mr Warbuck but this Annie made you feel good about yourself
and your family. I thought the new songs were catchy and enjoyable. The
only bad thing I can see was that Cameron Diaz's acting was a bit over
exaggerated but besides that, it was great. I had no problem at all
with the actors being black, in fact, I didn't even think about it
until I came on here and read the disgusting comments. All the people
that grew up with the old Annie and are hating on this one need to stop
because this is an updated version on the story that was made for the
next generation. Just think of the poor little girls in the movie
reading your disgusting comments.
<|_=00=_|>
WOW!!! What a delightful surprise!! Everyone in the family LOVED this
movie, and yeah we enjoy this version much more than the original, and
we are white (for the ones who claim that this is the black version of
Annie)!! My 3yr old daughter is obsessed with it and even my husband
who hates musicals really liked this one because there is a much more
realistic vibe to it; the beats are groovy, the singing is impeccable
and it is not accompanied by excessive dancing involving a group of 100
all with the same facial expression :) Yeap, this is not your typical
musical...it is so much better!! Instead of skipping the singing
moments you play them over and over again. And the kid..Annie...OH MY
what a voice! I cannot believe how much emotion she puts into her songs
and she is only 11!
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, all the one star reviews are so sad. Im really glad i didn't
listen to them and took my kids to see the movie. It is such an amazing
movie and i don't think there was a single person in the theater who
didn't walk out with smiles on their face. Honestly, i prefer this
version to the 1982 version and Quevenzhane is an amazing singer and
performer. She's also a good role model for little girls to look up to.
The people saying that she can't sing or dance are being so unfair and
that makes me sick to my stomach! I normally never leave movie reviews
but will be rating this a 10 star review to hopefully offset the
jackasses picking on a beautiful talented little girl.
<|_=00=_|>
Not sure why so many feel the need to bash this version of the movie
just because they think they're the top 'original' Annie movie fan of
all time. Who cares if they made a new version...it's not even close to
being the same as the original. I absolutely loved the original Annie,
and I can say that I love this one just as much. It's SO much fun, and
all of the actors/actresses are wonderful at acting and singing. I feel
that the changes that were made were done so to reflect the times we
live in...certain sayings from the original wouldn't be related to as
easily. Nothing wrong with liking both...they're just movies, so I
don't think you'll hurt the original Annie's feelings if you decide to
like this one just as much or more!!
<|_=00=_|>
I have no doubt that the many people rating down this movie are either
racists or people who don't understand the meaning of remakes.

This film, a modern remake of the 1982 classic is rather delightful,
the beginning sequence pulled me in immediately and the first classroom
scene where ironically a class member with ginger hair, freckles and a
red cardigan is giving a presentation before our modern Annie is called
up to do hers is hilarious and clever in itself. Also seeing Annie's
journey to the restaurant really highlighted the modernness of this
film. It's set in 2014. Not the depression.

The modern remakes of the songs are both fun and energetic though i do
miss the orchestra feel of the 1982 film. Quvenzhane Wallis (Annie) is
very talented and despite the unnecessary auto tune here and there,
pulls off Annie amazingly, her take on Sia's Opportunity gave me goose
bumps. This film is filled with hilarious fresh one liners especially
from Jamie Foxx, who plays the modern and very accurate version of Mr
Warbucks.

This film will surely make you laugh, the only downside i have is the
fact that they could have done a LOT more Choreographically, for
example the choreography in the original hard knock life was astounding
whereas this version not so much. I also found one or two of the random
song break made me cringe. But the major downfall was the choreography
and the fact their are only 5 foster kids, these things are the reason
i can't give the film a 10/10.

This is NOT Political correctness, most people fail to realize that
1982 Annie based off a fictional cartoon strip, was set during the
great Depression and a time where Irish and Ginger folk, two of Annie's
attributes were highly marginalized and carried negative stigma, that's
what made Annie special. The fact that she made people see through all
of that and love her for the sweet adventurous child she was despite
her social class. This modern reboot portrays Annie as a black girl
another marginalized group, if you don't believe me, look at all the
racist reviews. Annie could be any child, Black, White, Asian, but the
fact she was a ginger opened a lot of eyes and hopefully this film will
too.

PS. I took my kids who have seen the original to watch this and they
loved it, no mention of race, no mention of Annie's hair, so you grown
adults complaining do look pathetic.

All in All, GO SEE THIS FILM! And if you like it, write a review.
<|_=00=_|>
I love that movie. But, Cameron Diaz is a good actress in Shrek film
series. I love Shrek movie to Cameron Diaz. Could you give Cameron Diaz
a favor? I just want her to find Macaulay Culkin somewhere in New York
City. Call the police and call the straight jacket mental hospital for
Macaulay Culkin. Cameron Diaz wants to see him in New York City. Ask
her that I want to speak with her. Macaulay Culkin's in trouble. Call
the straight jacket mental hospital to Macaulay Culkin and New York
Police Department to find Macaulay Culkin. I would like to speak with
him, please. It's important. Don't worry, I guess I'll see you real
soon. Just ask Cameron Diaz to see me in Rocklin, California. Tell her
to bring Macaulay Culkin in Rocklin, California too. I've got a
surprise for the animated movies. It's a Disney movie. And now, I've
got a work to do. Thanks for stopping by. I hope you love this. Have a
nice day.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen it 12 times now! A movie that makes me laugh and sing-along
with the characters deserves a 10. Because the experience of going to
the theater should be a positive one. This new ANNIE is a refreshing
opportunity to enjoy and feel good. You will connect emotionally with
the characters (Annie, Mr.Stacks, Miss Hannigan, Grace, and Lou) and
care about their journey. 

This is a film that celebrates the wonders of childhood: it reminds us
of how precious our little girls are. "Annie 2014" will make you laugh,
smile, and it will warm your heart. There are some wonderful and
touching moments-those are the moments you look forward to if you
watch this film a second or third or fourth time! 

Q. Wallis' performance is energetic and genuine. Her singing is
stellar. No wonder why Annie has two Golden Globe nominations (best
actress in musical and best original song). The way Wallis sings
"Opportunity" is breathtaking! Wow!

Our contemporary Annie is authentic and smart. She navigates the
streets of New York with the hope that one day the sun will shine upon
her and she will find her parents. I love her assertiveness "I am a
foster child, not an orphan." In many ways, Annie is a role model... we
should all learn from her! About the other characters: R. Byrne is a
lonely sweet and intelligent assistant who finds a friend in Annie. C.
Diaz portrays a hopeless/bitter failed-singer who now takes care of the
foster little girls. J. Foxx plays a funny, lonely and ambitious
Mayor-of-New York candidate. He too sings with passion and heart. I
love how Lou, the Latin guy, adds a spicy, funny and sweet twist.

Any flaws with this movie? Yes. Some songs are bad and some scenes are
terribly silly. But those flaws do not eclipse the great message, the
great music, and the great acting. The more I watch it, the more I love
Annie and her quest. 

Overall, "Annie 2014" delivers what it promises  music, family comedy,
and sentiment.
<|_=00=_|>
Annie was a beautifully entertaining film about a fostered girl in
modern day America whose big dream is to one day meet her biological
parents. She faithfully awaits their return as she encounters one
cunningly opportunistic adult after another. 

The film's messages are so simple and cliché in the Western world as to
not worth arguing about(that's a good thing): The love of
family(biological and chosen) is more important than material gain.
Lonely people are still lonely at the top. Everybody needs love. Greed
leads to evil. 

It's a children's movie for Pete's sake!

My toddler and middle-schooler-both boys-were hooked from start to
finish, but so were my husband and I! The music was catchy and upbeat.
Quvenzhane Wallis was a bright shining star and was such a joy to
watch. She really was a heart warmer and a convincingly hopeful foster
child. In fact, the entire cast was charming, including Carmen Diaz. 

Many of the ratings here were questionable until further reading. How
does a movie get so utterly slammed before it's even come out? Go home
boot leggers! Complaints about Quvenzhane Wallis not being the "real"
Annie abound. I've seen the word n**ger tossed about and believe those
bitter sentiments are the source of the majority of the negative
"audience" reviews. Critics missed the entire point of this film and
can safely be ignored.

We live in an upscale part of Boca. It's predominantly white, as was
the viewing audience. I'd read the reviews prior to seeing the movie
and intentionally watched the audience to see their reactions. I mean,
if a movie is a 2-star overall, it should reflect that in a random
audience, right? People should be disappointed and bored! But no.
Adults and children alike, black, white, Hispanic, and some Asians,
were all tuned in and appeared joyfully entertained throughout. A group
home for teens with Down's Syndrome were seated in front of us. One of
the young men was so excited for Annie that he was standing up and
cheering for her along the way. We all were. A middle aged white mother
with her two blond haired daughters was seated next to my eldest son,
"This is so great, isn't it?", she asked enthusiastically at the
movie's halfway point. My son beamed and told her he loved it. Annie
received a sustained applause at the end and I knew it would. The
audience had fallen in love with her journey and with her. 

Annie is cheesy, simplistic, clichéd, redundant, auto-tuned, and almost
a full 2-hours long. It's also whimsical, joyfully entertaining,
heartwarming, packed with talented performances, groundbreaking in its
characterization of Annie as a little black girl, and supports messages
about family and love that are virtually inarguable. In other words,
it's an excellent holiday film!

Ignore the ratings slam that the movie is receiving, many of of which
are from people who are quite obviously racist and others subtly so,
and see for yourself. Oh, and if you loved it, please rate it.
