
As a fan of the "coming of age" story structure, I am happy to report
that this film met my expectations in every single way. Some key plot
points were predictable, but the writing, performances and soundtrack
were all on point. The emotions and experiences the film conveys do not
feel artificial, and Hailee Steinfeld shines! Intelligent writing and
little twists here and there will likely leave you genuinely invested
in the life of these characters and leave you wanting more. Woody
Harrelson plays a wonderful image of a teacher dealing with his life
amidst high school drama and Kyra Sedgwick's performance as a
struggling mother was especially heart felt and real. This is not to be
missed for fans of this genre!
<|_=00=_|>
Remember all those teen movies about how much fun it is to be a
teenager? Porky's, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, all those American Pie
movies and movies that spend an inordinate amount of time at the beach,
to name a few. These are typical teenage movies. The Edge of Seventeen
is not a typical teenage movie, and that is what makes it so great. Oh,
there have been other great non-typical teenage films of late, like The
Perks of Being a Wallflower, but somehow Seventeen stands alone.

Perhaps it is the intense and thoroughly committed performance of
Hailee Steinfeld who started her film career under the tutelage of the
Cohn Brothers in their remake of True Grit (oh yeah, and was nominated
for an Oscar at the age of 14, although principle filming occurred
while she was 13). Hailee so captures the angst of Nadine, whose name
alone sets her apart, (Nadine was the most common name given to baby
girls in 1958); that one cannot help but ache for her. Nadine carries
the weight of the world on her shoulders and believes herself to be
unlike any of the other kids who text each other about the tacos
they're eating, and communicate in emojis.

She plays well alongside her favorite teacher, portrayed cheekily by
Woody Harrelson who provides some of the best laughs in the film, as
one might expect. Also of note, I think, is the quirky, lovable and
downright cute performance of Hayden Szeto as Erwin. Erwin sits next to
Nadine in class stumbling and bumbling his way through awkward repartee
in the hopes of some sort of hook-up. But nothing is typical here, and
the course that said repartee takes leads us into uncharted teen
territory. It might also be interesting to note that the name Erwin was
the most common baby name in 1918, which makes this Erwin an old soul,
to be sure.

Kelly Fremon Craig has written a real gem here, and his first directing
effort will earn him much critical acclaim, to be sure. The thing he
does masterfully is take us inside the character of Nadine by giving us
so many moments alone with her; moments when we experience in her
stillness, in her eyes, and in her facial discipline as an actress the
absolute bankruptcy of her isolation. None of us would want to be
seventeen again, or ever; at least not her seventeen.

I am grateful to the studio, and to the Marcus Corporation for giving
some of us movie lovers an opportunity to pre-screen this film that
will be released on November 18th. I suppose they hope we will say good
things about it and get others to go see the film. Well, go see the
film. You will laugh, and you will need a few tissues, but you will not
regret having spent a few hours walking in Nadine's shoes. Perhaps
there is a little Nadine in all of us after all.
<|_=00=_|>
John Hughes is an unmistakable touchstone of the coming of age 1980s
high school dramedy. Films like Sixteen Candles, The Breakfast Club,
Pretty in Pink and Ferris Bueller's Day Off chronicled the adolescent
experience of growing up, dealing with teen angst and
self-actualization while mixing in a dash of old fashioned screwball
comedy which at once provides relatable laughter for the viewer while
making the dramatic pills easier to swallow. All of those undeniably
come to mind when watching the directorial debut of Post Grad
screenwriter Kelly Fremon Craig, The Edge of Seventeen, a coming of age
high school comedy about a socially awkward and unhappy teenage girl
named Nadine (Hailee Steinfeld from True Grit) whose best friend enters
a relationship with her hunky older brother (Blake Jenner from
Everybody Wants Some). And yet it is Amy Heckerling's Fast Times at
Ridgemont High that The Edge of Seventeen finds its closest antecedent
in, providing at once a funny and sympathetic rom com and a decidedly
darker, more explicit look at budding female sexuality in a world
adorned with dumb horny males who care nothing for the heroine's plight
and emotional crossroads. At times its unbearable watching Nadine
suffer while at the same time the film doesn't deny her own
complicitness in the creation of her teenage misery. At first on the
outset this looked like another Juno/Ghost World lovechild but as it
progressed I was surprised how funny, charming, touching and well
thought out this portrait of adolescent fear, anxiety and depression
really was. Sure we've seen this movie done to death, but The Edge of
Seventeen provided a fresh spin on the proceedings that kept it from
blending together with what came before it.
<|_=00=_|>
What seems to be the typical "teen" movie of young teenagers in high
school ends up being an unusual movie of its kind. I explain: although
it is true that the film is a teen movie (it does not deceive anyone),
it is also true that it is more complex and adult than it appears at
first glance.

It is true that the film has the typical clichés of the genre, I will
not lie, but still breaks with the typical dynamics of these films, as
it shows a fragile girl and reveals all her fears. The viewer sees how
Nadine is with her problems and concerns.

Mention aside its two protagonists: Haliee Steinfeld. She is the ideal
actress for the character of Nadine, is the queen of the film and
manages to make her character credible at all times, getting you to
empathize with her and make the film an extraordinary work into the
genre. Without she, the film probably would not have been just as good.
The other character is Woody Harrelson. Seriously, incredible, all the
scenes that come out are great. He does a very good role, and the
peculiar Nadine-professor couple with their conversations are the best.

Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
I can't say that I expected to see this movie opening weekend, or at
all for that matter. But I'm glad I did. The Edge of Seventeen is an
awkwardly charming coming of age tale that flirts in the same vein as
some classic John Hughes 80's flicks.

I think all of us have been keeping an eye on Hailee Steinfeld since
True Grit in 2010. When you can steal scenery from the likes of Jeff
Bridges, Matt Damon, and Josh Brolin, you know you have someone
special. The Edge of Seventeen is an entirely different genre and
obstacle for Steinfeld, however. I almost think that the coming-of-
age-teenage-angst-comedy-drama's are the most difficult films to reach
a broad audience, perhaps even more so than westerns. I usually need
something to hook me before I spend money on one of these, and that
came by way of Woody Harrelson.

Harrelson play's Steinfeld's teacher and common companion at lunch when
there's no one else to sit with. The brilliant thing about this
relationship is that its neither too dramatic nor too goofy, the
writers find a nice balance between gut busting laughs on Harrelson's
end to a nice dramatic payoff in the latter half. For all the clichés
that this film inevitably has, this relationship was something very
refreshing and served as the highlights for most of the film.

Nadine (Steinfeld) has several issues with her mother, brother, and
best friend to figure out throughout the course of the film. But it was
pleasing to see that the writers didn't choose to make any one
character in the right or wrong. I constantly felt like I was playing
out both sides in my head as to who I believe had the right to be mad
at the other or vice versa. Being in a family of 7, I can definitely
relate to some of the family obstacles Nadine goes through, and it
wasn't Hollywoodized just for the sake of pushing the plot forward.
There's unfortunately quite a few clichéd tropes that this film ends up
taking you toward, but it felt more natural than most of these types of
films. This could be attributed to the welcomed R rating the film
received.

It isn't for everyone, and I wouldn't even consider myself the target
audience. But it speaks to larger personal and family issues than the
trailer sets up. It's also one of the best Woody Harrelson performances
I've seen recently, even if he is probably as reserved as he's ever
been.

+Steinfeld carries this film

+With the help of the hilarious Harrelson

+Writing

-Inevitably some clichés and predictable plot points

8.0/10
<|_=00=_|>
I gave this movie an extra point for Woody Harrelsson and for the witty
dialogue, but besides that, there is absolutely nothing likable about
this film.

Nadie is a whiny and self-centered young girl, with imaginary problems
and self-created drama. Besides this film being obvious and so boring
that you sigh out loud several times, there is just nothing redeeming
about Nadine. I can see that she has had a rough time in life, but her
father's death doesn't seem to disturb her nearly as much as her friend
dating her brother. And it kind of leads you to think if this is a
movie about mental health issued mistaken for a comedy, because Nadine
is just angry and rude. I found it hard rooting for a girl that is just
a horrible person.

The worst part about this film is the message it sends, "Your life is
worth nothing if you don't have a boyfriend" because that is what is
all comes down to. Krista just like Nadie have a 180 on their
personality as soon as they get a steady beau. Then you can be open and
social and make new friends, if you are single you are not worth
anything and you should just stay in your room and get drunk.
Alternatively kill yourself, because loosing a parent is not enough to
put you over the edge, but your friend dating, that is want to make you
jump in front of a truck. I would have wanted this script tossed in
front of a truck, and I wouldn't have wasted a Sunday night watching
this useless mess.
<|_=00=_|>
Kelly Fremon Craig wrote and directed the 2016 coming-of-age story, The
Edge of Seventeen. Starring Hailee Steinfeld, Haley Lu Richardson, and
Woody Harrelson, The Edge of Seventeen tells the ever so familiar tale
of navigating high school and the awkward teenage years just as your
world begins to fall apart. Kelly Fremon Craig follows the formula of a
coming-of-age story while still managing to tug at the heartstrings of
the audience and keep us engaged through the final scene. Brilliantly
written with a wonderful cast, The Edge of Seventeen is sure to gain
attention this Oscar season.

Nadine (Hailee Steinfeld) has always been, a little different. There
was a time in her life in which she felt like such an outcast, she
refused to get out of the car and enter school. Everything changed when
she met Krista (Haley Lu Richardson) Finally, Nadine had a friend and
felt like she belonged with someone. Nadine and Krista were attached at
the hip, navigating life's challenges and the unique difficulties of
their lives. Nadine has always felt overshadowed by her older brother
Darian (Blake Jenner) who seems to never have a challenge with any
aspect of his life. Nadine never felt worse about her brother than when
he began dating Krista. The union between Krista and Darian was too
much for Nadine to bear, and she drew a line in the sand presenting
Krista with the ultimatum of choosing between Nadine and her brother.
When Krista refused to answer, Nadine abandoned their friendship
forging through life and high school and every awkward situation that
comes with it friendless and alone, with the exception of her favorite
teacher, Mr. Bruner (Woody Harrelson). 

Kelly Fremon Craig crafted a brilliant script, reminiscent of Diablo
Cody, with a perfectly conversational tone and wonderfully engaging pop
culture references. The most brilliant aspect of the script was that
each character was fully developed. It is so rare, especially in a
coming-of-age story to have each character so beautifully fleshed out
so the audience can understand the film from each perspective. The Edge
of Seventeen, especially, was dependent upon being able to see the
perspective of each character, as Nadine was often criticized for being
self-centered in her belief that she was the only one experiencing
problems in regards to the change in her family. The edge of Seventeen
was an incredibly relatable story, which is the driving force of a
coming-of-age tale; this inherent relatability is in no small part
aided by the wonderful acting of the film's lead. Hailee Steinfeld
played a perfect lead and was scene stealing and captivating every
moment she was on-screen. Kelly Fremon Craig also makes some brilliant
directorial choices to allow the audience to see their own similarities
to the tale. The fact that the principles attend Lakewood High School
reminds me of a line from A Nightmare on Elm Street, "In every town,
there's an Elm Street. My hometown in Colorado has a Lakewood High
School, and I'm sure, most towns in the U.S. do, as well. The most
striking stroke of relatability is the illustration that we are all
struggling through our own unique journey, and there is no one among us
to save us. Many teenagers believe that when they are an adult they
will have all the answers and won't have to struggle through life so
much, only to find out that it is only the circumstances with which one
struggles with that changes. There is no rule book for understanding
given once one becomes an adult, and there are never any easy answers
no matter how old we become, the best we can do is find someone that
makes the struggle worth it, and navigate life together. 

The Edge of Seventeen was a bit formulaic and predictable in parts, but
that is easily forgiven, considering it is a coming-of-age film. The
script and cast avoid the predictable hole the film avoided. Whether
you were a Darian, who on the surface never met a struggle, or whether
you were a Nadine, a self-described "old soul" who always felt out of
place in your generation and missed out on the "beer pong ice
breakers", there is something in The Age of Seventeen for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Edge of Seventeen" (2016 release; 104 min.) brings the story of
Nadine, a 17 yr. old junior at Lakewood HS. As the movie opens, Nadine
is racing the school's hallways to meet with her favorite teacher and
tell him "I'm going to kill myself!" The movie then goes back in time
to see how we get to this point. After a short look at "Nadine, Age 7"
and "Nadine, age 13", where we learn how socially awkward things are
for Nadine, but for her strong friendship with her BFF Krista. That
brings us to "Nadine, 17". At this point we're less than 15 min. into
the movie, but to tell you more of the plot would spoil your viewing
experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it all plays out.

Couple of comments: this movie is the directing debut for writer Kelly
Fremon Craig (who wrote 2009's "Post Grad"). Here, Craig takes another
shot at bringing the social awkwardness of being in high school and
trying to survive all of the pressures that come with it. When was the
last time that I've seen such an awkward teenager, who blurts out "I'm
seeing myself and I can't stand it. I gotta spend the rest of my life
with myself!". So nothing original here as such, except of course that
Nadine is played by none other than Hailee Steinfeld, yes the little
girl who was nominated of an Oscar in 2010 for "True Grit" is now grown
up into a wonderful young lady which bunches of acting talent.
Steinfeld basically carries the movie on her back, and is in virtually
every single scene. There is some terrific support from Kyra Sedwick as
Nadine's mom and Woody Harrelson as Nadine's teacher, but believe me
when I say this is all about Hailee Steinfeld. Last but not least, the
movie has a TON of great songs in it (check out the soundtrack).

"The Edge of Seventeen" opened nationally this past weekend. The Sunday
early evening screening where I saw this at was attended okay but not
great (about 10 people in the entire theater). This movie has not
gotten a big marketing push, and it remains to be seen whether it will
benefit from strong word-of-mouth. I quite enjoyed it for what it was,
a strong vehicle for leading actress Hailee Steinfeld, even if the
territory she explores here has been done before and doesn't offer all
that much new. If you get a chance to check it out, be it in the
theater, on VOD, or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray, I'd suggest you do and
draw your own conclusion.
<|_=00=_|>
You know that feeling when critics and everybody around you praise some
movie and give it the best rating, while you think it's a bowl of poop?
Yea...

This is a story of 17 years old girl Nadine. Nadine has problems.
Nobody likes her, her brother is a douche bag, she misses her father
that's just passed away, her only friend starts dating her brother, her
mother doesn't understand her, she's depressed and overall misery and
angst.

That's what people responsible for this poop want you to think. All I
see is self centered, loud, annoying brat with imaginary problems, no
hobbies, terrible personality and true, scary aggression of a raging
bull boiling under her skin. She was supposed to be this sad character
that audience is supposed to identify with and care about. But I
didn't. I was amazed how Nadine kept doing the dumbest things
imaginable over and over again, how many old teenage movies plot tricks
there are, how every 'person' in this movie is just a plot device to
push the 'story' a bit further, how muddled and awkward this bore fest
feels.

The only good thing about the movie was in the title of my review. The
teacher, played by Woody Harrelson. And by the way, apparently in that
school there's only this one guy, because you never see other teachers
or our heroine taking some other classes. So our main character is
constantly coming to him to throw up her verbal diarrhea about her
miserable life and the guy wants to help her, but she doesn't listen,
because she's just sad, annoying brat with mental problems.

Few words about R rating. There are 2 categories of R rated movies. The
ones that feel natural, where violence and profanity feels like an
integral part of a story (Tarantino and Scorsese movies for example)
and movies like Edge of Seventeen in which characters just swear a lot.
It comes out as fake and forced and it doesn't impress me in the least.

SPOILERS ABOUT THE ENDING 

The ending is just laughably bad. The change of Nadine's character is
one of the most unconvincing in movie history. She just magically turns
180 degrees overnight. Angst is gone, problems don't matter anymore,
she's just happy person all of the sudden! She even starts dating this
talentless, rich, clearly retarded (can't even construct a proper
sentence) Asian guy that was hitting on her for the entire run time of
a movie and everything's fine now, happiness is all around, so hooray.
I guess.

END OF SPOILERS 

So yea, The Edge of seventeen. A movie about loud, aggressive girl with
imaginary problems and poor Woody Harrelson plopped as a cherry on top
of a crap cake.

2/10, terrible movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Some of the best comedies distinguish the touching hysterical irony of
life's joy and tragedy, and celebrate the very best in people in life's
paradox. "The Edge of Seventeen" is that and much more. First time
Director and Writer Kelly Fremon Craig masterfully navigates that fine
line between cleverer than thou, and the reckoning of one's self. Craig
captures the natural speak of high school kids without some of the
pretense of "Juno". "The Edge of Seventeen" makes you burst out loud
with laughter, and touches your heart. Hailee Steinfeld makes this all
possible. What a revelation. I remember Hailee from the Coen Brothers'
"True Grit" phenomenal. Here she is a star. Steinfeld's performance is
funny, vulnerable, and fearless. Hers is one the year's best as well. 

"The Edge of Seventeen" begins somewhere in the middle of the story.
Steinfeld's teen drama queen supreme Nadine interrupts her favorite
teacher Mr. Brunner played by Woody Harrelson, "I'm gonna kill myself"
After a deadpan stare, Mr. Brunner reads Nadine his own drafted suicide
note. Too funny. Steinfeld artfully invents Nadine as worthy of love,
even when she says the vilest things. She tells literally her only
friend in the world Krista (big hearted Hailey Lu Richardson) to choose
between her and Nadine's brother Darian (dashing and surprising Blake
Jenner). On the ferris wheel ride with Korean American Erwin
(good-looking and whimsical Hayden Szeto), the charming animation nerd
who is so in love with Nadine, she spews out a comical stereotype rift
about of his parents. Then she admits, "All of it was racist." Craig
and Steinfeld compassionately walk that fine line with inspired humor. 

At a defining story arc, following a drunken indulgence Nadine weeps to
Krista, "I've got to spent the rest of my life...with myself." This is
heartbreaking. Her self-loathing is visceral and sad. Growing up in her
eyes, older brother Darian was her parents' favorite. Not at all his
fault. She constantly clashed with her Mom Mona (Kyra Sedgwick), who
just did not 'get her'. Fortunately, her Dad Tom (patient and kind Eric
Cooper) was not so much the buffer between Nadine and her Mom, rather
the only one who could calm the fear deep in Nadine. As Nadine narrates
everything tragically altered when she was 13 years old. She was with
her Dad when he unexpectedly passed way. 

Now 17 years old Nadine is a junior in high school and in seemingly
self imposed exile with her only friend Krista (Richardson). Darian
(Jenner) is the high school teenage godhandsome, smart, popular, and
captain of the football team. Mona (Sedgwick) is the overwhelmed single
Mom, venturing in the perils of on-line dating, and grateful for
raising her perfect son. Nadine yearns for "hot" mysterious loner Nick
(Alexander Calvert), who works at the local Pet Land. She indifferently
dismisses Erwin (Szeto), who wears the crush for her on his sleeve.
History teacher Mr. Brunner (Harrelson) is Nadine's only adult
confidant and caustic reality check. 

Hailee Steinfeld is radiant, pretty, and killer smart as Nadine. She
wears the uniform skirt and cool shoes as eclectic couture. Outwardly,
she would not occur as social pariah. Steinfeld naturally realizes her
social outcast with Nadine's merciless words and her tragic refusal to
love herself. All are armor to cover the hurt buried within her. 

Waking up from a hangover, Nadine catches Krista 'handling' Darian in a
bedroom tryst. Nadine reacts like Nadine, and life spirals out of
control. She loses her only friend. Her desired rendezvous materializes
and is nearly costlystrikingly and gently envisioned by Craig and
Steinfeld. On the bright side she begins to see the wonderful guy in
Erwin. Now if she could only just 'shut up' long enough. Nadine's words
have a mind of their own: both a curse and an expression of her
miraculous being. 

Director and Writer Craig eloquently has Nadine's back. Darian and
Krista might have been revealed as selfish jerks. Instead Jenner and
Richardson only have unconditional love for Nadine. Jenner is
impressively strong in the scene with his Mom. He reminds that though
she is the only adult in the house, she calls him when there is
trouble. The theater was silent as he and Nadine say, "Good night."
Sedgwick's vulnerability strengthens the desperation and spirit of
their Mom. Szeto is disarmingly brave and humorously clumsy as Erwin,
who really sees Nadine's beautiful soul. Harrelson is subtle comic
genius, and anchors "The Edge of Seventeen". As Mr. Brunner, we like
Nadine underestimate him. Harrelson's hysterical cynicism masks the
most generous soul. He sees the possibility of greatness in Nadine,
even though she can't, yet. 

"The Edge of Seventeen" is a wonderful surprise. Hailee Steinfeld is
witty and boldly human as Nadine reluctantly emerges as the hero in her
own story. Her performance is raw we feel her agony, fear, and joy. We
pull for her Nadine to love thine own self. Above all Nadine deserves
to love and be loved. We can all see the possibility of this for
ourselves as well. "The Edge of Seventeen" is one of the best movies of
the year. Thank you, Hailee and Kelly. You've done great.
