
"Zombadings 1: Patayin sa Shokot si Remington" is an indie film that
got picked up for wide release because of audience appeal and good word
of mouth. At first I was not really planning to watch it because of the
strange subject matter, but curiosity got the better of me because of
the hype. I thought that this movie would be a comedy- horror film. But
it turned out to be more comedy than horror. In fact, there is hardly
an horror to this film at all. It is just LOL lowbrow comedy! It does
have an impressive behind-the-scenes credentials, with Jade Castro (of
"Endo") as director-writer, with Raymond Lee (of "Endo" and "In My
Life")and Michiko Yamamoto (also of "Endo" and "Maximo Oliveros") as
the co-writers.

Remington has been teasing gay people since he was a kid. One day he
teased the wrong gay guy (Roderick Paulate) who cursed him that he will
turn gay when he grows up (they were not very specific when). 15 years
later, gays in their community in Lucban, Quezon were being killed off
by a serial killer. At about the same time, Remington (Mart Escudero)
had been having dreams that he was being attacked by a muscle-bound
assailant. Upon waking up from those dreams, he would also slowly be
turning into a screaming gay himself! How can Remington now continue
courting pretty Hannah (Lauren Young) while he is at the same time
falling for his best friend Jigs (Kerbie Zamora)? Can the spell still
be broken to restore Remington back to straight-hood?

Martin Escudero is the revelation in this movie because he successfully
straddled that tenuous balance between straight and gay. His gay
actuations and manner of speaking were so realistic. Excellent movie
debut, if he is indeed straight. Lauren Young is also a very pretty and
promising young actress. Aside from Paulate, there was a proficient
all-star cast supporting the young ing√©nues, with Janice de Belen and
John Regala as Remington's role-reversed parents (Janice as police
officer while John tends their carinderia), Daniel Fernando and Leandro
Baldemor as Regala's creepy drinking buddies and Eugene Domingo as
Hannah's ditzy roller-skating mom. Everything was done tongue-in-cheek,
all in the name of fun. Save for those few sticky moments between
Remington and Jigs on the stairs, this is still a very entertaining
indie film overall. Yes, despite those grotesque gay zombies.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes it's necessary to spend a mindless Sunday afternoon catching
up on movies. I was ready for that with a couple of friends as we
caught up on a contemporary Filipino flick entitled "Zombading", but it
was anything but mindless. The title is an English-Filipino amalgam of
the words "zombie" and "bading" (pronounced bah-ding) which is a
Filipino "slang" translation for "gay". These are my thoughts on the
Filipino indie otherwise known as "Gay Zombies". 

Set in the provincial town of Lucban, in the Quezon region of the
Philippines, the story opens with a precocious little boy who
habitually taunts gays by pointing and yelling "Bakla! Bakla! Bakla!"
(the non-slang Filipino translation for "gay"). The Filipino language
rivals English in its descriptiveness and synonymical flexibility
wherein one thing can be described in so many ways. However, the word
"bakla" unfortunately weighs heavier on the derogatory side and has no
positive counterpart. It rolls off the tongue with the ease of sucking
on a lemon before downing one's tequila shot. Much like the young boy
of our story named Remington, many easily use the word "bakla" to
categorize, ostracize, and demonize gays in the Philippines. But I
digress.

While at a cemetery, young Remington pokes fun at a grieving mannish
"widow", and the wrong one at that. What turns out to be a mourning gay
witch Pops Ricafuerte (excellently played by Roderick Paulate) curses
the young boy into a life of homosexuality at the strike of his twenty
first birthday. The film places us fifteen years later when Remington
(now played by Martin Escudero) experiences the perfectly realistic
conflict of a budding relationship with his girlfriend Hannah (played
by Lauren Young) being strangely derailed by inexplicable urges towards
his childhood best friend Jigs (played by Kerbie Zamora). 

When his increasing feminine mannerisms/symptoms alarmingly jog his
memory to the first utterance of this curse, he is aided by both
girlfriend and best friend to seek out this witch from the past in the
hopes of a reversal. After a hyperbolic catfight akin to Filipino
dramas, the widowed witch extends her kindness and helps the sexually
confused boy. Of course the answer only comes from a seance complete
with campy dance club beats and an apparition of spirits in the form of
mythological half buffalo, half gogo dancing boys clad in speedos. The
spirits advise that his only escape from the curse is finding a
replacement by the eve of his twenty-first birthday ~ a sacrificial
virgin if you will ~ but more appropriately a heterosexual male who was
a virgin to gay experiences. 

Seeking out potential replacements by asking a group of heterosexual
male friends which of them haven't had gay experiences may be far
fetched. Yet this prompts a comically poignant silence and an isolated
one out of ten who raises his hand. Nevertheless, many a manly man in
their circle of friends own up to their masculine preference for the
same sex. In his rapidly changing state, Remington questions whether
this was a indeed a curse or a twist of fate that he needed to accept,
while Hannah fights for the man she loves by lobbying to find the
"cure". (Taking a second here to say hooray to a well posed conflict
despite the incredulous story line!)

While Hannah selflessly encourages Remington's happiness, no matter
what his choice may be, they were still without a sacrifice. Their
obstacle is cleverly wedged by a sci-fi subplot of murders terrorizing
their small town. A serial killer on the loose was targeting
hairdressers and frying them with a GayDar. This was not only the
murder weapon which emits colorful rays that toasts its victims, but
also a bedazzled hair dryer scientifically created to identify
homosexuality within animals for the propagation of rural farming. This
golden gay gun clearly fell into the hands of the murderer who we later
learn to be the town's highly masculine advocate for family values
(insert your favorite conservative politician here). With Remington's
witching hour rapidly approaching, the horror of murdered victims-now-
zombies were rising from the ground and running amok, preying on
townspeople including (surprise) the male lover of said serial killer.
In an unguarded grieving moment, the self-hater himself falls prey to
the low budget stun gun which points to his direction in a Ouija board
fashion, and fires the gay ray of death. Whew!

Having eradicated the source of anti-gay sentiments and battled some
seriously grotesque gay zombies, Remington's transformation into full
femininity was nearly complete as evidenced by the similarly eclipsed
moon. Though slightly predictable, the winning and most unusual
deux-ex-machina/resolution comes with a most loving sacrifice from this
young man's father Ed (played by the uber masculine John Regala). And
by "winning" I mean the writer's positive political statement made thru
the character of Ed in his final moments as a straight man to save his
son: "I want you to be happy. You're just on your way, whereas I've
been and back. And it doesn't mean I can't be your father even if I am
gay." What normally would've been a cue of heart tugging music in
typical Filipino dramas was a whirlwind of enveloping neon lights
dissolving the scene to the morning after when a news team questioning
bystanders.

Perhaps I gleaned way more than what was intended to be a lighthearted
comedy with a touch of the widely known Filipino horror genre. But I've
noticed that just like the brilliant "My Househusband: Ikaw Na" (also
from 2011), "Zombading" turns stereotypes on their heads, re- examines
them thru poignant role reversals and leaves its audience excited for
the possibilities of a more tolerant and open minded generation.
