
My wife suggested we go see this movie, after all, you have to work
really hard to spoil something with De Niro, Keaton and Robin Williams
in it, right?

Well, apparently not. Just throw together a completely meaningless
plot, fill it with a couple awkward sexual scenes, remove any hint of
real feeling or nuance, and then fill what's left with numerous clichés
that are worthy of a B porno flick - and you will get some idea of what
"The Big Wedding" is like.

It's another one in the long and sadly ever-growing line of Hollywood
fiascoes, built on the premise that it's enough to throw together a
bunch of star actors to get a blockbuster. It's not. The feeling you
get is that the film's budget was spent on securing the big hitters,
and then a couple of hundred bucks that were left were given to some
sex-obsessed teenager in high school, to write the plot. 

As a result, this movie which claims to be a comedy, is a farce, a
farce of what a comedy should be. After watching for a little over an
hour, I left without finishing it. It was super boring, predictable and
entirely unimpressive. Don't waste your time watching this grotesque
concoction of nothing.
<|_=00=_|>
'Valentines Day,' 'New Year's Eve,' 'Love Actually,' etc. etc., all
movies with 'stellar' casts that were barely watchable. Well, this one
tops even those. Absolutely horrendous script that had my wife
chuckling a few times but me wondering when this tripe would end. I
can't imagine how embarrassed the performers would be if they were
forced to sit and watch it. I honestly don't know how movies like this
get made, especially with such casts. The only thing I can think of is
that it gives the actors a quick payday without having to work very
hard, so who can blame them really. I'm glad we went to the cheap
matinée.

In short, the jokes are all sex-related and not funny, many of the
lines seem to have been bad ad-libs, one character speaks in subtitles
in a poor attempt to add sophistication to the movie (and she's very
annoying at that), and you couldn't care less what happens to any of
the characters. Oh, and it has Amanda Seyfried and Kathryn Heigle,
who's tracks to stardom are proof that God exists.

If you're reading this after the fact, I feel your pain.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Big Wedding" seems to be following in the footsteps of the recent
Hollywood romantic comedies  gather as many big name stars as you can
and put them all in a romantic comedy storyline. It's the best of the
bunch, even though that's not saying anything at all. It's also based
on a French film "Mon frère se marie", and that's not really saying all
that much either.

Any description of the plot is just going to read as a listing of who's
who of Hollywood. But let's do it anyways: We have the patriarch and
matriarchs (Robert De Niro and Diane Keaton and Susan Sarandon); we
have the up-and-comers excited for their big day (Ben Barnes and Amanda
Seyfried); and then we have the middle siblings who have had their time
in the spotlight and are starting to fade away (Topher Grace and
Katherine Heigl).

The wedding revolves around lies (obviously) and religion - with Robin
Williams as the drunken Catholic priest. And it also includes lots and
lots of sex jokes. The surprising thing that audiences are taking away
from this film, especially in spite of the decidedly negative critics'
responses, is that it is hilarious. Fans of the film will find
themselves laughing from beginning to end. But to give you fair
warning, all of the jokes are sexually-based, and I mean all of them.

Laughing at the Catholic stigma of don't have sex but if you do, don't
be safe; laughing at people who have too much sex; laughing at people
who don't have sex; and worse of all, laughing at divorced and married
couples who have sex with one another. While some of the jokes were
funny, they're also responsible for creating the uneasy dynamic amongst
the characters  all of whom are family (or, at least, are about to
become in-laws). At times the film crosses the line from funny
dysfunctional family to repulsive dysfunctional family.

The one line that "The Big Wedding" straddles well is that between
comedy and drama. The film is effective when it moves from funny jokes
to touching family honesty and back to some more funny jokes. The story
lines are very predictable, and sometimes the jokes are too simple and
too wrong, but it tries to add in the right amount of drama, and
ultimately, it should be entertaining to fans of the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
The Big Wedding (2013) 

** (out of 4)

An all-star cast does what they can for this romantic comedy but sadly
it's not nearly enough. Robert DeNiro and Diane Keaton play a former
married couple who finds their adopted son about to be married. The
only problem is that his real mother is very strict and wouldn't
approve of his in-laws not being married so the two plan to pretend
that they're still married, which causes trouble with the father's
girlfriend (Susan Sarandon). THE BIG WEDDING features not only those
three Oscar-winners but we've also got Robin Williams playing a priest
and the supporting cast includes the likes of Katherine Heigl, Amanda
Seyfried and Topher Grace. With that cast it seems like we'd have
something special here but that's not the case because the screenplay
is just too silly, tame and boring for it to work. I love the cast and
they helped keep me interested in the movie but they simply don't have
anything to work with, which then begs the question as to why they
agreed to be in it. The problem is that the screenplay gives us so many
"stories" going on and none of them are all that interesting. You have
love triangles, pregnancy issues, virgin issues, speaking issues and
countless other family issues and none of them are funny. You have
jokes aimed at Catholics and various sex jokes but these to are
unfunny. The film tries to be somewhat raunchy but even these jokes are
just too tame to work and especially in this current state of raunchy
comedies. There are a few funny moments throughout and it's usually the
cast member's charm that is making it. The cast members do what they
can but no one here is delivering Oscar-worthy performances. Seeing
DeNiro, Keaton and Sarandon acting together is fun but one really
wishes the material had been better. Heigl adds nothing to the film and
even Seyfried and Grace are pretty much given nothing to do but stand
in the background. THE BIG WEDDING has a big cast but very little else.
At best this is for fans of the cast members but even them will just
want to save this for a very cheap ticket or a free rental.
<|_=00=_|>
I do not understand the rating of 5.4 (at the time of writing) nor the
very poor review of one of the contributors. My partner and I saw this
film last night and found it one of the funniest films in years. And,
judging by the laughter, most of the audience agree. Bear in mind that
for a majority of the audience English is not their first language
either.

A word of caution for prudes. There are three scenes of a highly sexual
nature that are extremely funny for those who are not.

This is another in the growing trend of using mature actors and it is
good to see Diane Keaton and Susan Sarendon in starring roles where
some years back they would have disappeared from our screens. Robert De
Niro is excellent, as ever and Robin Williams in the smaller part of
the quartet of Oscar winners, made this a foursome of very funny
performances.

The rest of the cast also turned in fine performances and I think they
must have had lots of fun making the film. We go to the cinema for one
reason only - to be entertained. I heard no complaints from the rest of
the audience as we left. No Oscar winners here but high marks for fun.

The scenery is also quite magnificent.
<|_=00=_|>
This gentle comedy may prove too tame for a younger crowd, whilst
perhaps being too vulgar for its, presumably older target audience. One
therefore wonders just who will be taking this very predictable comedy
to their hearts. A very lazy effort indeed, from the moment the story
unfold, you know exactly where it is going. I laughed only once or
twice during a thankfully short 89 minutes. It may be one of the better
Columbia/America cross cultural misunderstanding films of the past few
years, and probably De Niro's best work since Rocky and Bullwinkle, but
the only saving grace for me was the aesthetic appeal of Ana Ayora. I
had to watch Raging Bull when I got back from seeing this to remind
myself that Robert De Niro used to make great films.
<|_=00=_|>
The wedding is small. The cast is big. Great performances all around.
Exactly what you expect from these seasoned professionals. They seemed
to be having a good time.

A sitcom premise, adds some nudity and language to lift it to movie
worthy. A great opening set piece with the three major stars. If you
talk on a diving board is there any doubt your going into the pool?

Beautiful photography of a beautiful setting. A good score helps too.

It may not be the best of the "wedding comedy genre", but it is an
entertaining, feel good movie. It is always good to see a family more
messed up then your own. Eat some popcorn and enjoy the show.
<|_=00=_|>
A few funny moments, but overall a waste of time....my wife actually
proposed me to watch Iron Man 3 instead....but i was being a "good"
husband and said: "No honey, you wanted to watch this one". 

Halfway through the movie we both agreed that Iron Man would be a
better alternative....

So, i'm not against sexual humor (like for example The Hangover) but
this one i would recommend you all to skip...

Peace out :)

BTW i don't like being forced to write 10 lines, unless the movie i am
commenting on is worth it :p
<|_=00=_|>
Given the premise (deduced from the trailer) and the title I was
thinking of skipping 'The Big Wedding' but it's got Hollywood's finest
actors like Robin Williams, Susan Sarandon, Diane Keaton and Robert de
Niro. Surely, the film is at least worth a watch for their performance,
right? Well, a more appropriate title for the movie would have been
'The Big Disaster In the Name of a Movie'. Yes, it's messy, silly
and...not funny. 'the Big Wedding' was sold as a romantic comedy
wedding flick but the 'jokes' appear forced, desperate and lack
originality. Moreover it pokes fun at Catholics, free spirited people
and divorced couples. The aforementioned talented actors are wasted
which is a real shame. The younger cast's performance ranges from
average to poor. The set and outdoor sceneries provide some nice
eye-candy. Loaded with clichés, pretending to be funny and wasting
talents, this expensive film is kind of...well, trash.
<|_=00=_|>
For full disclosure, I don't like these kind of movies. I only watch
them when my wife asks me too. While I don't like these kinds of
movies, there have been movies like this that while I did not enjoy, I
could see why it was a good movie, be it in the script, acting, story,
etc., so I am not totally biased. 

That being said, this movie sucked. Yes, most movies are fiction, but
there has to be some sort of believability with the plot and
interactions among the characters. This had none of that. It was a bad
script along with unfunny sex jokes. I know I know, I must be a prude
because I didn't find the sex jokes funny right? Ehh wrong. People like
to say: "you are prude/offended if you didn't find the sex/racist jokes
funny." I read it all the time. The bottom line is that they just
weren't funny. It had nothing to do with the subject matter, it was
just lack of thought and effort.
