
"You know this story. The crackling lightning. The mad genius. An
unholy creation."

And so opens up the lastest interpretation of Mary Shelley's legendary
novel-turned-pop culture myth. So, what does this version add to the
time-tested tale? Surprisingly, a fair amount.

An amalgamation of various film versions (taking most of its cues from
Universal and Hammer), this film tells the origins of Victor
Frankenstein through the eyes of a nameless hunchback who, after a
quick and very nasty surgery, is dubbed Igor. It tells the story of how
the world around Victor reacts to his experiments, from the conniving
entrepeuneur to the over-zealous man of faith trying to stop him. 

And how does it all hold up? Again, surprisingly really well. The
chemistry between Daniel Radcliffe and James McAvoy sparks the film up
quite a few notches while Andrew Scott, Jessica Brown Findlay and
Freddie Fox all make good work of their admittedly under-developed
supporting roles.

The direction by Paul McGuigan is energetic and lively, even if the
pace is a tad too frenetic at times. The use of practical effects for
the monstrosities that our heroes bring to life are impressive to
behold and everything is boasted by a powerfully theatrical score by
Craig Armstrong and some beautiful production design by Eve Stewart. 

As I said, pacing is a tad too fast and certain bits of writing
could've used some tweaking, but the cast and enthusiastic direction
definitely make this a more than worthy entry into the Frankenstein
mythos that I will gladly welcome into my collection as soon as it
makes its to Blu-Ray/DVD.

I'm pleased to say that it is very much alive.
<|_=00=_|>
"You know this story. A crack of lightning. A mad genius. An unholy
creation," intones Daniel Radcliffe's Igor Strausman, who warns us at
the start not to expect a literal re-telling of Mary Shelley's beloved
horror classic. Instead, as imagined by writer Max Landis, this latest
spin focuses on the relationship between the titular mad genius 
played by James McAvoy  and his trusty associate Igor who becomes
instrumental to his dream of re-animating the dead. Yes, though Victor
first meets Igor as a nameless hunchback at the circus, the latter is
in fact a gifted physician whose knowledge of the human anatomy makes
him invaluable to Victor's plan of assembling various organs into an
outer shell and introducing life into it.

But even before that, Victor recognises something special in the filthy
clown with the rat's nest of a hair who rushes to the aid of a trapeze
artist Lorelei (Jessica Brown Findlay) following a near- fatal fall
during a show and manipulates her bones in order to save her life. So
Victor decides to give the destitute sad-sack a new lease of life by
first busting him out of the circus, where at his cavernous home cum
laboratory, he proceeds to drain the fluid from the young man's massive
abscess, fit him with a back brace, and give him the name of his absent
flatmate Igor whom Victor says is a morphine addict who has not been
seen for months. Igor is indebted to Victor, and so without much
question, assists his 'saviour' in his experiment to bring life to a
homunculus stitched from animal- part discards from the local zoo.

If you're waiting for the iconic hulking man-monster to appear, let us
warn you that you'll have to wait until the very finale, which takes
place on a very stormy evening in a remote Scottish castle right next
to the sea. Indeed, this is less a movie about Victor actually creating
his monster and what happens afterward than about the process leading
up to that pivotal moment, which its director Paul McGuigan centres on
a debate between theology and technology as well as an emotional
complement in the bond between Victor and Igor. To introduce the former
into the narrative, McGuigan interrupts the scientific proceedings with
the entry of a moralistic Scotland Yard detective (Andrew Scott), whose
past has not only made him a man of unwavering faith but also obsessed
with stopping Victor's experiments he perceives as Satanic.

It is also this said inspector who causes Igor to question Victor's
research, especially in the wake of Victor's Royal College of Medicine
presentation of his first hodgepodge Prometheus which unsurprisingly
does not end well. Not unsurprising too is how Victor is constructed as
both the emotional and moral centre of the film  though he starts off
subservient to Victor, Igor struggles with the ethical implications of
using science to achieve immortality, which ultimately leaves him
conflicted with the dilemma of sticking by the person who had rescued
him from eternal ignominy or following his own conscience. Igor also
finds his heart with Lorelei, who makes a somewhat amazing recovery to
help Igor find his centre of being.

Though the romance is contrived, McAvoy and Radcliffe are actors with
charm and gravitas, and they make good use of both qualities to keep us
engaged in their bromance. McAvoy overdoes the mad-genius bit on more
than one occasion, but is on the whole appropriately brash and obsessed
to play the brilliant, extroverted yet socially bizarre Victor. At
least Radcliffe complements his partner with a nicely understated
performance, which expresses his character's anguished, good-hearted
and conflicted nature at various points. Next to Victor, Igor is a much
more straightforward persona, but Radcliffe does what he can to make us
empathise with the latter's plight.

On his part, McGuigan keeps a tight balance between horror, drama,
romance and even a few spots of comedy, while ensuring that the pace
doesn't sag. No stranger to Victorian-era London from directing several
episodes of 'Sherlock', he forgoes more handsome evocations for a more
grimy and downbeat vision of 19th-century London that is more befitting
of the grotesqueness of Victor's creations. Oh yes, despite the rating,
you'd do well to note that some images are absolutely not for the
squeamish, in particular because the film does not shy away from
displaying the various organs of the body which Victor uses to assemble
his unhuman work of science.

As an origin story, you could do much, much worse than 'Victor
Frankenstein', which is loud and messy all right, but has a quieter,
more grounded centre on its arguments of faith versus science as well
as a compelling relationship between its two lead characters. That's
provided of course that you're willing to accept a revisionist take in
the first place, with Frankenstein played as a soulless hulk that is
prone to violence but nothing more and relegated almost to an
afterthought right at the end. Like we said, this isn't about the
monster as we typically know it, but the journey leading up to its
creation, one that is undeniably intriguing in itself.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. If a filmmaker is going to mess with
the classics, there are two paths of creativity from which to choose:
stay true to the original, or put a new spin on it. In this case, the
classics in question are the nearly 200 year old novel from Mary
Shelley (1818) and the nearly 85 year old movie from James Whale
(1931). The filmmakers doing the messing are director Paul McGuigan
(Lucky Number Slevin) and screenwriter Max Landis (son of director
John). The spin they chose was (in theory) to tell the story from the
perspective of Igor, the loyal assistant to Dr. Frankenstein.

It's an interesting approach, but one that immediately presents a
problem  since the title they chose was not "Igor", but rather Victor
Frankenstein. The film does begin with Igor's backstory in the circus
as a hunchbacked clown/amateur doctor, and the character does provide
some early and late narration. The conundrum stems from the fact that
pretty much everything else in the movie is centered on the mad
scientist, rather than the skilled apprentice/partner.

Daniel Radcliffe plays Igor and James McAvoy plays Victor Frankenstein
(not Fron-kin-steen, in a nod to Mel Brooks), and both actors seem to
be doing everything possible to bring energy and enthusiasm to a movie
that can't seem to decide if it's a reboot or a reimagining or simply
an origin story. Radcliffe effectively uses his physicality as the
circus clown who is so mistreated and misunderstood, and McAvoy is such
a hyper-active mad scientist that I'm sure his fellow actors many times
were inclined to advise "say it, don't spray it". McAvoy does seem to
be having a grand old time playing the brilliant yet unhinged young
doctor-to-be, and to his credit takes a much different approach than
Colin Clive when he gets to the infamous line "It's ALIVE!" The best
parts of the movie are the intricate and amazing sets, the monster
himself (albeit too brief), and the expert use of classical music and
film score. The circus sets are colorful and active, while
Frankenstein's soap factory home/laboratory is fascinating and
creative, and the final Scotland castle on a cliff is breath-taking.
Pulleys, chains and cranks are everywhere  as is an incredible amount
of body parts, organs and fluids.

After a very well done circus opening, we are jarred with a seemingly
out of place action sequence involving a slo-motion chase and fight
scene that seems to be attempting to mimic some of the recent Sherlock
Holmes movie stunts. Here they are unwelcome and ruin the flow. Another
aspect that seems forced and unnecessary is a romantic interlude
between Igor and a trapeze artist (played by Jessica Brown Findlay). It
feels like an add-on to remind us that it's supposed to be Igor's
story. Additionally, Andrew Scott plays an intriguing Scotland Yard
Inspector who is every bit as obsessed with his faith-based beliefs as
Victor is with his science-has-no-bounds stance. A story told from the
Inspector's perspective might have worked, but instead it comes across
as another add-on. Another add-on is the filthy rich and very devious
fellow med student (played by Freddie Fox) who agrees to fund the
experiments, but mostly the character is an after-thought necessary to
move the plot along. Wasted is the always menacing Charles Dance, who
has but one scene as Victor's strongly disapproving daddy.

A combination of the romance, minimal role of Igor in the grand finale,
the medical school bumbling, the clunky Inspector involvement, and the
all too brief monster appearance makes the film all but impossible for
viewers to connect. They tell us twice "You know the story  a crack of
lightning, a mad genius, and an unholy creation", but the reality is,
the fact that we know the story, makes this one all the more
disappointing. It's fun to look at, but is lacking the depth and soul
that has allowed Shelley's book to stand up over two centuries.
<|_=00=_|>
Perhaps the Frankenstein name is indeed cursed, there hasn't been a
great Frankenstein based movie in years, even decades. From last year's
I, Frankenstein to Van Helsing who only has it as subplot, all have met
mediocre fate. Now armed with robust acting power and visual that oozes
Victorian era, also a bit or horror and action attached somewhere,
another rendition shares the same exact fate; cinematic tediousness.

A slight modification to the narrative is made, just like Sherlock the
movie is narrated from the sidekick's perspective, in this case Igor's
(Daniel Radcliffe). Aside from that, there's barely anything new that
hasn't been done in similar or better fashion. To its credit, it's not
utterly terrible in term of presentation, in fact the visual is rather
nice. It's quaintly dark and electric version of last decade
metropolis, Tesla would approve.

James McAvoy as the titular Viktor really tries hard on establishing
the character. Given the stale material, he still manages to squeeze
some emotional scenes as well as a good chemistry with Radcliffe in a
bromantic kind of way. Andrew Scott from Moriarty fame, now plays the
role of Inspector Turpin. He's the polar opposite of Viktor,
conservative yet equally clever and ambitious.

Unfortunately, the far too familiar plot fails to produce any thrill,
the strong acting prowess ends up rehearsing the same routine of mad
scientist's banter. There's screaming, philosophical argument, faux
science and slight mental abuse by the two leads. It's a lot of noise
of little dramatic effect. Not that the script is bad in any way, it
has occasional witty lines although any hint of humor or charm is
muffled by the overly melancholy tone.

At some points, the movie tries to dabble in horror, action and even
romance subplot. The atmosphere is already primed for thriller, but the
shocking abomination is ironically timid and unmemorable. Action
consists of a few scenes of slow motions repetition. Despite the
production offering distractions, the main story line is very
straightforward and streamlined, and sadly also predictable.

For all the star and flair, though they might be mildly amusing, the
end product is a medium so lacking of life.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite what the trailers will try and tell you, "Victor Frankenstein"
is in fact a fairly straightforward, character-driven drama about the
relationship between mad scientist Victor Frankenstein (James McAvoy)
and his hunchbacked assistant Igor Strausman (Daniel Radcliffe) that
just happens to have a few monsters.

Rather than remake the classic story (or should I say monster), "Victor
Frankenstein" is a prequel revealing the origins of Dr. Frankenstein's
most famous experiment. Effectively filling the gaps provided by
Shelley's novel, this film provides a ghastly look at his first
hideous, soulless attempts at creating life, which predate the
sympathetic, flat-topped creature as portrayed by Boris Karloff that we
all know and love. That being said, this film owes much more to the
film adaptations of Frankenstein than the book itself. A tip-off is the
prominent inclusion of Igor, an invention not of Shelley's but of
Universal Studios, who cast the incomparable Dwight Frye as Fritz in
James Whale's "Frankenstein" (1931), which morphed in Ygor and finally
Igor in subsequent sequels and adaptations. 

Bearing a somewhat misleading title, the film is really Igor's story.
Working as a nameless freak in a circus due to his physical deformity
(which Radcliffe portrays brilliantly; he could be the next Lon Chaney
Sr.), he is a stranger to kindness until he meets Victor, who
recognizes his brilliant mind and vast medical knowledge. Igor is given
a new appearance, a new name, and a new life by his generous
benefactor, on the condition that he work as Victor's partner and
assistant, bringing his expertise to animating individual body parts
for use in the highly-strung medical student's unholy enterprise.
Victor, in his megalomania, as the "creator" of Igor, demands his
complete loyalty, something that is easy for the grateful younger man
to give until he strikes up a romance with Lorelei, the aerialist he
worshiped from afar during his time at the circus. Slowly, he begins to
see beyond his unwavering devotion to the disturbed madness of Victor's
mania for creating life out of death.

To add to the conflict, Victor and Igor find themselves being pursued
by the Javert-like Inspector Turpin (Andrew Scott), who, as a man as
consumed by his religion as Victor is by his rejection of it, refuses
to rest until he and his ungodly experiments are brought to an end.
This gives the film a chance to explore the cautionary message present
in Shelley's novel about trying to control to forces of nature in
further depth than simply showing the misbegotten monsters alone.

Visually, "Victor Frankenstein" is a treat. Turn-of-the-century London
is portrayed in equal parts glittery and grimy, with period-appropriate
costumes and hair adding to the effect. You can't have a "Frankenstein"
movie without a few dead bodies, and this film is not shy about showing
the various viscera, though it is all for a purpose and is far from
excessive, with much less blood, gore, and grotesqueness than I was
expecting. Much more is implied than actually shown in detail. As
someone who avoids modern horror films for their indulgence, I applaud
the filmmakers' restraint. The action scenes, which number precisely
four and take up less than a quarter of the film's one-hour and
forty-nine minute running time, are brief but intense, though rather
tame when compared with your average action movie. They give Radcliffe
a chance to utilize his gift for physicality, which he plays to the
fullest. 

Yet for all its trappings as a horror film, the heart of "Victor
Frankenstein" is the relationship between Victor and Igor. Both social
misfits, they find themselves appreciated for who they are for the
first time in their lives. It soon becomes very clear that Igor is the
only real friend Victor has in the world, and that the latter, for all
his grandiloquence, needs his lowlier creation more than Igor needs
him. The chemistry between Radcliffe and McAvoy is there and is what
makes the entire film tick. They both give equally strong performances
individually, with McAvoy perfectly capturing the monomaniacal,
socially awkward mad genius, a sharp complement to Radcliffe's soulful,
loyal, levelheaded partner, but together they are a powerhouse,
bringing delightful touches of humor and pathos to an otherwise rather
serious film. More than once I felt myself growing teary-eyed. How many
horror films can do that? 

As to the many negative reviews, I don't believe the critics and I
watched the same movie. The pacing and focus was tight, the acting
good, the film itself a rather straightforward drama with dashes of
horror and action thrown in rather than a mixed bag, and the various
subplots, rather than distracting from the main plot, came at the
appropriate times, and helped to move it along. The only faults I found
were the slight overuse of slow-motion in the action scenes, the rather
quirky choice of superimposing anatomical drawings over various
characters, and the script's occasionally on-the-nose dialogue (though
Radcliffe and McAvoy's sincere performances made them less noticeable),
but these are small qualms. Overall, there is much more to like than to
dislike.

My only explanation for all the hatred is that "Frankenstein" is a
revered novel with a strong literary following; critics came in
expecting a remake of the classic monster story, and after they were
disappointed at what they saw as a desecration of Mary Shelley's 1818
novel, they took their vengeance out on this film, which never
pretended to be an adaptation of that story in the first place. It goes
without saying that if you're expecting a faithful facsimile of
Shelley's novel or a 360-degree reinvention, you're in for a
disappointment, because "Victor Frankenstein" is neither. But if you
want to experience a well-acted, entertaining prequel to the classic
story, you're in for a real treat.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are wondering what different things can they do for this very
familiar story to make it worth watching - they do succeed in giving a
fresh perspective - Igor's The cast is likable and watchable. Daniel
Radcliffe is a good actor and his roles since Harry Potter are actually
show his range. The transformation from hunchback to Igor is quite an
extreme makeover. James McAvoy is a also a very convincing actor and
acts obsessed enough. Despite both actors being small sized they can
pull off a big action movie. Jessica Brown Findlay of Downton Abbey is
a pretty love interest (for Igor no less) and her role isn't
irritating.

The first resurrected creature and organs are quite morbidly
frightening for what they are.

The ending is grand but kind of wonder what did Victor expect once they
brought him to life? Anyway it's not necessary to look to deep into a
story like this.

Worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
We follow the story, mainly with Igor. Igor is taken in by Victor
Frankenstein; His life flips upside down, they become a team, and we,
the audience continue to follow the adventures, as well as embodiment
of these two characters, as they both create a scientific breakthrough.
Or in this case, reanimation. Honestly, I found this movie to be a
little misspoken for. I can see where many were expecting non - stop
occurrences with the reanimated creature we've all come to know and
love. Before anything else of this review, there is little of that. But
here's the thing, does that make this entire thing bad? No. This film
was actually creative, and quite good. First off, I honestly love the
charm, and creativity of this story. The entire execution of the film's
telling of this entire tale, I found to be flawless. The entire telling
fell within the amazing character chemistry between Igor, and Victor.
Which, by the way, both Daniel Radcliffe, and James McAvoy had amazing
chemistry together. You could watch, and feel the connection their
characters, if that, actors shared together. The characters in this
film, while on the topic, were all around great. I can't emphasize this
enough, horror, if that, thriller's now, usually have unlikeable
characters - But not here. This film has characters that you could
actually bare with, characters that'll you'll grow to, and actually
bond with, sharing feelings for their actions. Of course, however, you
have a small collection of characters you grow to dislike, but of
course by intend of the film itself. I personally found the entire,
overall plot, and storyline to be charming. I found the rescue, and
bonding of savior friendship between Igor, and Victor to be all around
charming, and just flat out awesome. It thrills us, audience, while at
the same time develop feelings for the characters. Moving to visual
elements, first of all, I honestly loved the entire visual effects of
this film. I felt as if it was beautiful, and succeeded in giving us a
flat out, solid display of the Victorian era, or in other words
steam-punk. It felt intriguing to look at, visual eye-candy as far as
the eye can see, giving an attention - grabbing effect. The camera work
compliments as well, giving us some pretty well placed shots of which
show the action sequences, as well as the meaningful ones. Lastly. I
honestly liked the creations. The re-animated figures looked distorted,
something they're supposed to succeed at. It didn't look cheap, and
honestly was great for the time they came around, with their grotesque
features, not too gory, or disgusting, but at the same time not too
light, or cheap. 

In conclusion, this film succeeds in a pleasant surprise. Once again, I
can see where people get disappointed, as we see barely any real
"Frankenstein" or in this case, the reanimated monster, at least not as
much as many may of expected. However, the film succeeded in dismissing
that, as we're giving many succeeding elements, including stunning
visual effects, great, likable characters. I fun, at the same time
thrilling story, and an overall unique charm that doesn't disappoint.
Although, as said before this wasn't a strong "horror" but for what it
was, aside the dismiss of the appearances of monsters, this was a fun
film, enjoyable, and over all fantastic. I'd highly recommend this one.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard not to be cynical about Hollywood sometimes, particularly
when it produces films as lazy as Victor Frankenstein, an uninspired
origin story of Victor Frankenstein and his assistant, Igor Straussman. 

Before a chance meeting with Victor Frankenstein (James McAvoy), a then
nameless Igor (Daniel Radcliffe) worked as both a clown and a
physician. A medical incident one night at the circus leads to their
first meeting and Igor becoming Victor's assistant.

Sharing a passion for medical science, the pair embark on a project to
bring about life from death. After a few mishaps, Igor feels they
should stop but Victor's drive to make a name for himself leads to the
most volatile creation that even he thinks is too far.

Right from the very beginning, Victor Frankenstein feels all over the
place. Paul McGuigan directs the film as if he hadn't made his mind up
on what sort of film this should be. Unfortunately, in the end he went
with an edgy modern retelling of a classic tale that brutally
highlights McGuigan's lack of imagination as a filmmaker.

Considering the acting talent in Victor Frankenstein makes it even more
of a disappointment. James McAvoy majorly hams it up as Victor, coming
across as a mix between Benedict Cumberbatch's Sherlock Holmes and
David Tennant's Doctor. Daniel Radcliffe, who I've never thought to be
a very good actor, takes a step backwards with his portrayal of Igor,
with awkward line delivery and no chemistry being his main problems
here.

They also manage to waste Andrew Scott, most famous for playing
Moriarty in BBC's Sherlock, as a police detective on the tail of
Victor. His character is so underwritten that Scott has little room to
manoeuvre and ends up delivering one hell of a monotonous performance.

Max Landis' story lacks any real punch and his script is daft yet not
totally void of quality which, considering the history of this story
that he had to work with, is a real shame. There are some good visual
effects that lead to some entertaining moments and Craig Armstrong's
score is a rare highlight in this ultimately disappointing film.

I pray to God that the last scene isn't one that means we are going to
get a sequel mind, because that is really what we could do without.
<|_=00=_|>
The opening shot, blurry, a figure moving in slow motion, brought to my
mind a scene in the book of the monster seen going across the snow-
covered landscape from a distance, ... but that is about as close to
the book as the film gets, which is both good and bad. It's good
because it tells an original take on the story, but it's also bad
because it tells a mostly satirical story, told from Igor's
perspective, largely poking fun at the clichés in the various film
versions of Frankenstein, rather than a faithful adaptation of the
novel.

James McAvoy hams it up as Victor Frankenstein, with a brilliant intro
("Might I know your name?" Igor asks him, Vic turns to look at Igor,
freeze frame, title appears) while the rest of the cast downplays it
nicely, Jessica Findlay is quite attractive, even in the unrevealing
Victorian-era clothing. The film is sightly more serious than its
comedic-looking trailer made it appear. Good sets and costumes, and
some quick witted, sharp dialogue, but the story never really comes
alive (pun totally intended)

Curiously released at Thanksgiving 2015, it might have fared better
than its $600.000 opening if it had been released at Halloween.
Considering this was filmed in late 2013, it surely must have been
ready for Halloween 2015, or 2014 for that matter.
<|_=00=_|>
There are no spoilers here, just a real person's true review. I almost
did not watch this due to the overall reviews, and that would have been
a shame, because I liked it. To all the naysayers looking for a solid
track to the original story, this is a bit different. This a a
completely different take. Parts of the movie were not so great, but
overall, I LOVED IT.Depends on what you're looking for. If you are
looking for a story perfectly true to original - not so much. This
movie is a wonderful alternative view. I appreciate and really enjoyed
the risk-taking and the different view. May not be for everyone, but
thoroughly enjoyed it.
