
I have so much to say about this gem that I'm not sure where to start
from. Let me just say that as soon as I heard Gutav Mahler's Adagietto
coming out of the Hollywood Bowl while the young virginal couple sit in
the car facing the moon, I was transported to Venice, the Venice of
Luchino Visconti in Death in Venice. Throughout the film Mahler's
Adagietto kept magically coming back so, for me, that's the film. Art
and commerce, too much and too little, life and death. Warren Beatty,
writer, director, producer also stars as Howard Hughes, a character
who's lived in Warren Beatty's mind for decades. He moved me. It was
clear why Hughes was a character that could allow Beatty to talk about
very personal things without having to do it in first person. - Mia
Farrow told Michael Caine between takes in Hannah And Her Sisters:
"Woody is telling me things through you" - Here Warren Beatty is
telling us things about him through Howard Hughes. A mass of
contradictions that can only be explained in the heart and mind of an
artist. I'm already a huge fan of Alden Ehrenreich right from Tetro and
here he is wonderful, tender and real. Lily Collins is new to me but
Annette Bening, well Annette Bening reminded me in her few minutes on
the screen that she is one of the greatest actresses we've got. Death
in Venice and the last image of Howard Hughes left me with a knot in my
throat. I will certainly see it again, just as sure that Rules Don't
Apply will be rediscovered in years to come.
<|_=00=_|>
I love Warren Beatty, I always have. First time I saw him in a movie
was in Bonnie and Clyde. For me his name had something magic. Splendor
In The Grass, The Roman Spring Of Mrs. Stone, Lilith. The beauty of the
man didn't seem to interfere with the character he was playing,
remember All Fall Down? I waited for Rules Don't Apply with feverish
anticipation, like I haven't waited for a movie since I was a kid. I
sat through it for the first time, amused, surprised and delighted. But
a few hours later the film started unreeling in my mind. Candice
Bergen? Did I see Candice Bergen playing a secretary, handing papers,
standing in the background, staring at the TV, on the phone? No, it
couldn't be. Candice Bergen for goodness sake, an American icon. The
thought muddled my memory of the film. I saw Rules Don't Apply again
last night. Yes, it was Candice Bergen. Wow! What one will do for
friends. On a second viewing I saw it as an unsentimental valentine to
what it was, with a hopeful wonderous future beyond us way beyond us.
I'll see it again soon and see what happens. Cheers Mr Beatty.
<|_=00=_|>
With Warren Beatty's Rules Don't Apply, there may be some high
expectations going in, and it's not because people are looking so
forward to finally seeing Alden Ehrenreich and Lily Collins in a (semi)
romantic coupling (though they are equal parts charming and serious in
this film, able to go to awkward comic moments and those Big Dramatic
Confrontation Moments in ways that are wonderful and surprising and
shows they have a good director at the helm). 

And it's not even because people may be clamoring for another movie
about the genius-cum-iconoclast-cum-megalomaniac Howard Hughes, since,
well, we should have practically everything we'd need to see in
Scorsese's The Aviator (which, by the way, these two movies share not
only a couple of set pieces, at very different time periods in history,
but Alec Baldwin too in a fairly important supporting role).

No, I know I expect more of Warren Beatty after an 18 year absence
(lets forget Town & Country for now) and the biggest problem is that he
had final cut and put something together that is 25% a choppily edited
mess. Whether he cut down for time, I'm sure I don't know, though
having *four* credited editors is never a great sign. 

Having said this, however, it's also a case where the parts are better,
more entertaining, more charming, more engaging, more... just MORE than
the whole, and one of Beattys underrated gifts as an actor and director
- off kilter comic timing and eccentricity - is on excellent display
here. It's a genuine if somewhat flawed and all over the place romantic
comedy with some genuinely moving overtones for being essentially
about... Being kind to people.

If this is his swan song, it could've been worse.
<|_=00=_|>
'RULES DON'T APPLY': Four Stars (Out of Five)

The new comedy-drama-romance from writer/director/star Warren Beatty;
Beatty hasn't directed (or written) a film since 1998's 'BULWORTH', and
he hasn't starred in a movie since 2001's 'TOWN & COUNTRY'. In this
film he plays the very eccentric, and extremely mentally ill,
billionaire Howard Hughes. The movie tells the story of an aspiring
young actress, and her driver (who both work for Hughes), that begin a
forbidden love affair (forbidden by Hughes). Beatty directed the film
and co-wrote it, with Bo Goldman (who also co-wrote such epic dramas
as'ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST' and 'SCENT OF A WOMAN'). The movie
also costars Alden Ehrenreich (the new Han Solo), Lily Collins, Matthew
Broderick, Annette Bening, Haley Bennett, Candice Bergen, Alec Baldwin,
Oliver Platt and Martin Sheen. It's received mixed reviews from
critics, and it bombed at the Box Office. I liked it though. 

Marla Mabrey (Collins) was an aspiring actress, that moved to Hollywood
(in 1958) to work for Howard Hughes (Beatty). Mabrey was a devout
baptist, from Virginia, that had never done so much as have a drink of
alcohol, or engage in premarital sex. She was accompanied by her strict
mother, Lucy (Bening). Right away Mabrey and her driver, Frank Forbes
(Ehrenreich), are immediately attracted to each other. Frank has a
fianc√© though, and an affair between the two is strictly prohibited (by
their employer, Hughes). Hughes' bizarre quirks, and severe mental
struggles, also cause challenges for their relationship. 

The movie is pretty interesting, and quite entertaining, at first; then
it loses it's way a little, but it does come to a pretty satisfying
conclusion. The performances are all good, especially Beatty in the
lead; Ehrenreich and Bennett (two very promising up- and-coming actors,
that I really like right now) are also good, but severely underused.
Beatty's direction is adequate enough, but the script definitely could
have used a few more rewrites. I still found the film to be mostly
amusing, and somewhat interesting. Howard Hughes was a very fascinating
person though, that deserves a much better movie ('THE AVIATOR' was
much better).

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1M9osPwjfbM
<|_=00=_|>
The movie greats should never grow old so they can use what they've
learned to keep making swell movies for us like Rules Don't Apply.

Mr. Beatty is of course unique. He does it all and had time for
enviable fun during his prolonged adolescence and now with his
formidable spouse Annette Bening. They were easy and fun with one
another at today's screening. Smart attractive very talented grownups.
Yes, they still exist.

Rules Don't Apply is very funny, if you pay attention. Old Hollywood
gets the shiv a bit but it's awfully nice to be back there. We
luxuriate in vintage cars and clothes and 50s sexual puritanism. The
leads are, as Mr. Beatty said today, honorable actors with integrity.
Nothing cheap or careless. We root for Alden Ehrenreich and Lily
Collins. Miss Bening is funny and tough as the ingenue's zealot Mom. A
ton of familiar faces get their moment. Apparently they like to work
for Mr. Beatty. His mind goes faster than almost anyone's making movies
so it's fun and satisfying to be swept along by his brilliance. As I
watch the world around me lowering its standards, I bask in the depth
of talent and pure entertainment in Rules Don't Apply. More please.
<|_=00=_|>
Warren Beatty, who I consider to be a true Hollywood legend and quite
an icon, has always impressed me with his body of work. I have always
admired him as an actor and maybe even more so as a writer/director. As
many of you know, he has not directed a film since 1998's Bulworth and
not acted in a film since Town and Country in 2001. Over the years
there was always some talk about Beatty perhaps making a comeback film
and emerge from the shadows and quietness of what at the time seemed to
be almost like a retirement from the movie business for him. It had
been speculated for years that he was planning on doing a film about
Howard Hughes, and not only till a few years ago was the project
actually green-lighted and news was that they had a cast and that
Beatty would not only be starring in the film, but also having written
the screenplay and was going to serve as director. This was very
promising news to a fan like me because unfortunately I had never been
able to see one of his films on the big screen, so I was hoping this
one would be my first. The first trailer for the film emerged during
the Summertime when you had your big budget films on display and while
the trailer looked a little different than what Beatty has done before,
I still felt that it looked like a film with promise and I was bound
and determined to see it on the big screen when it arrived. Now as I am
writing this, I have just come from a screening for his new film, Rules
Don't Apply, and I must say that I was anticipating a light screwball
comedy that would be more fun than anything else, but what I got was a
film that will definitely be in my top 10 list by the end of the year
and was another film that far exceeded all my expectations and turned
out to be one of the year's best. The film's trailer truly did not do
it justice and unfortunately a lot of the mainstream film critics are
giving it average to mostly lukewarm ratings, which if I have to be
honest, I don't truly understand and perhaps they saw a different film
than I did. The other unfortunate thing is that Rules Don't Apply, is
flopping at the box office and is going to lose the studio a lot of
money much like Town and Country did back in 2001, which is why I
initially thought that Beatty had retired from movies. Do not let any
of this deter you whatsoever from seeing this great film though. I
simply say this more as unfortunate news and to further add to the
argument that what is popular and does well at the box office these
days has no accounting for any artistic merit and what are sometimes
fantastic films will unfortunately flop and not connect, or appeal to
today's audiences. I think that alone is one of the key elements why
this film is not doing well, simply because a millennial audience, who
in a lot of ways controls what is big and what does well at the box
office would simply not be able to connect with this film on any level.
Many of those viewers would not know who Howard Hughes is, or really
care for that matter and for a lot of them they unfortunately have
probably never heard of Warren Beatty, or seen any of his films either.
Also a period piece film that is far more intelligent than what the
trailer would seem, would simply not appeal and go far beyond this
audience's limited and sometimes unfortunately dull attention span.
Luckily for anyone else who loves a good film, you are in for a real
treat here. Beatty is back in full force delivering a brilliant
performance that at times includes elements of a comedic nature, but
also in a way he slyly pokes fun at Hughes and even his own past
reputation as a playboy who was promiscuous and not altogether with
what was going on. Beatty's Hughes is a man who clearly has done some
very admirable things for his shareholders and business people, but as
a man his values and what he stands for are not very reputable and also
in some ways it could be argued that he may have early dementia, or
something that is causing him to act and behave very strangely. The
Howard Hughes story is interesting enough on it's own, but also as a
bonus we are given a story just as interesting about two young people
who are trying to make it in Hollywood, and how in a sense their
personal beliefs, values and everything they stand for is ruined not
only because of the Hollywood system, but also because of people like
Hughes himself. The film has many laughs, but in an interesting
contrast it also has darker elements that all balance out and work
beautifully for the film. The film is far beyond entertaining and it
also adds a fair bit of food for thought about one's actions and the
role models and goals that we have and the things that can
unfortunately cloud, or pollute them. This is the best ensemble cast
performance I have seen this year and everybody is absolutely
fantastic. Also the attention to details, costumes, makeup, music and
the script and direction by Beatty is all top notch and among the
year's best. I hope this does signal a comeback for Beatty because here
he proves he still has so much talent to offer and I hope this will not
be his last film, but many more will follow. One of the year's absolute
best and a very misunderstood film.
<|_=00=_|>
Without a doubt, Howard Hughes was one of the most eccentric and
enigmatic figures of the 20th century. A billionaire who went into the
movie business, he left his mark on a number of industries. Martin
Scorsese focused on part of Hughes's career with "The Aviator". Now
Warren Beatty does so with "Rules Don't Apply". This one looks at a
relationship between one of Hughes's starlets and her driver in the
1950s. It's not a great movie, but infinitely better than Beatty's last
movie, the crime against humanity "Town & Country" (which rivaled Woody
Allen's worst movie "Everyone Says I Love You" in being an obnoxious
fetishization of neurotic New Yorkers having affairs with each other).

The only thing that drags this movie down is the appearance of two
people: Steve Mnuchin (as a banker) and Louise Linton (as a potential
starlet). They're now husband and wife. He's Treasury Secretary, while
she Instagrammed a photo of herself and tagged the designers, and
proceeded to make a let-them-eat-cake remark when a woman criticized
her use of a government plane for travel (this was after she published
a book purporting to tell of a year that she spent in Zambia, but the
entire nation of Zambia disdained it as a promotion of the white savior
trope).

Anyway, it's a good movie otherwise. Aside from Beatty, it stars Lily
Collins, Annette Bening, Martin Sheen, Alec Baldwin, Matthew Broderick,
Candice Bergen, Dabney Coleman and Ed Harris. To put that another way,
it stars Clyde Barrow, Snow White, Carolyn Burnham, Capt. Willard, Jack
Ryan, Ferris Bueller, Murphy Brown, a creepy boss and Jackson Pollock.
<|_=00=_|>
Really hope in time I'll realize that I just missed something, but as
much as I hate to say it, this was somewhat disappointing. Any Beatty
film will certainly have much to praise, and this is no exception -
looks great, sounds great, great acting from an incredible cast, many
funny moments - but the story doesn't hold up to the superior levels of
the other areas. Out of respect for not giving anything away, I'll be
vague, but there are a couple of major plot points that are rather
forced. I'll trust that the protagonist's eccentricities are accurate
reflections, but by the end, I just didn't care and many moments felt
more like eccentricity for the sake of eccentricity. I remain such a
fan that not sure if I want people to agree with this review or
convince me that I'm wrong. My apologies, Mr. Beatty. I'll see anything
you make and hope this won't be your last, but overall I didn't find
this whole equal to the sum of its parts.
<|_=00=_|>
*Minor Spoilers Ahead* We get a brief scene to begin in 1964 where
Howard Hughes (Warren Beatty) is confined to a bed in a hotel. His
handlers Frank Forbes (Alden Ehrenreich), Levar Mathis (Matthew
Broderick) and Nadine Henly (Candice Bergen) wait for him to respond to
some false allegations. A biography of Howard has been written with
some outlandish and scandalous claims and T.V. personalities are
waiting by a phone for his response.

We then go back to 1958 and we are properly introduced to Marla Mabry
(Lily Collins) and Frank Forbes. We also get to meet Marla's
inquisitive mother Lucy (Annette Benning). They're both excited,
prospects for Marla's future look bright but Howard's reputation
precedes him. Frank has his own agenda for being in Hughes' employ
(Frank wants to pitch him on a potentially lucrative real estate deal)
but he's yet to meet him as well. Frank is just working as a driver
right now but he's hoping to move up. Unbeknownst to either of them,
although Howard is very protective of the actresses in his employ, he
doesn't have much time for them. He's got his own problems and with his
declining mental state, they're not going to be solved overnight.

Before I get into my critical thoughts on the plot, I'd like to say
that the movie looks really good. I think everyone likes to take that
nostalgic trip back to the golden years of Hollywood and the film
definitely accomplishes that. The sets, the costuming and the
cinematography are all really nice considering the film was made on a
relatively tight budget ($25 million).

While the movie looks great, I would clarify that it's being advertised
wrong. If you watch the trailer, it looks like a romantic comedy with
Hughes as a supporting character. This movie is more of a drama with
comedic bits sprinkled in. The movie flip flops on its tone severely,
it looks like its setting up a romantic comedy and then that will just
get thrown to the side for an entire act of drama. It becomes Hughes
vs. the rest of the world for an entire hour. I wish it had just picked
one because the seeds were planted for a really solid movie either way
but sadly they couldn't.

What really saves this movie from itself is the performances from the
actors and actresses. I have problems with how Warren Beatty wrote and
directed this movie but he knocked it out of the park with his
portrayal of Howard Hughes. Howard was a little before my time so I
don't have any memories of him to point to but from how he was
described to me, Beatty nailed all his eccentricities and the natural
duplicity of his personality. I could have watched a movie with just
him at the centre. This movie also cemented how talented both Lily
Collins and Alden Ehrenreich are. Collins was the standout of the two
for me but they both really helped make their characters interesting
when the writing failed them. Its easy to see why Ehrenreich is on his
way to bigger things and hopefully Collins will get that chance. There
are lots of big actors in small parts (Ed Harris, Steve Coogan, Candice
Bergen, Martin Sheen, Hayley Bennett etc.) and they all do their jobs
well. Matthew Broderick isn't in the movie as much as I expected and
while he's fine, he's the one who suffers the most for the film's
choppy editing.

I liked most of the characters that were included in the movie. Marla
and Frank are easy to like both on their own and with each other.
Collins and Ehrenreich's chemistry helps that along as well. They're
both very straight-laced and proper but they're both eager to shed
their respective skins. You also see why Hughes seemed to have a
magnetism where people are just drawn to him. I would have been cool if
Marla and Frank were the centre of the movie because they are
interesting. Or the movie could have been about Howard's descent into
his mental illness and that would have been great. The problem is the
movie refuses to pick between the two and while I appreciate the
ambition to have it all, they failed to execute that plan. I couldn't
believe how poorly this movie was edited together on top of that. The
transition from scene to scene is beyond rough and it was jarring more
often than not.

Rules Don't Apply doesn't add up to the sum of its parts. That might
seem like an oversimplification but that's really how I feel about the
movie. You have great performances, great scenery and set dressing and
characters you want to follow. Its too bad someone almost ruined the
film by hacking it up in the editing room. They really swung for the
fences but unfortunately they couldn't land the plane. I did kind of
like the movie overall and for its good aspects I'll give it a 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm surprised that Warren Beatty returned to directing after almost 20
years with another film about a disturbed man who is falling apart.
Even more, why make another Howard Hughes film? You'd learn more about
Hughes by watching the Tommy Lee Jones film or "The Aviator." Mr.
Beatty was trying to be contemporary with the editing of the film (4
editors by the way) by cutting away from a scenes abruptly that were
starting to get interesting. 

The pace of the romance between the two lead characters was uneven and
thus hard to believe. The costumes, production design, cinematography
and much of the acting was great, but the narrative was confusing.
There was a lot of interesting quirkiness and style, but because the
point of view was scattered, it was hard to really get to know the
characters.
