
Only a director with the creativity and imagination of Jean-Pierre
Jeunet would attempt to bring to the big screen in English the
best-selling novel by Reif Larsen "The Selected Works of T.S. Spivet".
The book, described by author Stephen King as a combination of
"MarkTwain, Thomas Pynchon and Little Miss Sunshine", is illustrated
with charts, lists, sketches and maps to help recount the adventures of
the quirky, gifted 12-year-old boy of the book's title . Jeunet has
faithfully reproduced the visual elements of the novel to recreate the
offbeat world of T.S Spivet and the use of a 3D format is perfectly
suited to breathing life into T.S.'s illustrations which Jeunet's does
by drawing on his trademark mix of poetry and fantasy. But the plot
does not lift from the page and the young boy's eventful journey seems
flat and doggedly two-dimensional.

The adventure starts off promisingly enough. T.S.Spivet (Kyle Catlett)
lives on a farm in the 'Big Sky Country' of Montana with his amateur
entomologist mother (Helena Bonham Carter), his cowboy father (Callum
Keith Rennie) and elder sister (Niamh Wilson). A phone call to the
ranch from the prestigious Smithsonian Institute in Washington informs
the young Spivet that he has won a prize for one of his inventions.
Since the death of his twin brother in a shooting accident, Spivet's
mother and father have sidelined the surviving son. Feeling neglected
and un-loved, T.S. decides to travel on his own to Washington to accept
his prize. The journey takes him across America on a freight train and
into a series of encounters with a gallery of colourful characters.

While the scenes in Montana are a triumph to Jeunet's bold, sweeping
breadth of vision, once Spivet hops on the train, the action,
conversely begins to falter. The characters he meets could have come
straight from a cartoon strip  ageing sailor Two Clouds (Dominique
Pinon) is a dead ringer for Popeye  and they add little or nothing to
the narrative or the tone of the film.

As the lead actor, Catlett carries a lot of responsibility for one so
young. No one can deny he is as cute as a button  with his oversized
trousers and constant puzzled look  but he lacks the range of emotions
needed to create real empathy. This may explain why a film about grief
remains oddly unmoving until a a scene towards the film's finale which
seems unashamedly designed to pull the heart strings. This latest
Jeunet is undoubtedly a glorious visual treat, but it lacks the magic
and mystery of 'Amélie' his most successful film to date. I
<|_=00=_|>
8.5 of 10. Genius kid invents a perpetual motion machine, goes on
adventure. Simple but without a well-developed plot and quirky
characters like the one Helena Bonham Carter plays (and continues to
set her characters apart from every other actor on the planet), this
would be heavily dependent on 3D to be worth viewing in theaters.

What starts out as seemingly just a nerd on the ranch family comedy,
develops into a more complex tale. Then when it seems to have reduced
to a road-trip, self-discovery story, it once again expands and
delivers more.

The other key character in this is played by Judy Davis. There are,
however, an ongoing stream of brilliant characters to provide fun and
suspense in what really shouldn't be promoted as just 3D kid action.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is very unusual for Jean-Pierre Jeunet because it's in
English and is set in the United States. While he previously directed
"Alien: Resurrection", his films are usually in his native language.
However, like most of his movies, it is very strange and has a
wonderfully unique sense of style that is pure Jeunet. It's hard to
exactly describe this styleyou just have to see it to believe and
appreciate it. This oddness is actually what makes most of his films so
wonderful.

As far as the film being set in America, I was not totally surprised by
thisespecially since a lot of the film is set in the American West.
When I have visited France on several occasions, I was very surprised
to see that many folks there were very fascinated with the old west and
cowboys. The biggest shock was inside the Haunted Mansion at Disneyland
Paris, as inside this mansion are, believe it or not, cowboys!

The film is about a very small and unique 10 year-old, T.S. Spivet
(Kyle Catlett). T.S. is a strange child who is a lot like Dexter from
"Dexter's Lab" or "Jimmy Neutron"a boy genius with an intellect far,
far in advance of his years. You learn just how smart he is when the
boy receives a call from the Smithsonian Institution. It seems that the
kid has received the very prestigious Baird Award for ingenuity and
inventiveness. However, the folks have no idea T.S. is a child and
naturally think he's an adult. After all, he's invented an amazing
machine to demonstrate perpetual motion. When they invite T.S. to come
to Washington to receive the award, he does something very strangehe
accepts and never tells his parents. Instead, he treks from Montana to
Washington! What's to become of this little prodigy? In addition to
this main plot, there are subplots involving T.S.'s dead brother (who,
oddly, appears to T.S. periodically throughout the film and has
conversations with T.S.!) and his very quirky family. 

This film has a somewhat slow and meandering pace that reminded me a
bit of the recent Oscar-nominee, "Nebraska". Some may be put off my
this or the strangeness of the characters, but to me this is what make
this a wonderful and entertaining film. I appreciated the nice, low-key
performance by Catlett and it's a nice testament to Jeunet that he was
able to coax this out of the boy. Additionally, I really, really
appreciated the uniqueness of the plot and way it was handled. Too
often films seem awfully familiar, but this is certainly not the case
with this nice film. Well worth seeing for audiences of all ages. This
Jeunet film is much more normal than many of his films, but the style
is definitely his. Additionally, like in so many of his films there is
an appearance by Dominique Pinonan actor that always seems to show up
in Jeunet's movies. I appreciate this, as I have loved Pinon in many
films ranging from "Diva" to "Delicatessen".
<|_=00=_|>
It's easy to fall in love with this tale of the ingeniously, slightly
magical story of The Young and Prodigious T.S. Spivet. The story is
touching, and quite charismatic, and the little boy is presented as
quite a believable genius. Without being presenting as being too
intelligent or arrogant and thus putting the audience off. He's both
intelligent and likable, and modest too. Whilst charming and witty it's
not exactly funny. Then again it's not a comedy. Now this is not a bad
thing, as the film works really well for it. 

The film comes across as this little humble tale of something possibly
real, and emotionally touching, whilst being both enlightening and
saddening at times. Nothing like 'Home Alone' or any of those sorts of
movies. It's just that I can see how to some, the film may be perceived
as being somewhat bland, and in some ways yes, but for the most part
no. You really will become greatly involved all the way throughout the
movie. The cinematography is brilliant, as you would expect from Jean
Pierre Jeunet, director of Amelie and Micmacs etc. It accompanies the
magical style and point of view that T.S. Spivet holds, without
overpowering the film as a whole. The screenplay is brilliant, really
working off of the original books. In addition, every character feels
essential. It doesn't waste time with characters unneeded, and feels
much more compact for it. The story has many a twist and turn in store
for you and will make you well up inside. The reason mainly being in
the ending, where there is a major plot point, and we can feel every
emotion possible from every single character, because by the end, you
really have grown to love them. You've connected with them, and you
feel for them. Slightly strange at times and brilliantly acted, to
which, I see great things in-store for Kyle Catlett (T.S. Spivet). T.S.
Spivet is definitely one to watch with the entire family. Prepare
yourselves, hearts will be uplifted. There's only two flaws with this
movie... some people may feel like it's not "entertaining" or "funny"
enough, to which it's not supposed to be... It's touching, brilliant
and a really adventure, (And do you know what, it's a little bit funny
too). The second flaw, is that some of the characters are a little bit
of a caricature, especially with the stereotypical police officer and
Two Clouds just being thrown in for good measure, where they just act
as fillers, however, as fillers go, they're still really good.

Final Grade: A-

Not quite Jeunet's best work, but it does the trick. Original and
clever, and connects emotionally... and a little bit surreal. The Jean
Pierre hat-trick has been successfully pulled off. A worthwhile watch.

For more please visit... http://wp.me/4w7bk
<|_=00=_|>
The Young and Prodigious T.S. Spivet (2014):

This is the new film from the French Terry Gilliam, Jean-Pierre Jeunet.
You may best know him as the director of Amelie, City of the Lost
Children and Micmacs. This time, we have a sweeter and simpler affair:
a young prodigy in Montana, the titular Spivet, has invented a
'perpetual motion machine' thereby solving an enigma that has baffled
scientist. The discovery is so hot that it even attracts the attention
of the Smithsonian institute, who wish to present the boy with an
award, unaware of his real age. So, leaving home and his oddball family
behind, T.S embarks on a journey across America to receive his prize.

The Short answer: It's really, really good! The Long? Well, where to
start? Well given Jeunet pedigree, the visuals are up first, in all
their vibrant, almost Technicolor-esque splendour. What's more, this is
quite possibly the best use of 3D I have ever seen in a film. The depth
of field is phenomenal, and really adds to the storybook feeling of the
whole movie. It's sort of like a giant pop up book, which is fitting as
that's how we transition between the different parts of the story.
Whether it be out on the Montana ranch, looking out of a train or even
in the Smithsonian itself, there is always something coming to the fore
or floating out, and it's great fun.

Of course, there are other areas. The cast is top notch, with a pretty
solid youngster as our lead. He captures the quirks and brainpower of
our inventive young lead, alternately able to sell inspiration,
determination and even fear a few times, reminding us T.S, for all his
brilliance, is still a child. In supporting roles we have the likes of
Helena Bonham Carter as his bug-studying mother, Callum Keith Rennie as
his cowboy pop, and even Jeunet regular Dominique Pinon as a lively
hobo T.S meets on his travels. This is just a shortlist of the people
here, but every one does well and their own vibrance and sort of
exuberance contrasts nicely with T.S's very straight forward, matter of
fact behaviour and logic.

However, all this is but dressing without a decent script here, and
well, we have a fine one. It's undeniably Euro-quirk, despite being a
Canadian co-production, with a lot of visual gags and little sprinkles
of off-quilter and slightly dark scenarios that are played with a
slightly humorous bend (not many movies can make people shooting
themselves, a cowboy with a lick fetish and even mourning trauma
somewhat amusing, last I checked). However, amidst the silliness, there
is a good deal of heart. For all his ingenuity, the film very much
still presents T.S as a kid; he makes mistakes, he gets scared he
misses his family as he goes on his adventure. The film wisely doesn't
make him invulnerably just because he's our lead. What's more, there is
a strong element here about dealing with death and letting go
concerning a tragedy in the Spivet family, and while at first is
somewhat there for amusement, the film does take it more seriously as
it progresses, and once again, shows how people would react under that
circumstance: some bottle it in, some cry and some regret and take
blame. For a film with such a bright colour palette, it can get very
dark and touchy a handful of times, and it's all the better for it.

Naturally, how much oddball quirk you can take will affect your
enjoyment, and there are a few times where the pacing does slow down a
little more than needed. Regardless, if you're burnt out by X Men and
Edge of Tomorrow, and need something smaller and more out there, give
this a shot. It may even leave you a little teary eyed at points, but
regardless, if you can get to it, check this film out. It's inventive,
touching and refreshingly with a few surprises. Can't ask for more than
that.
<|_=00=_|>
What a surprise to me- I was expecting another European artsy movie
that does not go anywhere. I am European and generally sick of this
kind of movies especially from France that bore me to tears. Instead I
saw an entertaining movie, full of wonderful filmmaking, touching story
and interesting characters. The story is told with an incredible focus
on details and beautiful imagery. This is definitely an emotional story
carried by kid actors that could have gone terribly wrong. For my taste
Mr. Jeunet found a very tasteful way to direct the cast through the
potential pitfalls of the story. The story is out there in a fantasy
world combined with National Geographic Imagery- great combination. I
am sure not for everyone but it worked for me. Chapeau monsieur Jeunet.
<|_=00=_|>
A Great Canadian movie telling the Great American children's Novel.
This movie tells a very sweet, and touching story of an incredible
slightly magical journey of T.S. Spivot one very smart kid. Deep, and
rich with a bitter sadness that runs through all of the family, and
each member left behind is coping in their own ways. T.S. is a genius
child who you will cheer for, and fear for, he is so strong at times
that we all have to be reminded that he is just a child, and a little
one at that. This all star mostly Canadian cast backs up Kyle Catlett
who plays T.S. almost perfectly. The only thing that I found off was
that during his narrations it did not always feel like he really
understood the words he was saying, if this slips past you, great, but
it was really the only thing I found wrong with this movie. The
production itself is beautiful, and slightly ethereal giving you a
child's perspective of most things, and gives everything either more,
or less edge. I Enjoyed this movie if you have to have something to
compare it to, I would go all the way back to North with Bruce Willis
as there are points in this movie that have that same unreal feeling. I
recommend this to families of all sizes, and shapes, or for any average
dreamer, but maybe even those grounded folks out there who may enjoy
the escape just as much. Really this is just a sweet touching movie for
anyone to enjoy, I am not so sure that the level of the language near
the end is necessary, but there is just the one the only thing they
can't say on Canadian TV though so you should be warned it is the full
M.F. bomb.
<|_=00=_|>
Even seasoned reviewers will tell you, in confidence, that there are
some films which should not be reviewed by conventional means. This is
one of them.

I am guessing I have seen several dozen films that try in their own
fashion to capture the essence, the nub, of what it is like to be a
child in a world of adults.

This one succeeds and does so brilliantly.

It is not merely that writer/director Jean-Pierre Jeunet is a craftsman
of the highest order - I would happily stand in line to see his next
film, whatever it may be -- or that the actors (including Helena
Carter) are pitch perfect, it is the sum total of the experience that
just grabs you from the first scene and holds you until the end.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
The Young and Prodigious T.S Spivet is a breath of fresh Mid Western
air among all the rubbish of cinema today. Its Charming without being
overbearing, its smart without being technical and odd without being
weird.

The cast do a really good job at acting and the playful (although
unrealistic)characters are charming. The cinematography really explores
small details as well as large. The props of vintage equipment and
quirky items of the past will resonate with those who watch the film. 

I think most people who see this film will leave feeling happier and
will take note of the magic of life as T.S Spivet does. Its a pure
escapist film. Watch and enjoy this little slice of movie magic with a
with your favorite mug, blanket and good friend.
<|_=00=_|>
Jeunet is, for once, operating outside his usual "comfort zone" and
that's not a bad thing at all. While I have come to love him for his
unique style, quirky colours, sharp textures and character actors
caught by fisheye lenses, sometimes it pays to do something a little
more restricted. As a comparison, Lynch's "Straight Story" comes to
mind - a director known for decidedly non-mainstream sensibilities
shoots a "simple" road movie. And since "The Straight Story" is my
favourite Lynch film, that's no small praise! Of course, there's some
of Jeunet's trademark whimsical, playful optics on screen, but they
never become mere gimmicks but always enhance the storytelling. And
some - or probably all - of the most impactful scenes are really simple
shots - no gimmicks, no gags, just faces and landscapes. While Jeunet's
last, "Micmacs", lost itself a bit among all the optical fireworks and
gags, this film here keeps it straight and focused and I liked it only
the better for it. Also, the pace is much slower than usual (again,
very like "The Straight Story") - most scenes are longer than strictly
necessary, giving them time to settle in.

The weakest point may be the actors - the children are not as good as
those in "City of lost Children", and most of the grown-ups are a bit
one-dimensional. The nice exception being Helena Bonham-Carter who
delivers a really fine performance, nuanced like you wouldn't have
thought she still had it in her after all the hammed-up roles from the
last years.

Overall, probably my second-favourite Jeunet film (have seen it only
once at the moment, maybe I'll have to rewrite it a bit after more
viewings), highly recommended - and I really hope he does some more
"mainstream" projects like this where his playfulness doesn't drown the
story!
