
I've been an IMDb lurker for several years and this film was so poor
that I felt motivated to write my first-ever review. It's bad on so
many levels, I'm not even quite sure where to begin...

Storyline: This film probably represents the biggest rick-roll I've
ever seen. Naturally, when people see a film about a great flood,
titled Noah, the automatic assumption is that it's a re-telling of the
biblical story. This film cynically exploits that expectation and then
drops a hammer on the bewildered audience. I believe most people who
watch this film will recognise that something is deeply "wrong" in it's
portrayal, but they're less likely to realise that the fundamental
reason is because the director has flooded (pun intended) his movie
with imagery and references based not in Christian theology, but
Gnostic mysticism. I'm not Christian, so I wasn't offended by this
perspective on a theological level, but that didn't lessen my
disappointment on a cinematic level at all. 

Special effects: Wow. Just... Wow. The effects in this film wouldn't
look out of place in Jason and the Argonauts, or The Golden Voyage of
Sinbad. If you're not familiar with either of these (much better)
movies, it's possibly because you weren't born when they were produced,
way back in the 60's and 70's. In any case, it saddens me to know that
in 2014, effects of this standard are deemed acceptable for general
release. But as soon as I finish this review, I'll be dusting off my
Magnavox for a quick game of Wipeout just to complete the sensation of
time-travel.

Acting: This film sports a strong cast with some of my favourite actors
and most of them discharge their duties as well as might be expected
given the script they're stuck with. I did feel there was some
overacting with some of the more emotionally loaded scenes, but
overall, I'm more disappointed with the cast for accepting their roles
than how they actually played them.

Conclusion: Dear reader, I implore you. Go for a walk. Read a book.
Call that friend you haven't caught up with for ages. Do anything but
watch this film. I didn't pay to watch this mockery, but I still feel
cheated. My OH slept through most of it and I feel jealous. If you
avoid it altogether after reading this and other reviews, then I can at
least feel like I've done my good deed for the day.
<|_=00=_|>
Even though I had read a number of critical articles about Noah, I went
anyway on opening day. I thought I'd give it the benefit of the doubt.
Even giving it that benefit, it was one of the worst movies I have
seen. I was not expecting a completely Biblical account of the Noah
story, and knew that additions to the story would have to be added,
since the Bible version is quite brief. However, who would have thought
that would mean weird talking Rock creatures, which looked like they
came from a Transformer movie. And the area where Noah lived was
totally barren rock....until he planted the seed Methuzalah gave him,
and immediately an entire forest shoots up out of the ground, to supply
wood to build the ark. When the "flood" came, instead of it starting to
rain, huge columns of water were shooting up from the ground. What's
with that?

I was especially looking forward to the animal scenes, since the Humane
Society commended the director for not using any real animals in the
filming. Well, that was more than obvious! Computer animation has come
a long way over the years, but this movie apparently used one of the
earliest versions of CG. It looked totally fake, and all occurred in
about a minute. 

The acting was terrible, including Russell Crowe. And the script was
even worse. After a very climactic scene, where he almost killed the
twin babies in a state of rage, he explains that "All I saw was love."
I almost left at that point!

If one reads all the reader reviews, I think it will become apparent
that most of the viewers agree with my comments. At the end of the
movie, our audience spontaneously let out an audible groan. I have
never heard such negative comments as people were walking up the aisle.

Save your money!
<|_=00=_|>
I was very much on the sidelines but even I noticed some back and
forwards over the film Noah. Some seemed furious that it was not in
line with Biblical teaching while others seemed to take glee in the
religious objections to the film; for me I don't really have a dog in
that fight so the fuss did not interest me and the film didn't seem
like something I wanted to pay £10 a seat to go and see. That said, I
was curious to watch it because I found it hard to believe that Darren
Aronofsky would churn out a blockbuster without something of interest
in it.

The film wastes no time with adding flesh to the basic bones of the
story and, if you're looking to get upset by the presence of fallen
angel rock monsters, then the film serves them up to you right at the
front. I guess if you came to see a bible story then this may upset you
since the bible does not mention these creatures, but for me coming to
a film, I really don't care what characters it creates or devices it
uses as long as they work. From here we find Noah living with his
family separate from men, tending to a nature that the others exploit 
again an environmental message of stewardship that (oddly) upset those
that proclaim the bible as the truth. As per the story, the message
comes of the destruction of man and Noah along with his family and rock
monsters, get to building an ark for the animals which will be saved to
repopulate the world. It is quite the story and, if you are honest,
were it not for the fact that it is lifted from the bible, it is a
story that would pretty much get laughed out of any pitch meeting.

So it is to the film's credit that, although it is inherently
senseless, it makes a decent fist of telling it. Given the resources
available, it does this primarily by throwing effects and scale at the
viewer. This works to a point and it is a pretty good looking film with
some particularly memorable scenes. The main thing for me that offered
interest was that the central character of Noah is essentially a
religious extremist who is dooming a world of men to death because of
something god told him. The film disappoint though because it doesn't
do enough with this. It plays it straight and sets it up and there are
points where you are not sure who is the "good guy" here since
Tubal-cain is really just trying to survive death, likewise the
obsession of Noah of ending man's time on Earth and only leaving
animals. It doesn't work though because it doesn't go harder on this
and instead of drawing us into the madness of his obsession and the
terrible things he therefore stands by and watches, the film actually
feels plodding and not entirely sure of itself throughout these
aspects. On the other side of this, the film never throws itself into
the "epic effects blockbuster" camp either and, while noisy and large,
the action sequences don't really work either.

It doesn't feel like an Aronofsky film; it doesn't feel like there was
much here to challenge or to be explored  or rather it does feel like
there is, but the film doesn't go for it. The cast play it straight and
professionally but not always to the film's benefit. Crowe in
particular is a straight bat and even when he is acting in extreme
ways, you feel like he maybe doesn't "get it" since earnestness is his
consistent approach throughout. Connelly and Watson are both more
expressive and I guess the idea was that their performances would be
our way to experience the darker side of Noah's steadfastness. Winstone
gives out a good series of gowls when called upon but again his
weaknesses are more to do with the film not exploring his character and
Noah better (to be fair though, I am so sick of his floating head on
the TV encouraging me to gamble with mockney geezerisms that I wasn't
keen to be stuck with him again here).

Noah is not an awful film mainly because it is basically lots of
fragments of better films put together. So the spectacle is good at
times but never goes for it, while the character piece is hinted at but
not given over to in a way that really works. Everyone plays it down
the middle of these and there is not too much of interest beyond the
moment  which is a shame for a film so long and filled with such
talent.
<|_=00=_|>
When putting on Noah I had heard a lot of negativity about this movie.
I do not know if it is Christians not supporting this adaptation, or if
it is atheists thinking it is way to much Christian propaganda. I am a
atheist, and I like good stories on the screen. What I liked about this
movie was that feeling of adventure the likes of LOTR and Star Wars, a
movie adaptation of a biblical story that is up there with other
science fiction and adventure films. It didn't make the story about
Noah more plausible, but it was a great story, set in timeless
environments. I have read the genesis story even though I'm not a
Christian, and in my opinion this adaptation is quite accurate and true
to the biblical story, with some tweaking here and there. A little
gnostic view points here and there, but all in all something fresh made
from a old and boring book, made a little bit more interesting. Have an
open mind, and don't watch it with an preconceived notion. Watch it
like you would with any other story made for the screen.
<|_=00=_|>
What an utter waste of time.

I am by no means a die hard advocate of direct adaptation of a book to
the screen. So I entered the cinema expecting an enjoyable movie with
solid cinematography, great storyline and good acting - to be expected
with the director. Boy was I mistaken - granted the movie is extremely
far fetched (next to no authenticity in relation to the book of the
bible), what killed it for me was the serious inconsistencies with the
character profiling, poor storyline and execution that made me want to
leave the cinema midway. For example - Noah is portrayed as an earth
loving greenie, protecting plants and life - point understood, but he
easily kills people to protect another life? Further, later in the
story he is battling internal turmoil as they hear the screams of the
people of the earth? If his resolve lead him to kill humans without
hesitation, why is his suddenly so challenged?

There was no clear cut message, no point to the movie and it seemed to
drag on. If the director intended to slide off in a tangent, at least
make it exciting to watch. Let me save you the waste of time and advise
against watching it. Save your precious pennies and watching some worth
your time.
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched this on Pay-Per-View having missed a chance to see in
theaters (dithered over whether or not to see it due to wildly mixed
reviews). It was visually engaging enough to keep me watching till the
end but as the credits began to roll, I found myself feeling
dissatisfied. 

Some of the scenery and shots featuring animals were really cool, I
found myself wishing for more (that is, more time spent on
animals...and a closer look at different species as imagined by the
creators of this film).

Ray Winstone is a distinguished actor but I found his portrayal at
times creepy, at times laughable, overall weak (how much of this was
due to direction and/or other factors...not sure, when it comes to this
film I didn't get a sense either way). Emma Watson and Jennifer
Connelly impressed me, I got a sense of quiet strength from their
characters.

Russell Crowe, also one of my favorite actors (I thought his Robin Hood
was masterful, a fresh new take), disappointed. Without giving anything
away, there were some parts of this film that called for a more
dramatic narrative...his timing and (at times) rushed speech took away
from the grandeur of what was meant to be an epic film. You find
yourself wishing he would deliver certain lines a bit more
theatrically, like David Wenham in 300 or one of the greats of classic
film (Charlton Heston, perhaps).

I didn't realize when I started watching that Anthony Hopkins was also
in the film. When he popped up on screen I laughed and thought: 'Of
course...can't make an epic film without Anthony Hopkins!' Probably
just me but it seemed a bit tired as far as casting goes. 

I might have enjoyed it more on the big screen but don't regret
watching at home on my TV. Bottom line, entertaining enough to
watch...just a bit of a let-down.
<|_=00=_|>
Judging from the hate Noah has gotten on here I was expecting very
little. Actually Noah was nowhere near as bad as heard, and while very
flawed and by far the worst film of Darren Aronofsky(with his others
ranging from very good to outstanding) it did have some impressive
things. On the most part the film is brilliant visually, the barren
apocalyptic landscapes and later more colourful ones were really
striking and the cinematography has a sweeping yet somewhat
surrealistic effect. The opening and creation sequences were
beautifully done with the latter quite harrowing without being too
heavy-handed, and the flood scene was intense and jaw-dropping in
spectacle. Noah's dreams had a real creepiness too. Clint Mansell's
music score swells thrillingly and has an epic sweep, enhancing crucial
scenes and not drowning stuff out. The sound is thrilling in its
authenticity too. There are some good performances, the best of which
coming from Russell Crowe, who plays with real steel and a powerful
charisma. Jennifer Connelly is a sympathetic and touching wife and
mother figure, and has a scene in the last act that really does hit
home and is not over-the-top. Some have disliked Emma Watson's
performance but for me she brought genuine heart to a role that was
more of a plot-device up until the last act, at that point she becomes
the character you relate to the most. Anthony Hopkins does not have
much to do but he is gleefully enjoyable in his role of Methusalah.

Noah did personally fall very short though, and actually the little
relation to the Bible no matter how people carp on about it is the
least of its problems. Douglas Booth is rather bland and too
pretty-boy-model-like while Logan Lerman came across as wooden and
forced, Ham could easily have been the character we related to but for
that to happen I think the film could have expanded much more on his
character arc and situation. Ray Winstone is the most disappointing,
he's done some great performances but this is not one of them, he is
saddled with a very clichéd villain role that has no development to him
and he overdoes it in a way that feels straight out of another film
entirely. The characters generally are underdeveloped, especially the
villain and Ham's subplot had potential to be expanded much more but
Ila's character has a lot of heart and effort is made to humanise Noah
although some of his decision making comes across as rather sudden. 

The special effects are a mixed bag, the flood effects are outstanding
and the built-to-scale ark also looks incredible, both of which with
much grandeur. But the Rock Monsters(or the Watchers) have a dated
look, are written in a way that feels irrelevant to the story or in a
way that doesn't gel with everything else going on and slightly like
Transformers clones, and some of the animals(notably the snakes) look
like computerised toys that don't blend within the scenery very well.
The dialogue does often feel stilted and confused, especially in the
first act, while taking an overwrought if well-intentioned turn in the
last and coming across as a little heavy-handed in places. The story
does have a number of bright spots and contains some powerful
messaging, but does drag a fair bit and has some stuff that felt like
filler, the film easily could have been half-an-hour shorter. The story
is also a bit of a weird one, and one that leaves more questions than
answers, in a sense that it does feel like it doesn't quite know what
it wants to be, there's some sci-fi, some action-epic and some
character-driven study(which takes up the last act), all three of which
with uneven results. The ending is for my liking a bit too convenient
as well. Aronofsky's direction is broad and is at home with the style
of the film and the spectacle but he fails to make the story properly
engage(which is unusual for Aronofsky). Overall, ambitious but uneven.
Noah is nowhere near as bad as a lot of the negative reviews have said
and the stick it gets for not being close to the Bible is on the unfair
side- in all fairness though Noah was advertised in a way that was
suggestive that it was an adaptation of the biblical story when really
it is the bare bones- but it does have a lot of flaws and could have
been better considering how much talent was on board. 5/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie absolutely stunning. Beautiful cinematography,
outstanding acting, and astounding special effects. 

Of course, there are a few things that fellow believers need to be
aware of. The movie, 'Noah', is not told from an ultra-conservative
point of view. There are multiple parts that can clash with your own
beliefs. When creation is explained in the movie, it is portrayed in
the fashion that God, or The Creator as He is referred to throughout
the movie, used the Big Bang as His tool for the creation of the
universe, and evolution for His creation of animals and of Man.
Although I do not personally believe that is how He created everything,
the movie tells creation beautifully and with God as the Creator,
therefore I do not find it offensive.

One piece of information that will be helpful when seeing this movie is
the background and origin of the Watchers. The Watchers are originally
mentioned in the Book of Enoch, an ancient non-canonical book of the
Jewish religion. The Watchers are, as stated in the movie, fallen
angels, but after that, the production team took their creative
license. Since it is in neither the Jewish Tanakh nor the Christian
Bible, most viewers will think that the producers simply made up the
Watchers.

Also, there are many gruesome and gut-wrenching scenes, for this movie
reveals just how corrupt Mankind had become. There is no happy parade
of animals arriving two-by-two, and Noah is not a happy old man with a
long flowing beard In this film, Noah tries to follow exactly what the
Creator commanded of him, taking himself past his breaking point. In
this film, Mankind is scrambling for survival, taking what it wants and
not caring for anyone else. In this film, the story of Noah is
portrayed realistically.

I implore you to go see this movie, but you must watch it with an open
mind.
<|_=00=_|>
Darren Aronofsky's Noah is a Biblical epic that definitely does not
live up to its potential; nor is it worthy of the talents of its
director. I came into the movie with what I thought were realistic
expectations: mainly that it would divert from its source material,
which I am quite familiar with. I also realized that this is
Aronofsky's first real epic film, as all of his previous work is fairly
minimalist, with relatively few characters and settings. I knew,
however, that he is a creative artist, and I expected to see an
interesting visual interpretation of this classic tale. It is safe to
say that my expectations were not met and that I was fairly
disappointed afterwards. 

The problems with the movie are myriad but the main issue I would point
out is the inconsistency and incoherence of the characters and overall
philosophy of the film. The most troubling of these to me was the
supposed moral delineation between the villain Tubal Cain (Ray Winston)
and his people and Noah (Russell Crowe) and his family. The main evil
that the villains seem to display is declaring an ownership over
creation and a disregard for the environment, contrasted with Noah's
veganism and care for the Earth. However, I found this fairly
unconvincing because of Noah's seemingly blatant disregard for human
life, as right off the bat he is seen killing some hunters when they
try to kill a weird looking scaled deer (on a side note, this creature
did not seem to fit in, as it was the only fantastical looking animal
that you really see, even the serpent Satan looks like a normal snake)
without thinking twice and with no apparent guilt. He also kills many
other innocent people when they try to get on the ark. This does not
seem consistent with the back story of Cain given at the beginning of
the movie, as his sin was violence and murder. This confuses the
audience because it is not clear why Noah's family should live while
the rest of the world should die. Perhaps this is the director's point
though I have a hard time believing that. In contrast, this
differentiation is quite clear in the Biblical narrative, as Noah and
his family are saved because of their faith in God and their obedience
to Him while the rest of humanity have rejected Him and because of
their complete moral depravity. I think this is a vital part of the
story that should not have been tampered with. In a similar vein, the
issue of Noah interpreting God's commands to mean that all of humankind
must die was very thorny for me. I understand the director wanted to
weave the story of Abraham and Isaac into the movie but this definitely
fell flat. There were simply too many inconsistencies with this plot
element. Principally, why wouldn't Noah simply just close the ark and
force his family to be subjected to and die in the flood like everyone
else since all of the animals were already safe and sound inside? This
would have saved him the heartache. Also, there is no evidence that
Noah's wife is barren (she looks fairly middle aged throughout) so it
would be seems possible for humanity to be continued through her with
one of her sons presumably as the father. Gross, but so is an uncle and
niece having children. Again the Biblical narrative does not have this
problem, as Noah's sons already have families of their own when the
flood comes. Finally Noah's ultimate decision to spare his
grandchildren, coupled with the revelation that God gave him the choice
whether humanity continued or died out, struck me as strange,
anticlimactic and inconsistent, while also straying from the Abraham
and Isaac story.

There were many other smaller inconsistencies throughout the film.
First off, the snake skin which signifies birth right is never really
explained fully. Why would people value the skin of the snake that was
instrumental in them losing Eden? Also, the glowing rocks were not
explained at all and seemed very unnecessary. I was also frustrated
with the depiction of the fallen angels, as was pretty much everyone
else who saw the movie. They seemed very out of place and were probably
one of the more offensive elements of the movie for believers, as
fallen angels in the Bible are known as demons and shouldn't be helping
the hero. I also noticed that they looked almost like Claymation or
stop motion so they were very frustrating to look at. This must have
been purposeful, but I have no idea why. Lastly, I found the overall
philosophy of the movie inconsistent. Having seen Aronovsky's The
Fountain was fairly helpful here since there are many similarities,
mainly the idea of reincarnation, man being in control of his own
destiny, and the character of the last/first man. Also the seed of the
tree of life in The Fountain looked the same as the seed of Noah's Ark
which suggests they symbolize the same catalyst of reincarnation.
However, these themes, mainly the interesting combination of pantheism
and humanism did not seem to work with the basic story, God destroying
the world and continuing mankind through Noah. Principally, if Noah
controls man's destiny, then why bring God into it at all, especially
as it seems nature is the supreme entity. Also, having an all-powerful
deity who created the universe seems inconsistent with the suggested
cyclicality of destruction and creation. There were a few positives
however. Clint Mansell and the Kronos Quartet deliver with the music as
always (caveat: was I the only one who was weirded out by the Patti
Smith number during the credits), and I enjoyed the cast and their
acting. The visuals were decent but by no means revolutionary and the
sound was great. In conclusion, I would suggest skipping this one,
especially if you follow an Abrahamic Religion.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a Bible thumper, but I would like to take a Bible and thump
someone on the head with it--namely those who wrote this script. 'Noah"
is an imagining of the biblical story (not a reimagining because the
Bible really doesn't have much to say about the flood story that people
really want to know--he mechanics of it).

My goal was to go into the theater considering this film to be separate
work from the book (as I do with all films). If you pretend you know
nothing of the original text, I am afraid this story does not stand
well on its own.

First of all, you would expect that Noah would be the hero of the
story. Actually, he was about the least likable character in the film.

Noah is a man who has what he takes to be revelatory dreams. Through
them, he predicts future happenings and modifies his life accordingly.
But he is a very bad "prophet", because he never seems sure he
understood the messages. The most dramatic part of the film is when he
tries to understand what the creator's intentions are for the race of
man. He thinks he knows, and he makes bombastic speeches about it, but
he obviously is not sure. Still, he acts on his best suspicions--or
intends to act. When it comes down to it, he wavers. And a teenage girl
has to explain to him the basics of free will.

If you were hoping for some interesting explanations about the
mechanics of the ark and how all those animals were saved, you will be
disappointed. The explanation we get is like saying that Santa Claus
manages to visit all the homes around the world in an impossibly short
time because he has magic reindeer. In the story, Noah has helpers that
are no less magical. And the depiction of every species of animal that
crawls, walks or flies (since this story does not consider evolution,
none of the species could have evolved after the flood) is very lame. I
don't know what I expected, but it was something more realistic.

I found the acting to be fine. The most enjoyable aspect of the film
for me was Emma Watson's performance. 

The special effects were okay. But not enough to make me forget the
deficiencies in the story.
