
This movie is a little gem. I read the New York Times review that said
it was "Brilliant" or whatever, and I don't know if I'd go that far,
but it's definitely the best movie about divorce and child custody I've
ever seen, and it's nothing like Kramer vs. Kramer. It's actually
really sweet and real feeling, mostly because you really identify with
the little girl Maisie. All the adult actors are great, and sometimes
funny (Steve Coogan), but I especially loved Alexander Skarsgard. He
seems like a loser when you first see him, but he ends up being super
loving, and his scenes with Maisie are really fun to watch. Haters are
going to hate, but I think anyone would relate to this film about
parents, kids, and finding people to love.
<|_=00=_|>
What Maisie Knew (2012) 

*** 1/2 (out of 4)

Excellent updating of the Henry James story about a divorcing couple
(Julianne Moore, Steve Coogan) and the impact that their behavior has
on their young daughter Maisie (Onata Aprile) as well as the new step
parents (Alexander Skarsgard, Joanna Vanderham). WHAT MAISIE KNEW isn't
going to appeal to a mass audience but it's certainly a terrific little
gem from directors Scott McGehee and David Siegel. What I enjoyed the
most was the unique way it told the story. We never get the "full"
story of everything going on but instead we get the bits and pieces
that a child would remember about something. Instead of finding out why
a parent leaves her at school, we just see how the child remembers
being left alone. Instead of knowing what the parents are fighting
about, we see how it impacts the child and her memories of it. This is
a very unique way to tell the story and it gives a touch of freshness
to a storyline (divorce) that we've seen before. It also doesn't hurt
that the film doesn't shy away from some rather ugly behavior from the
parents and especially the Moore character. To say she's an unworthy
mother would be an understatement but I appreciate the film playing
things straight and not ever trying to make something cute. It also
doesn't hurt that we get some of the best performances that you're
going to see all year with Moore doing an excellent job in her role as
the busy mother who doesn't have enough time for her daughter. This is
a rather ugly role so it was brave for the actress to take it on. The
same with Coogan who also plays a jerk and delivers with some strong
work. Both Skarsgard and Vanderham really steal the film in the roles
of the step parents who find themselves being forced to deal with
something they never expected. Both of them should be remembered at
Oscar time but we'll see how that goes. The same is true for Aprile who
doesn't get too much dialogue but we constantly see her reactions to
the things going on around here. This is such an excellent and quiet
performance and something you'd see in a silent movie. WHAT MAISIE KNEW
is about a pretty ugly subject matter but it's a fascinating look at it
for those who enjoy great performances and a unique story.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. An ultra-modern update of the 1897
Henry James novel introduces us to parents we know, but wish we didn't.
Steve Coogan plays Beale, a self-absorbed art dealer. Julianne Moore
plays Susanna, a self-absorbed rock star. OK, you and I may not know
art dealers and rock stars, but we know self-absorbed types and we know
they make terrible parents. So not only do we know it, but it's also
what Maisie knows.

Five outstanding performances and strong work by co-directors Scott
McGhee and David Siegel prevent this one from spinning off into the
neverlands of melodramatic muck. Onata Aprile is a wonder as Maisie.
She displays none of the typical "movie kid" precociousness. The movie
(and James novel) are told from her point of view. We see the
fragmented bits and pieces she experiences as her parents fight. Rather
than a full story, we share her moments of late pick-ups, early
drop-offs and forgotten trips.

Soon enough Beale and Susanna are divorced and the real wars begin.
These despicable adults make little effort in hiding their hatred of
each other from 6 year old Maisie. It becomes background noise to her
life. Further proof of the epic narcissism from both, Beale soon
marries Margot the nanny (played by Joanna Vanderham) and Susanna
reacts by marrying Lincoln, a band gopher and bartender played by
studly Alexander Skarsgard. The most startling moment of the movie
occurs when Lincoln first begins playing with Maisie ... it's as if we
had almost forgotten what it means to give your attention to a child.

This is not an easy film to watch ... at least if you understand that
parenting means putting yourself second. The directors do a wonderful
job of showing us how Maisie takes in moments and what memories she
makes from these. The neglect and false moments of caring from her
parents make her acceptance of the attention to her step-parents even
more poignant. We can't help but hope things work out for this little
girl and it's a reminder that childhood innocence cannot be recaptured
once lost ... and it's worth hanging on to for as long as possible.
<|_=00=_|>
It always amazes me when I see a really impressive child acting
performance. This is one of an impressive collective of films where a
young performer has been quite outstanding. But there is something of
an important difference between this one and most others. While the
likes of Tatum O'Neal (Paper Moon), Ivana Baquero (Pan's Labyrinth) or
Haley Joel Osment (The Sixth Sense) were all brilliant, none of them
were as young as Onata Aprile. When you consider that at her age she
simply will be incapable of understanding all the nuances of the
screenplay, it makes it all the more outstanding just how good she is.
She doesn't really say a whole lot but her looks convey massive amounts
of meaning. Her performance is so natural that it reminds me of kid's
drawings  so unaffected, unpretentious and instinctive that adults can
never faithfully replicate them. The acting by the entire cast here is
top calibre but at times like this you cannot compete and Onata Aprile
easily steals the show.

It's quite a disturbing story really. Maisie is a neglected child and
it's not very pleasant seeing her be passed around from pillar to post
being essentially disregarded. The view the film adopts is a child's
one. We see Maisie peeking round corners, in the periphery watching,
seeing but never fully comprehending but understanding more than she is
given credit for. She seems to know more about right and wrong than her
parents do, for example. They are in worlds of their own, ignoring
their little girl in order to play out their own self-obsessed games.
Steve Coogan and Julianne Moore are very good in these unsympathetic
roles in which they make you understand why they are like the way they
are without making us actually sympathise with them.

The film works so well because it's given such an unsentimental
treatment. The story unfolds subtly and believably and it avoids
saccharine. While Maisie's parents are the bad guys of the piece
they're not really villains as such, just extremely poor parents and
very selfish people generally. As it turns out, it's the parent's new
partners who are left increasingly in charge of the little girl and
they are slowly drawn towards each other too. Collectively they make
for an actual workable and loving family unit. Both Alexander Skarsgård
and Joanna Vanderham are also great as these much more sympathetic
adults. Events ultimately progress to an ending that was upbeat without
sacrificing believability; it's simultaneously inconclusive yet
hopeful. I suppose one of the messages of What Maisie Knew is that what
is important is what is best for the child, not what is convenient for
blood parents.
<|_=00=_|>
She knew who really loved her and who cared for her...

She also knew that mummy and daddy were too busy arguing to notice that
the pizza guy had arrived. "What Maisie Knew" practically opens
mid-tirade and Maisie, a wide-eyed six- year old girl has heard it all
before, she skips innocently through their art-deco New York apartment,
past her none-the-wiser parents, pulls out a fistful of dollar bills
from her own piggy-bank and returns to the door to pay for the pizza.

"What Maisie Knew" is a re-visioning of the 19th-Century Henry James
novel by the same name. The story follows Maisie, played by the
captivating Onata Aprile , caught in the midst of a custody battle
between her aging rock star mother Susanna and art-dealer father,
Beale.

Susanna intensely played by the always-brilliant Julianne Moore and
Beale (Steve Coogan) only unite in their neglect and emotional
abandonment of little Maisie, and both of whom are not above using
their daughter as a pawn in their war game.

As they battle on with the messy custody arrangements, Beale marries
former nanny Margo (Joanna Vanderham), and in retaliation Susanna also
remarries, to young bartender Lincoln, (Alexander Skargard).

As Maisie moves between her parents now separate lives, we unearth a
natural connection between Maisie and Lincoln. You feel safe when he is
around, even though he doesn't know what he is doing half the time and
like Maisie, is out of his depth and unsure where he stands in
Susanna's life.

Constantly, Susanna relies on Lincoln to pick Maisie up from school,
drop her off, and spend time with her and improvise when necessary.
 But as the affectionate bond between her new husband and her daughter
grows, Susanna becomes jealous of the relationship to the point of
enforcing to Lincoln "you don't get a bonus for making her like you".

"You don't deserve her," Lincoln lashes out as Susanna breaks up with
him, expressing exactly what the viewer has been thinking. But as
another relationship in Maisie's life ends, it's her resilience that
keeps us captivated and in awe of such a brave girl.

The story is told from Maisie's perspective including many shots even
captured from Maisie's eye level so we get a fresh look at an
unoriginal story. Instead of finding out why a parent leaves her at
school, we just see how the child remembers being left alone. Instead
of knowing what the parents are fighting about, we see how it impacts
the child and her memories of it.

"What Masie knew" is a bleak film but hopeful, it demonstrates that
innocence is not something to be wasted and used but cherished and
protected. What Masie knew is  to trust the people who actually take
care of her - never voicing an allegiance against anyone but accepting
love when it's offered
<|_=00=_|>
I've read five previously posted reviews of this film and see no reason
to repeat what they've already said. I agree, for the most part, with
the positive ones. And I suspect the negative ones were written by
people whose established taste in movies should have steered them away
from seeing this one in the first place.

What I'll add is, I guess, a mostly personal perspective. I've found
that I am lately much more drawn to smaller, more deeply felt movies
than to bigger, slicker, higher-production-value ones. To "What Maisie
Knew," for example, than to "The Great Gatsby." Even though both source
novels share a similar interior aesthetic, the treatment in the former
stays inside the characters, where James focused the original (thus
causing one of the previous reviewers' comments to the effect that
"nothing happens" in the movie), while the latter (possibly because of
Luhrmann's well-established directorial predilections)stays resolutely
focused on the exterior spectacle and barely skims the surface of
Fitzgerald's deeply rendered characterizations.

If you like smaller, more closely observed and deeply felt films,
you'll like this one.
<|_=00=_|>
What Maisie Knew (2012), directed by Scott McGehee and David Siegel, is
an extraordinary movie about an extraordinary young girl. Maisie (Onata
April) deserves better parents. Both her mother (Julianne Moore) and
her father (Steve Coogan) are self-absorbed people who care about
Maisie, but care about their careers more than about their daughter.

Maisie is cheerful, cooperative, and adaptive. Although her life has
all the trappings of luxury--a nanny, an exclusive private school--she
lives in a precarious world. Her parents make only haphazard
arrangements for her care. Sometimes these arrangements work, sometimes
they don't. Once, the haphazard plans fall through, and Maisie is
literally abandoned among strangers. We don't know what will happen
next to Maisie, but it probably won't be good. Her parents don't
deserve such a great little girl. But, she is their daughter, and
she'll have to play the cards she's been dealt.

The acting is strong in this movie, but I think the most impressive
work is done by Julianne Moore. Moore is brave enough to take a role
where she often looks tired and worn, and where her character is truly
inadequate as a parent. You cringe at the way Moore makes stabs at
being a good mother, but never quite works hard enough to actually
achieve that goal. I think she deserves--and will get--an Oscar
nomination for her work in this film.

There are a few lovely views of a beach and the ocean in the movie.
These will work better in a theater, but everything else will work well
on the small screen. This is definitely a film that is worth seeking
out and seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
A gorgeous film that manages to convey the emotion of childhood at its
more heart-wrenching. The central performance by Joanna Vanderham is
absolutely extraordinary, and reminds me of some of the greatest child
performances I've ever seen on film. As her parents, Julianne Moore and
Steve Coogan make you feel like you are right in the middle of the
tumult of family life. Directors Scott McGehee and David Siegel have
created a movie that feels like life, the vulnerability, the
abruptness, the comedy, the joy. 

With intimacy at times almost startling, this is one of the best
adaptations of a novel by Henry James I've ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>
An achingly poignant and quietly brilliant modern retelling of a Henry
James story.

The filmmakers make the bold decision to tell the entire story through
the point of view of Maisie, a little girl caught in the middle of her
parents' bitter breakup. Steve Coogan and Julianne Moore play the mom
and dad, and while neither are at heart bad people (though both make
strong arguments for that label at various points throughout the film),
it's clear that neither should ever have been a parent. They end up
hating each other, and using Maisie as a way to get at one another.
It's an old story (at least as old as Henry James), but the treatment
of it here feels fresh and like something I haven't seen before. The
two real caregivers are Maisie's ex-nanny and her mom's new boy toy,
both of whom take on the obligation of caring for Maisie even when it's
downright weird for them to only because they know that no one else
will if they don't. These two fall in love, and create a sort of
stand-in nuclear family with Maisie at its center. This should probably
feel implausible, but it doesn't the way it plays out the in film.

The acting is excellent all the way around, especially from Julianne
Moore, who tears into an unflattering role with everything she's got.
Watching a mother realize that the daughter she loves (and make no
mistake, flawed as Moore's character is, she does love her daughter)
would be better off without her is tough stuff to watch.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>
This is what I hope Henry James would have written, were he alive
today. The book is tough sledding, late James when he was dictating his
novels (due to tendinitis), and there was no holding him back. At least
one Harvard professor called him "the greatest American novelist," but
this work is deservedly minor.

The movie was perfect, in the top 1% of all I've seen. The style was
the antithesis of James, radical "showing" instead of "telling." 

I think the title should have been "What Maisie SAW," but that's too
titillating. What she knew or felt only her future therapist will
learn. We do have a hint though when her father throws her mother's
flowers away, and M explains, "He was allergic."
