
What a breath of fresh air... A brilliant film in every respect. I was
lucky enough to this movie at a special preview and I cant tell you how
great a film this is... At first you think its about racing cars, but
its not it really does give you an insight into the human condition...

The rivalry between Hunt and Lauder is just played brilliantly... The
race sequences are superb, really taking you back to the 70s... The
heyday of this awesome sport. It shows the end of an era where the
gentlemen drivers begin to give way to professional sportsmen and the
end (in my opinion) of the excitement of the sport. It shows what a
pale reflection today's F1 is of this once great sport, and what great
characters we have lost...

A real must see movie
<|_=00=_|>
The film is just over 2 hours long, but when it was over it seemed like
I had been in the cinema about 30 minutes. 

The film centres on the battle for the 1976 Formula 1 World
Championship, and the rivalry between the Austrian "professor" Nikki
Lauda and the British playboy James Hunt. 

The two are depicted as enemies, but in actual fact they were good
friends who trusted and respected each other on, as well as off-track.
This bit of artistic licence does not spoil the film and is reasonable
in order to make the battle between the two for the F1 crown more
intense. 

The film is nicely paced. We are introduced to both characters through
their own narrative and scenes that leave the watcher in no doubt as to
their background and philosophy on life. 

The two are first seen in competition in 1970 at a Formula 3 race at
Crystal Palace (where they have a coming together) and sets the scene
for the rivalry throughout the film. I'm not sure if this is further
artistic licence. The two definitely did race each other in F3, but I
am not convinced as to whether this actual incident occurred. 

After that we are given a whistle stop journey between 1973 (when Hunt
came into F1) to 1975. We are shown the dangerous nature of F1 at the
time with the Francois Cevert accident at Watkins Glen in gory detail 
although this does not seem like gratuitous, but necessary to bring
home just how unforgiving the sport was back then  and it truly was
(of the top 12 points scorers in 1976, F1 cars were to claim 3, 1 ended
up in a wheelchair and 1 had his career ended by a leg crunching
crash). 

We are then taken to 1976 and that titanic struggle for the World
Crown. Only one real issue here  the British Grand Prix result, but I
suspect this was simplified in the interests of time. 

The casting is superb. Chris Hemsworth, an Aussie, does an excellent
job on public schoolboy James Hunt, while Daniel Bruhl both sounds and
looks frighteningly like the Austrian. There is little room for a
supporting cast amongst the drivers which is a shame  only Clay
Regazzoni has a part of any real substance. Peterson, Watson,
Depailler, Scheckter, Andretti et al could have featured a little more
I think. What did their contemporaries think of the two protagonists?
The supporting cast is mainly required for Hunt  Lord Hesketh,
"Bubbles" Horsley and Teddy Mayer / Tyler Alexander of McLaren, while
the Ferrari team principals are rarely seen. 

The love angle is perfectly catered for by Olivia Wilde (Hunt's first
wife Suzy) and the gorgeous Alexandra Maria Lara - of Downfall fame 
as the future Marlene Lauda. Both give quality performances. 

The attention to detail is superb. Although the tracks are not the
actual ones (for understandable reasons) the cars, the helmets, the
sponsors are all authentic. The film "feels" like it's happening in the
70's. 

For anyone interested in great personal stories, F1, the 70's, cars or
just like to see a great film, then Rush is for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Really. 

His performance in Rush came as a huge surprise. This is his best
performance by quite some margin, a role which he plays with a great
deal of maturity and respect. He plays Hunt with just the right level
of arrogance, cockiness, confidence and audacity to convince you that
he was real life 70's playboy James Hunt, a man destined to live fast
and die young.

Bruhl is superb as Niki too. It's a role that he deserves much
recognition for, particularly his accent and mannerisms. Lauda was one
of the first of a new generation of professional driver, driving the
old playboy characters out of the sport and Bruhl nails this icy
determination to succeed magnificently. 

A particular nod goes to Christian McKay's portrayal as the slightly
eccentric, petrol head extraordinaire, ever so aristocratic but
hopelessly financially incompetent Lord Hesketh. 

The camera work is spectacular, none less so than with some very
creative angles of the beautifully filmed on track action. The brief
in-helmet camera shots are inspired, giving you a glimpse of the
drivers world. CGI work will be spotted by the keen eyed, but you have
to consider that without it that there are certain scenes involving
priceless period machinery (the sound of a Cosworth DFV firing up and
filling the cinema was worth the ticket price alone) that would be just
impossible to film as accurately as they were depicted here with real
machinery. As a result, they are able to use the CGI sparingly and to
good effect.

The main facts of the 1976 season are on the whole handled very
accurately. Certainly, some liberties are taken with poetic licence,
but this is still a scripted film and not a documentary. The factually
heavy writing of the script along with beautifully filmed and liberal
use of period machinery being recorded at pace on real asphalt will be
enough to keep the fans of the sport well represented.

It's a gripping telling of the 1976 Formula 1 season, which whilst not
sharing the same shear spectacle of Howard's other 'too unbelievable to
be true' film Apollo 13, Rush tells a story which would be just too
unbelievable in terms of human bravery and personal destiny for any
fictional story to be given credence. It's a tale which will be enough
to hold the unfamiliar or casual viewer's attention with a steel firm
grip to see how the different personalities handle the pressures of
life both on and off the track and how rising to the top takes it's
tole on these two polar opposite real life gladiators of the race
track.

With the lead actors clearly committed to giving their best
performances yet and a tastefully handled script, Ron Howard delivers a
visually impressive account of events that may well become one of his
most respected directorial efforts yet.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is an amazing film. I can't recommend it highly enough for F1 fans
like me, sports fans, or anyone interested in a story of rivalry i.e.
something different to the unoriginal junk movies which get churned out
each year.

All the crew involved should pat themselves on the back. They've done a
fabulous job making this film critique, explore and honour two
memorable F1 drivers.

James Hunt's fun, party lifestyle along with his brash and raw driving
talent. This is contrasted against Niki Lauda's methodical thinking,
technical brilliance and professional lifestyle. These two characters
are total opposites but as their lives are explored it also
acknowledges the value of an enemy, i.e. something to beat. I believe
this is a commentary on human nature in that the best of us shines when
we have something to beat or overcome.

Do yourself a favour and see it now.
<|_=00=_|>
Mr. Ron Howard is a great story teller, this movie is about human
nature, love and tears.

It is difficult to make a good movie about car racing, especially to
make one for the time period from 1970 to 1976. I don't know how they
did it to bring those old F1 cars back to life. You will feel like you
are really there watching the racing, it's really unbelievable.

It is truly touching to see each character played their perfect role
for this movie, Chris Hemsworth did a great performance, he is such a
talented and devoted actor. Daniel Brühl also did a great job on
portraying the eccentric and unsociable legendary F1 driver Niki Lauda.

A great movie is like having a great meal, a good starter, a good
soup/salad, a good main course and a good dessert, well balanced. Rush
is that good meal, it's a fun ride!

I have to say I really enjoyed watching this movie. Thank you Mr. Ron
Howard for making this masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen the trailers and TV set-up (BBC as a Grand Prix insert) I
was thinking OK so I've probably seen the best of this and it's going
to be 'clunky' in parts or too far up it's own a$$.

But hey we can all be wrong, Ron Howard has added depth to a story I
knew well, the presentation has a feel for the era the colour's are
sometimes harsh and edgy.

The set pieces are well researched, the owners of some of the classic
F1 hardware must have had an enjoyable time (not quite so sure about
the Insurance Underwriters).

Where the story hits the spot for me is the acting of the main
protagonists, they have life and depth. Hemsworths presentation of
James Hunt is uncanny it's like a documentary he's almost as good as
Daniel Day-Lewis in Lincoln.

If your not a F1 fan or from the 70's it may not be more than a blokes
film, but give it a go it is going to end up being a important as
Apollo 13 in the life of Mr Howard and quite frankly is by far the best
car racing movie ever
<|_=00=_|>
In 1976, the rivalry between two brilliant racing car drivers, the
British James Hunt and the Austrian Nikki Lauda, came to a head in the
almost literally life-and-death struggle of the Formula One
championship. American director Ron Howard ("Apollo 13", "A Beautiful
Mind", "Frost/Nixon") and British scriptwriter Peter Morgan (both play
and screenplay of "Frost/Nixon") have done a terrific job bringing the
titanic struggle to the big screen, aided by some excellent casting and
powerful sound and cinematography. Those were the days when most years
a couple of drivers would be killed, so the stakes could not be higher.

Sensibly the car racing does not over-dominate, since this is
essentially a character- driven conflict, but when the racing is on
screen - notably in the final race - the excitement is visceral. The
Australian Chris Hemsworth (previously best known as "Thor") and the
Spanish-born German Daniel Brühl ("Inglourious Basterds") are so good
as the British and Austrian drivers respectively that the dialect
coaches should receive a special commendation. Arguably Brühl gives the
stronger performance which should auger well for his future career.

A great strength of this tale is that there is not a hero or a villain.
Both drivers had privileged backgrounds and were superbly talented, but
both were flawed. although in very contrasting ways, including styles
of thinking, driving and womanising (Olivia Wilde as model Suzy Miller
and Alexandra Maria Lara as aristocratic Marlene Knaus respectively).

I never saw the recent film "Senna" (2010) so "Rush" reminded me most
of the much older "Grand Prix" (1966), but what is stunning about
"Rush" is that it all happened. A season of the fastest sport in the
world decided in the last race by one point - you couldn't make it up.
Rush to see the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Just come out the cinema in York from watching Rush! Oh my god! One of
the most intense films I have watched in a very long time with gripping
performances from Hemsworth and Brühl! An extremely clever script from
Peter Morgan in which he doesn't pick sides, but instead allows the
audience to view these characters in their own light.

I am a huge fan of F1 so when viewing a film relating to that sport it
would be questionable that there are some anachronisms or minor
problems. But no! There was not a single fault with this film, it is
the most realistic sports film I have viewed! A film that portrays the
rivalry between the British and Austrian world champions and the
fateful crash. With some powerful dialogue from Lauda and Hunt.

Even if you aren't a fan of F1, the intense action and no-holds
adrenaline should keep you entertained from start to finish. With a
great sway of emotions from melancholy to ecstatic! This film deserves
the acclaimed reviews it has been receiving.
<|_=00=_|>
As a Cineworld Card Holder I was invited to a screening last night of
Ron Howards new movie Rush.

Before I start...I am not a F1 fan, but I knew enough of the history of
the main protagonists to appreciate the film. The main set pieces of
the film set a year before I was born in 1976, so mainly my knowledge
was based on my Fathers recollection of the events. I'd seen James Hunt
in interviews and recently watched footage with Niki Lauda so got an
idea of the characters.

The film is bang on in period, cars fashion and sets the tone
excellently, the cinematography is nothing short of breathtaking and
the fx are very much in keeping with the period, no ridiculous CGI.

The acting, on the whole is nothing short of miraculous, Hemsworth and
Bruhl are fantastic, particularly Hemsworth, who's accent, mannerisms
and natural acting was a big surprise. I could see a few awards for
this role. I have seen Bruhl in quite a few films and I am always
impressed so this just continues the trend. All the support actors are
very good in smaller roles.

The film is well paced for 2 hours and quite graphic, particularly a
few accident scenes.

Direction: Ron Howard - nice job, I'm not a massive fan and
particularly after the da vinci/Angels fiasco's a big return to decent
form. The flair was there but played safe (As normal) but let the story
and the actors take centre stage.

If you like History in F1, a well documented rivalry and a film that
capture this, watch it. It is similar to the excellent Control,
Moneyball etc but with a bit of heart.

8 1/2 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
As Asif Kapadia's gripping and extremely moving 2010 documentary Senna 
proved, cinema audiences have a thirst for the larger-than-life 
characters that inhabit the Formula One track. The sport itself is 
frightfully dull (although I'm sure plenty will disagree with that), 
but the sportsmen willing to lay down their life for a kick and a 
trophy are infinitely more fascinating, especially in the days of lax 
safety rules. The sport nowadays is little more than advertising on 
wheels, but when the likes of James Hunt and Niki Lauda battled it out 
on the track, epic rivalries were created, and no matter how talented 
these men were at driving these "coffins on wheels", every race could 
spell out death.

Rush portrays the clash of two opposing personalities. The long-haired, 
dashing Englishman James Hunt (Chris Hemsworth) was all about the 
adrenaline, embracing the post-race parties and lying with the many 
women that would throw themselves at him. He was reckless, willing to 
risk his life and others in order to win, but, as described in the 
film, there was no better driver in the world in terms of raw talent. 
His rival, Austrian Niki Lauda (Daniel Bruhl), was focused, clinical, 
and even helped design the cars he would drive. He was the early-night 
type, 'rat-faced' and cold. In every sense, he's the perfect villain.

But where Rush succeeds the most is challenging our early conceptions 
of these two characters. There's little fun to be had with Lauda, but 
played by Bruhl, he evolves into the underdog of the movie, perhaps the 
only one that actually gives a damn about his own life and the life of 
his opponents. This, naturally, leads to tragedy and a particularly 
wince-inducing scene in which Lauda requires having his lungs vacuumed, 
but it's at this point that we realise just what these two drivers mean 
to each other. As Lauda watches Hunt claw back some points in the 1976 
Formula One season, it becomes clear that these two need each other to 
survive. Their hatred of one another only serves to fuel the flames, 
and leads to Lauda's defiant early return to the driver's seat, scarred 
and bandaged.

Fast cars, beautiful women and exotic locations hardly sounds like a 
recognisable workload for Ron Howard, one of the most play-it-easy 
directors out there. His past films have been unjustifiably successful, 
critically and commercially, never stamping a recognisable directorial 
trait onto his work. Yet here, although the bright sheen of the 70's 
initially takes some getting used to, he has managed to create a world 
that is very much alive, using snappy editing, a pumping soundtrack and 
some growing sound design to re-create this world for petrol-heads. But 
he doesn't neglect his characters, and evokes the great work done on 
Frost/Nixon (2008), which was also a study of two giant, clashing 
personalities coming together on the world stage.

Rush is an exhilarating experience, able to distinguish each race from 
the next and literally putting us in the driver's seat with the use of 
digital cameras. Although it occasionally drifts into formulaic 
territory with the introduction of the 'wives' (played by Oivia Wilde 
and Alexandra Maria Lara, respectively), Howard cleverly uses this as 
an insight into Hunt and Lauda's personalities. Hemsworth is very good 
in his first 'proper' post-Thor role, but it is Bruhl that you take 
away from the film. How he gets you to initially loath him, only to be 
cheering him on at the climax is the work of a great actor, and it's a 
crime that he has been snubbed by the Academy this year. Hopefully this 
will inspire a host of decent sports movies, as Rush proves that you 
can mix character study and even existential musings with the thrill of 
sport.


