
Don't waste money, no story, you don't feel for the characters. The end
is so abrupt every one was waiting that at least director would give
one good scene, but credits appear.

2/3 movie is about last movie and it was too hard to relate to any
character and you feel what do I care...in last 30 minutes games start,
no parallel story lines for other participants, again you feel I don't
care if they win or loose. The action scenes are very average and the
entire movie is so predictable.

It does not deserve this high rating. You will find it uninteresting
and hard to retain interest for 2 hours and 40 minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
Before you catch fire this weekend, be sure to rewatch THE HUNGER
GAMES, because for the first half of this brooding, inferior sequel,
the characters do nothing but wallow in their extremely complicated
past 

With banal, pretentious dialogue even worse than a soap opera, the
teen-adored romantic adventure has reached an extremely corny level...
Even the preparation for the games, introducing a new crop of teams and
contestants, is dull and uninteresting. 

The overall plot involves a post-apocalyptic world wherein The Capitol
rules with an iron fist, and to avoid the threat of revolution there
are televised games in which young people fight each other to the
death... Making one highly resilient warrior, Katniss Everdeen
(Jennifer Lawrence), a revered folk hero risking everything for love.

Well if that sounds both intriguing and exciting, it sure was... 

But this time around, the cutthroat survival aspect has been replaced
by a wannabe JURRASSIC PARK with fanged baboons and other acts of
bizarre nature including killer fog, thunderstorms and tidal waves

This overly computer-generated switch-up, attempting to raise stakes
from the original, ultimately leaves the audience  both within the
film's game show and inside your local theater  nothing and no one to
actually root for.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie after seeing that in IMDb, it got a rating of
8.3 out of 10. Even though I saw some bad reviews about it, I was
certain that a movie that got such a high rating in this kind of site
must have something to offer. My god was I wrong. Where do I begin?

Dialogue is poorly written and awkward at times. For example, when
Peeta finds a pearl in the clam he just tells Katniss "For you" or
something, and she replies with "Thanks" and takes the pearl. Wow. Just
wow. What was the screenwriter or whoever writes that thing thinking? I
honestly started laughing when I heard these lines.

Screen time is wasted and an hour and fifteen minutes into the movie,
almost nothing happened and I started drifting away, something that has
never happened in the first movie which I saw like three times. They
did switch directors from the first movie, and it shows.

Unlike the previous Hunger Games, the sequel is plain boring, even in
its most action-packed scenes, such as the toxic fog and the part where
Peeta dies. So they manage to get past the fog and Peeta lives. Wooh, a
twist! Everything that happens is so damn predictable and just
uninteresting. Since over an hour passed until the games actually
start, we don't get a chance to bond with the other tributes, and we
just don't care about anyone except Katniss and Peeta. The part where
the old lady runs into the fog in order to "save the others" could be
much more emotional for the viewer if we only cared about her!

Also, ending a movie with a cliffhanger like this is just frustrating
and plain lazy. This is something you can do in a TV series, where you
get to see the resolution in the next episode in a week, but when done
in a movie, it is clearly a way to force us viewers to watch the next
sequel in order to get a satisfying resolution and cash-in on the way.
In short, the ending is disappointing and doesn't resolve anything that
happened so far. Did I just pay a full price for a prequel to when the
story really kicks in to action?

I can go on and on about other things, such as the poor decision-making
done by some of the characters (The bare-chested tribute knifing down
the genius' wife while exposing himself to Katniss shooting him in the
chest) or the stereotypical depiction of soldiers being sadistic,
ruthless and unmerciful like robots instead of showing some small shred
of humanity. I mean seriously, the Nazis weren't this cruel.

However, there are some good sides to this movie. Jennifer Lawrence
acts wonderfully and does try to express some of Katniss' feelings. She
does a great job. Josh Hutcherson gives a decent performance as well,
playing the confused-from-love-and-fame Peeta. Other side-characters
are depicted very well, and the overall acting in this film is superb.

Here and there there are some stronger scenes that save the movie from
being a total bore, such as the fight against the baboons and Katniss
and Peeta's first speech which was wonderfully acted.

Overall, this is a 5. There are some bright spots here and there in
this movie, but they are just outweighed by the general boredom and
heaviness of the rest of the film, and I found myself not giving a damn
about nearly anything that happened on screen. Great acting and some
strong scenes are burdened by poor dialogue and weak directing.

And that's pretty much it. I can't believe that this movie is believed
to be one of 2013's best movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to be able to watch the movie one week early, since
it opened here in Brazil one week before the release in the US, and I
must tell you this fellow The Hunger Games fans, even though my English
is not even that good: Catching Fire is a GREAT experience, and one
that improves over the first film in nearly every possible level.

When I first read the books, I thought that they were not only
incredibly addicting and fun, but also with an important message for
the youngsters (and every other person, age is not important) who read
it, and that made it different from some of the other uninteresting YA
books around. I really liked the trilogy, and when I watched the first
adaptation, I was disappointed with some aspects and routes they went
with it. It was not an horrible movie, at all, but it was not very
faithful to the book and lacked the impact I found in the novel.

With that in mind, I kept my excitement in close watch with Catching
Fire and went expecting a good movie and nothing more. I was welcomed
with an excellent surprise: the movie followed the events of the novel
whenever possible and brilliantly so, while managing to keep me on the
edge of my seat, even though I knew what was going to happen the entire
time.

I won't go into details about the plot of the movie, some fellow
reviewers already did it probably better than I'll ever do and the
chances you're familiar with it are high. So I'll go right into the
review and my opinions on the picture.

Francis Lawrence was nothing short of an excellent choice for the
director's chair: gone are the shaky camera action (one of my major
problems with the first film) and welcome are thrilling and pumping
action scenes that expertly convey the tension and ferocity of the
moment. He managed to keep the violence and shock without ever crossing
the line, and whoever read the books know how important this is; it's
part of the plot, of the criticism and one of the main elements that
make the whole point of the film. He keeps you interested and invested
in the story even when nothing bombastic is happening, and that is a
great achievement, something that really sets this sequel apart.

But Francis is not alone on making this movie special. His young and
talented cast, lead by the always amazing Jennifer Lawrence, is
ferocious and eager to invest in their characters, making you an ally
(or an enemy) while watching everything unfold. Lawrence shows us again
why she was the perfect choice to play the now iconic Katniss Everdeen:
she makes you root for this young, brave lady every single minute of
the struggle; with her sad, hopeless stare that pierces your soul to
her ability to convey admirable strength when everything seems to be
out of reach are phenomenal and she deserves the praise she gets.

The rest of the cast is uniformly good, but I have to highlight Jena
Malone, who plays the explosive Johanna: her presence makes the screen
on fire whenever she's in, mixing the perfect amount of attitude and
humor. A particular scene involving an elevator and a fancy dress is at
the same time hilarious and shocking, just like her character. Donald
Sutherland also shines as the menacing president Snow, in a restrained
performance that doesn't need too many words spoken to make you think
twice on how dangerous he is.

The set pieces are also vastly improved upon: bigger, more ambitious
and work perfectly in sync with the action to make for some really
unforgettable moments. The arena looks beautiful and foreboding, hiding
it's dangers behind the shining green water. So does the bizarre
Capitol and the Districts, full of sadness and fear, two dichotomies in
every aspect.

But what I really liked about the movie was that they didn't shy away
from the political aspects from the novel and conveyed the despair and
oppression imposed by the Capitol over the rest of Panem. It makes you
think that all of this is happening around the world, in one way or
another, maybe masquerade, but it is. It's sad that many teenagers are
only in this ride for the hot action and beautiful people (some
screaming girls in the movie theater I went only confirm this. They
were not the majority, it was packed and most people were also
extremely annoyed by it too - every time Finnick appeared it was a
screaming hell). It has so much more to offer.

The Hunger Games: Catching Fire not only improves vastly upon it's
predecessor: it's a great cinematic experience by itself, touching on
important topics about the modern day society without losing it's
thrilling core. It's not perfect, but what it does right it goes right
into the bullseye. Don't let the hype or the teen fury on this fool
you: it is entertainment at it's best.
<|_=00=_|>
I have neither seen the first movie, nor read the book. So I should
admit that I am an outsider to this Hunger Games hype. However, high
expectations for this sequel among the fans and high rating at IMDb
tempted me to watch it. The first thing I do not really get is 8.3
rating here. My ratings and IMDb ratings have never fallen that apart
in recent years!

The first 1:30 hours, (ie complete duration of a regular feature film)
is definitely one of the most boring fist halves I have ever seen. The
story evolves but without any strategic emphasis or proofs on none of
the important plots of the story. The directing was so weak that I
would not understand a real uprising is baking among the districts, if
president Snow had explicitly informed us about that risk previously in
the opening. The Victors' Tour meeting scenes were definitely far from
adequate to reflect the revolutionary atmosphere in the districts.

Jennifer Lawrence's performance is one of the good things in the movie.
In fact, in some parts her lead was the only reason to stay focused.
But despite her acting performance we could not get her actual view of
the events. The hope she creates in the people, or what she really
cares, even her indecision between two man was not properly explored.
And considering this superficial character building for the lead role,
I am not surprised none of the other characters had a chance to become
real. Shallow characters wasted a lot of drama during the film,
especially in the more intense action scenes. Director's understanding
of character building is having mere close-ups on beautiful face of
Katniss Everdeen.

President Snow can not escape from the fate of being a shallow
character. While Snow is the symbol of the authoritarian government,
his character was only partly revealed and the director misses the
valuable moments with sub par dialogs between Snow and his grand
daughter, or others to create a solid portrait of a man of power and
loneliness.

Finally, in the second half, the action starts. Despite the quality of
the cinematography even action scenes can not surround you enough. As
an important example, the idea of poisonous fog is a brilliant one, but
the chase between the spreading fog and Katniss and her allies is not
thrilling or even believable at all.

The final is the worst part. The whole final scene rushed into a mere
couple of minutes to miss and ruin many important aspects of the story.
Revealing the revolutionaries, explaining the whole grand plan behind
the 75th hunger game are all squeezed into 2-3 sequences in the last 5
minutes. This short and economical final is of course a choice of
director Francis Lawrence but then why did he kill us by boredom of
around two and a half hours?

And of course the final scene is like a teaser of a TV series for
inviting the audience to the third hunger games. No Sir, movies should
be complete even if there will be planned sequels. There is a start and
an end to the movies, at least the ones I prefer to watch.

So, why I still gave it a 5/10. I think this very poorly directed story
is indeed interesting and progressive. The Capital, suppressed and poor
districts, growing feeling of injustice, police terror, authoritarian
and corrupt government and dictator Snow. All make up a good setting
for a dystopian yet realistic sci-fi atmosphere. But director
trivializes this brilliant story. Still Jennifer Lawrence leads the
movie with her strong character. Cinematography is good, despite
lacking in drama especially in action scenes. So the story would have
really made it big in the big screen. But in the hands of Francis
Lawrence, it became a boring and long sci-fi flick.

While I was leaving the theater, I was still trying to understand why
it got 8.3 from IMDb. Fans?
<|_=00=_|>
This elaborate mess of a movie couldn't be more boring and silly. The
premise is astoundingly dumb, far worse than the original and a non
existent plot you can see coming a mile away.

The acting is wooden, the emotions fake and the direction dull.

I would say this is for kids if not for the whole murder aspect but you
would have to be a child to like it. It comes off so hammy and unreal.
I think I was about to fall asleep about ten times.

Please don't make a third one.

This is what we can expect from a generation of writers who have no
sense of real drama, the Harry Potter and Twilight crowd who flock to
this garbage like a moth to a flame and come out raving about it.
<|_=00=_|>
Really childish movie, this planet is going dumber by the minute.
Obviously the dudes well-connected enough to write for Hollywood can't
 umm  write. 

Just a few points: (1) not one intelligent (or at least funny) line of
dialog in over 140 minutes; (2) The "Games" started after 81 worthless
minutes; can't they afford to hire some reasonably intelligent dude to
do some editing?; (3) The characters were one-dimensional (like in some
fourth grader first attempt at writing): the big bro and the peace
keepers-- ALL-EVIL, while Jennifer and her buddies were ALL-WONDERFUL;
(4) The "Games" were ridiculously uncreative: poisonous fog that can be
treated with water, really?!; (5) Not one twist during 146 min, except
for the lame one (cuz it was overly expected, since it has to be at
least some twist in any movie, right?) with the games director in the
end. 

If you're not part of the ridiculous tribe of low IQed 11-yo
schoolgirls worshiping Bieber: RUN! My rating: 3/10
<|_=00=_|>
An earlier reviewer compared this to the Japanese cult favorite Battle
Royale and decided it was almost junk. I beg to differ - the film needs
to be evaluated on its own merits and its own story. Battle Royale is a
single story about merciless, wanton and senseless violence and
depravity when the aim was simply to be the last to survive - a kill-
fest, where the innovative ways of killing serve to shock and titillate
the audience but do little for the plot. The Hunger Games however, is
about oppression, fighting back and revolution. The Games, though
pivotal, are still part of a larger story.

Compared to the first film, this one is definitely darker. The
characters look even more despondent than ever, and if you thought
there were few laughs in the first film, there is practically none in
this. Even the brightly-lit scenes featuring cheering crowds and
smiling hosts seemed dim, bleak and depressing. While enjoying the
witty banter, you couldn't help but wait for the 'but...'. The feeling
of doom and gloom persists from the start to the end of the film. It is
not a bad thing though - it is not supposed to be a happy movie.

Many details and subplots were understandably cut from the film
adaptation, but none that were critical to the plot of the film.
However, a lot of the peripheral action that were in the book is
missing here, hence, though the story moves quickly enough, there is
always the feeling that for an action-thriller, there aren't enough
fights or explosions. The ones they movie do have aren't exciting or
grand enough.

But in terms of story-telling, the movie still works to move from the
first film and prepare for the third. The seeds of revolution have been
planted and watered, and we now prepare for the maturing and
harvesting.

Jennifer Lawrence didn't do as well here as in the last film, probably
because most of the growing needed has been done previously. Josh
Hutcherson though, put in a better performance. While he may previously
be the injured lovestruck puppy dog, his maturing into a more complex
character in this movie means he starts carrying more of the film.

Emotionally, this movie affected me less than the last one. Maybe it's
partly because I know what is coming, but that accounts for a very
minor percentage. Mostly it's because the film is unable to engage your
baser emotions - nothing that truly tugs at your heartstrings. The
pervading gloom also seems to have sapped any ability to feel more
despondent than you think you already are.

It is still a movie that can be enjoyed though, and I did enjoy it
enough. Hopefully the next film will provide for more emotional
variance. If you don't feel for the characters, you won't care about
the film.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I'm not sure how I can review this one without dropping a few
spoilers here and there, so I marked this one as "contains spoilers",
just in case. First, you need to know the point of view from which I
approached this movie...in order to understand why I rated it awful. I
did not read the books. I did not read any of the books. In fact, I
can't remember a single book I have read in the past 10 years or so. I
*DID* however see the first movie in the series, Hunger Games. I went
to see Hunger Games only because I'd read it was a really good movie. I
was NOT disappointed. Hunger Games (the first movie) was one of the
best movies I have ever seen! 10/10, simply awesome!!!

In fact, it was because I enjoyed the FIRST movie so much that I felt I
definitely had to see the SECOND movie in the theater. 

And so I went to the second movie knowing NOTHING about it, other than
having remembered that the first movie was awesome...

The first hour or so of Catching Fire was pretty boring. But it was
easy to sit through it, as it was building anticipation for the action
that you knew was coming. And oh yes, there was plenty of action to
come later. But just as quickly as the action started, the action
ended.

In fact, as the credits were rolling, I was glued to my seat. I was
refusing to believe that it was over.

I've had a couple of days to ponder how to review this movie. At first,
I was thinking something along the lines of... "It seems like the
producers ran out of money halfway through filming, but decided to
release it unfinished anyway..." But later, I realized... What I'd just
watched (Catching Fire) was actually a two-hour trailer for Hunger
Games 3.

No conclusion of plot here, just setting up plot for a future movie. I
paid 10 bucks to watch a trailer. I feel ripped off.
<|_=00=_|>
Where do I begin? Of course the length. It's just ridiculously long,
without anything that would make the viewer interested in, without
principles or a cause. The main protagonist is a dumb little girl who
can't even fathom her convictions, let alone hold on to them. She has a
guy loving her, working in the MINES, while she's pretending not to
like the parade of her and her "victorious" boyfriend from the games
and all the posh show-off that happens. When the guy opens up to her
and shows her that more than *she* matters, and the fact that he won't
just run off with her, while all the rest stay in misery, all she can
do is just leave. Then there's the other (long) part of the movie where
she just starts to create this whole different relationship, while her
lover is left behind the screen. What sort of morality is this movie
trying to portray? Is this what the western world is moving towards to?
Just awful.
