
The final moments of Anton Corbijn's latest film A Most Wanted Man are
both gratifying and poetic. Starring an impeccable cast that includes
the late Philip Seymour Hoffman, Rachel McAdams, Willem Dafoe, and
Robin Wright, the film is based on the novel by John le Carré, and is a
tension-driven and smartly paced thriller ride that makes a mark as one
of the year's best rides.

A movie that is more in the vein of an extended episode of "Homeland"
than a full-out feature (which is not exactly an insult), is tightly
wound, fish hooking the audience with its clever storytelling
abilities. Corbijn creates a meticulous and subtle picture that
unravels itself with suspense and excitement. The movie challenges the
audience in attempting to follow each detail and fully understand what
is going on. That might be a turn off to many. Like many of Carré's
books that have been translated to film like Tinker, Tailor, Soldier,
Spy and The Constant Gardener, there's an aura that exudes from the
screen that you want to take home with you. There's so much to the
story that happens before the film and starts and long after the movie
ends but you're satisfied with that. Adapted by Andrew Bovell, the
Australian screenwriter may have penned the film of his career.

The elephant in the room is the performance of Philip Seymour Hoffman.
It's very hard to not want the film to end because you are very aware
that this will be one of the last times you see a new film by this
actor. One of the greatest actors to have ever lived, Hoffman shows
exactly why his omission from our world is such a loss. Subtle,
electrifying, and profoundly real, Hoffman's "Gunther Bachmann" is an
intriguing force that demands the audience's attention with the
simplicity of a tone or look. While the tween world waits on the
arrival of the final two installments to The Hunger Games, this film
felt more of his goodbye to the film community that has appreciated him
for over two decades.

One of the pleasant surprises of the film is the beautiful and talented
Rachel McAdams, which immediately makes you think, "where has she
been?"

While she has been making her rounds in independent films like Passion,
About Time, and To the Wonder, her role as "Annabel" shows a deeper
talent that is aching to be realized by the right director.
Internalizing emotions and releasing only when called upon, McAdams
turns in her one of her strongest turns yet. Not your A-typical "damsel
in distress" or "unbelievable tough chick," McAdams reinvents a
character that could have just laid on the screen with no emotion. She
relaxes herself into the role, working well off some of the screen's
most gifted performers. It's a magnificent work.

With no real arc or allowance to his character, Willem Dafoe
unfortunately distracts for much of the film. Feeling like he's part of
the Osborne family again, his role is rather underwritten and a bit of
a mystery but not one you're aching to learn more about. Robin Wright
utilizes her sensational appeal and charismatic nature to sprinkle a
dash of brilliance to the film's narrative. As "Issa," Grigoriy
Dobrygin keeps the viewer at a distance, never allowing his true
motives to unleash. He constantly asks the viewer to question our own
judgment. He is very impressive.

With a gritty yet polished aesthetic, Corbijn knows exactly how he
wants his film to look and feel. Using Cinematographer Benoît Delhomme
keeps the tension at the very brim of explosion. Composer Herbert
Grönemeyer, who also has a role in the film as "Michael," lays out a
soothing, relentless score that is both memorable and undeniable. 

A Most Wanted Man is smart and precise, an espionage thriller that
stands out as one of the best of its kind in quite some time. It's
confident in its approach and doesn't shy away from its central
purpose. It's a morality tale that engulfs your conscience with
terrifying and difficult questions. I don't mind being asked them every
now and again. It's one of the year's best.

Read more @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com)
<|_=00=_|>
A Most Wanted Man (2014) was directed by Anton Corbijn. It's based on a
novel by John le Carré. The film stars Philip Seymour Hoffman.
Basically, that's all you need to know about this movie.

Philip Seymour Hoffman is Günther Bachmann, a self-described spy.
(Actually a counter-intelligence agent.) He's involved with a Chechen
immigrant who has been tortured. There's money going from Hamburg to
terrorists, but no one knows how this money gets there. Somehow the
Chechen is involved. On and on it goes, with the German police opposing
Günther, the CIA opposing Günther, and everyone betraying everyone
else.

Günther is burned out and, essentially, has no life other than being a
spy. As far as we can see, he never takes time off, he is interested in
nothing other than work, and he has no friends and no colleagues he can
trust. Hoffman portrays this part perfectly. No one could have done it
as well.

A Most Wanted Man is pure Carré, and pure Hoffman, and that's why you
should see it. If you're not impressed with Carré, or not impressed
with Hoffman, there's no point going to the film.

We saw the movie on the large screen at the wonderful Dryden Theatre in
Rochester, NY. However, it will work just as well on the small screen.
No scuba shots, no mountain skiing shots--this isn't James Bond. If you
know what to expect--gritty shots of Hamburg, Germany--you won't be
disappointed, and the movie will work for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Plenty of people have already said this, but it's entirely true: 9/11
unleashed a far larger terror than just devastation to two buildings
and many lives; it unleashed widespread paranoiasuspicion of the
average Arab and yet another division in ideologies. Guantanamo Bay,
contrary to majority belief, isn't only holding convicted terrorists
but those innocent men accused of such turpitude as well. Wrongfully
marking, such institutions have afforded authorities the ability to
aggressively interrogate and brutally torture so much as a suspect.
This is the kind of monster the culprits behind 9/11 released onto the
world. 

A Most Wanted Man chillingly manifests the terrifying degree to which
intelligence organizations are (desperately) willing to go in order to
identify their targets and extract imperative information. In this
case, a man named Issa (Grigoriy Dobrygin) is that targeta former
detainee of both a Russian and Turkish prison, now on the run as an
innocent man who's being unjustifiably chasedand seeks the assistance
of a lawyer (Rachel McAdams) to safely escape the intimidating clutches
of whatever intelligence agency. The late Phillip Seymour Hoffman plays
a spy who operates from a smaller, independent bureau that's
significantly less forceful and antagonizing than the more powerful
ones surrounding this prey, but still has its wide-open eyes fixed on
Issa and the exact reason behind his illegal emigration to Hamburg,
Germany as a Muslim. 

As to expect from an Anton Corbijn film, this thriller is slower and
more deliberate than most but yet definitely more absorbing and
exciting than 2010's The American. It's also important to note that the
film is an adaptation of the novel (the same title) written by John le
Carré who has also authored gripping narratives like The Constant
Gardner and Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy (both went on to become motion
pictures as well, the former succeeding and the latter failing in my
eyes). Anyway, what commences as a careful study of the crisis
(numerous shots of Hoffman's character smoking in a darkly-lit vehicle
and those of activity in mosques or Issa's movement around the city)
quickens its pace as the stakes are finally realized and the endgame
becomes clearer. From there on out, constant frustration and tension is
totally expected from the audience as competing forces in the midst of
the war on terror all found in the grayer areas of principle rather
than the black-and- whitevie for the upper hand. 

The rest of the cast features the likes of Willem Dafoe (a banker who's
connected to Issa through family friend relations), Robin Wright (a CIA
agent), and Daniel Brühl (working alongside Hoffman as a computer-savvy
agent). Hoffman's performance should absolutely be recognized once the
end of the year approaches, again proving that he never phones it in
(even when we're discussing a YA franchise like The Hunger Games). His
character here is both confident in his path yet cautious at the same
time, blurring our view to determine whether he's more compassionate or
relentlessly unforgiving like the other agents. I also have to give
props to McAdams for finally attempting something fresh at this point
of her career which primarily consists of clichéd romantic comedies;
herein, she doesn't have a romantic partner to latch onto for help as
usual but a foreign fugitive on the brink of capture. As a result,
she's smart (albeit vulnerably frightened) but only human at the same
time. 

In addition, the cinematography is very suiting and noteworthya bluish
hue accompanies a substantial portion of the film as the itty-bitty
details of the environment are forced to stick out (everything kept in
suspense). Everything is visualized solemnly and unhurriedly, and the
filmic look returns as the standard for spy thrillers. A subtle musical
score gives an additional edge of anticipation to the narrative as the
twists and turns emerge and the complexity of the subject matter
deepens. 

Now, if the climax wasn't as explosive and wholly satisfying as it was,
the rest of the film in comparison would've appeared a little too
meandering and eventless for most tastes. However, the subject matter
and thematic material of the picture are (unfortunately) incredibly
relevant in this day and age and the unpredictability of the story
itself will ensue to the very last scene, therefore making this tale a
mature compelling and provocative viewing of our modern worldthe
anguish and trepidation that has devoured us and confused our set of
ethics.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. If you aren't an avid reader of John
le Carre' spy novels, perhaps you've seen movie versions such as Tinker
Tailor Soldier Spy, The Constant Gardener, or The Russia House. If not,
how about director Anton Corbijn's previous film The Amercian (2010
with George Clooney)? The more you've read and seen these, the more you
are prepared for this latest.

Mr. le Carre' actually was part of MI5 and MI6 (British Intelligence)
and uses his experience even so many years ago to provide the type of
post 9/11 anti-terrorism spy thriller that doesn't focus on explosions
and gun play, but rather the subtleties of communication when very
smart people go up against other very smart people who may or may not
share their goals. Secrets and misdirection abound. Traps are set, and
sly maneuverings are pre-planned.

As if all that weren't enough, how about another mesmerizing
performance from the late Philip Seymour Hoffman? He is a master at the
top of his craft here. Sure, maybe the German accent is a bit
distracting at first, but it was necessary because movie audiences
needed a constant reminder that he is not playing an American! I cannot
explain how this chain-smoking, mumbling schlub can so dominate a scene
and disappear into a character, but Hoffman most certainly does both.

In addition to a very cool script, excellent support work comes from
Grigor Dobrygin as Issa, the central figure in Hoffman's character's
work, Willem Dafoe as a somewhat shady banker, as well as Robin Wright,
Daniel Bruhl, Nina Hoss, Homayoun Ershadi, and Rainer Bock. The only
miscast is Rachel McAdams as rich girl turned terrorist sympathizer.

Parts of the score were excellent - the droning, ominous piano notes.
The composer was Herbert Gronemeyer, a German rock star (you'd never
know from the score). This is a delicious, challenging look at
international spies and how one never knows where they fall on the food
chain ... minnow, barracuda, shark. http://moviereviewsfromthedark.com/
<|_=00=_|>
This film is all about how bureaucracy works. How the spy agencies
tackle and deal with problems that arise. Different agencies have
different and sometimes contrasting ways to deal with the same problem
and this leads to a dilemma which I think is the main theme of the
film. The movie addresses the question of whether it is better to come
up with the quick solution by nabbing the ordinary low-lives who become
terrorists by getting influenced by others or is it worth the patience
to let them do what they are supposed to in order to get to the real
bosses and masterminds and get to a solution that is more significant
and I think it addresses it brilliantly. The director develops a very
tensed atmosphere throughout the entire film and never succumbs to the
pressure of coming up with flashy over the top action sequences and the
screenplay is very realistic. Now let's come to the acting. There are
many supporting actors like Rachel Mcadams, Willem Dafoe,etc who are
good. But this film is Philip Seymour Hoffman's vehicle. He is
stupendously brilliant as he always was throughout his career. This
film allows him to go out with a bang and show the world why he was one
of the greatest. He plays a character who is a chain smoker and who
uses this addiction to hide from the failures and struggles of his past
career. Hoffman never puts a foot wrong. While the film was more or
less brilliant, there were one or two minor scenes which seemed
slightly unrealistic and Rachel Mcadams' German accent was sort of on
again off again. But apart from these I can't find any flaws. Some
people who want every spy thriller to be like James Bond have called
this boring, but for people who like gritty,realistic stories about
spies and national security, this will be a rewarding experience.
<|_=00=_|>
I caught this movie at the Century Napa Valley Theater(they have a wine
bar...naturlich!)after work yesterday while waiting for the homeward
bound traffic to die down. It's terrific. A story about German spooks
in Hamburg (Mohamed Ata's launch pad) setting a trap for a suspected
terrorist financier, and not a single shot is fired, no one is killed,
no dead bodies, no impossible martial arts acrobatics and no "amazing"
shots of bullets frozen in mid air. In other words, an actual story via
the maestro John le Carre. The ending is really infuriating, but
probably representative of how a lot of these efforts have ended up
since 9/11. Philip Seymour Hoffman is over the top as the head spook.
I'm sure going to miss him.

Unusually, all the main characters are played by American/Canadian
actors. Not a single Brit or Aussie and Germans only in supporting
roles. Another reason it's a real one-off.

Check it out!
<|_=00=_|>
There's not very many movies I've seen in the past year that measure up
as well as A Most Wanted Man. Granted, I've seen a lot of fun or
interesting films that I definitely enjoyed, but this one really hits
the mark in a way that others didn't. It transcends being entertaining
and becomes its own sort of enigma. But I don't want to give the
impression that it's hard to understand, because it certainly isn't.
The plot is easy to follow (once you get used to the German accents),
and each character has their own tendencies that you pick up on
quickly, but I never quite knew what was about to happen. I was kept on
my toes, or on the edge of my seat rather, and I appreciated how
unpredictable it was.

Set in Hamburg, Germany, it centers around a secret group of
anti-terrorism operatives lead by Günther Bachmann (Philip Seymour
Hoffman). After coming across a brutally tortured Chechen immigrant who
turns up in the local Islamic community, and is laying claim to his
father's corrupt fortune, they attempt to establish his true identity
and motives. And with the US taking close interest as well, it becomes
a slow-burn thriller that unfolds with a huge amount of style and
elegance.

It's the kind-of movie you'd want to curl up by the fireplace and watch
on a cold December night. Hoffman (who is never not smoking a cigarette
in this) delivers one of the best performances in his career, rivaling
his role in Capote. And the direction by Anton Corbijn is outstanding,
giving it a sharp and neat feel that carries throughout. The more I
think about it, the more I like it. It's a definite must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
The plot hardly matters here; it's only a vehicle for exploring the
dirty side of intelligence work and is complicated as a Swiss watch.
Maybe the NSA revelations have you thinking twice about spywork? The
fact that we caught spying on our own allies, the Germans, adds a
special relevance to this tale. But the real appeal here is a)LeCarre's
dark, dark, dark worldview and b) Hoffman's superb acting. He just
tosses this role off, and is utterly convincing. After you see this you
should see the film that perfectly bookends it: LeCarre's early '60s
The Spy Who Came in From the Cold. Just as gritty and dirty and with
Richard Burton as Alec Leamus. Like Gunther Bachmann,Leamus was a
worn-out, beat-up, used-up operative, and audiences of the time,
entranced by the frivolities of James Bond, were rather shocked by the
dose of reality he represented.
<|_=00=_|>
A Most Wanted Man is a thoroughly engaging movie which sadly includes
Phillip Seymour Hoffman's final performance. He is wonderful in the
film and is surrounded by a solid cast, though not nearly as good as
Hoffman. Similar to Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy, the pace is moderate
with almost no summer blockbuster action. It's a wonderful pallet
cleanser for anyone who enjoys a thriller and has already seen a bunch
of the latest CGI showcases. 

Tinker Tailor is more difficult to understand than this movie as A Most
Wanted Man weaves a fairly straight forward plot. Some reviews I read
before seeing the film had me thinking twice about reading the
wikipedia plot synopsis before I went into the theater, but I ventured
in without doing so and didn't have any trouble keeping up. I'll also
be happy to see it again on Blu-Ray in my home theater and will surely
catch much more of the subtle nuances. 

It's well worth the $10+ bucks to see it if you have a good theater
nearby, but if you miss it this summer, it's 100% worth the time to
watch it at home. The scenes are beautifully shot, but don't require an
IMAX sized screen to enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
As much as I respect and at times love director Anton Corbijn's and
author John Le Carré's emphasis on realism, this movie is bogged down
by a lack of focus on one story-defining goal, which is rather
realistic but makes for a difficult watch.

Before anyone gets mad: I am well aware that this is Philip-Seymour
Hoffman's last completed film - which was actually the reason for me to
go see it. And he is good. PSH-good. Meaning, by the standards of most
other actors he is GREAT, but by PSH-standards its a pretty run-of-the-
mill role that does not call for a great performance and Hoffman plays
it like that: A neat little movie experience in Germany that came along
and that he probably did not take too seriously, obviously not
suspecting that it would be his final starring role. And he does well
when you compare it to Willem Dafoe's performance, which he apparently
took very seriously. At times Dafoe seems to hinge on the verge of
overacting, at least when compared to the other actors and his
surroundings.

But the real trouble, as I said, is the story. It starts out as an
espionage thriller focusing on the question whether Issa, a Chechen
Muslim having entered Germany illegally, has come as a terrorist and is
planning on meeting fundamentalists or other radical elements and maybe
blow something up. Slowly the focus then shifts without ever clarifying
that Bachmann (Hoffman) and his team no longer suspect Issa to be
dangerous, but somehow they start acting like they have come to that
conclusion. The focus keeps shifting and in the end you realize the
movie was about something totally different all along which it didn't
stress. Because it is something that Bachmann would have had to stress
and he is not the kind of character who goes on tantrums over things,
so it is realistic but makes the storyline seem a little crooked.

Add to that that around the middle the team decides for a course of
action that seems drastic at first but then ends up slowing the entire
movie down a bit. For about ten to twenty minutes the whole premise
just seems to float and not go anywhere. I felt bored for a while
before the pace picked up again.

As a last concern: Rachel McAdams just doesn't belong here. This is not
really a critique of her or her acting talents which are fine. But
while everybody else looks like the characters they play, she just
looks like a Hollywood starlet who came to spice up an independent
movie with some glamor. Which is completely out of place. It doesn't
help that we all but never see her character, who is supposed to be a
lawyer, do anything lawyerly other than speak to Dafoe's rich banker on
her client's behalf. She is just an alien in this world of low-life
agents and bureaucrats.

What we end up with is a pretty okay movie with some great photography
and interesting themes that are, however, not told all that
stringently. But if you came to enjoy Hoffman's last performance, you
will get your opportunity to enjoy, even if it isn't his most
outstanding work. It still shows that the man was a genius on screen.

By the way: If you see this with someone from Germany, prepare that
they start giggling when they see "Michael", a government employee
aiding Bachmann: The actor is Herbert Grönemeyer, a well-known and
often ridiculed pop-singer in Germany who very rarely acts in movies.
Germans are primed to laugh at him trying to act (as few remember his
pretty well-done starring role in classic "Das Boot").
