
OK,it's not that part 1 was good,you actually knew it would suck,but
the 2nd really grinds my gears. 

You have in your hands a civil war,the final battle into the heart of
the capital,and you spent 2 hours of your life watching your main
character taking a walk in a war zone. 

And with all that time strolling,you have no character development,for
none of them,just a few moments that the movie is like "Ok,from now
on,that's how things are". 

I watched this for closure,i wish i hadn't.

I didn't expected it to be a great movie,just a good action one,and it
failed.Miserably. For goodness sake,London has fallen had more
character development than a book based quadralogy,LOTR had less
walking..good riddance to the series.
<|_=00=_|>
The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2 is a film without any artistic
integrity. It was purely made to grab as much cash from its audience as
possible. You can sense this in the film which does not have much of a
plot, scenes that are purely filler and the story just crawls because
the book that it is based on has been split into two which means more
padding than a model wearing a wonderbra.

With Panem in chaos Katniss (Jennifer Lawrence) plans to assassinate
President Snow (Donald Sutherland.) Snow meanwhile wishes to spring a
trap to finish off the rebels. Peeta (Josh Hutcherson) is volatile as
he turns his anger towards Katniss. Alma Coin (Julianne Moore) the
leader of the rebels who plans to usurp Snow as President has her own
agenda. You could say she has two sides to the coin.

Some of the action is humdrum and poorly lit and Katniss's use of the
bow and arrow is almost laughable in this film. Given the first film in
this franchise was a decent film, it has been disappointing to see the
decline in quality to the sequels.
<|_=00=_|>
-- this review may contain spoilers --

How can a reviewer say "not the best in the series" and then give it 10
stars? 10 stars is perfection, not as good as perfection is not 10
stars... In my opinion it was far from perfect though not terrible.

I have loved the Hunger Games franchise but this film let me down. For
much of the film it reminded me of Frodo's (boring) journey to destroy
the ring except that Frodo actually does get there in the End. Katniss
sets off to kill the president and spends most of the film trying to
get there but then doesn't, in fact she is beaten by the resistance,
who managed to get through all of those traps that she could not and
still get there quicker. She then wakes up to find the war is over. The
twist at the end is so well signposted that it doesn't take much
inferring leaving the happy ever after.

Special effects and infinite arrow archery skills ultimately don't make
up for the lack of story and obvious plot holes. I cannot fault any of
the actors, they did the best they could with a bad script.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this because I enjoyed the first two. The third was a decline
from the Hunger Games 1 and 2 but so much time invested compelled the
watching Mocking Jay 2. I was hoping for a great ending for such an
anticipated movie and was greatly disappointed.

The plot was almost non existent and just rode on the waves of the
other movies. The story line was disjointed and herky jerky. The
development of the love story was terrible and did not evoke the
emotion displayed in the first two. Very let down...

I did not read the books, but I'm sure that those true fans were
greatly let down. I wish they just took out Hoffman altogether than the
way they pieced him in with 60 seconds of total airtime.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, let's get right to it. This is not good story telling. I need more
lines so, the actors, director, and whatnot can only work with what
they are given. And, in this case, they weren't given very much.

Almost everything in the movie has been done before except better. I
was joking to my wife when I said there will probably be some zombies
or similar types attack them when they were underground, and to my
surprise (because I really was just joking) a horde of underground
"zombie like" creatures appeared and of course started trying to kill
them.

This is what you would call an expensive "chick Flick". The hero is a
girl. The commanders are girls. The only real leader was Snow (Donald
Sutherland), and by the way, I think he did a great job as a villain.

I guess my main complaint is that this is just a bunch of boring,
clich√©d, yawn-producing crud.

Also, I just asked my wife her opinion of the movie, which we just
watched last night, and she said she doesn't remember what it was
about, and she doesn't have Alzheimer's. So, I guess that about sums it
up.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked the first, I loved the second, I thought the extended trailer
was silly (shoot down high-tech planes with a bow, also called
Mockingjay Part 1), but then I was in for an ice cold shower. I haven't
felt like this since listening to Jar Jar Binks.

The first two Hunger Games movies prepare you for an epic battle
between the rebels of District 13 against the Capitol, which could just
as well be the Empire of Star Wars, led by an equally cunning
president/emperor.

However, instead of using all the lore that has been carefully built
up, especially in Mockingjay Part 1, the producers/writer decided to
keep the main cast as far away from action as possible. The heroes
suddenly become actors instead of the warriors they had been in the
previous movies. Everything is fake and nothing they do (or not do) is
supposed to affect the story. On purpose! I have no idea what happened
here. Did the writer die and someone else had to finish it? Did they
outsource the production to a galaxy far, far away from the first two
movies? I simply cannot believe that this was an accident. There has to
be purpose to this letdown and I wish I knew what it is, but either
way, Mockingjay Part 2 is the biggest disappointment since The Phantom
Menace.
<|_=00=_|>
I must admit when I first heard of the Hunger Games movies I had no
idea what all the fuss was about. I'd never heard of the books, so
wasn't that excited about the movies. 

Watched the first one and thought, "yeah, that wasn't too bad". 

Fast forward to Mockingjay Part 1, and I had already heard it was a bit
of a "filler" movie, and not a lot happens. "Fine", I thought. So I
suffered it, thinking part 2 will kick ass. 

Oh, how wrong was I, and so was my wife who, after watching the first
film, read all the books. She warned me that Mockingjay part 2 would be
pretty emotional, and it just wasn't.

I don't know if it was my imagination but, as with other film series
like Harry Potter, it was if the actors were bored of the franchise,
and just not putting their all into it. I ended up not really caring
what happened to any of the characters. The action was flat and a
little dull. And as with part 1, the pace of the movie was deadly slow.
So disappointing. 

As my daughter said after the movie had finished, it seemed like the
slow sections of the movie needed to be sped up, and the fast sections
slowed down. As an example, where Katniss's sister, Primrose gets
killed, it was like, she's there, dead, move on. There was no big deal
made about it, which I understand was quite a big deal in the book. I
might be wrong.

I'm always sorry to bad mouth any movie, because I know how much effort
goes into making them. My philosophy has always been, if a movie
entertains on any level at all, even it it's unintentional, it is a
good movie. IE. I'm not a film critic, I'm a film fan.

But I'm sorry to say, remembering all opinions are objective, but I
found this to be a slow, tedious and wasted opportunity. I'm sad it was
one of Philip Seymour Hoffman's last films. It would have nice to have
ended on a high, no irony intended.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a truly horrific piece of cinematography, I watched the first
film because of all the hype. Hated it. Suffered through the next two
because I wanted to see it through. Hated them. Then came the finale.
Hate myself for wasting 2 hours of my staring into space time. 

I actually created an account on here just to warn people to not watch
this awful, awful film. I'm a Jennifer Lawrence fan, she's funny and
charismatic. In this she is wooden and hard to warm to but
unfortunately still by far the best performance in this piece of utter
garbage. Her boyfriend looks 15 and you are supposed to believe that
he's fathered two children with her. I'm surprised if he knows where to
put it!! 

In summary this is the film equivalent of paying to spend an afternoon
reading labels on the back of shampoo bottles.
<|_=00=_|>
I want 2 hours of my life back! It was tedious, linear, uneventful,
predictable, and dialogues often scrambled. This is not the worst film
I ever saw, but I've seen lots of films, and this episode is perhaps
the 4th worst ever. From top of my head I can name a few more bearable
things. Say, IRS. I mentioned drying paint before. Even hangover can be
more fun. Or toothache. Walking the streets alone, minding my own
business is immensely more fun. To spare myself from future torture,
I'll make sure to check the IMDb comments first, sorting them by the
"hated it" criterion. Why suffer? I just hope my comment will save at
least one person from suffering.
<|_=00=_|>
I considered myself a fan of the Hunger Games films prior to watching
the films, despite Mockingjay part 1 being a fairly obvious cash in. As
a movie divided in two, I never expected a satisfying conclusion from
that film, but I don't feel I got one from this film either.

I'm going to spoil everything for my review, so don't read on if you
haven't seen.

There is a pretty crucial rule in story telling where your heroine must
be relevant to the plot's conclusion. In this movie, Katnis isn't even
conscious for the tedious finale to the rebellion - which was what
Mockingjay was all about.

Supreme leader Snow is defeated rather easily by the rebellion. I guess
the rebels must have made lots of progress in the war effort while we
were following Katnis around the city, but we never saw any of that so
it just seemed a bit random. 

Katnis' plan to defeat Snow, was literally just to walk in to his
house, which was foiled by the fact he had guards at the gate. They
didn't factor that in to their plan? Seriously? Katnis is then knocked
out by a bomb and wakes up to find the war is over, making her
irrelevant to the conclusion of this plot.

Afterwards, another sub plot suddenly takes primary focus. Katnis'
unease with the leader of the rebellion becomes far stronger after she
takes the word of the series' primary antagonist and decides to murder
the leader of the rebellion. The movie doesn't really present a
watertight case for the rebellion leader's guilt over the bombings.
Were the bombs definitely hers? Did she mean to murder civilians? Are
we morally free to kill President Obama since the US forces blew up a
hospital a few months ago? Her idea for a 'symbolic' Hunger Games seems
to be the point where her guilt crystallises in Katnis' mind, but then
Katnis votes for it, so it appears she would rather murder people for
their insane ideas rather than try to talk them down when given the
chance.

Another disappointing aspect to the finale is Katnis' reaction to the
death of her sister, which is significantly delayed. You do see a quite
visceral reaction in the last few scenes of the film, but why did I
have to wait around ten minutes for that as Katnis just went about her
daily life meeting dictators and murdering heads of state? The
franchise begins with Katnis sacrificing herself to save her sister in
the first movie: you would have thought that the death of that sister
would have had a more immediate reaction, given it was the character's
primary motivation for all her actions in film one. It kind of felt
like it was just put on the back burner for a couple of scenes.

Prior to the conclusion the film felt badly paced and meandering, but I
overlooked that due to profit based decision to split the film into two
at the expense of the story. 

I guess I'll have to look back on the Hunger Games franchise as a movie
with one sequel, as I really would prefer not to remember this
conclusion, as it has not done the first two movies justice.
