
This was a complete waste fo time. Here are the main reasons:

1. The performance by the main characters was very poor and artificial.
2. The director did a bad job, as did the editor. 3. The main story is
weak and uninspired. There are clichés all over the place. Dialogue is
poor and boring. The whole story is completely dubious and it is hard
to take the movie seriously. 4. Historically speaking, the film
sacrifices the real events that occurred for the sake of extra special
effects. The fact that two cities were destroyed before anything got to
Pompeii is ignored completely. The 'fire rain' on Pompeii also never
happened, as did the tsunami. It simply made no sense to add everything
but the kitchen sink into this movie. 'The Gladiator' was fictional,
but it never claimed to be anything else. This film claims to be based
on real events, when it clearly isn't in the most important aspects of
what happened that day. In Pompeii, people died because they inhaled
the smoke, not because fire rained down on them or tsunamis washed them
away. The arena (stadium) was never destroyed by the earhquake and it
still stands in Pompeii to this day. Dubious to the extreme.

Overall very very poor.
<|_=00=_|>
You can take this movie from two different sides.

As somebody who is very much interested in history and geography and
has studied both for many years, this movie is obviously full of
mistakes and wrong stereotypes. It is almost as inaccurate as the
"Spartacus" series. And this is never an original movie. We have all
watched movies with very similar story lines about the evil Romans who
want to control everything, the poor gladiators who stand up against
them and the forbidden love between a rich young woman and a foreign
slave. I can understand why many people are rating this film down. If
you really want to watch a sophisticated movie about that time, go for
the classic "Ben- Hur".

What I think is strange is that all these stereotypes were highly
predictable from the trailers only. I am asking myself why people even
went to watch this movie if they were going to hate it for the reasons
mentioned above. Some people just want to bash a movie and seem to have
a very sad life if they waste their time watching movie they dislike so
much.

I went to watch the movie for something different. I wanted to watch a
colourful movie with impressive sets and costumes and stunning 3D
effects of an exploding volcano. I was eager to watch a fast pace flick
with a lot of fighting scenes, some tension here and there and maybe a
few love scenes with beautiful actresses. And I exactly got that. 

In addition to this, the acting was just good enough and included a few
interesting characters. I really liked Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje and
Jessica Lucas in this film even though they played stereotypical
characters and could have had more screening time. If you are going to
watch this movie for Carrie-Anne Moss or Kiefer Sutherland, please do
not. They have been much better in other movies in the past.

In the end, it all depends on you. If you want to watch an original and
profound movie and learn something about the Roman Empire, just forget
it. If you want to watch a effect ridden action adventure, you are
going to like this. It is not the movie of the year but I surely had a
great time watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie Pompeii was obviously thought-up and directed around the 3D
effects. The plot, acting, and script must have all been after-thoughts
to the 3D fireballs shooting off the screen, 3D ashes floating in front
of your eyes, and the 3D objects being hurled around by tidal waves.

It was watchable, but don't be expecting a fabulous plot that you
haven't seen dozens of times in other better movies. The bad writing
had most of the actors come off sounding like lifeless wooden statues
that would say and do very unbelievable things just to keep the story
going. Everything was very predictable. So predictable, in fact, there
were a couple of moments I could have sworn I did see it before!

This was a good example why I typically do no like 3D movies. Having
some good 3D effects is not a valid excuse for making a bad movie!!
This definitely could have been much better!
<|_=00=_|>
What a piece of crap wannabe blockbuster . If it was not by the fact I
got free tickets for the premiere, I would be p***ed off to waste my
money in vain. Well, my time was wasted anyway...

The plot is the epitome of stupidity: shallow characters and a
predictable story made me wonder what the director was thinking. The
history of Pompeii and its fate was completely ignored (I have visited
Pompeii myself) - the tsunami scene was only one of the non sense
historical goofs. The movie end is absolutely stupid and I was relieved
it finally ended. 

If you want to waste your time, this is the perfect opportunity.
<|_=00=_|>
Princess Bride, but played straight, with no self-awareness or humour.
"My name is Milo. You killed my father. Prepare to die!".

Avoid. The fight scenes are entertaining, but so prolonged that one is
taken out of the movie to think "Yeah, but there's no way he'd be able
to *keep* fighting for this long".

The whole audience (in Paris) laughed at the final utterly ridiculous
frames. This was meant to be poignant/heartbreaking - like Titanic. The
audience by then just wanted it to be over.

There are a few wooden performances, but I suspect it's hard not to be
with this script and direction. Even so, Sutherland should be ashamed
of his showing in this. He must just have been counting his pay the
whole time.

Also: 'Milo' the Celt ?? How about using Celtic name?
<|_=00=_|>
It's pretty much impossible to say that "Pompeii" is a flawless film.
It's love story is clichéd and and its lighting at times leaves much to
be desired. On the other hand, I believe the term "guilty pleasure"
fits perfectly here, as I certainly enjoyed this movie enough to
recommend it. 

"Pompeii" tells the story of the legendary natural disaster that
covered the Italian city of Pompeii and its residents in ashes,
preserving their bodies for eternity. Like "Titanic," "Pompeii" mixes
in a star-crossed lovers story into the disaster genre. Following the
rich- girl-loves-poor-boy trope, a wealthy woman named Cassia (played
by Emily Browning of "Sucker Punch") falls in love with an enslaved
gladiator named Milo (played by Kit Harrington of "Game of Thrones").
When Pompeii's volcano erupts, it is up to Milo to save Cassia from
being left to die in the eruption (there is more to the story but I
don't want to give anything away).

Admittedly, the love story is by far less convincing than the one in
Titanic. The two leads Cassia and Milo spend a bare minimum of time
getting to know each other and their relationship lacks development.
However, in a disaster movie that focuses more on providing audience-
pleasing thrills, this is much less of a problem than it could have
been.

On the contrary, Milo's relationship with a fellow slave named Atticus
(played by Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje of "Thor: The Dark World") is
surprisingly well developed throughout the film. In the first act, Milo
learns that he must face Atticus, a man who has been promised freedom
after one more battle. Several scenes of dialogue in a prison cell and
action in the arena they are forced to fight in give the audience a
good feel for who these characters are and give a good enough reason to
root for them. Considering that this is a disaster movie made by Paul
W.S. Anderson, both characters have a substantial amount of substance
to them, and the actors give good enough performances to make their
friendship believable. 

On the subject of Mr. Anderson, I have never really been a fan of his
work. "The Three Musketeers" was mediocre at best and his "Resident
Evil" movies are absolutely dreadful. Here he seems to have improved
his ability to tell a story, though there are a few flaws here and
there that carry over from his other works. Much like "Alien vs.
Predator," Anderson struggles to properly light a few nighttime scenes,
casting what could have been a great looking shot into 50% blackness.
In addition, his editing can occasionally be choppy, but compared to
something like "I, Frankenstein," it's nowhere near as jarring. 

To his credit, which I believe is often overlooked, Mr. Anderson
certainly knows how to stage and take advantage of an action setpiece.
One scene involving gladiators fighting soldiers chained to a spiked
pillar made full use of its environment, and will likely have audiences
entertained. Something else worth nothing are the special effects; they
are very well done and it is clear that the VFX team put a lot of
effort into bringing the legendary eruption of Mt. Vesuvias to the big
screen. What's even better is the 3D; lately 3D has been sorely
mediocre in Hollywood films, but in this case it is very effective.
From volcanic ashes to falling beams of wood, "Pompeii" succeeds in
taking full advantage of the 3D technology with stunning results. 

The last act of the film is among one of the most thrilling disaster
scenes I have ever scene in recent years. Fans of disaster movies will
likely be pleased by all of the mindless carnage and destruction, and
like "2012," the visual grandeur is seat-grippingly epic.

"Pompeii" is nowhere near a high-quality film, nor is it free from
typical Hollywood clichés. However, this was not a film that left me
feeling insulted or just jaded. Rather, this was actually a memorable
disaster/action period piece that I could easily recommend taking some
friends to see. The experience alone is pretty damn cool.
<|_=00=_|>
Paul W.S. Anderson has never been a director of story or character;
instead, as he had demonstrated with five chapters of the 'Resident
Evil' franchise, it's all about giving his audience the most bang for
their buck with pure action spectacle. And just as he did with zombies
previously, Anderson spares nothing in recreating the destruction of
the ancient Italian city laid to waste by the eruption of Mount
Vesuvius in A.D. 72, so rest assured that it does deliver genuine
spectacle as it promises.

The only catch? The volcano only erupts an hour into the movie, which
also means that Anderson has to grapple with his twin Achilles' heels
of story and character for that same duration. We won't kid you - the
wait till fire and ash rains down from the legendary mountain is quite
literally a slog. The fault isn't entirely Anderson's; though the
leaden direction is to blame for the cliché-ridden melodrama, it is the
screenwriters Michael Robert Johnson (Sherlock Holmes), Janet Scott
Batchler and Lee Batchler (Batman Forever) who are responsible for the
utterly pedestrian script and some truly cringe-worthy dialogue.

What they have done essentially is to take a gladiator drama and throw
in a 'rich girl/ poor boy' romance in the vein of 'Titanic' as a
pretext for the inevitable eruption, with the former relatively more
fleshed out than the latter. To set the stage, we see a young Celtic
boy watching his parents being murdered by the ruthless Corvus (Kiefer
Sutherland) and his top soldier Proculus (Sasha Roiz), both Roman
guards whom you know the same older boy will come face to face with
later on. Fast forward to seventeen years later and the boy named Milo
has developed into a strapping gladiator known as 'The Celt', picked
out amidst a grubby Londinium arena for the big league in Pompeii.

Milo's meet-cute with his romantic interest Cassia (Emily Browning)
happens en route to Pompeii, when the latter's carriage becomes stuck
in the mud and causes one of her horses to suffer a severe fall. In an
act of kindness, Milo kills the horse with his bare hands to put him
out of its misery, and immediately earns Cassia's fondness. Back in
Pompeii, Cassia's father Severus (Jared Harris) and mother (Carrie
Anne-Moss) play host to Corvus and his Roman entourage, whose favour
they depend on to fund their plan to revitalise the city by building
aqueducts. Turns out however that Corvus is only doing so to force
Cassia's hand in marriage, whom he unsuccessfully courted while the
latter was still back in Rome.

In the meantime, Milo forges an acquaintance with Atticus (Adewale
Akinnuoye-Agbaje), one of the fiercest fighters who is according to the
law just one fight away from earning his freedom. Needless to say,
Atticus soon finds that his masters have no intention of honouring the
law, and instead of being opponents, Milo and Atticus team up to rebel
against their captors. All this culminates in a nicely shot showdown in
the town's coliseum, where Milo and Atticus take on an entire Roman
battalion in order to simulate Corvus' invasion of the Celtic homeland.

From that time on, Anderson's best instincts as a filmmaker take over,
injecting the moribund proceedings with a much-needed shot of life that
immediately jolts his viewer out of his seat. The sight of Vesuvius
starting to boil over is a truly humbling one, even more so when it
starts to rain fire, rock and lava down on the hapless citizens of
Pompeii, not excluding our protagonists. Anderson skilfully cuts
between wide shots offering birds-eye views of the scale of the
devastation and close-ups of the disaster from the point of view of its
victims, and it is to his credit - as well as that of his
cinematographer Glen MacPherson and VFX supervisor Dennis Berardi -
that we are simply and surely transfixed.

Lest you think it's all about the volcano, well the calamity turns out
to be much more multi-faceted. Besides watching out for fire and rock
from above, those looking for a way out of Pompeii are also either
swallowed into the ground as the earth underneath them collapses or are
swept away by an enormous tsunami precipitated by the tectonic forces
causing the same eruption. As if that weren't enough, our star-crossed
lovers also have to contend with Corvus' relentless pursuit, while
Atticus proves a more than worthy ally against Proculus. Anderson
channels his best inner Roland Emmerich to ensure that his disaster
movie never has a boring moment once nature's tragedy strikes, and
let's just say the last 45 mins is tense and exciting stuff.

Even so, Anderson threatens to be undone by a perennially weak link in
his movie, and that is the quality of the acting. 'Game of Thrones'
star Kit Harrington is no less wooden than he was in the HBO
miniseries, and there is almost zero chemistry between him and 'Sucker
Punch' actress Emily Browning. Though '24' star Kiefer Sutherland looks
out of place in a sword and scandal epic like this, he proves more
entertaining than our leads in a borderline campy manner. The best of
the lot is without a doubt Adewale, who brings unexpected dignity and
gravitas to his role in a movie that generally demands much less from
its performers.

But really, one should not expect differently from 'Pompeii', which as
we said at the beginning is no more than an opportunity for Anderson to
leverage on historical events to deliver an action-filled disaster
movie packed with visual spectacle. As long as you can get past that
first hour, the prolonged cataclysmic climax will grip, astound and awe
you - and since this is meant to be a disaster movie first and an
action- romance second, the priorities are just right.
<|_=00=_|>
How to waste a 100 million dollar budget:

1. Ignore history completely because you're sure your audience is
stupid and won't notice. 2. Make sure all the gladiators look like
steroid refugees from a West Hollywood gym. Amp up the homo-eroticism
with lots of oiled pectorals and a weird "bromance" between not only
two gladiators but the evil Roman senator and his faithful-unto-death
boyfriend / bodyguard. 3. Create a paper-thin romance between a slave
and a noble lady that's laughably unconvincing because they have about
twenty lines of dialog between them. 4. Give the slave killer abs and
the ability to whisper sweet nothings to horses so that they'll calm
down while a volcano explodes. 5. Include every freaking cliché from
every disaster movie ever made. Make sure the noble black slave runs
back to save that child who fell down and is being trampled. 7. Throw
giant hot rocks at the audience via 3D. 8. Include a tidal wave! 9.
Make the audience wonder where all the Pompeiians went during the last
twenty minutes of the movie. Suddenly they all vanish. 10. Give Kiefer
Sutherland lots of close-ups of his false teeth. 11. Burn up everyone
as prettily as possible. 12. Run away from lawsuits and copyright
infringement because your screenwriters ripped off "Gladiator" and
"Titanic".

Luckily, Vesuvius only destroyed Pompeii once, so there can't be a
sequel...but don't count on it. Hollywood is probably doing
post-production on "Return to Pompeii" right now.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first review at IMDb, and I cannot withstand from warning
the people reading the reviews: this movie is very bad. If I could give
a zero, I'd do that. I've read so many reviews that really helped me a
lot to choose the movie I'd like to watch. Pompeii (2014) is one of a
few movies I didn't inspect properly before watching. And that was a
big mistake. This movie has no sense, no story, actions are amateurish,
emotions are artificial, dialogues are brainless. We laughed a lot
during the movie on how stupid many scenes and dialogues could be. Paul
Anderson should really retire. I read his books and I liked them, but
as a movie director, I'm sorry it's probably not for him. After two
hours watching this movie and after the last sequence of scenes, I
really wonder what all that was about? Even if considering a love
genre, this movie doesn't belong to it either. Love between the main
characters was very funny and superficial. Please, don't waste your
time on this movie. It's completely worthless.

P.S. By the way, the volcano eruption was so funny. Most of the time it
shoot fire bombs instead of producing lava. And the shoots were really
bully. I think Paul Anderson took this from Starship Troopers where the
huge alien insects shoot the similar bombs in space.
<|_=00=_|>
"Pompeii" is cheesy and okay. Just okay. The special effects are good
enough, and the cast is very good, so it could have been a much better
film than it is. Ooooh well. 

Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje stood out for me as Atticus a noble,
undefeated gladiator. I couldn't help but think that this guy should be
a bigger star, and that perhaps his difficult name stood in his way.
Kit Harington is charismatic and believable as Milo, a sensitive,
horse- loving Celt who is forced to fight as a gladiator. He charms
Cassia, a rich Roman girl (Emily Browning) and their love is
believable. Kiefer Sutherland is an evil Roman Senator. Sutherland
camps it up, doing a Boris Karloff imitation throughout the film. Not
sure why he picked Karloff; perhaps just to see if anyone would notice.
Sasha Roiz, who is from Israel, has a face, head and hair right off of
a Roman mosaic, and he's good as yet another sadistic Roman officer,
Sutherland's right-hand man. 

This movie is obviously thrown together with little thought or heart,
and it's a shame that more was not done with it. There's a scene where
Milo and Cassia escape on horseback. That scene could have been classic
 you've got a handsome slave who faces nothing but death in the arena,
a beautiful maiden being menaced by a predatory Roman senator, and a
nighttime escape on a gorgeous white horse: so much to work with!
Instead their escape is just plopped on screen with no artistry at all.
You're watching a rehearsal, not a real movie. 

Special effects include aerial views of ancient Pompeii, earthquakes,
cracking villas, sinkholes, volcanic eruption, and a tsunami. These are
all okay, but I bet you could see equally good footage, if not better,
on televised nature documentaries. There is lots of gladiatorial
combat. I'm not qualified to judge these scenes. I usually squint my
eyes and grimace throughout them and I have no idea how accurate they
are. Somehow the consistency with which Milo and Atticus are able to
defeat many more, and better armored opponents didn't convince me. 

While watching this movie I couldn't help but reflect on Cecil-B-
Demille-style sword and sandal movies from the fifties and early
sixties. Those movies had special effects, but they also focused on
gripping storytelling, larger than life stars like Charlton Heston, Yul
Brynner, and Richard Burton, and they had some larger point. Even
without the CGI, those movies were often more satisfying than more
recent films who sink everything in special effects and ignore more old
fashioned storytelling craft.
