
Danny Boyle continues on his campaign to never repeat genres by giving
us a stunning psychological thriller that crosses so many boundaries
I'm not sure I'm entirely comfortable even using the word thriller -
the only thing for certain is that it is definitely psychological.
Borrowing elements of film noir this exhilarating ride is just short of
greatness. Just as you could imagine from the title; Trance is a
visual, aural and intellectual dream-like experience. 

Trance stars James McAvoy as Simon, an auctioneer who gets mixed up
with the wrong group of thieves. Simon's auction house is selling a
painting £27 million (Roughly $41 million) when a thief by the name of
Franck (Vincent Cassel) breaks in and attempts to steal it. Before
Franck can do so he and his crew notice the painting has gone missing
and Simon is the only person that knows where it is. Unfortunately for
Franck, Simon suffers a serious blow to the head during all the chaos
and cannot remember where it is. After trying to divulge the location
from him proves unsuccessful they turn to a hypnotist (Rosario Dawson)
who can unbury any memory and that's where the audience joins in this
psychological trip to find the painting. This film will leave you as
hypnotized as any member of the cast was I assure you.

Dawson and McAvoy deliver excellent performances; they handle their
roles with such control that every little subtle facial movement
reveals more than it should, especially within Dawson's character.
Vincent Cassel alongside them brings the story to full force and
together with Danny Boyle they all bring Joe Aherne's gracefully
twitchy screenplay to life.

Boyle interestingly enough stuck to his 18A rating not willing to
dilute his story so he could hit a broader audience; the man isn't
afraid to have graphic imagery in his film like other directors who
have attempted the genre in a similar way (i.e. Chris Nolan,
Inception). The cinematography is - as always with Boyle  beautiful
and in fact rather charming in its own sense. He handles the camera
with such precision it's impossible to question his cinematic choices.
The coolest aspect of the film being his declaration of war on the
senses with a chaotic soundtrack and fast paced editing.

The film however is not without flaws. The film so heavily relies on
tricking the audience that it's actually very easy to get lost and
unfortunately lose interest in the film. While I didn't particularly
feel this way I can see why others would have. While I've always been
fascinated by the idea of an unreliable narrator to tell your story,
when you're switching between three perspectives trying to decide which
one is reliable it can sometimes take too much focus away from your
plot. 

Besides that Trance is an intellectual delight with enough twists and
turns to keep the majority of people interested. Its performances,
style and tremendous attention to detail is enough make a very balanced
film. If you love movies similar to Memento this is definitely
something to check out.

7.5/10

Be sure to check out my review site: thejoshlreviews.com, and my video
review of this film here http://youtu.be/xpCWBi5N6ew
<|_=00=_|>
2012 was the year that Danny Boyle became a national hero for many in
his domestic Britain after masterminding a stunning opening ceremony of
the Olympics. Seemingly able to satisfy even the sternest of sceptics
with a rabid display of flair and flamboyance, he became elevated to a
hallowed level of reverence. In the weeks that followed, he seemed to
acquire an approval rating that most politicians would have gawped at,
green eyed with envy. He stands tall as an icon of the every man, with
an unaffected regional accent and amiable demeanour, with a dose of
easy going charm. Beneath this genial appearance is a voracious talent
that is testament to many years of hard work alongside any natural
ingenuity. Lauded with plaudits and success, it would appear he can do
no wrong. Or can he?

Returning to his day job, Boyle re-enters the film arena with Trance, a
London-based psychological thriller that rushes around with about as
much calm and patience as an ADHD sufferer. He has said that he was
finishing this project whilst he was working on the Olympic opening
ceremony, and that this should be viewed as its 'dark, evil cousin'.

Starring Vincent Cassel, James McAvoy and Rosario Dawson, Trance
undertakes a card shuffling roll call of sympathy and understanding.
Early on, McAvoy's Simon misplaces a valuable painting. Under the
persuasive encouragement of Cassel's band of criminals, he ends up
seeking the counsel and help of hypnotist, Elizabeth (Dawson), to
retrace his steps. Although the backdrop for the film is that of a
common theme; a heist, it is merely window dressing for what is an
indeed dark and, heck, schizophrenic joyride into the mind.

With a nodded cap to the disorientating freewheeling narrative of
Nolan's Memento, this film glides along a bumpy path. It takes pleasure
in scrutinising the tricks and tics of memory. Boyle plays chess with
the players and moves them around with the devilish glee of a
ringmaster induced with the cruel egomaniacal urge of a cartoon
villain. You can almost hear the grind of his hands rubbing together as
he plots each skittish twist and turn. This is aided, helpfully, by Joe
Aherne's source material and the screenplay's joyfully itchy nature.
The film also has echoes of Inception. But with added sex.

Daring to make this an adult film and not dilute it in order to make it
accessible for a wider and broader audience, he does not eschew from
graphic and explicit depictions. He performs with the cinematic frisson
of a British Tarantino, but without Quentin's fondness for a baggy
screenplay. Having said that, and although such comparisons make for
neat phrases for critics to write, Danny Boyle is very much his own
man. His films are all underpinned by his stylistic stamps of
authorship. In fact, as it tends to be a defining quality of all of
Boyle's films, this one does not disappoint in its assault on the
senses. The thumping soundtrack plays havoc on the ears and the fast
cuts fix into the eyes with the precision of a laser beam.

Not everything is welcomed wholeheartedly and with open arms, however.
As much as the virtues of Trance are easy to spot and identify, it is
also somewhat flawed. So much emphasis seems to be placed on tripping
the audience (in every possible sense) that the film renders itself a
little distant to the sense of touch. The characters are slippery and
the consequence of such skillful toying with the assumed integrity (or
lack thereof) of the protagonists leads inevitably to an arms space
from empathy.

In addition to this, the relentlessly florid displays of directorial
showmanship makes the pacing a little too one-sided. So persistent is
the pace that the runtime feels a little longer than the 101 minutes
that it forms and you may well emerge exhausted as the lights come up.
Maybe the frenetic nature of Trance is a deliberate counterpoint to the
relative stasis of 127 Hours. As it stands, this film zips along at a
speed that would make even Usain Bolt baulk and cower with fear.

Any quibbles mentioned do not deviate the bottom line verdict. This
film is, on balance, a mighty success. It may not be as charming and
lovable as the Oscar garnering Slumdog Millionaire, but it is a
relentlessly entertaining thrill ride. It stands as an hour and forty
minutes at a cinematic equivalent of the best theme park you could
name. Hold on tight and buckle in.
<|_=00=_|>
I was quite looking forward to Trance; I had heard a critic say that it
was a real effort by Danny Boyle to get out from under the "national
treasure" status he had obtained by how well he opened the Olympics in
2012 and that as a result Trance was very much against that image. He
was correct because this is a very graphic film in many ways but before
that we get to the plot. The plot is simple  an art robbery goes wrong
for some reason, with the painting lost when the inside man hides it
but forgets where he hid it due to damage inflicted during the robbery.
The gang go to a hypnotherapist to try to get it out of him and from
here it only gets messy.

I can see what the plot was trying to do because it is constantly
twisting and turning as minds are messed with; actions may or may not
be programmed; events may or may not be happening and those who appear
in control may or may not actually be in control and, even if they are
(or aren't), they soon won't be (or will be) because everything will
change in a minute. I guess the aim is that the film was aiming for a
narrative similar to that of Inception or Usual Suspects, where the
story the audience is being told may not be the real story at all. At
the end of both these films the effect is to be impressed by how well
it did it and I'm sure for many like myself there was the desire to
watch it again to be able to see the film in the new context you have.
With Trance I did not have this feeling, when things did fall into
place I only felt that it was such a messy pile that it had fallen into
and I had not enjoyed or been engaged in the manner in which it got
there or indeed where it got me at all. You can sense it wants to be
smarter and more thrilling that it is, but where Usual Suspects is
slick and stylish on its journey, this really just bumbles and blasts
it way to the finish hoping it can carry you with it by force alone.

This force comes in the style of Boyle's direction and mostly it is
good from this point of view  it is a good looking film but it does
really feel like he is forcing the excess for the sake of it rather
than it being part of the film. So the very extreme scenes of gore felt
like the complexity of the story  there for the sake of being there.
Of course this is not to say that I didn't appreciate the extreme
(almost "no holds barred") nudity from Rosario Dawson, but again even
for the teenage boy in my head, it felt forced and unnatural (the use
of her nude  not her as a nude). The cast go along with it the best
they can. McAvoy is good while Cassel always has a mean presence.
Support cast is decent but I am really not sure about Dawson. It is not
that she herself is not good, it is just that the film asks too much of
her character and it is clear that Dawson doesn't always know who she
is be  in any one scene she can be what is required, but in terms of
making it one whole character or making links between these scenes, she
cannot do it. I do not think the fault is all her  I guess the
relationship with Boyle didn't help with this aspect, but for sure her
performance seems unsure and a bit erratic.

Trance will try to bluster and bully you into thinking you're watching
something really smart and well structured, but this is not the case.
The film is confusing for the sake of it, excessive for the sake of it
and ultimately tries to ride this to a satisfying conclusion but in the
end you will not be left with feeling that you immediately want to see
it again but rather the lingering doubt as to whether you should have
bothered in the first place.
<|_=00=_|>
From directing Bollywood, Sci-fi and Zombie flicks, to action thrillers
to the London 2012 Olympics, Danny Boyle is the most versatile director
in the industry. Currently at the top of his game, Boyle directed
Trance parallel to the Olympics on the same shooting schedule in the
same weeks (literally!). In interviews he said relative to the Olympics
that Trance is the 'dark cousin of the Olympics'. Boyle brings us a
character-based, twisty thriller, just like the ones from the 1990's
that launched his career.

Trance is introduced with a Scorsese sprint-heist, where Simon (James
McAvoy) is an inside man on stealing a £27,000,000 Goya painting from
his job at an auction. When Simon double crosses his partner Franck
(Vincent Cassell) he suffers a strike to the head, leaving him with
amnesia. In order to find out where he hide the painting he must take
hypnosis sessions to revive his memory. But as lines blur and hypnotic
suggestion takes over, the situation gets darkly complex.

Keeping you indulged for its entire one-hundred and seventeen minutes
running time the film is imperatively based on narrative. Forget CGI
and the rest. To make a good film use the three things that Hitchcock
says is essential in film-making, 'the script, the script and the
script'. Boyle does this wondrously.

While Boyle assembled his old gang behind the camera, in front of it,
they're all new faces for the film-maker, and they all rise to the
occasion. Vincent Cassel at first seems to have the least interesting
part of the film. The same sort of character he has played in the Ocean
movies. Meanwhile other cast members such as James McAvoy and Rosie
Dawson give the best performances of their careers. McAvoy in fact has
never been so good. Appearing in two films on this months release (also
Welcome To The Punch). He breaks his character type and shows his
malevolence.

The film is a trippy heist thriller. Think Fight Club, Inception,
Memento and The Sixth Sense and the style of story and endings. Trance
is no exception. Even as we left the cinema other audience members
where throwing around the Nolan word. But this film does seem like it
has earnt the comparison. Compiled with complex script flips and twists
the film is all solved in the final act, much like Nolan's films.

Having earnt its deserved rating of 15 the violence and excessive
swearing are throughout. And all of the three of the main cast are seen
at one point of the film both naked and abused. Interesting, eh? This
is one film that should not be missed. Released tomorrow (March 26th
2013) this film is highly recommended.

Read this review and many more at our website - Gone With The Movies

http://gonewiththemovies.com/reviews/trance-review.php#.UWhc_LU3uSo
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a fan of every other Danny Boyle movie up until last night,
when I saw Trance. In its way it is riveting. The pace is unrelenting,
and the soundtrack does its job admirably, creating a tense atmosphere
and general air of sexiness. The acting for the most part was skilled,
but I'm sorry to say James McAvoy (whom I have loved in numerous other
movies) didn't play this particular character on the right note.

Briefly, the plot involves (Note: POSSIBLE SPOILERS) a priceless Goya
painting that goes missing during a botched heist at an auction. James
McAvoy plays Simon, an employee of the auction house, and he seemingly
tries to get the painting to safety, out of the thieves' hands. In the
process, the main thief, Franck (played by Vincent Cassel), hits Simon
on the head, causing serious injury, and steals the bag containing the
painting. But Franck then discovers that the painting is not in the
bag, and when Simon finally recovers from his injuries, he has amnesia
and cannot remember where he hid the painting. SPOILER: It becomes
clear he was working in cahoots with the thieves, and he goes to see a
hypnotherapist in the hope that the therapy will jog his memory. It
becomes clear very early on from that point that there is more to the
therapist, Elizabeth (Rosario Dawson), than is immediately apparent.
Insidious games are afoot.

Where this film lost me is in the wild inconsistency of the character
Simon. Yes, because of his memory loss he is an unreliable narrator.
What was clear to me is that here is a character whose torment is
deeply buried, but is brought back to the surface by a blow to the
head. In my opinion, James McAvoy treated it too lightly. He has shown
intensity in other roles, but it seemed to me that he didn't bring that
intensity to bear here. The character is supposed to be deeply
confused, but it comes off as mere puzzlement instead. But getting back
to unreliability, even in the flashbacks, it was clear to me that the
impact of hypnotherapy on the character's actions was applied only when
it served to further the plot. If you were following a logical path,
(SPOILER) hypnotherapy could've solved all of Simon's (not to mention
Elizabeth's) dilemmas. I mean, if you can control someone via
hypnotherapy, how far does that control extend? The film blatantly
skips over this, leaving a gaping plot hole. In the latter half, the
film starts to descend into absurdity...without getting too spoilery,
all I'll say is: shaving scene. After the movie was over, just thinking
back on this scene made me hoot with laughter. Another note: Vincent
Cassel had a thankless role in Franck. Here is an actor who can really
dig his teeth into complex characters, and Franck is merely a plot
device. Cassel is wasted in this role.

This film also features what is a particular pet peeve of mine, which I
realize is entirely subjective: all of the main characters are more or
less amoral. A movie without a moral center is a rudderless one for me.
You could argue that (SPOILER) Elizabeth's motives have a moral origin,
but her subsequent actions negate this for me. However, it could be in
keeping with an early observation put forward in this film about greed
-- maybe this film is just an exercise in a portrayal of our capacity
for greed (and our supposed willingness to excuse ourselves our sins)
and that is all. In the end, however, it all rang hollow for me.
<|_=00=_|>
There's always space on a film company's schedule for a wacky post-
modern philosophical thriller designed as critic bait and full of
kooky, unusual ideas. Trance is, in parts, that kind of film: uncommon,
interesting, and to its credit, inspired, but it fails to live up to
the hype. 

The ultimate sin is to be boring, and Trance is long overdue for a
confession. The first act is a capable, fun, and interesting set-up,
let down by a plodding middle that desperately clings to the flimsy
premise of the story and forgets to throw in any of that secret herb
called suspense that makes a thriller successful. There is no action.
There are no sub plots. Just a long continuation of hypnosis scenes,
one after the other, and the way I see it, they're just padding for the
mucky middle.

You could easily cut out all the irrelevant hypnosis scenes and cram
this movie into a 45 minute TV episode. There's so much filler it's
insulting. If you're going to make a thriller, you could at least give
the audience what they want, ie thrills. 

Besides the poor screen writing, the antagonists of the film are just
tough guy caricatures. I can't even remember their names. The French
bloke is given lots of screen time but he is just uninteresting and
there is too much focus on him. I started to feel like McAvoy's
character was now in a supporting role in the second and third act. The
focus turns mostly on the psychiatrist and Frenchie, and McAvoy just
appears for a hypnosis scene now and then. The director has chosen to
cut his scenes haphazardly and the result is sometimes confusing -
there were some scenes where I couldn't tell what was a flashback/dream
and what was actually happening. 

I gave up around the 1 hour mark. I found a good quality cam online and
I am very glad I didn't pay to watch this. The only good part for me
was that Moby song, and I was constantly checking facebook because
Trance couldn't hold my interest at all.
<|_=00=_|>
James Mcavoy is back on form after the dismal Welcome To The Punch. He
is Simon who works for a fine art auction house, where one of his
duties is to whisk away to a deep vault the most valuable artwork in
the event of any attempted robbery. Of course their is a robbery,
masterminded by Franck played by Vincent Cassels, the only problem is
he has stolen a picture frame but no canvas. Simon is hit on the head
during the robbery causing amnesia and cannot remember what happened to
the canvas. Franck isn't too chuffed about this so employs Elizabeth -
Rosario Dawson a hypnotist to delve into Simon's mind to find where he
may have secreted the artwork. 

For at least the first half I was gripped by the plot and characters
plus Boyles camera work is spot on as always. I did however feel
completely puzzled at one point when the plot seemed to zig-zag a bit
too much and I began to wonder whether I had lost concentration. I
wasn't being dim however because at this point one of the characters
explains (in flashback) what's going on. 

Although an adequate enough watch this was for me a below par Boyle
movie. But I suppose with a back catalogue including two of my top ten
films he can be excused for not 'hitting a coconut every time'. Overall
I was not disappointed to have caught the bus to view this and neither
should you be. If you are a Boyle fan just lower your expectations a
little.
<|_=00=_|>
During an armed robbery at an art gallery Simon Masterson in knocked
unconscious and suffers from amnesia where a £25 million painting is
stolen . As it transpires Simon was the inside man on the job and he's
forgotten where he's stashed the painting and the gang aren't in any
mood to let Simon's amnesia foil their criminal dividends . Simon
undergoes hypnosis with a beautiful female therapist in order to regain
his memory knowing if he fails the art thieves he's involved with will
have no further use of him 

I had high hopes for TRANCE as soon as it was announced . Danny Boyle
stole the show at the Olympics with his opening and closing ceremonies
the screenplay is written Joe Ahearne who was the main director of the
all too short era of Christopher Eccleston's DOCTOR WHO and like Boyle
can work visual miracles on a limited budget which leaves me puzzled
why Boyle and Ahearne haven't relocated to Hollywood but I very much
appreciate both film makers have stayed in Britain and are involved in
British film making . That said when ever I look forward to a Boyle
movie I'm always left with after I've seen it with a slight feeling of
disappointment and wonder if his undisputed masterwork is around the
corner 

TRANCE get off to a great opening and is similar to his earlier work in
travelling through the metaphysical psyche of a character very much
like the audience see in to the mind of Renton in TRAINSPOTTING . The
opening sequences of the movie as the language of cinema are used to a
breathtaking effect as Simon breaks down the fourth figurative wall of
cinema . The whole look of the movie is hypnotic as a combination of
cinematography , editing and the in your face blasting soundtrack grips
you harder than one of the infected from 28 DAYS LATER 

The much voiced criticism of Danny Boyle is that he can't sustain the
second half of a movie . With the exception of 28 DAYS LATER and
SUNSHINE it's not something I've really noticed and when I have noticed
it it's obviously been the fault of screenwriter Alex Garland rather
than Boyle and the director manages to keep up the visual assault on
the audience but the more the film continues the more spanners are
thrown in the works and these are down to Ahearne and fellow writer
John Hodge 

This movie belongs in the sub-genre with the likes of TOTAL RECALL ,
THE MATRIX , MEMENTO and INCEPTION that use the theme of altered
reality to tell a story . Several times you think the narrative plot
turns are cheating the intrigued compelled audience but then you have a
character explaining the twist and the audience gasp that they're not
victims of contrivance or cheating . However the more the story
continues the more and more you realise the characters are spouting the
mechanics of the plot which is a mistake . Add to this by the final
third the characters are still spouting exposition but by then you're
relatively lost as to what's happening , only to have the protagonist
behind the set up once again go in to a long monologue what their
agenda has been . On top of that none of the characters are likable in
any way and when the least hateful character in a film is played by
Vincent Cassel something has gone wrong somewhere 

In summary TRANCE lives up to the old cliché that " If a film is good
it's down to the director and when it's bad it's down to the screenplay
" and this is a movie that lives up to that well worn adage . Certainly
it's enjoyable and even someone like myself who is against petite
bourgeois nationalism feels a surge of jingoistic patriotic pride when
a film stamped with Made In Britain tries to be a mainstream success .
Unfortunately one suspects this won't be the international success
SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE was due to it being far too clever for it's own
good
<|_=00=_|>
Trance is an extremely convoluted film by director Danny Boyle, not
necessarily because of the narrative structure but how the film is
stylistically pronounced. There are audio-visual red herrings used to
mask over the absurdity of a plot that switches from a heist movie to
an internal psychodrama. However, once you overcome the deliberate
sensory overload, the story and characters don't make enough sense to
hold any emotional investment. Despite Boyle's experience and imprint
as a deeply stylised filmmaker, Trance is a disappointing example of
technique in search of effect. 

The film starts off with humour and an energetic heist, but the story
and the character motivations are extremely convoluted, buried deep
beneath the (electronic) sound and fury. Simon (James McAvoy) is an
auctioneer (or is he?) who describes the changing methods of stealing
art over the years. It turns out that he is actually part of a job
himself and in the chaos of a raid on an auction he snatches a Goya
painting. As he escapes, he is hit over the head by crime figure Franck
(Vincent Cassel). 

Due to the blow on his noggin, Simon can't remember where he hid the
painting. Franck tortures him for the location but this fails. Simon is
then instructed to see Elizabeth (Rosario Dawson), a hypnotist who
Franck and his men believe will be able to work his mind and reveal
where the painting is. Simon must lie to Elizabeth about what he is
actually trying to find. 

Aside from the heist, there's very little here that's believable or
clear. There's an early scene for example, where the thugs wire up
Simon with a microphone and listen in on the sessions from their car,
which doesn't ring true. One of the major problems with the film's
plotting is that there is little time establishing who the characters
are. The screenplay by Joe Ahearne and John Hodge is hesitant to
revealing the inner life of the main players only so that they can
withhold a huge plot twist at the end. It's not a gamble that pays off
because the 'gotcha' moment feels more like a conventional thriller
twist rather than a psychological insight into Simon's character. 

Failing to establish the characters properly weakens their credibility
and motives and makes them seem more like plot devices existing in a
vacuum instead of real people. You will be wondering why Elizabeth
strives so persistently to help Simon and when those answers are
revealed late in the film they're improbable and unsatisfying. The
narrative twist will remind you a lot of Inception, which Trance draws
heavily from in the way it plays with memories, but it is without the
same clarity or the emotional investment, failing to earn its story
turns from the start.

Realising the generic hide and reveal structure of the narrative, Danny
Boyle has employed an aesthetic resembling a music video to
disorientate the viewers. I was impressed with the bravery of his
formal choices in 127 Hours (2010) but it's like he's forgotten how to
be calculating as a filmmaker. The stylistic choices he makes either
lack purpose or overstate the theme. Camera angles are frequently
tilted sideways and a neon lit colour scheme is employed to remind us
tiredly of Simon's confusion. The blaring electronic soundtrack also
raged so loudly and needlessly that I stuck my fingers in my ears at
one point. 

If these superficial techniques weren't distracting enough, the film
also tries its hand at melding the real and the fantastic together in
overlapping scenes, so that we're not sure if we're in a dream or not.
The film becomes very messy, super violent, and not much fun. I found
it so confusing that it took me out of the story and I didn't care one
iota about the characters. If there is a point to their story, the film
is about the way that people try to suppress trauma and personal
responsibility in their minds. Yet for a movie striving to be
psychological, it is the personal and human weight that is notably
missing.
