
This movie was near perfect to me, and let me explain why: The actors
portraying the three (can you call them) anti hero's incredibly well. I
don't quite know how accurate they were in comparison to the real
criminals but as standalone characters they were pitch perfect (even
the Rock, who may have actually stolen the show for me).

Tony Shaloub is no actor to be laughed at, he played such an
interesting 3 dimensional yet despicable character that forced me to
try to come to terms with how I felt with him being the victim.

And what really made the movie for me was the phenomenal writing and
directing combination, there were intensely serious moments surrounded
by the blackest of black comedy, something that shouldn't have worked,
but it did!

My only problem with the flick is that it IS a true story. From what
I've heard it's not even based on a true story, it's just a
sensationalized docudrama with added humour... Christ (re read this
after you see the movie and then you'll find it funny... I hope)

TL;DR VERSION Not for kids; great movie with great casting, writing,
direction, cinematography etc.; But it loses a point for taken such a
sad, serious story and making it painfully funny.
<|_=00=_|>
Michael Bay's "Pain and Gain" is a very bleak, very dark comedy about
three knucklehead bodybuilders in pursuit of their own American dream,
even if the road there is paved with sex, drugs, torture, humiliation,
and even murder.

Bay is shamelessly reputed for huge explosions, choppy editing,
excessively flashy/glitzy cinematography, sexy women, fancy cars and
(recently) giant robots. With "Pain and Gain" he returns to low-budget
territory since his debut "Bad Boys" in 1995. The result - the film is
a debauchery in style - it's all over the film. Although Bay cuts back
on the explosions and robots (mercifully), everything else has Bay
written all over it, and considering how morbidly ridiculous the film's
subject matter is, Bay tackles it in such a head-on and energetic
manner that the audience is whisked off for the insane ride ahead.

For this movie, he has assembled together Mark Wahlberg, Dwayne Johnson
and Anthony Mackie as the three bumble-heads who have their hearts set
in the right goal but clearly lack the intellect to do so. All three
men look jacked up, and play their parts as ridiculous as the part goes
for it, especially Johnson, who clearly is having a blast showing off a
completely different side of him as opposed to what we've been seeing
him of late. Wahlberg plays a character so dangerously goofy and dumb
one will wonder whether such a person exists in real life. Tony
Shalhoub's unfortunate but still jerk-ish character sets the tone for
most of the movie as his predicament grows from one spectrum of
ridiculousness to another. By the time we've reached sexy Bar Paly's
and hilarious Rebel Wilson's love interest characters, the audience
have probably seen enough.

Then in comes Ed Harris as Detective Du Bois. Just when I thought the
film was about to careen off the rails into insanity. He's the only
sane person in the whole movie, and his presence helps bring balance
and clarity to what was a ludicrous first half.

Comic relief is key in Bay's action films, but here he's going all out
at comedy, and he sure does pull of the stops. The film is simply put,
hysterical. The fact that it was indeed a true story makes it all the
more hilarious to watch, who honestly can think of some story like this
and pull if off straight?

I am aware that since this is a film, some liberties had to be made to
the story and characters. Some scenes were undoubtedly exaggerated, but
which one? Every scene looked and felt so surreal, every major
character ridiculous, every line of dialogue inducing a chortle from
the audience. But it was a dementedly fun ride, and Bay, after making
two bloated sequels about giant robots, finally returns to his stride.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally! After that dreadful Transformers franchise, the Michael Bay
who brought us those Bad Boys movies is back! PAIN & GAIN is pumped-up
and hugely entertaining. Mark Wahlberg, Dwayne Johnson, and Anthony
Mackie bring the old saying, in way over your head, to whole new level
of hilarious. Their performances are like The Three Stooges with
biceps. A crime comedy doesn't get better than this..

PAIN & GAIN is your textbook Michael Bay, there are beautiful girls,
fast cars, that 360-degree spinning shot where the camera circles the
actors, plus it's back in Miami too, the land of all kinds of colors
and sunshine! Yup! PAIN & GAIN looks, feels, breaths, and benches like
a Michael Bay movie, alright! Minus the giant robots, and that's a good
thing in this case. I have to give props to the true story that became
the basis for this movie, just the idea of three knucklehead
bodybuilders chasing American dream and the mishaps that happen along
the way because of their stupidity, it's practically a formula for a
laugh riot, it practically begged to be made into a movie. Plus it's
scripted by the screen writing team who brought us Captain America: The
First Avenger, the humor that banks on the cluelessness of the three
leads just keeps on coming and hitting the mark. What a great cast,
including the great Tony Shalhoub and the rising star/funnywoman, Rebel
Wilson who steals every scene she's in. That big girl is going to go
places.

Mark Wahlberg leads the pack, but this ain't The Hangover, because all
the three lead characters in PAIN & GAIN are idiots, that's the
attraction, they think they have it all figured out, but they never
think things through, so when things go haywire, they're forced to
improvise and when they do improvise, people get hurt and even after
that, they still mess up in trying to cover their tracks, it's the idea
of stupid people trying to get a shortcut to fortune, some people can't
handle such fortune, they mismanage it and they're left hungry again.
The film probably would make the late great Tony Scott proud too,
because it moves like an A-D-D person, one scene moves to the next very
quickly, which also speaks about how rash the three leads are in making
their moves. Dwayne Johnson, Mark Wahlberg, and Anthony Mackie have
impressive comedic timing, you should see them panicking or cornered,
their performances get even more intense. I hit the gym but I don't
even come close to what Wahlberg, Mackie, and Johnson do regularly,
perhaps. Their biceps have biceps, that's how ridiculously massive they
look on the big screen, their belief in fitness is going to make you
feel quite insignificant. PAIN & GAIN may have some commentary about
American Dream, on whether or not those who do achieve it actually
earned it, but in the end, it's just a laugh out loud cautionary tale
told through the style of Michael Bay.

-- www.ramascreen.com --
<|_=00=_|>
Watching Pain&Gain today I was thinking that this film could have been
handled as a straight drama. But given the absolutely preposterous
nature of this true story I think playing it as a black comedy was the
only way to go.

The film reminded me a whole lot of Fargo with a bit of Casino and
Goodfellas thrown in. Three bodybuilders who become jealous and
resentful of the wealthy clients they have at a health club they work
at conceive of a plan to rob one they truly think is an obnoxious rich
fool. That client Tony Shalhoub is just that is besides the point,
these guys are like the hired criminals in Fargo and everything that
can go wrong does. This film is exponential Murphy's Law. And Shalhoub
proves to be tougher than these he men can imagine.

The three muscle bound Moriartys are Mark Wahlberg, Dwayne Johnson and
Anthony Mackie. Their back stories are provided with their own
narration as Scorsese did in his crime classics, but these guys have
results like Fargo though not at first. Their own weaknesses in the end
defeat them.

Pain&Gain is laced with humor with a dash of pathos in as far as the
criminal masterminds are concerned. They've sculpted themselves into
the bodies beautiful and such Adonis/Apollo features deserve the best
that life can offer. They think some cosmic joke is being played on
them that an arrogant little worm like Tony Shalhoub should have so
much wealth with all the big boy toys he can possess because of same.
So Wahlberg, Mackie, and Johnson resolve to fix things as a matter of
justice and entitlement. 

I think if you have a quirky and bizarre sense of humor and a jaundiced
view of life, you'll go for Pain&Gain.
<|_=00=_|>
For years, Michael Bay's career has solely consisted of shoot em up
flicks and apocalyptic disaster movies. One after the other, they've
always told the same stories, utilized the same clich√©s and have been
brutalized by critics everywhere. Personally, I never had anything
against the guy. He does what he loves to do and almost 100% of the
time gives his audience what they're there for. But don't mistake him
as a one trick pony. Bay has been making a career of blockbusters for
the sole purpose of having the luxury to make serious, less expensive
movies. Pain & Gain might be proof positive of my point. It was quite a
daring move for Bay to commit to such a bold feat as to make a film
based on the true events of the Sun Gym gang. Like most of the film's
critics (and there are quite an abundance of them), I agree that maybe
it wasn't such a good idea to reenact the actual murders and
backstabbing actions that these murderers did and play them up for
laughs. Because, yes, this is indeed a comedy. Or is it? I can't tell
what genre this movie falls under. But I cant deny thats its
entertaining. I was very interested in the story of the actual events.
What I'm trying to say is, the execution couldn't have been better in
telling the story. The performances from Wahlberg, Johnson and Mackie
were equally unique and insanely enjoyable. The three of them were able
to capture the meat-headed simpletons that these criminals really were.
The movie as a whole works. As a thriller, I was thrilled. But as a
comedy, I was sort of indifferent. At times, I found myself laughing at
some of the film's darker shaded sense of humor, and rolling my eyes at
the cringe worthy, Adam Sandler style gross out jokes that the film
unwillingly felt obligated to shove down our throats. An identity
crisis, this film indeed had. When you get past all these cons, Pain &
Gain is a well crafted, violent joy ride. Its one of the most
underrated films of the year, and its worth your time in seeing it.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start this out by saying I hate Michael Bay. I hate Michael Bay.
OK, OK, he's not the worst director in Hollywood. He's got his s**t
together, and people are willing to pay him to glue together the worst
movie ideas and turn them into a semi-watchable blockbuster. However,
Pain & Gain isn't one of these movies.

"Wait, how does that make it good?" You ask? Well, my position is that
Bay actually cared about this movie. He pitched this movie for years,
even when he was a more struggling director, and nobody would buy it.
Eventually, this movie was made on a measly budget of $26 million. Not
exactly peanuts, but nowhere near the budget Bay is used to. I believe
this encouraged him to put some real thought into it.

First of all, this is a dark, dark comedy at its core. It's Fargo
ramped up to eleven and edited into the pace of a 2-hour-long
seat-edging action thriller. The movie manages to go from serious, to
gory, to slapstick all in a matter of minutes, and somehow still
manages to work. It'll be impossible to keep yourself from cracking out
in laughter, even though all of the characters are completely unlikable
and self-absorbed. The movie constantly mocks gym jocks, self-help
optimism, and class privilege. The acting is superb. All of the cast
was well chosen, from Dwayne to Shalhoub and especially Wahlberg. And
that shocking fridge horror moment comes with the realization that it
all actually happened. Yes, unlike Fargo, that disclaimer at the
beginning of the movie is an honest one, and the actual events are even
more outrageous than this movie itself.

Most of the criticism seems to come from this movie being made as humor
deriving from a true event, but I don't think it could have been done
better any differently. All of the changes made to the events were
understandable in order to make it watchable as a movie; Adding extra
humor in order to balance the absurdity, merging a few characters into
one much larger one, or even actually *toning down* a few parts to make
them more believable. There are so many memorable moments that are
permanently affixed to my brain, unlike other Bay films which are
utterly forgettable. That makes this a cult classic, and easily one of
my favorite movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't thrilled with the movie, but that doesn't mean it was not
good. Actually, I think this film had incredible substance, due
particularly in part to the casting. I would have given it 7 stars, but
the length of the film took it down a notch (they could have knocked
off 14-19 minutes worth of unnecessary, and sometimes boring footage).

The film started off with Wahlberg seeming to be just like Wahlberg.
But, long story short, he and the film evolved to a character that fit
him (and vice versa). Based upon the plot, I think it was a good match.

Dwayne Johnson is not brand new to drama, but this was a different kind
of role nonetheless. I don't feel he was 100% there, but his likable
character makes you just ignore it. I think with a few more roles like
this, he'll be better.

I'm not that familiar with Mackie, but he did a great job in his role.
Apart from Shalhoub, he was probably one of the most believable
characters. He made me think of a subdued and more serious version of
Mike Epps.

Shalhoub....well, what can you say about this guy? He was awesome in
Monk, and his style is always great. He is a talented actor and the
casting of him was a solid choice. He has that goof look to him, yet
his face can show some noteworthy seriousness. This was no Giamatti
being cast as a thug...Shalhoub can pull off a "tough guy" pretty well.

I've always been fond of Ed Harris, but his role was insignificant.
Same for Corddry.

All in all, this was a well-made film deserving to be watched. I doubt
I would ever watch it again due to it's slow development at times, but
I'm glad I did see it. The casting was unexpected and unique.
<|_=00=_|>
Movie review:Does the Rock appear in every movie throughout the summer?
Anyway this movie is based on a true story which makes it that much
better when you see it. Reason for this? These "criminals" have to be
the dumbest people in the world. The story revolves around 3 fitness
trainers or muscleheads that decide they want the better things in
life. Well, of course, the best way to get them is to steal it. The
mastermind to this is Danny Lugo (played by Mark Wahlberg who again is
great) who concocts a scheme to kidnap one of the clients of the club
(Tony Shalhoub), and extort his millions. So he recruits Adrian
(Anthony Mackie) and Paul (Dwayne Johnson) to exact this brilliant
plan. I would dive into the plan, but I really don't think there was
one. That is the beauty of the genius of the plan. They said "screw it,
let's wing it" and since they are aforementioned idiots, this leads to
some extremely funny moments. The movie itself is not action, but more
of a comedy that just shows how dumb people are. So let's just say they
painstakingly achieve their goal and score the money, but that is only
half of it. In their own ways, one score wasn't enough due to their
various eccentric behaviors and now a new plot is hatched, which you
would think after the first plans failure (barring getting the money)
they may have learned they are not cut out for this. There are plenty
of little side plots in the story that when the movie sums them up for
you in court, you will be just listening to the account of this heist
and just plain out laugh, not even realizing you just saw it in the
past two hours of viewing. The characters work so well off of each
other that the humor comes fairly quick, yet subtle. This is all put
together very well into a fine flick that delivers the laughs. I was
impressed that Michael Bay pulled this off since he isn't known for
comedy. Set in the 90s and in Miami, the look is just what you would
expect, fluorescent colors, jean shorts, etc. all are abound. A very
comedic look at a violent yet amusing crime that actually happened. I
would love to know just how accurate this movie is, because it just
seems so over the top on how stupid the characters were. Oh, one thing
I noticed that I am unsure how this fits into the criminals lifestyles
and is more used for humor:An obsession with the male sex organ, real
and fake, the subject comes up a lot. All and all, an enjoyable movie
and the Rock once again steals the show with his g-d fearing coke head
character that will just keep you laughing. 6.6/10 IMDb 6.9 I
personally think it was just a bit too long, but that is OK. Bonus for
wrestling fans, look closely for a Kurt Angle sighting in this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Pain & Gain is a great movie with a very well developed storyline and
an outstanding cast that have the ability both serious and funny which
made them great casting for a movie I like this.Although it is very
hard to believe,this is actually based on a true story,and as the movie
continues it becomes more and more unbelievable,but are robed every now
and again that it is actually a true story,which was clever because
they obviously knew people would be thinking that throughout.This movie
has different characters narrating throughout,which is something I have
complained about in past reviews,I just think we should only be
following one character,and when we learn about a different characters
past it should still be the main character telling their story,I think
it should have just been Mark Wahlberg's character telling the story
instead of switching around to Dwayne Johnson,to Bar Paly and later on
Ed Harris,they gave so much characters the chance to narrate which just
really irritates me.The movie really is a breath of fresh air
considering it is directed by Michael Bay,who's never done a movie like
this before,and the characters are nothing like Mark Wahlberg,Dwayne
Johnson or Anthony Mackie have played before. Pain & Gain is a very
enjoyable movie that I would recommend to anyone looking for a good
action or comedy.

Based on a true story about three bodybuilders who get involved in
burglary and kidnapping in order to get all the money and wealthy
lifestyle they desire,but to fact that none of them are particularity
brainy dosen't help them. 

Best Performance: Mark Wahlberg
<|_=00=_|>
Now i'm going to begin with me telling you that this is my first review
on here which is mainly down to an annoyed state i was left in reading
what some of you have even thought up for this film.

It was nothing but brilliant! Seriously, form start to finish the mix
of hilarity, dumbness and violence was done great. Bay has taken the
true events of the Sun Gym gang and made them into the black comedy
masterpiece this film is. The way he has had these actors play the
characters from the real story may not be the exact portray of them but
from what actually happened, he can't be far off! 

Everyone fits the part perfect. Wahlberg the more serious of the three
yet throws in the comedy perfectly as he always does. Johnson (The
Rock) as you should know him, funny, cocky, beefed up and packing
punches! I'll be honest, i didn't know who Anthony Mackie was until
today but again, the right choice to have and this made a trio of
criminals/idiots the funniest i've seen in a long while. It wasn't just
those three actors though, everyone was fitting to their role and if
you're like me, you know why these choices were funny to add into this
film.

This obviously won't be everyones cup of tea but if you can see this
film for what it is really supposed to be, which is not by any way a
straight up comedy, then you won't be disappointed. Plus, The Rock on
cocaine for 40+ minutes is movie gold.
