
Wow, after reading the reviews that are at the extremes, I really
didn't know what to expect. But I like to judge controversy for myself
and so when the title came up at the $1.50 Theater we went.
Surprisingly, the smaller auditorium was about ½ full. What a
delightful movie, so far and away from what I was set up for by all the
disparaging - bordering on hateful comments and low ratings. It makes
we wonder if the low raters even saw the show, or have hearts of stone;
their reviews discredit them. The movie is about a local minister, in a
small church, who works several jobs to make ends barely meet, married
with two small children. His parish loves him and life is marginally
good. But then his four year old son gets a burst appendix, and their
whole life gets turned upside down for fear their son will perish. The
minister screams at God, his faith tested to the core. A pray chain is
set up at the church, in the town, and the boy narrowly pulls through.
Everyone is relieved and life gets back to normal. Or so it seems. But
then the four year old begins innocently to reveal to his father, that
he had had an out of body experience, and provides details of heaven,
like seeing his father screaming at God in the hospital chapel. Over
time, the boy continues to relate more material so that the father
consults a psychologist who discredits the actual encounter as normal
memory tricks. Somehow the news leaks out of the family, to the church
and community, and public controversy ensues. What to believe? Yet
still more and more facts come out from the child that could not be
known to the child except from his encounter; that then convince the
minister of heaven's reality, from his son's innocent testimony. The
minsters faith waivers, but then finally returns to belief. The movie
is a real tear jerker. The plot moves quickly and steadily; the acting
is superb, the child priceless. It ends well, a happy ending and faith
is explored. For me, it was a pleasant surprise and in all a fine
little low budget movie that witnesses faith with honest reason and
doubt. Definitely worth the $1.50 and the time.
<|_=00=_|>
I read the book and really liked it, gave me plenty to think about. But
in all honesty I couldn't imagine they would be able to make a good
movie out of this. I was certain it would end up overly sentimental or
artificial or that it simply would not live up to the book. However,
they did it  hence the surprise. This movie IS the book brought to
life on the big screen. The casting is superb. Greg Kinnear is the
ideal father, Kelly Reilly is fine as the mom, and how they managed to
find the perfect child to portray Colton Burpo is amazing. Connor
Corwin is so natural and likable, he is wonderful in the role . This
movie is not preachy. It does not tell the audience what to believe or
not to believe. Like the book, it gives those of us who believe further
evidence that we're on the right track. But for those in doubt, it
gives you plenty to think about and leaves you with questions you must
work out for yourself. It just might leave you with hope and the
courage to think there might be something to this belief in Jesus and
Heaven. All in all, this is a splendid movie and I'd recommend it, and
the book, whole-heartedly.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this film. 

I knew the basic plot going in, but was pleasantly surprised on how
well the film was put together. There was comedy, drama, real-life all
wrapped in one film. The acting was solid. Greg was great, Margo was
awesome, Thomas and Nancy were solid and I was in love with Kelly.
Conner was great at just being the innocent child.

I loved the scenery, the rural life, the wide open spaces, the
cinematography and the family life complete with it's struggles. Add to
that the trauma of a nearing losing a child then having a unique
heavenly experience. Rather than simply preach to us, the film shared
the real human flesh struggles of a man that was a minister, but still
a man. 

Even if not based on a true story, it would be a great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm very spiritual but not very religious. This movie does an excellent
job of sharing important information about the very real issues that
near death experiences (NDEs) bring up. All the NDE stories have
certain similarities and a judgmental God is not part of them at all.
Religion doesn't matter either. All that matters is love for one
another. IMO. 

Those last few sentences were preacher than this whole movie -- which
is a very good thing. It is very tough to tell a spiritual story
without being preachy, but this movie does it very well. 

If you have the slightest interest, you will enjoy this movie. Is it
perfect? No, nothing is, but this movie is pretty good. 

8 out of 10 stars. Acting is good too. Kudos to all involved in the
production. 

Epilogue: There's an odd phenomena happening with any movie that is
religious or potentially religious, like this film. They get a lot of
1-star ratings. I'm certain these come from zealots. Mostly, I suspect
they are militant atheists who think belief in God is the root of all
of mankind's problems. I'm talking about the disciples of Richard
Dawkins here. I'll bet serious money that most of the 1-star reviewers
never saw the movie. 

With a movie like this one there is another potential source of 1-star
reviews, fundamentalists who like their religious ideas literal and
straight from the bible. Those folks will not like this movie at all.
Real spirituality is complicated.
<|_=00=_|>
To start Sorry if it offends you but I am no fan of religion, I do
though love good movies so it makes no difference to me what they are
about. In this case Greg Kinnear who has been on a bit of a kick in
this general direction lately provides a fantastic performance as a
Father trying to make some really tough decisions while the walls are
getting thinner. Kelly Reilly is her usual fragile beauty (that you
just know is going to go south in just a few years so she had best get
it all in now) and still in morning from a recent loss that she will
not talk about. 

Over everything I Enjoyed the movie, and found that the supporting cast
who are mostly well known TV faces, were very good, and helped a great
deal with legitimizing the entire production. The kids of course though
were the entire show, and they all shone brightly giving very real
feeling to these characters, and letting the audience get the sense of
family, and safety that is shared amongst this small tight community. I
say go ahead, and watch it, yes it is mostly Reverend Lovejoy sermons,
but it's the family, and community moments in between that give us all
hope.

Jesse of www.Jesse.ca
<|_=00=_|>
Heaven Is for Real (1:39, PG)  borderline, 3rd string, original

You might be surprised that this film attracted an atheist activist
like me. But I went to see it because  as part of my self-imposed
obligation to catch EVERY science-fiction and fantasy movie that hits
town so I can review them for my listserv and at SF cons  it looked
like it might have some fantasy elements. I ended up classifying it as
"borderline", which is where I put movies that are not clearly SF or
fantasy but might be if viewed from a certain angle. This one leaves it
open to interpretation whether little 4-year-old Colton Burpo actually
experienced a trip to heaven while he was unconscious on the operating
table at death's doorstep with a burst appendix.

The Burpos are presented as being among the nicest people you could
ever hope to meet, and not in any "holier than thou" sense but as
solid, down-to-Earth working folk, a kind, loving, and happy family.
The dad, Todd Burpo, a part-time Protestant minister in Imperial,
Kansas, is humble and declines the title "Reverend", saying "Call me
Todd" even to members of his own congregation. He wears a work shirt
and sits in the pews with the other congregants while the church
service is doing other things, like Bible readings or singing led by
Todd's wife Sonja.

The skeptical attitude is clearly articulated by several different
characters in the film, including Todd Burpo himself, who's obviously
having trouble wrestling with and reacting to what his son has been
saying about his brief sojourn in heaven. And the conclusion is not
some grand revelation or depiction of the "real" heaven but rather an
informal sermon in which Todd (well played by Greg Kinnear) talks thru
his uncertainties and tells his fellow congregants that "on Earth as it
is in heaven" means that we should each value the little bit of heaven
we share when we appreciate the people who love us.

Frankly, an avowed humanist couldn't have put it much better.

Still, there's the obvious fact that little Colton has been drenched in
religion for almost his entire waking life, and that such total
immersion surely accounts for everything he claims to have seen. And
the Burpos had been having serious financial difficulties, a
not-so-subtle motive for playing Colton's story for any financial
benefit it might bring. Nor does the film stint from dramatizing those
perfectly naturalistic explanations.

In short, if you were expecting a piece of pious propaganda, this isn't
it. It's more like a nice, non-saccharine family drama with unusual
subject matter, kind of along the lines of We Bought a Zoo. On my
9-point scale, it rates a 6.
<|_=00=_|>
Instead of praising the bad characters in a story (see Disney's
movies), I prefer this movie 10x10 times. Look around and observe the
beautiful and the good among us. We were all born good, aren't we? If
someone was born talented and gifted, they shall tell these people's
stories, not unearthing devils and demons or witches, hurting this way
people's harts and minds with apocalyptic creations. Why speculate
simple people's and children curiosity and simplicity? I understand:
they make money.., but by all means?

A 10 stars again, for art dedicated to the good cause...

Good luck for the creators of the movie!

cc
<|_=00=_|>
I Saw heaven is for real it really inspired me. It was a great movie
and one of the best movies ever made and that I've ever seen. I saw it
again and I am a Christian and It really got me inspired. It was one of
the best Christian movies I've ever seen that and Son of God. Greg
Kinnear and Kelly Reilly did a great job in the movie. The movie was so
much touching and inspirational inspiring movie. I read the book and
the book is as just as good as the movie. I love Christian movies but I
saw something special in heaven is for real then in Gods Not Dead and
to my opinion Heaven is For Real was way better than Gods Not Dead.
Heaven for Real was brilliant and to my opinion it's the best movie of
the year and best movie ever made. I would recommend for anybody to see
Heaven is for Real. And it's a family movie so go and see it and I'm
defiantly going to buy it when it comes out on DVD
<|_=00=_|>
A story of a boy who's been in Heaven for a short time. He can tell his
father about people that he has seen and things that only they knew
about. Other people just think the boy is crazy. End of Review 

I do like that Hollywood is starting to make more of these type of
movies. More modern than the ancient times films; I believe students or
teenagers can relate to today's times. Lets face it; it's the teens
(13- 16) that go to the movies. My son used to work at AMC theater, he
says: lots of parents, just drop off their kids at the movies. Or they
go in with them to a "R" rated movie and walk out (leaving their kids
there to watch a rated "R" movie, alone). AMC will call their parents
to pick them up (if they catch them); but parents shouldn't be doing
this.
<|_=00=_|>
I hate the way people pull apart movies trying to determine an
underlying message that is being given to us. Why can't you just accept
a movie for what it is, why do you have to pick it apart. Not every
person who rates this as great is religious but a lot of you are
branding this movie as a bible beating religious crowds movie when that
is not so. I loved this movie because i think it speaks to each and
every one of us, to me it gives me hope that there is something
wonderful out there besides the chaos of the world we live in, where
all people do is fight, and cheat and lie and hate, where we steal from
one another, kill one another etc. If this brings hope, if some people
believe that this is real then let them do so. If you choose not to
like it or believe then don't. As a species we should all be living our
lives better than what we do, we take everything for granted and we
have become greedy and self absorbed, everything is about what you can
get for yourself. And as for the person who said every experience like
what the kid had has always been linked to flat lining, then your
wrong, thats not always the case.
