
In a way, this film is a perfect example of form following function.
What better way to show how empty and perverse the model scene in Los
Angeles is, than to make an empty and perverse movie about it? If
Nicolas Winding Refn wanted to make this point, he has made it loud and
clear.

But the question is: did he really want to make this point? Or did he
just want to take his cinematographic capabilities one step further, by
taking the visual aesthetics to the limit, without bothering about the
rest? 'The Neon Demon' is visually stunning, but lacks substance. The
story about a 16 year old model being literally devoured by the fashion
industry, is nothing more than a vehicle for the visual exuberance of
the film. It is like a 'Vogue' magazine: there are many pages, but they
are all filled with glamorous pictures, and very little text. You can
browse through it, but it doesn't have a message, other than an endless
display of beauty.

To accentuate the perversion of it all, Winding Refn had added some
horror elements, which almost seem ridiculous, especially at the end of
the film. There's also an irritating and very prominent soundtrack. The
acting is mostly unnatural and pretentious. But if you like browsing
the latest edition of Vogue magazine, perhaps this is the film for you.
<|_=00=_|>
This film starts promisingly with an eye-catching and unsettling image:
then the first dialogue (or should I say "direlogue"?) scene starts,
and two things happen. One, the dialogue is awful. Two, the instruction
in Acting 101 "Make the most of your pauses" has been translated here
into "Leave 5 seconds silence before replying to anything which has
been said." The self-consciously clever-dick direction, at its worst,
leads to an interminable sequence which is supposed to represent a
catwalk show in which nothing happens (and it doesn't happen
repetitively, too) for what seems to be half a day. Refn thinks he is
being clever in his direction: he isn't.

The first 80% of the story is trite and obvious: the final sequence is
ludicrous. Refn again. Perhaps it's supposed to be a metaphor or some
sort of metaphysical commentary. It's still ludicrous.

Lesbian necrophilia and cannibalism? I was too busy being bemused (when
I wasn't being bored) to be outraged.

If I had been even slightly engaged, I would have been left with a
bagful of unanswered questions afterwards. As it was, I didn't care
enough to be bothered, although I will chuck one out, just for fun -
what was the point of the mountain lion in the motel room? What did
that add to the narrative? As expected, the Refn Fan Club is full of
the usual "If You Didn't Understand This Parable Of Modern
Existentialism It's Because You're Too Thick" nonsense, to which I
reply Emperor's New Clothes.

If you don't see just one film this year, please make it this one.

It's a stinker. And a boring, tedious stinker at that.
<|_=00=_|>
I wouldn't really recommend The Neon Demon unconditionally to my
friends; not because it's a bad film (quite the opposite) but because
it's the kind of movie that would inevitably lead some of them to think
"he told me to watch it and said it was great. What kind of freak could
possibly like that kind of stuff?"

To call it "not for all tastes" is the understatement of the year,
since the majority of audiences probably won't really appreciate its
very droll mix of violence, cannibalism, dark comedy, necrophilia and
fetishism. In fact, I will be very surprised if there isn't any
condemnation or manifestation of outrage from groups or individuals
arguing that it's yet another shallow male-directed film that
objectifies, stereotypes and vilifies women. I'd also be willing to bet
that Nicolas Winding Refn, who, like his fellow countryman Lars Von
Trier, has a reputation for being a provocateur par excellence, had
exactly this type of reaction in mind when he made it. There is a
semi-gratuitous maybe-it's-a-dream sequence where a female character is
forced to fellate a knife blade that seems designed precisely to elicit
that sort of response.

Deliberate excesses aside, The Neon Demon is possibly Nicolas Winding
Refn's most straightforward narrative in a while (certainly more linear
than Only God Forgives or Bronson). The film follows Jesse (Elle
Fanning), a 16-year-old ingenue who moves to L.A. (or, to be exact, to
a seedy motel in Pasadena, run by a sleazy and sinister manager played
by a cast-against-type Keanu Reeves) hoping to become a model. Her
naïveté and awkwardness notwithstanding, she first catches the eye of a
powerful model agency head (Christina Hendrickson), then an influential
photographer (Desmond Harrington) and finally a big fashion designer
(Alessandro Nivola) who casts her as the centerpiece of his new show,
much to the chagrin of established models Sarah (Abby Lee) and Gigi
(Bella Heathcote), who don't take kindly to being laid by the wayside
to make room for a fresh new face. 

She is also befriended by Ruby (Jena Malone), a seemingly well- meaning
fashion make-up artist who moonlights at the local mortuary by applying
her skills to make cadavers more presentable, and by an impossibly nice
young man named Dean (Karl Glusman) who would like to be Jesse's
boyfriend and protector. This being a horror film, at least on the
surface, things starts to get weird for Jesse when her new friend and
rivals decide to do something about her rapid ascent to the rank of top
model. To say more would stray into spoiler territory, so I'll stop
here.

Like Quentin Tarantino, Nicolas Winding Refn is a master regurgitator
of old genre films. "Drive" was the bastard son of Michael Mann's
"Thief" and Walter Hill's "Driver", with a few other ingredients tossed
in for good measure (the film also owed a huge debt to Jean-Pierre
Melville's "Le Samourai"). "The Neon Demon" is his love song to Dario
Argento (in particular "Suspiria", which is visually and thematically
referenced multiple times) and to countless Euro-thrillers from the
seventies, starting with the fantastic but little-seen (in the USA)
Belgian lesbian vampire/Countess Bathory retelling "Daughters of
Darkness".

Punctuated by a great electronic score by Cliff Martinez (which sounds
like the best soundtrack that Goblin never wrote in the last 20 years),
The Neon Demon is a visual feast that makes the neon- drenched "Drive"
and "Only God Forgives" look almost drab by comparison. This is a
gorgeous-looking film, set in beautiful locations, with a cast to
match.

The women are all impossibly beautiful and incredibly shallow and
repellent at the same time: they look and move like poisonous snakes
whose skin you would really like to reach out and caress, knowing full
well that you are likely to receive a painful bite. Male characters on
the other hand are almost uniformly visually unpleasant and slimy or
feral-looking (Desmond Harrington's photographer in particular looks
gaunt and menacing like a wolf circling a wounded animal). Only Dean,
the prospective boyfriend, seems like a good, decent human being, but
this is a movie that seems hell-bent on confirming the old adage that
"nice guys finish last".

Elle Fanning is good, especially at the beginning of the film where she
is required to look shy and insecure -- in fact there are no weaklings
in the whole cast. But the film belongs to Jena Malone, whose character
undergoes the most startling transformation as the story progresses.
Her performance is truly daring and committed and easily the most
memorable in a film filled with weird and eye- catching characters.
When you see the film, you'll know what I'm talking about.

Although The Neon Demon is ostensibly a horror film, underneath all the
scary movie trappings lies a very black (and bleak) comedy about a
superficial world where appearances are everything and the only way to
survive is to embrace (quite literally) a dog-eat-dog attitude. It's
most definitely not a movie for everyone (and the only film in recent
memory where a scene involving an act of lesbian necrophilia doesn't
feel gratuitous and out of place), but it's the product of a talented
director who has completed a metamorphosis, which began with Bronson
(2009), from "simple" genre filmmaker into full- blown auteur, with a
personal and distinctive visual and narrative style. If you are at all
interested in cinema beyond regular multiplex fare, it's definitely
worth investing 2 hours of your time.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved the movie Drive. This is not Drive. Here's why:

1. This movie is visually very weak. Don't get me wrong, I understand
this aesthetic. But that is because it is totally played out. I heard
NWR say that he got the idea for Only God Forgives from the mental
image of a clenched fist. I would say for this one he got the idea from
old Maybelline commercials, the 2006 Daft Punk alive tour and some old
Mert & Marcus editorials. It looks cheap, dated and badly executed. The
soundtrack is the same. It worked for Drive because that electro
revival of Moroder in 2001 is the perfect driving music, but now it
just feels tacky. Save your money and just walk into any Sephora store.

2. This movie is not "crazy" or "dark". Every "surreal" moment is
predictable and cliché. Watch Un Chien Andalou and then got to Burning
Man festival and you'll have all the inspiration you will need for a
sequel. Claire Denis' Trouble Every Day makes use of the same clichés
but the difference is that NWR thinks he is the first one to think of
them. 

3. This movie is not a "critique". This doesn't reveal the truth of
anything except a made- up idea of the fashion world. Who told NWR that
modeling make-up always involves putting a bunch of junk on the girls
faces? Who told him that the center of the modeling world is LA and not
New York? That Elle Fanning, who is short and pudgy, is somehow meant
to be believable as a more desirable model than Abbey Lee Kershaw? If
she is so good why does the camera cut away every time she is meant to
strike a pose or walk a catwalk? Abbey Lee says at one point that by
the time you are 20 your past your expiry date. She is 29 and had a
major Calvin Klein campaign earlier this year. 

4. The story sucks (because NWR "wrote" it, unlike Drive). The story is
basically Black Swan. Think pseudo-lesbian jealousy corrupting a young
hopeful in a competitive industry. But then add a few dozen plot holes.
This girl is the modeling worlds' new It Girl and yet she can't afford
a motel that isn't rape-infested? Or ever go to a hospital? You can
successfully bury a girl in a six inch grave in a perfectly manicured
garden in a house that isn't yours? And why are there only about 6
people in the whole movie? Parties, nightclub toilets, restaurants
photo shoots and the backstage of runway shows usually have dozens of
people around, not three. Especially not the same three every time.

The acting is pretty lousy but who cares at this point. I'm sure most
fans will think that dislike for this film comes from its dark,
confronting, disturbing portrayal of our superficial society. It
doesn't. It comes from wanting to watch something other than an old
loser jerk himself off for 2 hours to a 2001 copy of Vogue magazine.
<|_=00=_|>
As a viewer who has enjoyed a handful of Nicolas Winding Refn's works
like Drive, Bronson, Valhalla Rising, and even Only God Forgives 
which I defended wholeheartedly in a 2013 Amazon review  it pains me a
little to kick off my review with the following statement: It is
difficult to decide what I dislike most about Nicolas Winding Refn's
The Neon Demon. Critics giving Demon positive reviews and arguing that
its monomaniacal focus on style is intentionally on par with the film's
message are missing the reality that NWR's creative juices are simply
dried up at the moment.

So what is the least admirable trait of Refn's latest? Is it the
paucity original thought? The onslaught of the routinely neon- drenched
Kubrickian imagery? The fact that a good sixth of the movie feels like
the director got away with making fetish porn with an Amazon Studios
(and about a half dozen other production companies) budget? I'm not
even going to start in on the film's literal blood baths, but I think
that the lack of originality is probably the worst part.

Audiences have already seen everything that The Neon Demon has to
offer. Cinematically speaking, there is nothing more than the usual
slew of rehashed Kubrick frames (including a groan-worthy Shining shout
out within the first few minutes). Aside from a memorable strobe- light
inspired scene of a performance at a model- populated L.A. party, Refn
adds nothing new to his aesthetic arsenal that he has not already
splashed on the screen with his previous four films.

From a narrative standpoint, one should not expect a fully-formed,
fleshed out story or characters. These are not Refn's preoccupations
when making a movie, and there's nothing inherently wrong with that.
That is, if the film's style and themes can compensate. Stylistically
(see paragraph above), it does not hold any substantial weight.
Unfortunately, there is even more of a thematic drought.

At one point in the film, the increasingly narcissistic protagonist
Jesse (Elle Fanning) says that other girls will cut, carve, inject, and
do anything else to their own bodies just so that they can look like a
second- rate version of her. The girl from the small town who seemed so
nice starts becoming a bit conceited by her time in the fashion
industry. Can you believe it? Imagine that! Wow, what is the director
trying to say about fashion? Hollywood? The male gaze? SOCIETY?

If there is one thing that 2106 films like The Neon Demon and Zoolander
2 should be teaching would-be blockbuster directors and art-house
auteurs alike, it is that the fashion industry has become one of the
stalest targets for satire in any artistic medium or genre. It's not
that superficiality doesn't deserve it, but at this point if a writer
or a director has nothing original to say about it, then they should
not be saying anything all.

To be fair, the trite and shiny cloud of unoriginality that is The Neon
Demon does have its silver linings. I have never felt so badly for a
film score than I do for Cliff Martinez's excellent work on this
soundtrack. While the message of the movie will blend in with the
mental smoothie of other Hollywood/superficiality parable flicks, I
will not easily be able to excise Martinez's thumping synths from my
ears. I will also never forget the intensity of Abbey Lee's stares.

There are also less silvery scenes involving Jena Malone taking the
tired psycho lesbian trope to whole new level and an absurdly Nicolas
Cage-esque Keanu Reeves as an acrimonious motel manager that I will not
forget for other reasons (primarily the random shock-less "shock value"
senselessness of them). I wish I could recommend The Neon Demon as a
startlingly original work from a gifted auteur, but it feels like Refn
simply isn't challenging himself or the audience in any meaningful way.
Here's hoping that this kind of trite and shiny would-be shock fest
will not be the only thing that Refn has to offer cinema in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
Nicolas Winding-Refn is a director who defies all analysis. Most
considered him a surefire "Commercial Success" following on from his
exceptional adaptation, Drive back in 2011. However, against all odds
Winding-Refn went darker, more subversive and all together more
polarising with his 2013 release Only God Forgives.

The Neon Demon is sure to be equally divisive. I was lucky enough to
attend the red carpet premiere of the film in Cannes and was personally
blown away by it's unique style & vision. It's long slider shots demand
attention and draw attention to every minute detail on offer. It's use
of mirrors encourages the viewer to look beyond the "real" world and
examine what lies on the other side.

Obviously, it goes without saying that this film looks amazing. If
nothing else, most of Winding-Refn's supporters or critiques will admit
that his films aesthetics are always incredible. However, despite the
muted dialogues and slow pacing, the film gripped me for its full 110
minute run time. This was because, although the movie is a "horror",
it's so much more. It's an examination of the human obsession with
beauty.

Elle Fanning does a remarkable turn as Jesse - a young runaway, trying
to make it big in Los Angeles. Her beauty is so powerful that things
begin to work to her favour almost immediately on her arrival. More
over than that, her beauty seems to encapsulate and draw in those
around her, while repelling her peers who scathe her. Her natural
beauty is something that all the plastic surgery in LA can't generate.

Jena Malone steals the film as Ruby - a make up artist who befriends
Jesse as soon as she arrives in the town. She also introduces Jesse to
the vacuous and vindictive pair of models played by Bella Heathcote and
Abbey Lee. If you haven't guessed already this is a film with a real
focus on females. Although there are a handful of male characters
(Dexters Desmon Harrington does an incredible turn as a high power
fashion photographer), the focus here is all feminine. Even down to the
decision to bring in a female DOP to shoot the film.

There are too many twists and turns to get into here, but all I can say
is that this could be Winding-Refn's most powerful movie to date. It's
an analysis on the human condition and our obsession with natural
beauty. It claws and scratches at our preconceptions and breaks us
down, revealing the gooey centre; what makes us tick. Stellar
performances, amazing visuals, a banging score and a unique storyline
will cement this as a cult classic - of this I am sure.

I cannot wait for the theatrical release if only to have more time to
soak in the films dreamy visuals, take in more of the films subtexts
and once again be blown away by the force of nature that is NWR.
<|_=00=_|>
It seems that, after the massive success of Drive, Refn is being given
the opportunity to make the films he wants to make and take a lot of
creative license.

I think this is a good thing, and it's a smart way to go about a career
in any creative industry. Achieve mainstream success doing things that
are commercially viable, and when you have people's attention and
trust, you can do something more abstract and creative and people will
actually go see it with an open mind, and quite possibly love it. 

Another example of this is a band like Radiohead, they put out "Creep"
which is a perfect radio single, and when that got them famous, they
went and made albums that would never have been produced or listened to
if they had done them straight away. 

This is a cool movie. It's not for everyone. The editing, camera work,
framing, pace, screenplay, lighting, production design, wardrobe... all
the creative elements of this film have a modern, stylistic feel that
seems ahead of it's time. It's the type of movie you may want to tell
all your friends is your "favorite" even if it's not, just to make
yourself look cool (haha.. sad but true)

The plot is very abstract, and contains a lot of elements of
surrealism. Refn reminds me of film-makers like David Lynch or Terry
Gilliam or even Salvador Dali. I like that he took a risk and really
went with his vision to make a film that could never have mainstream
appeal. It is a piece of art, and left open to interpretation. The
whole thing may be a dream, or an alternate reality, or some
combination of these with real life. 

The production design and framing and editing made me feel things and
think things and imagine things. It seemed to be trying to take me on a
journey through space and time while telling an intoxicating story that
was an allusion to the real world. 

It helps to be in the right state both mentally and physically for a
movie like this. It's the type of movie you want to watch in a very
dark room, on a very comfortable couch, with a big screen and a great
surround sound system. Then you can prepare to get lost in the film and
experience it as a whole, instead of just watching it.

I definitely can't watch movies like this everyday, and while it is a
great exercise in expanding your mind, being creative, and thinking
abstract thoughts, it may seem boring on the wrong day. 

A cool thing about movies like this, is the re-watch-ability of them.
Most movies are best the first time you see them, and don't offer much
for a repeated viewing. This is the type of movie that can be watched
many times. The experience will be different each time and you may
notice or realize things you didn't see the first time. 

It reminds me of David Lynch and his movie "Mulholland Drive." I really
love that movie and it is similar in the way that people love it or
hate it. With "Mulholland Drive," I watched it many times, and grew to
understand it on my own terms, which was a fun journey.

I do hope that Reft doesn't decide to continue making movies that are
always this abstract. Often times, I watch movies with a great plot,
that are very entertaining films, but wish the director and
cinematographer had been more creative with the lighting and camera
work. Seeing his style and eye applied to mainstream blockbusters and
thrillers would be really cool in my opinion, but I doubt he will ever
go too far into directing movies with a typical "Hollywood" script.
After the success of "Mulholland Drive," Lynch continued to make
exclusively dreamy, abstract movies, and while I respected that, it
just didn't seem necessary.

Go check this movie out with an open mind on a night when you are
relaxed and feeling good. Maybe watch it with some friends and have a
good conversation afterward sharing thoughts and interpretations; I'm
sure they will vary radically. You might love it, and you might hate
it, but I think most people will respect the artistry of the film and
have trouble forgetting it anytime soon.
<|_=00=_|>
So I guess female vanity is some kind of dark magic and you see the
innocent virgin attracted to its glowing allure. As she is drawn into
it she meets a coven of witches: a passover, a wannabe and a sorceress
supreme, who all covet what she has. The passover wants to kill her,
the wannabe is jealous of her and the sorceress supreme who
occasionally turns into a wildcat attempts to seduce her, but, awake to
the power within her, the innocent virgin instead opens herself to her
destiny as the vessel of 'The Neon Demon'. The coven then kills her and
eats her flesh to gain for themselves the powers of 'The Neon Demon'.
Which is female vanity or the male gaze or some nebulous cloud of
similar tropes referenced in terms of fashion modelling. 

The bad laughs and eye-rolling material comes on early where our
innocent virgin hits all those on-the-nose beats about falling from
innocence in the big city. Speaking of 'beats', long expanses of the
film seem like the cinematography was only there to provide a light
show behind Carpenter-esque synth jamming. An example of this was a
heavily abstracted scene where our innocent virgin is finally possessed
by 'The Neon Demon'. I guess 'abstract' is the word for it. 'Stoner
planetarium laser show' would also suffice. Within the narrative
continuity, this possession is meant to have occurred when the innocent
virgin is given the star slot in a famous designer's runway show. One
is left with the suspicion that the filmmakers couldn't actually show
this happen in the context of an actual runway show because they didn't
have a clear idea of the reality of a runway show. The scenes
bookending the sequence feature some of the most self-serious and
unintentionally silly dialogue in the film. 

After her possession, the film takes a steep dive into very silly
territory. Our innocent virgin is presumably transformed now that she
has accepted 'Teh Power', but Elle Fanning has none of the startling
aesthetic presence attributed to her character either before or after.
We're just meant to recognize her unique and startling attractiveness
because it's written into the dialogue. By the foot of the second act,
audience credulity on this point is strained. 

There's a scene of the sorceress making out with a corpse, a ten minute
sequence of the witches washing the innocent virgin's blood off their
bodies in slo-mo under blue light while the sorceress, also covered in
blood and glitter, gazes on and one of the witches heaves for ten
minutes, in another ten-minute sequence of a character doing one thing,
before throwing up an eyeball. There's more goofy stuff after that.
There are a lot of party-bulb and blacklight shots which go on for way
to long. A lot of bad dialogue. It's not a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I have enjoyed most of the Nicolas Winding Refn films I've seen. I love
both Bronson and Drive. I tried to like Only God Forgives, but
couldn't. I came into The Neon Demon with neutral expectations. I
walked out of the end credits disgusted with myself for not having left
sooner.

The Neon Demon is vapid, soulless trash. It is despicable drivel. It is
irresponsible. It is made without a sense of accountability to taste or
reason. It is a bafflingly inept attempt at surrealism, where
caricatures are passed off as characters, and bright, pretty lights and
colors as compelling imagery. The potentially interesting (if trite)
theme of the moral and emotional emptiness of the modeling industry is
presented in a laughably inane way, as if it were a fresh, vital
artistic insight.

If Only God Forgives was nudging audience members in the ribs a bit too
hard, The Neon Demon kicks us in the groin. Repeatedly.

This is true both in the film's style and content. I'm a firm believer
that any subject can be dealt with in a film. There is a line of
decency and human concern that is usually difficult to discern, and is
obviously highly subjective. Shocking scenes will often polarize
viewers, and, usually, there are legitimate points to be made on either
side. Neon demon goes miles over that line. There is no defense for a
scene where over the course of what I would estimate to be a couple
minutes of screen time, a woman molests a female corpse. The audience
sees and hears almost everything. I won't go into further detail.
Unfortunately, Refn did. If this weren't bad enough, this footage is
intercut with an abstract representation of the woman's fantasy about
an underage girl who earlier rejected the woman's advances. The girl is
16 in the film, and Elle Fanning was either 16 or 17 at the time of
filming. 

I don't consider myself a prude when it comes to dark topics in film.
As I said, I firmly believe there are tasteful (or at least acceptable)
ways to handle any issue through the medium of film. An example of a
film which is uncompromising in depicting evil and yet doesn't cross
the line is The Silence of the Lambs. However awful the acts of
Hannibal or Buffalo Bill are in that movie, the film is made from a
place of heart, of empathy for the victims, a place of humaneness. It
doesn't revel in the crimes of its villains. We are meant to be
sickened by them. When Hannibal clobbers a policeman (nearly?) to
death, the director is very selective in what we see, focusing in on
Lecter's demonic glee. It's a thrilling, gut wrenching scene. In Neon
Demon's necrophilia scene, everything is fair game. A large part of the
reason this scene is so reprehensible to me is that it seems almost as
if it's meant to be titillating.

I wonder: How would this film have been received if the necrophile were
a man molesting a female corpse?

It's disheartening to me that a small minority of people seeing this
film actually like it. I can't help but think (and hope?) that they're
simply fooling themselves, that their affection for Refn's previous,
far superior films is being unduly extended over this one. As with Only
God Forgives, perhaps the cinematography is distracting enough for them
to forgive its fundamental storytelling flaws.

But even though I found The Neon Demon intermittently nice to look at,
and in spite of my adoration for the genius of Drive and Bronson, I
hate this film. Even if I was to pretend there was no sickeningly
indulgent necrophilia scene, or other lingering, exploitative shots
which directly contradict the premise that the film is an indictment of
the male gaze, I would still hate this film, simply because it is so
bad.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure how this has an average rating of 6 stars. There's
basically no dialogue, no rhyme or reason to any of the characters or
plot, terrible acting, no emotions, no action, no anything.

The main character is the least attractive character in the movie,
which makes the story even less believable.

There are several scenes in the movie which were there strictly for awe
value, and did not contribute anything to the actual plot.

The whole thing is just boring and awkward, and I want these 2 hours of
my life back.
