
I enjoyed this film quite a bit: it kept a good pace of tension which
makes for a good thriller. The acting is good (no academy awards), and
it did a good job of giving a glimpse into the operations of 911 call
centers which is a fresh topic - and it did so without dragging the
pace.

The main bad guy becomes ever more creepy as the plot progresses which
helps build the tension. The ending takes an interesting twist which,
in the moment, doesn't feel quite as out-of-character as others
describe - mainly due to a good segue shot that probably took more than
a few takes to get right. 

The weak spots consist mainly of some CSI style technology leaps that
only technology morons would buy into, and a single bit of clumsiness
that just feels scripted. Unfortunately the CSI technology leaps are
very popular in Hollywood (to my dismay) and the bit of clumsiness is
key to the plot progression.

If one or two minor transgressions make you feel like you wasted your
money, wait for it to show up on Netflix. If you enjoy a good edge of
your seat thriller and can overlook the transgressions, go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
The Call was an interesting watch. I don't think I've ever seen a movie
build up so much tension in the first couple acts and just spiral out
of control so badly in the final act. Did anyone like the end of this
movie? I don't know, I tried to wrap my head around it but I just
can't. Anyway The Call is about a 911 operator Jordan played by Halle
Berry who gets a call from a girl who has been kidnapped by a serial
killer. Turns out this is the same killer that Jordan had dealt with a
few months earlier who ended up killing the girl she was on the phone
with. Jordan took responsibility for her death because she
inadvertently got the girl caught by calling her back on the landline
which allowed the killer to hear the phone ring and ultimately find
her. Since then Jordan stepped away from being an operator and took on
teaching until the day the call came in about the same guy with the
same MO and Jordan is the only one who can talk the girl through this
delicate situation. 

I love the premise of this movie - it's heavy on the dialogue but it
doesn't go overboard with the drama. Everything is down-to-earth and
realistic for the most part. It feels like you're genuinely watching a
911 operator help someone through a kidnapping and this is largely due
to the acting by both Berry and Abigail Breslin who plays the girl in
the trunk. The first couple of acts are fairly slow on action, but
there are plenty of nail-biting scenes and overall tension building
that keeps your eyes glued to the screen. Now, the third act kicks
things into overdrive in every possible way. I won't spoil anything if
you haven't seen it, but it essentially goes from Halle Berry the
psychologically unstable 911 operator to Halle Berry the idiotic
superhero. She starts doing things that are horribly out of character
and it lessens the believability to the point where the tension falls
flat. It was still fun to watch and I don't think it ruined the movie
by any means, it just dampened what could've been a really effective
down-to-earth thriller.

The antagonist of this movie is a mixed bag. The actor Michael Eklund
is great in the role. He has played creepers before, namely the
Dollmaker in Arrow which I thought he was fantastic in. Here he's your
standard psychopath, or at least he starts out that way. As the movie
progresses you find more things about this guy and his motive becomes
really confusing. We discover that he has a shrine to his sister who
died of cancer in his room, and there are pictures of what looks like
an incestuous relationship between he and his sister before she died,
and then it turns out he's a hair fetishist who scalps his victims
while they're alive to preserve their hair and puts it on a mannequin
head, presumably to keep the memory of his sister alive. All of his
victims are blonde girls like his sister was so that's the only
reasonable motive I can think of, but they explain it so poorly and
throw all these weird character traits at the guy that it just gets
confusing and weird. I'm sure the filmmakers just wanted to make him as
creepy as possible so yeah I guess it worked.

Again, I really enjoyed The Call and was invested throughout, despite
the drastic tone change in the final act. Seriously I have no idea what
the writers were thinking with the ending but wow. There are many
things you can pick apart about this movie but I rate things on how
much I enjoyed them and I thoroughly enjoyed The Call. I'm not sure I'd
ever watch it again, but it was gripping in the moment and I recommend
it to any fan of serial killer movies or psychological thrillers.
<|_=00=_|>
The Call kept my interest and had everyone wanting to scream at the
screen and tell the characters what to do and urge them along. The
characters would alternate between overcoming their emotions and rising
to the challenge and falling prey to them at just the wrong moment.
There was a constant sense of tension during the 911 call and the walk
through of getting the girl to safety. Be prepared to feel that
adrenaline and tension for longer than your body is normally used to.
You may feel just as drained after a call as a 911 operator does...

I really enjoyed the level of detail the film makers put into showing
us the world of a 911 operator and what they go through on a day to day
basis. It's pretty fascinating. I know I could never do that kind of
job. That kind of stress day in and day out has to wear on a person and
probably often hardens them.

The ending involves a twist I wasn't expecting, and gains my respect
for that, but it was still somewhat disappointing because I wanted it
to go further. Those who have seen the movie will know what I mean.

If you found yourself at all interested in the trailer go see this
movie! You'll like it!
<|_=00=_|>
This was a good thriller and it sucks you in right from the start.
There is no down time and at no point does the movie get slow as many
thrillers do. One thing is for sure, You wont be able to take a potty
break! 

Of course the movie does have some weak points but what movies don't?
My main grip would be the ending, it seemed kind of lazy, but I think
they wanted to make it somewhat realistic... maybe? This movie is not
going to win any awards or anything like that, but it is fun to watch.
So, if you enjoy thrillers, you won't be disappointed with this one!
So, go ahead and check it out, don't be over critical, just enjoy it
for what it is, a fun, on the edge of your seat thriller that will get
and keep you engaged from the first minute.
<|_=00=_|>
'The Call' is one of those movies where the feel dictates everything-
Either you find yourself deeply engrossed,excitedly anticipating what's
next or you feel disconnected and cant sit through it.With 'The call'
it's the former.The movie wastes no time in getting things started and
once they do,there's hardly a dull moment.The actors are well cast.
Halle Berry plays a gutsy 911 phone agent who is desperate not to
repeat a mistake made.Frankly she was amazing...way better than i
expected.

The movie works because it has it's ingredients well cooked.The acting
is superlative,the pace exhilarating.The background score is brilliant
and adds another dimension to this thriller.The movie captures
perfectly the horror and terror of being a kidnapped victim to a
psychopath,the tension of being a 911 phone helper(Who needs to display
equanimity,sympathize and be nimble-minded,all at the same time).It is
a genuine tale,thrilling,intriguing .......and at times even
scary.Definitely worth a watch.Go for it.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been quite awhile since I've reviewed a movie, but this one
warranted one.

I had seen the previews for this movie left and right over the past few
weeks and it did a sufficient job of pulling me in, so I decided to go
to to the theatre and check it out. I didn't have too many expectations
going in, but were they definitely fulfilled and then some.

This movie has an old-school vibe and feel to it. It doesn't rely on
heavy CGI to get it's point across. In fact, it has a very meagre
budget, but it doesn't show or feel that way one single bit. I was on
the edge of my seat for much of the film. The tension was top notch,
the tones were absolutely spot on, the close-ups of the actors and
actresses faces showed their true nervousness, stresses and worked
effectively.

The story is over the top, but the acting is very good. It's been
awhile since I've seen Halle Berry in a film where I deemed her
performance to be honest and believable until this one.

Some people may not like some of the camera work during the "cruel"
scenes, but I happen to like it.

There were a few unintentionally funny scenes, but I chalk it up to
dark comedic moments and it isn't detrimental one bit.

I highly recommend you check this movie out if you love a top notch,
edge of your seat, over the top plot, well acted thriller. You will
most likely not be disappointed.

9 out of 10 stars, easily!
<|_=00=_|>
There is the main character who is good but not perfect, and there is
the one mistake she makes that almost destroys her. And there is her
nemesis, engaging her at a challenge greater than any she has had to
confront before.

The Call models just about all the techniques of good storytelling.
Character, plot, action, and suspenseall the ingredients of a good
thriller are there, and blended well. Halle Berry gives a superb
performance heading a cast that is capable overall. We can sense and
feel the story as it happens.

The bad guy is always a step ahead. Except when he is two steps ahead.
Except when the protagonist undertakes a bold new move and, if it
works. A big "if," that is.

On a couple of occasions, this movie gives stinging reminders of human
fallibility, specifically lapses of good judgment that can cause a
situation to deteriorate. We want to beckon the characters in front of
us to do certain things, and fast. But they are either too daring or
too guileless to anticipate the curveballs that are about to hit them.

Frustrating as that may be, the ending holds a twist gratifying enough
to compensate for those frustrations. That even glosses over a certain
lack of dénouementperhaps the one part of storytelling this movie
could have used more of. Or was it part of the plan to leave a few
things to our imagination?
<|_=00=_|>
The skilled 911 operator Jordan Turner (Halle Berry) receives a phone
call from the teenager Leah Templeton (Evie Louise Thompson) reporting
a burglary at home. Jordan instructs Leah to hide herself in a room,
but Jordan commits a mistake with tragic consequences, affecting her
career. 

Six months later, Jordan is a trainer of rookies in the 911 service
haunted by her past. While showing the operation to the group, a new
operator faces the call from the teenager Casey Welson (Abigail
Breslin) that tells that she has been abducted. The operator panics and
Jordan assumes the call, trying to calm down Casey and to get
information to identify where she is and who kidnapped her. Now Jordan
faces the chance of redemption and gives her best efforts to help
Casey. Will she succeeds in her intent? 

"The Call" is a thriller with a breathtaking first half that makes the
movie worth watching. It is amazing how tense I was with the realistic
despair of Casey in the trunk of the car, a type of crime not difficult
to happen in Brazil. Unfortunately the writer Richard D'Ovidio does not
resist to the Hollywood clichés and destroys the believable story that
could have been a great thriller. Who in the world would investigate a
dangerous murderer without a weapon or telling at least to her
boyfriend that is a police officer the findings in the crime scene
before exploring the location? Further, wouldn't be much easier to use
the mall cameras to identify the red car? My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Chamado de Emergência" ("Emergency Call")
<|_=00=_|>
The Call is good solid entertainment for the first 2 acts. Until the
girl is taken out of the car and into the basement, it all goes to
hell. The ending makes no sense for the characters and makes me wish
that I had left as soon as the hour mark hit, so I could make up my own
ending. That way I wouldn't have to sit through ridiculous plot twists
and generic meltdowns. Halle Berry was good but her performance in
Cloud Atlas was so much better, and that is probably do to the writing
and direction. Brad Anderson isn't talentless and perhaps his next film
will be an improvement. But the final act just screws this movie up so
much. Overall I like the film to the lowest rating I can go and still
go positive but the film doesn't deserve anything higher than a 5.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
"The Call" is a tidy little thriller, modeled, in large part, on the
movie "Speed." Halle Berry plays the Southern California 911 dispatcher
who's in a race against the clock to rescue a teenage girl (Abigail
Breslin) locked in the trunk of a serial killer (Michael Eklund).

Director Brad Anderson keeps the action going at a breakneck pace,
providing pulse-pounding, edge-of-the-seat suspense that helps us to
overlook the stray inconsistency and implausibility that wander into
the narrative, particularly towards the end (the movie doesn't entirely
escape the Third Act curse common to the genre). There's also an
unfortunate tendency towards the sadistic that spoils some of the fun.

The really distinctive feature is that writer Richard D'Ovidio has made
Jordan, the dispatcher, a compelling, easily identifiable figure by
emphasizing not only her strength and craftiness but her insecurity and
self-doubt as she does her best to assist people in making it through
sometimes unimaginable crises.

The movie is a bit overwrought at times (again, looking at you, last
half hour) and it ultimately succumbs to too many serial-killer
clichés, but "The Call" is a whole lot better than many of the more
highly publicized, big-budget thrillers of recent times.
