
Wow, I was so impressed with this movie. I will admit that the first 20 
minutes were pretty generic for me and I found myself thinking, "This 
is pretty much what I expected, but it's a free screening so just enjoy 
it." 

However, once Reynolds and Jackson team up on the screen the entire 
chemistry of the movie changes and it ended up being one of the funnest 
"buddy cop" movies I've seen in quite a while. (I know it technically 
isn't a buddy cop movie, but it really is for all intents and 
purposes.) 

The movie doesn't take itself seriously (were you really expecting that 
with Reynolds and Jackson?!), and just like any modern action/comedy 
the plot isn't meant to be something like Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy. 

This movie is 100% worth spending the cash to go see in the theater 
with a group of people. I can also tell you this, the atmosphere 
leaving the theater was great; this movie is a lot of fun!
<|_=00=_|>
The Hit-man's Bodyguard is a movie I never knew I wanted to see until I
saw the first trailer. I was instantly hooked, and couldn't wait to see
it on opening day. Well, I actually got a bit lucky for once as I was
invited to see the movie almost two weeks before it opened. And I gotta
say, it's one of the best action/comedy movies I've watched in quite a
while...perhaps since Deadpool.

So what's this movie about? Well, it's about a guy (Ryan Reynolds) who
used to run a protection agency before he lost a client and his
business failed, forcing him to become a personal bodyguard. He is
tasked by an Interpol agent to get a witness who is a former assassin
(Samuel L. Jackson) to a courthouse to testify against a dictator.
Craziness ensues.

While the story sounds interesting, it plays out in a pretty typical
and predictable way. Not that I should have expected much more. It is
an action/comedy film, after all. But predictability aside, the story
does get the job done. Yeah, you'll be able to figure out how the film
will end within the first 30 minutes or so, but that's not all that
important, because it's all about the journey to that very predictable,
and satisfying, ending. And boy, the adventure that Samuel L. Jackson
and Ryan Reynolds go on is extremely entertaining.

Being a comedy, you'd expect some good comedy in this film, right?
Well, The Hit-man's Bodyguard delivers on that expectation and then
some. Once you get past the movie's slow start, it's pretty much an all
you can chuckle buffet. (The chemistry between Ryan Reynolds and Samuel
L. Jackson is incredible!) Of course there are a few jokes that fall
flat, but they are few and far between. Oh yeah, if you're a fan of
Deadpool humor, you'll really like this movie. It's not full-blown
Deadpool, but it's pretty damn similar.

Now, the biggest surprise for me with this movie is how great the
action sequences are. The team behind this film definitely drew some
influence from movies like John Wick and Jason Bourne for both the
combat scenes and the chase scenes. They're riveting, with some great
humor sprinkled in.

Overall, The Hit-man's Bodyguard is one of the biggest surprises of the
year so far for me, and will definitely go down as one of the most
enjoyable films of the year. It's funny, it's action packed, and the
story is interesting enough to keep it all moving towards a satisfying
conclusion. So yeah, I guess you could say it's pretty dang good. Go
see it when it comes out on August 18th.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw a preview of "Hitman's Bodyguard" last night with my wife.
We are both fan's of action and comedy and went into this hoping it
would be as good as we hoped from the actor's involved. I am a HUGE Sam
Jackson fan and an equally big Ryan Reynolds fan. I'm glad to say that
this movie did not disappoint! 

I would've given this movie a 10 if only voting on the action and
comedy but there were a couple of plot points that were slightly
predictable. I don't feel these couple of things hurt the movie much
due to what the movie is being advertised as, which is an action comedy
and this is by far where it shines. I laughed harder during some scenes
of this movie than I've laughed in a long time during a movie. The last
I remember laughing harder is last year during "Deadpool". 

If you like lots of action and great comedy with actors with plenty of
chemistry and don't mind a significant amount of f-bombs, which if
you're a Sam Jackson fan I'm guessing you don't, then drop some cash
for a ticket. You won't be disappointed!!
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched a sneak preview of The Hit-man's Bodyguard. I had high
expectations given the cast of Ryan Reynolds and Samuel L Jackson. The
movie exceeded these expectations! Over the top comedy and action --
best combination since Deadpool last year. Definitely worth watching!

I'm a long-time IMDb user, but this movie was so good, I felt I needed
to get an IMDb login so I could review it!

Top movie I've seen this year, edging out Baby Driver!
<|_=00=_|>
I read some reviews that trashed this movie and I'm wondering if these
are the same people that thought that Birdman (worst movie ever) was
the best a couple of years ago. OK...I get it and I understand why
people are hating on this movie. The movie is violent, predictable and
has a script that is full of foul mouth language. But the beauty of the
movie experience is that when you walk into a theater, turn off your
brain and enjoy this movie for what it is. I laughed out loud and
enjoyed this from beginning to end. Yes it is full of unrealistic
stunts, bullet dodging and perfect aim by the "good guys" but that is
what makes it enjoyable. Of course it is it is full of "F" words but
that is what makes this movie fun. 

Samuel L, Ryan Reynolds and Selma Hayek (who played a surprising role)
are fun to watch. Trust me don't go in thinking that this is some type
of Jason Bourne or Jack Ryan spin off because it's not. Just sit back
and watch it with the intent on being entertained by this funny
action/comedy. There are some references to some old movies so you have
to be keen and recognize them.
<|_=00=_|>
Well what a waste of my time. I don't know if the movie is bad or not,
but i have seen this type of movies a 100 times. Very cliché, very
embarrassing to look at times. Ryan Reynolds performing as a unsuited
Deadpool, cause that's what his character is, Deadpool without a suit.
We get it, he is suppose to be funny and sarcastic, but come on, not in
every single line of the movie. There is a scene "spoilers" Where he is
being torture, that it has the same feeling as when Wayde Wilson was
being held in the mutant x underground laboratory.

On the other side, Samuel L Jackson, must have signed a contract to say
motherfuker. every time he can or the producing company made that,
because, well he says it at least 20 times. Really hard to finish
movie. Is a movie that you wont even remember that existed a couple of
moths from now. Watched in the cinemas. PLEASE Don't, wait for DVD
release or stream it.
<|_=00=_|>
Watched the movie about two weeks back. I must say that initially it
was not my first choice. I am a big fan of action and looking at the
showings it was too scientific and didn't interest me that much but
nevertheless I ended up watching it because my first choice was? not
available at a time. 

I liked that it kept me intrigued and almost was wondering how Samwell
and the most respected body guard are going to cross their paths. It
was interesting, entertaining, funny, memorable and full of action.
Probably one of the few movies I would like to watch again. Big up to
the producers.
<|_=00=_|>
This has got to be one of the worst action movies that I have ever
seen. The lead actors are totally wasted on this rubbish, Samuel L
Jackson must be desperate for a paycheck to even think of lowering
himself in parts like these. I don't know why the makers of movies
these days even bother hiring a scriptwriter, as the entire movie is
just one long F**K, or endless variations of the word, they even
managed to cram three 'M***********S' into one sentence! It is strictly
a by the numbers movie, the head of the agency is a masculine looking
woman, the agent assigned to protect Jackson is a woman,the villain has
seemingly thousands of henchmen all willing to die at his bidding,
there is the van chase through the streets, the motorbike chase through
the market,the motorboat chase through the canals....Yawn! If you are
12 years old and like to hear the 'F' word over and over again, or
otherwise totally brain dead, then you will love this mess of a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
There was a time when the buddy movie formula ruled the Hollywood
cinematic universe. We loved the brashness of such films as Lethal
Weapon or 48 Hours. But then the formula fizzled out and filmmakers
moved to other things. To cite an obvious example, The Nice Guys (2016)
starring such acting heavyweights as Russell Crowe and Ryan Gosling was
smartly set in the '70s but despite its okay plot, and superb acting by
both Crowe and Gosling, wasn't a big box-office hit.

The Hit-man's Bodyguard looked like a great idea on paper  bring
together Ryan Reynolds, fresh off the boat from his profanity-ridden
Deadpool and Samuel L Jackson, who is known for his on-screen cussing,
and wait for the fireworks to start as the duo at first go all out to
murder each other and then develop a mutual respect that borders on
friendship. And, for most part, director Patrick Hughes, of The
Expendables 3 fame, gets it right. The best scenes in the film are when
Reynolds and Jackson are pissing each other off. Reynolds doesn't roll
off expletives like he does in Deadpool but Jackson does go over the
top. Reynolds smartly plays the straight guy to Jackson's more
gregarious character and it works.

The plot of the film is explained in its title itself. Reynolds is a
down-on-his luck private security agent, who is cajoled by his
girlfriend Elodie Yung, an Interpol agent, into making sure an ace
hit-man, Samuel L Jackson, reaches the international court at Hague
alive to testify against an evil dictator of Belarus  which is an
actual country, by-the-by . The creepy dictator is played by Gary
Oldman who gets to ham to his heart's content. Now, the bodyguard and
the assassin have a history  it's revealed that Jackson tried to kill
Reynolds some 28 times in the past  so one can see that their
relationship isn't going to be easy. In fact, they start of by trying
to kill each other and only Jackson's injury prevents him from killing
his would-be bodyguard. The rest of film is devoted to the banter
between them and how they defuse the tension and reach their goal.

The film's chief flaw is that director Hughes just doesn't get the tone
right. Instead of concentrating on making a buddy movie with a
smattering of violence, he goes for the overkill, piling up bodies by
the dozen at every action set piece. Then, there are a couple of gory
scenes as well that jar. Gary Oldman executes the wife and child of a
rebel in cold blood and Reynolds is tortured through electric shocks in
a graphic manner. The action scenes too don't have a fluid intensity
that we have come to expect from Hollywood blockbusters. Then, while we
get that Reynolds' motives for helping his ex is to get her back, there
are too few scenes between him and Yung to get the chemistry going.
Compared to that, the scenes between Jackson and his wife, played by
Salma Hayek, are epic. She out-cusses him in a scene set in a jail and
we see a nice montage of her fighting off guys in a bar and Jackson
mooning over her as she uses the jagged edge of a beer bottle to open
up a man's neck that's love at first sight served with a Gothic twist.

The film would have fallen flat if not for the efforts of Reynolds and
Jackson. We can see they are enjoying working with each other and it's
their camaraderie plus some crazy-ass dialogue that saves the day.
Watch the film if you are a Ryan Reynolds and Samuel L Jackson fan.
Watch Midnight Run instead if you want to watch a real buddy movie
<|_=00=_|>
Typical international cast diversity propaganda, comedy wanna be,
cliché ridden, mundane and at the left.

The first hour of the movie: 2 short action scenes and the rest is
unfunny dialog in a room

Second hour of the movie: 2 short action scenes and still the same
retarded unfunny dialog with your cliché ending.

The acting felt forced. The story was far-fetched, with your cliché
Russian villain with half a brain, the action was not believable and
silly, the dialog was annoying and unfunny.

This movie by far is not an action movie, since it has only 15 minutes
of action at best and that's out of 2 hours of running time.

Most of the movie the people are talking in a room, lead characters
constantly arguing with one another for no reason at all, just so to
bring up one unrelated to the plot issue or the other. It seems that
this movie was about interracial relationships, not action or comedy.

The dialog was silly, if not to say idiotic, overacted, not funny.

The movie is just not funny overall. The only reason it made money was
the star power behind this movie. Oldman, Jackson, Reynolds, Hayek. I
guess most of the movie budget was spent on them and the rest on the
script. Thus, the comedic fail.

All went to see Jackson and Reynolds who are both good actors, and they
both sucked in this one. Oldman, usually brilliant, is really trying to
act as the Russian villain, only to look silly as another cliché "evil
Russian guy". Salma Hayek is simply annoying in this one.

The problem with this movie is that there's too much political agenda
and they forgot about the humour and action.

There are literally no jokes through out the movie, only silly acting
at best and sarcastic passive aggressive BS.

So, there is almost no action and no jokes. So how in hell is this an
action-comedy?

This is a crappy hardly believable weirdly romantic interracial, may be
even gay, feminist drama with really annoying acting, two really
empowered women of different ethnic backgrounds and the two lead male
characters are both cucks.

Basically, this movie is about two cucks who are being nagged on by two
empowered bitches and the Russian guy who is trying to kill them all,
coz he had a life before, but now he got no life.

What a tragedy. Really sad and boring movie.
