
While everyone else in the world adores penguins, there is one group
out to destroy their cuteness. Their name is... 

Dreamworks Studios. 

Even though skipper, kowalski, rico, and private are amazing
characters, combining the elements of penguin cuteness, sophisticated
humor, and slapstick comedy, this movie certainly did not uphold those
previous character elements. 

The first part of the movie is a nice introduction to how the penguins
became who they are now and gave a nice backstory. However, the rest of
the movie (to put it lightly), sucked REALLY bad. This was easily the
worst Dreamworks movie I had ever seen. The main villain looks like a
cartoon version of a Tim Burton character, the plot is meaningless, and
the jokes are few and far between. 

They could have made countless jokes about fracking, global warming,
oil spills and the countless other environmental problems we have
today. They could've gotten morgan freeman to do the introduction, they
could have had a few cameos from the other madagascar characters. 

(SPOLIER SENTENCE NEXT) 

But instead, the main villain was an octopus that was jealous of how
cute the penguins were so he captured them all and tried to turn them
ugly. So they partnered up with four one dimensional secret agent
characters who somehow have millions of dollars. Care to elaborate on
those characters? Can we have an introduction? Maybe just something?
No? Okay. 

I'm sorry but what a waste. Seriously the transformers movies have a
comparable plot. Wait did I just say that? 

Sparknotes: Do yourself a favor and don't go see this movie. It
honestly spoiled the Madagascar franchise for me. 

SERIOUSLY IT SUCKED
<|_=00=_|>
It is funny all the way , never a dull moment . They managed to sneak
in touching moments too . These penguins are wily & go-getters . Nobody
can mess with them . Kowalski is tech support , skipper is leader
(obviously) , rico is worker & private is sincere eager follower . They
can and do outwit everybody . I remember in 'madagascar 3' where
skipper said 'you only get one chance at first impression' after hippo
lady could not break the door . Some people are saying it as hard
selling and by-product of successful 'madagascar' franchise . But ,
this is thoughtfully scripted . Full entertainment for family .
Dialogues are glib and mocking .
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was cute because it is the penguins. I saw the Madagascar
movies and watch the penguins TV series. I liked it except for
different voices for the movies and the TV series.The only constant
voice and same character was skipper. The others looked different from
the show. Another thing I do not like are the name innuendos. What
point does it have? Just for laughs? I think they could have done with
out that. It would have been nice if they would have tied it in with
the TV series as they did a tie in for the Madagascar movies. How did
they get all the gadgets for the TV series? They are supposed to be an
elite squad, where are the gadgets?
<|_=00=_|>
2015 kicks off with a stupendously silly but mostly amusing animated
film that is best enjoyed with easy-to-please toddlers chuckling by
your side. After stealing the limelight in the Madagascar trilogy, the
awesome foursome get their own adventure, complete with globetrotting
hijinks, high-flying acrobatics and extravagant escapes. Filled to the
brim with physical comedy and written quips (a string of celebrity
themed puns are hilarious), this spin off adheres to the franchise's
humour-formula of quantity over quality, but is so light in tone it's
hard to begrudge it. The eponymous flightless seabirds  Skipper,
Kowalski, Rico and Private  are as intrepid, idiotic and cuddly as
ever, but are arguably better suited to stealing scenes at second
fiddle rather than leading from the front for a whole movie. There's an
underpinning message  don't underestimate the little guy  that
permeates throughout the swift runtime, building up to a stock standard
finale that skimps on laughs in favour of a moral payoff. Penguins
lacks the adorability of Paddington, the exhilaration of Big Hero 6, or
the intelligence of either, yet remains a decent option for families
looking to waste a couple of hours during the school break.
<|_=00=_|>
Skipper, Kowalski and Rico rescue an egg but they drift out to sea. The
egg hatch into Private and the gang go off to adventures together. Ten
years later, they break into Fort Knox to get the Cheezy dibbles from
the vending machine. They are abducted by Doctor Octavius Brine who was
Dave the octopus. Dave lost his fans at the various zoos to penguins
and now plans to take revenge on them using the Medusa Serum. The
penguins have to stop Dave with the help of the animal spy agency The
North Wind.

The Penguins are the funniest thing in the Madagascar franchise. The
core story is fun. It has a lot of great references. It takes cute
unexpected turns and has great cartoon action. There are big laughs and
funny throughout. I like it even better than the Madagascar movies.
<|_=00=_|>
There's an old saying that says, "If you forget your past, you doom the
future." This is what unfortunately happened to this movie. The plot is
weak and disrespects most of what has been stated for the penguins in
the first movie and the television series. Now i know some would say
that the series are supposedly set in an alternate history but the
series followed best the penguin characters from the first movie. The
Penguins of Madagascar had great potential but wasted it. The villain
was weak and pathetic compared to villains introduced in the series.

However, this movie packs some fun dialogs and good laughs (for the
first half of the movie) and is also a good family fun. This movie is
forgettable and frankly not one i will want to see again anytime soon.
It wasted a lot of potential but its OK if you forget the previous
movies and not take too seriously the way they changed the penguins
characters (I elaborate on this below).

Possible SPOILER incoming so SPOILER ALERT!!! 

In the first movie, the penguins made clear that they had never been to
Antarctica, and yet in this movie the penguins are shown to be there!
Additionally the penguins characters are mysteriously changed! Skipper
for example is now some sort of overly proud fatherly like character
for private. He also speaks a lot which he never did (He was always
brisk). I also thought he was goofy in some actions scenes (which he
never was in the movies and series)He has also always been stern and
reckless (he isn't anymore!!) Kowalski no longer provides us with
inventions or theories, Rico is no longer as sadistic as he was and
Private is suddenly a lot less naive and timid.

These are most unforgivable mistakes that this movie makes. The
penguins so brisk/cute/cold/sadistic manners is what made them so
popular and such loved characters. This movie breaks that. And the
villain? A most pathetic one!! Not all all in the league of villains
like Dr Blowhole or Hans the Puffin.

So much potential wasted!! I would rather pretend this movie never
happened.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard about this movie, I was thankful that Dreamworks
chose to go this route instead of just giving us a Madagascar 4 (though
at this point I won't be surprised if we see one sometime down the
road) and rehashing what we have already seen for three movies. The
Penguins offer a lot of potential. Unfortunately, while Penguins of
Madagascar finally escapes the rehashed feeling of the Madagascar films
with something new, it still proves to be underwhelming.

As the title suggest, the movie focuses on the four penguins from the
Madagascar films, though it isn't necessary to have seen the other
movies to understand this one. When the four penguins have a run-in
with a new villain, Dave, they are forced to team up with another group
of animal secret agents to stop Dave's evil plan.

It's a pretty straightforward plot up until the last bit (which I will
talk about later). The film starts out fantastic. After a bit of back
story the viewer is thrown straight into the action and it keeps up a
nice fast pace. It is extremely entertaining to watch the action scenes
unfold and the humor is top-notch. There are a lot of very clever jokes
and a second viewing is probably required to catch everything. The
voice acting is also top notch and I appreciate that they did not feel
the need to rely on celebrities like many Dreamworks films do (the only
big name was Benedict Cumberbatch, who also did a great job). For the
first part of the film I was very entertained and began to think that
this movie had surpassed my expectations.

But then, just like a balloon deflating, all of the fun, humor, and
energy got sucked out in the third act. The energy was replaced by
clichés and the clever humor from earlier was replaced with just
downright weird jokes that didn't make any sense to me. For the last
fifteen to twenty minutes the film just seems to drag, and by the time
it was over all of the fun and excitement I had been feeling earlier
was replaced by a "Eh, it was OK." I am quite disappointed that the
writers could not keep up the fun feeling from the first half or give
us something truly new.

While I appreciate Dreamworks trying to give us something a little
different from the previous Madagascar films, this one just fell flat
by the end. The kids will probably enjoy it and parents will have a few
laughs at some of the jokes from the beginning of the film, but it
lacks the creativity or emotion to leave an impact the way How to Train
Your Dragon 2 did.
<|_=00=_|>
Awesome, just awesome movie. 

I don't know how to say this but it is a while since I've last seen a
movie that made me laugh freely. 

It is a complete movie from my point of view because it's
understandable for children and it has plenty of jokes for grown ups.
And I enjoyed a lot the jokes related to celebrities names like:
Charlize Theron, Kevin Bacon, Hugh Jackman and others I don't remember
right now.

It has plenty of surprises and it is after all a comedy wrapped into an
animation movie that totally deserves the time spend watching it. I
gave it a 9, maybe a little bit higher that rated but in my opinion you
just have to see this :D.
<|_=00=_|>
This is masterpiece. Being 20 years old guy, i still like to watching
this cartoon. Sometimes my 40 y\o father when have a time watch this.
It's really funny cartoon where are different stories, like about love,
about friendship, about action, about moral values! Each character full
of their life way!

Skipper-Team leader. Always keeps team in healthy shape. Always says
what to do and how to do. He use his "King slap" to calm down members
of team. It's really funny and by this he emphasizes his leadership.
And it is ridiculous in my opinion, is when he says the name of the
operation. "Okay guys, we start operation "******" Let's go!" (c)
Skipper. Ahahahah :D 

Kowalski-Brain of team. He always have plan. Always! True scientist!
His inventions strange but very interesting :D Scientist's language
very funny. When Kowalski start to explain something, it's line OMG,
wut :DD Which makes it really funny :) In many movies\cartoons in every
team must be clever guy, i think in penguins it depicts the most fun,
cool and exciting!

Rico-"Mad KABOOM Guy" I gave him this name :) Very strange one, which
makes him very special in this team. He can only speak a few words, and
the rest he can only make sounds. That's what makes him special :)
Really funny guy :) YOu should watch him and u will understand me :))

Private-cutie of team. Very friendly one :) He always finds in people's
kindness and honesty (with Skipper all the way around). When Skipper
see potential enemy, Private meanwhile trying friend with him :) Hahaha
:) So cute one ;)

What about another guys in Zoo. I just wanna say Dreamworks have very
good taste!!! All personage are amazing! I cant imagine them in another
taste's! Keep doing Dreamworks! I love you!!

10\10!!!!! <3

PS. Sorry for low English :)
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't think I would like this as much or that it would be and feel
as good as it did. It's not easy with spin-offs, the characters are
there, but can you make a movie with them that can hold up? Obviously
you can, which is something I expected (and expect) from the Minions
movie, but not really from the Penguins.

While it's a kids movie, it also has a lot to offer for adults to.
Which every good kids movie is doing nowadays of course. The story is
pretty thin, but we get a couple of new people involved and of course
an "enemy" we have to engage with. The ending might feel like a letdown
for some (to some more than to others), but overall the movie did
achieve what it set out to do.
