
"Oh Boy" is a special movie and a very German one too. We follow the
protagonist Niko Fischer, played by a superb Tom Schilling, through an
entire day in vernal Berlin. This day is filled with several episodes
in which director Jan-Ole Gerster manages to portrait the various
aspects of life in modern Berlin - whether its the Kafkaesque
bureaucracy one has to deal with on a daily basis or the never-ending
struggle to find normality in the midst of hipsterdom and
self-proclaimed avantgarde attitude which makes Berlin so popular
amongst party people all over the world.

What is more, Gerster even succeeds to weave Germany's grim past into
the story-line by reminding the viewer every now and then how pointless
and redundant many aspects of our lives are in comparison with the
unatoned horrors committed by Germans on their own turf and all over
Europe.

Niko Fischer can be seen as the conscience of those of us who cannot
help but deal with what it means to live in Germany and be a German on
a daily basis. It might be even difficult to understand the movie in
its wholeness for a foreigner as it is with literature by Hesse or
Kafka, authors that largely contributed to this piece by making
hilarious absurdity and tragedy confluent. The club toilet scene with
Niko's schoolmate is key here and has almost Freudian dimensions.

Anyhow, I highly recommend watching this film, last but not least
because I tremendously identify with it.
<|_=00=_|>
Whilst the nouvelle vague phenomenon continues in NY, it's seems
Berlin, and Jan Ole Gerster actually has something to say. 

At times comedic, at times serious, the writing is wonderfully wry and
reminiscent of Woody Allen's darker moments. The tension between the
black comedy and the underlying backdrop of Berlin's inescapable
history is a knife edge Jan treads with the delicacy of a master. 

Berlin looks fantastic in black and white, and the effortlessly
understated cinematography and precise editing mean this film deserves
all the hype that Frances Ha is getting and more.

Refreshing, and fresh this is an incredibly accomplished thesis film.
And trust me, you can live without the trailer.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh Boy is somewhat reminiscent of Prozac Nation. The protagonist is an
unlikable, spoilt child, leeching off others while breezing through
life. It is an anti-"Coming of Age" film, showing how people refuse to
"grow up" - even supposed adults. Niko's father is childish, his friend
an underachieving actor and the former classmate he runs into is in a
way still the little girl with a crush on him. It doesn't end there,
even Germany itself refuses to "grow up", clinging to its Nazi past and
sticking to absurd bureaucracy.

On top of having an amusing story, Oh Boy has lovely cinematography.
Berlin looks great in black & white, and with the lazy jazzy soundtrack
it sometimes seems like a 50s film. Quite a promising start from
Gerster, who won just about every German film award around.
<|_=00=_|>
As a German living abroad for the past 12 years, it's been a surprising
pleasure to see, back in Berlin, this little jewel of a movie. Step by
step the young guy's everyday-life situations pull you in, develop a
light but melancholic atmosphere in which great acting, a pensive and
funny script, music that reminds the best of Miles Davis and awesome
black-and-white camera-work form a wonderful whole of a movie. If you
see, towards the end, average shots of Berlin turned into looking
poetic you know the film has found its tone just on the right note.

Beautiful - I hope this (first!) film didn't only accidentally turn out
so well. You want to wish the director, all actors and his crew the
very best !
<|_=00=_|>
A movie describing the life of someone who can't find his place around
people, how he feels that people became strangers to him, but actually,
it's him becoming a stranger to himself.

The movie isn't much of an entertainment, at least it wasn't for me.
Frankly, I was disappointed by the jazzy beginning, which led me to
think more about Berlin as a future Woody Allen New York. But there are
some scenes in the movie that were so simple to understand, they got me
thinking.

The courage of one girl, which was once fat, which led her to stop
ignoring what people say to her. Even if that means to put her in
danger, she can't leave thoughts unsaid.

But by far, the phrase that struck me deeply, was that "People can't
bear the dark anymore". It led me to think about the insecurity people
feel these days, and how they're afraid to be alone with themselves.
<|_=00=_|>
The title of this award-winning 2014 German film is a tease, since the
protagonist spends the day the movie describes tryingand failingto
score a cup of joe. Would he had gotten it, and he might have been
better prepared for his frustrating encounters with his girlfriends
(present and possible future), his dad, the creator of an
unintentionally hilarious performance art piece, and some drunken
toughs, among others. As it is, he is "a victim of inertia," says
Washington Post reviewer Stephanie Merry, a young man who has so far
chucked his opportunities into an ocean of cool. Jan Ole Gerster's
debut film, starring Tom Schilling as Niko (originally titled Oh, Boy),
has created a likable if drifting protagonist and given him situations
punctuated with absurd humor. You want Niko to pull himself together
and for the sparks of empathy we see to flame into action. One of those
flames occurs near the end of the film, when he hears a rambling,
drunken tale that calls forth thoughts of people who really had it bad.
Great musical score by Cherilyn MacNeil and The Major Minors.
<|_=00=_|>
Jan-Ole Gerster's "Oh, Boy," which is called in America, "A Coffee in
Berlin," is one of the most gorgeously cinematographed or filmed movies
of all time, the stills from which could be framed separately as
photo-masterpieces, one after another -- in the hundreds if not
thousands of them -- and then displayed in a museum, simply as a
succession of photographic masterpieces; but this is instead a motion
picture, in which, additionally, the script, acting, casting, musical
score, and, of course (doesn't it naturally follow from all those) the
direction, are literally breathtaking, and the total impression from
that profusion of artistic brilliance left this viewer deeply moved.
It's a film I shall want to see many times, because it's the type of
film that I'll probably understand the more and experience the more
deeply with each successive viewing of it, and there aren't many movies
like that. If you want directorial comparisons, the movies of the great
director Guy Madden, and the two great movies from David Lynch, can be
compared with this one, for their haunting effects and deeply offbeat
and surprising turns of script and for their images which (like this
one's) burn themselves into one's consciousness at a deep enough level
to become a permanent feature of a receptive viewer's being.
<|_=00=_|>
Jan Ole Gerster is still relatively unknown, a director who wrote and
directed so far his greatest success. (A Coffee and Berlin, 2012) is a
surprising tragi-comedy. Niko Fischer played by Schilling, who
interrupted his studies and is trying to find himself in Berlin. The
movie reflects the play of colors, through a black and white melancholy
in the backdoors of Berlin, which brings a big city atmosphere. How
quickly can someone get lost in the extent of a city? I Might emphasize
extremely but it is a well-written story, with a crunchy plot, which is
both dynamic and interesting. As far the idea of broken glass, leaves
the feeling of hopelessness and disconnection. It is to focus on its
central importance. I must mention the editing, sometimes it is
dysfunctional in transition, so the story becomes a little bit stiff.

The main actor Schilling, offers extremely good emotional articulation,
he has a strong repertoar, and brings a lot to the movie. There is a
spectacle or a slow-burning rhythm that you feel in this flick. Almost
a kind of sophisticated intelligent elegance.

When something is dying, there is born something new. Are we really all
alone on this planet, or is it alOne? The ultimate truth lies within
us. Stunning black and white tragicomedy with the addition of old
school German actors, offers an exceptional journey, true the psyche of
a young man...trying. Worth a sneak peak.
<|_=00=_|>
A Cup of Pleasure in film making that scored high with me because of
its thoughtful humor, wonderful acting, crisp black and white film
work, and commentary on the problems of young men fitting into a modern
world. No slapstick comedy here. No raunchy jokes like we get in films
made and about young people. The comedy is underplayed. The dialog is
sharp and meaningful. I read that this is the film makers first effort.
That in itself is amazing since the movie shows such maturity in the
craft. I hope that there will be more films coming from the people who
made this one. Who said that the Germans don't have a sense of humor. I
thing that changing the title from Oh Boy to A Cup of Coffee in Berlin
was a good move.
<|_=00=_|>
Tom Schilling gives a solid performance here, starring as Niko Fischer,
a young man, living in Berlin, who's lost his way in life and is
currently broke, unemployed, has no serious relationships, and is still
taking tuition money from his father without telling him he dropped out
of law school some 2 years before.

The satirical film will capture one day in Niko's life, as he
encounters all kinds of bizarre situations, I imagine trying to be in
the vein of Scorsese's "After Hours". He'll also meet all kinds of
mostly mean-spirited and malevolent people, but one thing he'll have a
heck of a time finding is a cup of coffee.

Although I was intrigued enough to want to know how it would all turn
out, the biggest problem for me was that I felt the filmmaker Jan Ole
Gerster (making his feature film debut) went over-the-top with the
mean-spiritedness and thus I couldn't find much entertainment here. I
imagine we all meet these obnoxious jerks at times in our lives, so I
would have much preferred more of a mixture of oddness and quirkiness
rather than constant malevolence, but that's me.
