
The plot follows 2 imaginative elementary school prankster students,
George Beard and Harold Hutchins (Hart, Middleditch) who hypnotize
their mean-spirited principal, Mr. Krupp (Helms), into thinking he is
Captain Underpants, a hero in comic books George and Harold write
together. 

It is absolutely entertaining for adults and enchanting for all
children who are looking for comedy and entertainment.

Captain Underpants is DreamWorks' computer-animated feature film and
that is why it will be number 1 in most countries of the world.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't let the title lead you to believe that "Captain Underpants: The
First Epic Movie" (PG, 1:29) is "just another dumb kids' movie" or
anything like that. It's more  surprisingly, much more! First of all,
the film is based on the series of children's novels written and
illustrated by Dav Pilkey. The main series of 12 books (not counting
three spin-offs) were published 1997-2015 and received a 2006 Disney
Adventures Kids' Choice Award. The books have been translated into 20
languages and sold over 70 million copies worldwide. So, that means
that the books were successful enough to make the leap to the big
screen, but the question here is whether the movie is any good as a
standalone piece of entertainment. Well, if you're anything like me,
being only vaguely aware of the titular character's existence (if at
all) and skeptical of the film's title, you might need some convincing
regarding whether Captain Underpants is worthy of your entertainment
dollars  or your time  or that of any tykes in your life. For now,
I'll just say that watching the movie convinced me that the answer to
all those questions is a resounding "yes"! The movie takes characters
and plot points from each of the first four books (especially the
fourth one)  and some of the others  while mixing in some new stuff
and functioning as both origin story and fun animated action/adventure.
The story follows two 4th grade boys who are best friends and next-door
neighbors, George Beard (voiced by Kevin Hart) and Harold Hutchins
(Thomas Middleditch, from TV's "Silicon Valley"). Mainly because of
their mean, child-hating principal, Mr. Krupp (Ed Helms), George and
Kevin don't like being students at Jerome Horowitz Elementary (a
fictional Ohio school using the birth name of Curly Howard, of "Three
Stooges" fame). The boys funnel their frustrations, mischievous
natures, natural creativity and 4th grade sense of humor into a series
of pranks which puts them even deeper in Principal Krupp's dog house.
With George as the writer and Harold as the illustrator, they also
produce a series of comic books which depict the adventures of a
dimwitted but enthusiastic superhero whom they call Captain Underpants
(because most superhero costumes look like underwear anyway).

With the help of their humorless and nerdy classmate, Melvin Sneedly
(Jordan Peele), Principal Krupp gets some evidence of the wily George
and Harold pulling one of their pranks and decides to place them in
separate classes. The boys worry that this will result in the end of
their friendship, so they take action. George hypnotizes Principal
Krupp with a cereal box prize (a "3D Hypno Ring") and commands him to
become Captain Underpants. Krupp embodies all of the hilarious positive
and negative traits of the boys' comic creation, which forces them to
stick with him to keep him from getting into trouble or getting hurt.
Then they discover that Captain Underpants reverts to Principal Krupp
when he gets wet, but becomes Captain Underpants again when George
snaps his finger. The movie plays that back-and-forth for lots of
laughs  and gives this superhero a villain to fight when a new science
teacher who calls himself Professor P (Nick Kroll) turns out to be an
evil genius who is trying to rid the world of laughter.

"Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie" delivers all the charm of
the books  and then some. The type of animation (similar to 2015's
"The Peanuts Movie") is perfect for this one and the voice work
couldn't be better. Sure, potty humor is this film's stock-in-trade,
but it's so innocently and humorously presented, that it's hard not to
smile (or laugh  repeatedly). But the beating heart of this script by
Nicholas Stoller ("Storks", the "Neighbors" movies, 2011's and 2014's
"Muppets" movies) is the friendship of the Captain Underpants creators,
which is enhanced by a subtle anti-bullying message. Director David
Soren ("Turbo") gives us jokes, comic timing and sight gags that are
funnier and more enjoyable than most live action comedies  and
includes a great balance of laughs and lessons. You could think of it
as an Adam Sandler comedy appropriate for kids  and just as enjoyable
by adults who will appreciate the relative innocence of George and
Harold, while relating to their mischievousness.

This movie takes common foibles, flaws and fantasies of elementary
school students and turns them into a creative, clever and comedic
animated adventure. But don't just take my word for it. I submit the
following reactions for your consideration: During the preview
screening I attended, both adults and children frequently laughed out
loud, the audience applauded as the credits rolled and I even saw a
teenage girl literally dancing out of the theater as the theme song by
Weird Al Yankovic played. It's hard to believe that so much enjoyment
can be packed into one little movie. Let's just hope it lives up to its
title  namely, that it is indeed only the first epic Captain
Underpants movie. Whether you're a fan of the books or not, give this
one a chance. You'll never look at tighty whities the same way again.
"A+"
<|_=00=_|>
"Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie" is a movie that is finally
released that is based off the book series of the same name by Dav
Pilkey and is about two fourth graders named George and Harold who are
troublemakers in their school and are often ridiculed by their mean
principal Mr. Krupp. When they decide to hypnotize Mr. Krupp into
thinking he is the superhero Captain Underpants, a superhero the boys
created in their homemade comic books, chaos and mayhem then ensues. 

I remember reading these books in elementary school. They were always
sold at our seasonal book fairs, and because it was a Catholic
elementary school, they eventually got banned and were deemed
inappropriate. Captain Underpants was a big part of my childhood, and
though I never finished reading the series as I got too old to continue
with the series, I have always been fond of the series and one day want
to go back and re-read the books. The movie certainly helped with this.
This is a movie that could've been either really good or really bad.
Luckily, it was really good.

This movie, like the books, is very self-aware. It knows it's a movie.
The characters know that, and break the fourth wall constantly. This
worked because by doing so it stuck to the source material. The books
constantly broke the fourth wall and were very self-aware that they
were books as well. If the movie didn't have that element, then this
movie would not have worked as well as it did. That is a key component
from the books that I think has to be in the movie, especially to play
up the laughs. 

The animation is very smooth as well. No technical problems with the
animation in this movie as far as I am concerned. It is a very
beautiful, colorful looking movie. 

This movie isn't a straight adaptation of the first book. The villain
in this movie is Professor Poopypants, probably the most iconic Captain
Underpants villain in the books, and that's what I liked. You give the
most iconic villain from the book series a plot to work with that is
similar to his own book that it felt so nostalgic that it was great. It
was full of potty talk which was great. I know that is a complaint for
many people with these types of movie, but listen, you have to stick to
the source material, and the source material had a lot of "potty" talk.
It had to be in here. There is a sequence from the books called
"Flip-O-Rama" that is a prominent staple in the books and it somehow
made its way into the movie and was awesome!

This is nostalgic fun, full of potty talk, with smooth animation that
has laughs for kids and adults alike. I am going to give Captain
Underpants an A.
<|_=00=_|>
Son: i really love the last part it's so funny i almost broke my spleen
laughing i love the movie you should definitely check it out. read the
whole captain underpants series at your local library. Father: I
watched the movie with my son as he commented above. No doubt that was
great movie for children but as a adult i would say there are many
jokes and part you would love to and I think they also reminded me my
school days.
<|_=00=_|>
OK first off, I'll put a spoiler warning, not because I'll give the
plot, but just a few things I didn't like. First off, the mini song
numbers. I felt that they were a bit tacked on and I found little
enjoyment out of them. Second............ actually nothing else was
bad. I liked how they put in references to their books one through
four, like the robot designs, and while I didn't laugh at every joke, I
liked enough to consider the movie funny. If you are a fan of the
series, go check out this movie, and I can't wait for the sequel,
because it is a book series after all, and I wouldn't expect less. The
only people who wouldn't like this movie are probably people who
haven't grown up with the series. However I do say that if you bring
your kids in and you yourself like animated movies, you find this OK to
great. Results may vary.
<|_=00=_|>
I went with my five year old daughter and she was obviously getting
bored by about two thirds of the way through.

Some of the humour was a little beneath her but at the same time, there
were sections I thought a tad scary.

The story was a bit loose and everything was rather too hectic. But I'm
not a five year old I suppose.

In summary, I've sat through many children's films, most of which were
better in terms of plot, nuance, implementation, etc.

Five year old's dad (aged 50).
<|_=00=_|>
What fuels the imagination of children? Some say it's intellectual
inspiration or reminders from their favorite TV shows. The truth of the
matter is that ironically, boredom seems to be the catalyst for most
children to build their own worlds. Think about it. Go back to when you
were eight years old within your elementary school years. Say you were
studying an uninteresting subject like the history of hay staking or
how barrels of organized. When you find yourself board in that subject,
what do you do? Your mind will wonder somewhere that's more interesting
and cause you to conjure up characters and stories that would more
fascinating. 

When kids do it, it's likely going to be more crude, but you can't deny
that they try. The subjects in todays movie face one of their own
creations and the insanity it insures. 

I'll say now that I never read any of the Captain Underpants books even
as a kid, but I see them every time I walk into a Barnes & Noble, so
you can take that their popular. I figured that they were about goofy
characters, and Captain Underpants delivers that, but I was surprised
by how creative and funny this was.

Within the Jerome Horwitz Elementary School, forth-graders George Beard
(played by Kevin hart) and Harold Hutchins (played by Thomas
Middleditch) are the class clowns to do everything to make the rest of
the students happy. They also make up their own comic series called
"Captain Underpants". Though their pranks are harmless, their cruel
principal Benjamin Krupp (played by Ed Helms) despises them and seems
to only be happy when the children of his school are expressionless
drones. When the pranks prove too much for Mr. Krupp, he reveals that
he's going to place the boys in separate classes. In response, George
accidentally hypnotizes their principal with a Cracker Jack ring. 

The boys set up Mr. Krupp's mind so that whenever fingers are snapped,
he becomes Captain Underpants. Though the new superhero alter ego
proves to be nicer and funnier to the kids, he's also under the
delusion that he has powers, causing to boys to follow him everywhere
to make sure he doesn't get hurt. Not only does this reveal how sad Mr.
Krupp's life is outside the school, but he accidentally hires a new
science teacher Mr. PP (played by Nick Kroll) who wants to rid the
world of laughter. Can the boys find a way to stop him and keep Captain
Underpants in control?

With a name like Captain Underpants, of course your going to get a very
silly story with juvenile names and occasional potty humor. I can tell
you now that it's aware of that and fully embraces it to its advantage.
The movie keeps up its child-like tone to a point where I was laughing
along with the kids in my theater. While there are the immature jokes
you'd expect, a lot of jokes are genuinely funny and address the stress
that kids, and even teachers go through within their daily lives.

I think what made this work were the voice actors. At first I thought
it was odd to have big name celebrities voice kids rather then just
having child actors, until I realized that the level of speed needed to
get to the fast pace seems to suit Kevin Hart and Thomas Middleditch
better. Ed Helms does well as both Captain Underpants and Principal
Krupp, as they keep switching him back and forth to give us a manic,
but fun performance. Even Nick Kroll, who is definitely goofy as a mad
scientist, does get a moment about his backstory, that made you
somewhat sympathetic to him (though how could you not laugh at a name
like Professor Poopypants?).

You may notice that Captain Underpants has a similar animation style to
the Peanuts Movie, where despite being computer animated, has a look
that resembles the flat, hand-drawn feel. I enjoy that, as it only
gives more variety to the animation offerings we have. It seems to
resemble the illustrations from the book (which we also get in various
parts in the movie) without trying to make things to close to real
life.

I'll give this eight Captain Underpants books out of ten. While it's
not a great movie, I can't imagine what great things you could do with
this subject. It's silly and fun; sometimes that's alright as long as
it's done well. If you look at the film and only see it as too
juvenile, it's unlikely you'll like this. It knows that kids are going
to be ones to enjoy this the most, but even this understands that all
adults were children at some point. If you can accept that a silly idea
can go with itself all the way through, then put on some underpants,
and probably some pants over that, and give it a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
*Minor Spoilers Ahead* George (Kevin Hart) and Harold (Thomas
Middleditch) are two elementary school kids that write and animate
comic books in their tree house. Their favourite character is Captain
Underpants and we get an introduction to his comic origin in the
beginning. Moving back to George and Harold, their friendship is as
close as it gets and they spend their days making these comics and
pulling pranks on the faculty. To any adult looking in, they're a pain
to deal with but they bring life to their dull and dreary environment.
Principal Krupp (Ed Helms) definitely is in the camp that believes that
these two are a menace and he makes it his goal to put an end to their
shenanigans. He's unable to catch them in the act so he has to endure
their constant misadventures until the school tattletale Milton (Jordan
Peele) records them messing with his project for the science fair.
Krupp sees this as the opportunity to move them into separate classes,
effectively destroying their friendship. There's little hope but in an
act of desperation, George tries to hypnotize Krupp using a Hypno-Ring
that he found in his cereal. Against all the odds, it actually works
and he falls under their command. They come up with the idea to turn
him into Captain Underpants. It works but Krupp gallops out of the
office to fight evil with George and Harold running behind him trying
to get a handle on the situation.

I got a chance to read a few of the books when I was younger and while
they're very much geared towards kids, the books were pretty funny and
surprisingly creative. To my surprise, they change the story around a
little but Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie is very faithful to
Dave Pilkey's work. The characters all have the same spirit, the
message of the books carry over and perhaps most importantly, the movie
shares the same adventurous sense of humour. I was laughing constantly
in this movie despite being an adult and most of the kids in the
theatre were laughing along with me. The movie has a very fast pace and
the jokes are firing at a mile a minute clip. On the downside though,
although I thought this was one of the funniest animated movies I've
seen in a while, it is definitely more geared towards kids. There's a
lot of potty humour and while they pay respect to the Captain
Underpants books by including so much of it, there's only so many times
you can laugh at Professor Poopypants as an adult. I was familiar with
the material so I knew what to expect but to the uninitiated it might
be a tad jarring. Some great kids movies include some jokes to tide the
adults over, this movie has some meta humour but there's not as much as
I would have liked.

While the plot of the movie is pretty simple and it's carried by the
comedy, the animation is awesome. Dreamworks really did a great job of
following the art style of the books but presenting a great looking
movie. It reminded me a lot of the Peanuts Movie that was put out by
Blue Sky Studio in 2015 (I mean that as a big compliment). It's hard to
find a balance between calling back to the source yet compete in a
crowded big budget animated movie market. Dreamworks normally deliver
solid entertainment but I was pretty blown away by what they
accomplished with this property.

Looking at the voice acting talent, you've got some big names filling
these roles which is typical of Dreamworks. I wasn't sure that Kevin
Hart and Thomas Middleditch would work given that their characters are
supposed to be kids. But they were both really good and they both
flawlessly delivered the jokes yet brought warmth to their characters.
Ed Helms was impressive as Principal Krupp/Captain Underpants. I
wouldn't have though he'd be a talented voice actor but he definitely
got the job done. Nick Kroll is fresh off Sausage Party and after this
I think he's definitely becoming an authority in this area. Jordan
Peele and Kristen Schaal round out a solid voice cast and they were
good in their supportive roles.

I think my favourite part of this movie was the fact that it wasn't
afraid to be really weird. They don't just stick to conventional
animation or conventional storytelling. We get portions of the story
told through George and Harold's comics, sock puppets and regular
puppets. They have different animation asides and they even incorporate
one of my favourite parts of the books in something that was completely
unexpected (I can't spoil what). They also have parts where they break
4th wall and explain things to the audience directly. I loved those
aspects of Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie and it helped make
things different and memorable.

This movie won't be everyone's favourite movie and I can completely
understand that. This is going to work for kids and adults who remember
these books but this movie also puts in way more effort than it had to.
The movie even has a decent message of friendship and trying to look at
issues from different sides. This isn't Dreamworks best movie (I would
still give that to the original How to Train Your Dragon) but I would
put among their best movies ever. If you're a fan of Captain Underpants
you're going to love this and I think you'll get enough out of this
that it won't be a pain to see this with the kids.
<|_=00=_|>
This has been a huge week for "Wonder Woman", as it set a record for a
female-directed movie with over $100,000,000 at the box office.
However, in all the excitement over this film there is another
superhero movie that debuted as well that deserves our attention as
well"Captain Underpants"! And, after having seen both films, I have to
admit that I enjoyed watching "Captain Underpants" more because it is
something few superhero movies are these days.it's fun! Please
understand meI am not saying it's necessarily better. However, it is a
lot of fun and lightheartedthings you'd almost never associate with
today's very dark superhero filmsand reasons you might not want to
take kids to see most of the pictures in this genre.

In order to enjoy the Captain Underpants movie it sure helps if you are
a childor if you are a bit childish. My daughters grew up reading the
Captain Underpants books and Dav Pilkey's character certainly has been
a hit among kids. Why do kids love Captain Underpants? Well, it's
everything serious literature is notit's filled with potty humor, bad
jokes and silliness because Pilkey wrote and illustrated the books as
if they were really created by mischievous childrenthe same George and
Harold who are the stars of the film. And, having been a middle school
teacher as well as a man who adamantly refuses to grow up, I had a
wonderful time seeing it with my 22 year-old daughterwho also loved
the movie.

The story begins with George and Harold being called into their very
grouchy principal's office. As usual, they are up to no good and as
usual the mirthless man is about to throw the book at the boys sending
them to separate classroomswhich is horrible since they are best
friends. However, in desperation, George tries out his cheap hypno-
ring he got in a cereal box and amazingly it worksturning the
principal into the boys' slave. They decide to make him become Captain
Underpantsthe hero in the comic book the boys have created. And, like
this character, the principal begins running around town fighting
crime.in his underwear! Little do the boys realize that they'll need
his help when the evil Professor Poopypants arrives with his latest
weapon!

OkayI'll admit this does not sound like Shakespeare or Jane Austin.
You've got Professor Poopypants, comments about Uranus and fart jokes.
But these are exactly what kids really loveand I heard lots of kids
laughing throughout the movie. And, even though I am supposed to be
sophisticated and above all this, I found myself laughing too.

I also appreciate how the Canadian team who made the film managed to
capture the look, style and spirit of the Captain Underpants books.
While the CGI is not the most complicated I've ever seen, it matches
the characters perfectlyand even offers a cute added sock puppet show!
Funny, well written and a lot of fun, this is NOT a good date night
movie but a perfect film if you've got kids (young or even grown like
mine) who grew up with Pilkey's creation. Not to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
When I decided to watch this with my movie theatre-working friend, I
didn't really know much of what it was about other than it was based on
some books I never read and that it had a satirical bent concerning
superheros and kids' imagination in creating them. George and Harold
are a couple of pre-teen boys who love comics to the point of creating
the title character mentioned above. But the principal at their school
has had enough of their pranks and resolves to separate them by having
them in different classes. I'll stop there and just say this was quite
funny and maybe a bit touching in how some things get resolved. But the
fact the fourth wall is often broken seems a sure sign that nothing is
meant to be taken seriously. My friend had seen this before and liked
it enough to let me watch it with him. It really tickled my funny bone,
that's for sure! So on that note, I-and he-highly recommend Captain
Underpants: The First Epic Movie.
