
This movie is about a man who has given up hope on achieving his dreams
and is trying to make his pain stop by engaging in self destructive
behavior... his weapon of choice is gambling but he is not a gambler.
He says so multiple times. I have read the many negative reviews of
this movie and I think people are really just missing the point. He
wants a real love and something real to do every day and if he achieve
anything beyond mediocrity then he would rather be dead. People who can
relate with that sentiment will love this movie but perhaps no one
else. If you enjoy a movie that makes you think a little and go beyond
what's on the surface. The movie is not about gambling... it is about
finding inspiration and hope.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes this is a gambling film and includes just about every clich√© you
can think of. No it isn't any good.

Yes Mark Wahlberg plays a gambler. No he doesn't hit, shoot, stab, or
otherwise assault anyone.

Yes the film has several excellent co-stars like George Kennedy, Andre
Braugher, and Richard Schiff. No you won't see very much of them and if
you sneeze you may miss them.

Yes there is some romance. No it doesn't work with a girl who is half
Wahlberg's age.

Yes it's great to see John Goodman in a meaty role. No he isn't going
to play Jabba the Hut in the next Star Wars release.

Yes I did stay for the entire movie hoping that the final scene would
somehow raise the stature of the film. No it didn't.
<|_=00=_|>
The Gambler was a difficult film to rate. It was a movie that not
everyone is going to like because not everyone is going to relate to
Mark Wahlberg's character. It was a hard movie to understand. After
seeing this movie you will either love it or hate it. There is really
no in between. You really had to connect with the main character and
his personality, and that's not possible for everyone. I really enjoyed
the film because i really connected with it, but that is not going to
be the case for everyone. I would highly recommend seeing it just to
take the chance of loving it. Just like the gambling theme of the
movie, seeing the movie will be a gamble for you.
<|_=00=_|>
The Gambler was not at all what I expected. Full disclosure - I was not
(and still am not) familiar with the original film and the premise of
it. I went in with basic ideas based off of the previews that I saw.

The movie is slow, lacks character development, and is just...boring.

Wahlberg's character wears on you quickly. How am I supposed to be
interested in a character who goes through life so disinterested and
not giving an f*** about anything? It would have been much more fitting
for one of the "bad guys" to off him and put him out of his misery.

And the "bad guys" in this movie could not be less intimidating.
There's no dread/drama/anticipation when Jim goes to meet any of them.
You just *know* that nothing is actually going to happen.

That being said, the only aspect of this movie I enjoyed was John
Goodman's character. As mentioned in another review, his "F*** You
Money" monologue is brilliant. His character actually has some depth
and good dialogue.

Overall, I was very disappointed in this film. No character
development, no suspense, no emotion. No thanks.
<|_=00=_|>
The Gambler tells the story of Jim Bennett, a college professor with a
dangerous and self destructive addiction to gambling at underground
casinos in the underbelly of Los Angeles. His addiction soon begins to
effect his professional and personal life to severe and deadly
consequences. The Gambler features great performances from Mark
Wahlberg and Jessica Lange along with flashy and stylish direction from
Rupert Wyatt. Much like the 1974 original, The Gambler is very much so
a character study. We see Wahlberg's Jim Bennett in every scene, and
see him make every bet, lose every hand and blow every dollar without
shying away from Wahlberg. This is a new, transformed and extremely
mature performance from Mark Wahlberg. He is in top form here,
delivering a career best performance along with the physicality of a
twig. It is certainly a better portrayal of a teacher than what we see
in 2008's horrendous misfire The Happening. When we see Wahlberg in The
Gambler he loses himself in long monologues that never once will make
you question his validity in this part. The supporting cast features
Brie Larson, Jessica Lange and John Goodman. Each give amazing
performances, especially Goodman who steals some scenes from Wahlberg
with colorful monologues filled with expletives and subtext that is
classic William Monohan but it does grow tiring after awhile. The
screenplay written by Oscar winner William Monohan is far from a
perfect script but it is very interesting and keeps your attention. It
doesn't pack the punch The Departed did, but it gets the job done.
Rupert Wyatt proves that not only can he do a big budget action
spectacle as Rise of the Planet of the Apes but he can also deliver
hard hitting drama. My only issue was that Martin Scorsese is such a
huge influence here in filmmaking style that you start to wonder what
it would be like if Wyatt just stuck to his own style instead of trying
to capture something that is clearly above his talent because it does
backfire on multiple occasions especially during its Hollywood-fueled
finale. For a film as dark as The Gambler, the ending just simply
doesn't fit and feels more like a studio ending rather than something
that would be true to the film and true to the original vibe of it all.
Overall, The Gambler is a fitting remake that fails to capture the
essence of the original but displays Mark Wahlberg in a career changing
performance that shouldn't be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
The seedy underworlds that are often associated with gambling and the
mafia are worlds that loan themselves to film, for they breed certain
characters, themes, and ideas that simply captivate, and provide
audiences with ideas as to how a subculture operates. Having said that,
it's a shame in the last few years, we've gotten a small, mediocre
array of these films when the genre used to be dominated by the likes
of people like Martin Scorsese, Al Pacino, and Robert De Niro, who knew
how to create arresting films based off the mob. With Rupert Wyatt's
The Gambler, a remake of the James Caan film of the same name coming at
the end of the year following a recent trailer release like the film's
release was an afterthought, we get another middling effort to showcase
strong acting talent but mediocre-to-average screen writing as we watch
a captivating idea be squandered by a bloated yet underdeveloped plot.

Mark Wahlberg plays Jim Bennett, a literature professor and a gambling
addict, who doesn't know the meaning of quitting when he is up. Bennett
rolls away at his odds until he is completely out of money, losing
whatever winnings he accumulated and then some. He is in debt to
numerous loan sharks, one of which Neville Baraka (Michael K.
Williams), who, along with a Korean loan shark, informs him he has
seven days to pay back a $240,000 debt or else he is whacked. Jim looks
toward Frank (John Goodman), a ruthless, but almost philosophical man,
who proposes to loan him the money but fears of his ability, or lack
thereof, to compensate him on his investment. Meanwhile, Jim tries to
keep it together in the classroom, as he stands before a group of
clearly disinterested men and women, who aren't in the classroom to
learn anymore than he is in there to teach. However, he takes a liking
to Amy (Brie Larson), one of his students who shows great potential in
writing. When discussing the idea of following one's dreams as a writer
in class, he informs the remainder of his students that, "if you're not
a genius, don't even bother." 

Jim's thoughtless cynicism and complete disregard for his own life,
without the merit or humor or any cogent philosophy or backstory, robs
him of any ability to even be a tolerable anti-hero. He's a miserable
character, with the only bonus of being played by Wahlberg, one of the
finest leading actors working today, who communicates Jim's moroseness
nicely throughout the film. Wahlberg is surrounded by other performers,
who work equally well at matching his level of conviction, specifically
Goodman, whose few scenes in the film amount to greatness in a
predictable yet pleasant manner. Goodman delivers a great monologue
about the luxury of having "f*** you money," which he estimates to be
about $2.5 million. With that net worth, you don't need to take orders
from anyone, and if anyone angers you, you can give them the old
seven-letter phrase with great effect.

Wahlberg and Goodman are great fun to watch because they've played
these kind of wayward characters in prior films, so they know the
landscape and the material is fresh in their heads. However,
screenwriter William Monahan (who also wrote Scorsese's Departed)
threatens to lose control of the project when he writes in multiple
different characters and several subplots, not developing enough to
reach the level where we care about them. We already have an unlikable
main character, and we can't rely on much of the cast to feed our
desire to find someone we can at least sympathize with, so all we have
is Jim and some bookies-turned-philosophers when the screenplay calls
for it to supply character interest. Even the love story Monahan tries
to concoct doesn't work, and at that point, we are essentially watching
a collection of an interesting parts struggling to find something to
work with while masquerading in a backdrop of strong cinematography by
Greig Fraser (who also did this year's Foxcatcher, along with Zero Dark
Thirty) and some well-executed musical cues that emphasize rather than
embellish key moments.

The Gambler, as a whole, however, doesn't work because despite the high
stakes and the large risk factor, we see the carelessness and the
disinterest of our main character run so freely throughout the film,
that we ask ourselves why we should care that this man is seven days
away from a grisly demise. We can appreciate the actors, the way the
setting is presented, and the music we're provided with to a certain
degree, but when it comes time to dive into these characters, their
motivations, and their will to live, they have very little, so why are
we watching their lazy contentment with such a dour existence?

Starring: Mark Wahlberg, John Goodman, Michael K. Williams, and Brie
Larson. Directed by: Rupert Wyatt.
<|_=00=_|>
I have read few unfavourable reviews about The Gambler mostly saying
the film is not gripping enough. I disagree. At no stage did i lose
interest in what was going on and i thought the tension was palpable at
times. A really good leading performance from Mark Wahlberg and it's
good to see Michael Kenneth Williams ( Omar Little from The Wire ) in a
big role. If i had to be picky i would say that the three people who
Jim owed money to could have been a little bit more menacing and the
ending is a little bit confusing ( or that could just be me ! ).
Overall though an entertaining , enjoyable movie which also has a great
soundtrack.
<|_=00=_|>
Yesterday evening watched this movie and loved it, couldn't take my
eyes off. 

This is not a gambling movie, this is a movie on pain. Existential
pain. The character, Jim, played amazingly by Mark Wahlberg is the
essence of it.

Grown up in a rich family. Intelligent. Always been told he's the
smartest & talented person in the room. But deep inside he feels
mediocrity. Be is bored to the hilt. He doesn't f***ing care about
cars, money, his looks and even women anymore. 

This is a movie about feeling alive, taking risks in life, because
without a risk you're a mediocre bum, you are essentially dead. And
this is exactly how Jim is feeling. Everything he does is to escape
that, his flamboyant teaching, his gambling, his f*** you mentality.

Deep inside he feels he has to put it all on the line, everything, his
family, all his money, his life even. Doing this is the only thing that
can essentially set him free.

He's s stubborn and cocky f*** knowing that his only release is giving
everything up, be humiliated, be on the ground and that's the basis of
becoming a new and free man.

Coming down to the existential reason for self destruction, first we
need to burn everything down, before me can build a new city on top of
it.

This is his escape from his addiction, his ego & his depression. Life
is a high stakes game.

Perfectly done in a grim & tense setting. Loved it, very inspiring.
Thanks for making this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first ever IMDb review, but I felt compelled to write it.
I'm usually pretty partial to Wahlberg's movies, but this thing is just
awful. I get what the movie is about, the self loathing and self
destruction. The acting in this is just so flat, and boring and poorly
directed. The script is ridiculously bad. 

Wahlberg seems to think blurting out his poorly written dialog as fast
and as unintelligibly as possible equates to a convincing portrait of
an academic. It doesn't. He seems to think that acting bored equates to
the portrait of a deeply troubled self destructive man. It doesn't. 

Perhaps it improved dramatically after the hour mark, but I wouldn't
know. For the first time in what must be 2 years, I gave up on a film.
It was so terrible, not only did I fail to engage with any one of the
characters or any aspect of the story at all, I was actively hating it!
I could feel the movie literally vacuously and worthlessly sucking away
my time like the most boring vampire that ever existed. 

Bad script, woeful acting, weak direction, poor cinematography, weak
soundtrack. So yeah...um...I didn't like it much.
<|_=00=_|>
The dark 1974 movie "The Gambler", starring James Caan, I thought was
the definitive film about compulsive gambling. Although this modern
version gives credit to James Toback (writer of the 1974 movie), I'm
sorry to say I found this film to be beyond ridiculous, with incredibly
stilted and pretentious dialogue, as well as absurd characters and
situations.

I will say the acting, given to what they have to work with, is top
notch with Mark Wahlberg leading the way as Jim Bennett, an associate
professor of literature at a college. He comes from an extremely
wealthy family, but is a totally obnoxious, insulting jerk, who
seemingly has a "death wish" regarding his compulsive gambling.

Michael Kenneth Williams is also excellent as Neville Baraka, a loan
shark and gambler, while John Goodman gives his usual most solid
performance as Frank, another loan shark and mobster. Poor Brie Larson,
who has to play the role of Amy Phillips here. She's one of Jim's
students, and apparently a genius of a writer, but the more she sees
Jim destroying himself with his gambling she cluelessly becomes even
more attracted to him. Good luck with that!! 

To me, this was quite the disappointment from two talented filmmakers,
the director Rupert Wyatt (Rise of the Planet of the Apes, The
Escapist), and the writer William Monahan (The Departed).

All in all, I'm sorry to say I found this movie to be far inferior to
the 1970's classic, and a major disappointment for me.
