
When we last left our intrepid tiny blue friends, they had just . . .
oh, why bother explaining the plot of this film's predecessor, "The
Smurfs," when it's going to be difficult enough to write about this
sequel's ridiculous storyline? And, unless one is either under the age
of four or in a drug-induced coma, they are not likely to care an iota
about it anyway.

With Neil Patrick Harris ("A Very Harold & Kumar 3D Christmas," "How I
Met Your Mother" TV series) sleepwalking through his repeat role of
Patrick Winslow and Hank Azaria ("Lovelace") as the evil wizard
Gargamel - playing it so far over the top he falls off the other side -
adults are most likely to simply tag along with their tots only to
forget this one by the time they get home.

Like most sequels, "The Smurfs 2" does not live up to the original,
which in turn was never something worth living up to in the first
place. It does live longer, though, dragging on for nearly 105 minutes
(two minutes longer than the first go 'round and a death knell to an
animated feature like this one).

Here, as directed by Raja Gosnell (who has helmed such classics as
"Home Alone 3," and "Beverly Hills Chihuahua"), the Smurfs are happy
and healthy back in their quaint village.

Happy, except for the group's only female, Smurfette (voice of singer
Katy Perry), who's depressed because she thinks everyone forgot her
birthday (get used to it, kid). 

Meanwhile, Gargamel  who is now a big-time David Blaine-type
illusionist in the world of humans  is hatching a plot wherein he uses
his two gray Smurf-like minions, the tomboyish Vexy (voice of Christina
Ricci, "Black Snake Moan") and the idiotic Hackus (voice of J.B.
Smoove, "Hall Pass"), to kidnap Smurfette so he can extract her
essence, or something like that.

Unfortunately, once she is missing, Papa Smurf (voice of the late
Jonathan Winters, "The Smurfs," but I'd rather remember him from "It's
a Mad Mad Mad Mad World," among other better films) along with Grouchy
(voice of George Lopez, "Rio," and the guy who played a light bulb in
"Shark Boy and Lavagirl"), Clumsy (voice of Anton Yelchin, "Star Trek
Into Darkness") and Vanity (voice of John Oliver, "The Love Guru"),
locate Patrick and his family to help solve the mystery.

Turns out that Pat is an uptight parent entertaining equally snobbish
couples at his son's excruciatingly unfunny birthday party sequence
concerning - of all things hilarious - a small child with a peanut
allergy.

Discovering that Gargamel has a show in Paris, the group  with
nondescript tyke Blue (Jacob Tremblay) and gruff stepdad Victor
(Brendan Gleeson, "The Raven") in tow  whisks off to the City of
Lights with nary a jump cut. While there, Smurfette, who was evidently
created by the bad wizard becomes fast friends with Vexy and even
offers to share the secret formula that Papa used to turn her blue  a
concoction that will allow Gargamel to somehow rule the world.

Meanwhile, the three incompetent Smurfs try to save the day, while an
embarrassed Gleeson (much too good to be involved in an endeavor like
this) spends most of the picture flapping around as a poorly-CGIed
duck.

It's all about potions and magic and essences and fatherly love, all of
which are needed to keep the average person awake during all of this
nonsense. So-so effects, little or no pacing, a drag in the middle and
totally unnecessary 3D technology highlight the pointlessness of it
all.

Be aware that there is also a definite mean streak which runs through
the movie (Gargamel is willing to let his creations die and laughingly
tortures the captive Smurfs), as well as a complete lack of humor (or
anything close to that emotion), despite the fact that Azaria (who
voices about a dozen characters on "The Simpsons" TV show) does his
best with what little he is given.

So, like "Garfield: A Tail of Two Kitties," "Marmaduke," "Alvin and the
Chipmunks" and "Yogi Bear"  films which tried to incorporate CGI with
live action  "The Smurfs 2" comes up woefully short, leaving "Who
Framed Roger Rabbit" as the still clear-cut winner of the genre - and
that particular production is more than 25 years old.

So why not just buy, rent or record that picture, save a trip to the
cinema and call it a weekend. You would certainly be doing yourself -
or your children - no favors by seeing "The Smurfs 2."
<|_=00=_|>
I'm really puzzled by these reviews. Firstly, we have people saying
they hated the first film but this is even worse. Excuse me, but what
kind of stupid do you have to be to watch a sequel to a film you hated?
Then there's people who complain that the film is for children? But
hey, what did you expect? Well, I expected the worst, I never liked the
Smurfs and I'm old enough to remember that awful song from the 70s.
I've seen the McDonalds toys and I was prepared to hate this. But every
Sunday we take our children to see a movie for a pound and this is what
was on. I've seen Despicable Me 2, Turbo, Monsters University, Cloudy
with Meatballs 2 and the Rise of the Guardians over the last few weeks
on the same terms. I enjoyed those in varying degrees, but I wanted to
give this one a miss. But it's for the kids, not me, so I went along.
And I guess what, I actually enjoyed it.

There's no point me regurgitating the plot, but highlights for me were
Christina Ricci giving a bit of Wednesday to Vexy, the naughty sister
Smurf, the one-dimensional pantomime baddie (he's behind you!) and the
cat, which amused me if no-one else. The plot is not believable,
according to some. Yeah, and you sat though Despicable Me 2 and Cloudy
with Meatballs 2? The plot is consistent with the rules set for the
movie, just go with it. And if your children like it, what's not to
like for you?
<|_=00=_|>
There's no point in pulling punches here because, let's face it, these
movies are meant as a distraction for kids. The jokes are bad, the
acting is cheesy and the story isn't complicated. The whole point of
the first film was to be something that will dazzle children with jokes
only kids can laugh at and some brightly colored characters dancing
across the screen. The formula for this sequel doesn't change that.

The only real difference I saw in this one was that it looked like the
writers were trying to add a little more heart to the story by throwing
in heavy elements of belonging and family. Smurfette feels isolated
because of her lineage and doesn't feel like she belongs with the
Smurfs while Patrick's stepfather comes into play and feels he's being
pushed away from his stepson as he desperately tries to be a positive
and loving influence in his life. I honestly enjoyed this part of the
film but hated that it was surrounded with really bad jokes filled with
"blue" gags and using the word "smurf" so much that the joke lost all
its meaning in the first five minutes and acting that is gorged on
scenery to the point of indigestion.

Once again, this movie is intended to bring smiles to little kids who
still think boogers are the height of cuisine but, at least, the film
felt like it was trying to make some improvements and strides to make
this a better family film than the last one...also, the special effects
are still decent, so it has that going for it.

Hi! My name is Rev. Ron and I love movies! So much so that I write a
blog where I review whatever movie I am watching at the time. You can
read a more in-depth review of this film (and others) at
revronmovies.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
Having already seen Despicable me 2 And Monsters University, these
summer hols, I took my two kids to see Smurfs 2. I have to say, despite
any toffee nosed film critics who have panned this film, we thoroughly
enjoyed it. It was equally good, if not better than the two previously
mentioned films. The animation, especially the interaction between real
life and CGI was impressive. It was funny, fast-moving, and at times
emotional. Gargamel's performance was wonderful. Some of the visual
effects, such as the "Roue de Paris" coming of it's axle and rolling
through the streets of Paris were amazing. Ignore the film critics, go
there with your kids, and try and watch it through the eyes of a child
and enjoy. Great in 3D. We thought it was better than the previous
Smurfs movie.
<|_=00=_|>
'THE SMURFS 2': One and a Half Stars (Out of Five) 

Sequel to the 2011 hit kids' film based on the popular comic-book 
(which was later turned into a popular cartoon series in the 1980s) by 
Peyo (a Belgian comic-book artist) about little blue people that live 
in mushrooms. It once again stars Hank Azaria as the evil wizard 
Gargamel and Neil Patrick Harris as the Smurfs' human friend Patrick. 
It also features voices by Katy Perry, Jonathan Winters (who the film 
was dedicated to, due to his recent passing) and many others as Smurfs. 
The film was once again directed by Raja Gosnell and written by the 
same team of writers (with Karey Kirkpatrick joining the team). I'd say 
it's even worse than the first film in quality, especially since one of 
my favorite actresses (Sofia Vergara) didn't return this time around.

This film revolves around Gargamel (Azaria) kidnapping Smurfette 
(voiced by Perry), the only female Smurf (which he created), and taking 
her back to Paris with him. He needs Papa Smurf's formula for creating 
Smurfs (which Smurfette knows) so he can extract the Smurf-essence from 
them (which gives him his magical powers). The film introduces two bad 
Smurf-like critters that Gargamel also created. They're called 
Naughties named Vexy (voiced by Christina Ricci) and Hackus (voice by 
J. B. Smoove). The film also gives us a lot of Smurfette's back story 
and introduces us to Patrick's stepfather Victor (Brendan Gleeson) as 
well.

The first 'SMURFS' movie was bad and this one is even worse. The only 
thing I did like about the original movie was it co-starred Sofia 
Vergara (like I said) as a domineering antagonist (Patrick's boss). She 
was great and extremely sexy in it (like always) but the rest of the 
movie was a waste. Both films are pointless and about as dumbed down as 
kids' movies get. I did like the cartoon and comic books when I was a 
kid but I don't know if a quality live action film could really be 
developed from them. So I guess I can't complain too much. Still this 
movie, like the first, is a waste of time. Kids might like it though.

<|_=00=_|>
The Smurfs 2 continues with the adventures of the adorable blue
creatures called, Smurfs. When Smurfette(Katy Perry) assumes that the
rest of the Smurfs have forgotten her birthday, she's very depressed &
wanders off alone. She thinks that she's not a true blue Smurf as she
was originally a Naughty created by the evil wizard, Gargamel(Hank
Azaria). Meanwhile Gargamel hatches an evil plot to kidnap Smurfette &
get her to tell the formula to turn two of his Naughties,
Vexy(Christina Ricci) & Hackus(J.B Smoove) into real Smurfs. Vexy
enters the portal to Smurf village, kidnaps Smurfette & takes her back
to Earth. Now,it is up to Papa(Jonathan Winters), Grouchy(George
Lopez), Clumsy(Anton Yelchin) & Vanity(John Oliver) to rescue Smurfette
from Gargamel before he coerces her to give him the formula. The Smurfs
seek the help of their friends, Patrick(Neil Patrick Harris) his wife,
Grace(Jayma Mays) & Patrick's step-dad Victor(Brendan Gleeson). 

The Smurfs 2 was lots of fun! I can't believe it has such a low rating
on IMDb. It's not supposed to be the best film ever. It's just a cute
movie about love, friendship, the importance of family & how they will
always be by your side. Looking at the morals the film teaches you,
it's a perfect weekend outing with your family & a perfect popcorn
movie for everyone who wants to watch it alone. The fusion between
live-action & animation is enchanting. The 3D is flawless. The entire
movie is filled with eye popping 3D effects. The best scene in the film
for me is when, Smurfette & the Naughties are flying around Paris. Mind
blowing visual effects & animation. Hank Azaria is the standout
performer as the bumbling wizard, Gargamel. Neil Patrick Harris is
great as Patrick. Jayma Mays is impressive as Grace. Brendan Gleeson is
hilarious as Victor. Katy Perry, Christina Ricci, Jonathan Winters,
Anton Yelchin, George Lopez, John Oliver & J.B Smoove are perfect as
Smurfette, Vexy, Papa, Clumsy, Grouchy, Vanity & Hackus respectively.
The gags are a little childish but, it is a comedy for kids, not
adults. All in all, The Smurfs 2 is loads of fun & is worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
So the first Smurfs movie was better. But this one has more than it's
fair share of moments too. Is it predictable? Yes! But does it have a
coherent theme running through it concerning parent hood and moral
message that might be a bit hammered into our heads? Yes, though it's
still acceptable and doesn't overdo it.

The movie is aimed at kids and while Pixar has shown us you can do that
without forgetting about the parents/adults, this doesn't mean every
animated movie has to be like that. There can and should be movies like
Smurfs too. The success was there, but the rating suggest that many
people might have watched under duress or being forced to. It's
unfortunate if you couldn't enjoy some nice little family
entertainment. I'm a cynic too, but I could relax with this. It's
really not that bad
<|_=00=_|>
While I have seen a fair number of kids movies over my time (having
three children), I, like one of the other reviewers, found the movie
boring and did not enjoy. However, my 8 year old really enjoyed it and
said we have to buy that movie. I had not seen the prequel to this
movie, but it would probably not have improved my review. I did not
think the actors were great. Having seen Brendan Gleeson in different
roles, it was unusual to see him playing this character and he seemed
way out of place. The movie had some touching scenes that step-parents
and step children will appreciate. I thought some of the effects were
over the top but I guess the movie is aimed mostly to entertain
children.
<|_=00=_|>
Gargamel (Hank Azaria) is now a world famous magician. He has created
two darker version of Smurfs called Naughties named Vexy and Hackus.
Meanwhile Smurfette has doubts about her personality since she was
originally created by Gargamel. Papa Smurf had changed her from a
Naughtie to a Smurf with a secret spell. Gargamel needs that spell to
create real Smurfs to harness the powerful Smurf essence. Gargamel
sends Vexy to kidnap Smurfette. Papa Smurf and others return to the
real world to rescue Smurfette with the help of Patrick (Neil Patrick
Harris), Grace (Jayma Mays) and Victor (Brendan Gleeson).

It's marginally better than the first movie. I like that evil Gargamel
is driving the story. Hank Azaria is a good Gargamel. I still wouldn't
recommend this for anybody other than little kids. Also I'm not sure
why Brendan Gleeson is in this. I would have thought they would add a
broad comedian for comic relief instead and then they turn him into a
duck. I still wish the Smurfs stay in the forest. They could make it a
magical forest. The real world somehow diminishes them not just because
of their size.
<|_=00=_|>
The success of the first live animation Smurfs film obviously meant a
sequel in the works to cash in. This was playing over and over and my
kids grooved on its repeated viewings. Sufficed to say, I was actually
off today and tuned in and out to it over the four or so times it was
on.

Smurfette was once a creation of Gargamel's (Hank Azaria, having such a
good time), and thanks to Papa Smurf (and his convenient magic), she
was rescued from a life of pure evil. Turned blue and provided a new
lease on life, Smurfette insulated herself within the Smurf society. Of
course, the two films felt the need to transplant the Smurfs into the
alternate world of us humans, and so they met Neil Patrick Harris and
Jayma Mayes in The Big City. At first, the Smurfs caused much
aggravation, annoyance, and trouble, but soon were welcomed and loved
by their human friends. In the sequel, Harris and Mayes, married and
celebrating a birthday with their son, named Blue (after their Smurf
friends), join forces with Papa Smurf and his "B-Team" (his typical
team of Brainy and Hefty got left behind when a choking incident caused
created "travel crystals" to fall into the mouths of others) to rescue
Gargamel-captured Smurfette.

Equipped with a specially made sword by Gargamel in an attempt to seize
her affections, and often told of how she is his daughter, Smurfette
finds herself under much pressure to determine where she belongswith
him or the Smurfs. Who is her true family? Gargamel, of course, desires
the magic spell used by Papa to turn her blue in a grand diabolical
plan towait for ittake over the planet and have us grovel to him.

With the likes of the late Jonathan Winters (that marvelous voice and
face produced a lot of laughs, but I remember him best in the Twilight
Zone episode, opposite Jack Klugman, in A Game of Pool), Katy Perry,
Christina Ricci, George Lopez, Anton Yelchin, Fred Armisen and Jeff
Foxworthy as the voices of the Smurfs, and use of our world (most of
the setting is Paris) as a backdrop for them (the Smurf village is also
given some significant screen time as the Smurfs are planning
Smurfette's birthday party), there's prime entertainment value
formostly kids, and a few adults. Watching it, I can't really say this
was aimed for too much of an adult audience, but is a perfectly fine
family film. It even provides Brendan Gleeson a rare comedic role as
Harris' stepdad; Gleeson has one of those fun-loving, energetic
characters that Harris is embarrassed by because of his jovial behavior
and scenery chewing. Eventually Gleeson is involved in the Smurfette
rescue, turned into a duck (!) at one point by Gargamel. Gargamel's
shtick involves popular magic shows in theatrical settings to much
fanfare, but he has that evil itch to cause very bad things. Gargamel
creates two new "anti-Smurfs" (Ricci and JB Smooth) to help him
"indoctrinate" Smurfette, and achieve his masterplan. But those Smurfs
soon kindle a friendship with Smurfette which throws a monkey wrench in
Gargamel's plans. As much as computer-generated Smurfs might have me
longing to watch the old cartoon (not *that* much but close), this is
the way it is so I'm not about to go on a belly-aching old fart rant
about taking beloved characters that were popular when I was a kid and
cosmetically re-envisioning them for today's audience. It is what it
is. Azaria, fully immersed in his evil wizard role with rat-like teeth,
doesn't have a subtle bone in his portrayal.
