
It's just depressing for a movie lover like me to see a film like Joel
Schumacher's 1990 Flatliners remade. Why? Can anyone come out with
something we haven't seen before or at least from a fresh new POV.
Somebody told me that my reaction is "generational" - I fear that's
true. It makes me feel really old. I almost walked out of Mother!, the
other day - something I've never done - because I felt treated like a
moron. To steal from Robert Polanski to do what, what? Here is even
worse. They're stealing from Joel Schumacher without having any of
the...what was it that the 1990 had that this one hasn't? Well let's
say that the first one wasn't a remake. Where are the mavericks? The
new ones. The ones I love are in their 70's or gone. I do apologize I'm
just venting my frustration. Thank you for indulging me.
<|_=00=_|>
When it comes to remaking a movie, I'm all for it if it means that
they're going to try and make a better movie out of something that
wasn't all that impressive to begin with. That being said, if the
original film was already solid or decently received by both audiences
and critics, then why bother? Flatliners was a film that was released
back in 1990, and I quite enjoy that film, even though the overall
product has many issues of its own. I didn't see the reason for a
remake, but I could see potential in improving it, so I was
open-minded. Sadly, Flatliners is one of the worst films I've seen all
year. Taking a solid premise and putting a supernatural spin on it for
absolutely no apparent reason, bothered me to no end. Here is why
Flatliners fails as both a remake and as an original piece to be shown
to a new audience. 

The idea of doctors being capable of flatlining people and bringing
them back to life, being able to have conversations about what death is
like and going through hallucinations as a side effect is quite
interesting; However, this version of the film becomes a supernatural
thriller by the time it reaches its third act, making for a very
confusing film, due to the fact that there is clearly no physical
entity that could ever accomplish these things. This version of this
concept just strips away anything that was exciting or intriguing about
the original film. Not to compare and contrast, but idea of Flatliners
definitely benefits from a more subdued and subtle approach to things. 

What bothered me was the fact that the majority of the cast seemed
capable of being subdued, but the film's screenplay was such a mess
that I found myself thinking these actors/actresses deserved better
material. In particular, Diego Luna and Ellen Page were actually very
good in their respective roles, making for a few emotionally resonant
moments, even though the lines they were given were pretty lame. Quite
honestly, with a better script, a title change, and a bit of
originality, this cast could've worked in a much better movie. 

Even though the performances are all decent, the fact that this cast
was a bunch of youngsters actually annoyed me. The original film was
about a group of experienced doctors who had a neat idea, and were much
more capable of being able to bring each other back to life. This time
around, it's a group of students who have just enough knowledge in
maybe being able to bring each other back. This notion alone was a
scripting mistake, because it just becomes a story about naive young
students who become obsessed with someone's experiment. I found no
attachment to any of these characters and none of them really had a
reason for wanting to die (with the exception of one or two without
spoiling anything), which left me not caring from frame one. 

In the end, this film benefits from a strong enough cast (for the most
part) and the concept itself is very interesting, but all you have to
do is watch the original to see how it should be done. This film tries
too many new things, and quite frankly fails at pretty much all of
them. Having terrible dialogue, an unnecessary supernatural turn of
events, and a climax that turns into a straight up horror flick, I
found myself not caring what the outcome for each of the characters
would be. The only thing redeemable about this film is the premise
itself, which has been done better in the past, so I can't recommend
this movie to anyone, but I do recommend checking out the original
Flatliners if you haven't seen it yet.
<|_=00=_|>
The 1990 original ( original ? haha) was not as good as we think we
remember.At a time when the cinema needs to refresh itself and stop
reworking old stale ideas..we get this ...utterly pointless.

Bad screen writing here..less than 1 dimensional at best and the acting
is pretty atrocious in all honesty. The first 5 minutes made me wonder
if it was gonna be any good...I could not foresee a movie go downhill
so quickly...the ending was so daft I could hear people saying "What"?
in the theatre.

Not even the addition of Keifer Sutherland could make this any less
silly. Direction was lame and lazy...I get the idea they thought they
were going to cash in..I also get the idea they are very much mistaken.

Rush release on DVD I would think to cash in before people catch on how
bad it is. The story is really , really silly with enough plot holes to
take the wind out the story. 

Bad at best gave it a 3 because I'm in a good mood.
<|_=00=_|>
Look, a lot of remakes or reboots or whatever you want to call them
(Rebooquel sounds like something that might come from outer space so
the less said the better), they are the same because they are based on
the foundations of either good or great films - sometimes they can be
something else that is interesting, but with the rare exceptions they
don't improve on the originals. Flatliners had the potential, however,
to be something more since the 1990 Joel Schumacher film was not very
good, though it certainly had its ambitions and young stars who were
game for a Frankenstein-cum-Elm-Street premise. The saddest thing is
the remake does nothing visually to distinguish itself, and more
infuriatingly does diddly squat at the script level to find new ideas
for its premise.

Think about it: you can get someone to use some medical equipment to
stop your heart, wait for a minute or two (or more!) while you are
dead, and then can resurrect you so one can see what you went through
while in that almost-all-gone phase of deadness. Is there a "light" at
the end of the tunnel, or anything else? That's the meat that the 1990
Flatliners hung itself on, and while the script was mostly
(surprisingly) under-cooked, in Schumacher there were no lack of off
the wall visual ideas and the production design was off-balance, but it
was certainly never boring. The 2017 Flatliners from the Swedish
"Dragon Tattoo" director Oprev (and written by, of all people, the guy
who scripted Source Code) is not interesting visually or striking in
any way. This has the visual panache of tax attorney.

There is also some major mistaking going on at the casting level; at
the least when you had that movie back in the 90's, you had that cast
who had charisma to burn and could play off each other well (Oliver
Platt had something to prove, man!) Here, with the exception of Ellen
Page, no one is really bringing anything to the table and what the
filmmakers have them do through the run time is either run-of-the-mill
in terms of the story, or they kill off the *one* character that could
keep us engaged with the material. Oh, and Keifer Sutherland shows up
as discount House, MD, and what COULD be a connection to the original
film - is this a sequel, may-hap - never materializes, making it simply
an easy paycheck.

Why was this made if not a chance to explore some narrative or visual
possibilities in the genre? Why not make it scary and push the R rating
(this is PG-13) for audiences who are ready for a dark, suspenseful
psychological thriller where young medical students who should know
better have to grapple with the bad s*** they've done? This Flatliners
isn't interested in that, either, and each character (Page included,
and I don't count Diego Luna as he's the one who doesn't go for the
flatlilining, and all we know about him is he's an ex-fireman, so who
cares) has one note and only one trauma they have to re-experience in
their half-hallucination-half-real state. The flaws from the original
are not corrected, and the laziness amplifies it all. Not to mention at
110 minutes this feels punishingly long, and when the aforementioned
character is out of the picture there's another half hour to go that
feels like FIVE hours.

This is bland, stale, overheated garbage that made me literally BOO in
my seat once it was done, not for anyone in particular in the theater,
just because I could do it. It's one thing to get a remake that
disappoints simply for existing (i.e. Ghostbusters last year), but it's
another when you see what could have been in the hands of a twisted,
hungry auteur out to show some shocking things - picture, for example,
Tarsem circa The Cell, or Leos Carax or something - or a filmmaker who
might want to just use the material for a straight drama and not go for
the horror, which could also be done. Instead, Flatliners is stupid
when it's not dull, and yet it's not stupid often enough to be an
overall enjoyably bad movie (I did laugh here and there, but too little
and too late). It's everything that is wrong with what SONY is
currently doing in an overlong 110 minute package.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the already poor IMDb rating for this movie, I thought I'd
still give it a go as I was a bit of a fan of the original. Boy,
disappointment is an understatement.

It started off well enough, but the writer / director must've lost the
plot somewhere.. 'Good Movie Scripts 101' tells me that if you have a
significant event at the start of the movie, surely you don't just kill
off this main character after you've developed the story around her
right? It's just a recipe for disaster... unless you're Game of
Thrones. Perhaps they were trying to give the audience some shock value
or an element of surprise, but this has backfired completely in my
opinion.

Somehow, another character (who really didn't have much of a background
story) became the protagonist. The moral of the story became something
about you shouldn't lie on an autopsy report. Really??!! Wouldn't it
have been more relevant if the tragic loss at the beginning of the
movie somehow tied into the ending, like uniting the 2 sisters that
appeared to be key characters... until they weren't. The message of
forgiving yourself would resonate a lot more with the audience this way
I'm sure.

Oh, and don't get me started about why they brought Kiefer Sutherland
into the movie and did absolutely nothing with his character.

Perhaps the plot wasn't so important, after all, it feels more like
just another not-so-scary teen flick, but if it was meant to be
something more, it well and truly flatlined... sometimes you just need
to stick with the formula that works.
<|_=00=_|>
Terrible. Acting was OK but bordered on comical. Not scary at all and
second part was a bit loose.

Could have been darker with more urgency but flapped around quite a
bit. The ending was boring as hell and didn't seem to convey anything. 

Should've got to see Kingsman instead.
<|_=00=_|>
What started off as potentially a great film, suddenly turned into a
complete boring mess. While going in a different direction to the
1990's version, I don't think the creators knew exactly what that
direction was as it seemed to jump all over the place. While I giggled
at certain ridiculous moments, the rest was spent thinking what exactly
is going on? Ellen Page's performance was okay but I think the movie
itself squashed what could have been a great acting role.
<|_=00=_|>
The movies have depicted the hereafter in varied ways over the years.
From the bleached white warehouses of Powell and Pressburger's "A
Matter of Life and Death" in 1946 and Warren Beatty's "Heaven Can Wait"
in 1978 to  for me  the peak of the game: Vincent Ward's mawkish but
gorgeously rendered oil-paint version of heaven in 1998's "What Dreams
May Come". Joel Schmacher's 1990's "Flatliners" saw a set of "brat
pack" movie names of the day (including Kevin Bacon, Julia Roberts,
William Baldwin and Kiefer Sutherland) as experimenting trainee
doctors, cheating death to experience the afterlife and getting more
than they bargained for. The depictions of the afterlife were
unmemorable: in that I don't remember them much! (I think there was
some sort of spooky tree involved, but that's about it!)

But the concept was sufficiently enticing  who isn't a little bit
intrigued by the question of "what's beyond"?  that Cross Creek
Pictures thought it worthy of dusting off and giving it another outing
in pursuit of dirty lucre. But unfortunately this offering adds little
to the property's reputation. 

In this version, the lead role is headed up by Ellen Page ("Inception")
who is a great actress too good for this stuff. Also in that category
is Diego Luna, who really made an impact in "Rogue One" but here has
little to work with in terms of backstory. The remaining three doctors
 Nina Dobrev as "the sexy one"; James Norton ("War and Peace") as "the
posh boy" and Kiersey Clemons as the "cute but repressed one", all have
even less backstory and struggle to make a great impact. 

Also putting in an appearance, as the one link from the original film,
is Kiefer Sutherland as a senior member of the teaching staff. But he's
not playing the same character (that WOULD have been a bloody miracle!)
and although Sutherland adds gravitas he really is given criminally
little to do. What was director Niels Arden Oplev ("The Girl with the
Dragon Tattoo") thinking?

In terms of the story, it's pretty much a re-hash of Peter Filardi's
original, with Ben Ripley ("Source Code") adding a few minor tweaks to
the screenplay to update it for the current generation. But I will levy
the same criticism of this film as I levied at the recent Stephen King
adaptation of "It": for horror to work well it need to obey some decent
'rules of physics' and although most of the scenes work (since a lot of
the "action" is sensibly based inside the character's heads) there are
the occasional linkages to the 'real world' that generate a "WTF???"
response. A seemingly indestructible Mini car (which is also clearly
untraceable by the police!) and a knife incident at the dockside are
two cases in point. 

Is there anything good to say about this film? Well, there are
certainly a few tense moments that make the hairs on your neck at least
start to stand to attention. But these are few and far between, amongst
a sea of movie 'meh'. It's certainly not going to be the worst film I
see this year, since at least I wasn't completely bored for the two
hours. But I won't remember this one in a few weeks. As a summary in
the form of a "Black Adder" quote, it's all a bit like a broken
pencil.. pointless.

(For the graphical version of this review, please visit bob-the-movie-
man.com. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
Why are there hidden religious references to Islam throughout this
remake? There is even a woman wearing a hijab in the very last frames.
Why is this necessary? Screw you Hollywood, using nice movies from the
past to push your political agenda with young (starting) actors.

One (dirty) star.
<|_=00=_|>
There's been this trend in recent years to remake iconic or at least
popular movies from earlier years. For the most part these movies have
been met with yawns, disinterest and have been rightfully savaged by
the critics and viewers. Occasionally you get a good movie out of it
but more often then not it's just a big, costly mistake. And so to get
around this studios no longer refer to these movies as remakes, but
"reimaginings". The idea is take the concept of the movie and and try
different things. This still doesn't make it a good idea.

The 80's version of Flatliners was an interesting movie. The concept of
a group of medical students flatlining and then coming back was
original. It brought with it elements of horror, existentialism and how
our choices can affect both ourselves and others. 

This one? I struggled to find a positive to give to it and I still
can't. This is a bad movie from every single point of view I can give.
It follows the same story of a group of medical students who in effect
kill themselves for a short period of time to see what's on the "other
side". Then before brain damage can occur they are brought back but
each brings back with them something from their past and they are in
effect haunted by this. 

It's really the same story as the original even if it's executed in a
different way. There's nothing else that needs to be said. Same thing
but worse. 

Save your money and rent the original if you want to see this. You'll
be happier and it won't cost you as much.
