
In "Side Effects", Emily (Rooney Mara) is feeling hopeless, suffering
from prolonged effects of abandonment issues, unsure how to proceed in
her life. Her husband, Martin (Channing Tatum) has just come home from
prison, serving time for insider trading. But Emily doesn't know what
she should be feeling; Emily doesn't know how to feel what she should
be feeling. Psychiatrist Dr. Jonathan Banks (Jude Law) is exactly what
the doctor ordered.

For those of us who watched "Contagion" (2011) and wanted to focus only
on Jude Law's morally ambiguous blogger, Alan Krumwiede, we have
finally gotten our wish. Law's morally ambiguous Dr. Jon Banks and
Mara's psychologically ambiguous Emily are the only two main
characters. There is only one story to follow.

It starts off with some strange camera angles (Steven Soderbergh
serving as his own director of photography as he has for the majority
of his films) but then settles down as a thriller, or what will become
a thriller once we get to know the characters better. Emily has tried
many antidepressants in the past but most leave her with undesired side
effects: nausea, dizziness, or lack of a sex drive. Won't Dr. Banks
please prescribe her something different? Sure, how about Ablixa, the
new medication which Dr. Banks is being paid to try out on patients.

And although we now think we know in which character evil lies, we do
not. Dr. Jonathan Banks is singularly the most complicated,
interestingly created character in recent times. He's modern, selfish,
compassionate, professionally-oriented, family-oriented, has respect
for the legal system, and will go to extremes to distinguish between
right and wrong. He's the focus of this character-centric, film noir
thriller which uses Mara's Emily as the vehicle for the plot.

A crime is committed. It's bad, really bad. But the question is not who
did it, the question is, who is guilty? In answering that question the
film weaves from deception through twist to deception, never ceasing
our questions of what is morally right, what is morally wrong and who
is guilty? The screenplay is incredibly well-written, creating
characters that amaze us, disappoint us and deceive us all the while
being a part of an interesting and complex story. The dialogue fits
with that theme, using words like "hopeless" to tie multiple characters
together - conceptually not physically.

It's more of an edge-of-your-mind thriller rather than an edge-of-your-
seat thriller. Never really scared, always questioning the moral and
psychological behaviour of these characters. The ending takes some
strange, sexually-charged turns, and perhaps a bit more conclusive than
I was originally expecting, but don't worry, you can still question
where the line is between right and wrong and when each character
crossed it.
<|_=00=_|>
I read an article that said that, with Side Effects, Steven Soderbergh
wanted to return to the old suspense classics like Jagged Edge and much
of Hitchcock, psychological twisters that aren't made much anymore.

I suspect that's because today people expect vampires, car chases or
buckets of blood to justify the price of a ticket. Well, I too remember
those old classics and I loved them. Side Effects is a worthy addition
but be warned that it's a thinking person's movie not a chainsaw caper.

I'm surprised that so many people mention the twists and turns. Yes,
there are some but not that many and they're what makes it all so
fascinating. You think you know what's happening -- but you don't! What
I especially enjoyed was the gamesmanship the different characters
displayed. It's like a chess match with three people and more to
kibitz.

And yet as we travel through the story, the surprising bits do make
sense and we wonder why we didn't think of those things before. We're
deep into the heart of mental illness and psychopathology. Almost every
character has secrets or hidden motives they would not like to see the
light of day. Although the main character seems at first to be the
troubled young wife, it becomes clear that it is Jude Law's character
as the shrink who is struggling to find the truth and do the right
thing.

Just when you think everything that can go wrong for him has, the tide
begins to turn and it's Oh My Gosh. Just like a Hitchcock film, you
have a guy to root for and wonder how he will ever work his way though.
I expected a different -- more startling -- ending, but there is the
promise (perhaps?) of more horror to come.

Yes, let's definitely have a sequel! Okay, Stephen?
<|_=00=_|>
In our pharmaceutically inclined society, side effects are ever-present
hazards of prescription drug usage. Whether they are minimized in
print, or spoken in a hushed tone at the close of television
commercials, side effects have become a shady companion of prescription
drugs. Side Effects, Steven Soderbergh's alleged final film, focuses on
the consequences visited upon a young couple after the side effects
from the wife's medication cause her to commit an alarming act. As the
chasm opens beneath this young woman, her psychiatrist struggles with
his responsibility for her predicament, and confront his lingering
suspicion about his patient's state of mind.

Ever the auteur, Soderbergh remains delightfully unpredictable with
this latest feature. Side Effects initially presents itself as an
indictment of the pharmaceutical industry, wearing its heavy-handed
message on its sleeve, but promptly converts into a psychological
suspense thriller. Soderbergh stares you directly in the eyes while he
rips the rug from beneath your feet, sending you spiraling toward a
conclusion that is equally unexpected and pleasing. Soderbergh and
screenwriter Scott Z. Burns (Contagion, The Bourne Ultimatum) channel
Hitchcock, creating an in-depth narrative that remains unpredictable
until its final scene. 

Soderbergh is known for generating a positive film environment for his
cast, and maximizing the actors' potential in his films. Although the
cast for Side Effects is comprised of actors who have previously
provided impressive performances, each actor presents a character that
rivals any prior roles. Rooney Mara plays the young woman at the
epicenter of the conflict. Mara is extremely engrossing, creating an
aura of discontent and depression within her situation. She acts as the
film's catalyst, holding all the characters together while prompting
them toward their conclusions. Attractive, graceful, and erratic, Mara
is the wounded girl who isn't all that she seems.

While the film's driving force is Mara, Jude Law is its principle
focus. As Mara's overwhelmed psychiatrist, Law provides his most
empathetic role to date. Law establishes a flawed character who
struggles with the consequences forced upon him, and transforms into a
protagonist worthy of our admiration. Law and Mara provide such
intriguing characterizations, Soderbergh seems to have difficulty
deciding which to devote more time to. The scenes they share are the
most arresting in this film.

There are few things more satisfying than a film which receives little
attention, but creates an unexpectedly entertaining experience. Though
Soderbergh has billed Side Effects as his swan song, he confirms that
he is a cinematic mastermind in a film that would be an impressive
conclusion to an eccentric career. Indulge in this unconventional
thriller; you won't mind the side effects.

flickermotion.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
I usually love Steven Soderbergh films. And this one starts off with
his usual brilliance and had me hooked for the first half of the film.

The first of the film is well-acted, well-crafted, smart and involving.

Then comes the crunch: without spoiling, the second half of the film is
quite different. In a sense the "smart" of the film just becomes an
exercise in how "clever" the plot can be at the expense of any
emotional truth to the characters. I stopped caring for the ensemble as
they started to feel like lifeless pawns following the whims of a "how
clever am I?" plot-line. You'll enjoy it if you like a Sunday Afternoon
TV Detective movie and like solving the puzzle, but this is not great
theatre.

It is better than most films, but only just. Certainly one of
Soderbergh's most disappointing. Rooney Mara makes it still watchable -
an actress to keep following.
<|_=00=_|>
Side Effects is a psychological thriller centered around the
pharmaceutical industry. I won't say much more for fear of spoiling
anything, but let's just say an experimental drug prescription goes...
haywire. ;)

Steven Soderbergh crafts his suspense from the very first frame with a
perfect start for the film. The plot then pulls us in and keeps us
guessing as the mystery slowly unfolds. The cast meshes wonderfully.
Jude Law delivers a strong lead as the frustrated psychiatrist and
Rooney Mara is mysterious and unpredictable. My only complaint is the
performances were not as dramatic as they could have been. Mara was
excellent at portraying her character's cold and lifeless depression,
but I have seen what she is really capable of (Fincher's "The Girl with
the Dragon Tattoo"), and she could have definitely reached those
heights with this type of character. Nonetheless, a fine set of
performances all around, but they take a back seat to the intoxicating
narrative.

So is Side Effects Soderbergh's last hurrah? I certainly hope not, as
it's probably my favorite film of his. I do wish Soderbergh got more
range out of Mara, but the result is a satisfying and expertly-woven
psychological drama packed with twists and turns.
<|_=00=_|>
Steven Soderbergh's "Side Effects" begins with the camera zooming in
from the streets to an apartment window, and ends in the reverse manner
(no, I'm not spoiling anything). In a subtle way, Soderbergh's final
shot represents his "full circle". Will he really retire from
filmmaking for good? If so, then we will miss him. He is a truly
exceptional filmmaker - and "Side Effects" would be a worthy film to go
out on.

Indeed, "Side Effects" is a pure thriller, as it was marketed. While
prescription medicine is the central plot device, the film also deals
with psychology, law, insecurity, social stigma, corporate greed and
obsession. Not explicitly for all of them, mind you, but subtly enough
to get the point through, and not dawdling on it a second further. The
taut, gripping, Hitchcockian screenplay by Scott Z. Burns gleefully
twists and turns its way into unexpected plot developments, allowing
Soderbergh to roam the apartments and streets with his camera, creating
an intense yet unusually hypnotic atmosphere that is irresistibly
gorgeous to watch.

Jude Law, looking more haggard here, is suitably desperate and
obsessive as the "good?" doctor who seeks the truth pervasively after a
horrific act committed by his patient, Emily (Rooney Mara). Clues lead
him to Emily's previous doctor, Dr. Siebert (Catherine Zeta-Jones),
which reveal that things are not what they seem. Zeta-Jones is juicily
and devilishly icy-cold in her portrayal of Siebert, reminding me of
those wicked female villains of the 90's thrillers. Staying in the
background while having an influence throughout the second half of the
movie is Rooney Mara, once again giving a strong performance as the
conflicted Emily. Extremely vulnerable, soft-spoken, and unpredictable,
she continues to steadily rise as one of the best young actresses
working today. Channing Tatum too, as her husband Martin, an ex-convict
fresh out of prison for insider trading, portrays his character outside
of the stereotype, and turns him into a somewhat sympathetic and
unfortunate character.

Soderbergh's complete control of atmosphere would not be complete
without his usual great cinematography, crisp editing and unnerving
music score by Thomas Newman, who conjures up some interesting musical
themes at the proper times to rattle the characters even further. This
is extremely skillful filmmaking, and although the plot has been seen
and done before, it is exhilarating to see how a master filmmaker
commands his given material so strongly and fleshing it out with his
signature style.

This is a very good film. It's one of those movies that, when you start
watching, you want to keep watching to see what happens next. Hitchcock
himself would have smiled at this one. As for Soderbergh, he still has
that Liberace biopic due for a TV release later this year, so he's not
done with it yet. But well, I sure hope he returns someday if he
decides to do so.
<|_=00=_|>
Steven Soderbergh has decided to end his career what can only be
described as a pharmaceutical, psychosexual thriller that deals with
several morally ambiguous characters all revolving around one horrible
incident. Out of fear of giving away the intelligent, twist-filled plot
written by Scot Z. Burns, that's really all I can say, although I can
tell you that Soderbergh directs the film with extreme confidence, and
it shows. He was able to convey a sort of quiet chaos with his frequent
close-ups, and, by shifting in-and-out of focus throughout the screen,
he was able to draw attention to the many small, yet important details.

The real strength of this film, though, is not necessarily the story
itself, but how it is presented. To be honest, the story is almost too
smart to the point of absurdity, but it never comes off as such. By
releasing only one small piece of information at a time, we are kept
waiting through interviews, court hearings, false trails, and many
psychiatrist visits until, finally, everything comes together into one
neat conclusion. The entire film is very subdued, but if you pay
attention, you will be rewarded in the end.

Of course, the story would not have turned out so well without the
multiple impressive performances that carry it all the way through.
Rooney Mara is once again stunning as Emily Taylor, a woman who starts
taking prescription antidepressants to cope with her husband's release
from prison. Without giving much away, Emily is far more complex than
she first appears, and Mara plays this perfectly by retaining a dark
mysteriousness about her. She truly steals every scene she's in, and
displays such a range of emotions that, at times, it's difficult to
tell what her character is truly thinking. This is unfortunate for
Channing Tatum, who does a fine job as her loving and sympathetic
husband trying to make everything right after being released for
insider trading, but who doesn't have close to enough material to
compete with Mara.

Jude Law, on the other hand, is arguably the most central figure as Dr.
Jonathan Banks, Emily's psychiatrist who is thrown into a scandal when
his patient is involved in a tragic accident after taking an
antidepressant he prescribed for her. He slowly mentally unravels as
his decisions come back to haunt him, and eventually has to cross
several moral boundaries in order to get his life back on track. Law
shows this frustration with expert skill, and gives one of the best
performances of his recent career. The same can be said for Catherine
Zeta- Jones, whoas Emily's former psychiatrist Dr. Victoria
Siebertgives possibly the most complex performance, and does it
brilliantly despite her lack of screen time.

To give away any more would be to say too much, as the film is so
perfectly structured, it is difficult to discuss without giving away
the whole thing. All I can add is, it is not so simple and
straightforward as it may appear. It is a complex of characters, their
motives, and the consequences of their actions, and, despite taking a
while to get started, it is truly a spectacular, thrilling, and
intricate journey that should not be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're lucky, Side Effects won't be permanent. For half of the
movie, it is a persuasive indictment of the pharmaceutical industry and
its crass behavior toward its patients; for the other half, it is a
three- cornered mystery/thriller, with double crosses and framings
galore. It is fair to say that the movie is adequate during each of its
disparate parts, but overall it's a convoluted story that immerses
itself in faux intrigue and wraps itself up so neatly that you can
practically see the bow on it. 

Emily (Rooney Mara) is a depressive; her husband Martin (Channing
Tatum) has just returned from a stint in prison for insider trading,
but she feels anxious and can't sleep. She visits psychiatrist Jonathan
Banks (Jude Law), who prescribes a brand-new drug to help her out when
the better-known brands (Zoloft, Paxil, Wellbutrin, etc.) don't seem to
break Emily from her ennui. But the drug, as you might have guessed so
expertly, does have its side effects.

It turns out - not a spoiler - that Emily has begun to sleepwalk. Well,
more than sleepwalk, she does things in her sleep, like cook breakfast
and set the table, all in the middle of the night and not remembering a
thing the next day. Tragedy strikes while Emily sleeps. Is she the
culprit, or is the drug to blame?

At first, the premise seems to be that involving patients in drugs that
are just approved, as part of a study, is pretty unethical behavior by
a doctor. Dr. Banks has bills to pay, though, what with his wife losing
her high-powered job. So he's working longer hours and taking on more
work, including participation in this study. When the tragedy that
strikes comes back to haunt him as well as Emily, the movie takes a
turn - it manages to turn Banks from being just an overextended shmoe
into a manipulative drug dealer who uses his patients as experiments.
Up until this point, we don't know whether Banks is actually innocent.
From what we've seen, he seems so, but he could have inadvertently
caused someone's death by prescribing medication to someone who reacted
badly to the side effects. Naturally, his reputation (and marriage) in
ruins, Banks works to clear his name. This is actually easier than it
is in most movies of this ilk, because he's not in prison or anything.
He just needs to piece together clues.

One of those clues is Emily's last doctor, Victoria Siebert (Catherine
Zeta-Jones), who is helpful but guarded. She relates that Emily left
her care in Connecticut when Emily's husband got a job on Wall Street,
which ultimately led Emily to see Dr. Banks.

The second half of the movie deals with Banks' efforts to find things
out. Racing against time and struggling to believe various stories, he
is now in full-on victim mode as presented to the viewer. It's not an
unusual role; in fact, it's sort of a trope, the innocent trying to
prove themselves. We're now sold on his innocence, and we as the
audience just want to know what's happened.

I mentioned before that the movie ends rather neatly. Too neatly for my
tastes, although it's not as if the explanations were implausible. But
there's nothing wrong with some loose ends, some ambiguity, and this
film - the 50th and final (maybe?) to be directed by Steven Soderbergh
- leaves nothing ambiguous behind. We know, in full, the motives and
fates of each character. Is this a good thing? Many won't be bothered
by it, but for me I just prefer to have some questions left unanswered. 

Law is adequate, although it feels like he's just stepping in for Tom
Cruise when Cruise did all of those "framed man on the run" movies,
like The Firm. Zeta-Jones is icy and opaque, two beneficial traits for
her character. Mara, of course, steals the show, simply because of
this: up until the last moments of the movie, we don't know whether
anything about Emily is true. Instead of Law being the victim/accused,
Mara's character slips quietly into that very role. In Emily, Mara
brings the ambiguity the film needs - it's just too bad that ambiguity
did not spread to the rest of the film. Shame; that would be a nice
side effect indeed.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a couple of interviews with the cast before this film came out
and they talked about the fact that this film had a lot of twists and
turns in it; and they weren't kidding. However, that being said I went
in with a certain mindset and it took me a little time to figure it
out, but I eventually did. Either the film was moving real slow for me
or I have become accustom to seeing more action. This film is purely
psychological in nature, so if you are looking for some action, there
isn't any. It also got me to thinking how much power court appointed
psychologists have and how they have the power to manipulate the
system. On the other hand, it also made me realize that mental patients
have absolutely no control over their lives (which may be a good
thing). Dr. Jonathan Banks (Jude Law) is the psychologist on the case
of a severely depressed patient. His world is quickly turned upside
down by having to deal with anxiety, depression, pharmaceuticals and
medical ethics. Emily Taylor (Rooney Mara) is the severely depressed
woman who is desperately trying to find the right drug to cure her
affliction. Dr. Victoria Siebert (Catherine Zeta-Jones) is a former
attending psychologist of Emily who is consulted by Dr. Banks to try
and uncover some of the dilemmas of her past. Martin Taylor (Channing
Tatum) is Emily's husband and is shouldered with the responsibility of
trying to care his wife as she tries medication after medication in
addition to trying to keep the marriage together. Dierdre Banks
(Vinessa Shaw) is Jonathan's wife and she becomes a victim and
unwilling participant in the unfolding circumstances that is affecting
her life. I think that the entire cast did an excellent job, but as I
said before it was a tad slow for me in the beginning. This film
definitely keeps you on the edge of your seat and you really do not
know who is playing whom. It was difficult to know who to root for
until all is revealed at the end. I thought that the story was a good
one and it definitely takes you on a roller-coaster ride. I am not sure
that anyone could ever reach the level of a Hitchcock film, but this
one comes pretty close. Steven Soderbergh did an excellent job
embracing this genre of film. I give this film a green light.
<|_=00=_|>
What a delicious surprise of a movie for this early in the year. As has
been the case before, a few films of greatness end up playing just
after the first of the year. I saw this movie with expecting a clichéd
crime drama. What I saw was one of the most inventive and riotous
versions of suspense in years. Despite signs that this genre is dead
and buried (no pun intended)here is a very modern film that updates the
themes and tones of film noir without a pause or hitch of any kind. And
as usual in great movies of this type, the setting is a character as
strong as any of the actors. New York City has never looked this
depressing and cold. But what really works here is a cast so perfect,
that you can hardly remember their names. Each actor fits so perfectly
in the tapestry of the plot, that the film has a naturalism so real it
is surreal. There is a an incredible attention to detail that is what
you would expect from a Broadway play or a painting by Dali. One
suggestion-DO NOT go by yourself. Having a fellow traveler to discuss
this is very required. And I say this as someone who goes to the movies
alone often.
