
Best Man's Holiday, is a timely-well written and acted movie. It
touches on so many social issues people are going through in the now.
It is surprising how emotional involved you will be caught up in
scenes. It's a roller coaster of highly amusing moments on second,
followed by an altar call of your conscience reflecting on unresolved
past issues the next. The movie will have you unexpectedly grabbing for
popcorn salt covered napkins to use on tear ducts, then laughing so
hard followed with, "what if -, thank you, goodness (smirk)Â…,you have
got to be kidding me and oh YES (I know that's right)," moments. And
then more need of those crumpled salt and oil napkins you discarded in
the empty popcorn bowl.

So warning! Save your eyes, bring tissue and make sure the cell phone
is charged. You'll be calling family and friends after seeing this
movie. You may end up seeing them sooner than you thought possible or
vowed ever to do again.
<|_=00=_|>
I have probably watched the first movie, The Best Man, at least 5 to 6
times since it came out. It was funny, presented new angles for Black
actors, and though Christianity, as with most Black films, was in
there, it wasn't overdone. As for the sequel, it is rare to get a whole
cast to return when more than a decade has passed, and truly I think,
when it comes to original movies and not ones based off someone who was
alive, this is the best film featuring a Black majority cast in a
while.

Characters & Story

In the film, everyone comes back and really the only new editions are
the kids of the characters and the obligatory White co-star. For those
who haven't seen the first film though, the majority of the casts are
all doing White-Collar work. Harper (played by Taye Diggs) is an
author, and former teacher at NYU; his wife Robyn (played by Sanaa
Lathan) is a Chef; his best friend Lance (played by Morris Chestnut) is
a football player who is soon to retire; his wife Mia (played by Monica
Calhoun) is a housewife; then there is Jordan (played by Nia Long) who
works for MSNBC in a executive producer role; her new boyfriend Brian
(played by Eddie Cibrian) who seemingly works on Wall Street; then
there is Julian (played by Harold Perrineau) who seems to be a
innovator in education, and runs his own school with the assistance of
his wife Candace (played by Regina Hall); the last two to mention are
Shelby (played by Melissa De Sousa) who is a reality TV star, and
Quentin (played by Terrence Howard) who owns a managing firm.

Altogether, they all have the type of lives and careers which make them
sound like Cosby Show kids, but they also have quite a bit of drama as
well. Most of which is featured in the first movie so I won't go into
all that. However, for this movie the idea is coming back together and
trying to mend bonds which have weakened due to lack of time, effort
and because of bad blood.

Praise

Probably the top thing about this movie is the comedy. This is a tad
bit of social comedy in the film, but a large amount of laughs come
from them cracking jokes on each other. Some of it is just jabs at one
another, like the joke about Harper having a low sperm count, but other
times the jokes were vicious like the fight Candace and Shelby have. At
the same time though, I must also praise the non-comedic performances.
Mind you, those who have seen the original, there is a lot of already
existing drama since so many people dated each other, had sex with each
other, or liked each other, in the group. Due to this, the chemistry
between character and their history causes friction. But, naturally
there is one thing which brings them together and bond like a family.
Unfortunately though, said situation will bring the tears which makes
me glad for Shelby and Quentin for comic relief. For, when I say a
situation will bring you to tears, I mean that for at least 15 minutes
I was dripping tears, sometimes it getting intense to the point I was
lightly shaking and the roof of my mouth was hurting. So needless to
say, bring your tissues for the writing and performances will test your
sense of empathy. 

Criticism

Which leads the few issues with the film. The main issue is that I do
feel Harper and Lance's relationship is less natural, in terms of
writing and situations, than the rest of the stories. The thing which
causes conflict between the two, after they reconcile, specifically is
what I felt was sort of forced and was eye-roll inducing. Still, it
helped push the story along. The only other issue, and this is really
nitpicking, is that Lance brings an almost Tyler Perry style faith in
Christianity which only bothered me since I am growing tired of Black
characters solely being Christian and not spreading their wings to
other faiths, or being agnostic/ atheist.

Overall: Worth Seeing

Usually I count how often I laugh when I see a comedy film, but I
enjoyed myself so much I forgot to. Truly, this film reminds me why I
watch the original, Love Jones, Jason's Lyric, and other romantic
dramedys that came out in the 90s/00s. They remind you, as a movie
enthusiast, that there is more out there for Black actors than them
doing slave roles, doing buffoon comedy pictures, or doing films based
off people's lives. And this isn't to say that there aren't dramatic
roles done which are fiction or original, but when do they get the type
of push The Best Man Holiday is getting? This is why I think it is
worth seeing. Not just because it is a good film featuring Black
people, or because it is a sequel to a classic, but because it is a
good film period. One that does enough to acknowledge these are
African-Americans we are seeing, but in a Cosby Show way so that it
isn't trying to alienate a general audience, and speak to more than
simply the skin color, and backgrounds, of the cast. Truly, I hope this
film inspires another renaissance, for we are badly in need of one.
<|_=00=_|>
Lance and Mia bring together a group of close friends to celebrate
Christmas. As it is usual with such gatherings, each group of friends
brought along their own emotional baggage and old divisions amongst
them resurfaced.

This is an emotional movie. Lance is the central character. He is an
enormously successful and wealthy baseball player, yet he is grounded
by his love for God and devotion to his family. It is his loyalty to
his wife that he will organise the gathering although to him will be
particularly challenging.

Such occasions will provide opportunities for people to quarrel, fall
out and make up. A shocking revelation will ground everyone.
Ultimately, life brings ups and down and in the midst of it all one
will need a group of friends that will simply be there. They don't have
to do anything as long they are present and available.

Well acted, with poignant conversations this is a movie with which the
audience will resonate. It is a shame that the presence of hints and
insinuations in the dialogues demonstrate that the obsession with race
is still prevalent.
<|_=00=_|>
A sequel to a film made in the last century, in fact the last
millennium! I have not seen the original film so had rely on the
opening titles to fill in the gaps.

The movie finds veteran football player Lance Sullivan (Morris
Chestnut) and his wife Mia having a weekend Christmas party with their
old friends.

Lance has not got on well with his best friend, Harper Stewart (Taye
Diggs) for some years and Harper himself is a star writer on the wane
with a pregnant wife after having problems having children with his
wife, Robin (Sanaa Lathan). Harper hopes to do a biography on Lance
despite their testy relationship.

Also in the mix is a reality TV star, an educator and his wife who used
to be a stripper, a TV producer and Terence Howard who is some kind of
businessman but acts like an overgrown kid.

The producers have done well getting the original cast together after
all these years and Malcolm D Lee writes and directs once again.

This is an ensemble comedy drama as over the course of the weekend
frictions emerge and then bad news as one of them is severely ill which
leads to gradual healing of some of the tensions. There is a good mix
of comedy and drama, never feels dull but did feel maybe 10 minutes too
long and some of the issues that divided the characters might have been
resolved too quickly.
<|_=00=_|>
people who like this movie is who like soap opera ... if you sit with
yourself for 5 minutes closing your eyes ... you can imagine third and
fourth sequel of this movie ... the characters in that movie is typical
with no surprise in their ideas or situations ... the story is nothing
and cannot add anything new for the first movie ... even the actors
performance is average ordinary ... there is no surprise in there
performance at all ...or super acting. then some events in the movie is
fabricated ... like the scene of delivery of the baby ... and the scene
of Reconciliation between different actors ...

weak movie .. but entertaining like any soap opera
<|_=00=_|>
Emotion Packed, Heart-felt, BLACK DRAMA AT IT'S FINEST! Shot primarily
in Toronto, Canada ... this film truly felt like a Christmas Movie! If
you aren't choking and tearing up by the 1 hr. 45 min. mark of this
film, you may need to check if you are still human! This film far
surpasses that of it's original 1998 prequel in every category ... for
within "The Best Man Holiday" exists tension, strife, rivalry, haughty
looks, lust, faith, belief, hope, seeking, miracles, jealousy, envy,
... did I say strife ... LOL! But despite all of the things the spirit
of God flows throughout the film from start to finish! I'd like to see
this kind of directing in all Black films, for Malcom D Lee shows us
that not only can he make us laugh hysterically, as in "Welcome Home
Roscoe Jenkins", ... but he can also make us cry as I did and I'm sure,
a vast majority of viewers have & will. The music score in this film
rates A+ and the cast members selected for this sequel could not be a
more perfect selection. Terrance Howard's comedy, wit, and sarcasm is
an added plus towards helping us, the viewers, return from a state of
tears, back to a state of laughter. I rate this film 5 of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
The Best Man Holiday is a sequel to The Best Man 1999, which centered
on actors Lance (Morris Chestnut) and Mia (Monica Calhouns) wedding.
Where Harper (Taye Diggs) is Lance's best man in that movie it surfaced
that Harper had written a book about the couple as well as their
friends from college. In the book harpers character sleeps with Mia's
character when Lance puts two and two together he is furious the
wedding almost doesn't happen. But he ends up forgiving Mia because he
had cheated on her several times before. Any way The Best Man Holiday
is based 15 years after the events of Best Man. In The Best Man Holiday
Lance and Harper are not friends they are polite but that is only
because they have mutual friends you get the impression harper hasn't
seen Mia or Lance in years. Harper is on hard times his wife is
pregnant he has lost his job and hasn't written anything good in years.
So when he gets Mia's invite he sees it as an opportunity to get the
inside scoop on Lances biography. Hilarity ensues for the next 40
minutes while the whole gang gets back together at Lances mansion for
the holidays. Then there is a sudden shift and the movie that was
advertised as a comedy changes completely. There is a major bomb shell
dropped on the audience and from there on out there are very few jokes
mostly tears up until the end of the movie. Alright now on to the
individual characteristics acting was good very emotional and
believable performances from each of the actors the movie really
thrives off the group dynamic and the s@*t talk between the men and
women. Cinematography is pretty standard nothing new just your basic
romantic dramedy. Story wise it doesn't feel like the movie gives you
the story that they advertised. This movie was marketed as a laugh out
loud comedy and it was until about 40 minutes in then it did a
screaming 180 towards drama and tears. It was a strong albeit clichÃ©
story but I left the movie feeling sadder than uplifted as I usually
feel after a good comedy. Overall if you want a clichÃ© story with some
good bits of humor but an overarching feeling of sadness this is for
you.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie really came full circle. I laughed, I cried, then laughed
some more. felt like I was on a roller coaster of emotion, but in a
very good way, both the story and the characters were so well
developed. This movie really taps into what friendship and forgiveness,
and love should be I could relate to something about all the
characters. Even the title is perfect because the message is so deep
that it renews life's true meaning at a time when we are in the middle
of the most materialistic holiday of the year. This movie really
brought me back, and reminded me of my blessings, what a great message
for us all Thank you 10 stars ...Go see it
<|_=00=_|>
I am African American but I don't usually go to the typical Black
movies because I find them too heavily silly, religious and
manipulative so I was surprised as how funny and heartwarming Best
Man's Holiday was. I really loved seeing all of these beautiful Black
men and women getting together and celebrating their ups and downs.
Terrance Howard was great, I never thought he could be so funny. It was
great seeing Nina Long and Sanaa Latham who are great actresses and
don't get enough screen time (Hollywood just don't tap its Black talent
like it should). Morris Chestnut was also great and Taye Diggs (that's
not to say that Howard Perrineau, Monica Calhoun and Melissa De Sousa
weren't good because they were). Yes this movie is predictable and in
some places overly preachy but you'll have a fun time and that's what
movies are for.
<|_=00=_|>
Having just seen the first film The Best Man (1999) a few months ago
and having enjoyed it, I was excited to see what director Malcolm D.
Lee had in store for his beloved characters in, The Best Man Holiday.

Harper Stewart (Taye Diggs) is in the midst of financial problems, with
a baby on the way, and no one wants to publish his new novel. Harper
starts pondering the idea of writing a biography on his estranged
friend and NFL running back Lance Sullivan (Morris Chestnut). Christmas
is around the corner so Lance and his wife Mia (Monica Calhoun) invite
the whole gang over for the holidays. 

The whole cast is excellent. Taye Diggs gives another great
performance, nice to see him making films again. Morris Chestnut and
Monica Calhoun are remarkable together, such great on-screen chemistry.
Nia Long and Regina Hall are both hilarious and both deliver superb
dramatic work. Terrence Howard scores eighty percent of the laughs and
also has some truly heart felt scenes. This is such a big cast, and
everyone plays off of each other extremely well.

Malcolm D. Lee has a few films under his belt, and he can add The Best
Man Holiday right near the top. This works on so many levels. Most
heavy-handed religious films I try to steer away from, because they are
extremely typical and most characters are stereotypes, but this one
works. The film does have a few scenes that I believe could have been
cut out or rewritten, especially a a child birthing scene that is
ludicrous and sucks you right out of the drama that has just unfolded.
Overall, the film is worth the time, I give The Best Man Holiday an 8
out of 10.
