
This film was one of two real standouts for me at the Sundance Film
Festival 2012. Lead by two Oscar-worthy performances from Mary
Elizabeth Winstead (Kate) and Aaron Paul (Charlie), "Smashed"
accomplishes the impossible by addressing a very serious topic with
depth and sympathy and realism, while still finding time to make the
audience laugh hysterically now and then. Director James Ponsoldt and
his co-writer Susan Burke deserve high praise for pulling off that
feat. Additional kudos go to "Parks and Recreation's" Nick Offerman, as
the deadpan sad- sack co-worker who takes Kate to AA and starts her on
the road to sobriety. In a role that's the opposite of uber-confident
Ron Swanson, he's hilarious as the always-ill-at-ease Dave.

This is one of those rare movies that is just like life: sometimes very
funny, sometimes very sad, but always real. I hope it gets the audience
it deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
Writing as an alcoholic... I have 2 things to say about this film. The
first is that the learnt ability to 'deal' with life through alcohol
abuse, was entirely authentic... and the second is that the loss of
important relationships was inevitable with the life changes that
salvation demands.

Writing as a film critic... that this taught me something about my own
alcoholism... makes it an impressive film from my point of view. The
inter-dependent relationship at the centre of this story is entirely
real, as is it's eventual de-construction. Only a non-addict would see
the interventions contained within the story as being sanctimonious or
having some political agenda. This is not an argument... alcohol
destroys lives.

The acting from the two 'leads' was excellent. The bigotry towards
alcoholism was treated in a perfunctory way... but was still relevant
to the story. Most of all... this film portrays the isolation felt by
those who escape their entrapments. We all have to take giant steps in
our lives... those steps rarely coincide with anyone else's. This film
demonstrates that very well.

This was never going to be a film that excites the majority
movie-goers...but for those that like films that can tell you something
you didn't already know... it is well worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a recovering alcoholic, 23 years sober. Over the years, I've
developed somewhat of an obsession with films on this subject, always
looking for my own story. 'Smashed' is that film. Mary Elizabeth
Winstead captures the essence of the functional alcoholic perfectly.
Her character, Kate, is two people - the respected, enthusiastic
teacher by day and the out of control drunk by night. This can work for
a while, but there will always come a day when these two worlds
literally collide.

This movie hits that mark perfectly. Kate's recognition that she is an
alcoholic is tough to watch, but so realistic. I knew I had a problem,
but denied it until that one morning I woke up in my car and had
flashes of memories from a crazy, chaotic night before. Like Kate, I
went to AA that same day, and while I hated it at first, those people
saved my life.

This movie is about redemption and loss. Getting sober isn't easy. Life
continues and we are left to deal with the wreckage of our past. Those
problems we ignored, suddenly explode in our faces. But we deal with
them. 'Smashed' should be required viewing at rehab because it's real.
<|_=00=_|>
A young woman who works as an elementary school teacher confronts her
problem with alcoholism. She is forced to deal with her problem after
vomiting in front of her 1st grade class. The AA meetings lead to the
usual difficulties of recovering alcoholics, regarding marriage and
work. An outstanding performance by Mary Elizabeth-Winstead highlights
this terrific drama, as she effectively portrays the travails of
addiction without being overly dramatic, she realistically dives into
this role, carrying the entire film. This movie avoids slow pacing, and
really kept me engaged, with a likable lead character, and believable
surrounding acquaintances and family members. This is certainly one of
the finest films of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
SMASHED (dir. James Ponsoldt) Kate and Charlie are 'twenty-something'
married alcoholics who live a boozy and carefree life in a working
class section of Los Angeles. The problem is that when Kate hits bottom
first they soon find themselves emotionally and psychologically at
odds. Mary Elizabeth Winstead turns in a stunning performance as a
winsome primary school teacher who realizes that alcohol has made her
life unmanageable, but her new-found sobriety seems to have accentuated
subliminal problems in her married and professional life. The film
offers the uncommon insight that an alcoholic's last drink really only
marks the beginning of the true struggle. SMASHED is a film of
redemption that rings true. Worth A Look
<|_=00=_|>
The title SMASHED may make you think this is some lurid story about
alcoholism but it's not. It's a very straightforward, sensitive
treatment on the subject of addiction as seen through the eyes of an
elementary schoolteacher, Hannah, beautifully played by Mary Elizabeth
Winstead in one of the best performances this year. Winstead is
wonderfully authentic as a young woman whose excessive drinking begins
to interfere with her job. She's someone we don't expect to find
battling this kind of problem which makes the film all the more
poignant. Her marriage to a rather shiftless man who spends his time
drinking and cavorting with friends doesn't help. As we learn more
about her past we begin to understand how she ended up in this
relationship. The good supporting cast includes Aaron Paul as her
husband, Charlie, who's even more oblivious than Hannah; Oscar winner
Octavia Spencer adds some humor to the otherwise grim gospel of
withdrawal and recovery; Megan Mullally is the principal of Hannah's
school; Nick Offerman is a colleague who takes an interest in Hannah's
troubles and Mary Kay Place is her mother who insists she can still mix
a great Bloody Mary. The screenplay by director James Ponsoldt and
Susan Burke is determined to avoid the melodramatic pitfalls and
clich√©s of similar stories and purposely takes a lighthearted,
sometimes comedic approach. SMASHED is an honest, contemporary look at
the bad choices we make and impact they have on our lives.
<|_=00=_|>
"I don't think I can do this anymore, I think I need to slow down and I
might need help." Kate (Winstead) is an elementary school teacher who
loves her job. She is married to a man she loves. One day at school she
throws up in class and the class asks if shes pregnant. What starts off
as a little lie snowballs until she reveals the truth. Kate is an
alcoholic. This is one of the best under the radar movies that I have
seen in a long time. While not as intense as Flight was at showing the
effects and struggles with addiction this is still a very well done and
disturbing look at the problem. Winstead gives an amazing performance
in this and deserves to be nominated or at the very least talked about.
The movie is depressing and a little hard to watch but it really should
be seen by a bigger audience then it will get. I know movies about
addiction aren't at the top of everyone's list but this is a movie that
I do recommend. Overall, a movie that is hard to watch in some parts
but deserves to be seen by more people then will see it. I give it a
high B+.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie itself is not really a big shouting message to tell people
what to do. And even Aaron Paul, whose character may seem one
dimensional does have things you'll discover about him. There are more
layers there and some need looking at them to see them. Nick Offerman
plays it almost silently, but has one completely over the top scene (a
scene with a follow-up joke that would fit in any other comedy too),
that still does not derail the movie.

But the main protagonist, our woman that we follow is what it's all
about. And she delivers in a way that is very heartbreaking to watch.
And very real too. Everyday problems and things that get out of hand.
You may cringe here and there, but the movie is still able to affect
you very deeply.
<|_=00=_|>
Whether it is us or one of the many people we know, it is hard for
anyone to say they have never been around someone who has gotten far
too drunk; someone that should have been cut off sooner than they were.
The mess that results can often times be humorous, while other times it
can become a concern. And if it is something that starts to control
your life, then it has become a sickness.

This is the subject of the film Smashed, the story of an alcoholic
first grade teacher named Kate (Mary Elizabeth Winstead). Married to
Charlie (Aaron Paul), Kate has grown up in a world of drinkers; her
friends, her family, even strangers she has only just met all seem to
live the same lifestyle as she does. But reality sets in when Kate gets
to the limits of lying to the children in her class and waking up
underneath a highway. Kate has a problem and it is affecting her life
and those around her dramatically.

Deciding she needs to make a change, Kate finds her way to an
Alcoholics Anonymous meeting through one of her co-workers, Dave (Nick
Offerman). Finding she starts to like getting her life together an
being sober, Kate continues on with AA through the support of Dave and
her sponsor, Jenny (Octavia Spencer). The support she lacks is that of
her husband, Charlie, who continues to drink and causes a struggle for
Kate in her everyday living. With struggles in her home and work life,
Kate realizes that becoming sober and stopping her urge to drink isn't
even the strongest challenge in her life. The biggest struggle is
mending and holding relationships with the people around her and
finding a way to be an honest and good person in her own life.

As I mentioned earlier, drunken behavior is not something many of us
are foreign to, whether it is ourselves or someone we have been around
during a crazy night. This is important because it is how we judge many
portions of this movie. Both Winstead and Paul have to act through
multiple scenes where their character is belligerent. Knowing how a
drunk would act, walk, and speak becomes an immediate factor, but it is
something that both actors perform brilliantly. And this isn't as
simple as being able to stumble around or slur words. Dramatic
sequences involving violent arguments in a drunken state become the
major conflicts in the film and the at ions and words that are said in
these moments are the true colors of these characters. As it is said,
what we say and do in our drunkest moments are often times our most
honest.

But what is more important is those scenes in which Kate is sober or
trying to talk to Charlie about their relationship. The raw emotion and
power that Winstead displays is not only realistic and strong, it is
some of the most powerful acting we have seen from an actress this
year. While Winstead has been seen before in films such as Scott
Pilgrim vs, the World, The Thing, Live Free or Die Hard, and Final
Destination 3, Smashed is her coming out as a very serious and talented
actress. She absolutely blew me away this movie and deserves
recognition come award season.

To read the rest (IMDb form too short) visit:
http://custodianfilmcritic.com/smashed/
<|_=00=_|>
Pretty teacher Kate (Mary Elizabeth Winstead) and husband Charlie
(Aaron Paul) are a young married couple who are also alcoholics. When
Kate gets sick of waking up in strange places and peeing herself, she
decides to quit drinking and get help. But, Kate faces an uphill battle
as she gets resentment, not support, from her husband and to gain
sobriety she may loose everything. What I liked most about this indie
drama was that co-writer/ director James Ponsoldt avoids the
melodramatics that usually come with films of this nature and guides
his cast trough a real life situation and has them play real life
people complete with quirks and all. And as for his cast, they all give
good down to earth performances but, it is Winstead who owns the movie
as the troubled young woman who wants to change the downward spiral of
her life. She effectively portrays the frustration of her own behavior
and then then hurt and anger when she tries to change her life and
doesn't get the support she needs from those she cares about. Winstead
shows chops that she hasn't yet had the opportunity to show and she
gives a very real and effecting performance. True, I would like to have
seen more of the relationship between Kate and her AA sponsor, Jenny
(Octavia Spencer) and a subplot involving her vice principal, Dave
(Nick Offerman), who has a crush on her and introduces her to his AA
group, doesn't quite click but, this are minor points. Overall Smashed
is a solid and heartfelt drama that doesn't preach yet, doesn't make
light of it subject matter and gives a talented young actress a role
she can really shine in. Recommended for those who are looking for a
drama that's refreshingly un-Hollywood and want to see Winstead prove
she's more then a pretty face.
