
Idris Elba was the man, as a psychotic woman hating murderer who
escapes jail and through a series of events, cross paths with Terri,
played by Taraji P. Henson, who's was in a troubled marriage and
vulnerable to the killer's charms.

It Reminded me of the 1986 movie, Extremities with Farrah Fawcett as
the female victim being taken hostage by a criminal looking to steal
her "goodies" 

I thought No good deed was a lot more cleaver than most movies of this
kind. In certain places, it has to fall into line of genre's plot
(woman alone in the house without her man, then a scary bad boy comes
to the door and charms his way into the lonely women's house), but the
movie surprised me by putting a little ore substance into the female
victim, by making her life more interesting than usual, and it helps
having an Oscar nominee like Ms. Hensen play the role. A fact that was
not used to advertise the movie as much as it should have. Definitely a
better played out Victim than I've seen before. 

A decent plot and a great thriller. I recommend giving it a shot.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw a trailer for this movie, I immediately was reminded of
Obsessed which was a crappy rip off of Fatal Attraction a few years
back that also starred Idris Elba. Lo and behold, the movie comes to us
from the producer of Obsessed so it suddenly made sense why much like
Obsessed this was just another cookie cutter "thriller".

Good: I think Taraji Henson and Idris Elba are great actors and they do
what they can with the material which isn't much at all. I will say
that I want to see Elba in more villain roles although in better
movies. He has a very imposing stance and he could do wonders with the
right part. I do like that Henson at least fought back in a realistic
matter.

Bad: The movie is just very mediocre. It's not terrible, but I just
can't muster any real emotion for it whether it be anger or glee. The
plot is typical TV movie fluff with its attempt at suspense being
laughable along with the cheesy use of lightning and thunder to
describe something ominous. The story happens because Henson is smitten
with Elba, but yet she used to work with abused women cases and should
have known Elba was bad news because he spends the movie smiling and
then just staring and creep around the house. Leslie Bibb plays the
typical horny best friend and nothing beyond that. The movie lacks any
suspense and it isn't entertaining on a trashy level either. Then
there's the supposed twist is very predictable.

Overall, I like the actors involved, but the movie itself was so
average that it would be wise to just watch these actors' other movies.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie had no substance, it was one of the worst I have to say I've
seen so for in 2014. The storyline had a whole lot of holes, I can't
make sense out of nonsense. Poorly done, love Taraji though so I rated
solely on her. I have to give credit though for trying to put together
a thriller, but all of these are always the same ending, only watched
because the wife wanted to, without her this movie would have never
gotten my time at all. If this is your kind of thriller, don't let my
comment stop you from enjoying it. Those were just my thoughts on it.
Idris alba, and Taraji Henson , love them great actors wasted energy
however for them.
<|_=00=_|>
Look here is the skinny on this flick. It is so predictable I found
myself saying out loud (but quietly) what was going to happen next. I
mean really people can't these Hollywood money men find some better
quality movies to get behind to finance. Let's not forget this movie as
all the rest are a business. The business of INVESTING cash to produce
a movie with the hopes you will spend your entertainment dollars seeing
it so it makes them millions in profit. Don't let them make money on
this one or we will never get them to stop producing trash and fooling
us into thinking it's worth the price of a ticket and $15.00 popcorn.
Plot plot plot help me find something entertaining about this movie
that we don't know is going to happen before it happens. The acting is
average and if an academy award ever makes it to this movie it will be
because somebody paid somebody! Don't waste your money on this film you
will be disappointed. Go see Denzel instead!!!! :-)
<|_=00=_|>
If they can make 'em for white people, then I guess they can make 'em
for black people too. The "em" I am referring to is of course B-movie
thrillers, which also falls into the category of: horror/date night
fluff. In that same vein, "No Good Deed" is also predictable fluff;
like, killer in the house and the girl runs upstairs, kind of
predictable fluff. But I can't deny that I was fairly entertained by
"No Good Deed"; even as all logic (ALL LOGIC) flew out the window about
20 minutes in, when (on a dark and stormy night) a black woman lets a
strange black man into her home and offers him a change of clothes.
Come on now; that would never happen. 

From the trailers alone "No Good Deed" stunk of a Tyler Perry
production; an insensitive black husband, his supremely intelligent yet
shockingly under-appreciated black wife, and a man with anger
management issues who is noticeably darker than the rest of the cast.
Even as the film began, everything about it had the markings of
something pretty "basic". An escaped convict (Idris Elba) with a
history of violence towards women, harasses a woman (Taraji P. Henson)
who is conveniently home alone. Yes, there is a twist at the end that
is a bit too clever for this premise, but aside from that, the
structure of "No Good Deed" is quite similar to films we've all seen
before; only this time targeted at an African American audience, with
Henson playing the part of the dumb blondthat is, until she says:
"ENOUGH!" That said, the only thing which separates a "basic" movie
from a watchable movie with a basic premise, is the filmmaker's
execution and the actors involved.

While it is somewhat curious as to why Elba would star in a movie like
this at this point in his career (and also hold a producer credit) for
how one dimensional his character is, he does sell it with a
performance that is brutally and relentlessly intimidating. As for the
supporting cast, it is what it is. Henson screams when she is supposed
to and acts sassy when Idris gives her just a bit too much lip. The
script also contains more than enough "urban" attitude, which, along
with Elba's menacing presence going toe to toe with Henson's "I'm Every
Woman" performance, gives audiences those yell at the screen moments
they paid to see. 

The direction from Sam Miller is really what makes this movie what it
is, as he simply does what he is asked to do, delivering a surprisingly
high amount of tension throughoutand nothing more. Now, I don't want
to heap too much praise on Miller's work, since what he has made is
simply the cinematic equivalent of a peanut butter and jelly sandwich.
But there is something to be said for a well-executed peanut butter and
jelly sandwich. 

Final Thought: At the end of the day "No Good Deed" may only work to
reinforce the of stereotype of the "angry black man", but due to a good
hour of well-constructed, tension driven sequences, followed by a few
chase sequences, I fail to see how anybody wouldn't find this
experience entertaining on some B-movie level. At the very least, "No
Good Deed" is far far FAR more entertaining than the latest Kevin Hart
movie or the annual "Tyler Perry Presents: Black People Acting a Fool"
production.
<|_=00=_|>
I read a lot of reviews before watching, and truly was surprised as
this movie was MUCH better than the detractors let on. The acting is
great, the storyline, though part of a formulaic genre, is well thought
out and moves at a great pace, the dynamic of
action/release/suspense/reveal is well timed, and unless you're
unbelievably difficult to entertain, you'll not want to be interrupted
during any part of this film. Are there plot holes? We debated this and
decided it's truly up to your point of view, but the events are
actually all completely plausible. Summarily, unless you go into movies
for the sole intent of picking them apart and finding things to not
like, I guarantee you will be surprised, uncomfortable, freaked out,
worried, excited, and ultimately entertained by No Good Deed.
<|_=00=_|>
The story portrayed in this film is pretty much spelled out in the
trailer. Crazy escaped convict terrorizes a woman and her kids. That's
pretty much it, but there is a nasty little twist in the story that I
did not see coming (although I did have a feeling). You know. When you
ask yourself "surely it isn't this" and come to find out . Oh yes, it
is. I have to give Colin (Indris Elba) a lot of credit for playing it
super cool to make his way into the house. Although you knew he was the
"bad" guy who is eventually going to snap, you kind of find yourself
liking him for a little while (with his fine self). Terri (Taraji P.
Henson) was a relatively smart women who made some serious errors at
the beginning of the film, but had I not known in advance what was
going to happen, I probably would not have thought that she did
anything wrong. She was just trying to be nice and do the right thing.
Meg (Leslie Bibb) is Terri's best friend and she drove home the point
that no one knows you better than your best friend. At first I thought
that she was going to be a little ditzy, but she proved me wrong.
Jeffrey (Henry Simmons) is Terri's husband who does not seemed to be
vested in the relationship. This is very apparent right from the
beginning. I went to the 2nd showing on the day the film was released
and I have to say that the theater was pretty well populated. The one
thing that I have to say about seeing a film with a diverse crowd is
that folks talk (out loud) to the people on the screen (myself
included). Toward the end of the film I heard myself saying "how does
she think that's going to work" and then immediately after that I said
"why does he think that worked"... you'll see what I mean when you go
to see it. Other than that, there are three reasons why I liked this
film., the great lead characters, the consistent flow of the film and
finally the whole story was told in around 90 minutes. This is director
Sam Miller's first attempt at a widely distributed feature film and I
think that he did a pretty good job. I would recommend it to a friend.
<|_=00=_|>
Idris Elba and Taraji P. Henson have squandered their considerable
thespian talents on "No Good Deed," a half-baked, woman-in-jeopardy,
home invasion thriller that springs few surprises during its ephemeral
84-minutes. Ironically, Elba and Henson shared credit as executive
producers, but they didn't serve themselves adequately enough with this
mediocre but atmospheric crime drama. Despite some genuinely
suspenseful moments in this PG-13 rated tale, veteran television
director Sam Miller and "96 Minutes" scenarist Aimee Lagos ask us to
believe that a former lawyer who dealt with cases concerning violence
against women would behave as naïvely as Henson's hare-brained heroine
does. A suburban housewife and mother with two children, one of whom is
an infant, Terri Granger quit her job as a prosecutor who represented
battered women only to become a battered woman. The conduct of Henson's
damsel-in-distress will make your jaw drop in sheer disbelief. It is
difficult to believe that a woman, who once prosecuted vicious felons
like the criminal Elba plays with such chilling intensity, could behave
in such a foolhardy fashion. Less back-story with regard to Henson's
Terri Granger would have been better than more. Had she simply been
little more than a housewife, her actions would have been more
credible. Meantime, Elba is suitably menacing as a charismatic but
ruthless predator. Early on, a parole board member describes Elba's
serial killer character as a "malignant narcissist." Naturally, Miller
and Lagos amass all the surefire suspense elements as well as the
clichés to heighten the experience. Of course, movies like "No Good
Deed" dispense with realism as readily as they exploit the artifice
designed to make you squeeze your fists with white-knuckled tenacity.
The robust cast and the nerve-racking predicaments that their
characters wind up in are the kind of fodder that inflames audiences.

"No Good Deed" opens with Colin Evans (Idris Elba of "Prometheus")
appearing before a Tennessee parole board. Authorities believe Colin
murdered five women, but they have no evidence to convict him for any
of those heinous crimes. Instead, they have managed to bust him for
manslaughter. During a brawl in a bar, he killed an adversary. Since
then Colin has served five years in the big house, and he touts his
record as an exemplary inmate who taught other inmates how to read.
Nevertheless, a skeptical parole board refuses to accommodate him.
While he is being hauled back to prison, Colin disarms one guard and
then murders both of them. You'd think that prison officials would have
assigned more competent cops to guard him, but then we wouldn't have
"No Good Deed." Later, Colin tracks down a former girlfriend, Alexis
(Kate del Castillo of "Bordertown"), and strangles her in a fit of
jealous rage in her own house after she lies to him about flirting with
another man at an Atlanta restaurant. Colin appropriates her vehicle,
but he crashes it during a noisy thunderstorm. Despite from his
inferior driving skills, Colin qualifies as a dangerous but resourceful
villain with no qualms about murder most foul. The same cannot be said
for our heroine.

Terri Granger (Taraji P. Henson of CBS-TV's "Person of Interest") finds
herself at home alone with her two children, young daughter Ryan
(newcomer Mirage Moonschein) and a baby boy Sam, after her husband
Jeffrey (Henry Simmons of "Taxi") takes a trip to visit his ailing
father. Since Jeffrey is leaving her, Terri has invited her closest
friend, Meg (Leslie Bibb of "Iron Man"), to spend the evening with her.
They plan to treat it like a girl's night out. Colin stumbles onto
Terri's front porch with a cut on his temple, and our heroine literally
lets him have the run of her house! Colin does everything that he can
to lull Terri into a false sense of security. Terri even cleans up the
cut on Colin's temple. Of course, the familiarity with which she
receives this stranger is hopelessly absurd. Meg flirts with Colin as
he lies to them about himself. Unfortunately, Colin grows impatient
with Meg when Terri is out of the room and gives her the same treatment
that he gave his girlfriend. At this point, Colin brandishes a pistol
and forces Terri to pack her kids into their car and give him a ride.
Later, during their ride, Terri flashes her high beams at a policeman.
Incredibly enough, Colin doesn't notice this act, and the cop pulls
them over. The cop asks Terri to step out of her car. Terri has every
opportunity to explain her predicament, but she fears that Colin will
kill her infant son. This makes you wonder why Terri put herself in
such a predicament. Impatiently, Colin takes matters into his own hands
before Terri can do anything else to sabotage his plans.

Veteran television director Sam Miller has a knack for staging action,
and he makes this implausible hostage thriller look exciting.
Ultimately, everything boils down to a one-on-one fight between Terri
and Colin. They struggle for possession of Colin's automatic pistol in
a darkened room at another house. Essentially, this is a David and
Goliath bout. Nevertheless, desperation turns Terri into a superior
adversary, and their fight is a down and dirty match. Inevitably, just
when she thinks she has Colin down for the count, he pulls a
"Halloween" and catches a second wind. Nothing about "No Good Deed"
except its big twist reveal in the final scene is groundbreaking. Sure,
that surprise at the end will make you turn your head, but it
constitutes more of a cheat than a coincidence because there is no way
that you can see it coming. Again, Terri's lack of common sense puts
her at risk more than anything skillful that Colin did. "No Good Deed"
lives up to its title. Interestingly enough, the studio that produced
this lackluster thrillerScreen Gemshad so little faith in it that
they delayed its release for two years.
<|_=00=_|>
WHY do they make movies like this?? I'll admit that sometimes I just
like to watch a movie with a simple plot but this one was BAD. Take
every cliché you can think of, roll them into 1 and you've got "No Good
Deed." If this was billed as a comedy/thriller movie parody it would
have been funny but otherwise, emotionless. Here are just a few of the
predictable scenes from this movie (inserting SPOILER here would be a
paradox).

1. Ominous thunder throughout suspenseful scenes.

2. Ditzy/sex crazed best friend used for fodder. 

3. 5 foot something female fending off a 6 foot something male with
random objects laying around the house. 

4. Convict locked up tight with shackles taking over a transport van.

5. Female temporarily knocks out the bad guy during a struggle, then
turns and runs upstairs.

And those are just off the top of my head, the bottom line is to go
clean your house, water your lawn, or have a nap rather than waste your
time with this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Even after having watched the trailer you'll be in for lots of
surprises. There were a few things I didn't see coming, subtle twists
and turns which caught me off guard. Idris and Taraji have great
chemistry on screen, you want to watch them and you don't get bored
watching them.

I love to see films with black people in them, which have nothing to do
with race or where race isn't even mentioned once. You literally could
have placed any one from any ethnic background in any of those
characters and it would have worked.

This movie re-enforced to me that Taraji and Idris are really good
actors, I got my money's worth. I went to see the movie at the Grove
where there are lots of tourists and people from all over the country,
who have normal reactions to what they see on the screen. The audience
as a whole cared a lot about Taraji's character, they cheered for her
when she was winning and they had natural human responses that were
real, and so at the end of the day, that says to me all the people
involved in making this movie did their job. Seeing the film there got
me avoiding the jaded Hollywood movie "experts" on cinema with their
snobby intellectual bully b.s, I was with regular people at a movie
theater, the reason actors make movies to begin with, the people who
are funding our industry with their hard earned dollars, not movie
critics who go the movies for intellectual stimulation instead of
reading a freaking book. You're gonna like Taraji's bff, she has a
great moment with Idris that has everyone who has a best friend going
"YOU TELL IT." 

I personally love to go see a movie and turn off my brain and enjoy
myself and you get to do this with this movie, it kept my attention
from beginning to end. Go see it, worth your money!
