
If I really paid attention to some stuffy movie critics I'd probably
never see another movie in my life. Reviews riddled with technical
jargon like screenplay this, and protagonist that bore me immensely
when I just want to know, "will I regret paying $6-12 for the movie?". 

With that being said let me tell you where I am coming from, the
perspective of a good ole regular 30 year old black lady who watches
more television then they should, and enjoys going to the movies at
noon because at that time I don't have to worry about some jack ass
propping their feet on the back of my chair. (and I can lay down across
3 seats).

Now to the task at hand, what did I think about Hit & Run? I thought is
was a good movie, I was entertained and did not regret purchasing the
movie ticket. 

OK, Whats the Movie About? 

Charlie is a self-named member of the witness protection program,
hiding out in a small rural town where he enjoys a simple life of love,
and days spent worrying over his buffoonish handler, Randy (Tom
Arnold). Charlie's happy world begins to crack when Annie is offered a
job developing her own curriculum at a university in Los Angeles  the
home of Charlie's criminal past, and a lot of bad people who want to
get even with him.

Trying to prove his love, Charlie dusts off his bad boy muscle car and
scoops Annie for a high-speed run to her LA job interview. But when
Annie's jealous ex-boyfriend Gil (Michael Rosenbaum) tries to undermine
the happy exodus, he unwittingly brings down all the wrong kind of heat
on the situation. Before long, Charlie and Annie's road trip is a
high-speed chase, complete with shootouts, buried treasure, anda dune
buggy.

Dax Shepard is funny to me, and so is Kristen Bell. The fact that Dax
and Kristen are a couple made their characters Charlie and Annie in the
movie have a charming chemistry that you can only get by smashing
(having sex) in real life. 

Being a lover of classic cars just seeing that classic Lincoln rev
around spoke to my soul. 

Dax wore rugged, outlaw, bad-ass with a gentle side, pretty well. So
well that he transcended from this lanky quirky white guy, to "hey, how
you doin". Also, This movie just made it official that it's impossible
for Bradley Cooper to be unattractive, even with a dredlock wig, and
some played out Oakley's, we was still looking' good. 

Yada yada yada yada...blah blah blah blah.... I like the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Not that many ratings yet, but how can this movie have a 6.1?? Serious?
I saw it in the sneak preview yesterday and had some great laughs,
certain parts are hilarious. Best of all, didn't knew anything about
this movie, so wasn't expecting anything... Turned out to be one of my
better movies this year so far! Some titles are hyped, like Batman The
Dark Knight Rises, and although I enjoyed it, this movie messed up my
emotions way more!The acting of the whole cast suits the flow and
spirit of this movie perfectly. Furthermore, I think Dax Shepard did an
outstanding job being both the director, writer and main character.
Must see!
<|_=00=_|>
I've never reviewed a movie before but had to for Hit & Run. My wife
and I feel like we just got home from a perfect first date. This is
just a feel good movie that leaves you feeling great hours after
watching it. Armed with only $2 million and some friends, Dax created
the perfect movie experience: non stop laughing, edge of your seat fun,
hot car chase scenes, great music, perfect casting, style and swagger,
all wrapped up in a watchable story.

Dax, please write/direct/star in another movie soon...Hollywood needs
to learn that talent trumps big budget any day of the week. And please
email me your ipod playlist!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I don't often write reviews so I'll keep this short. I watched this
expecting nothing more than something to waste a couple of hours.It
ended up being a real fun couple of hours though. Clever script
work..great character chemistry & fantastic musical score.I watched
this with my wife who is very hard to please and she was also
pleasantly surprised. I'm not saying this should win any awards but I
am saying for those of you who don't take every film you watch too
seriously .. it's a pretty cool little movie . Dax Shepard should give
himself a pat on the back for this.For a movie with a small budget it
manages to assemble a great cast and give more bang for your buck than
many big studios deliver.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a creative, original, funny, and action packed story, a
wonderful example of independent filmmaking. Dax Shepard was able to
get away with a $2 million budget by recruiting friends like Bradley
Cooper and (real life GF) Kristen Bell to act. The other main
characters, the cars, were largely his own.

The film has a True Romance feel, only infused into a chase movie. The
action set-pieces are fantastic. Simple, beautiful, effective. Slow
motion burnouts, lovingly filmed, fish tails, even one or two stunt
jumps. And I'm 99% sure there was no CGI at any point. Just good old
fashioned fast cars going fast. Seriously. Think of the last 10 minutes
of Death Proof extended to half a movie.

I didn't know Shepard before this, but he's a funny guy. In his
writing, in his content, in his delivery. At one point a redneck
onlooker struts up to his prized Lincoln Continental and asks if it has
nitrous. Dax's character Charlie matter of factly tells him, "Nitrous
is for fags. This has cubic inches," then drives away. But it's more
than just dialogue. Like when a wannabe tough guy bottoms out his
Pontiac Solstice leaving the driveway. Sometimes it's the subtle
things.

The movie got no marketing, and hardly anyone knows it's even in
theaters. Too bad. This is a hidden gem, required viewing for fans of
chase movies.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a woman who has to go to Los Angeles for an
interview. She runs into all sorts of trouble along the drive by her
boyfriend.

"Hit and Run" is a comedy that combines comedy, some action and lots of
cars. The prevailing mood of the film is very lighthearted, and the on
screen couple is convincing. I can see how Charlie really cares for
Annie with his dedication to taking Annie to her job interview. The
incompetent cop is funny, and Bradley Cooper's thug character is funny
as well. I am impressed by how, in the middle of all the mess, the
directors still manage to throw in subplots about anti-homophobia and
political correctness. I am also impressed by how many gay subplots get
mingled in a movie with cool car swerves. "Hit and Run" is a comedy
that is relatively different compared with the rest.
<|_=00=_|>
Dax Shepard is former getaway driver Charlie Bronson in Witness
Protection. However, he leaves it all to help his girlfriend (Kristen
Bell) get to Los Angeles. This leaves the feds and Charlie's former
gang in hot pursuit.

The plot is almost unimportant. It's just an excuse for Dax to have
some fun with his car. Dax and Kristen seem to have a lot of fun. That
chemistry saves this mess. Tom Arnold is incredibly annoying. There's
also Michael Rosenbaum and Bradley Cooper plus many many other
characters.

There was one funny scene of hilarious talk of prison rape worthy of a
Tarantino script. Other than that, you'd have to really love cars or
Dax driving the cars.
<|_=00=_|>
this movie is a lot of fun! the very best merit certainly is the
dialog. there are so many good lines, so many hilarious moments - the
often awkward dialog though is simply the winner. just to watch and
listen to a flood of meaningless and out-of-context lines in the most
inappropriate moments of the action is making this movie a candidate
for constant rewind-replay scenario (to put it in the streamline of the
movie's chatline).

of course the lines are not meaningless - the dialog seems very
carefully written so that every word and expression - bites! awesome,
and source of good fun.

the driving sequences are pretty good and intense as well. the
characters and their interactions make for surprising turns, which
simply enriches the 'viewing pleasure' :D 8 out of 10 very good,
professional production - quality 'comedy' - enjoy
<|_=00=_|>
Clearly a labor of love for Dax Shepard (he stars, writes, co-directs
and co-edits; and it's filmed in the more expensive 2:40 aspect ratio),
Hit And Run is better than it has to be. This isn't to say it's a great
entertainment (it has plenty of filler and Shepard's ambitious attempts
at character development, a la Tarentino, don't quite pan out) but it
is often fun to watch and the cars--and the chases--are cool. While too
much time is spent on drawn-out arguments between Shepard and his
significant other (in the film and, apparently, in real life, played by
Kristen Bell) and there's some negative dialogue regarding
homosexuality and race (note to Shepard: acknowledging homophobia and
racism in the dialogue doesn't simply make it permissible) it's not a
bad way to kill a couple of hours. Shepard must be a really popular guy
in Hollywood because a lot of the performers (high among them Bradley
Cooper) would not normally appear in a movie this B-grade.
<|_=00=_|>
While shopping at my local Best Buy, I saw a copy of Hit and Run
sitting on the shelf and I just decided to give it a try. I had nothing
to lose and nothing to really fear. I figured it would be a light
comedy with a lot of action to hold my attention for a good 90 minutes.
I came home, pressed play, and watched it. 

I don't really know how I feel about it. 

Its not a bad movie, per se. I certainly didn't have a bad time. I was
just puzzled at what I had just watched. Its a gooey rom-com with a few
intense car chase sequences, peppered with raunchy dialog. Just... so
weird! I'll give credit to Dax Shepard for making a totally original
slant on an otherwise overdone plot line. 

But then, once you get past the plot, it gets weirder. The acting, for
the most part, is decent. But sometimes, it gets downright terrible.
Take for instance, Tom Arnold. He literally shouts his entire dialog
and spends most of the movie running wildly around screen with a gun in
his hand. Why? I have no idea. Were they going for absurdist humor with
that character? or was Tom Arnold just coked up? Whatever the reason, I
grew to hate his character... a lot. 

Then, literally, for no reason whatsoever, we get two scenes involving
the main characters stumbling into an elderly orgy. What on god's green
earth was that all about? Its as if the movie was spliced together with
outtakes from a Sacha Baron Cohen movie, and they figured it would be
so shocking, that it just had to be in the movie for a good laugh. It
just sat there, dead on screen, in its wrinkly birthday suit. I didn't
laugh. 

Alright, enough with the questions. Lets get down to business. I
thought the movie potentially worked and I did laugh more times than I
ever thought I would. There is some really funny stuff in here, and its
worth checking out to catch them all. I liked Dax Shepard, considering
that he was channeling an Owen Wilson type performance. Kristen Bell is
always a pleasure to watch watch on screen. We also get a delightfully
bizarre performance from Bradley Cooper that entertained me a whole
lot. Especially the scene at the supermarket... what an absolutely
fantastic scene that was. 

All in all, Hit and Run is hit and miss, and definitely surreal at
times. But not a bad outing at the movies.
