
Lets start by saying that a script this gutsy and honest comes very
rarely. In Bollywood, where most film-makers are trying to sell
love-story scripts to general public, this movie defines love more
realistically than any other movie I have seen. The sheer pressure you
experience when your ego and ambition comes in between you and your
love. And in that pressure, some choices are made which cannot be
classified as right or wrong. Because, we, as audience see the two
lovers trying to solve the complicated maze and we get to see all the
right or wrong choices they make. But, we don't know what would happen
if we were to solve it ourselves.

I will admit that writing such script takes lot of guts and that is why
Sudhir Mishra deserves a bow. I don't really care what its IMDb rating
is but I am listening to Sudhir Mishra and he made a fan out of me
today. \m/
<|_=00=_|>
well,I am pretty sure this film doesn't fall in the idiotic and
senseless genre that thankfully salman khan akshay kumar brought in the
bollywood.

It's quite an intelligent and entertaining film.it shows stories from
both sides and not all a sexist film.it remains absolute neutral till
the very end. All the struggles to climb the ladder of success and the
pressure of the corporate world is wonderfully depicted here.Plus the
right amount of human emotions are shown.It fantastically displays the
love story and the Ego clashes between two successful individuals. Not
to say,it is meant for urban population but still a very good step in
right direction.Hardly any nonsensical dance numbers and all the songs
go very well with the story-line.(except one where a guy sings in an
award ceremony). Nonetheless,it is definitely a one. time watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Inkaar nahi Ikraar......!!!! After Yeh Saali Zindagi, Sudhir Mishra has
done another excellent job in his direction. Chitrangda Singh at her
best including Arjun Rampal! I'm so simply impressed! :) The story is
not only about Sexual harassment at work place but the relationships
people make to get better position and growth in their careers.

The movie screens the controversial topic how we interpret the
difference between flirting and harassment. Till the time it is being
enjoyed, it is allowed and we say it 'Fun working environment' but just
after fulfilling the requirement, the intentions change and convert
their faces to be Sexual Harassment and 'Tharkipana'. O_o 

I watched Akshay's starrer Aitraaz (2004) on the same topic, but Inkaar
tops the chart and without focusing on Male chauvinism or Female's
ambition, it depicts a neutral observation and confusions created in
'Working together relationships'.

The movie will be a sure flop on box office because it'll have only
specific set of patient viewers, though it's a very must watch
specially for them who observe/encounter people doing similar
activities . (9/10 rating) ^_^
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't much impressed by last week's Matru Ki...'s complex dialogs
and the story. So I hopped into a corner with my partner and tried to
perceive Sudhir Mishra's latest.

After watching some classics by him and most recently "Yeh Saali
Zindagi," I was expecting hell of a lot of things from him and the sexy
cast.

Lo and behold, a wonderful topic of sexual harassment (at the wake of
Indian dilemma of what to do with harassers, rapists & offenders) to
choose for a movie and not-so-bad story but what lacks and probably why
it didn't work out for my partner was she thought the topic was taken
to a state of hyperbole. While, I enjoyed the intricacy, but hated the
characterization and their levels.

"There is something towards the end that makes you hate it" well that
is what she said and, "There is something towards the end that makes
you love it" was my verdict.

Music is charming, direction is good, story is good and rest all film-
making factors are average. But what I had expected and what should
have probably worked for INKAAR is its lead actors furnishing a real
deal rather than self-absorbing a competitive and bumptious outlook
throughout the movie. While we know office politics need that type of
arrogance and pompousness, but... all the way till home - they are just
actual spoilers and result of bad thinking.

At the end of the day, Inkaar is for "give-it-a-try-we're-rich" type
serious cinemaholics and not for the "let's-watch-a-movie-and-have-fun"
crowd.

The thing I adore the most is it's brilliant narration and anti-climax
induced metaphor. Absolutely stunning lead players! Deepti Naval is
better and dynamic.

My partner's rating: 7.5/10 | Mine: 9/10

WATCH OUT FOR: the office kinkiness

Can be watched with a typical Indian family? MAYBE!

Language: Strong | Sex: Mild | Nudity: Mild | Foreplay: Very Strong |
Smoking: Mild | Alcohol: Strong | Mouth-Kiss: Mild | Drugs: Very Mild |
Violence: Mild
<|_=00=_|>
Director is very firm on what he wanted to show. Surprisingly good
acting by Arjun Rampal. Liked the plot. Director is successful in
making audience glued to seat to know the result. Story is really
neutral and being a corporate employee, you will find yourself
somewhere in the film. On top of that the subject is picked at very
right time as similar kind of news are being gossiped in society. I am
very sure that it wont be a blockbuster as audience nowadays demands
only "Masala" and time pass movies instead of quality movies. Although
this movie demands corporate class of audience, anyone can see this
just to feel the politics that goes on in private sector.

But Kudos to the team for making such effort.!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This film is really a gem. Why? because during its runtime of
2:07:19;not for once will you find yourself distracting to think of
something else than what is going on screen. It transported me to the
INKAAR conference room table along with the other characters. The story
is trimmed out of all excesses and is just right. The acting is more or
less good. It keeps you on the edge till the last moment thinking "SO
WHO'S WHAT?" So please if you can get your hands on this movie, don't
delay watching it; because its worth it! I gave it a 7 because, well, i
did not particularly like the ending was hoping for something different
than that.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a different kind of movie which boldly deals with a topic of
sexual harassment in workplace. It is done well and keeps you involved.
If you are a guy and are drifting away from the plot, don't worry.
Chitrangda Singh will keep your eyes glued. She is excellent as always
and looks excellent. Her dressing sense is great and she looks very
classy. 

Arjun Rampal's acting is where it's always been, and yet he was not as
annoying as I find him otherwise. He is also given some good one-liners
in the movie and has done a decent job. Overall the plot is
interesting. Oh, did I mention that Chitrangda Singh totally rocks ! 

No idea why the IMDb rating is low. I and my friends found the movie
very good. I recommend you watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
Inkaar (which translates to "Refusal" in English) is a 2013 Hindi film
written and directed by renowned Indian filmmaker Sudhir Mishra. Inkaar
stars Chitrangada Singh and Arjun Rampal in the lead roles. While this
is the third Sudhir Misha film that stars Chitrangada Singh in the
lead the other two being Hazaaron Khwaishein Aisi (2003) and Yeh Saali
Zindagi (2011)it's the first time that Arjun Rampal has teamed up with
Mishra.

In Inkaar, Sudhir Mishra puts the spotlight on the highly contentious
issue of sexual harassment in corporate circles. The movie tries to
define the term "sexual harassment" by highlighting the complexities
associated with it. The greatest challenge is to draw the line between
flirtation and harassment. Once that is taken care of the next
challenge is to fathom the reality that, contrary to the popular
belief, both the sexes are equally prone to sexual harassment. And
that's where the subjective element comes into the picture. Who's the
victim? Who's the accused? Thus, it becomes a real nightmare situation
to deal with. As a senior female lawyer aptly describes in the movie,
"It's often much easier to prove rape than sexual harassment". The
story of Inkaar presents one such case of alleged sexual harassment.

As the hearing progresses, it becomes more and more difficult to
discern who is speaking the truth and who is not. While the versions of
the accused and the victim only differ slightly there is enough
deviation to perplex the most astute of minds. The manner of
proceedings, though completely alien to Indian cinema, is strikingly
similar to Japanese filmmaker Akira Kurosawa's groundbreaking
masterpiece Rashomon (1950), which is widely regarded as a cinematic
treatise on the subjectivity of truth.

Overall, Inkaar despite its flaws is a commendable work of cinema that
brings to the fore some serious issues concerning the corporate
culture. Through the microcosmic world of an advertisement agency,
Mishra presents to us the pitiful tale of human detachment that's
slowly becoming a reality. Inkaar is brilliant from the technical point
of view. The editing is absolutely brilliant and the same can be said
about its music. The acting is above average. Mishra elicits a
remarkably strong performance from Arjun Rampal. Chitrangada Singh is
ever so delightful as the dusky, sensual Maya Luthra. Deepti Naval
cameo is a major highlight of the movie. Apparently, Naval replaced
Mishra's ex- wife Sushmita Mukherjee who, because of her tight
television schedule, failed to spare any dates for the movie. Saurabh
Shukla makes his presence felt in an interesting item number that he
gets to perform in the movie. The lead actors get good support from the
supporting cast. Inkaar with its slow character development, ambiguous
themes, and deceptive direction is ought to disappoint an average
viewer whose sole purpose is entertainment, but an intelligent viewer
who is patient enough to wait for the different layers to slowly get
unwrapped will be rewarded. 7.5/10

A more in-depth review can be read at:

http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Inkaar turns out to be an impeccable movie to be made on issue as
serious as sexual harassment. Hindi cinema has created very few movies
on corporate issues (Corporate, Turning 30 to name a few). Inkaar
undoubtedly will lead this chart. the storyline is very tightly written
so is the screenplay, leaving viewers stick to their seats till the
end. as far as acting is considered, everyone played their part
beautifully, Chitrangada and Arjun Rampal looked graceful,
complementing each other. It is very obvious here to say that Sudhir
Mishra has created a gem (after Ye Saali Zindagi, another very good
paisa vasool movie). Surely a must watch for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
I am usually very picky with Indian movies and rarely have a
favourite.... and despite the reviews I'd heard and read, this movie
was definitely time well spent.

I think vital to any good movie is not only obviously a great script,
but also great chemistry and acting - and this movie did not disappoint
in all. I loved the detailed layering the actors gave to their
characters and made them believable and realistic.

The only bad thing I would like to add is I think more background
profile on the main characters would have been nice, as well as perhaps
more scenes on how the romance starts in the first place.

But other than that, I liked this movie enough to come on here and
review it. So do give this movie a chance and pay no mind to the
critics. It may not be the BEST movie you have ever seen, but I can
guarantee you a good storyline with great acting especially if you are
into these angst-filled reality-based stories.
