
"The Finest Hours" (2016 release; 117 min.) brings the telling, "based
on a true story" we are reminded, of a daring rescue attempt at sea. As
the movie opens, it is "Wellfleet, MA, November 1951", and we get to
know two Coast Guarders who are out on a double date. Bernie (played by
Chris Pine) is immediately smitten by Miriam *played by Holiday
Grainger). The movie then shifts to February 17, 1952, where Bernie and
Miriam are attending a party, and they decide to get married in April.
Later that night, as a nor'easter is bearing down, the Pendleton tanker
is in serious trouble, and before we know it, Bernie is ordered to
assemble a crew and go out to find any survivors of the Pendleton. To
tell you more would spoil your viewing experience, you'll just have to
see for yourself how it all plays out.

Couple of comments: this is a big budget movie from Disney Studios,
directed by Craig Gillespie ("Lars and The Real Girl"; "Million Dollar
Arm"). If you have seen the movie's trailer (which as been inescapable
in the theaters in recent weeks), you know exactly what you are in for:
a bigger-than-life, against-all-odds rescue attempt of the crew of the
Pendleton tanker, which has split in two, by a four man crew of the
Coast Guard in Chatham, MA. Don't ask me how the Pendleton's remaining
half tanker doesn't sink! I think it has something to do with the
boat's balancing tanks, but in the end it doesn't matter, as we are
here to witness some of the wildest open sea disaster scenes you'll
ever see. In a sense, this reminds of "Titanic", except that the action
scenes are pumped up and on steroids. Chris Pine (as Bernie) and Casey
Affleck (as the Pendleton's main guy) are fine, but to be honest, they
and the rest of the gang are all second fiddle to the special effects.
I know that it's all CGI, yet it looks so darn realistic! The movie has
a great orchestral score, courtesy of veteran composer Carter Burwell
(his score for "Carol" received an Oscar nomination). Also make sure to
stay through the movie's end titles, as we then get a bunch of period
pictures from the Boston Globe and other news sources with the real
life people from the events (and likely the source of the costuming for
the film). Last but not least, this is released both in 2D and 3D, but
just know that the movie was shot in 2D and then converted into 3D (I
saw it in 2D). Bottom line: "The Finest Hours" is a good ol' fashioned
disaster-and-rescue drama that is much better than the "experts" would
have you believe.

"The Finest Hours" opened nationally this weekend, and the Friday
evening screening where I saw this at here in Cincinnati was attended
okay but not great. somewhat to my surprise. Regardless, if you are in
the mood for an effects-heavy but very realistic disaster-and-rescue
movie, I encourage you to check this out, be it in the theater, on
Amazon Instant Video or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray (although a movie of
this kind just begs to be seen on the big screen). "The Finest Hours"
is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
<|_=00=_|>
This director has pushed the bounds of new camera angles. The story was
brought to life in a very dramatic way.

A story about people who run into burning buildings when were all
running out. Told in a new novel way, that draws you in.

This movie riveted me to the seat, read the amazon reviews for the
book...same thing.

I've been very suspicious of Disney movies recently and will only let
my kids watch them after I've seen them. This movie is safe for the
family, a little to intense for the young. But it is the way movies
should be made to create role models for the youth to emulate. Real
Men, Real Heroes I believe there is a move to discredit movies like
this.

I'm been on sail boats in waves 1/4 the size in this movie and I was
wondering if I was going to make it.
<|_=00=_|>
Takes place in the early 1950's where a giant storm dominates the seas
by breaking a tanker truck in half, with only a few hours left to
survive, the crew id does what they can survive. A rescue ship is sent
to try and get to them, but the question is will they ? 

I love the early 50's look, it captures it so perfectly. Everybody
gives a good performance, almost nobody stands out. The storms scenes
are also well shot, you'll feel caught up in the storm also. It keeps
you on the edge of your seat. It's easy to compare this to The Perfect
storm(2000), it has the same feel to it. I hope you won't be
disappointed by this.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. The U.S. Coast Guard has played a
role in many movies over the years, but only a few have placed this
service branch directly in the heart of the story Â… most recently The
Guardian (2006), which was little more than a cheesy, too-talkative
water-based rip-off of Top Gun. Director Craig Gillespie (Lars and the
Real Girl, 2007) takes a much different approach as he presents a look
at one of the most legendary and heroic real-life rescues in Coast
Guard history.

The Oscar-nominated writing team behind The Fighter (2010): Scott
Silver, Paul Tamasy, and Eric Johnson have collaborated on the
screenplay based on the book from Casey Sherman and Michael J Touglas.
It's a worthy tribute (and clearly Disney-influenced) to what is
described as the greatest Coast Guard small-boat rescue. It combines a
boat-load (sorry) of tension-filled ocean-based sequences with some
pretty interesting character-based sub-plots within a Massachusetts
community that has become all too familiar with storm-based
catastrophes.

Chris Pine stars as Bernie Webber, an awkwardly shy and obsessive
rule-follower, who has lived under a cloud of doubt ever since a
previous rescue mission failed, resulting in the death of a local
fisherman/husband/father. We first meet Bernie as he bungles through a
first date with Miriam (Holliday Grainger, a young Gretchen Mol
lookalike). The film then jumps ahead to 1952 when they become engaged
and Bernie is ordered into a questionable mission by his
"not-from-around-here" commanding officer Daniel Cluff (Eric Bana).
See, a huge storm has literally ripped apart not one, but two giant
tankers, leaving crew members battling for survival. It should be noted
that Bana the Australian, tosses out a laughable southern accent that
is a joke within the movie and within the theatre (for different
reasons).

Bernie and his crew: Richard Livesay (Ben Foster), Andy Fitzgerald
(Kyle Gallner), and Ervin Maske (John Magaro), take off against all
odds in a too-small boat against too-big waves in a desperate attempt
to rescue the tanker crew that includes brilliant engineer Ray Sybert
(Casey Affleck) and characters played by John Ortiz and Graham
McTavish. Affleck excels as what can be termed a quiet leader. Of
course, we know how the story ends, but the heroic efforts against a
very powerful Mother Nature show-of-force make for compelling movie
watching.

The special effects are stout, though not be as spectacular as The
Perfect Storm (2010) or In the Heart of the Sea (2015), and it's the
human-factor that provides more than enough thrills, excitement, and
tension. In fact, the biggest issue I had was that I saw a 3-D version
which is an absolute disservice to the film. Most of the story takes
place at night and at sea, so the 3-D consequence of dimmed light and
muted colors results in a far too dark and dull look to the film. I
spent much of the movie sliding the 3-D glasses down my nose in a
simple attempt to enjoy a bit more brightness. The recommendation would
be to skip the higher-priced (money grabbing) 3-D version and take in
the more pleasing "standard" version.

Disney makes feel-good movies. Their target market is not cynics or the
overly critical among us. The romance pushes the "corny" meter, but
keeps with tradition of other Disney movies based on true stories like
The Rookie (2002) and Dreamer: Inspired by a True Story (2005). Keep
this in mind you'll likely find this one pretty entertaining. Stick
around for the closing credits as a slew of real photographs from the
actual 1952 event are displayed, as are photos of the real heroes from
that night.
<|_=00=_|>
The Finest Hours tells the harrowing and courageous true story of the
most daring rescue mission that the U.S. Coast Guard has, to this day,
ever had to accomplish. Starring Chris Pine, Casey Affleck, Ben Foster
and Josh Stewart, the film's cast is stacked to the brim with talent
but the director, Craig Guillesspe takes away from their efforts by
telling the story in the sappiest of ways. The film starts with Bernie
Webber (Chris Pine) on a blind date with his friend as he looks forward
to meeting Miriam (Holliday Grainger), the woman he has been talking on
the phone with for months on end. It is a sappy way to start the film
but that sappiness is soon discarded as soon as we are introduced to
the USS Pendelton and its crew. The crew, headed by Casey Affleck's
brilliant and film carrying performance as Ray Sybert, is in the midst
of a terrible winter storm and they struggle to maintain control of the
ship. After being battered by the brutal waves off of Nantucket, the
ship is split in two and must stay afloat until help arrives. The film
takes its shape during the scenes with the Pendleton and it's crew.
Casey Affleck gives a good performance that remains as one of the most
interesting of the film coupled with some truly gasp-worthy scenes of
suspense and action. This is one thing the film has going for it, it
has some truly breath taking action sequences that will leave you
clawing at your arm rest and holding your breath. While an abundance of
CGI is used, it still feels the way its supposed to. Cold and brutal.
While the film is no match for the conditions shown in The Revenant, it
still will make you shiver once or twice just looking at the weather
these brave souls have to go up against. While these sequences and
qualities make The Finest Hours a thoroughly watchable and enjoyable
film, unfortunately the film compromises, what could be, white knuckle
action and substitute it with a half-assed love story between Bernie
and Miriam that borders on annoying after the first hour and equally
annoying and poorly done Boston accents. The accents show Pine and
Grainger as the biggest culprits. Grainger's performance as Miriam is
annoying and wildly unrealistic and Pine is spineless in his rendition
of, what many consider, one of the bravest men that ever served in the
Coast Guard. Grainger's Miriam serves as more of a nuisance than a help
to the film, which is rather disappointing because the role screams for
a more able actress to take on the role and another screenwriter to
make her character more than just a poorly written female character. It
really throws the film for a loop, making it as lopsided as you can
get. Despite this, the film moves through its main storyline with
tenacity that is hard to match. One sequence in particular features the
rescue crew trying to pass over the Nantucket ocean bar, a point in the
ocean that features out going and incoming waves crashing against one
another. The sequence is harrowing, the pacing of it is brilliant and
the sheer intensity is one that the film can't seem to match for the
remainder of the film. The film, while it does get your heart pounding,
lacks character drama and depth. While we care about the characters, we
only care about the actors playing them. If lesser known actors were in
these roles, it would be clearer that the film could have used another
rewrite and a stronger female character. Overall, The Finest Hours is a
decent rescue film that serves its purpose of entertaining you but it
does little else in the way of separating it from every other film of
its type.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Finest Hours" presents three stories, or perhaps one story from
three perspectives. The stories are perhaps better described as
intersecting rather than interwoven as developments in each storyline
have relatively little effect on the other story lines other than
points of intersection. 

The most successful story is one of survival aboard a doomed ship in a
fierce storm. Casey Afflect delivers a brilliant performance, possibly
the best of his career, as an engineer who must win the respect of the
crew and devise a seeming impossible plan to ensure their survival. 

But the putative hero of the story is played by Chris Pine as a
disgraced seaman thrust into a leadership position who manages a heroic
rescue by alternatively slavishly adhering to regulations and blatantly
disregarding them, but steadfastly pressing on by sheer obstinacy and
succeeding by dumb luck. 

The least successful story is a romance between Pine's character and a
local girl who somehow manages to afford a car on a switchboard
operator's salary, walks through snowdrifts in high heels without
slipping or marring her shine, defies convention and embarrasses her
boyfriend by proposing marriage, and barges into the all-male preserve
of the Coast Guard station to demand that the commander commit an
unconscionable act of cowardice in an exchange that might have been
ghostwritten by the screenwriter's five- year-old daughter. 

Having never read the book, it's difficult to tell what parts were
embellished for dramatic impact, but much of the story seems hopelessly
contrived. Critical pieces of equipment (radar, compass, radio)
malfunction and miraculously return to service as if on cue. At one
point, a large group of bystanders race off in support of the rescue
effort and one expects them to activate certain items, but strangely
nobody does until the love interest does, almost as an afterthought,
and everybody else decides to follow suit, leaving the audience
wondering why they went there if they didn't intend to do it in the
first place. At another somebody shouts out a number referring to a
group of people he could not possibly have counted. 

This is another film that the #OscarsSoWhite and advocates of gender
pay parity would rather audiences not see. It's basically a story of
real men in the 1950s male-dominated era doing manly things while the
womenfolk stay at home being supportive, raising children and mourning
those who sacrificed their lives supporting their families. It was only
four years after Eisenhower ended segregation in the military and the
Coast Guard and various maritime labor unions were probably about as
integrated as the Ku Klux Klan. 

But this would never do in the twenty-first century when studios feel
pressured to compromise dramatic structure in favor of political
correctness. Consequently, two subplots seem to have been added and/or
expanded to provide more diversity for audiences who prefer diversity
over drama. One involves a black seaman whose cowardice results in the
death of a Caucasian who takes him under his wing. The second is the
romantic subplot, which is given roughly equal weight and screen time
with the two other through lines. The story is not particularly
interesting. The girl is a typical chick flick heroine Â– pretty but not
gorgeous, more cherubic than voluptuous, virtuous and steadfast to a
fault, with an anachronistic feminist streak. Both subplots could have
been easily eliminated. Perhaps the film would not have been quite the
critical or commercial disappointment if they had been sharply trimmed
or eliminated. 

The theme and moral seem weak. A theme concerning luck and happenstance
undermines some of the effect, as do several plot contrivances, such as
the equipment malfunctions. The episode is supposedly one of the
greatest sea rescues in history, but it's presented as the consequence
of doggedly plodding along in blind subservience to duty rather than
anything one would ordinarily equate with heroism.

Technically, the film is top shelf. The period props, costumes,
settings and make-up all seem authentic. There is a refreshing lack of
distracting jiggly-cam shots. The special effects seem realistic. It
lays on the schmaltz fairly heavily at points, but what can one expect
from Disney? 

It might have been more compelling if it had concentrated on the
survival story, eliminated the love story and trimmed the rescue story.
<|_=00=_|>
The FINEST HOURS is a rip-roaring, edge of your seat action thriller
that will keep you guessing all the way to the end.

There....that should get me on the poster.

That said, I will have to admit that I had low to middling expectations
going into this film and it exceeded my expectation in almost every
way.

Starting with the Cast. Chris Pine (good ol' Cap't Kirk) stars as
Bernie Webber a mid-level Coast Guard officer who is flung into the
forefront when an oil barge splits in half in very rough sees during a
storm. Pine presents Webber not as a square-jawed hero, but a real
person with doubts and insecurities but a strict code of ethics and
when his Capt. (the always capable Eric Bana) sends him out for what
could be a suicide mission, he goes out.

While Pine holds down half of this movie, Casey Affleck holds down the
other half as the leader of the group of survivors on the oil tanker.
Normally, I am not a big fan of Affleck's work, but in this movie, I
sure am. He is a man of few words and tells much with his expression.
If there is a "squared jawed hero" in this movie, it is Affleck.

These two are supported by a veritable who's who of "that guy" actors.
Ben Foster, John Ortiz, Michael Raymond James and good ol' Abraham
Benrubi are just the tip of the iceberg, so to speak, of wonderful
character actors filling the roles of other Coast Guard members and
crewmen of the doomed ship.

Only Holliday Grainger as Pine's strong-willed fiancÃ© fails for me, but
I blame a weak written character more than her acting for that one.

But, make no mistake, it is the action that makes this movie exciting.
From the opening where the oil ship splits in half through the attempt
to get out to the ocean to find the doomed ship to the actual rescue
itself, I was on pins and needles, literally vaulting myself up out of
my seat to get over a wave at one point. Director Craig Gillespie, not
known as an action director, does a nice job of leading us through
these scenes, I am anxious to see what he takes on next. I hope it is
another action flick.

Is it a great film? No. The opening (after the tanker accident) drags
and the movie bounces around in tone trying to find out what kind of
movie it wants to be, but once Pine and company goes out to sea to
rescue, the movie zips along just fine.

7 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank (of Marquis)
<|_=00=_|>
The finest hours is obviously made by talented screenplay writers,
actors, editors etc...it is directed professionally no argue there.
However for anyone who has ever been more than a day at sea or anyone
from a seafaring community this film is impossible to watch. Every
single minute contains inaccuracies ranging from minor details like
getting the equipment of that time wrong, to outrageously unrealistic
mis en scene. This film simply gets it wrong on conditions at sea,
groups or individual characters, the language that would have been
used, the actions that men would and would not take in heavy weather
conditions, group behaviour, ships hierarchy, use of instruments.... It
is hard to watch characters perform actions that would get them killed
almost instantly in reality and there is a minimum level of realism
required to any story. Please get it right next time Disney. 2 points
out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This film starts kinda slow and unrelated to the story ( you expect to
see) and it is rather slow paced at the beginning, but soon it gets
more packed with action and rests until the end.

I enjoyed the film. It was even touching at the end. The fact that it
is based on the true story does give it a plus. The breaking of a ship
( two, in fact) in haft because of the storm was really wow! I really
got into the scene when they showed the first breaking of the ship. It
was intense and really well done. I guess I liked those scenes which
were filmed inside of the ship and all the hard work being done to
prevent the sinking of it that caught my attention the most and the
ones I really enjoyed. However, the relations between the sailors ( in
the ship and at the land were somewhat superficially done and yes, you
get that some of them are not liking each other, but, why is that is
not rally explained and I though it should have been)

The love story that also goes parallel to the disaster at sea is
sometimes sweet but most of the time is kinda blah and maybe it should
have been cut in entirety from the film. It does add something to the
film, but not that much in reality. But I guess it is important as it
is one of the true facts.

All in all, not bad. I give it a rating eight!
<|_=00=_|>
The effects in this movie were pretty spectacular. Most of the water
scenes were actually filmed really well, and they had a lot of
intensity. However for the most part, the rest of the film really falls
flat. The characters felt incredibly underdeveloped, and a lot them
felt very unnecessary. The back story that was given to the characters
was incredibly boring and didn't feel at all important. None of this
compares to the overly boring love story between Chris Pine and
Holliday Grainger. It was highly unnecessary and it felt like they were
jamming it onto the audience, it really didn't feel natural. Every time
the film would jump back to Grainger's character on shore, I would
immediately become bored and annoyed. The production value was very
impressive, and it had a lot of intensity the way it was filmed. This
unfortunately doesn't make up for the boring back-story, the unneeded
love story and the underdeveloped characters. It could have been really
good, but it only became an okay film. It's very forgettable.
