
Guardians of the Galaxy is nothing short of an amazing movie. If
there's anything I can say, it's that it is the best superhero movie I
have seen. Not only does it have the impressive set pieces and enough
action to last you a lifetime, it has an emotional core and you
actually get to care about each and every single character. Overall
this movie is filled with all the required thrills and spills and is a
first class action movie. It also has a great mixture of comedic value
and a deal of seriousness. 

The film's unlikely hero is Quill (Chris Pratt), an eccentric
gunfighter in the Han Solo mould who we meet stealing a metal orb
coveted by the evil warlord Ronan. When he dispatches his top assassin,
the green- skinned Gamora (Zoe Saldana), to recover the artifact, the
pair find themselves locked up, along with the galaxy's most unlikely
bounty hunters Â– a gun-toting raccoon (Bradley Cooper) and his sidekick
(Vin Diesel) who just happens to be a walking tree. All the actors do a
great job at portraying there characters, they feel real beings. You
get to know about them and their struggles and you become attached to
them. Every character in the movie got their time to shine, especially
Rocket Raccoon who is voiced perfectly by Bradley Cooper. Everyone is
pitch perfect in their roles even Batista! 

For those that want specifics: effects were top notch, acting was
excellent, story lines were compelling, the comedy was perfect 99.5% of
the time and surprise there were a lot of one line typical superhero
zingers that worked really well. What really can't be stressed enough
is just how insanely fun and entertaining Guardians of the Galaxy is
for literally its entire two-hour-plus run-time. I still have a hard
time wrestling with who was my favorite actor in this. all in all, the
film is brilliantly well done, action scenes are engrossing and
genuinely done, you genuinely worry about certain characters and I for
one was thrilled with it. Go see this.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember sitting in Hall H at Comic-Con two years ago, when Marvel
first announced Guardians of the Galaxy. This came on the heels of the
title reveals for Captain America: The Winter Soldier and Thor: The
Dark World, and my initial reaction was one of utter confusion. What
the hell was Guardians of the Galaxy? I was completely unfamiliar with
the source material, and upon learning that the team featured a
gun-wielding raccoon and a fighting tree creature whose could only
speak a single phrase, I was even more puzzled.

Fast forward to Comic-Con 2013, when James Gunn appeared onstage in
Hall H to showcase the first trailer for the film. It was so unlike
anything Marvel had ever done before, so far outside the box that I
immediately fell in love with it and couldn't wait to see more.
Although that first trailer was well-received by the Comic-Con
audience, the general public seemed to be scratching their heads in
much the same way that I had when the film was first announced. Marvel
fans would love this, no doubt, but could this bizarre little sci-fi
romp with a cast of unknown characters actually work?

The answer is a resounding "yes," as Guardians of the Galaxy is not
only an exceptionally well-made comic-book film, but an exceptionally
well- made film, period. It's a sprawling space opera with a host of
memorable characters, a joyous sci-fi romp through beautifully realized
worlds, wildly inventive action sequences, and an almost nonstop
barrage of humor and fun. The protagonists are a bizarre assembly of
losers and misfits, with the CG-created Rocket and Groot providing some
of the most emotional and human moments of the film, and it's all
brilliant. Marvel should be applauded for allowing Gunn the opportunity
to realize his vision, because rest assured, this film wouldn't have
been nearly as good with someone else at the helm.

Guardians of the Galaxy has a distinct personality that sets it apart
from other Marvel offerings, yet there are enough recognizable elements
to remind audiences that it exists in the same world. Clocking in at
just under two hours, the film maintains an impressively well-balanced
pace, avoiding the problem of over-inflation that many superhero films
fall victim to. I can't think of a single moment when I wasn't
completely enthralled with everything that happens on screen, and as
soon as the credits began to roll I was ready to watch it all over
again.
<|_=00=_|>
I entitle my review A New Hope as I walk out of the cinema feeling like
I have just watched the Star Wars of our generation!

As a huge Marvel fan (both comics and film) I was delighted to hear
this film was getting made with the perfect choice of Guardians and
what a perfect cast to play them. The biggest surprise for me was Dave
Bautista who I thought was only cast for his size but his delivery was
spot on for Drax. Chris Pratt was hilarious whilst still excellent at
delivering some of the films most emotional scenes.

CGI in this film was super, there's nothing I hate more than too much
CGI in a film but it was so good in Guardians that I was completely
lost in it. Never have a seen space look so good, the battles were
incredible and Groot and Rocket never looked out of place (aside from
being a tree and raccoon).

Gunn is the perfect director for this, his tone, his balance of comedy,
action and emotion blended perfectly and directing GOTG would have been
no easy job. DC are still trying hard to get Justice League going,
Marvel just made a film with a talking tree and Raccoon and it was
AWESOME!!!

Not a bad performance all round and comic fans will be happy with
certain nods and winks scattered throughout. Probably my top Marvel
film yet, it has the fresh new feeling the first Iron Man had with all
the action and humour of The Avengers. 10 stars from me, even if your
not a comic book or sci-fi fan, this movie has something for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Expectations: surpassed - and they were pretty damn high to begin with.

Excitement: met - after watching the teasers, the clips, and after
Captain America the Winter soldier I was crossing my fingers Marvel
were on a roll.

Face: still trying to recover - you know when you go to the cinema to
see a comedy ( a film designed to make you laugh ) and you feel like an
idiot for paying for the ticket as you were forcing most of the
laughter in the company of your friends? This is a film that it's
genuinely easy to laugh about: 

The humour is so subtle because the characters are so subtle - they're
not too animated, they're not too stereotypical and they are NOT what
we've come to expect from traditional superheroes and THAT'S WHY THIS
FILM WORKS SO WELL! Regardless if you're a Marvel fan or simply a fan
of movies in general this is an experience you will welcome as it's new
and refreshing to a sci-fi genre which really needed something new and
refreshing and with great performances, stunning visuals and a barrel
of laughs mixed with the right amount of action this was a real treat
to watch.

Thank you Marvel Studios.
<|_=00=_|>
Great expectations before the film, definitely, and they really paid
off. Guardians of the Galaxy is one of the best Marvel films to date,
and a really good sci-fi at that too. The film is strong on so many
levels, outstanding characters, great worlds, is emotional and
humorous.

Peter Quill, or Star Lord as he likes to call himself, is a
quick-witted man of Earth thrown into the far reaches of galaxy, who
has stolen an artifact that everyone seems to want. By accident he
stumbles upon four other characters, Gamora the assassin, Drax the
Destroyer, Rocket the enhanced raccoon and Groot the humanoid tree, and
the five of them form an unlikely team. The characters are really well
presented, their emotional core is strong and back stories engaging. In
short, they're interesting and easy to like. All of them have great
moments and keep us wanting for more and more. Rocket, in particular,
steals the show with his anger management problems and bright
one-liners. It was great to see a group of people each with their own
agenda come together, this dynamic worked really well. Star-Lord
carried a lot of this weight, and was very sympathetic.

The film doesn't take itself very seriously, which was refreshing to
see after also great yet darker themes of Thor and Captain America 2's.
Guardians has a lot of laughs, witty dialogue, characters rub off on
each other (and the audience), writing is perfect. The film is so
entertaining, non-stop adventure but also knows when to balance with
more dramatic themes. Scenery and worlds are spectacular, visual
effects top notch. As a reader of the Guardians comics it was great to
see some smaller motifs thrown in that may not be necessarily caught by
regular viewers, but which the comic book readers will definitely be
thankful for too.

All in all, Guardians of the Galaxy was an awesome watch. Amazing
characters, vivid cinematography, great dialogue, lots of humor,
soundtrack was nice, story exciting. This wonderful adventure and its
captivating characters will be in mind for a long time.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a mess of the worst kind: a never-ending cascade of
contrivance after contrivance.

The plot, if it could be called so, is kickstarted by the theft of a
magical plot device that evil people want. This also happens in The
Avengers and Man of Steel, and it's not getting any more creative. The
evil people fight the good guys, there's explosions and snarky humor
everywhere, and it never rises above the level of an excuse plot.
Characters get beaten close to death so the movie can have a sad moment
before they get revived - all the protagonists are invincible. There's
one particularly shameful scene where a character gets cast out into
space and another character risks death to save them. But surprise!
Somehow, a fleet of spaceships somewhere managed to find their exact
location and arrive to save both within a minute! See, friendship saves
the day again!

The dialog is just as useless as the plot: the characters either make
juvenile jokes, exposit once again that they need to bring the magical
plot device somewhere in order to prevent genocide by the evil guy (in
case the audience forgot), have ham-fisted discussions about the value
of friendship and overcoming adversity with all the subtlety of a bull
in a china shop, or explain completely obvious things. The worst of
this is when a character steps out into a visibly darkened corridor and
comments on how dark it is.

I saw this movie because it was compared to one of my favorites: The
Fifth Element. This comparison is worthless because while The Fifth
Element was a movie, The Guardians of the Galaxy is a product. Every
bombastic special effect and every cardboard cutout character reek of a
movie trying to sell itself and its tie-in action figures and comic
books to 12-year old kids. The humor is juvenile, the plot and
characters are shallow and facile, explosions and fighting are
shoehorned in at every turn... there is no natural characterization, no
genuine emotion, and no signs of intelligence. This movie is junk food
cinema at its worst. We deserve better.
<|_=00=_|>
I know, I know. This will incontrovertibly attract a lot of hate from
die-hard Dark Knight fans, but guess what? I'm one of those who thinks
Nolan is the epitome of how to make a perfect superhero spectacle. 

Or at least, I was until tonight. 

This film will blow your mind. Quite literally, it is jam-packed with
edge-of-your-seat action thrills and pure comedic gold. Don't be
expecting a moody companion piece like that of Nolan's trilogy, or Man
of Steel. It keeps more in touch with Avengers, although it's a lot
funnier and really builds upon the upcoming Infinity Gauntlet arc. 

The actors are incredible, matching the character developments, the
dialogue and action sequences are spectacular and the visual effects
should surely earn a nod come Oscar time, as I'd personally put them on
par with those seen in the recent Dawn of the Planet of the Apes. The
run length compliments the well-scripted pacing of the movie itself,
whilst plenty of interesting secondary characters litter Guardians with
an ensemble cast that has exceeded anything yet seen in the Marvel/DC
movie worlds. I don't pertain to the DC versus Marvel argument, but
this masterpiece alone has certainly put Marvel on the front foot in
terms of cinema outings, far surpassing the very enjoyable Man of Steel
and, I believe, edging out Nolan's trilogy and then some. 

I thoroughly recommend this for any with a borderline sci-fi/superhero
love, and advise you to remain for the tantalising post-credits scene,
although many of the non-comic fans might not get the references. 

Easily a perfect ten out of ten for me.
<|_=00=_|>
(Rating: 12A, 121 mins) Written by Zen Terrelonge 

Starring Â– Chris Pratt, Zoe Saldana, Bradley Cooper, Dave Bautista, Vin
Diesel

If you've seen the trailers for Guardians of the Galaxy, you'd be
within your rights to think Marvel Studio execs have been hitting the
bottle hard or taking LSD.

The film revolves around a group of dysfunctional but goodhearted
criminals Â– think Robin Hood's Merry Men of the future Â– comprising
human thief Peter Quill aka Star-Lord (Pratt), green assassin Gamora
(Saldana), talking raccoon Rocket (Cooper), knife-wielding Drax the
Destroyer (Bautista), and walking tree Groot (Diesel).

Like the Avengers, the Guardians get off to a false start but soon
unite over a common cause, namely, the galaxy being obliterated by
genocidal maniac, Ronan Â– not Keating Â– the Accuser.

Ah yes, the old,
let's-exterminate-everyone-for-the-mistakes-of-their-forefathers ploy.

But unlike Avengers Assemble, Guardians of the Galaxy oozes offbeat
originality and frankly, it's the most unique and delightful film
Marvel has created to date.

It's a hell of an achievement given the extensive movie library the
company is building up and when you consider the characters aren't
household names like 'big three' Iron Man, Thor and Captain America,
but Marvel seems well aware of that fact with the final production
risky to say the least.

The film opens in 1988, which is when Quill is abducted from Earth, and
26 years later we see he's become a crooked intergalactic outlaw with a
taste for all things shiny, valuable and not his.

Given the distinct decade in which he was taken, his cassette player
and mixtape of 70s and 80s tracks are laced throughout the film, which
creates a quirky yet grounded quality in the midst of all of the
dazzling interstellar warfare that takes place along the way.

In addition to the soundtrack, jokes and comedy have never been more of
a feature in a Marvel film Â– perhaps Iron Man 3 was the closest Â– as
gags are thrown into the unlikeliest of scenarios to lessen the
tension, and I would imagine, to really differentiate itself from
Avengers Assemble, Star Wars and Star Trek, which by comparison are
left looking very sombre.

That said, if you were going to compare Pratt's Quill to someone, the
character is quite reminiscent of Chris Pine's Captain James Kirk Â–
smart, womanising, reckless leaders, who eventually find their feet.

The editing is supreme and makes each bit of dialogue super-sharp and
tight, so when the infamous five are bickering or talking generally,
the repartee all feels really clean and natural without being awkward
or forced.

Thor can be stubborn, Iron Man can be arrogant and Captain America is
considered too stiff, but all of the Guardians bring even more wildly
different qualities to the table and offer some diversity that doesn't
ever grate or bore, which wouldn't have been possible without such
excellent casting.

Meanwhile, the film is very much in the here and now, with Quill's
backstory the only one that truly gets a look-in, which creates a sense
of intrigue about his colleagues who only have their pasts hinted at,
meaning sequel fodder.

There's just no way of knowing where you're going and tonally the movie
delivers a piece of everything and it's done big and without
hesitation.

Guardians may have been a gamble, but I'm Grooting for it to Rocket to
the top.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Guardians of the Galaxy is just another mediocre film. Under the
pretence of future, it sneaked in embraces of the past. Perhaps it
tried to be both, but it was neither a serious film nor a comedy. It
failed to trigger any deeper emotion inside me. Its humour was out of
context. There were too many characters, most of which were not
properly developed. The purposes of existence of those figures were
very confusing. I'll comment in detail on the triggering of deeper
emotions and the humour in the following 2 paragraphs.

Someone commented that the films like the Dark knights series set a
standard that superhero films must be deep and thoughtful. That person
further commented that this film, Guardians of the Galaxy challenged
this standard. I generally don't like dogmas. But here it's not at all
about dogmas. It is just the fact that those "deep" ones could trigger
deeper emotions, or provoke thoughts, or inspire the audiences, or help
the audiences learn something, or help the audiences learn themselves
better. By these, the audiences like, think about, involuntarily
recall, remember and give high scores for those "deep" films. Of course
different people have different opinions on deepness. So, I don't
comment on the deepness of Guardians of the Galaxy. Just commenting on
triggering deeper emotions, or provoking thoughts, or inspiring me, or
helping me learn something or learn myself better, unfortunately,
Guardians of the Galaxy did none of these to me. So, it just didn't
make me feel that way, that it was one of those all-time great films.

Someone commented that Guardians of the Galaxy was not a serious film,
but rather, it was a great, light-hearted comedy. Even for this, I
don't think I could agree. Great humour exists in context. In the right
context, something plain could be hilarious. Out of context, brilliant
jokes were just nothing. In Guardians of the Galaxy, too much humour
ran out of context. For example, the raccoon said later, that he asked
for one prisoner's prosthetic leg was just a joke. What did this
convey? It was clever to play such heartless jokes on your partners
when it was time to be serious? No. How about it tried to portray a
figure, the raccoon, who was unfazed in front of great danger? But then
you had to make the situation look dangerous. Even in The Wizard of Oz
(1939), the scenes felt more creepy than here in the prison. The prison
here felt just like a noisy second-hand market. So, I didn't find the
joke funny and didn't know why it was in the film otherwise either.
There were many such lines. I knew they were intended to be something
to make people laugh, but I just didn't feel that entertained at those
improper moments.

All in all, Guardians of the Galaxy has no place on the all-time great
list. Perhaps it was the last joke it could play, on itself, being put
into the Top 250 list. Among those great films, its mediocrity would
just manifest itself. Just within the first month of its release, it
dropped 20 places on the Top 250 list from the 34th to the 54th. As
time goes on, this film will likely drop further when the enthusiasm
fades after its initial surge. There are great films, like In the Name
of the Father (1993), A Beautiful Mind (2001) etc. They were not on the
Top 250 list before, but gradually rose up and emerged into the
all-time great list. Just on the contrary, Guardians of the Galaxy will
gradually drop out of the Top 250 list.
<|_=00=_|>
You might expect a movie studio at the top of its game to play it safe
rather than strike out in new, bizarre directions. Certainly, it's hard
to imagine any other studio giving the greenlight to Guardians Of The
Galaxy - a huge blockbuster movie based on a title unfamiliar to anyone
who isn't a comics aficionado, starring a relatively unknown actor
playing a character most people have never heard of. And yet, Marvel
scores once again with its willingness to head off the beaten track.
GUARDIANS is a fun, fizzy delight, even as it mines some surprising
depths of emotion from its ragtag group of anti-heroes.

Peter Quill (Pratt) - a human abducted from Earth as a child - has
grown up into an intergalactic thief who has no idea what he's getting
into when he takes possession of a mysterious Orb. Little does he know
that Ronan (Pace) - a genocidal Kree radical - will do just about
anything to get his hands on said Orb, including sending alien assassin
Gamora (Saldana) after it. Gamora, as it turns out, has an agenda of
her own. Trapped in an intergalactic prison (long story), Peter and
Gamora are forced into an uneasy alliance with three other misfits: a
brainy, sarcastic raccoon-like creature named Rocket (voiced by
Cooper), a giant tree by the name of Groot (Diesel), and the
vengeance-minded Drax The Destroyer (Bautista).

The truth is that there's almost too much going on in GUARDIANS. Not
only do we meet a host of characters we've never met before, on a raft
of new planets teeming with brightly coloured life and detail, we're
also introduced to several plot lines all stuffed somewhat awkwardly
into the film. We have Ronan's planet-destroying aspirations, which are
somehow bound up with the evil plans of Thanos - that creepy purple-
skinned dude who popped up at the end of The Avengers. Peter's
kidnappers turned surrogate 'family' are also on the trail of the Orb,
turning up at moments both enormously convenient and inconvenient to
the plot. It all makes sense in the end, but until it all clicks into
place, it can make for a rushed, unsettling experience.

But, despite its occasionally unwieldy script, GUARDIANS triumphs
because of the gang of scruffy losers (a term that will take on a
different, more heartfelt meaning during the film) at its heart.
Director James Gunn, who co-wrote the script, clearly feels a strong
affinity for each one of these outcasts, all of whom are easily outlaws
in some (if not all) parts of the solar system, each one battling - at
least initially - to save his or her own skin rather than to save the
world. It's fascinating to watch the five members of this unlikely
group slowly banter, bicker and batter their way into becoming a team.

Most joyfully of all, Gunn never loses sight of the prickly, selfish
side of his characters. He gives them plenty of rich, emotional moments
- whether it's Peter and Gamora bonding over the loss of their parents,
or Rocket's ability to read a whole range of meaning into Groot's
extremely limited vocabulary ('I am Groot') - but never allows the film
to descend into dangerously sentimental territory.

In fact, Gunn pumps up proceedings with a healthy, hearty dose of
humour. Films in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) have always been
more tongue-in-cheek than the likes of the considerably more dour Dark
Knight franchise, but GUARDIANS is a heady trip of a different order.
It practically delights in bursts of odd, subversive comedy, and
actually dares to punctuate its most epic face-off with a sly homage
to, of all things, Footloose.

Pratt - so winning in TV's Parks And Recreation - holds the emotional
core of the film together. He exudes an easy, rakish charm that makes
Peter both dashingly arrogant and achingly vulnerable. He's matched
very well by Saldana, who is clearly delighting in the opportunity to
play the world-weary, no-nonsense Gamora - bred into a killer, born a
fighter. The rest of the cast does justice, too, to the film's cheerful
swing from drama to comedy and back again: Bautista brings unexpected
pathos to Drax's occasionally comical determination to avenge his
family against Ronan, while Cooper sounds completely unlike himself -
in a very good way - as a creature who hides a world of hurt beneath
his mouthy exterior. Even Diesel manages to find a great deal of depth
in a CGI character who only communicates via the same languid burst of
three words.

If anything, GUARDIANS is let down by a trio of not particularly
threatening villains. Pace snarls and spits in heavy make-up, but can't
quite rustle up much in the way of nuance or genuine menace. Ronan is a
one-note madman, with so little in the way of backstory that he
automatically becomes less interesting. Thanos, too, now voiced and
performed in motion-capture by Brolin, doesn't get much to do beyond
lounge on his space throne. Only Gillan's cyborg Nebula manages a
smidgen of complexity; even then, she struggles to be half as
fascinating as her conflicted "sister", Gamora.

Before the film was even released in cinemas, Marvel announced that a
sequel would be coming in 2017. It's a no-brainer as to why. The film
is smart, funny and quite wonderful on its own merits. But, even more
crucially, GUARDIANS is a gamble that pays off handsomely for Marvel.
It opens up the MCU in, quite literally, all directions. Don't be
surprised if you see our more earth-bound heroes heading into space
sooner rather than later. The film also adds a new cast of lovable
rogues to the MCU's roster of characters: a gang who, one might say,
are actually all the more heroic for being people who would ordinarily
be running in the opposite direction from any galaxy-guarding duties.
Frankly, we can't wait to see what they get up to next.
