
I will start this by saying: YOU need to watch it! 

2013 was quite the year for horror and 2014 looks promising also. 13
sins is one of the most intriguing movies I've seen in quite a while,
something of a "Identity" that will keep you there, craving for more
even getting your mind twisted a little. It was perfect, from start to
finish, and I can't believe I didn't hear more about it. Sadly, a lot
of good horrors lately remain completely unknown even after they are
release and it is quite the shame, but fanatics will always find a way
of digging them up. 

The cast was good, Mark Webber did an excellent job, Ron Perlman is
always good on screen and Pruitt Taylor Vince always offers a dark
touch to his films. The plot was not the most original, but not one of
those over used subjects either, the execution is the key here. Pretty
much everything was done the way it supposed to and all horror fans
will have a big smile at the end of it. 13 sins is indeed a good
horror!

I will end this by saying: YOU need to watch it!
<|_=00=_|>
was pleasantly surprised by this film, it's not great, and nothing
about it is great, but pretty much all of it is pretty good, the story,
the acting, the twists. 

you'll be talking with whoever you watch this with or know has seen it
what stage you would stop playing the game. Which is tricky because if
you go so far it's difficult to turn back, which is the whole point. 

was a little disappointed with the end, can't help but think 'YOU
IDIOT!!!' 

Well worth a watch if your into similar films, not much to hate about
this in my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
I've always liked psychological thrillers, and though I wasn't
particularly blown away, "13 Sins" is a good pick. 

The cinematography was rather mediocre and especially monotonous in the
beginning, but Mark Webber indeed did a great job - you can see his
posture and facial expressions change drastically throughout the movie,
which I find pretty haunting. The plot is simple yet intriguing and
smart. Somehow, all the twists seem predictable for me, but that
doesn't mean they aren't good ones. There is some decent, mild gore
along the way as well, as expected from Dimension Films. To be honest,
I think it wouldn't hurt to show some more blood; but considering the
fact that this is low-budget, it's not that important.

Though I did have fun sitting through 90 minutes of this movie, I
wouldn't highly recommend this to everyone. Maybe just some who need a
new breeze regarding horror / thriller genre (the exact reason why I
watched "13 Sins" in the first place).
<|_=00=_|>
I think this movie could have done well in theatres if just given even
a moderate push. It's a smart horror movie. I know we are so used to
getting bombarded with ghost story horror movies, like The Conjuring,
Insidious, and Sinister (which are all basically the same movie), that
something like 13 Sins couldn't possibly stand out. Right? It's like a
horror movie version of The Game, or a horror version of Series 7. Not
quite The Running Man. In this version, a man (Webber) is told that he
can potentially win 6 million dollars. Of course, he's down on his
luck, which is why he was chosen. He's also planning a wedding to his
girlfriend (Wesley), and needs to take care of his mentally ill brother
(Graye), and potentially his sick father (Bower). So a lot is at stake.

He has to complete 13 tasks. The first is easy. Kill a fly. But the
stakes are upped with each new task, and soon he finds himself doing
things he never thought possible. What can a man convince himself to do
to provide for his family? 13 Sins is an interesting take on something
that's already been done before. It does enough different to feel
fresh, and not only do you want to know how it ends, you'll be
surprised by how it turns out. There's a great twist at the end, and it
makes the movie so much better.

Webber is a great lead, and underused in Hollywood. Hopefully more
people will see him in this so he can get higher profile roles. It's
also a nice departure for Wesley, who usually has to kick ass as Tara
in True Blood. It's nice to see her play the sweet girlfriend for once.

It's on Netflix, and it's very much worth a watch. Probably one of the
best surprises I've had watching a random film on Netflix that I knew
nothing about.
<|_=00=_|>
I will say it now: if you watch this film, don't quit until the 90
minutes have expired. Otherwise you will miss the devilishly clever
final twists which are well-foreshadowed. In fact it is textbook screen
writing. Fiction writers from all genres should take note - this is how
you do it.

However, it's easy to change channels when watching 13 Sins. The low
budget and (at times) pedestrian acting make it unremarkable to the
eye, and it's tempting to go looking for something better. But stick
with it, as what 13 Sins lacks in scale and scope it makes up for with
suspense and intelligent twists. If you're very good, you might see it
coming. The events of the third act are telegraphed clearly in the
first, although you'll have to be smart to put the pieces together.
This is where the film succeeds. Mysteries should always give the
viewer a chance to solve the puzzle, and while 13 Sins doesn't make it
easy, you can certainly do it. In fact I'm laughing out loud at myself
for not seeing it coming.

That said, 13 Sins is a flawed film. It's tried to blur the lines
between a suspense thriller and horror film. There are some hackneyed
horror moments that could have been handled more effectively. A handful
of gory scenes were obtuse and unnecessary, and perhaps would have been
better if done with more subtlety. This seems to be the fault of the
director who is apparently influenced by the style of independent
horror-film makers of the 90s and 2000s who don't understand the value
of tension. Gore on its own is ineffective. Horror is equal parts what
we see and don't see. Case study: the original Alien showed us
everywhere the creature could be, and in turn revealed them to be
empty, letting our minds wander, letting us experience what the
terrified characters were feeling. When the ultimate moment comes, it's
done logically, and with nuance and flair. There's no gore on screen
that didn't need to be there. All horror writers should study this.

The other problem lies with the film's occasional desire to go beyond
it's limitations and try to establish a grander scale. There's an
"escape" set piece that falls short of competency because they didn't
have the money for good special effects, and it showed. You could have
just left it out. An independent film should work around its budget
instead of stretching it. 

Anyway, out of all the slim pickings of 2014 so far - which is shaping
up to be another terrible year for film - this low-budget suspense
thriller has actually impressed me. Elliot's (the protagonist's)
transformation was mostly plausible, aside from a few nonsense moments.
It's sheer intelligence and gripping, relentless pace kept me watching
until the bitter end. However, while I have said that the final act is
quite good, it is let down by an incompetent epilogue which leaves us
with a Downer Ending instead of one which is left open to the audience
to interpret. 

I recommend it as a rental only, but I DO recommend you see it.
<|_=00=_|>
OK so I admit I was a bit under educated going into this one and found
out in my usual prepping that 13 Sins is actually an American remake of
a Thai Horror/comedy, 13 Beloved that came out in 2006. I was drawn to
it immediately being the huge Ron Perlman fan that I am, I was
pleasantly surprised when I started watching and saw another familiar
face in Rutina Wesley (True Blood) playing the pregnant fianc√©e.' there
is another familiar face from True Blood as well in the unnamed father
in law to Rutina, Tom Bower, who played in several episodes of the
series. the film is full of notable character actors, all leading you
to expect a great film.

Elliot (Mark Webber) is expecting a promotion to go along with his
upcoming nuptials pregnant bride to be Shelby (Rutina). It looks like
life is going to be roses for the couple, but looks are often deceiving
and upon closer inspection we find the couple is in dire financial
straights. The couple is struggling with a wedding pending, baby on the
way and Elliots special needs brother, and it looks as though Elliot
needs to rescue his destitute father as well. 

Upon arriving at work he finds instead of a promotion, his problems are
compiled with a pink slip. How can things get worse you ask? Just as it
seems all hope is gone for poor Elliot, he gets a mysterious call
offering a solution, 13 tasks each more strange and difficult than the
last but for every task completed his bank account will grow, but once
you start this game there is no turning back! How far would you be
willing to go to make ends meet and find your financial freedom? 

So to start with there's nothing all that new about this one, but it
does offer up some nice little twists as you go. The characters are
each interesting in their own right. The cast is fantastic, but not
particularly challenged by the story, so although they do well they
don't necessarily shine the way I had hoped for.The film has its
moments of dark humor, some good action sequences, and interesting
kills. The tasks put in front of Elliot will definitely lead to a
discussion and some internal battles of conscious for the viewer. 

All in all this film is a fun watch, a bit predictable but it it will
also more than likely throw you a few curve balls. Its not a film that
is going to change cinema history, but its worth a watch for sure. I
will eventually add this one to the collection, as I could watch it
again, and I do love some of the cast, but its not as fresh as I had
hoped for, yet somehow its still interesting enough to be enjoyable and
keep you watching.

HeatherOmen TheHorrorNation.net
<|_=00=_|>
I truly liked this movie. This movie was of the puppeteer type as I
like to call them. A person or person(s) are committing atrocities yet
someone else is pulling the strings.

13 Sins is about a man, Elliott Brindle (Mark Webber), who is down on
his luck when he's offered an opportunity to win loads of money to help
alleviate his woes. There are 13 tasks to complete and the rules are
such that once he starts he pretty much has to continue to completion.
Of course the game is anything but harmless.

I was impressed with the plot and the build up. Before having some
random person launch into a morbid game we first got to see the type of
person Brindle was and the type of issues he had to deal with. Pregnant
fianc√©, disabled brother, elderly father, and recently terminated from
his job. This information wasn't thrust in there as an aside, we were
given it organically within the flow of the movie.

It's also a movie that makes you think: "How far would I go for a
sizable sum of money?" The puppeteer type movies always find human
weaknesses to prey upon and they are usually either greed or survival.
Where movies like "Saw", "Die", "Vile", "Circle" and others are about
pure survival at its core, "13 Sins" is about social survival. Elliott
could've easily opted not to play but what quality of life would he
have given his situation? 

There were some small flaws with the movie but overall it was a good
product. They took a known premise and freshened it. It helped that the
actors were good and you didn't totally know what was the end game.
Yes, I truly liked this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
"13 Sins" has a lot in common with another recent low-budget,
independent film, "Cheap Thrills." In both, a down-on-his-luck young
man, driven by extreme desperation, agrees to perform a series of
unsavory/immoral/illegal acts in exchange for ever larger quantities of
money.

The protagonist of "13 Sins," a psychological thriller written by David
Birke and Daniel Stamm and directed by Stamm, is Elliot Brindle (Mark
Webber), a harried and harassed insurance agent who has a number of
people depending on him for their livelihood and support. These include
his pregnant fianc√© ("True Blood's" Rutina Wesley), his mentally-
challenged younger brother (Devon Graye) and a cantankerous racist dad
(Tm Power) who's been evicted from his home and now has to move in with
Elliot and his black girlfriend. Then Elliot is summarily fired from
his job, leaving him utterly bereft and desperate, until, that is, he
receives a call from a mysterious stranger who offers to make Elliot a
fortune if he successfully performs 13 tasks as part of a surreal "game
show," the hitch being that he can't let anyone in on what he's doing
or he'll lose all his winnings.

At first the tasks seem simple enough, but as they escalate in
intensity, it quickly becomes apparent that the object of the game is
to "show that anyone can be turned into a monster." And Elliot is only
too willing to prove that point.

The mood is grim and the humor pitch-black in this Kafkaesque tale of
an ordinary man caught in an incomprehensible nightmare from which he
cannot awaken, a nightmare filled with shadowy figures and disembodied
voices that hold him in their implacable grip - though, if truth be
told, the lure of easy wealth can be awfully hard to resist, even when
the price is as potentially dear as it is here. The movie is creepy and
disturbing in its unflinching look at the morally depraved depths to
which desperate people will sink in an effort to ameliorate their
situation. It forces us to look at a lot of unsettling aspects of human
nature - aspects we might not be all that willing to face - but that's
what makes it an effective little horror film in the long run.
<|_=00=_|>
In New Orleans, the salesman Elliot Brindle (Mark Webber) is full of
debts and expecting a promotion to get married with his girlfriend
Shelby (Rutina Wesley) that is pregnant. However his unethical chief
fires him and Elliot is desperate since he supports his intellectually
disabled brother Michael Brindle (Devon Graye) with his health
insurance. He reaches the rock bottom when his estranged racist father
(Tom Bower) tells that he is going to live with him. Out of the blue,
Elliot receives a phone call and a stranger invites him to participate
in a game where he may win a large amount and become a millionaire
provided he accomplishes thirteen tasks. Initially the skeptical Elliot
needs to kill a fly and then eat it. After each task, Elliot finds the
promised deposit in his bank account. He decides to accept the
invitation, and the tasks become aggressive, gruesome, brutal and
offensive. When Elliot decides to quit the game, he realizes that there
is no return for him.

"13 Sins" is a film that uses the storyline fairly inspired in the 1997
"The Game". The film holds the attention of the viewer and entertains,
but the omnipresence of the instructor of the game is impossible to
believe. In addition, how could the system drop all the accusations
against Elliot if he played havoc with the precinct, inclusive shooting
the foot of the police captain among others atrocities? My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "13 Pecados" ("13 Sins")
<|_=00=_|>
'The Box, 2009', meets 'Saw, 2004', meets 'Eagle Eye, 2008'. Combine
the plot, premise and mood of those three movies and you'll know
precisely what to expect from this taut, energetic thriller/mystery. It
most resembles "The Box" but focuses more on action than psychological
thrills. It most certainly doesn't qualify as a horror. 

It was a pleasure to see Rutina Wesley (HBO's True Blood) on the big
screen, and Ron Perlman is always a delight. All of the performances
delivered were good, some more-so than others. A comprehensible script
along with some talented directing made it all come together nicely. 

If you're looking for a film to keep you glued to the edge of your
seat, this one misses the mark, just barely. If you're looking for a
film that will have your mind reeling, it also just misses the mark. As
an effective genre hybrid it walks the line and makes for a palatable,
enjoyable, viewing experience for a wider audience set. It's plain
movie fun that doesn't cater to idiotic 'tweens. 

How far would you go to become a multi-millionaire? Can the promise of
fortune turn the meek-mannered into a violent sociopath? Who is being
entertained by this insidious game and how?
