
As a constant film goer I was really impressed with this film. It was
entertaining. The story worked well. The acting was great. And the
effects were really impressive. I watched it on a big screen in Bangkok
and enjoyed the experience. The sound was equally impressive. 

I just can't understand why the really negative reviews abound. Some
are cursing it for having foreign actors. Others about the political
situation etc. And the poor director is even getting a caning. 

The story is about a legend. And it was wonderful to just sit back and
let someone tell a story. I nearly didn't go because of all the bad
reviews but I am glad I went and made up my own mind.

Go and see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw it in Romania in a good 3d cinema. The movie tells a legend.
And it tells it so beautifully! The cinematography is breathtaking and
for all the duration I was more than a movie spectator, I felt part of
that legend, a character from that story, present among the troops
defending the wall. If a movie succeeds in delivering such an
experience, the rest is not important anymore. 

In this point, I don t care anymore about plot holes or historical
inaccuracies, because I came to cinema to see a fantasy, a Chinese
legend with monsters and heroes. And there I was, in a war story, set
in a different world, filled with amazing elements of the old Chinese
culture, surrounded by exceptional warriors, beautiful landscapes and
bloodthirsty monsters. I am very saddened to see the negativity among
critics and public surrounding this movie. Complaining about historical
inaccuracies or being racist about the mix of races is so misplaced. I
hope people will go see it and ignore the bad criticism and prejudices
about it.
<|_=00=_|>
The famous Great Wall was built to keep out the evil hordes: people
with a lot of problems, drug dealers, murderers rapists, and (I assume)
some good people. Wait a minute, wrong wall. 

Regardless, The Great Wall embraces a new direction currently seen in
filmmaking. Many movies, like Transformers 4, have featured Chinese
locations prominently with the hope of getting into Chinese theaters.
The rules to get into Chinese theaters are long and complex and the
rules as to how much money an American studio can make from those
theaters is even more complex. So, US-Chinese co- productions like The
Great Wall could become the rule rather than the exception.

Consequently, the story behind how a movie like The Great Wall gets
produced, is way more interesting than the movie itself. The Great Wall
is movie where things happen not out of natural plot development or
character motivations, things happen because the script says they
happen.

The best example of this lack of plot development is the revelation
that the creatures made it to the other side of the wall. How they
accomplish this daunting feat is neither explained nor shown to the
audience. Suddenly, a guard tells Matt Damon that it's happened and
that's that. Perhaps the creatures paid a toll?

Speaking of which, the creatures and main villain of this movie are
simply put ugly green poorly rendered computer dogs. Not creepy ugly
like the Predator or Alien. Just ugly ugly. Additionally, they express
no motivation or intelligence for their machinations beyond the need to
get food for their queen. That's the limit of their complexity, this
from the main antagonists throughout the movie.

I guess I could go into Willem Dafoe's role in the movie, but then I'd
quickly be doing more work on his character than the script did.
Further, Matt Damon's character has a friend (played by Pedro Pascal)
that travels with him throughout the story whose contribution is nearly
non-existent.

In fact, one could streamline this script and tell the same story with
just Matt Damon's character and a selection of random guards. One could
argue that all the extra story lines and characters are red herrings.
However, that would imply that these elements at one time seem
important. They never do. The movie is nothing more than generic
throwaway monsters versus shallow throwaway heroes.

Sadly enough, some good ideas are here. For instance, to signal how
they'll attack the creatures the soldier use drumbeats to unify their
action quickly. This is not only a nifty military technique, but, more
importantly, provides a good driving bass to the action and,
unfortunately, is criminally underused here. The use of color on the
Chinese soldiers is frequently beautiful. However, the way they attack
the amassing hordes from the wall swiftly ranges from very cool to very
stupid.

Presumably, they could create a decent video game from this movie,
which brings us full circle to the techniques movie makers embrace to
make money.

I watched trailers for this movie and although I didn't expect great
art, I did think it could be dumb fun. Well, I was half right.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't stand these unfair and unreliable reviews.

So, this is my first review for a Chinese film. I would say I felt the
same feeling of excitement when I watched Lord of the rings (LOTR). I
even like The Great Wall more than the hobbit.

We've watch hundreds of movies with bad reviews and we knew that as
long a film has at least one 10/10 fair review, don't hesitate to watch
a movie. Ignore the noise of negative people. Let them get sick with
their views.

This is great movie that combines history and fiction. Enjoy it! Just
like what the actors said.. "TRUST"!!!
<|_=00=_|>
If you don't have any expectations, this film might surprise you a bit.
I really liked the special effects, even if I started laughing when I
first saw the antagonists. 

Most scenes between battles were quite awkward, full of clichés. Yet,
once the battle begins, any cliché this film might have is really fun
to watch and not at all annoying. 

What I hated the most was the unfortunate English accent... used during
the Song dynasty (960-1279). 

Overall, the plot is quite linear and simple and is centered around one
important moment. Character development was welcoming, but not
impressive and definitely not unexpected. The best part was not
fulfilling the love sub-plot, even though I half expected this and I
would have been really disappointed if it had happened. 

Anyway, it was an enjoyable film with better 3D effects than I expected
and many other films, so give it a try. But be open minded and admire
what is to be admired.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll be honest, I thought that this movie will be very bad. Came out in
the month where movies expected to be blessed with negative reviews, it
was no surprise that I thought it would be one of those ill-fated
movies.

In the end, I've underestimated it.

"The Great Wall" follows William (Matt Damon), a mercenary who tries to
obtain the "Black Powder", a deadly explosive, only to get caught in a
battle against monsters that awakens every 60 years. For those who
doubt that it will be good, mark my words: Don't underestimate this
movie. The movie was a surprise all the way to finish. The acting was
great, The visuals were amazing, the cinematography was breathtaking,
and the action were incredible. Matt Damon as always gives a fine
performance as the hero (Heck, even his Mandarin, although only a word,
is very good). Andy Lau were also great as Strategist Wang in his first
Hollywod movie. The biggest surprise was the female lead played by Jing
Tian, she's really good and surprisingly, pretty fluent in English.
William Dafoe (I not expect him to be in this movie) is also very
great. Lu Han (Yes EXO-L's! It's EXO's Luhan!) is a scene stealer.
Although he has a small role, He's very good at acting and truly one of
my favorite characters in the movie. My criticism was it's plot. It's
basic idea is like Independence Day with Chinese culture mix. Although
it actually worked very well, but *SPOILER ALERT!!!* Kill the queen or
we all die?", come on writers, you can do better than this. Another one
is the length. A 100 minute movie isn't enough for a story with this
kind of scale. If only the studio made it like 2 hours, it would be
better for more character development and understanding the story.

Additionally, I don't understand all the negative reviews, especially
from Chinese audiences. I'm a Chinese-Indonesian, and I absolutely love
this movie. I saw criticism about the main lead being American. I'm
telling you, there are 5 main leads in the movie, and *SPOILER
ALERT!!!* 3 of them are Chinese, Plus most of the focus IMO are
directed to the Chinese main characters. Another one is that the movie
isn't based on the legend of The Great Wall. This is a fantasy movie,
so of course it's not! The film even mentioned it in the beginning!!!
To me, these negative reviews are purely hate for this movie. I think
that most of them haven't seen the movie and simply hate it for no
reason. 

Overall it was a surprisingly good movie, and arguably one of the
greater movies in January. If you want to see a fantasy movie, this is
a perfect movie for you
<|_=00=_|>
This is a mediocre popcorn movie with a Matt Damon seriously trying to
keep a straight face while "acting".

Some extra terrestrial lizards are causing trouble in medieval China
and Matty comes to the rescue!

The graphics are subpar even for a video game and the action scenes are
lacking the usual fluidity and finesse that other Chinese epic films
have as standard.

The customs are interesting and colourful. Maybe Matt Damon veto the
use of these armors taking inspiration from one of his other movies
where he was kissing Michael Douglas who played Liberace.

Overall is definitely not a grand epic as you might think initially,
considering this is a movie from the director of Hero. It's just a
popcorn movie like Jurassic World but with less impressive graphics.
<|_=00=_|>
Millions of people watching the 2017 Oscars would have seen Jimmy
Kimmel roasting poor Matt Damon as a part of their long running 'feud'.
At one point he points out that Matt gave up the leading role in
"Manchester by the Sea" to star in a "Chinese ponytail movie" that
"went on to lose $80 million at the box office". "The Great Wall" is
that movie! 

So is it really that bad?

Well, it's no "Manchester by the Sea" for sure. But I don't think it's
quite the total turkey that critics have been labelling it as either. I
went to see it on a Sunday afternoon, and approaching it as a matinée
bit of frothy action is a good mental state to be in.

Matt Damon plays the ponytailed-wonder William, a European mercenary
travelling in 11th Century China with his colleague Tovar (Pedro
Pascal) in an attempt to determine the secrets of black powder  a
secret well-guarded by the Chinese. Captured by the 'New Order' at the
Great Wall and imprisoned there by General Shao (Hanyu Zhang), William
earns the respect of Shao and his beautiful warrior second- in- command
Lin Mae (Tian Jing) with his bowmanship. This is almost immediately put
to use by the arrival (after 60 year's absence  a funny thing, timing,
isn't it?) of hoards of vicious creatures called Taoties. (I thought
they said Tauntauns initially, so was expecting some sort of
Chinese/Star Wars crossover! But no.)

Taoties who scale the wall are defeated by William who poleaxes them.
(This is an attempt at brilliant humour to anyone who has already seen
the film  poleaxe. get it? POLEaxe. Oh, never mind!) Despite being a
mercenary at heart, William is torn between staying and helping Lin Mae
fight the beasts and fleeing with Tovar, their new chum Ballard (Willem
Dafoe) and their black powder loot. (I'm sure something about Lin Mae's
tight-fitting blue armour was influential in his decision). 

This is an historic film in that although in recent years there has
been cross-fertilization of Chinese actors into Western films for
box-office reasons (for example, in the appalling "Independence Day:
Resurgence" and the much better Damon vehicle "The Martian") this was
the first truly co-produced Chinese/Hollywood feature filmed entirely
in China. It might also be the last given the film's $150 million
budget and the dismal box-office! 

To start with some positives, you can rely on a Chinese-set film (the
film location was Qingdao) to allow the use of an army of extras and 
although a whole bunch of CGI was also no doubt used  some of the
battles scenes are impressive. There is a stirring choral theme by
Ramin Djawadi (best known for his TV themes for "Game of Thrones" and
the brilliant "Westworld") played over silk-screen painted end titles
that just make for a beautiful combination. And Tian Jing as the
heroine Lin Mae is not only stunningly good-looking but also injects
some much needed acting talent into the cast, where most of those
involved (including Damon himself) look like they would rather be
somewhere else. 

And some of the action scenes are rather fun in a 'park your brain by
the door' sort of way, including (nonsensically) cute warrior girls
high-diving off the wall on bungey ropes to near certain death. While
the CGI monsters are of the (yawn) over-the-top LoTR variety, their
ability to swarm like locusts at the Queen's command is also quite
entertainingly rendered.

Where the movie balloon comes crashing down to earth in flames though
is with the story and the screenplay  all done by three different
people each, which is NEVER a good sign.

The story (by Max Brooks ("World War Z"), Edward Zwick and Marshall
Herskovitz (both on "The Last Samurai") is plain nonsensical at times.
No spoilers here, but the transition from "wall under siege" to "wall
not under siege" gives the word 'clunky' a bad name. As another
absurdity, the "New Order" seem amazed how William was able to slay one
of the creatures (thanks to the poleaxing 'McGuffin' previously
referenced) but then throughout the rest of the film he slays creatures
left right and centre (McGuffin-less) through just the use of a spear
or an arrow! Bonkers.

Things get worse when you add words to the actions. The screenplay by
Carlo Bernard and Doug Miro (both "Prince of Persia: The Sands of
Time") and Tony Gilroy (Tony Gilroy? Surely not he of all the "Bourne"
films and "Rogue One" fame? The very same!) has a reading age of about
an 8 year old. It feels like it has been translated into Chinese and
then back again to English with Google Translate. "Is that the best you
can do?" asks Tovar to William at one point. I was thinking exactly the
same thing.

The combination of the cinematography and the special effects have the
unfortunate effect of giving the film the veneer of a video game, but
this is one where your kid-brother has stolen the controls and refuses
to give them back to you.

Having had the great thrill of visiting a section of The Great Wall
near Beijing, I can confirm that it is an astonishing engineering
masterpiece that has to be seen to be truly believed. It ranks as one
of the genuine wonders of the world. The same can not be said of this
movie. Early teens might enjoy it as a mindless action flick. But
otherwise best avoided until it emerges on a raining Sunday afternoon
on the TV.

(For the graphical version of this review, and to comment, please visit
bob-the-movie-man.com).
<|_=00=_|>
I don't remember the last time I felt a movie was too short. This movie
kept me entertained all the way. The chemistry between Matt and Pedro
is great. The Chinese actors were good, they weren't supposed to speak
perfect English. Their facial expressions were good and the directing
is better than a lot of similar popcorn movies.The sound design rumbled
the theater and in a fog fight scene, I felt like I was there with Matt
and Pedro in the mist. SJWs complain about race, like they always do.
They attack anything from China as the guardian always do, nothing new.
They ask for "character development" because they want to sound
smart.Since when did popcorn movies have a deep plot? You don't judge a
pop song with classical standards. If you do, it means you don't know
what you are talking about and you are trying to pass of as a pro. And
why look at rotten tomatoes when the movie is not even out in the west?
That proves they just want to troll. Good critics would never asks for
historical accuracy in a popcorn fantasy. What they want is "Shindler's
list" in Star wars costumes because they forget their age and Spielberg
would never be so confused. This movie was made for a wide audience.Not
just a specific group. Comic relief tells you to not take it so
seriously. It was meant for pure visual and audio spectacle. As Zhang's
Beijing Olympics opening. And Zhang did a great job with a script he
didn't write. He and Ang Lee are two rare directors that can transition
comfortably between east and west. All in all, I was entertained for
almost two hours without boredom. In my theater no one got up to leave.
They stayed for the ending soundtrack and credits. Everyone seems like
they could use another half an hour of film. I have never seen this
before.
<|_=00=_|>
Wasn't expecting to enjoy this film but I was rapt soon in, fabulous
acting and brilliant images, what a feast for the eyes and an adventure
that dragged you along, (so not my normally my kind of thing) but
amazing and recommended to everyone, the visuals are amazing, very
stunning film
