
This movie has gotten a lot of bad reviews and i have no idea why. The
twist were at the right place and everyone says the acting was bad.
Forrest Whitaker always KILLS everything he does and Anthony Mackie was
PERFECT. People say Mike Epps is just a comedian but he was really good
in this role. This movie actually had me confused and shocked at some
point but i don't regret watching this at all. I really wish i would've
went to the movie theatre to see this. I recommend this movie to
anybody who loves movies that make you think and that don't just hand
their ending out to you on a silver platter. My advice watch this on a
rainy day, turn the lights off and pay attention. Hope this helps.
<|_=00=_|>
Sadly this film may not be embraced by the masses, as bad as they need
to see those types of films, but one can hope. One ought to be sharp
and capable of following intelligent plot to really enjoy this film.
It's not the 6th sense, where everything is pretty much spelled out for
you yet still maintains it's integrity by being genius. This is more
for the figure it out, use your brain kind of audience.

The cast bring it in terms of acting, my congratulations to the people
who thought this would be great for an all black cast. The direction,
the casting, was brilliant. Mind, consciousness, terror, a strong sense
of reality, moving at real life pace, all the ingredients for a great
psychological thriller are there. Very atypical for an all black cast,
remember, I said atypical, please look it up and don't get confused. I
personally think they should have maintained the original title VIPAKA.
I played the Seer so I won't comment on my brilliant work :), I read
the guidelines and it doesn't say I can't review a film I'm in, since
many actors don't like films they're in, this one, is definitely worth
a shot especially if you like the actors in it, (I personally can never
take my eyes off of Forest Whitaker) and that genre, you will be happy
you saw it.
<|_=00=_|>
This has been a tough week movie-wise for me. While I have seen some
excellent films, I must say that a few of them were so violent and so
disturbing that it makes me want to take a break and seen something
pleasant. After all, generally films should be enjoyable and the last
two I've seen were incredibly well made but extremely upsetting to
watch. And, "Repentance" DEFINITELY makes me want to take a break from
violent films.

"Repentance" begins with a couple drunken men driving home from a
binge. The driver is a mess and hits some pedestrian and then you see
the car smash. Suddenly, the movie jumps forward four years. The driver
of the car, Tommy Carter (Anthony Mackie), is a respected author who
writes new age self-help books. He's at a book signing and Angel
(Forest Whitaker) tells him that he loves his booksso much that he'd
love to have some one on one counseling. However, Tommy
declines--saying he's too busy and doesn't take on clients any more.
Soon Tommy's ne'er do well brother arrives from prison and demands that
Tommy give him a lot of money because he 'owes him'. You assume it
probably has something to do with the opening scene, as the brother was
the passenger in the car of the night of the accident. So, reluctantly,
Tommy decides to take Angel on as a client to get money for the
brother.

The work Tommy does with Angel is like a combination of being a life
coach and a lot of new age mysticism and ceremonies. The problem is
that this sort of work might work fine for reasonably well adjusted
folks, but it's very obvious that Angel is emotionally disturbedVERY
emotionally disturbed. Freaking crazy emotionally disturbed! Angel
hallucinates and clearly should be seen by a team of psychiatristsnot
some self-taught counselor. However, Tommy decides to treat the man.
Further, he feels that Angel's problems can be solved by him stop
taking his medication, working through some grieving ceremonies and
thinking positive thoughts! Soon, Angel descends further and further
into madness. Now it's obvious to Tommy that he's way in over his
headhis brand of feel-good counseling is no match for 100% nuts! At
first, he unwisely ignores Angel's requests for more sessions and later
he goes to Angel's house to tell him that he needs to get help that he
cannot give himprofessional help. And then.things get violent and
really, really crazy! Tommy is attacked and awakens in a basementbound
and at the mercy of a man who is out of his mind. Believe it or not,
this is only about a third of the way into the film. What follows is
terrifying and Tommy is tormented by this madman. But there's morefar
more. Exactly what's next you'll need to see for yourself. 

While I thought Repentance was a very good filmespecially because of
its acting and clever twistsI also thought it was very hard for the
average person to watch. After all, much of the film involves torture.
There is a lot of blood and the film is definitely NOT for the
squeamish. It also has a lot of loose ends that are deliberately left
that way at the end of the film. I didn't mind that at all, as I like
films where the viewers can debate exactly what will happen next. My
wife, though, HATES films with such endings and I doubt if I ever could
get her to watch a film like this.

So is it appropriate for you? Well, if you could sit through "Misery",
you might be able to handle this one okay, but it's a bit gorier and
more difficult to watch. It certainly is NOT a film for kids, your
mother or anyone else who is looking for a feel good film! But, in its
defense, the film IS well done, has some clever writing and delivers a
very powerful punch. Just don't say I didn't warn you.
<|_=00=_|>
. . . to a shovel fight, and movies teach us that few people use
conventional weapons (such as revolvers) in Louisiana. Pipes, power
tools, and cloth sacks full of broken shards of glass are among the
tools of the torture trade for the vengeful Angel of REPENTANCE, ably
played by Forest Whitaker. Going off his lithium to better juggle his
responsibilities as a single dad, carpenter, and serial kidnapper,
Angel proves the adage, "If you want to feed old ladies to the gators
in the bayou, first make sure they don't have relatives." Angel proves
to be "crazy like a fox," inducing one of the killers to off himself
while he still has enough pieces left to do the trick. The guiltier
brother is last shown facing a fate too grisly for the cameras to dwell
upon: days of cannibalizing his true love, followed by weeks of
starving to death in Angel's basement bomb shelter. The lesson
REPENTANCE teaches us is that the "self-help" industry is a crock. No
one needs a "life coach." Everyone can find salvation inside their own
heads (and if you want to have a REAL "near-death episode," just try
throwing a random old lady off a bridge in Louisiana's "Voodoo Alley").
<|_=00=_|>
Review: I had high expectations from this film because it had some
decent actors in it, but the storyline is sketchy and the pace of the
film made it quite boring. If you use your head, the film is
predictable from beginning to end although it's supposed to be a
suspense thriller. It also seemed a bit over acted and the director
chose to jump right at the deep end which didn't give the characters
that much depth. The concept, which is about a man who has
psychological issues after the death of his mum and he decides to get
help from a psychologist, doesn't seem to go anywhere for the first
half of the movie and then it gets extremely dark out of the blue. The
ending was also very sketchy so you end up feeling a bit cheated after
spending so much time waiting for the story to unfold. Personally, I
thought that the movie seemed a bit cheap and not very well thought
through. Disappointed!

Round-Up: Forest Whitaker is not an actor that has chose the easiest
path in his career. I would have thought that he has earned the right
to pick and choose what roles to take, so it might just be down to bad
choices why he has starred in so many dodgy movies lately. From big
movies like the Butler and The Last King Of Scotland to the dodgy Pawn,
Crossfire and the Truth, he has really had a rollacoaster of a career.
Maybe he's just addicted to work like Samuel L. Jackson and Robert De
Niro. Anthony Mackies career has picked up lately with roles in the new
Captain America, Pain and Gain and the new Avengers movie, so I doubt
that this film will harm his portfolio. In all, this film must have
looked good on paper but it just wasn't put together well by the
director. 

Budget: $5million Worldwide Gross: $1million

I recommend this movie to people who are into their
suspense/drama/thrillers about a man whose suffering with psychological
problems after the death of his mother and seeks for help from a
successful book writer. 3/10
<|_=00=_|>
Trigger Warning(s): Torture Scenes

When it comes to some actors, there is just a go to style which seems
to fit them well. For Will Smith, it is the likable and approachable
Black guy; Denzel Washington, as of late, recycles his Training Day
persona; and then there is Forest Whitaker who usually plays off
putting characters. This one is no different but, with a character
which reminded me of Kathy Bates in Misery, the question is whether his
portrayal as Angel was good, or just another awkward character of his
to write off?

Characters & Story

A man with mental issues named Angel (Forest Whitaker) has lost his
mom; his wife, to a point; and now all he has is his house and
daughter. So needless to say, he is troubled. But there is one man he
believes can help him: that man is Tommy Carter (Anthony Mackie) whose
self-help book dealing with his brush with death seems to have had a
profound effect on Angel. But as Angel reveals his demons, Tommy finds
himself facing off with them and his own which involve wife Maggie
(Sanaa Lathan), as well as Ben (Mike Epps). Leaving us with a film
which makes it seem that Tommy may have taken on Angel's problems a bit
too lightly.

Praise

As always, Whitaker playing an unnerving character just fits. It pretty
much has been his signature, to me anyway, since Jason's Lyric in the
90s. And in this movie he is not only off putting, but a bit
frightening as well. Arguably, Whitaker could probably play, with the
right script, an iconic fictional villain again and perhaps set a
precedent people would be trying to match for years. Though, it should
be noted, the rest of the cast surely isn't slacking. Mackie hold his
own against Whitaker and does attempt to compete for intensity. But you
can see Whitaker's veteran status definitely gives him the upper hand.

Criticism

When it comes to the story though, it does require you to be a tad bit
open- minded. For one, Whitaker as Angel is so off putting that it is
hard to understand why Tommy would allow himself to be alone with this
man. Then, when you add in Lathan and Epps' characters, you see a
side-story there which isn't fully cohesive with the main story. For
one, it doesn't act well as a break between Angel's mad moments, nor
does it really draw you into either Lathan or Epps' characters fully.
And two, as much as I understand they are there to beef up Tommy,
neither character is written, or maybe portrayed, to the point you
really care about them. Lathan's character, to me, barely evolves past
being a shallow love interest. Then with Epps, who honestly I am just
not fond of as an actor, not only are you given this brash and utterly
unappealing character, but the attempt at giving him a proper
back-story to draw sympathy out of you just feels utterly weak.

Overall: TV Viewing

Though I am not highly fond of either Lathan or Epps' characters, their
place in the film hardly takes away from Whitaker and Mackie's story.
If anything, Epps and Lathan are like a pickle which comes with your
burger which wasn't asked for. But overall I am labelling this as "TV
Viewing" since even though I like Whitaker and Mackie in this movie,
honestly neither pushes the story to a place where it makes this "Worth
Seeing." It is decent to spend some time with, especially if you are a
fan of anyone involved, but this surely isn't the highlight of any of
their careers. Just another film and another paycheck.
<|_=00=_|>
Solid although not usually exceptional acting from the cast carries
this movie well enough, while the performance by Forest Whitaker is
quite strong (but I tend to expect that from him). He carries off the
role he is given well, and elicits a fair bit of understanding from the
viewer even though the role he plays is a hard one to make people
sympathize with. The story is solid, and the ending is decent even
though it is less realistic and more moralistic in motive. I don't rate
it highly, but I do give it a true medium rating and would recommend it
to anyone who just wants a movie to watch that will not leave them
cold.
<|_=00=_|>
And by this I'm not only talking about the budget (which seems to be a
big concern for another reviewer), but also about the story of the
movie. Sometimes there is more to a story than the first glimpse
reveals. It may feel like the movie tries to cheat its way into the
viewers mind a little bit, but the actors make up for it.

This is still a tough watch, because the title is chosen for a reason.
There is not always reason to things happening in the movie and it
seems a bit like a muddle from time to time, but it's still able to
hold up a certain degree of suspense, if you let it to. The actors try
their best to divert from some holes in the script (or finished movie,
if scenes got deleted for pacing reasons) and the movie will be
explicit in depicting violence to a degree.
<|_=00=_|>
"Seems like you were in need so I figured I'd reach out to you." Tommy
Carter (Mackie) is an author and spiritual adviser who wrote a book
about his near death experience and tries to help others deal with what
they have gone through. When his brother gets into trouble Tommy thinks
the best way to help is is to do one more one-on-one session. He offers
to help Angel (Whitaker), a husband and father who lost his mother but
still sees her. When Tommy tells him he can't help him anymore Angel
doesn't like that answer. This is a movie that I had no idea what to
expect out of it. I thought it was gonna be a little creepy but when it
started becoming a little like Misery I got into it. The acting is
great from these two and the movie stays pretty tense the entire time
but it was also a little draggy in some parts and I found it hard to
totally stay focused on. This is a movie that is worth seeing if you
can but don't expect anything super amazing. Overall, a movie with
shades of Misery that dragged just enough to make it hard to stay
completely involved in. I give it a B-.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was so awful I actually made an IMDb account at 3 in the
morning just so I could vote this movie farther into the gutter. If I
can just prevent one helpless soul from spending precious moments of
their life seeing this movie out it's worth writing this review. 

Please God do not try to watch it all the way through, you will feel
only rage.

Seriously, I am legitimately angry at the producers of this movie for
allowing it to be released. I've been robbed, beaten, and berated, but
this movie is the worst crime ever committed against me. 

I don't think I've ever hated anything this much in my life.
