
Jamie Fox and Michelle Monaghan, what were they doing in this? Both are
way too good to be in a movie this bad. Hollywood continuing to churn
out junk like this and showing their disrespect for the viewing
audience by thinking people are going to continue to pay and swallow
this stuff. Well maybe some are but my standards are a lot higher than
this. Jamie gets stabbed in the beginning of the movie and then walks
around through the rest of the movie like he can barely stand up and
walk, but yet has all these fight scenes after that where he is beating
up everybody with no hint of an injury. Then after each fight is over,
he appears again all injured like he is going to pass out, that is
until the next fight scene comes up. Jeez. I guess Hollywood is saying,
"don't stab thus dude, cause it makes him fight better. Then the bad
guy is shooting a machine gun in the parking garage with a gas mask on
shooting tear gas all over the place yet nobody walking through it is
coughing a bit. Heh heh. I guess Hollywood thinks everybody are idiots
and are not going to notice. This movie was not a good one.
<|_=00=_|>
Jamie Foxx is always good value, especially when he's wounded. Although
the only difference between his wounded and non-wounded state is that
he stops every now and again, groans, feels his wound then takes off
again as if nothing had happened.

I will refrain from making any jokes about the title - I'm sure there
are plenty in the reviews here already - just to say that it bears no
relevance to the movie at all.

Anyway, back to the movie. The direction, etc is just fine with a few
set pieces, but the story is derivative, predictable and by the
numbers. You'll even guess who the 'baddie' is long before the end.

As cop/action flicks go, it's not bad, but the point is, do you really
want to spend your life watching so-so movies. There was absolutely no
point in making this movie or telling this story, Jamie Foxx fans
notwithstanding.

So if you're happy with low-bar movies, go watch it, but maybe you want
to raise your expectations and, hope beyond hope, perhaps filmmaker
will raise their game. But don't hold your breath.
<|_=00=_|>
6 Apr 2017 in an small room with even smaller number of people I start
watching this movie that I "vouched" for my girlfriend because I quote
" Jamie Foxx plays in good movies." Half-way through the movie I
already asked her more than 3 times if she want's to go home and watch
Star Wars ep-2 (we started watching it because she never saw it). Few
people already left the cinema and we only stayed because we payed. 

Every main or supporting actor is angry for no good reason. The
soundtrack is angry. Most scenes are predictable and all intentions are
extremely easy to reveal. 

I thing is for sure. Jamie Foxx can also play in bad movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the coming attractions, I wasn't expecting much, and I got
even less. This is another good cop/bad cop, is he or isn't he, kind of
flick, set in Las Vegas with lots of glitz and glamour to hide what is
a very shaky plot. If the glitz and glamour aren't enough to dazzle
you, the music tracks will deafen you, and your visual delights will be
satisfied with death by knife, death by pistol, death by automatic
weapon, death by shotgun, death by truck, death by wine bottle - just
to name a few.

The acting is pretty good, all things considered, but the direction is
appalling and the action-every-minute film has low spots.

Generally I like films about internal affairs. "Internal Affairs"
(1990), "The Departed" (2006) and "Q&A" (1990) are my favorites.
<|_=00=_|>
This is I what I call "a comedy of errors" Ridiculous, hilarious effort
from Hollywood on a remake of "Nuit Blanche" (Sleepless Night), (2011).
The original was truthful to its name. but this? if it hasn't been so
loud I would have caught a nap.

What can I say? predictable, terrible directing acting, editing, and so
on and so forth.

Repetitive but definitely not boring, because it is more of comedy than
an action thriller,... what? anyone here was acting, my bad I thought
they were joking!

"Saddest part"Jamie Foxx will never catch up with Denzel Washington!
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying that I like gritty neo-noir thrillers, Jamie
Foxx and dramas that are set in a compressed time frame. The trailer to
"Sleepless" promised all of this and I was sold. I didn't expect
anything outstanding, but something a little bit like Mann's "Miami
Vice" or "Collateral". 

The digital cinematography by the talented Mihai Malaimare Jr. ("The
Master", "A Walk Among The Tombstones", "Tetro") is better than this
kind of movie deserves and creates a moody, but still realistic Las
Vegas setting using grey, black, blue, green and purple color tones. No
color is there only by coincidence. The frame is always beautifully
composed. Some of the action footage looks spectacular. 

So, why doesn't it work?

The screenplay by the Oscar-nominated Andrea Berloff is very
conventional and full of cliché, but so are other good B-pictures with
a less stellar cast. It's surprisingly flat and without any originality
at all. You've seen every twist before in better movies. But it's not
as bad, that it needs a Razzie nomination. It might have worked if
directed by some talented guy, but...

The direction is a mess. It's not only weak directing, but incompetent
directing, because Baran bo Odar makes mistakes you usually only see in
student films, where the filmmakers don't really care about realism too
much. Some of the actions of the characters don't make any sense and
are staged in an unbelievable manner. My favorite example is the moment
when one of the bad guys aims with his gun at Jamie Foxx. He could
easily kill him now, but what does he do? He walks a few steps back.
Then suddenly Foxx' son in the movie drives into him with his car,
without making any noise first, so the bad guy is surprised by his
death. Another big thing that bothered me was the son: Why didn't he
leave the building after his unrealistic-escape-by-coincidence ? No, he
prefers to stay in the disco. Really? These things would not happen in
real-life, only in movies, where the director is not able to block and
stage a scene in a believable manner. Or he simply doesn't care for
realism or logical actions by motivated characters. The whole showdown
is ridiculous and unintentionally funny because of the bad direction
and the mediocre writing. Maybe good editing could have fixed some
errors and save the movie from its ridiculousness, but even then it
would still be only an uninspired B-picture.

What we have here is proof of disregard for the audience and
intelligent storytelling. Maybe Baran bo Odar once showed some promise
at the beginning of his career, but based on "Sleepless" I would never
hire this guy for anything except maybe a car commercial.

I only give it 4/10 because of stylish cinematography. A waste of
talent.
<|_=00=_|>
Ecclesiastes 1:9 came up with the oft used quote that "there is nothing
new under the sun". "Sleepless" proves that in spades.

- Bent copper drama? Check. 

- Dodgy casino owner? Check. 

- Nasty "Black Rain" style hoodlum? Check. 

- Kidnapped teen ("I WILL find you")? Check. 

- Misunderstood family man? Check.

All of these standard tropes are lobbed into the movie blender and
pulsed well.

Holding it all together are solid performances from Jamie Foxx ("Django
Unchained") as Vincent Downs, the cop with a dodgy background, and
Michelle Monaghan ("Source Code", "Patriot's Day") as the internal
affairs cop doggedly on his trail.

In terms of the storyline it's best to go into the film (as I did) with
limited knowledge of the plot (on which more below). As the film opens,
and playing out a strong anti-hero role, Downs with his equally dodgy
partner are involved in a shootout at a drug deal in the streets of Las
Vegas. This allows them to get their hands on a significant quantity of
heroine. Naturally they pocket this, but unbeknownst to them the deal
was between casino boss Rubino (Dermot Mulrooney, "The Grey") and the
vicious mafia son of the local Novak family, Rob (Scoot McNairy,
"Argo"). For Downs the pressure is on when his teenage son Thomas (
Octavius J. Johnson) is kidnapped as a trade for the drugs.

The film delivers some good fight scenes and action, but nothing we
haven't seen before in countless other movies like Bourne. What drags
the film down though through is the scripting and direction. There are
such a range of implausibilities on show here that it makes you wonder
why anyone involved in the film didn't just stop and say "WAIT A MINUTE
HERE GUYS" and demand a rewrite.

For example, Foxx suffers a severe knife wound early in the film, but
repeatedly bounces from 'full action hero fighting machine' mode to
'staggering and holding his side' mode without pause. The wound adds
nothing but implausibility to the action, so why include it at all?? 

And a scene in an underground car park involving copious quantities of
tear gas brought tears of embarrassment to my eyes: an affliction that
didn't seem to affect any of the protagonists in the film! 

This is a great shame, and writer Andrea Berloff ("Straight Outta
Compton") and Swiss-born director Baran bo Odar should have more
respect for their audience's intelligence (that's the third movie in
recent weeks I've made that comment on... it must be the time of
year!). 

It's also extremely irritating that one of the key twists in the movie
(although you may guess it) is so blatantly spoiled: both by an audio
line in the trailer (at 1:40) and  more appallingly  by one of the
two straplines for the film on the posters. Thankfully I never noticed
this before I saw the film.

Fox and Monaghan are too good for the material but have screen
chemistry that keeps the film watchable. I also thought Scoot McNairy
was great as the cold-eyed crazy hoodlum and it's also interesting to
see Dermot Mulrooney, so memorable as the male lead in 1997's "My Best
Friend's Wedding", back in a mainstream role.

By the way, I have no idea why the film is called "Sleepless", other
than it being based on a 2011 French film called "Nuit Blanche" which
was perhaps written in a way where it made more sense. Vincent is no
Jack Bauer and he gets more than a small opportunity to catnap during
the running time!

In summary, the movie is perfectly watchable for its action moments. In
fact, as I *think* my wife, who is a great fan of "Die Hard, "Taken",
et al would like it I've added a star to my initial rating. And it's
done with some style such that it has the *potential* to be a good film
  which is frustrating. But in my view it's not worth the ticket
price at the cinema: wait instead for it to arrive on Amazon/Netflix.

The end of the film suggests a set-up for a sequel. I doubt this is a
sequel that will ever get made.

(For the graphical version of this review, please visit bob-the-movie-
man.com. Thanks).
<|_=00=_|>
Jamie Foxx can't really save this movie though he's probably the bright
spot here no doubt. Foxx gets to play a heavy cop fairly straight to
which he's up to that. He's better though when his penchant for humor
is front and center. It's the overall same old drug/cop story and way
too over-the-top constant cat and mouse action that brings things down.
Not much meat and lots of filler.

This is a confusing ride about a corrupt bunch of law folks and their
involvement in the drug business out of Las Vegas. We think Foxx's
character, Vincent, is dirty for much of the film. I guess that adds
some cloak and dagger extra baggage that's supposed to be clever? While
I did find Foxx's character interesting I felt as if he wasn't ever
equipped to be a one-man hall of justice. Going it alone, for the most
part, he had to survive too many sure-fire deadly encounters with his
own, and his hostage son's, life. Everything just kept getting worse to
which believable realism was jettisoned.. The makers must have thought
if they could bring the action bigger that credibility wouldn't matter?
They forgot it was trying to be a real crime thriller early on.

in the end there was too much silly action and not enough possible
truth. This may prove Foxx can also be an action star, but this movie
is entirely disposable and will be forgotten as fast as one leaves the
theater. Foxx can't change that even as he survives to be declared a
"good cop". I recommend a pass as there are too many much better crime
flicks that respect the viewer's time with something approaching
reality. This is a silly fail.
<|_=00=_|>
As far as police corruption flicks go this one tends to line the bottom
of the barrel as far as content is concerned. Although it was a fast
moving film the characters held inside a casino for the entire length
of the movie became monotonous. Since the inception of how policemen
take the wrong turn during their career it often shows the rare cop who
plunges face first into the mess trying to figure out just who is the
bad guy, and who is not. Jamie Foxx plays Vincent Down. An internal
affairs undercover policemen charged with finding corruption at its
core. Starting with the robbery of Novac's drug supply, which was
supposed to be delivered to another source as some kind of kickback or
future plans to keeping his business rolling.

Amidst this subtle chaos is another internal affairs officer played by
Jennifer Bryant who is convinced that Downs is one of the corrupt, and
must take him into custody or die trying. But not everything goes as
planned when Downs's son is kidnapped by Rubino (Dermot Mulroney) in
order for the drugs to be delivered to Novak on time. With plot twists,
and strange occurrences popping up all over the casino it was a wonder
nobody went insane in the first five minutes. The story became too
complicated to follow at one point where you are hoping someone or one
of the stars were killed just to put him or her out of their misery in
order for the tale to end.

Shooting an entire film within a structure often tends to miss-guide
audiences for the simple reason that using tension other than car
chases or city wide marathons to catch the bad guys leaves a bad taste
in your mouth. Examples of such films are 123 Pelham or Die hard series
or Raid on Entebbe. The idea is sound but often too boring to make it
worthwhile unless a lot of psychological aspects are melded in with
just the right amount of edgy violence to make it more appealing, much
like Dog Day Afternoon with Al Pacino. Still with Sleepless it did have
enough violence, which could have led to the rest of the city but it
didn't. It was almost as if an invisible force had the only key to
freedom, and everyone else was a hostage without them knowing it.

It didn't work in that sense. It could have been more broad if Downs,
and his son escaped the casino leading the others to follow their trail
along with the internal affairs officers or even throw in Dena who is
Downs' wife who could be concerned about her ex-husband, and son rather
than leaping into unknown territory without a plan. The music was
excellent as a tension builder, the action was good too. But the plot,
and ingredients needed more pizazz keeping it city wide than in just
one building alone. One of Jamie's finer roles because his acting is
done extremely well to show his love, and compassion for those around
him as he tries to protect his family. Will Smith could have also done
this role too. I wouldn't be surprised if he was already approached to
do it.

I would say it is a good filler until some of the more high end block
busters begin to fill the silver screens in the summer. Beyond that
Sleepless to me is a decent watch. Hopefully there might be another
instalment leading us off with the DEA as another entity who are
corrupt that we noticed at the end of the feature. Maybe then a city
wide escapade would work a hell of a lot better than just inside a
casino. Recommended to those who like corruption stories.
<|_=00=_|>
Crime Thrillers seem to be the rage this weekend, as this is my third
movie with the genre tag to review. My latest review is on Sleepless
starring Jamie Foxx. From the trailers, this film looks like a mash up
of Triple 9 with Taken, and perhaps with a lower budget. Can the man of
many talents make this movie, or is it just another knock off meant to
take our money. Robbie K here and as always please read on for my input
on the latest films to hit the silver screen. 

LIKES:  Complicated Crime Story  Michelle Monaghan's dynamic
character  Humorous

Summary: For those worrying about this being another mindless action
flick, you have nothing to worry about. Sleepless is more convoluted
relationships and chasing rabbit holes than anything else. Much of the
story centers on trying to uncover the truth behind a massive drug
dispensing ring and who the true leader is. There is not much more I
can say past this simplistic plot, but this predictable theme remains
constant throughout the entire tale. In fact, the only good thing past
this simplicity is Michelle Monaghan's character, a very passionate
(and obsessive) cop caught between a lot of rocks and hard places. Her
fiery determination, single minded sense of justice, and act first ask
later attitude adds the needed excitement to this otherwise bland tale.
And the movie is surprisingly humorous, though how much is on purpose
vs. accidental remains to be seen. Much of the movie has very "silly"
moments that had me laughing by how cheesy and out of place it was
(e.g. random people showing up, surprisingly bright dealers forgetting
to check things, and a seemingly endless supply of ammunition). These
ridiculous notions made a targeted serious movie, end up an indirect
comedy for this reviewer. 

DISLIKES  Gets stale quickly  Dropped concepts that don't work 
Action nothing like Taken  Lacked a uniform direction

Summary: As I mentioned earlier, Sleepless main theme is walking around
a casino trying to find the goods. This endless game of hide and go
seek the drug got old fast, as a giant bag full of cocaine continued to
disappear despite all the high technology and hired help. Watching Foxx
and the rest of the cast go in endless circles lost its entertainment
value quickly, and lacked very little suspense. In addition, much of
the concepts they highlighted in the trailers did not last long in this
movie, which was very disappointing to say the least. The whole kidnap
the kid and try to find him was over in five minutes, and the rest of
the drama was very lackluster compared to the other films I saw this
weekend. An even bigger disappointment was the lack of real action in
this movie, a big selling point promoted in the trailers. Surprise,
surprise, the action is diluted down to a few staged fist fights and a
little shoot out that won't be high on the most thrilling fights list.
For this reviewer, all these shortcomings came from what seemed a lack
of direction in what type of movie they wanted. Instead of an epic
action movie with a crime theme, we got a circular tale where nothing
was really accomplished until the final ten minutes. This my friends is
the biggest shortcoming of the film, and the missed potential it held. 

The VERDICT: 

Sleepless certainly doesn't live up to its name, as I found myself
fighting sleep from the boredom I had watching this tale. Outside a
convoluted crime ring, and some humorous antics, this movie did not
deliver the thrills it set its sights on. If you're looking for a gory,
adventure where we walk around a fancy casino, then check this movie
out, but this reviewer encourages you to save the time (and money) by
skipping this movie. I can maybe suggest if for Netflix, but even that
is a bit of a stretch for this movie for me. 

My scores are: 

Action/Crime/Thriller: 4.0 Movie Overall: 4.0
