
I'm a huge fan of the original Wolf Creek. Mick Taylor cemented himself
as one of the best horror villains of all time. Yeah I said it. He
doesn't wear a mask, he's not invincible, he doesn't have any
superpowers; he doesn't need any of that. No, this guy is a hunter. A
straight up Australian outback sharpshooter with weapons up the wazoo.
Thing is, he hunts tourists. Any poor bastard wandering around the wide
open plains of Australia better not cross paths with the guy because
he'll kill them in the slowest, most degrading way possible. He thrives
on fear and wants to squeeze as much life out of each one of his
victims before letting them die. His smirk is chilling, his laugh is
sinister. He's a sick sadistic psychopath, and he's absolutely
captivating to watch. 

The thing about Wolf Creek is that it focused on these three
backpackers who were going to the Wolf Creek Crater or whatever but
their car broke down, so some guy in a truck comes by and offers them a
lift. Turns out this guy is Mick Taylor, and after a brilliantly tense
campfire scene where they're all having a drink and a good laugh, he
poisons them and proceeds to do vile things. What made it so terrifying
is that we knew these characters. They had chemistry, you believed they
were friends, you were on this adventure with them, so when the sh*t
starts happening, it gets downright disturbing because you feel for
these people.

In Wolf Creek 2, the focus is almost entirely on Mick Taylor. It's
literally just a day in the life of Mick Taylor, which I don't have a
problem with at all. But there really isn't a clear protagonist we can
root for during a large portion of this movie. At first you think it's
a German couple since we follow them around for the first act, until
they set up a fire that catches Mick's attention. Then, the guy gets
killed. And the girl runs and runs until she reaches the road, and this
is where we're introduced to our "real" protagonist: Paul. He almost
runs her over but quickly stops, lets the girl in his car and hauls ass
out of there. But of course Mick catches up, things happen, and it ends
up becoming a cat-and-mouse game between Mick and Paul.

Paul really is a good protagonist though. He's a British tourist who
was just driving through the Australian wilderness until he finds the
girl in the street, then things start heading south for the guy. Paul
is a sympathetic character because he was genuinely just in the wrong
place at the wrong time. Even Mick reminds him that he wasn't his
primary target, but Paul interfered with his hunting so now he's in the
crosshairs. The psychological warfare between Paul and Mick near the
end was riveting, and the actor who played Paul did a phenomenal job
despite having such little character development to work with. 

It's definitely a fun ride. There are some cheesy moments like Mick
riding a horse with the sun going down behind him, but overall it has
the same thick, brooding atmosphere as the original Wolf Creek. It's
just told from a different perspective. It's the same type of extreme
over-the-top sadistic horror as the original so if you don't like that
stuff then steer clear. But if you did like the first one and want to
see more of Mick Taylor, Wolf Creek 2 will give you exactly that.
<|_=00=_|>
The purpose of sequels is trying to capture the magic of the first film
and the characters that we fell in love with, to tell a new chapter in
their story. I saw the first one in 2005 and loved it. It's been eight
and a half years since we last saw Mick Taylor grace his presence on
the big screen. Some say it may be too late, I say it's about right.
The film takes different turns from the beginning in that we see that
Mick's up to his old tricks, which shows that a leopard never changes
it spots. His character is expanded more as there is more screen time
in the first half of the film of Mick hunting his prey. The second half
is packed with more gore and a few twists here and here. The death
scenes are bloodier than the first. The future DVD may have an unrated
version (much like the old slasher films of the 80's and 90's that have
"footage not seen in Australian cinemas". I feel the character of Mick
has been developed more in this film (the first showed him to be
friendly to begin with, then his true colours shined through). This one
made him a little soft to begin in the opening scene, but then once the
film gets going, it's on. He is depicted much heavily as having deep
hatred to back packers in Australia than the first film. I wasn't a fan
of the short time of the back packers on screen - I felt little
sympathy towards them as I didn't have enough time to connect with
them. Greg McLean has made some great films (Rogue was a very
under-rated one). His ability to capture the Australian scenery is
breath-taking. The over view of Wolf Creek is unique, the long shots of
the deserted highways and camera angles capture the look of the film
(alone, deserted, stranded, helpless and downright scared come to
mind). Ryan Corr does a good job of an English tourist held at Mick's
mercy. A couple of car chase scenes add some pace to the film. The
first Wold Creek set the bar for Aussie slasher films, this one lifts
the bar. A third one in 3D would raise the bar that much higher. If you
saw the first one and loved it, see this one. It's a film you either
love it or hate it. Wolf Creek film fans will have a ball. Maybe we
have a cult film on our hands.
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed Wolf Creek. All elements of film making seemed to
work, for me. I like realism in films and the sense of isolation in the
Australian outback was palpable. After viewing the trailer for Wolf
Creek 2 I thought that the film might fall into the Hollywood category.
What I was hoping for was another gem.

John Jarratt returns as serial killer Mick Taylor. He delivers another
strong performance. His laugh and hoarse, Aussie voice never falter. He
gets totally into character and runs the show. He has too much screen
time, however, to make him as scary as he should be. The viewer is
given too much knowledge of his whereabouts, I felt.

The actors who play the tourists are good, notably Ryan Corr, playing
well-educated British traveler, Paul. The film doesn't provide much
insight into his character which might be the reason why I had little
empathy for him, or any of Mick's victims in this film. Towards the end
I was routing for the tourists solely because as the viewer we have
witnessed the hell their put through. For whatever reason, I really
liked the characters in the first film and it was hard to watch them
meet their fate.

The sense of isolation is there but doesn't have the same effect as it
did in the first film, probably because there are a few more characters
in this film, and other devices used to create action, which made the
film appear less chilling and more thrilling.

I liked that McLean used subtitles for the German couple because I
wasn't expecting it. Of course English isn't always going to be a
tourists first language and they're not going to speak it for our
benefit. Fret not, once the screaming begins you don't have to do a lot
of reading.

Some parts of the film felt a little odd to me at first, and there are
a couple of comical sequences. I took it in the movie's stride. Perhaps
that was writer number 2, Aaron Sterns, input. I didn't mind. There was
enough Mick Taylor sadism to pull me back to the horror film I went in
to watch. The setting at the end was a little disappointing because it
felt too orchestrated and unlike Mick Taylor. It felt more like a scene
from 'Hostel'. 

The first film is a rare beauty, and Wolf Creek 2 is a good sequel -
nothing more, nothing less IMO.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the first film during schoolies and it felt like it went for
twenty minutes. I don't recall any of it apart from that wicked snicker
Mick puts on. Going into the second movie was like going in blind. We
all know what Wolf Creek is about but i didn't know what to expect,
remembering the premise of the first one, no way could they be the same
and they weren't. I was pleasantly surprised as i was hooked from the
very start. John Jarret is truly superb in this role, he is menacing
and pulls of crazy perfectly. Ryan Corr was another good choice, good
actor and also very good looking, which always helps. It was definitely
a film of cat and mouse, the cat being Mick Taylor. 

The final thirty minutes was definitely a step away from the first film
completely. It provides the viewer a more in depth look into the menace
and serial killer antics of Mick and a chronicle of his 'hobby'. The
ending was also brilliant, simple yet punches you right in the face.
Their were parts during the film that were a bit comedic. I found this
not to be a bad addition, to lighten up the heavy themes of the film,
however it did throw off the pace and unsettling tone. Also the music
choices were questionable. I found myself looking over to my friend a
few times during these parts laughing awkwardly out of place and saying
'that was a bit weird' or 'interesting song choice, bit lame'. 

My main criticism of the movie would probably be the hyper inflated
racist Australian character of Mick Taylor. However in saying that, i
guess that is why he is so crazy and so easy to hate. I'm glad i saw
it, i was thoroughly entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
Doesn't match the quality of the first film, but overall still a highly
enjoyable film.

I thoroughly enjoyed this sequel. Kept me on the edge of my seat right
throughout the film. Having seen Ryan Corr in other things it was easy
to have sympathy for him. I felt like I was apart of all the action.
Some scenes were obviously added for the international market (flying
kangaroo's) but that didn't phase me. Some aspects of the film were
barely believable, but you have to remember this is a film, whatever
happened to poetic license? 

If you want to cringe, scream and get your adrenaline pumping this is a
film for you!
<|_=00=_|>
Mick Taylor's back, and he's bought another 'based on a true story with
him'. Well it says based, probably the truth is that a lot of people go
missing, and are never seen again, and on the odd occasion someone gets
questioned about it so the makers can do pretty much what they want
with the rest of the story.

Taylor this time is more Hands on with the film, appearing right from
the beginning, which is a mix of The Hitcher (the eighties version),
and of course, Hostel.

It's more of the same. We start with a very gory prologue involving
some cops who get their just desserts, and then Taylor stalks two
German travellers, one whom gets away, and bumps into a British
tourist, who foolishly gives them a lift (one thing I've learned from
this is to never, ever stop for someone who appears extremely
distressed, because chances are, they are being chased by a serial
killer)' and inadvertently becomes Micks next prey.

Then from there on in, its a cat and mouse movie, chase after chase,
with everyone coming into contact with the Brit or Taylor, being killed
in weird and wonderful ways.

The realism of the first movie is gone, that was all about the sense of
dread in an unknown place, this is going for the Boogyman route,
emulating Freddy, Jason et al on several occasion.

Replacing seriousness are flying Kangaroos (almost), The Mick Taylor
singalong, and a very extended quiz show for sub finale.

Sounds crass I know, but its a lot of fun, kill keeping on the right
side of horror, and turning it into parody. Ignore the fact that it's
'based on a true story' (apparently one of the characters is in a
mental health hospital somewhere in the UK), and enjoy it for the
throwback shlockfest that it is.

Miles better than Neighbours....
<|_=00=_|>
'Wolf Creek 2' suffers some of the similar problems seen in other
horror movie franchises. Like in the later 'Nightmare on Elm Street'
films, too much focus is placed on the antagonist, causing the film to
lose quite a bit of suspense and tension. In the first 'Wolf Creek',
released nearly a decade ago, John Jarratt's Mick Taylor was an enigma
to the audience. He didn't make an appearance until nearly halfway
through the film, and even then we had no idea what his deal was until
he started torturing and murdering the main characters. In the sequel,
Mick has been turned into much more of a comedic antihero, with there
being a large emphasis on Mick and his pun-laden one-liners, which
kills off a bit of the mystery and edginess that defined the first
film. 

Likewise, this leads to Mick's victims being that little less relatable
and sympathetic, as we are much more familiar with Mick than we are
with them. 

Like the original, 'Wolf Creek 2' is obviously not for the faint of
heart, with the gore and sadistic violence being ramped up. The film's
car chases and fright scenes are all the more elaborate and effective
due to an obvious budget increase. This much more polished look
obviously removes a bit of the grindhouse aesthetic present in the
preceding film, however makes up for it in terms of sheer scale. 

On the whole, 'Wolf Creek 2' is still quite an intense thrill-ride, and
one worth checking out, especially if you enjoyed the first.
Unfortunately, the creative team's decision to spend more time with
Mick and less with the unfortunate tourists who encounter him deprives
the film of what could have made it a superior sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was not amazing but it certainly wasn't bad. It's pretty
entertaining with some action, chases, and gore. 

The only thing I have against this film was that the main character
does really illogical things the majority of the time, which makes it a
frustrating watch. I found myself getting upset over some things that
seemed really common sense that the character would not catch on (and I
usually don't get upset over these types of things). Because of his
mistakes and lack of cleverness, the movie lasted as long as it did, or
it would have ended within an hour into the movie. 

Overall, it is a fairly decent thriller - especially if you're into
some violence and gore.

The first Wolf Creek was better in my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
Not a bad horror movie but there didn't seem to be a point to it. The
whole thing was just a cat chasing mouse situation and there was no
actual climax. I spent the entire movie waiting for it to start. There
were a few scary gross moments but the tension and suspense were
missing. It is nothing like the original.

I was also disappointed with John Jarrett. He just wasn't as creepy. He
was your run of the mill psychopath...nothing special this time around.
It was still entertaining but you could certainly give it a miss.

WARNING: This movie has way too much animal cruelty. It was lucky that
the special effects were super fake but it still made me want to be
sick.
<|_=00=_|>
It's fair to say that most people believe (quite rightly) that sequels
are normally pretty inferior to the original and, in horror terms, it's
hard to ever find a sequel that even comes close to its predecessor.
I'm not going to say that Wolf Creek 2 surpasses the original, but at
least it's watchable (which puts it head and shoulders over 99% of
other horror sequels).

It's about mass murdering psychopath Mick Taylor (once again played
brilliantly by John Jarrett) who lives deep in the Australian Outback
and has a tendency to slaughter any hapless backpacker who passes
through his town of Wolf Creek. And, when I say the film is ABOUT Mick
Taylor, I really mean it. The film doesn't ever really focus on his
victims. He is definitely the star. Granted, he deserves it  he truly
plays the 'nutter' well. However, this does leave us not that bothered
about whether his victims live or die, as we never really get to know
them half as well as we do him.

Therefore, we're left learning more about the 'monster' than the
'heroes.' So, if you're not looking for a film where you're going to
feel that sympathetic towards the victims, then you'll find what you're
looking for right here.

It's not so 'condensed' as the first Wolf Creek. The original was
mainly set in one location (when the murdering finally got going),
whereas much of this movie is a cat and mouse style chase across the
desert.

Don't expect much in the way of a story (well, about as much as the
next slasher film), but if you're looking to see a really good/creepy
performance from a mass-murdering villain then you'll find it here. My
only real gripe was the ending, but you'll have to watch the last
thirty seconds to see if you agree with me.
