
I would honestly give this film a 9 out of ten. It was directed
beautifully, and I feel the screenplay is great. The dialogue is more
than believable, and both Matt Damon and John Kransinski both do a
wonderful job in conveying their character's qualities and aspirations.
There seldom seemed to be a slow moment(if at all).

As far as how close to reality this movie comes.... I live in
northeastern Pennsylvania, only 5 minutes away from Harford, and only
25 minutes away from Dimock(where the documentary Gasland was based). I
have seen the effects of hydrofracking, both the negative and what
little positive comes of it(but those facts and feelings are for
another discussion). As sad as it may seem, natural gas and well
drilling companies(to go un-named ONLY in this review) bought their way
into the community with false hope, money, and lies, but not
necessarily as it happened in the film. In reality.... it was even
worse. Barbecues, parties, etc. were even thrown in order to gain fans
and friends... The community's spirit and resilience was conveyed
correctly, though in reality, it gained support too late.

All in all, even if political/social/ecological issues regarding
hydrofracking aren't your forte, this film is a quality film that is
captivating and deserves to have personal opinions set aside and
enjoyed for its quality.
<|_=00=_|>
When the movie ended, credits rolled but no one moved or said a word.
That doesn't often happen in a fairly crowded movie theater. Processing
was required. Promised Land is a movie that makes people think and
thinking does not mix well with fracking. 

Promised Land was much better than I expected. We knew there was a plot
twist coming but we were unprepared for the creepinesspicture George
Clooney on a hill petting some horses when his car blows up creepy, and
that's not creepy enough. As I sat there watching the credits roll, I
thought, "Yeah, they would totally do that." 

Big money and huge effort has been invested to discredit this movie
just like they did with the documentary Gasland. They rolled out a new
website called The Real Promised Land and a new Facebook page by the
same name. 

Now I understand why the huge investment in discrediting Promised Land.
Movies that make people think are dangerous. 

This movie is not about the environmental devastation caused by
fracking. It's about the predatory practices used by industry to gain
access to our backyards and how communities loose their way in gasland
and are torn apart.
<|_=00=_|>
Promised Land, the new movie from director Gus Van Sant, takes a long
hard look at people's decisions to sell land use rights away to energy
companies for gas drilling. Small landowners and large farm owners each
face a crisis when the gas man comes to town. The Pennsylvania
landowners are not the only people to go through a crisis of conscience
in the movie. The energy company employees also struggle with sorting
out the truth and the lies behind their work. As one employee says,
"it's just a job". Increasingly as the real news comes out day after
day about chemical contamination after hydraulic fracturing  fracking
 one person's job morphs into another person's tragedy.

I grew up in the foothills of the Catskill Mountains in New York, a
rural area that is now at a the center of a raging debate over fracking
land rights for the Marcellus Shale gas. Fracking was put on hold here
in New York, due to concerns over health impact of chemicals used and
chemical waste produced. The story in the movie, Promised Land, as
written by star actors Matt Damon and John Krasinski, captures parts of
country life from my childhood with true colors. Closeness to the
earth, respectful of honesty in conversation, I remember this well. The
dialog throughout is natural and believable.The movie is beautifully
filmed to share the peace of nature.
<|_=00=_|>
'PROMISED LAND': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

Gus Van Sant and Matt Damon reunite, after 1997's 'GOOD WILL HUNTING'
and 2002's 'GERRY'. All three collaborations were starring and
co-written by Damon while Van Sant directed. Damon was going to make
this film his directorial debut but stepped down due to scheduling
conflicts and asked his buddy Van Sant to direct it instead. I don't
know what kind of a job Damon would have done but Van Sant is one of
the best directors around and does a breathtaking job here once again.
Damon co-wrote 'GOOD WILL HUNTING' with his longtime pal Ben Affleck
and the two co-starred in the film together; he did the same kind of
teamwork with Ben's brother Casey on 'GERRY'. This time around he
co-wrote and co-produced the film with actor John Krasinski (of TV's
'THE OFFICE' fame) and Krasinski also co-stars in the film as well. The
movie is a heartfelt drama with a strong environmental message about
fracking that has some ultra-conservatives upset. No matter your view
on the subject the movie is great filmmaking and a must see.

Damon plays Steve Butler, a salesman who's quickly advancing at the
company he works for, Global Crosspower Solutions, which specializes in
fracking (a controversial drilling method used to obtain natural gas
deep beneath the ground). He and his partner, Sue Thomason (Frances
McDormand), travel to a Pennsylvania farming town, hit hard by the
economy, in order to try and purchase drilling rights from the
landowners for their company. The town is very proud of having long
survived on passing farm land off from generation to generation. Steve
came from a town very similar but life there collapsed when the town's
Caterpillar assembly plant closed. Initially Steve and Sue do very well
but then a local high school science teacher (Hal Holbrook), who's also
a world famous geologist, gets the whole town spooked when he brings up
stories of how fracking has severely damaged other towns like theirs
who have done business with the same company. The town agrees to put
the matter up for a vote in a few weeks time. To make matters worse,
for Steve and Sue, an environmental advocate (Krasinski) shows up in
town pushing a campaign against Global Crosspower Solutions. Steve
fights hard for his company but at the same time begins to strongly
question what he's doing, as he also falls for a local teacher he meets
at a bar (the beautiful Rosemarie DeWitt). 

Fracking was previously brought to filmgoers attention in 2010 with the
Oscar nominated documentary 'GASLAND'. That film was informative and
very educational but it didn't pack the emotional wallop that this film
does. In my opinion this fictional tale is a more effective way of
getting it's message across (and it is an important message). Right
wing nuts will argue that there's no evidence that fracking is harmful
and it's all a liberal conspiracy but you'd have to be a complete idiot
to buy that (the facts are undeniable). If you want to argue that the
money to these struggling farmers is more important than the damage it
does to the land than that's a much more valid argument but people that
try to deny logic in this way (just because they don't like it) are
more harmful to the world than fracking is. Damon is outstanding in the
film, Krasinski is good and I'm becoming a bigger and bigger fan of the
stunning DeWitt with every film I see her in. Damon and Krasinski's
script is also impressive and it actually takes one of the best twists
I've ever seen in a film. Van Sant's directing is really what makes the
movie beautiful though, that plus a great score by Danny Elfman (and a
perfectly fitting soundtrack) are really what make the movie a moving
film experience that you really won't want to miss.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ne8a_WCFo3A
<|_=00=_|>
"I'm not selling them natural gas. I'm selling them the only way they
have to get back." Steve Butler (Damon) is a salesman working for
Global, a natural gas company. Him and his partner travel to a small
farming community to buy up property rights in order to drill. When an
objection by a local teacher causes an enviormentalist activist to show
up things get harder for Steve. This is a movie where the trailer
doesn't do it justice. I wanted to see it based off the cast but it
looked a little boring. While the movie is a little slow moving it is
in no way boring. The writing and acting is very good and the "bad guy"
that Damon plays really makes you feel for him and kind of root for him
instead of the "good guy". While the movie does get a little political
towards the end this is not a typical "enviromental/save the Earth"
type movie. This movie makes you able to feel both sides of the
argument and almost forces you to pick a side. I expected this to be
boring with good acting going in. I got sucked in pretty fast and ended
up really liking this much more then I thought I would. Overall, much
better then expected and I highly recommend this. I give it an A.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's a good little movie. Interesting story, extremely well written,
directed and acted. Helicopter shots add to the beautiful location
cinematography. Great use of music, some original.

Matt Damon is excellent. Francis Mc Durmand is restrained and under
used.

It's a small film dealing with a big issue. Perhaps half way through
you might predict the ending but there's a "didn't see that one coming"
twist.

It may not get wide distribution so seek it out. If you don't see it in
a theater it will play well on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this film. Acting is superb (obviously, look at the
cast), beautifully shot, engaging confident storytelling. Very will
scripted by Krasinski and Damon.

People seem a bit split on this movie, I think that partly has to do
with a 'hot button' subject, but I don't think the film overly
politicized the issue, in fact it did a good job of not making it to
preachy, and showed that it is a very complicated issue.

Also the movie isn't an action film, it's a drama, that is nonetheless
thoroughly engaging. Highly recommend. would give it 10/10 but third
act issues lowered the score for me just a bit. Still a great watch!
<|_=00=_|>
Its easy to see Promised Land just as the trailers promise.Namely as a
film about the environmental hazards of drilling for natural gas using
a process called fracking ( hydraulic fracturing), that is not as
harmless as its made out to be, and placing this neatly in a decaying
small town in the agricultural heartland of America. Promised Land
works at that level too, but more importantly it is the study of its
protagonist Steve Butler, played by Matt Damon.Matt Damon and his co
writers John Krasinski and Dave Eggers, have written a role which is
ostensibly a corporate salesman for big oil but could easily have been
a Wall Street trader coming to terms with the troubling reality of the
financial world.

Steve Butler is the study of a man seriously out of depth, he is doing
a job that he thought he was good at, but suddenly his modus operandi
seems childish and outdated.Matt Damon does not reveal his moral core
throughout, he continues to wear the amour of his flannel shirts, that
he buys to blend in, before he gets to the job of converting the
townspeople to sell out their future.Perhaps he has risen to his level
of incompetence, a classic example of the Peter Principle.But in the
hands of Gus Van Sant its not just about professionalism.He befriends a
charming single woman in a bar, in a town like this its a miracle she
exists.He turns his charm on her just like he does with his audience.
His favorite trick is walking upto the front yard of a house and asking
the kid who may be playing there,"Are you the owner of this place?'When
the confused kid says, "No", he asks,"Then how come you are doing all
the hard work?".That's a slam dunk.

But Steve this time has competition, a man more handsome, more charming
and apparently smarter arrives out of nowhere, with a bunch of damning
photographs which graphically illustrate the nightmare that the
residents are about to wreck on themselves.He not only steals the town
but also the girl.How Steve will deal with this double whammy is the
neat resolution of the film.The resolution exists because filmmaking is
a costly enterprise, but as we learn through the course of this film,
reality is far more complicated than that.

He has a partner, Sue, played by Frances McDormand, who is the perfect
choice for this role.She is tough and business-like and we see her
cringe more than once as Steve turns into a bigger and bigger wreck.She
is a travelling hockey mom, her sons baseball game is her only silver
lining.She manages to remain sane because of this emotional anchor
which Steve does not have.The reality of the environment debate is
complicated and it needs a scientist to decode, played here by Hal
Holbrook, who is able to do a more comprehensive job of using Google to
figure it all out.And yet as he and Steve concur,ultimately its all
about our consumption pattern that we are not willing to discuss, let
alone change.The sad eyes of Halbrook see no hope, only sparks of
revolt, which he provides with his research to the residents.

We start off in Promised Land by looking at Jason Bourne and then
forget all about him.Perhaps this is part of what Damon was aiming for,
to become an actor again rather than a one man action movie
franchise.He succeeds to a very large extent.Francis McDormand is
surely an American national treasure and her performance here is reason
enough to see this film.The cinematography is deliberately fuzzy but
maybe the goal is to make a pretty landscape look ugly and grainy,
photographing the lush landscape and its wonderful actors in sharp
focus would have made it a pretty picture, detracting from its weary
tone.

The oeuvre of Gus Van Sant is full of pieces that study the American
landscape from an intimate leftwing lens.From Milk which looked at a
gay rights activist to Elephant, which quietly observed the Columbine
shootings with a docudrama approach, his films try to decode the
American ethos. Along the way he makes brave choices like reshooting
Psycho shot by shot, a decision for which he has been much vilified,
but his reasons for doing so as a serious director were
commendable.Cinema is better off with experiments like those, never
mind if they fail, or don't make people happy.

Promised Land remarkably reminds one of Peter Bagdanovich's classic
1971 film The Last Picture Show in its study of the collapse of the
American dream.That film perhaps sets the stage for this one, all the
young people have gone away to the city and those that remain must make
frightening life choices.Its easy to see the poverty struck town as a
microcosm of America and the title as a commentary on the shattered
"Great American Dream" (surprisingly not trademarked yet).Mr Van Sant
delivers a richly textures film that neatly sidesteps the environment
question and places individual choices at its centre.

Published on my blog mostlycinema.com
<|_=00=_|>
Director Gus Van Sant reunites with actor Matt Damon once again after
their award winning film Good Will Hunting, but this time with actor
John Krasinski filling in for Ben Affleck as part of the writing-acting
equation in a film that combines a big bad natural gas mining
corporation, sales pitches by its sales people and elements of
environmental protection all rolled into one. The result is an engaging
and reflective look at people who have to lie outright in order to do
their jobs, or to rely on half truths repeated enough times to be
convincingly real, and that prick of conscience should that day arise.

Damon plays the lead role of Steve Butler, whose stellar track record
of closing more land deals at rock bottom prices puts him in pole
position for that cushy headquarters promotion, in a company that deals
with natural gas mining, moving like a Juggernaut and buying up plenty
of agricultural farm land that are sitting on valuable shoal. And the
game plan used by Steve is deceptively simple  to position himself as
one of the town's own, having grown up on a farm, and transforming
himself from corporate bigwig wannabe, to the trusted neighbour down
the street. All he has to do is to close another deal to move into the
corporate boardroom, which would be a piece of cake, except for a
school science teacher to derail his seemingly smooth plan, and getting
the townsfolk to decide based on a majority vote. 

Written by Damon-Krasinski, the story is a fairly interesting one that
takes on both a macro look at the problem at hand, where clean energy
sources may not be as clean as it's made out to be, especially in the
exploiting process, while on the micro level, has plenty of carefully
crafted characters to carry the narrative through. For those of us who
do not understand the environmental impact of wasteful clean energy
production, this film has enough time dedicated so that you'll gather
the gist of it, then use new information against what Steve has to
present, in the name of very real corporate offers that's one time
only, with pressure tactics employed once the feel good option of
thinking about one's children and their education get exhausted.

On a micro level, we learn more about, and almost sympathize with
Steve, who truly believes in the good that his company is doing in
offering a bail out for farmers whose livelihood comes under threat of
inevitable change brought about by big money, and genuine concern about
those who rescind such offers only to be seen blown away by the winds
of change when it comes. If one is skeptical about Damon's dramatic
ability then this film may make you change your mind given his nuanced
performance. Help of course comes in the form of veteran Frances
McDormand, who plays his colleague and partner in crime to fast track
their offer, and stands for that check in progress whenever Steve
uncharacteristically falters in his usual smooth talking ways. Rounding
up the main leads come writer Krasinski himself, as a small time
environmentalist out to tell people about the truth to reject big
money, because it is unsafe, using personal anecdotes to push his point
through. It's small time activist versus big time corporation with
legal and marketing teams, so it's anyone's guess how this would pan
out.

And the outcome is nothing short of brilliance from the story,
especially in its build up in presenting the case from both sides, with
space for some romance thrown in for good measure as both camps slug it
out for mind-share and heart-share using compelling arguments and
guerrilla strategies, up until the final act where the true theme
reveals itself  about lies and their impact. There are those in the
world who can lie straight into your face without batting an eyelid, or
write a report with malicious intent just because they can and are in a
questionable state of mind thinking that their lies won't be seen
through with a thorough enough research. It hits the mark squarely on
the head as well on sales folks and their pitches, that once the deal
is done you're never about to see them ever again, since they've
already moved on, and the fine print in contracts would be what's
governing your life henceforth.

There are those who base their arguments on compelling merits of their
own, and there are those who base it on lies created to belittle others
in an effort to paint a negative picture, hoping that the people you
want to convince buys into your tirade against something. This film
does all it can in having these points hammered by the narrative, until
a scene that had struck me, involving the honesty of simple folk, who
wants nothing but to carry on their simple, honest existence without
the introduction of big money and its corrupting influence come put
everything into a bind. 

Gus Van Sant has made a film with Matt Damon, with Damon giving up what
would be his directorial effort, that's a cold hard look at the power
corporations wield over the little guy, about the truth in controlling
stakes and outcomes, and sets you thinking about this gulf of equality
that never was to begin with. A thought provoking, highly recommended
film!
<|_=00=_|>
Intelligent. Thought-provoking. Thoroughly enjoyed. Accurate portrayal
of big cooperations engaging in an undercover fashion, posing s
ignificant risks to the environment and their business partner's
health, but on the surface exposing the benefits of money by sponsoring
local fairs and baseball team clothing. I admired the fact that it did
show both sides of the issue at hand. Yes, the people in a small
farming community do need money and the cooperations understand this
and see this as their best form of PR because it does help people, but
short-term. But, on the other side - destroying the environment, their
livelihood, their dignity, their health, the animals are long-term
effects that are not accounted for. Anyone who opposes should at least
give the film a shot because it does cover both sides.
