
I saw Inside Llewyn Davis in a sold out matin√©e in Union Square, NYC
last weekend. The city was cold and dreary, much like the 1960s
Manhattan depicted in this film. I sat with my friend after the movie
and basically railed against the film for the first ten minutes before
slowly admitting that my criticisms were obviously the intended result
and that the Coen Brothers have once again made a great movie that is
simply not easy to digest and certainly not fun to digest. 

I'll lead with the greatness. The underlying takeaway of this film is
that the actual creation of music - the sound, the beauty and the
lyrical story - can embody some of the best attributes about humanity
and yet, the creator of such music can nonetheless lack all such
attributes and essentially be as ugly a person as his music is
beautiful. That is the takeaway, and the Coen Bros intentionally force
this upon the viewer. The folk songs song by Lleywn serve as calming
beautiful interludes and as stark contrasts to the plot driven by a
character who is simply put, a terrible human being stuck in an
extremely frustrating, self-made vacuum of an existence. 

I assume that most people, like me, gravitate toward wanting to root
for the struggling artist. There is a nobility in pursuing your dreams
when such dreams consist of the pursuit of an art form. Here, folk
music is put on a pedestal and LLewyn's pursuit of it is from the
outset, something the audience implicitly will support. In the course
of 90 minutes, the Coen Bros force you to question this support, hate
the lead character and eventually cheer when he gets punched in the
face. 

The problem is simple. I did not want any more of LLewyn Davis after 90
minutes. I did not want to hear his music anymore because the lyrics he
sung were fraudulent, the beauty of his playing, a guise. And due to
his self-made failings throughout the film, I no longer cared where his
story went. The Coen Bros could have taken the plot line in any number
of ways to give the viewer some foothold to hope that Llewyn may end up
on the right track one day. They do not give you that foothold, and for
that reason, I was pretty ready for this movie to end when it did. This
is admittedly a criticism, but more an observation. I certainly do not
need films to end with rainbows and hearts, but this script really
forces you to watch a man stuck in a static world where his own actions
cause him to go nowhere, and that is a frustrating world to inhabit for
90 minutes.

The best parts of the film are not the Manhattan scenes, but the drive
LLewyn takes to Chicago. The Coen Bros have used the theme of "driving
at night" time and time again to make some great scenes, usually
emotionally charged personal voyages. This is no different. Their
cinematography and over all character driven story telling shines when
their lead characters hit the road. The bit characters are fun and
unusual in the Coen Bro's way, but do little to ease the 90 minutes of
crass, immature, self-defeating, out-of-touch and eventually just
pathetic life movements from Lleywn's character

For Coen Brother fans, its worth the journey; for general movie fans,
be warned, as this is an interesting film, but arguably not an
enjoyable one.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. If you are a follower of the 
filmmaking Coen Brothers, then you are quite aware of their complete 
lack of artistic interest in any traditionally successful character. 
Their work is inspired by life's obstacles and tough luck, even if 
brought on by a character's own poor judgment. Coen Brother stories 
revolve around those who carry on and have (blind?) faith that their 
approach, no matter how ill conceived, is the only option ... the only 
path worth taking. Their main character this time out seems to think 
life is filled with only careerists (sell-outs) or losers (those who 
can't get a break).

The titular Llewyn Davis (played by Oscar Isaac) is introduced to us 
onstage at the Gaslight singing a beautiful folk song. Moments later he 
is lying in the back alley after taking a whipping from a mysterious 
stranger. It's not until this scene is repeated again at the film's end 
do we understand the cause of this effect. See, Llewyn is not a very 
likable guy. We learn he is still grieving from the suicide of his 
musical partner (as sung by Marcus Mumford), and that he bounces from 
sofa to sofa amongst acquaintances and family members. Llewyn has no 
friends, only acquaintances too kind to throw him out ... even if he 
might be the father of an unwanted baby, or if he accidentally allows a 
beloved pet cat to escape.

The story is based in the folk music scene of 1961 Greenwich Village in 
the pre-Bob Dylan days. The Coen's were inspired by the memoirs of Dave 
Van Ronk entitled "The Mayor of MacDougal Street". So while the songs 
are real and the characters are often inspired or based upon real 
artists of the time, Llewyn's story is pure Coen fiction. That means 
cringing, levels of discomfort, uneasy chuckling and moments of rapture 
... such as John Goodman evoking a drugged out Doc Promus spewing harsh 
poetic diatribes.

We never really know if the Coens are making a statement or tossing it 
out for us to debate. Are they saying that even the ugliness of 
Llewyn's personality can produce something as beautiful as music, or 
are they saying that we get tricked by beautiful music into thinking 
that the artist must also be pure? Carey Mulligan (as Jean) has one of 
the film's best and most insightful lines when she tells Llewyn he is 
"King Midas' idiot brother". Her pure disgust (and expert rendering of 
the F-word) and anger contrasts with her angelic onstage persona with 
husband Jim (Justin Timberlake).

As always, the Coens provide us a constant flow of interesting and 
oddball characters. In addition to Goodman's jazz hipster, we get 
Garrett Hedlund as an ultra cool (til he's not) valet, Adam Driver as a 
cowboy folk singer, Troy Nelson as a virtuous Army folk singer (based 
on Tom Paxton), and Llewyn's Upper East side cat owners, his spunky 
sister, and best of all F Murray Abraham as Bud Grossman, the owner of 
Chicago's Gate of Horn club. Based on the real Albert Grossman who 
discovered Peter, Paul and Mary, and managed Bob Dylan, Grossman is the 
lone witness to Llewyn's audition. This may be the most touching 
musical moment of the movie ("The Death of Queen Jane"), but it's 
clearly the wrong song for the moment.

Oscar Isaac is exceptional as Llewyn Davis. He captures that crisis of 
self that's necessary for an artist whose talent and passion is just 
out of step with societal changes. We feel his pain, but fail to 
understand the lack of caring he often displays towards others. We get 
how his need for money overrides his artistic integrity as he 
participates in the novelty song "Please Mr Kennedy". Why Isaac's 
performance is not garnering more Oscar chat is beyond my 
understanding. It's possibly due to the fact that the movie and his 
character are not readily accessible to the average movie goer. Some 
thought and consideration is required.

If you are expecting a feel good nostalgic trip down the folk singer 
era of Greenwich Village, you will be shocked and disappointed. 
Instead, brace yourself for the trials of a talented musician who 
believes the music should be enough. Speaking of music, the immensely 
talented T Bone Burnett is the man behind the music and it's 
fascinating to note how he allows the songs to guide us through the 
story and keep us ever hopeful of better days. This is the Coen 
Brothers at their most refined and expert. 

<|_=00=_|>
Saw the prescreening at the Michigan Theater in Ann Arbor, MI with
average expectations, this is my reaction:

This film is an experience, but not for any sort of superficial special
effects, action or CGI. It's an experience in which you will feel fear,
joy, hate, hope, sorrow and contempt all within an hour and 45 minutes
that feels more like 15 minutes. We are sidelined, watching a short
snippet of Llewyn's seemingly dismal life, drudge on by, yet we are
drawn. We connect with Lleywn's anger and struggles, as if we too are
burdened by his failures and challenges. But amongst the bad, there are
moments of cheer, and laughter and peace reminding us that good still
exists. What dominates is power, balanced by music, money and pride,
yet this movie is better served as a reminder that life is an
experience, and individualistic. We are reminded that more often than
not, things do not fall into place and luck is rarely on our side. But
no matter how many times people fail you, one should never fail, before
one's self. This movie is an experience, it indirectly breaths life
into each of our souls, and should appeal to anyone in touch with the
most crucial human emotions: compassion and empathy. Hold on tight,
because it is one experience that will remain with you long after the
credits are through. Perfectly casted, perfectly scripted, perfectly
filmed; perfectly entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
Inside Llewyn Davis is a hard film to quantify. It is very much a Coen
Brothers movie, and it is very much its own thing. I did not know the
history of the story. I did not know the story behind the Gaslight club
in New York nor did I know of the famous figure who started at the bar
back in 1961 when the film takes place. I found out after the film was
over. However, not knowing that, I still thought this was an incredible
movie.

There are oddly poetic scenes in the film. There is a scene where the
main character Llewyn Davis hits a cat with his car. As he watches the
cat limp away into the darkness injured, I felt that it was an
interesting image that seemed to mirror Llewyn's life in the film.
Although I was aware of the poetic aspect of the film, I did not feel
that they were forced moments. In interviews the Coen Brothers always
seem to play dumb. In an interview for this film the Coen Brothers
talked about the cat in the movie, and how they didn't know what to do
with the story, so they threw in a cat. Anybody who has seen a Coen
Brothers movie can appreciate that this is far from the truth. Every
moment and image seems to be very specifically placed, and that was the
case for this movie as well.

You can't judge this movie the same way you would judge every other
film this year. It's almost as if the Coen Brothers have their own
language that they are speaking, that the audience does not fully
understand. We catch some things, and even with those few moments, I
was mesmerized. Sometimes I really notice their style like in their
film A Serious Man, and I find myself confused and bored, but this film
felt very true to me. I sympathized with the main character and his
struggles, perhaps because I consider myself a creative person as well,
so I know how hard it is. At one point Llewyn says, "I'm just so f-ing
tired," this line says a lot more than just I want to sleep. It is
something we can all relate to, a feeling of just wanting to give up,
and in this way, the story is a universal one, but then again it's the
Coen Brothers, so automatically I know some people might not like it,
but I loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
Inside Llewyn Davis is an intimate, well-executed, and honest slice of
life. It features a humanistic, heartfelt performance by Oscar Isaac as
the titular folk singer, arresting cinematography, and a sharp,
tight-fisted script by the Coen brothers, who also directed.

It's Greenwich Village in the early sixties, when folk music was either
coming into its own or ready to be usurped by a more mainstream genre.
Llewyn has no home, drifting from gig to gig and crashing on couch
after couch as a matter of design; is vagrancy is his life's plan.
Llewyn is at turns a noble soul who exists for the sake of making the
music he wants to make and a resentful twerp who mooches off friends
just to sustain his unsustainable lifestyle.

The movie is only somewhat linear, with closing scenes mirroring
opening scenes, and it is told entirely from Llewyn's point of view.
The Coen brothers masterfully show us not only Llewyn's perspective but
also an outside perspective; this allows us to feel both empathy and
loathing toward him.

Llewyn is nothing if not complex. The movie does a terrific job of
avoiding the usual clich√©s, such as a down-on-his-luck musician
catching a lucky break, or a bitter man having a quick change of heart.
It's not that Llewyn is constantly sneering at everyone, holding his
poverty up as both a shield and a trophy, it's that he is so
multilayered that when he does a kind act or offers some praise or
thanks, we don't feel that his doing so is in any way out of character.
Llewyn is a self-tortured soul, but unlike caricatures of wandering
folkies, he is at his center a realist, albeit a prideful one.

During his travels and travails, Llewyn encounters people ranging from
the genuine (his singing friends Jim and Jean, played by Justin
Timberlake and Carey Mulligan) to the absurd (a rotund, blustery John
Goodman). Oh, and a cat that travels with Llewyn - at least until he
can get him or her back to the owner. The encounters with the genuine
folks feel just as normal as if you or I encountered them; those with
the more absurd of the lot feel perfectly surreal, and when they do end
one almost wonders if we've all imagined the encounters through Llewyn
himself.

The music is beautiful and moving. Isaac himself performs Llewyn's
songs, with a sweet, vulnerable voice that offers a touch of soul to
Llewyn's otherwise-bleak surroundings. When Llewyn is really on, you
can feel his pain leap right off the screen into your brain; when he
appears to be going through the motions and not singing from his heart,
you can feel the lack of depth that his intended audience also feels.
Isaac is just flat-out terrific.

Ultimately, it is Isaac and the music that push this film into the
territory of great cinema. The story itself is stark, moody, unyielding
- just like a New York City winter, really. And the movie, like
Llewyn's own life, appears to have no point - except to illustrate just
how pointless Llewyn is making his life, through his stubborn marriage
to his craft and a desire to stay uprooted
<|_=00=_|>
It's amazing how dazzled one can be by so very little these days.
There's very little here--a struggling unpleasant man who sings his
heart out about standard "folk" catastrophes but can't take care of
himself as he goes about damaging others, and animals as well. He's
your 50's college roommate who cooks on a hot plate and sings about
historic heroic starvations. The in- and-out mythic references are
unfocused and a game for undergraduates. When the Coens go flat it's
not even E flat. We're forced to watch this guy's face for an hour or
so without a clue to his demons; he's just a jerk, a driven jerk but a
jerk nonetheless. 

Best part is the recreation of the early 60's in cars, atmospheres, but
then John Goodman shows up from "Where art thou?" and spoils the
realistic angst. Sorry, but the early folk scene wasn't this creepy and
Bob Dylan didn't rescue it from oblivion or creepiness. Without a
political or sexual agenda (it got you chicks) it did flounder, but it
needed an audience for shifting values and social awareness. One's
suffering couldn't just be for one's art, but had to have a social
dimension that this guy can't see. A genius before his time? Hardly--a
guy who can't take care of himself, or his friends or family or
lovers--anything but "folk." The times they were a changin', but this
guy's a talented pathetic scrounge and lacks the connections to others
and society that might propel him to sing for the changing times.

This might be the ethos of the Coens and their films themselves--within
society but not of it. Their characters struggle with their messy
quirky lives but we see them as curiosities rather than representatives
of anything important. There's a certain clown show aspect to their
films, which creates their charm and fun but little else.
<|_=00=_|>
"If it was never new, and it never gets old, then it's a folk song."

The Coen brothers have worked together over the past couple of decades
delivering some inspiring work. Their films are extremely varied
(ranging from dark comedies to westerns or thrillers) and that is why
people rank their films so differently according to their own genre
preferences. What these films tend to have in common is that they focus
on an unfortunate main character (the Coen brothers don't seem to be
too interested in successful characters) and they also include a lot of
quirky characters. The Coens are also great at writing interesting
characters that despite being unpleasant at times still capture our
attention, and they also include a lot of dark and sharp humor. Inside
Llewyn Davis is one of those films where we are forced to follow an
unpleasant guy in the course of a week and somehow hope he recovers and
achieves his goal. This is a film that you probably enjoy more when you
think about it once it's over or on a rewatch because it's
philosophical and sad, but rewarding none the less if you stick through
it. It is also open to many readings and interpretations. You can think
of this as being an honest film about someone who doesn't achieve his
dreams. We've been saturated with so many films that focus on following
our dreams and never giving up on them, but it is rare to see a film
focusing on someone who doesn't achieve them. Like Llewyn, we sometimes
throw away other possibilities for success because we are too blinded
on pursuing our own thing. That is exactly what happens here (and in
this way it differs from A Serious Man where the main character suffers
misfortune from things that he can't control). Llewyn could've listened
and taken good advice, but he's so narcissistic and blinded by his own
ambition that he misses several good opportunities. Another way you can
read this film, and this is the one that worked best for me, is that
Llewyn is learning to cope with the loss of his partner. He was a
better singer when he wasn't on his own and now that he has lost his
partner he doesn't seem to know what to do next. He is a tortured
artist struggling to cope with grief. It's as if the Coens were
admitting that they wouldn't know how to make films without each other.
They inspire one another and that is where their success relies.
Perhaps if something would happen to one of them they would feel like
Llewyn, lost and unable to move on. This is just brilliant filmmaking
and the Coens prove once again that they are on top of their game.

The film takes place in the course of one week as we follow a
struggling folk singer named Llewyn Davis (Oscar Isaacs) across
Greenwich Village in the winter of 1961. He has recently released a
solo album that isn't selling. With no money and no apartment, Llewyn
spends his days jumping from couch to couch at friends houses while
performing small gigs at local Cafes. One of the places he crashes in
is at fellow musicians, Jim (Justin Timberlake) and Jean's (Carey
Mulligan) apartment. Llewyn isn't really a guy anyone wants to be
around much, but he continues to pursue his dream of becoming a solo
artist. In a way he's his own worst enemy as many of the obstacles he
faces are his own doing. 

I'm not a fan of depressing films, but somehow the Coens captured my
attention through their smart script and beautifully constructed film.
The gray cinematography is gorgeous and really sets the melancholic
tone of the film. Somehow despite not liking Llewyn, Isaacs manages to
portray his character so well that we do root for him and want him to
succeed. It's an impressive film that succeeds thanks to Isaacs
heartfelt performance. We also get to meet some of the quirky
characters that the Coens always include in their films. John Goodman
and Garrett Hedlund were the chosen ones this time around and they both
added the dark humor in this otherwise sad and melancholic film. The
soundtrack is also a lot of fun to listen too and Isaacs has a great
voice.
<|_=00=_|>
At some point of this the folk singer we've been following is stranded
at night by the side of the road in a car with possibly a dead man and
a cat, another man has just been arrested by police for not much of a
reason. He gets out to hitch a ride and there's only a cold,
indifferent night with strangers in their cars just going about.

This is the worldview the Coens have been prodding, sometimes for a
laugh, sometimes not. I can't fault them, it does seem to be
inexplicably cold out there some nights. They're thinkers first of all,
intellectuals, so it stings them more so they try to think up ways of
mocking that thinker who is stung by the cold to amuse themselves and
pass the night. 

So this is what they give us here. A joyless man for no particular
reason, who plays decent music that people enjoy or not for no
particular reason, who the universe has turned against. The Coens don't
pretend to have any particular answer either of why this is, why the
misery. It might have something to do with having lost a friend,
something to do with not having learned to be simply grateful for a
small thing. It might have something to do with something he did, the
initial beating up in the alley is there to insert this. Sometimes it's
just something that happens as random as a cat deciding to step out of
the door and the door closing before you can put it back in. Most of
the time it all kind of snowballs together.

It's a noir device (the beating - cat) bundling guilt with chance so
we'll end up with a clueless schmuck whose own contribution to the
nightmare is inextricable from the mechanics of the world. The Coens
have mastered noir so they trot it here with ease: the more this
anti-Dude fails to ease into life the more noir anomaly appears around
him.

Of course the whole point is that it's not such a bad setup; people let
him crash in their apartment, a friend finds him a paying gig, somehow
he ends up on a car to Chicago where he's offered a job. It's not great
either, but somewhere in there is a pretty decent life it could all
amount to, provided he settles for less than his dream. (This means
here a dream the self is attached to). I saw this after a documentary
on backup singers, all of them profoundly troubled for having settled
for less, all of them nonetheless happy to be able to do their music.

Still, 'The incredible journey', seen on the Disney poster, may in the
end amount to no more than an instinctive drive through miles of
wilderness. The Coens are cold here even for their standards. I
wouldn't be surprised to find it was Ethan, the more introverted of the
two, ruminating on a meaningless art without his partner.

Is there a way out in the end? Here's the trickiest part, especially
for an intelligent mind. You can't just kid yourself with any other
happiness like Hollywood has done since Chaplin. You know it has to be
invented to some degree, the point of going on, yet truthful. Nothing
here. More music, a reflection. It's the emptiest part of the film as
if they didn't know themselves what to construct to put him back on
stage. Visually transcending was never their forte anyway. They merely
end up explaining the wonderful noir ambiguity of that first beating.

Still they are some of the most dependable craftsmen we have and in the
broader Coen cosmos this sketches its own space.
<|_=00=_|>
There have been movies made about musicians, both real and imagined,
from End of the Century through I'm Not There, taking in The Future is
Unwritten and A Mighty Wind. We've had almost every conceivable
approach, from straight-up documentary through imagined version of
events as well as completely invented bands, singers, songs, and
concerts. Yet, I don't think that anyone has ever managed to do what
the Coen Brothers have produced with this tragic, comedic, touching
piece.

Which is to essentially transport you into the grooves of an LP, Inside
Llewyn Davies, and bring you a beautifully realised portrayal of the
eponymous hero as he trudges his weary way through the greys and greens
of Greenwich Village in a cold New York. And it is so reminiscent of
the experience of listening to your favourite vinyl album from track
one, side one to the final track of side two, whilst curling up on the
couch with a cat in your lap, listening to a selection of melodic,
melancholic, traditional, and new folk music.

The music binds this movie together and Oscar Issac inhabits the title
role in a world-weary way that aches with ennui and longs for something
never expressed. We follow his tramping travails through a range of
vignettes that build subtly towards creating a quite compelling picture
of the man behind the music. He sometimes does what we expect and at
other junctures, veers off in a mad new direction. There is little
explanation for any of the decisions that he does, or doesn't, take.
He's searching without any clear idea of the quest.

Along the way, we meet a wonderfully diverse bunch of supporting
characters, from the biting Jean, acerbic tongue and acid looks,
through the snoring bully Roland Turner and his valet Johnny Five, as
well as Mitch and Lilian, the Upper West posh couple, but especially
Ulysses, our hero's apparent companion over the week (or was s/he?).
They all offer opportunities to understand Davies' psyche slightly
more, albeit admitting that not even he appears to be fully cognisant
himself.

It's a lovely looking film, beautifully shot and much more enjoyable
that I would have believed possible from watching the trailer
previously. T Bone Burnett has done a sterling job on the soundtrack,
it's so affecting and the way that the songs are all allowed to play
out saw the audience in the cinema in which I saw this mainly remaining
seated through the end credits as well. Which brings me back to the
vinyl album sensation. You don't pick up the needle when your favorite
record is playing the final track, because you want to get on with
something else instead. No. You let it run right to the end of the
groove and then your heart fills with an equal mixture of pleasure and
joy, sorrow and sighs, as the last bars fade to quiet and all that's
gone before becomes a memory that's so strong and so addictive that you
want to turn it over and put the needle back into the groove all over
again.

This movie is precisely like that sensation and I loved it, from first
frame to last. A quiet understated tragi-comedy, dark in places, and
shadowy in others, but with a humanity and a compassion that you cannot
avert our gaze from. Hell, it's even got a coda of a scene to be
dealing with, which at the end takes your mind back to the start of the
production and forces one to reexamine what has just passed before your
eyes. Recommended.
