
The Last Exorcism Part II is simply put a terrible movie. I absolutely
loved the first film but Part II is like the Blair Witch Project 2 of
the original Blair Witch Project. Its unnecessary, it doesn't
accomplish anything and it doesn't push the story forward. All this
film was made for was to show you how Nell tries to recover after the
events of the first film. THATS IT! The scares are few and far between
the story is just downright dumb from the beginning and you never
really feel for any of the characters from the get go. I wouldn't
recommend seeing this film even for the fans of the first one. Besides
a daring opening sequence, a few moments of suspense and interesting
character moments this movie is a complete fluke. The Last Exorcism
accomplished a sense of true horror and dread. You actually felt for
the characters. Part II I see more of as a Dark Comedy. You can't even
take this movie seriously at times. It seems the only reason this
sequel was made was because the first film made 100 million at the box
office. Thats it! 

3 out of 10 stars. This movie was just bad. Simple as that!
<|_=00=_|>
Never do I rate a movie 1, and the only reason I did on this movie as
there was not the ability to rate it a zero or less. The Last Exorcism
Part II is a complete waste of time. It is NOTHING like other Exorcism
movies, nor is even come lose to being scary. About all you get out of
this is a lot of deep looking facial expressions by Ashley Bel who
plays Nell. I was so disappointed in that there was nothing really
scary, some possessed people who just talk scary, yet the demon is
never really there. The scenes were so disjointed, and after 30
minutes, I felt like OK, this has gone so slow up until now, something
really scary is going to happen next... I was mistaken. After 45
minutes, I waited, after an hour, I waited, then figuring that this was
going to be a great and scary ending.. I waited.. Then the credits
roll! ARE you freaking kidding me? This has to be the G rated version
of scary movies of all time. Like another review hit on, the only
reason it seems that this movie was made was to pry money from those
that saw the first movie and thinking this will be a continuation of
that. Here is the fact of life, if you go see this movie thinking it is
a scary or demonic movie, the Joke will be on you as the movie maker
laughs all the way to the bank.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm really confused as to why this has received such bad user reviews,
i'll admit the title of this film kinda contradicts itself but i
honestly believe this was an attempt to redeem the crappiness of the
first movie, and it succeeded! Afterall "Evil Dead" had a sequel
because the first one was rubbish and thats one of the best movies out
there.. This isn't your typical possession film where you watch your
generic 19 year old girl speak in a monotone demonic voice and you
don't really care what happens to her because you've seen it a hundred
time before. The girl in this you will actually feel sorry for, she is
being taunted by the demon though everything thats actually good in her
life and it's a shame, coupled with the fact she is a really good
actress makes it a decent film, it tries to inspire emotion through
flashbacks which is a really nice touch too. It will also become clear
why it's called "The Last Exorcism" too! These negative reviews
obviously come from people who had the whole script written in their
heads before they pressed play, and it's a shame that their
disappointment may affect others that just want to watch a movie and be
surprised! Anyway it's 80 minutes and it's a pretty decent film, give
it a shot if you have the time
<|_=00=_|>
Before I start I must say I love the first movie, great story and
acting. Normally I dislike the amateur camera story telling, but the
camera shots were well handled and was only distorted when the theme
calls for it which fuse well with the dramatic ending.

I really don't believe this movie (the sequel) deserves all the
negative reviews and here is why.

From a technical perspective, I thought the cinematography was superb,
lots of beautiful artistic shots adding to the mood of the movie. The
build up of hopelessness and dread, it lays solid foundation to the
climatic ending. I was expecting something similar to the last movie
but the change was quite refreshing.

In terms of acting, Ashley Bell did a terrific job as a terrorized girl
with no one to trust and no where to turn. 

Granted the story is simple on the surface and shot with many of the
"jump from behind" scene to startle the viewer. It may seem like "god"
has forsaken Nil as she was chased by the demon throughout the film and
finally the ones who was suppose to help her tries to kill her as they
realize they are no match for the demon's power (clearly no one is
looking out for Nil). The ending is non-traditional where Evil wins
over good, but is the "good" deserving? (Girls watching YouTube videos
to makes fun of Nil, the Order whom tries to kill Nil when they are
frightened by the demon's power, the care taker is perhaps the only one
none deserving of his fate)

This type of ending is more frequent in Japanese horror where the dark
force cannot be conquered by man and shows how small we are in nature.
Perhaps the slight to our all controlling north American ego and an
attack on "God" failing to step up as the mighty protector is the
reason behind all the negative comments placed on this film.

In summary I give a 8/10 rating to this film and looking forward to a
final installment in the completion of a trilogy.
<|_=00=_|>
Nell Sweetzer tries to rebuild her life right after the events depicted
in the first film. Now living in home for girls she tries to forget the
horrific events she experienced only to find out that they are all too
real.

This is a good sequel to the first in which the demons true intentions
are revealed. It uses classic horror tactics and stays away from the
traditional exorcism films. The plot was well grounded and the acting
specially from Ashley Bell was outstanding. This was not filmed in the
found footage style which adds more depth to the story. The ending to
this film was definitely my favorite part and I enjoyed this good old
fashioned horror flick.

I was rather skeptical at first due to the low ratings on IMDb but I
keep forgetting that horror films are not for everyone but if you do
enjoy them this is a must see!! 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
The Last Exorcism Part II (2013) 

Shortly after the events in the first film, survivor Nell tries to put
her life back together as well as she can but she soon realizes that
whatever was wrong with her is still there and coming back for more.
this film is without question one of the worst horror films I've seen
in a very long time. Year after year bad horror films are released but
this here is at the very bottom of the barrel. After a quick look at
the events in the previous film, we're introduced to an incredibly
unsecured pure-credit sequence, which pretty much tells you we're in
for a dud. There's not a single thing that happens in this film that is
scary. The majority of the attempted scares come from soft music
playing before there's a loud bang with loud noises. This clich√© is
just so boring and so tiresome that you wish people would stop using
it. Director Ed Gass- Donnelly deserves a lot of the blame because
there's just nothing interesting here. The visuals are all rather
boring and predictable. There's not a bit of atmosphere to be found
anywhere. For a horror movie the lack of scares is a major
disappointment but what makes them even worse is that they're all so
poorly staged and delivered. The screenplay also deserves a lot of
blame. As with the first film, this one here has a lot of character
development early on. We see Nell struggling to get on with her life.
We see her at work cleaning hotel rooms. We see her fall for a boy and
we see her and her girlfriends going for walks. After a while you start
to wonder if the filmmakers forgot they were making a horror film. I
don't mind character development but none of the characters here are
all that interesting and this includes Nell. Not for a second did I
care what happened to her and I certainly didn't care to find out the
secrets behind the first film. The performances aren't too bad but did
you really come here for that? the film is a really horrid sequel to a
decent movie. It's funny but the first movie came to a close with a
horrid ending and then this film pretty much picked up that horrid and
carried it to a new level. And don't even get me started on the ending
here.

1/5 Stars

Bmorecrafty-Bmorebloger
<|_=00=_|>
New Pope Francis 1 should ban exorcism films as they insult the
intelligence of viewers. 

This film is so boring and derivative. What's the big deal about Nell
floating above her bed.

She hears the usual weird noises and sees funny things, typical in all
exorcism films.

This film plods along at a leisurely pace until the exorcism, which is
so weird that you have to see it to believe it.

WHO brings a heart monitor, a chicken and salt to an exorcism???? Ha
ha.

www.jeffleemovies.com
<|_=00=_|>
The Last Exorcism Part II (2013) 

BOMB (out of 4) 

Shortly after the events in the first film, survivor Nell (Ashley Bell)
tries to put her life back together as well as she can but she soon
realizes that whatever was wrong with her is still there and coming
back for more. THE LAST EXORCISM PART II is without question one of the
worst horror films I've seen theatrically in a very long time. Year
after year bad horror films are released but this here is at the very
bottom of the barrel. After a quick look at the events in the previous
film, we're introduced to an incredibly unscary pre-credit sequence,
which pretty much tells you we're in for a dud. There's not a single
thing that happens in this film that is scary. The majority of the
attempted scares come from soft music playing before there's a loud
bang with loud noises. This clich√© is just so boring and so tiresome
that you wish people would stop using it. Director Ed Gass-Donnelly
deserves a lot of the blame because there's just nothing interesting
here. The visuals are all rather boring and predictable. There's not a
bit of atmosphere to be found anywhere. For a horror movie the lack of
scares is a major disappointment but what makes them even worse is that
they're all so poorly staged and delivered. The screenplay also
deserves a lot of blame. As with the first film, this one here has a
lot of character development early on. We see Nell struggling to get on
with her life. We see her at work cleaning hotel rooms. We see her fall
for a boy and we see her and her girlfriends going for walks. After a
while you start to wonder if the filmmakers forgot they were making a
horror film. I don't mind character development but none of the
characters here are all that interesting and this includes Nell. Not
for a second did I care what happened to her and I certainly didn't
care to find out the secrets behind the first film. The performances
aren't too bad but did you really come here for that? THE LAST EXORCISM
PART II is a really horrid sequel to a decent movie. It's funny but the
first movie came to a close with a horrid ending and then this film
pretty much picked up that horrid and carried it to a new level. And
don't even get me started on the ending here.
<|_=00=_|>
Somehow the found footage genre still seems to be churning out films
even though most of them are just bad. The Last Exorcism was one that
worked pretty well as it made sense to the story and the overall film
was executed pretty well, despite the lame ending. To no one's surprise
the success of that film spawned a sequel that intelligently decided to
move away from the found footage style and make it a normal movie that
looks to be pretty cool, despite it's somewhat silly name.

The Last Exorcism II follows Nell as she tries to build a new life
after escaping the events of the original film, but when things seem to
be going well the evil that once possessed her returns to take back its
host. Much like the Blair Witch Project, Exorcism decided to go this
other route with its sequel, but unlike it tried to keep the story
intact. The story is perfect for the direction to keep this story
moving, but sadly the film doesn't offer all that much. If not for
Ashley Bell, reprising her role, this film would have fallen apart
fast. She is so great in this role delivering all the emotional torment
and innocence needed to make this character work. Beyond here there is
really little going on in this movie other than her wandering around
Louisiana. We all know that the formula of the possession films is the
slow build, but when we already have an established story and character
there is no need for it to be this slow. The few moments of "haunting"
that you do get work well enough, but nothing like the powerful imagery
of the first film that made it stand out so much.

This is one of those sequels that wasn't needed but welcomed in hopes
to make up for what they did with the silly ending of its predecessor.
Make no mistake this isn't a horrible movie, it is actually still
pretty entertaining on some levels, just doesn't push the limits like
it should have. The ending proved to be a bit of an interesting
direction to continue the series, but was just a bit too little too
late to pack the punch it needed.
<|_=00=_|>
This sequel will go down as one of those that have gone horribly off
tangent to its source material and original, which is a pity because
the first film had a solid finale which left it as a cliffhanger of
sorts, but this direct follow up junked every good thing about the
movie in no less than 5 minutes into the film, and had everything go
downhill after that. For writer- director Ed Gass-Donnelly, I'm sorry
to say that while you have had good intentions and decided to forward
the story without the use of the found-footage gimmick, I wonder why
you didn't choose to be less derivative from classics such as Carrie
and Firestarter.

The first film worked because of a couple of reasons. First and
foremost, it was a compelling premise, where a jaded pastor-conman
decided to spill the beans in his profession, and herein lies the
actual reason that it was found-footage because of an embedded
documentary crew that followed him around while he exposed the secrets
in his shady trade. Then there's proper character building, where we
empathized with Cotton Marcus (Patrick Fabian), and understood why he
decided to make good the wrongs in his life, and this worked into a
tale of faith. Then the antagonist, spearheaded by Ashley Bell's
wonderful portrayal as Nell, contained all ingredients necessary that
blended horror and mystery together, plus her ability to contort
herself in all angles imaginable. And who can forget that goosebumps
raising finale.

Not a lot of people took to that film of course, but it worked well for
me. Then came Gass- Donnelly and his idea of continuing directly where
the first film left off, was quite brilliant. Naturally there isn't any
reason to pursue this in found footage again, so the major decision was
to come up with a straight narrative film, following Nell as she ends
up in a girls' home, since she did not bear any memories on what had
happened in the final few moments of the first film. And here is where
everything turned south as far as the story went. We get introduced to
characters who were as flimsy as they were cardboard, and a romance
that was totally flat from the get go. 

Yes we know that Nell is given every opportunity to assimilate back to
normal society, but this was boring as hell when translated for the big
screen, because there wasn't much emotions involved, and made it look
very artificial, with scenes included because they just should. There
were attempts to spook the audience, but even this relied on the tried
and tested techniques which didn't offer anything new, especially when
threats were issued usually through scratchy voices that may have come
from imagination. To add further insult, there wasn't much of a "last"
exorcism here, so the title was nothing more than to remotely link this
film to the previous one, which had every reason to be "last", because
well, that's what had happened. Here, while the exorcism performed was
of a different style, it was so small a portion of screen time that it
was quite negligible, especially its outcome.

What made it worthwhile was went Gass-Donnelly shifted gears to add a
sense of urgency into the narrative in the final act, and things were
really looking up especially when we had Nell confront her inner
demons, and pick a side to root for. But then the brakes got applied
again when you suddenly realize that the director had gone the
direction of films such as Carrie and Firestarter, both written by
Stephen King, and you wonder whether that's all that Gass-Donnelly can
do, to become nothing more than a derivative of those two works. This
film could have been labeled as "Nell" and perhaps it may win over some
thought that it's about the misadventures of a possessed character,
rather than the process to get her exorcised for good. Rewatching the
first film will give you better value, and thrills.
