
I'm going to preface this review by stating the obvious (and what no
doubt some may be quick to point out in defense of the sequel): look,
it's "Dumb and Dumber" we're talking about here; not "Citizen Kane".
But I feel like that disclaimer only goes so far, because frankly, the
original "Dumb and Dumber" is one of the funniest films I've ever seen
-- endlessly quotable, thoroughly likable. The key to the movie, I
think, is that there's an underlying sweetness to the humor: Lloyd and
Harry (Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels) are never presented as malicious.
Most of the bad stuff that happens to them is inadvertent, and often at
the expense of trying to do a good deed (e.g. Lloyd trying to return
the briefcase).

The new movie left me with a bad taste in my mouth, and it wasn't just
the cheap, garish, ugly cinematography (the movie literally has the
appearance of a Funny or Die or SNL sketch, with brightly lit, obvious
set pieces; frankly, it has the aesthetics of a soap opera).

What left me reeling was the movie's cruel streak -- it turns Harry and
Lloyd into deliberately mischievous cretins, and the inherent humour is
drained from any potential scenarios as a result of their self-
awareness. Roger Ebert used to talk about this a lot in his reviews --
it's only funny if the character isn't aware of what he's doing. So
when Lloyd and Harry accidentally poison the hit-man hired to kill them
in the original Dumb an Dumber, it's funny; when they deliberately
sabotage a convention in "Dumb and Dumber To," screaming at a woman to
show them her naked body, or gleefully discuss being responsible for a
man's death in front of his parents, it's...not funny. It's immature,
it's crass, and most importantly, *it goes against the very thing that
made these characters funny in the first place!*

I find it hard to believe all these original cast and crew members
could re-assemble for a film 20 years later and so completely
misunderstand the appeal of their own movie. 

Beyond the inherent lack of humor in the mean-spirited hijinks these
characters get themselves into this time around, many of the film's
one- liners and jokes just aren't funny either. Sorry, but no matter
how many times you repeat it, using the word 'butthole' isn't really
that amusing.

The film also lazily falls back on repeating some of the original
film's plot points and, indeed, one-liners (e.g. Lloyd's "I like it a
lawwwt" or the mannerisms he makes when mixing a drink, identical to
the first film). It confuses homage for humour, recycling gags without
providing them in a fresh context, which simply reminds us of how much
funnier they were the first time around.

And then there are the performances. The Farrellys said Jim Carrey
hadn't seen the original movie for something like 15 years before
agreeing to doing the sequel, and I'm not surprised. He doesn't seem to
remember the comic energy he imbued Lloyd with in the original film;
instead, he turns Lloyd into an unlikable, borderline creepy manchild
with overly exaggerated stupidity and mannerisms. I think the simplest
way of summarizing the mistake here is that they jumped the shark from
'dumb' to 'willfully stupid.' And, again to paraphrase the late Mr
Ebert, this is the difference between funny and not funny.

This movie is not funny. It's not even mildly amusing in the manner in
which I expected a long-delayed sequel may be. If it had been lazy and
fallen back on repeating gags from the original film, fair enough; if
it contained the same sweet-natured spirit of the original movie, then
maybe that would have been its saving grace. Instead, it's not only
unfunny, it's egregiously nasty and vile, and when I left the theater I
just immediately wanted to wash the taste out.

I remember seeing "Dumb and Dumberer: When Harry Met Lloyd" years ago
in theaters, hating it, and thinking how much better it would have been
if they had convinced Jim Carrey to come back for a proper sequel.
Imagine my surprise 11 years later that this movie doesn't have a
single scene as funny as that one's Bob Saget cameo. What a complete
and utter let- down this movie was.
<|_=00=_|>
I was pretty disappointed in this movie, and I'm not really sure why.
There were definitely some funny parts where I laughed, but the whole
thing felt pretty....forced. Harry and Lloyd felt like exaggerated
versions of themselves, the storyline was just OK, and I think what
threw me off the most was that so much of the movie was recycled.

I mean, you wait this long for a sequel to an absolutely classic movie,
you start wondering what brilliance they must be cooking up. However, a
LOT of the jokes were literally the same as the ones from the original,
like exactly the same. They also tried to recreate similar scenes, they
even used a lot of the same soundtrack. While some may see this as
nostalgia, I saw it as lazy film making. 

I also didn't particularly like the silliness. The first movie had some
random very silly parts that in context of the rest of the genuinely
funny parts didn't bother me at all. However, this movie seemed to be
made up of entirely ridiculous scenes. Almost cartoon like in the way
it was done. Not a fan. It reminded me a little of the three stooges
movie.

Overall, just not worth going to the movies to see. It's a shame Jim
Carey and Jeff Daniels waited this long just to put out something so
mediocre.
<|_=00=_|>
Picture this: It's 20 years ago and you are at a party with stale pizza
and warm beer. You plan on leaving early, then the life of the party
shows up and makes it the most memorable party you ever went to.

20 years later, you plan a reunion and bring better pizza, a cooler
filled with beer and invite everyone to the same place again. The same
jokes are told and everyone leaves early. 

That is what Dumb and Dumber is. I loved the first one so much that I
am still willing to be happy with the reunion for old time sake. 

It seems like all the variables were in place, and everyone just kept
waiting for magic to happen. It seems like it was filmed well enough,
and everyone thought they would fix it in post. Then in the edit room,
everyone figured, "Well they shot it how they want it." and left it
long and loose. It was very paint by numbers, and everyone followed the
script. In a movie where the script was just there simply as a
framework to be expanded upon. The timing is off and there is no punch.

This may be what happens when modern studio execs watch too many
dailies and start influencing the editing process too much, and take
the funny away from the people they paid to be funny. Next time, light
the fire cracker and walk away. Let the experts be experts.
<|_=00=_|>
As a big fan of Dumb and Dumber, I went into Dumb and Dumber To trying
not to let wistfulness paint the sequel too positively. Those worries
quickly dissipated, as To is a forced and aggressively unfunny
gross-out comedy. It's the absolute worst kind of sequel: the kind that
repeats old jokes to try and get a cheap cheer of nostalgia. All the
while, laziness and overt offensiveness abound, with jokes never
reaching higher than the lowest of low hanging fruit. It disappoints
completely, like a desperate old rock singer trying to hit the same
notes he used to, but consistently falling flat. While the first was a
brilliantly inspired bit of comedic stupidity, Dumb and Dumber To is
just plain stupid. We find our puerile protagonists older but none-the
wiser, still getting in over their heads yet unwittingly finding their
way through it. Plot is not the movie's aim, and it doesn't need to be.
What it does need to be, however, is funny. Unfortunately the jokes are
understandably irreverent, yet also socially inept and rarely
successful. Worst of all is that Daniels' Harry and Carrey's Lloyd have
completely lost the chemistry that once bound them. They've become
purely sad parodies of their former selves. Maybe I'm taking this too
seriously. I mean, the Farrelly's have proved to be nothing more than
perpetual 10-year-olds, and they manage one or two moments of contrived
laughter. But one or two laughs in a 100-minute movie just isn't
enough. Clearly the filmmakers think the audience is as dumb as their
leads. We're not.
<|_=00=_|>
LIke many others I thought this movie was going to be that sequel you
wish they didn't make. Because I love Dumb and Dumber. And it seemed
the only reason they made this sequel is because the directors and one
of the actors haven't been doing good stuff, the last couple of years.

But surprisingly, Dumb and Dumber To is actually pretty fun. Sure some
things have changed that aren't so great. The jokes are hit-and-miss,
sometimes the timing is way off and the characters of Lloyd and Harry
are a little more mean-spirited and maybe even a little too dumb at
times. But on the other hand everyone really did their best to make
this feel like a Dumb and Dumber film. Unlike the god-awful prequel
this film really feels like Dumb and Dumber and it's actually fun to
see some scenes re-created, but with a new little twist, or characters
from the original film returning. And even though some jokes and scenes
are forced, I have to admit the film actually had a great deal of
scenes that made me laugh a lot.

So as a big fan of the original film I was surprised that I enjoyed
this film as much as I did. Let's all not expect a masterpiece, but a
film we can enjoy, that pays a nice homage to the original and well ...
really could have been a l√≥t worse.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I was pretty excited to see this one, knowing that no matter how
bad it might turn out to be, these two still would never fail at making
you laugh, now it's not as good as the first, but it sure does make you
laugh, it's just unbelievable how dumb these two are, time will never
heal how stupid they are, and they sure won't be getting better any
time soon, they're still as dumb, still funny, and still as
entertaining as they were in the first, but I don't know if it's just
me or the fact that the first was just too good to beat, I was honestly
expecting this one to be even more fun, but it wasn't, the first was
better, but this one wasn't bad at all, I would go back to watch it
again with a friend if I was asked to, you wouldn't get bored watching
this, as everything these two do is a complete mess, it's worth the
watch, and definitely worth the ticket.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted this to be a good movie so badly, because I am such a big fan
of the original... But it is NOT a good movie at all. It's terrible.

This was the worst sequel of all time... All it did was try to rehash
moments from the original movie, and it failed miserably. I was so
disappointed. I don't think I laughed once. I forced myself to stay in
the theater praying it would "take off" but it never did.

I also can't believe that the Farrelly brothers were involved... The
special effects (what little there were) looked terrible, so I can only
assume that they created this movie on a low budget to try and make
money on the name.
<|_=00=_|>
It seems that there are a lot of great movies that don't need to have a
sequel, yet somehow they are given one. Dumb And Dumber To can be put
on the list of bad sequels. 

Did the Farrlley Bros merely use this to cash in on the cult classic?
Maybe, and I mean, who wouldn't? 

Where do I start. There is NO DIRECTION in this movie. There is hardly
any substance into the plot. The acting was really bad, and I am gonna
call out Jeff Daniels specifically. We all know Jim Carey is a comedic
actor.... that's it. We aren't expecting any Oscar worthy performances
from him. Now Jeff Daniels is a notable actor who has done almost every
genre. He also just won an Emmy for Best Lead Actor In A Drama Series
for "The Newsroom". This was a different Harry Dunn in this movie. It
was awful. 

Lloyd says in the beginning "Comedy is all about timing", and it's
ironic because the timing was miscued for 75% of the movie. The movie
drags along for quite awhile. It becomes very dull, and there was a
20-25 minute period where nobody in the theater laughed. THAT IS NOT
GOOD IF YOU'RE WATCHING A COMEDY.

Were there some funny moments? Yes. Was it nice to see Harry and Lloyd?
Of course! But I gotta say that this movie may kill Carey's/ Farrelly
Bros career. This movie basically felt like it was made 18-15 years too
late. It was very outdated.

Those who grade this higher than a 5 must have missed out on the
original... because this was garbage. Very sad and disappointed. Don't
waste your time.
<|_=00=_|>
Trying to write and produce a sequel is always a difficult feat! I
laughed a lot at the first Dumb and Dumber with it's benign humor and
great situations of awkward comedy. But "Dumb and Dumber To" labored at
trying to be funny, including extreme poor taste in making fun of the
parents son, who died in a motorcycle accident caused by the stupidity
of Lloyd. Lloyd tries to make the parents, who are visibly very
uncomfortable, see how funny the circumstances were that caused their
son's death. The parents were very upset and slammed the door in the
face of Lloyd and Harry. At that point in the movie I walked out with
my family and we all got our money back. Unfortunately, several
attempts throughout the movie at humor were in very poor taste, and
overacted. One scene where Harry and Lloyd are riding on the front of
the bus was true to the good humor of the first "Dumb and Dumber". If
the writers had pursued more of that kind of humor throughout the movie
they would have had an even greater success and more viewers would
have, undoubtedly, returned for another laugh. Whether the movie got
any worse or better I don't know, but what I did see was enough to
convince me that the writers were scraping the bottom of the barrel for
their content.
<|_=00=_|>
I can assure you that I won't "spoil" it for anyone because my
girlfriend and I left after about 45 agonizing minutes of watching this
horrible movie...it spoiled all by itself! It's disappointing too
because I was a HUGE fan of the original D&D but this was nothing close
to that. Carrey and Daniels try too hard to recreate their roles with
sub-par dialogue and a story line that is just lame, and it just
doesn't work. That and the fact that they tried to "raunch it up" a
notch I guess thinking it would make it funnier.....it didn't.

I'm all about silly comedy such as the original D&D and Ace Ventura
movies but this movie isn't silly, just stupid.

This worst thing about it is that since seeing this movie was my idea,
my GF says I'm not allowed to select the movies we go see anymore!
