
We all remember five years ago when the story of 33 miners trapped 700
meters underground caught the world by storm. Everyone was asking: Are
they alive? How are they going to make it out of there?. I think
there's no need to say how it ended. Since then we've gotten tons of
news announcing a big budget film about San José's rescue. The thing
everyone's asking right know is: Is it any good? 

First things first: Patricia Riggen. Her direction is absolutely
brilliant, managing to alternate between tense and emotional scenes
almost perfectly. The acting as well is outstanding, with Antonio
Banderas (Mario Sepúlveda) and Rodrigo Santoro (Laurence Golborne)
being the most notable. Also, Cote De Pablo (Jessica Salgado) brings a
big emotional push into the movie with a beautiful interpretation of
"Gracias a la Vida" by Violeta Parra. Juliette Binoche (María Segovia)
was also very good. In general, every actor and actress in this movie
gave a solid performance. The screenplay is very well written, giving
the characters a lot of development and personality. The soundtrack
(Composed by James Horner) is also very good, mixing chilean
instruments with big orchestra compositions that fit the movie
perfectly. The CGI is OK, nothing groundbreaking, but it gets the job
done.

It's not a faultless film though, it has it's flaws. The are times when
the movie loses it's pace and gets slow. Also, the editing, being
mostly very good, it's evident that there where scenes in the movie
that were cut from the final product, an issue that can leave some
viewers confused. There's a little bit of shaky cam as well, not a big
complain, but it can get very disorienting at times.

Overall, even if it's not perfect, it's still a great movie that
succeeds at telling the story of the 33 miners. Hopeful and inspiring,
it's worth watching at least once.

8.4/10
<|_=00=_|>
Mining is a dangerous business. Going deep underground to dig minerals
out of the earth means subjecting yourself to extreme heat,
back-breaking work and the inhalation of dust that can lead to the
pulmonary disease of silicosis. If none of these kill you slowly, the
mine itself can kill you quickly and without warning. Miners die from
accidents caused by their equipment, gas leaks and explosions and, of
course, sudden collapses of the rock surrounding them. All told, this
difficult work kills thousands of miners every year (as many as 12,000
by one count). These facts and statistics are brought to life in the
true story of the 2010 Chilean copper-gold mine collapse portrayed in
the drama "The 33" (PG-13, 2:07).

The film opens with a retirement party for one miner who is about to
complete 45 years of service to the private company that owns and
operates the San José mine near Copiapó, Chile. Several of his
long-time co-workers are at the party with their families. Their is
shift foreman Luis "Don Lucho" Urzúa (Lou Diamond Phillips),
experienced miner and natural leader Mario Sepúlveda (Antonio
Banderas), father-to-be Álex Vega (Mario Casas) and Elvis
Presley-loving miner Edison Peña (Jacob Vargas), among others.

On the morning of August 5, 2010, these men took the long and winding
truck ride three miles into the mine, completely unaware that they were
about to become victims of one of the worst mining disasters in Chile's
history. Luis saw it coming, but the safety concerns that he expressed
to the mine's manager went unheeded. That afternoon, a rock the height
of the Empire State Building and the width of two of them fell into the
mine, trapping 33 men inside. Seeing the devastating cave-in and its
effects on the men and their surroundings, it seems like a miracle that
none of the 33 died in the initial collapse. Although some would say
that the real miracle would be if no one died in mining accidents, or
at least if this collapse had occurred during off-duty hours, rather
than the miners having to get trapped and suffer, while their families
waited in agony for news about the fate of their loved ones.

It was those families who became the impetus for a full-on rescue
attempt. Although Chile's President (Bob Gunton) is reluctant to get
his government involved with an accident at a privately-owned mine, his
new Minister of Mining, Laurence Golborne (Rodrigo Santoro) convinces
President Piñera to let him go to the site and see what he can do. The
families, led by María Segovia (Juliette Binoche), the estranged sister
of trapped miner Darío Segovia (Juan Pablo Raba), had gathered outside
the locked gates of the mining complex. These siblings, wives, mothers,
fathers and friends demanded action, and action they got. In spite of
the prevailing opinion that the miners were probably dead or would die
long before they could be rescued, Minister Golborne brings in
heavy-duty drills and works with renowned mining expert André Sougarret
(Gabriel Byrne) to try and reach the miners before it's too late.
Meanwhile, the miners ration food and try to keep each other's spirits
up, even as several of them fight and suffer from various medical
conditions, as hope fades that they will ever see their families again.

"The 33" is exceptional. Based on the book "Deep Down Dark" by Héctor
Tobar, the film version takes few liberties with the facts and fashions
a very compelling narrative. The screenplay succinctly, but effectively
sets the stage and develops its characters  both above and below
ground. We feel the desperation of both the miners and their families.
As the miners' story unfolds, concurrently with that of their families
and those attempting to rescue them, Patricia Riggens directs with
great pacing (which is helped by nearly perfect editing). She also gets
great performances from her cast and blends the talents and experience
of well-known and little-known actors wonderfully. Although the movie
did drag a little as it neared its dramatic conclusion, this is a film
which tells its story with drama, sensitivity and even some humor and
makes it relatable to anyone who ever came to the aid of someone in
trouble. "A"
<|_=00=_|>
"That's not a rock, that's the heart of the mountain. She finally
broke."

Five years ago the eyes of the entire South American population were
placed on a relatively unknown small mining town in Chile. When the San
Jose mine collapsed in Copiapo, 33 miners were trapped under more than
2000 feet, and the news travelled fast. It isn't uncommon to hear about
these tragic mining accidents, but what stood out here was that the
family members never lost hope and established camp near the site to
force authorities to not give up and continue the rescue efforts. After
two and a half weeks of uncertainty and against all odds, the rescuers
managed to contact the refuge in the mine where all 33 miners reported
to be alive and well. That was just the beginning of a long and
exhaustive rescue effort that would last more than two months, and that
every media channel covered 24 hours a day. The story is recent and we
all saw it take place live on our TV sets, so the real question I had
for Patricia Riggen's film was whether or not she could make this
captivating enough to hold our interest despite the familiarity of the
story. Surprisingly she succeeded. The film is deeply flawed and for
commercial purposes it had an international cast that spoke in English
with a forced Chilean accent. I hate movies that do this (if you want
to tell the story in English then just have the actors speak in plain
English; you're not more convincing because you do it with an accent),
but despite that pet peeve of mine, the film managed to draw me in
emotionally and I found it to be a beautiful and honest tribute. I can
understand those who criticize the movie because it isn't perfect, but
there were several emotional scenes where I literally had goose bumps
all over my arms, and that is always an indicator for me that the movie
is accomplishing its purpose. 

One of the main characters in this film, the miner who kept the group
together under those critical conditions, was Mario Sepulveda (Antonio
Banderas). He never lost hope and promised the rest of his friends that
he would keep them alive. His wife, Escarlette (Naomi Scott), was one
of the supporters who decided to set camp outside the site to force
authorities to continue their rescue efforts. The other main supporter
was Maria Segovia (Juliette Binoche) who refused to believe that her
brother, Dario (Juan Pablo Raba) was dead. Along with other family
members and with the help of the media they put pressure on the
government to save their lives. The Mining Minister, Laurence Golborne
(Rodrigo Santoro), and mining expert, Andre Sougarret (Gabriel Byrne),
were given the difficult task to come up with a plan to rescue these
miners who were buried deep underground. Meanwhile under the heart of
the mountain, Mario was in charge of keeping the group spirit alive and
avoiding they end up driving each other crazy due to the lack of food
and water. He lifted Alex's (Mario Casas) spirit when he was falling
into despair reminding him that his pregnant wife Jessica (Cote de
Pablo) was waiting for him, he also protected the only Bolivian in the
crew, Carlos Mamani (Tenoch Huerta), who was pushed aside by everyone
else for being a foreigner, and he also encouraged Don Lucho (Lou
Diamond Phillips), who felt had failed the team because he knew the
security conditions were bad. Rigged delivers both sides of the story:
the 33 miners struggling to survive from the inside and the family
members and the rescue team fighting to save them from the outside.

I wasn't really into the film during its first thirty minutes because I
was upset the characters were speaking in English with Spanish accents
(to make matters worse there is a scene where a famous Chilean TV star
named Don Francisco shows up and gives a report in Spanish), but midway
into the movie the emotional drama picks up. There is a superb scene in
which the miners are imagining eating their last supper together, and
it was one of the most touching scenes I've seen this year. The visual
effects weren't mesmerizing, but the collapse of the mine is
believable. It takes a while to get used to the dark cinematography
inside the mines where you can't tell most of the characters apart from
each other. I'd say there are only about five miners who you can recall
from the film, the rest are just there and are given no personality
whatsoever. Those are some of my minor complaints for this film, but
other than that the material was handled respectfully and James
Horner's final musical composition helps build the emotional moments.
Another memorable moment was when Cote de Pablo sings a beautiful song,
Gracias a la Vida, while the families are awaiting for any news from
the rescue team. Antonio Banderas delivers a great performance as Mario
and he is one of the reasons why the dramatic moments worked so well.
Despite knowing the story, it was still exciting and emotional to
experience it in this flawed but touching film. There is also a funny
and recurring gag on one of the miners (Oscar Nuñez) who had his wife
and lover waiting for him in the camp. The film might not be entirely
accurate, but it is still a well made film and a decent tribute. 

http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the true story of 33 miners who go into a mine in Chile to
have a big rock get in-between them and the surface, and they have to
survive long enough to be rescued.

I thought the movie was very detailed and complete about what the
miners and their families went through during this ordeal. I never felt
I missed any part of it.

It was never boring, always interesting, which I did not expect, but a
lot went on in those three mouths and it was captured wonderfully on
the screen.

Antonio Banderas was great as Mario, who kept the men together long
enough to survive. 

And even though I knew the outcome, the 33 makes you feel for each
character, which allows suspense.

Well done and heartwarming, hitting on the rights spots and leaving me
all filled up inside.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this at Twin Cities Film Fest this weekend. The 33
chronicled the event that gripped the international community when 33
Chilean miners were buried under 100- year-old gold and copper mine and
trapped for 69 days.

Director Patricia Riggen did a phenomenal job telling a compelling
story of human resilience and the courage of both the miners and their
families above ground who refused to give up. Great ensemble cast
featuring Antonio Banderas, Juliette Binoche, Lou Diamond Philips,
Rodrigo Santoro, and Gabriel Byrne. It was exquisitely shot by Checco
Varese, which was shot on location in two different mines in Bolivia,
Colombia. It certainly looked authentic as the environment of the set
made the actors felt as if they were real miners for a while. The 33
miners were also consulted for the film.

There were moments that might have felt too 'Hollywoodized' but overall
the film didn't feel emotionally manipulated. The genuinely stirring
score came from the late James Horner, which the film paid tribute in
the end. It's not a perfect film but I think the film was respectful to
the subject matter and did the story and those miners justice.

 read more new releases reviews on FlixChatter.net
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. How do you structure a film based on
a true story that lasted 69 days, occurred 5 years ago, and was
followed live on TV by half of the global population? Director Patricia
Riggen (Girl in Progress, 2012) delivers a film designed to tug on
heartstrings, and is based on the book "Deep Down Dark" from Hector
Tobar, as well as interviews with the key players.

In 2010, the San Jose copper/gold mine collapsed trapping 33 miners
more than 2300 feet under tons of rubble and an unstable rock that
dwarfed the Empire State Building. Through some pretty solid special
effects, we are there for the collapse. It's this segment and the
immediate reactions from the miners that provide the film's best
segment. We feel the miner's sense of panic and doom as they begin to
come to grips with their plight.

The film rotates between three struggles: the isolation of the miners
struggling to survive, the tent city populated by their families
struggling to maintain hope, and the Chilean government struggling with
the politics and public relations of a rescue mission. From a character
standpoint, each of these three segments is given a face. Antonio
Banderas as Mario becomes the focal point of the miners. He searches
for an escape route, takes charge of the (very limited) food rations,
and acts as referee and light of hope in an extremely volatile
situation. Juliette Binoche (yes the French actress) is Maria, the
sister of one of the trapped miners and the most assertive of those
pushing the government to attempt a rescue. Rodrigo Santoro plays
Laurence Goldborne, Chile's Minister of Mining, and the one who pushes
the government to move forward with the costly rescue mission.

Other key characters include Bob Gunton as Chile's President Pinera,
Lou Diamond Phillips as "Don Lucho", the safety inspector, Gabriel
Byrne as the chief engineer, James Brolin as Jeff Hart (leading the
U.S. drilling team), Naomi Scott as Mario's wife, and three of the
other miners: Oscar Nunez, Mario Casas, and Juan Pablo Raba.

The most bizarre segment comes courtesy of miner hallucinations. It's a
fantasy-infused Last Supper sequence that plays out to the sounds of a
Bellini opera, while the food and drink flow and the family members
join in the joy. It's not difficult to imagine the brain taking these
poor gentlemen to such places of mental torture.

As if the approach is to make the most viewer-friendly buried miner
film possible, we aren't witness to much underground conflict, and the
internal bickering within the Chilean government officials is kept to a
minimum. We do get to see the media circus that occurred during the
ordeal  of course, most of us witnessed it in real time.

Director Riggen has delivered a film that taps into the multitude of
emotions for the different groups of people, rather than concentrating
on the miserable situation of the miners. It's a challenge to keep us
interested in a true story of which we all know the ending, but most
viewers will stay engaged with the characters. It should also be noted
that the minimalistic score is some of the last work from the late,
great James Horner.
<|_=00=_|>
For sixty-nine days in the summer and autumn of 2010, the world was
transfixed by a human-interest story like few others in history. It
involved the plight of thirty-three mineworkers trapped inside an
unstable mountain mine in the Atacama Desert in the southern part of
Chile. During what appeared to be a routine mining operation some two
thousand feet below the desert surface on August 5, 2010, the mountain
started shifting very violently, trapping these workers in a shelter,
blocked by a mass of rock twice the size of New York's Empire State
Building. With three days worth of rations, the miners managed to
survive an extra two weeks before massive drills managed to reach them
with additional supplies. But during that time, it was necessary to
engage in a very careful rescue operation that took an additional seven
and a half weeks; and it involved a great deal of risk. Utilizing a
Phoenix rescue capsule designed in the U.S., the multi-national rescue
operation resulted in all thirty-three men coming out of there alive on
October 13th, some in very bad shape, but all in one piece, physically
anyway. This is the story told in the 2015 movie THE 33.

Well directed by Patricia Riggen, a Mexican-born female director whose
credits include 2007's UNDER THE SAME MOON, THE 33 stars Antonio
Banderas and Lou Diamond Phillips as the principal leaders of the
miners who find themselves trapped in that mountain, literally between
a rock and a hard place, and a Chilean mining company and government
that seem unwilling to believe that any of them are alive. The
claustrophobic nature of the saga is very well depicted by Riggen, and
give the added gravitas by the largely Latin American cast that portray
the miners, including Banderas and Phillips. A fair amount of this film
was made on location not far from the actual mine itself, in Copiapo,
Chile; and the remoteness is photographed with the utmost stark reality
imaginable. Riggen also depicts the kind of international media
attention that the story got, and how the families and wives of the
miners, including Juliette Binoche, who portrays the wife of miner
Dario Segovia, played in the film by Juan Pablo Rada, angrily pressed
the case for the Chilean government to do more, even to the point of
asking for help from outside sources, including an American mining and
drilling expert portrayed by James Brolin. Gabriel Byrne and Rodrigo
Santoro portray the government officials charged with finding a way of
drilling down to the miners without making the mountain even more
unstable than it already is, and thus guaranteeing a cave-in that would
make rescue impossible.

While it may be easy to portray the Chilean mine disaster depicted in
THE 33 as an example of corporate malfeasance that had nearly fatal
results, that socio-political aspect is not really discussed in the
film, although when the end credits (featuring the real life miners)
roll, the end title card indicates that the mining company never
compensated the miners for their nearly ten weeks of psychological and
spiritual horror (in essence, they got the Shaft, so to speak). The
film, however, does go to great lengths to depict the aforementioned
psychological and spiritual horror they went through, including a
subtle hint that, unless food was sent down to them, they might resort
to cannibalism if any of them died off in that hellhole, where
temperatures reached 100 degrees Fahrenheit the entire time. Even
without this hint, though, the film that THE 33 most closely resembles
is 1993's ALIVE, which depicted the survivors of the 1972 Andean plane
crash whose survival did partially depend on cannibalism; it also
resembles the equally compelling true-life 1995 space saga APOLLO 13.
Another aspect well depicted is how transfixed the international media,
including every news outlet in the United States, covered this story in
a way that, given how tabloid-focused it had become by then, was
largely tasteful, though also suitably dramatic.

The whole enterprise is topped off by an appropriate, somber, and
Andean-flavored score by James Horner, which turned out to be one of
the last film scores he worked on before he perished in a plane crash
in Ventura County, California on June 22, 2015. Despite the fairly
leisurely pace (some would, mistakenly in my opinion, call it slow),
THE 33, like ALIVE and APOLLO 13, is done in the right way, avoiding
spectacle most of the time, using CGI only when necessary, and steering
clear of sensationalism. As such, it will likely count as one of the
best movies of 2015.
<|_=00=_|>
I understand there are limits and parameters to telling a story such as
this -- one we all remember. 

But why would the producers/writers not include the heroics of the
paramedics and navy seals who *went down first* to secure the 33's
health. 

That is a story onto itself. 

And they're completely left out? 

I enjoyed the film until that part at the end, asking myself, WTF? A
complete omission and slap in the face of men who put themselves in
harm's way. 

It doesn't make sense not to include a couple of minutes of their work
in the film.
<|_=00=_|>
With its empowering story, visuals and acting, this film brings another
true survival story to life. A group of thirty three gold miners go to
work in the underlying mountains of Chile when their lives quickly turn
upside down. Stranded by the collapse of the rocks, the men are forced
to work together, struggle for food, stay optimistic despite their life
threatening condition. With every second so crucial, the intensity of
the film leaves the audience on the edge of their seats.

Watching this film made me feel the pain of the miners, the anxiety of
the families and the stress of the rescue team. I could personally feel
the struggle from every side of the story. This is an amazing aspect of
the film, especially because it is based on a true story. What better
way to gain awareness than to make individuals feel the experience for
themselves. I felt like throwing up throughout the whole movie and that
just shows how amazingly the filmmakers depicted this horrifyingly true
story of the innocent men who were stranded and their struggle to
survive. 

The filmmakers have created a film that makes the audience feel as
though they are experiencing the struggle rather than just watching it.
I felt as if I was starving and becoming dehydrated just by watching.
It's what makes the movie feel so real. 

The persuasive acting contributes to the empowering movie, especially
Antonio Banderas whose performance as the leader, Mario was so
believable. It's a role completely different from what he usually plays
and he made me believe he was a Chilean miner. Usually films based on
tragic events feel depressing but this film feels empowering and
comedic in certain scenes. I enjoyed that. 

The film didn't make the best impression at first but, it became very
engaging and strong towards the end. I give a lot of credit to its
great ending because, in my opinion, an ending can really make or break
a movie. 

I give the movie four out of five stars and recommend it for people
between the ages of 13 and 18. Adults will enjoy it as well. 

Reviewed by Harmony M., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic, age 16
<|_=00=_|>
"That's not a rock. That's the heart of the mountain. She finally
broke." August 5, 2010 started out like any other day. Mario (Banderas)
and 32 other miners headed down in a mountain looking for gold. While
they are underground the unthinkable happens. Now, with only enough
food and water for 30 people for 3 days the 33 trapped miners must ban
together and fight in order to survive long enough to be rescued. This
is a difficult movie to make emotional. The subject matter lends itself
to it, but this only happened 6 years ago and most people remember the
events and the outcome. The fact that most people know how this will
turn out is a hard thing to overcome. This movie did that and more. The
movie was tense, emotional and really sucks you in. You are on the edge
of your seat almost the entire time and you actually forget you know
how it will turn out. That is a tremendous thing for a movie to pull
off. This is a great movie for all ages and I recommend this. The movie
fills you with hope and shows what humans can do when their backs are
against the wall. Overall, one of the best movies of the year. I highly
recommend this. I give this an A-.
