
First off, I must say I am not a Terrence Malick hater. On the
contrary: I used to worship the man. I even took an entire course in
film school dedicated to him, Orson Welles, and Stanley Kubrick. I
think the 5 films Malick did in the first 38 years of his career
("Badlands," "Days of Heaven," "The Thin Red Line," "The New World,"
and "The Tree of Life") are all masterpieces. I even liked "To the
Wonder," which was almost universally panned, even though it was
clearly not in the same league as his previous films. After the
acclaimed "The Tree of Life," Malick (now 73 years old) has been
working on several projects in different stages of production. He
filmed "Song to Song" immediately after "Knight of Cups" (released last
year) back in 2012, and it's only being released now, as a 129-minute
film, after almost five years of post-production and at least 8 editors
to turn it into something remotely coherent (reportedly, the first cut
was 8 hours long). Unfortunately, like "Knight of Cups," "Song to Song"
feels like a parody of Malick's work: the extensive, mumbling
voice-over narration by all the main characters (taken to the extreme),
the stunning imagery of nature and high-end real estate, and gorgeous
people literally walking in circles and acting cute (or mean) to one
another. The very thin plot revolves, as you heard, around two
intersecting love triangles set against the music scene in Austin,
Texas. But music doesn't play a great part in this story, and it
certainly could have elevated it.

As abstract as Malick's earlier films could be, they all had tangible,
rich, philosophical and often universal themes. "Knight of Cups" and
"Song to Song" are pure cinematic masturbation. Malick's trick is
getting some of the biggest (and best-looking) film stars in the world,
and his main actors (Rooney Mara, Ryan Gosling, Michael Fassbender,
Natalie Portman) have faces that one can easily watch for hours. But
not even these great stars can masquerade the emptiness of the film.
Mara has the most screen time of them all, being the only true leading
character here, while Cate Blanchett, Holly Hunter, Val Kilmer, and
Berenice Marlohe are reduced to cameos. There's at least one painfully
genuine moment, near the end, featuring Hunter's character, but it only
lasts a few seconds; Malick's gaze isn't interested in her emotions.
He'd rather show us, for the umpteenth time, Mara and Fassbender being
flirty and sexy instead. 

I am all about experimental cinema, but when you realize that this is
the deepest sort of "experimental" project that Hollywood can put out
(made by a revered auteur that movie stars almost pay to work with),
you feel even more nostalgic for the daring collaborations between
Tilda Swinton and the late Derek Jarman. I know people who deemed
"Knight of Cups" a "masterpiece" and will probably say the same about
"Song to Song." I try to be respectful of other people's opinions, but
I really don't think we're seeing this film through the same lens. I
still admire and respect Malick; I just liked his work more when he had
something to say. Right now, I see him as someone who can afford to
make gorgeous-looking home movies just for his pleasure, but he's a
much more interesting artist when he expands his canvas into something
we can truly care about.
<|_=00=_|>
The first movie I have walked out of in as long as I can remember is
still on the screen at Austin's Arbor Theater but I am sipping a beer
and wondering if I will ever pay to see a Terence Malick film again. As
utterly bored as I have been in a theater since Tree of Life (which
SHONE in comparison), I gave up waiting for something to happen to wrap
this turkey up or make me care. News Flash: it had not appeared on
screen at 2 hours in.

I want those 2 hours back.

Malick's latest "Song To Song"? Beautifully-lensed images of characters
I know little about and care even less about looking mostly beautiful
and doing stuff I don't care about or understand. Any Calvin Klein
"Obsession" advert from the 80s had more substance, a more compelling
story line and infinitely more ability to hold my interest. This was
like a cinematic Austin Architectural Digest showcase of homes, but
less interesting. Oh. It was about "struggling musicians"? Malick's
definition of "struggling" is as far from reality as Gigli is from
good.

The Patti Smith cameo and song snippets in a soundtrack (seemingly
created by 20 or 30 misguided people who did not know each other and
apparently had not seen the film) were my sole high points. They were
enough to make me go all the way to 2 stars, but minus one because I
looked at my watch about 8 times waiting for it to end. It may STILL be
running and I am halfway through a beer down the road.

Can we chip in to buy Malick a screenwriter, and an editor? Emperor
Malick is buck naked folks. Maybe a Kickstarter campaign? SKIP IT.
<|_=00=_|>
"Song to Song" (2017 release; 129 min.) brings the story of Faye. As
the movie opens, we hear Faye announce in voice over "I went through a
period where sex had to be violent", and with that we are off. Fay
seems to have a relationship with both BV (a budding musician) and Cook
(a record executive). We see them at various Austin landmarks and
outdoor shows (ACL Music Festival, I assume). At this point we are
about 10-15 min. into the movie, you'll just have to see for yourself
how it all plays out.

Couple of comments: this is the latest movie from writer-director
Terrence Malick, Here he follows a path that s very similar of his
previous film "Knight of Cups": essentially an abstract film about
relationships, with not much dialogue but plenty of voice-over thoughts
("Any experience is better than no experience" and "I went along like
someone in a dream", just to give you a glimpse). This movie was
actually shot in 2011-12, and is only now seeing the light of day.
Rumor has it that Malick had 8 hours of film which he had to cut down
to this final version, just over 2 hrs., and when you are watching it,
it does feel like we skip from scene to scene without any sense or
purpose. As for the lead actors (Rooney Mara as Faye, Ryan Gosling as
BV, Michael Fassbender as Cook; Natalie Portman appears about a half
hour into the movie for some scenes; yet later Cate Blanchett, as a
fling of BV, makes her entrance), it feels like most of what they are
doing seems improvised. Not much of it makes sense or is coherent in
any way, shape or form. Tons of cameos from the music world (RHCP, Iggy
Pop, Patti Smith, Johnny Lydon, etc., mostly in a blink and you'll miss
it moment). As a long-time fan and admirer of Terrence Malick, it pains
me to tell you that, on the heels of the so-so Knight of Cups, this is
even worse. Given the all-star ensemble cast, what a colossal waste of
talent all around! 

"Song to Song" opened this weekend at my local art-house theater here
in Cincinnati, and given who all was involved in this production, I
couldn't wait to see it. The Saturday matin√©e screening where I saw
this at was attended okay but not great. "Song to Song" is not a movie
that I can recommend to anyone, although there may be some curiosity
about this film, given the all-star cast attached to it. Viewer beware!
(*UPDATE* The movie sank like a stone at the box office, and
disappeared after just one week from the theater here in Cincinnati.)
<|_=00=_|>
My God I am all here for a great experimental, artistic movie, but this
was just boring. Despite all the great cinematography, the message from
this movie could be told in 30 minutes and was explored so much better
in another 100 movies. The scene with Holly Hunter in the parking lot
was the best one, but it only lasted a few seconds. Besides that, it
was just an accumulation of beautiful faces flerting together (good
acting nonetheless). And where was the music? The music could have
saved the movie. Filming the film at a festival and putting on some old
music legends doesn't do the job.
<|_=00=_|>
I always go to a Terrence Malick movie hoping to find once again
something akin to the transcendent vision firmly grounded in the real
world that I encountered when I first saw "Days of Heaven" (1978), a
movie that combined gorgeous cinematography with a compelling plot. My
hopes were dashed yet again with "Song to Song." The visual beauty is
here, but the movie feels bloated, self-indulgent, and disconnected.
Malick's technique of splicing together seemingly random footage
overlaid with barely audible interior monologue has by now become
formulaic, and he seems incapable, unwilling, or afraid to deliver a
sustained scene in which characters actually exchange meaningful
dialogue. And speaking of characters, one after another is introduced
for no apparent reason, as if quantity could make up for the fact that
none of them are developed, and their utter shallowness foreshortens
any depths the movie might be trying to plumb. Finally, the movie went
on so long that I left feeling too exasperated and exhausted to hold on
to the shreds of visual beauty that it offered.
<|_=00=_|>
It is so beautifully thought film, that it almost seems like an
improvisation. Very deep, captivating and honest film leading me to the
only question while i was watching it: How old is Malick? I mean,
inside? He may be 70 years old, but his films speak about universal
feelings. "Song to song" is not a conventional film with a conventional
story. It's more of a sad and confessional experience, more of a
feeling, an emotion long kept inside, finally made into a form of art. 

It's a film about the characters and their constant battle with
themselves. The things we don't see, the hell that goes through one's
mind, when one is suffering. They are struggling to get better, but
it's so sad because we know they won't. They can't get out. It's about
the spiritual journey of the characters and not so much about the
story. It only goes where the character goes emotionally. Malick
doesn't care about the world around the characters or the society. The
only worlds "well build" in the film are the character's worlds. That's
why the V.O doesn't seem like a technical intervention. It is the core
of this beautiful, nostalgic and emotional poem to the ones who are
"destined" to suffer. 

Maybe we don't see all of this, cause this is not a modern film and our
society doesn't deal with emotions anymore. But i don't thing Malick
cares for any of this. He literally makes a film for himself, to try to
free himself from his feelings and put it into something useful and
creative.

The point is, it's not a film to be liked or disliked, cause we, the
people can't wait to judge something, and not to try to understand it
first. You may just not connect to it. That's it. It's not a memorable
film and it won't be, cause after people saw "The tree of life", now
they get bored with his concept of filmmaking, seeing all of his films
like a sequel to it. I found it as more of a pattern that he found to
be able to express himself constantly, by really focusing on his
emotions and very honestly and artistically opening his soul to the
audience to see it. And why not and judge it. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
"The world wants to be deceived." Cook (Michael Fassbender) 

Terence Malick's current cast of romantics are lost in themselves,
searching how they can find fulfillment, largely through troubled
relationships that on the surface look ethereal. Of course, that
heavenly view happens because Malick's point of view is through his
lens, which, with the help of his usual cinematographer, Emmanuel
Lubezki, is other-worldly gorgeous and impressionistic.

Although Malick has taken inspiration from trees and landscapes in many
other films, here he takes pleasure in the angles of modern Austin
architecture with its glass-dominated homes and their infinity pools.
All the better for the heroes Faye (Rooney Mara) and BV (Ryan Gosling)
to be constantly thinking of themselves as the center of the universe
and those outside the glass a part of the menagerie to be neglected.

The fly in the ointment of love is producer Cook, who is after Faye and
succeeding without BV knowing it. The eternal triangle seems to
flourish for much of the film because Malick not only sees like a
painter with just images to contend with, but he also concentrates more
on the physical properties of his characters and their stories and less
on the corrosive result of promiscuity.

The glue to the multiple images is the soundtrack, about as eclectic as
you'll ever hear and changing with most sequences. The songs evoke mood
and meaning as well as the remembered past, Reinforcing the dominance
of music are cameos from the likes of Iggy Pop, Tegan and Sara, Anthony
Kiedis, and Lykke.

Music and memory are the stuff of Song to Song. Along with Malick's
incomparable images, you'll be fully immersed in the impressions of
people caught in the act of using love to give meaning to life. Just
don't expect a tour of the Austin music scene. It's all about
impressions, Baby.
<|_=00=_|>
The good: Views of Austin, Texas and the Enchanted Rock (but I'm a
Texan.) Acting by cast, especially Rooney, Hunter and Gosling.

The bad: No story line to speak of and not a fan of the CONSTANT
cutting away from scene to scene. If you are going to have this many
people getting ready to have sex, for god's sake, show us a little of
the action! If you were a actress in this mess, you got to show off
your bellybutton, which was so often, it got to be funny.

This movie should have been edited down by an hour and it would have
been so much better.

Skip it and save your bucks for something better!
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a movie. It's another Knight of Cups, which was total crap
as well. It's a narrated story of nothing. Nothing happens in this
movie, there's no story arc, no plot, no character development. You
will not experience any emotions during this film. You will not have
any thoughts about this thing either, besides, "Why did I watch this
movie about nothing" Lots of pretty girls in it, so if that means
anything to you just trying to be seen....
<|_=00=_|>
I'll start with the pros: It's a visually pleasing film. It does a nice
job of showing some of the beauty of Austin and the area around it.
There are a lot of talented and attractive people in the movie.

But it's a total failure. Despite the non-stop narration, it's still a
confusing mess of a film. There's zero emotional attachment to any of
the characters. They just kind of float through the film without any
purpose. There's no story, no tension, no emotion, and no reason to
care about what any of these characters do.

** SPOILER** Even when one of the supporting characters kills herself,
what you would imagine would be a large moment in a film where nothing
really happens, it's handled matter-of-factly in less than a minute of
screen time.

If Malick is trying to say anything in this film, it's that he's rich,
pampered, and bored out of his mind.
