
The Pacific theater of the second world war is often characterized by a
number of such decisive battle fields as Guadalcanal, Iwo Jima, and
Okinawa. The Railway Man is a reminder of the madness of war that
reached beyond those well-known battle fields and the profound effects
it had on individuals who fought in the Southeast Asia region.

Colin Firth embodies the suffering of Eric Lomax, a veteran who still
experiences post-traumatic nightmares decades after the war. Nicole
Kidman plays his wife Patti with utmost grace and compassion, and
Stellan Skarsg√•rd's portrayal is nothing short of perfection as he
plays the fellow veteran who is also torn by his friend's immeasurable
pain. Rounding out the strong performances is Hiroyuki Sanada's Nagase,
a former translator of the Imperial Japanese Army who took considerable
part in Eric's torture.

While the flashback scenes led by younger actors (Jeremy Irvine and
Tanroh Ishida) could use some improvements, the current post-war scenes
are recreated to near perfection with mature performances from the more
experienced cast members. It is also noteworthy that the film does not
hesitate for a moment to refute the wrong notion associated with
"tragedy of war," a term often misused to make a war sound as if it
were a mere chance event and not a product of malice. The film makes it
clear the pain inflicted upon Eric Lomax is nothing but an act of
crime, and from that accord comes an unusual relationship between two
former enemies that only a film based on a true account can deliver.
<|_=00=_|>
Words cannot do this film justice. There are no words to describe how
amazing the true story of Eric Lomax really was, and I do not want to
give away the entire story here. But suffice to say that I was fully
engrossed in the film throughout its entirety. From the moment we see
Eric and Patty meet to the emotional ending,I could not bring myself to
look away or even to reach down for my drink in the cinema. Be prepared
for some harrowing and intense scenes. But bear in mind that these are
required for us to understand completely the dilemma faced by Eric at
the end of his story. The actors portray their characters beautifully,
with so much angst and emotion that I found myself empathising with
them all the way through. If you are interested whatsoever in stories
of war, survival, trauma, revenge, forgiveness and the ethical dilemmas
wrapped up in them all, then this is a film you should definitely see.
Tears rolled down my face as the credits rolled, and I found myself
thinking about the movie long after watching it. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Last week I saw American HUSTLE and couldn't understand why the critics
have so raved about it. Yesterday I saw THE RAILWAY MAN and can't
understand why the critics have been so dismissive. It's a tense story
about one of the great horrors of World War Two. Based on a true story,
it's also a tale of love and redemption, two of the cinema's (and
literature's) greatest themes. And it serves up a vivid reminder that
the Japanese of the 1940s were, like the Nazis, from a different
generation, almost from a different race. 

David Lean's BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI casts a huge shadow over this
movie. THE RAILWAY MAN lacks the "majesty" of Lean's famous epic, but I
suspect that Alex Guinness's performance would seem very theatrical by
the standards of screen acting today. If anything, Colin Firth gives a
slightly under-powered performance (and Nicole Kidman's part gives her
too little to work with), but Jeremy Irvine is intensely believable as
the wartime Lomax, geeky and quietly heroic. The horrors of the forced
labour that built the railway and the relentless brutality of the
Japanese soldiers are both vividly conveyed, and the ending manages to
be poignant without trespassing into mawkishness.

This is a strange movie, grim but highly watchable. Arguably, it could
have been tougher, more savage, but then it might be harder to sit
through.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this as a test screening some time ago but wasn't allowed to post
until it was released, consequently I've not seen the finished film but
the test version affected me quite a bit. Based on a true story - Eric
Lomax (Firth) - was building the Thai/Burma railway WWII as a POW. The
conditions were horrific, treatment atrocious and Lomax clearly
suffered PTSD, although it wasn't diagnosed yet - the film was set in
the 70s. In an attempt to lay ghosts of his past to rest he travels
back to revisit the sites of his incarceration and comes face to face
with a Japanese officer from that time who was central to his torture.

It's a grey, period-style, sombre film, there's little in the way of
humour and the only colour at the beginning is Nicole Kidman's (more or
less extraneous) role as the "love interest." Her role was apparently
meant to be played by Rachel Weisz and I think that would have been a
better choice, and it bugs me that Kidman is first listing on the
credits when Lomax' role is the titular role, and it's HIS book that
the film is based on. However, the synopsis puts emphasis on her
standing by her man and seeing him through his adversity and she does,
and is good in the role she is given, and in that she was well chosen
played down in her looks to given some small-town glamour.

It's a slow pace and if you like bells and whistles and CGI rather than
real life and emotions then don't bother with this... it's a gripping,
sad, heartbreaking and heartwarming tale or triumph over adversity,
courage and strength of spirit with an ending that if you don't have a
tear in your eye then you are dead inside.

Colin Firth, I think, is well cast and plays stayed, rather eccentric
and dull due to his brokenness extremely well. He is fascinated by
railways and trains (which is surprising) since his experiences and we
meet his love interest on a train. His emotions turn erratically and he
suffered terrifying nightmares, working through the pain/suffering of
his character with a quiet studied grace. The star turn in my
opinion... and all at the test screening agreed... is Hiroyuki Sanada
who played Lomax' nemesis as an adult. He had a very challenging role
and was superb. He played his role with so much calm that you could
believe his conversion experience and he made the tale come alive and
be very believable. Nothing he did was superfluous and even the tiniest
nuances of his actions were obviously deliberate and perfect, his
facial expressions were... oh enough to make me weep in places. I'd
like to see him get applauded for it - and will look out for him in
other films (eg 47 Ronin). Stellan Skarsgard (always excellent) was
good in the role he played but at the test screening we all questioned
why someone without a heavy English accent was cast for the role of an
English soldier in his middle age when in his young scenes the actor
who played Finlay was quintessentially British with no explanation as
to why he is suddenly Swedish, "After the war he went to Sweden and has
lived there" would have done - maybe they've done that now. His
character too was a tragedy, also not coping at all with life after
war.

The young actors playing the tough scenes in Japan building the railway
had the hardest roles and Jeremy Irvine and Sam Reid did their older
selves proud in some quite harrowing scenes, and oftentimes they really
did look emaciated, thin and on their last legs. The film pulls no
punches but does leave the terrible experience that Lomax suffered as a
cliff-hanger to the last.

A powerful film, not for the feint or lighthearted, I fear, but
certainly if you are interested in history, and enjoy good performance
led character pieces you will find this an excellent cinema-going
experience. I do recommend taking something to dry your eyes with and
stay to the end to learn about Lomax and Nagase - the real people. The
truth in the story adds so much more to the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this film at its world premiere at the Toronto International Film
Festival. Teplitzky's film is primarily an attempt at an exploration of
the male psyche of men of the WWII generation, as they cope with PTSD,
told through a true life story about torture, war crimes, loss, honour,
and forgiveness. The protagonist, brilliantly portrayed by Colin Firth,
is set apart as an unusual archetype right from the beginning of the
movie, practically specifying that he is almost certain to cope with
his condition and the circumstances that unroll as the plot thickens in
an exceptional, but not necessarily an unexpected way. A story with any
different ending is unlikely to be told this way, but the ending brings
a pleasant surprise of greater magnitude than one would expect from a
true story. The concepts of honour and valour lurk throughout the film,
and the movie reaches its climax beautifully when the irony about
honour is finally exposed in what was nothing short of a heartfelt and
memorable admission of wrongdoing. This story is likely to resonate
well with anyone, from any generation and cultural background.
<|_=00=_|>
I read the short storyline of the film before viewing and it had
intrigued me. I came into it with an open mind - at first romance and
then the inescapable drama. The acting by Firth was amazing. I was
mesmerized. It may be slow (to some of a lesser attention span) at
first, but eased into a psychological drama that holds on tight and
will not release until the finale. Spectacular cinematography, the
scenes are beautiful and real. It is a wake up call to those who have
not/do not understand the great span of WWII - brings much needed
insight into the history of this particular banker's war. Ultimately,
this film beautifully portrays the ultimate power of forgiveness. Which
brought tears to my eyes, in the panic and hysteria that the world now
feels due to war and terror, it is good to know that there is some
shred of humanity that exists and has hope to exist in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
This is arguably one of the best WW2 films I have ever seen. There
aren't many films that tell the story of the situation outside of
Europe and this tells it brilliantly. Collin Firth portrays the
emotional struggle of a man plagued by the war extremely well, and I
was gripped from start to finish. I've been to Thailand and this was
possibly why I was so affected by the film, but I thought it was
extremely touching and thought provoking. The story affected me to the
point of tears (as no other film has ever done). There is so much depth
and beauty to the film and characters and I think it's a shame it
hasn't been rated higher.
<|_=00=_|>
Had the opportunity to see this at its world premiere in Toronto
tonight, where we were joined not only by the stars, but also by Patti
Lomax, the wife of the real-life Eric Lomax, on whose autobiography
this film was based. 

The story is unique and interesting, and is told with a series of
flashbacks to Eric Lomax, our protagonist's (Firth), experiences of
WW2. As the film is set in fairly dreary locations (prison camps and
drab apartments), it's not the most visually exciting thing to watch,
and the edit/pacing leaves a bit to be desired - at several points, we
find the present-day Eric Lomax (Firth) suddenly transported back to
his POW camp in Asia without anything to clue us off as to whether he
travelled there (a single plane shot would've done it) or, as in at
least one case, is hallucinating. 

Still, a good story and well acted by Firth with support from Nicole
Kidman as his wife - although the real show-stealers are Jeremy Irvine
as young Lomax, and Hiroyuki Sanada as Nagase, the Japanese translator
and Lomax's tormentor.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Railway Man" is a sober restrained film for much of its running
time. Its low key approach makes the torture scenes and the depictions
of Eric Lomax's searing post-war nightmares all the more horrifying and
unforgettable. The acting is uniformly excellent. The direction and all
the technical contributions are admirable. I normally never consciously
notice the sound design, but here it contributes intelligently and
gently to several episodes. I was particularly fascinated to see Eric
and the other signals staff emerging into the sunlight from the
underground "Battle Box" headquarters in Fort Canning Park, Singapore.
I toured it in 2007; it is now a museum peopled by realistic waxworks
of the soldiers, senior and junior, who were there on surrender day,
15th February 1942.

Yet the film has several irritating shortcomings. The title character,
Eric, was 61 at the time of the scenes set in 1980. Good as he is,
Colin Firth is visibly too young. Perhaps it shouldn't matter, given
the power of his performance, but it gets in the way if you try to make
sense of the time lapses.

The very down to earth portrayal of Eric's lonely life is immensely
touching, as in the scene where his new love Patti wants to scrub clean
the cooking pot in his grubby bachelor kitchen. But such practical
matter of fact detail inevitably invites down to earth speculation such
as "Where does the characters' money come from?" This tiresome little
problem hardly matters in more fantastical Hollywood sagas where
everyone is filthy rich or in possession of superpowers. Eric is shown
to drive a Triumph 2000, a car typically owned by the affluent middle
classes of that time. (I have not seen one for years. The Triumph
marque disappeared long ago along with much of the British car
industry. The equivalent British middle classes now drive BMWs,
Mercedes and Audis). This fine car and his neglected house are the only
signs that he had a successful and productive working life between 1945
and 1980.

His tormented friend at the veterans club notes how the survivors of
the 1940s horrors are now bank clerks, teachers, engineers, retired
people; honest productive citizens, whose unsung post war endurance is
as admirable as their war time survival. (One of my teachers around
1969 had been a Prisoner of War at Changi Prison in Singapore, but you
would never have heard it from him.) Presumably many of these gentle
heroes were married, as was Eric. But his failed post-war marriage and
two children are unmentioned in the movie. As are Patti's three
children. Somehow, despite a failed marriage, she has the cash to tour
Britain. The fact that she had been married is barely hinted at (she
describes herself as single again). The fact that the real Patti lived
in Canada for many years is unmentioned.

Even a passing mention of the characters' histories could have
considerably enriched the film. As it stands, it feels as if they were
dropped into the story from Mars.

In his book "Hollywood vs America", the critic Michael Medved noted the
inviolable barrier between Church and Studio in most Hollywood films.
The same deep rooted reluctance to mention spiritual matters, even when
they are relevant to the characters, is very evident in this film. The
only sign of the prisoners' religious leanings in this real Valley of
the Shadow of Death is the recitation of a Psalm in one scene. Eric's
deep Christian faith helped him through the nightmare and perhaps lead
to his forgiveness of his tormentor decades later. He carried a Bible
for decades during and after his imprisonment until it was utterly
worn.

You can get the background story from the book. For the price of a
cinema ticket, it is much better value for money. You get at least a
limited sense of the vanished Britain of the 1920s and 1930s when Eric
grew up. The lovingly described details of the social and industrial
environment that formed him make sense of how this man came to be a
survivor. A new preface in the movie tie-in edition describes how Eric
did not want to see the finished film; he died before it was released.
If he had seen it, he might have pointed out, in the most polite
manner, how much of the really important story had been left out.
<|_=00=_|>
A superb film - it is a slow and thoughtful. I thought it superior to
"!2 Years A Slave". It is a deeply moving commentary on the atrocities
inflicted upon allied prisoners of war by the Japanese during World War
2, and in particular upon one individual young British officer. The
film shows how he continued to suffer from the horrors of this
experience throughout his life until, when he finds out (in the 1980s)
that the Japanese Kempeitai (effectively the Japanese Gestapo) officer
who he holds responsible for his torture is still alive, he ultimately
confronts him. Remarkably he becomes reconciled with him: "I can never
forget, but I can forgive." A slow burner but with impeccable attention
to detail and superb performances, the film is an absolute triumph
showing as it does man's capacity to rise above unspeakable horrors
inflicted. I was in tears at the end. I recommended it to my teen (13)
daughter who will be travelling to Japan next year. 

I haven't read the book - but I am inclined to purchase it as a result
of seeing the film. In answer to comments by reviewers on Colin Firth's
age - he was 53 when he made the film (born 1960 - film made 2013). The
film opens in 1980 so Firth would have been playing someone 3-5 years
older than him, which he does with aplomb. Firth's age is a non-issue
for the purposes of this movie. Great performances by all the cast.
