
Among Hollywood's recent output of mediocre (and in some cases:
downright abysmal) remakes of Sci-Fi classics, 'Rise of the Planet of
the Apes' was the rare movie which stood out, for it had as much of a
brain as it had a heart  plus an original approach to the well-known
material and great visuals. Having said that, 'Rise' practically pales
in comparison to Matt Reeves' sequel: the upcoming 'Dawn of the Planet
of the Apes' is as close to a Science-Fiction masterpiece as a 170
million PG-13 Hollywood summer blockbuster can possibly get.

The storyline picks up ten years after we saw Ceasar and his fellow
simian escapees seek refuge in the woods near San Francisco, and
although the film's trailers already gave away pretty much everything
that happened during that time (and alas, way too much of what will
happen), I'm not going to spoil anything for those who carefully
avoided watching said trailers. As with all my reviews, instead of
giving away any details about the story, I'll elaborate on all other
aspects of the movie.

What needs to be mentioned first is what an astonishing achievement
'Dawn' is when it comes to the use of CGI. I'm normally very critical
towards the (over-)use of CGI  but the level of craftsmanship
displayed here simply has to be admired. It only took me seconds to
forget I was watching digital characters (brought to life through the
outstanding motion-capture performances by Andy Serkis, Toby Kebbell
and Judy Grier  to name but a few), and I can't begin to imagine what
a task it must have been for the artists and wizards in the animation
department to work on every background and every tiny little detail of
every character until this level of seamlessness and reality could be
achieved.

But nearly every other aspect of the movie has been realized equally
well: Michael Giacchino's haunting musical score fits and reflects the
drama on screen perfectly, while the  often terrifying  beauty of the
images on screen had me immediately wondering who the DoP was (now I
know: Michael Seresin, the genius veteran DoP of such classics as
'Midnight Express' and 'Angel Heart'). When it comes to the action;
well, 'Dawn' is not your usual summer blockbuster. This is no
light-hearted, comic-book-style fantasy film with fun, over-the-top
action scenes. What we have here is a gritty, realistic portrayal of a
slowly escalating conflict, and when we do get to the battle scenes in
the third act, those scenes are a spectacular, mesmerizing visual feast
(and ultimately heart breaking).

But the core of this film  and also the reason why the action scenes
in the third act really do have an impact and all the mayhem really
gets to you  is the intelligent, skilfully told story with its
well-drawn, believable characters (portrayed by equally believable
actors). The tragic simian/human conflict mirrors our real  and very
human  past and present day wars and social frictions in a very
credible way and thus makes this film resonate far beyond what any mere
Sci-Fi premise would let you expect. 

So my verdict: With its beautiful imagery, highly relevant story and
breath-taking effects, 'Dawn of the Planet of the Apes' is as close to
a Science-Fiction masterpiece as its mass-audience orientated
constrictions allowed it to be (which  in this case  is very close);
an astonishing achievement and highly recommended. 9 stars out of 10.

Favorite Films: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054200841/
<|_=00=_|>
I wonder why this movie has such a high rating. This tricked me into
going to the theater to watch it. So, a virus kills most people on
earth. At the same time the apes evolve and become intelligent. Of
course this has to happen over generations and not just by the passing
of time in the same individuals, but let's say it happened. And so the
plot holes begin:

All the human survivors are gathered in one building in the middle of
San Fransisco. What are they eating? Do they grow the earth? -No

Do they raise livestock? -No.

Are they near a spring or well to have fresh running water? -No.

Are they dressed in animal skins or primitive hand made clothes? -No,
they use 10 or 15 year old clothes and look great.

So all these people together produce a lot of waste, what happens to
it? -Nothing, probably use the sewers which are capable of functioning
forever without any maintenance of any kind. Probably the writers
imagined the survivors using the toilet and flushing and the water
appearing magically from taps, showers and toilets...

What do they really need? -Power to charge the i-Pad to see the old
photos. Of course they cannot go to the nearest refinery or gas depot
and fill a tanker truck, but they risk their lives going to the
mountains against angry intelligent apes, because the radio uses a lot
of power and the nuclear plant doesn't work any more. Makes perfect
sense.

And of course when they repair the dam the power magically transfers to
the city, tenths of miles far, because of course poles do not fall down
and cables don't cut after 10 or 15 years without maintenance just like
the sewers.

The apes can all talk, and the villain ape has English accent. They
prefer to use sign language though because a language which is useless
in the dark or even just when the other person is not looking at you is
superior to a spoken language.

And which is the best way to test guns? By shooting them, because 10-15
years old or older guns with out any kind of maintenance never blow up
in your face when you try to shoot them.

And then the apes learn to use the guns and they shoot literally
thousands of rounds without ever reloading. No need to reload in
wonderland... I, personally had one year of training for my military
service, and I am still not sure how to use a weapon I was not trained
with but hey I m not an ape!

A lot more stupidity from the writers and finally, the human warns the
apes that the army is coming to wipe them out, but the ape leader which
through the entire movie is depicted as intelligent, moderate and
cautious does not order to hide in the woods. Instead he stays in the
city waiting for the army.

The characters are a joke, especially the bad guys, and generally don't
spend any money on this if you are over 16 years old. Don't watch it
altogether if you are under 16 years old because it is full of stupid
and meaningless violence...
<|_=00=_|>
I had been really looking forward to Dawn but it was a wasted
opportunity in my opinion.

I liked how in the original that you felt for Caesar and the apes and
their plight was a simple one in just wanting to get to the forest.
Okay an origin story always offers more meat but it had me a lot more
involved than Dawn which was ultimately a leadership struggle film.

I felt this film was weaker because it descended into the rather
clichéd dad trying to connect with his son, 2nd in command wants to
take over, they have a big bust up at the end. If the main protagonists
were humans and not superbly rendered apes, I think some more might
think the story a little predictable, almost like the Lion King.

It's like how I thought the first was clever for showing the monkey
strengths and ingenuity in outsmarting the humans. However in this film
the monkeys wouldn't actually have been any good at aiming the guns or
reloading. So although cool seeing them fire guns, the humans would
still have had a tactical advantage.

I'm not saying this to be a spoil sport for the action scenes but it
was lazy film making that the makers didn't then think of a clever way
to use the monkey strengths to get round this tactical weakness.

Fox bundled the original director out of the way for daring to want to
make something of equal calibre and switched in Reeves to create an
inferior sequel that hit all of the generic blockbuster marks but had
no real heart. Maybe this is proof that recreating the 'lightening in a
bottle' of Rise does require a little more time and effort than simply
throwing money at special effects.

For me it was one step forward in the technology and CGI but two steps
back in the story telling. In Rise, the effects aided the story. In
Dawn, they were the story.
<|_=00=_|>
What on EARTH are the people who have raved about this film watching?
Anything other than a co-ordinated, presumably paid, campaign of
solicited positive reviews seems improbable to me.

I was really looking forward to seeing this film. I loved the opening
movie of this new take on the franchise for it's original and
thoughtful way of kick-starting an updated 21st century imagining for
the birth of sentient apes. I read Pierre Boulle's "Monkey Planet" in
the 70's, and loved the original series of movies (even the naffer,
later ones after "escape"). This may be largely influenced by my
youthful age at the time and general love of science fiction.

I have no problem with the willing suspension of disbelief or escapism.
A film doesn't have to make perfect sense in "the real world" for me to
appreciate it. What i do have a huge problem with, however, is the lazy
and cavalier way this movie utterly cuts loose from the premise so
carefully set up in "Rise", and which i was intrigued to see explored
further in this plot less, pointless travesty.

There is so much wrong with this movie that i am simply unable to
catalogue it, however, here are a few pointers.......

1) it is set just 10 years after "rise". Yet, in this time, the West
Coast of America has in the main turned into jungle. Old petrol
stations are shown looking as overgrown and integrated into the
greenery as various Inca ruins look today, surrounded by mature trees
that tower above them.

2) There is a massive population of smart apes who can use sign
language, and some talking apes living in the jungle. Far more than the
indigenous population of the west coast could ever explain (though only
(count 'em) one Orangutang, called Maurice, in the film's only nice
touch - a nod to Maurice Evans who played Dr Zaius in the original).
He, at least, can also write, scribing "Ape not kill ape" etc on rocks,
which the baby apes can presumably read??? Are you chuckling yet? In
just ten short years since "rise", 100's of thousands of years of
evolution have been spread liberally, though very unevenly, across this
vast ape population, who presumably flew over to the states when they
heard how cool the west coast was to hang out at these days. Though,
even the apes who can't talk yet, sort of grab that extra bit of
evolution needed to get a bit shouty when some "dramatic" piece of
"plot" development spurs them individually on....

Actually, i am losing the will to go on, since i would run up against
the 1000 word limit long before i ran out of ire at the lazy, trite,
inconsistent, banal, clichéd "plot" so i will limit myself to one more
observation.

3) once the apes grab automatic weapons, as they invariably must, they
become instantly proficient in their use and have the supernatural
ability to summon UNLIMITED AMMUNITION from the same mysterious realm
that transported them all in, forged their tree dwellings and bypassed
Darwin so succinctly. Plus, they get the ability to put tanks on
autopilot.

And i didn't even start on the humans tale.....what the hell was Gary
Oldman thinking of, appearing in this pile of chimp manure. Or the
overblown schmaltzy soundtrack, which "helpfully' illustrates important
emotional, or dramatic "events" in the film.

Truly, this is an experience beyond parody. As Charlton Heston would
undoubtedly have commented to the director and writers of this movie
"You maniacs! You blew it up! Ah, damn you! God damn you all to hell"

1/10 for very fluid CGI, though in 2014 i begin to question whether
this warrants any points, such is the accepted state of the art?
<|_=00=_|>
As an avowed fan of the original Planet of the Apes films and the 2011
reboot Rise of the Planet of the Apes, it was with some anticipation
that I awaited this latest instalment in the prequel series. Maybe I
had my expectations too high, or maybe the film is just missing that
something special, but I left the cinema feeling a little underwhelmed.
Of course, the motion capture effects are amazing, the post-apocalyptic
atmosphere is suitably bleak (power supplies have almost been exhausted
and the human populace is in panic mode) and there is action aplenty,
which might very well be the problem. You see, as strange as it may
seem given that the majority of characters are apes, Dawn of the Planet
of the Apes is very typical in both its characterisations and narrative
structure.

Directed by Matt Reeves (Cloverfield, Let Me In), Dawn of the Planet of
the Apes picks up the story 10 years after the events of the previous
film with the vast majority of the earth's population having been wiped
out; either by the ALZ-113 virus or the violence that broke out as
panic set in. A group of survivors have etched out an existence amongst
the remnants of what was once San Francisco, but fuel supplies have
been exhausted and an alternate power source must be found. Meanwhile,
in the forests north of the city, the burgeoning ape population is
living peacefully under the rule of Caesar (Andy Serkis), a benevolent
dictator of sorts. When a group of humans led by Malcolm (Australia's
Jason Clarke) head into the forest in an effort to repair a dam that
could potentially generate power for the city, conflict ensues. Despite
the best efforts of Caesar and Malcolm to hash out a peaceful
co-existence between the two groups, ignorance and distrust abounds and
the tensions escalate. There are the requisite bad guys on each side 
Gary Oldman's Dreyfus for the humans and the scarred Koba (Toby
Kebbell) for the apes  whose actions ultimately result in war between
the two groups.

The attitudes and actions of key characters are a reflection of what
has been happening around the world for as long as we can remember.
Koba's experiences in captivity have left him with a bitter hatred of
all humans, an attitude that reflects ways in which certain groups
today (such as the Islamic community) are marginalised because of the
actions of a few. Dreyfus, on the other hand is of the arrogant belief
that they are "just apes" and thereby don't pose a serious threat.
Again, how many times in history have we seen such situations where one
group has such an overwhelming sense of superiority over another that
they feel utterly justified in their desire to use force in an effort
to secure what they want. Of course Caesar and Malcolm, who have
developed a mutual respect and know that such conflict is completely
unnecessary, are caught in the middle as war breaks out. The parallels
to conflicts such as those in the Middle East are obvious and it is
this distinct lack of subtlety that prevents the film from soaring as
an engaging narrative. Reeves was obviously conscious of the need to
appease an action-obsessed audience desperate for a fix of mayhem and
chaos and such a focus prevents the film from offering any genuine
insight into what is an utterly intriguing premise.

There is still much to appreciate in what has been achieved on a
technical and aesthetic level. The motion capture work is brilliant
and, even if there are a few moments where some of the apes don't look
quite real, the creation of the forest world and the apes who inhabit
it is remarkable; certainly a far cry from Roddy McDowall in costume in
the first Planet of the Apes in 1968. As Caesar, Andy Serkis is
fabulous and it is great to see that he is duly credited as the star of
the film. The casting of Clarke as Norman is a good choice because he
doesn't bring any pre-conceived audience expectations or the baggage of
previous roles that might burden a higher profile actor. Whilst Clarke
is quietly effective as Norman, fellow Aussie Kodi Smit-McPhee has
little to do as his son Alexander, while Keri Russell's Ellie is the
convenient love interest with requisite medical training. Perhaps the
biggest disappointment amongst the cast is seeing a talented actor like
Oldman confined yet again to a one-dimensional role as a bombastic,
narrow-minded douchebag. Whilst there are elements that impress, Dawn
of the Planet of Apes possesses neither the intelligence nor the heart
of its predecessor.
<|_=00=_|>
I want to write a different kind of review for this movie because every
other bad review has already said most of what is so bad about it. My
two star rating is for Andy Serkis alone, who I think is a true artist
with everything he does!

This review is a Spoiler from start to finish!

Massive budget - check 

A reasonably good first movie of the franchise - check 

Andy Serkis - check 

Storyline - let's talk about that point

Writers sitting in a room to put together a "great storyline" for this
sequel:

We are set only 10 years after "The Rise" so...

"What are the basics we need"?

"Apes"

"Good. What else"?

"Humans."

"Sure, but maybe a few less. Let's face it, the Apes have to have a
chance at fighting the humans. Say we kill off most humans on earth,
leaving just hundreds left in smaller groups...but how?"

"A virus! A virus that was a result of complicated genetic...."

"Perfect! A virus! And we can say it had something to do with the Apes
and so on! We need to keep it simple. Moving on. What else do we need?"

"A new nice guy...Oh, and maybe a couple of "actors" playing his
family"

"What happened to James Franco? Never mind...a new nice guy then. What
about more important things now like...we need a war. So, how do we
give the Apes a chance against the technologically advanced humans?
Should they be 'building' sophisticated weapons to challenge the
humans?"

"One option would definitely be to have the humans create a massive
arms depot and just have two idiots look after it. Oh, and maybe these
two idiots could also just spend their time drinking and shooting for
no reason. It would be easier to kill them off that way. This way the
Apes would have access to lots of guns, which they know how to use,
since...they are intelligent."

"Awesome...but how do we explain the arms depot. Did I miss something
about zombies or others human enemies in the outline?

"Nope, just the virus. The humans aren't really aware of the Apes
initially.

"Ok...arms depot it is."

"How do we get things kicking off?"

"I'd say we need a human volatile and a monkey volatile."

"Say no more...done"

"Anything else?

"Explosions"

"I agree. That's it for today. We meet again next week to discuss the
next sequel. Thank you for taking time of your well deserved luxury
life style!"

This is my first review of a movie. The enjoyment of writing this
review made up for the 2-hour agony of watching an appallingly bad
story line together with poor acting and terrible scripting. And most
of all - a negligence to explain anything to the audience.
<|_=00=_|>
While this film was a little slow it delves into the heart of an issue
that has plagued us for centuries: why do we fight each other and why
do we go out of our way to kill each other. While this film involves
the beginning of a war between humans and apes, this war could
represent any war between two clans or factions, with the difference
being ideological, cultural, or even as pathetic as the colour of one's
skin. It is clear that the hostilities that arise come down to
differences that are pretty much only skin deep, and that is that one
side are apes and the other side is human.

As I watched this film though it made me think about the wars that are
brewing, or raging, around the globe, and how many of these wars begin
through misunderstandings and outright lies. Among the apes we are
being told that humans are barbaric and dangerous, and that they cannot
be trusted. Among the humans we are told that the apes are responsible
for the virus that devastated humanity. Then there is the manipulation
of facts and the propaganda that begins the war, as well as the
struggle within the factions, between those who see war as being
pointless, as well as those who believe that it is necessary, because
those who do not go to war are weak and will end up being overthrown.

There is also the misunderstandings and the distrust between the two
sides, for while they are told to discard their weapons, there is one
that always has to ignore the request due to the fear that by
discarding their weapons they open themselves up to being attacked and
being defenceless. Of course there are those who are always looking for
a peaceful solution, trying to work together, however the peaceful ones
are always being undermined by the war mongers, who for some reason
seem to have the loudest voices.

Sometimes I wonder whether Hollywood actually supports the warmongers
in power, or whether they are closer to the left as the right claim
they are. For me it is the Hollywood dichotomy in that they have
aspects of both the left and the right within their culture. Obviously
there is the lose morals of many of the characters, and of course the
idea that seeking revenge for being wronged is actually okay (which
seems to form the basis of many an action movie). In this film it is
the question of war, and the fact that when it comes to war, those who
cry for war, and those who manipulate the truth to fuel the passions of
the masses, are those that then to come out on top, and those who
advocate for peace are seen as weak, and in some cases, unpatriotic.
<|_=00=_|>
Humans generally have a superiority complex that makes them often
consider all other forms of life as inadequate. Civilization has
exemplified the mass exploitation and selfishness humans are capable of
in the past, and present, on numerous occasions. The Planet of the Apes
series delves on this complex. It displays the vulnerabilities of the
human race and how nothing is to be underestimated.

Dawn of the Planet of the Apes will surely entertain. As the sequel to
the last instalment, we follow Caesar in his new habitat following the
human pandemic instigated by the Simian influenza. In a world where the
human population is depleted and infrastructure collapsed, society is
broken apart and in a fragile state. With stubborn and selfish humans,
the fate of humanity does not rest in good hands. 

Watching this film, I cannot say there ever was a moment of dullness
nor boredom. Though, for me, there was nothing exceptional about it.
The plot is one that we have come to expect and the CGI was certainly
state of the art. Putting this aside, it is the story of Caesar and the
strive for freedom of all that captures this movie's true essence.
Empathizing with these intelligent beings no longer being the tools of
humans is one to both support and fear. It is this unique mixture of
elements that make Dawn of the Planet of the Apes so touching yet
stimulating.

This is a movie I'd recommend all to see since it offers a perspective
many contemporary films fail to produce.
<|_=00=_|>
Sequels can be a worry when coming from big studios. Greedy cash-ins
are all too familiar, where rather than stepping further into the world
established by the predecessor and exploring unlimited opportunities in
character and themes, they just add more antagonists, more action and
more noise. It can also be worrying when the original director who
helped see a great film through till the end is replaced in the next
film. Rise of the Planet of the Apes was a refreshing and involving
take on an old franchise and director Rupert Wyatt set up such promise
for its sequel. Matt Reeves takes over the reins here on Dawn...and
thankfully has taking the film to a rare, brilliant new level.

The film is set ten years after the first film. The ALZ-113 virus has
continued to evolve Apes. Led by Caesar, they have made their home in
the woods and bred. On the other side of the island (and the world),
humans are scarce. The virus has had the opposite effect and spread,
killing billions. Those thousands we do see remaining are struggling to
survive. When an unfortunate situation occurs between the two sides,
war is imminent. But not all humans and Apes agree with the potentially
devastating results.

Whereas Rise of the Planet of the Apes was a stripped back study of the
science at the core of the story, whilst investing us in the human
drama, Dawn of the Planet of the Apes throws us head first into a very
different world. The scope is immense and multi-layered. At one view,
it's a dead, frightening post-apocalyptic world. At another, it's
brisk, dynamic and visually arresting. Matt Reeves has such a masterful
handle on every string and creates brooding scope, claustrophobic
tension and powerful action sequences; all amongst a basic, but
incredibly rich morality play which is raw and powerfully spoken. What
is most fantastic about the character approach is nothing is clear cut.
Good vs. Bad meet in the middle and spirals out to both sides. I could
sit here and blabber about the complete awe I had of the major step up
in visual effects of the Apes, but that's not what caught my attention.
Right from the opening scene of an extreme close-up of Caesars eyes, I
felt the characters. The performances from all stunt men and actors
bringing life to these apes transcend the visual brilliance. It is
collective. It is immersive. It is terrifying. Andy Serkis delivers one
of his most satisfying performances to date. His dedication and his
understanding of every thread and fiber of Caesars being are in every
frame of this film. And I cannot forget to mention the all-out,
aggressive performance from Toby Kebbell as Koba. He breaks the barrier
of something quite terrifying and strong.

Dawn of the Planet of the Apes transcends the Hollywood blockbuster.
Not only does it deliver that rare sequel explores its world and
characters further, but it's also richly told, beautifully and
hauntingly portrayed and truly exciting and terrifying in equal
measures. Quite possibly one of the best films of 2014.
<|_=00=_|>
I couldn't hide my eagerness to go to cinema on the first day, because
the "first Ape" is soooo good. But after 15 mins of watching, I can
predict the whole story, and keep hoping my prediction would be wrong.
NO! The story is old, ridiculous and easy going.

The Dawn might receive my better review if it was released 10-15 years
ago. But it's 2014, please, except CGI, the rest is easy to know before
you watch, overwhelmed with non-sense details and very stupid.

- Apes teach each other human's language but never use it? - Apes live
next to human around 10 miles but no one knows? Even the whole world
has been trying to find them for years? - The factory is workable after
so many years with just a little effort of 4 guys in several hours?
Come on, I live in the country where we depend on such power source, to
run such kind of factory, we need a big team of engineers, workers from
many departments working together on specific conditions. - We just
need a stupid man and stupid apes' leader ever to start the war so
easily. - ipad, cameras and many electronic devices are working well
after many years without power, wow. - Human are lazy,aggressive and
selfish. I think when those people living in such kind of condition (no
food, no electronics...), they should kill each other before apes come.
... 

I don't want to list more and more non-sense and illogical details but
how the writer can ignore so many basic thing like that? Huge
disappointed about the "second ape". 

Finally, the ape leader who didn't want the war, now stays in the city
to wait an army coming to kill them all. OMG...Can't be "better"
ending.
