
I can understand how most people view this film within the context of
Hurricane Katrina. But even as a former denizen of the Gulf coast who
sat out Alicia, Claudette, Allen, Rita, and Ike, I view this film in a
much, much larger context. It goes beyond stereotype and into archetype
-- the denizens of the Bathtub aren't poor drunks at the mercy of the
environment, they are The People of the world they inhabit. Hushpuppy
doesn't have a drunk father, she has a Father, with many of the faults
and strengths of the immortal epic heroes -- anger, pride, genuine love
and concern. Hushpuppy herself isn't just a little girl, she is The
Child -- the purveyor of a magic which is real, intimately connected
with her world, imaginatively linked with All Things. The outside world
is a place of Things and Machines, of paperwork and rules -- and is
never actually named, you see, because that would diminish it.
Everything in this film exists within the realm of archetype, and if
you watch it with that in mind, its multiple messages take on cosmic
significance. Beautifully shot, beautifully acted -- it's going to take
a few more days for the entire thing to completely sink in.
Outstanding!
<|_=00=_|>
Beasts of the Southern Wild is shot through the eyes of a six year old.
To Hushpuppy (Quvenzhane Wallis), the islands of southern Louisiana are
a magical place filled with lucky people who do not have to live like
cowards behind the levees and only get one holiday a year. Hushpuppy's
voice-over reveals the island folk rarely need an excuse to have a
party or take another holiday. If this film were shot through the more
perceptive eyes of an adult, the audience I bet would get a much
different take on things. Extreme poverty, alcoholism, and child
neglect are just the first few overt issues which come to mind. It was
a very wise move for the filmmakers to stick with the child
protagonist. Magical realism is far more acceptable and preferable to
an audience than what could arguably be termed child cruelty.

Hushpuppy and her father, Wink (Dwight Henry), live in an area called
'The Bathtub'. It is not protected by the New Orleans levee system,
people scuttle around from place to place by haphazardly crafted boats,
and everyone expects that some day, the melting polar ice caps will
submerge their homes and only the strong will survive. It turns out
that some day in Beasts of the Southern Wild is now. When Hushpuppy
first hears the thunder of the coming storm, she believes it to the be
the sound of melting glaciers falling off of Antarctica. It is never
mentioned by name; however, the storm appears to be Hurricane Katrina.
Since the main part of her father's and his friends' days consist of
drinking, there are no preparations for the coming calamity, just
praise for the brave souls staying behind for what they claim will be a
little wet weather and catcalls to those fleeing behind the levees.
Where is mama in all of this? The idea of mama to Hushpuppy is and old,
dirty basketball jersey she carries around with her and sometimes talks
to. Every now and then, Hushpuppy thinks she sees mama when she
glimpses a far away lighthouse or watches an approaching helicopter.
Whether mama is dead or has just run off is another unexplained
phenomenon kept by daddy.

After the storm, Hushpuppy and daddy float around in their make shift
boat which is the back of an old pickup truck with a struggling
outboard hanging on behind it. They meet up with a few other survivors
who immediately start engaging in activities they do best, drinking.
However, this was not your regular storm. The water is not receding,
the animals, even the fish, are dying, and whatever sickness daddy had
to start with is starting to pick up speed. Throughout the ensuing
scenes to remedy their dreadful situation, Hushpuppy keeps the audience
involved with her prescient voice-over. A notable example is her
comparison of getting old and sick outside of the levee wall versus
inside of it. Outside there is savagery; the young will eat the old and
move on. Inside, they plug you into the wall (ventilators). Whenever
daddy feels he has been a particularly lousy father, he teaches
Hushpuppy to do something such as catch a catfish her bare hands and be
sure to give it a good punch when she gets it into the boat. There is
also an odd side story involving long extent carnivores called aurochs.
They represent the savage beasts who kill and eat anything and
everything. The allegory is not readily apparent and its payoff is
understated at best. 

This description sounds starkly bleak, which the subject matter surely
is, but the film is very well put together. The scenery looks like it
would after biblical destruction, the actors appear to all be locals
and have the accents to prove it, and the music is incorporated
effectively. The very young actress playing Hushpuppy is phenomenal.
Perhaps a few years from now she will realize just how deep her
character is written and how only a very minority of child actors could
have possible pulled it off. Her father, while not necessarily a
sympathetic character, was well cast and while is not particularly an
ignorant man, is certainly a man set in his ways determined his progeny
will follow in the local footsteps. Having respect for and maintaining
the traditions of your place of birth is one thing, but more than
likely, Hushpuppy is being set up for a life of substance abuse and
unsteady employment. However, that is jumping ahead. Beasts of the
Southern Wild is about a very specific time and place with thoughts
only of the next meal, not tomorrow, and definitely not next month. 

The camaraderie between our heroes and the locals is fun to watch and
seeing how they make the best of a horrible situation is quite creative
when you see it as Hushpuppy does. There is a high probability this
film will continue to progress with strong word of mouth, end up on
several Top 10 lists, and be in line for some Oscar nominations. The
film is certainly worthy of the word of mouth it is getting because
audiences have really not seen anything like this before, but the
automatic Top 10 inclusion is a bit far-fetched. It is winning awards
for cinematography, but the hand held camera borders on annoying at
times. If there is a party, the audience intuitively understands it is
fun. Does the camera have to wildly spin around as well? When someone
is running, must the camera bounce up and down too? See Beasts of the
Southern Wild for the story, the locations, and the child actor. You
will tell your friends about it the next day.
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say about Beasts of the Southern Wild, that hasn't already
been said. It's the most magical and imaginative film of the year, so
far. In Benh Zeitlin's Beasts of the Southern Wild, the wild things are
in a place known as the Bathtub, a remote stretch of the Louisiana
bayou profoundly cut off from the rest of modern civilization. Beasts
of Southern Wild is an unique vision that sweeps viewers away with
energy, attitude and a full, vibrant, sense of life. Containing
outstanding performances, great cinematography, and a fantastic score,
the film is just so engrossing.

Hushpuppy feels her connection not only to nature and animals, but also
to the prehistoric era, represented throughout the film by her interest
in cave drawings andmore fancifullyprehistoric beasts called aurochs
that have been released from the ice caps and make their way toward the
Bathtubat least in Hushpuppy's mind. The difference between what's
real and what lives in the imagination of our six-year-old heroine is
not always clear, but it's all delivered with a beautifully assured
sense of wonder.

Beasts of the Southern Wild unfolds through Hushpuppy's eyes, and it's
a sight to behold: sometimes wondrous, often disordered and
dysfunctional. It's hard not to see the film through a political lens
even if you're apolitical. But there's no stridency here: Fantastical
moments and a fantastic script manage to juggle so much with grace. As
Hushpuppy says, "The entire world depends on everything fitting
together just right." But her world is one where wealth and squalor
co-exist all too easily, the discrepancy painfully obvious (even though
we don't really see the other world), the puzzle pieces not equal in
weight or importance. Yet the hardscrabble people of Bathtub still find
a way to channel their joy, even though they've been forgotten.

It's all the more impressive that such a confident and resourceful film
comes from a first-timer; writer-director Benh Zeitlin previously
impressed Sundance audiences with the Hurricane Katrina inspired short
"Glory at Sea." He collaborated on the screenplay for "Beasts" with
Lucy Alibar and worked with a cast and crew of mostly non-professionals
(both Wallis and Henry make genuinely astonishing screen debuts). That
freshness may very well be key to the film's creative success. There's
a feeling of genuine enthusiasm and ingenuity in their work here, as if
everyone involved was truly discovering the power and potential of
filmmaking for the first time.
<|_=00=_|>
You have never seen anything quite like "Beasts of the Southern Wild".
It is a film that will have you thinking about the love between a
father and a daughter, about appreciating what you have in life and our
ability to adapt to whatever comes at us. Quvenzhané Wallis is certain
to beat Anna Paquin and Tatum O'Neal out as the youngest best actress
nominee in history. Best original Screenplay is also almost a
certainty. Go in with an open mind and enjoy this unique film that
plays almost like a documentary and yet is full of fantasy elements as
well. This is a don't miss.

If I have one quibble with the film it is the hand-held camera
technique that at least in the early scenes is particularly annoying.
It usually takes so much from my enjoyment of the film. I get it
though, it gives it a more realistic feel and in this film it may have
added to the overall experience. Still bugs me though.

Another plus at the screening tonight in Denver was a long Q and A with
the talented director/screenwriter Benh Zeitlin, Dwight Henry who
played the father Wink, and Quvenzhané Wallis. Lovely people all, and I
hope to see their work in many films to come.
<|_=00=_|>
I heard a lot about this movie on IMDb a few months ago and its recent
Oscar nominations peaked my interest. So I decided to give it a go and,
not only was it a disappointment, I was actually p*ssed off after
watching it. In some ways, I'm flabbergasted that this film has
received so much praise. But I can also see how it very much fits a
formula of what certain critics and film buffs usually want to spew
praise over. 'Into The Wild' being another great example of this.
'Beasts of the Southern Wild' (BotSW) is one of those movies that comes
along now and then and manages to pull a great hoodwink on a lot of the
movie going public. A hoodwink in that it seems from the majority of
the reviews that the content of this movie and the messages that it
leaves you with seem to have been largely ignored by most people. Those
messages being that things such as child abuse, alcoholism and casual
prostitution are fine as long as they're done against a backdrop of
tweeness.

There is so much wrong with this movie, it's hard to know where to
start, but I'll give it a go

1. The Acting: Apart from the girl who plays Hushpuppy, the acting in
this film is pretty poor. I guess some of the actors aren't helped by
the roles that they're playing: nearly all of the adults that we see
for the majority of the film are either layabout drunkards or
prostitutes.

2. The Dialogue: When it's not incoherent nonsense being babbled in a
thick Cajun accent by some drunkard, it's some pseudo-intellectual,
twee, sub-Forrest Gump twaddle being philosophised by a 6-year old.
"When it all goes quiet behind my eyes, I see everything that made me
flying around in invisible pieces". Urgh

3. The Story: BotSW drags out for 90 mins, yet the story itself that's
actually hidden within the movie would be told in a third of that time.
Oh, yes, but that's right, it's not the destination that matters right?
It's the journey? And what a tedious journey it is for all concerned.

4. The Cinematography: As other reviewers have pointed out, the
hand-held camera work is taken to the extreme on BotSW, to the point
that you're almost nauseous by the end of the movie.

5. The Moral Messages of the Film: This is by far the biggest problem
that I have with this movie and why I'm somewhat shocked that it has
received so much praise. There are many number of issues that I have
with this.

The Parent / Child Dynamic: Hushpuppy's father is an unemployed,
somewhat unhinged drunkard. He has apparently made no effort to provide
a life for his child, as they live in a shack that looks like it has
been assembled from foraged and discarded junk. He drinks almost
constantly, he beats his daughter, screams at her regularly, he finds
out he has a serious terminal illness and yet he makes no plans to
provide a life for his daughter after he passes away. Yet, rarely does
the director or the story suggest that Wink isn't a good father. His
death isn't portrayed as Hushpuppy being freed from a man who may
little to no attempt to father her when on earth. Rather it's more
portrayed as poor old Wink being freed from the illness ravaging his
body.

The Actions of the Protagonists: As other reviewers have pointed out,
they make absolutely no sense. Rather than seek help from the mainland
after the storm, the main characters decide to try and blow a hole in
the levy with an improvised bomb. The suggestion being that rather than
lower themselves to accepting aid from "the outside" they are willing
to endanger lives of people directly on the other side of the levy and
destroy it through their criminal actions. Wink consistently refuses
any assistance for his apparent Leukaemia and makes no attempt to
provide a life for Hushpuppy after he dies, short of leaving her in the
care of a man with an even worse drinking problem than he has.

Them vs. Us: any help offered by kind people from the outside in the
aftermath of the storm is consistently treated with utter distain by
the main characters. Their rejection of outside assistance is never
explored past the shallow suggestion that they are outsiders / not from
the Bathtub / don't understand our way of life.
<|_=00=_|>
Every year or so, there is a critically acclaimed Oscar nominee for
Best Picture that just leaves me confused because I seem to be
completely out of touch with these experts. Last year it was "The Tree
of Life"--which the Academy loved and I hated. This year, though I have
not seen all the nominees, it is "Beasts of the Southern Wild"--a film
that critics and the Academy adore but which left me wondering why I
bothered watching the movie in the first place. I just couldn't see
what they saw in this film.

Before I discuss the odd meandering plot, I'll address my biggest
problem with the film--the camera-work. I understand that this is a
very cheaply made indie film, so they didn't have a lot of money for
fancy cameras. However, it uses what I call 'the unsteady cam'--camera
work that deliberately heightens the sense it's being done with a
hand-held camera. Now they do have affordable cameras that will
compensate for motion and can give you a nice, steady shot. However,
about 20 years ago, someone thought it would be great to have a shot
that looks like it was done on an iPhone. All I know is that watching
it might easily make you motion sick! Please, please...just give me
normal camera-work!!

As far as the story goes, it never made any sense. It involves a young,
almost feral child who lives in a horrible little hellish village in
Louisiana where everything is broken and old and dirty. I know these
people are poor, but this went well beyond poverty. The children learn
from a teacher who uses foul language and talks about prehistoric
'Aurocs'. As for the child's homelife, NONE OF IT MADE ANY SENSE. Her
mother was gone...okay. But the father lives in a SEPARATE home
nearby--as well as in some separate reality. Seeing a tiny child
running about a broken down filthy trailer and playing with a
flamethrower (of sorts) just brought out the dad in me--and I wanted to
yell out that they need to rescue this child from this horrible
environment. She also eats cat food. Soon, she burns the place down and
then spends most of the rest of the film hanging with her crazy father
who was dying. Then there's a big storm and the village is a mess. And,
in the end, after treating the child like a pet for much of the film,
the dad dies and the child burns him in a funeral pyre. WHAT?!?!?! What
was the point?! Who are these people?! Why is this a film I should
see?! A tiny little child barbecuing her dead daddy?! What?!? Maybe I
am the odd-ball, but I truly hated this film and can't see how it could
appeal to the average viewer. It sure didn't appeal to me in any way. I
guess the child was good at acting but apart from that I can think of
no compelling reason to see this.
<|_=00=_|>
As I said, I thought the film is over-rated, over-hyped, formless,
basically plot less, and trite. The father is a mean drunk (who still
loves his kid), and the kid is a solemn and wise six year-old. Two
stereotypes, wouldn't you say? They live in The Bathtub, a shattered
but colorful community on the gulf side of the levee. The community is
comprised of other drunk people who also love and care about Hushpuppy,
the young girl. Hushpuppy is quite precocious, interested in things
that don't usually concern girls of her age: the after-life, ecology,
such eternal questions as the meaning of life. She of course loves her
mean drunk father and all the furred and feathered creatures that live
in their little farmlet. There is an air about the film that is
surreal. The characters in their madness are a bit like the characters
in Mad Max. They are all over-sized and eminently watchable in their
enthusiastic inebriation. But I wished for a few moments of lucidity,
where people just talk to each other without ranting and raving. The
overall impression that I got is one of sadness. There is very little
joy -- other than that which comes from the bottle -- in their lives.
This said, I enjoyed the movie. It is very watchable, but in a guilty
sort of way. Their lives are painful. It is set in a part of the world
that we don't normally see, with people we would generally avoid.
Technically it is very well done. The visuals are great. I would
recommend seeing it but not attending too much to the surrounding hype.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film carefully, twice. Apparently, liberal reviewers got
caught up in the notion of a "natural, mixed-ethnic local community" in
Katrina-land and concentrated on the themes of community, family, and
the triumph of "naturalness" over "modernity." These are important
themes, if dealt with in a coherent, sensitive, intelligent fashion.
However, this film offers none of these qualities. In giving the film
high ratings, many reviewers ignored the film's countless flaws and
negative aspects, including idiotic (at times phony-mystical) dialogue,
acceptance of child abuse, alcohol abuse, and sheer stupidity,
glorification of prostitution, and romanticizing pervasive squalor. A
key moment of "triumph" in the film involves the filthy, ragtag
assortment of characters physically assaulting a group of public health
workers who are trying to assist them. I ask any New York Limousine
Liberal reviewer who found this mess to be "uplifting" to answer the
following -- would you allow any of the central characters in this film
to reside in your apartment building? (Of course they would not.) Oh
--- the central character is a very graceful and beautiful young child
actress, Quvenzhané Wallis. Her main "acting" consists of grimacing at
the camera. I found her to be more puzzling than convincing, and
(literally) she has about one-tenth the acting chops of Dakota Fanning
at the same age, who did more with her eyes alone in any one minute on
camera than Miss Wallis does in the entire movie. Standing there
looking sullen when you are supposed to be experiencing a run of
emotion is not acting, no matter how adorable you are.
<|_=00=_|>
The film is one of those rare examples of every element being
extraordinary. The acting, the directing, the script, the music is all
superb and blend together to create the magical world of the bathtub.
The film looks and sounds amazing. Everything is so beautifully shot,
with a crispness and a warmth. The score is used sparingly and is never
manipulative. This may be one of those movies that everyone raves about
but gets overlooked come Oscar season because it doesn't have a big
enough name attached to it or pandered to the Academy enough, but it
could easily be nominated for at leave four or five awards.
http://amandalovesmovies.com/2012/07/02/beasts-of-the-southern-wild/
<|_=00=_|>
I do not consider myself unsophisticated. I appreciate the works of
Cocteau, Bunuel, Fellini, even Ionesco. But I am certain that
incomprehensibility does not equal art. I cannot express how truly bad
this was. The characters had no development, no motivation for their
action, and spoke dialogue so random as to make me wonder if my hearing
was going. Technically the picture quality was abut that you would
expect of a $100 digital camera and the 'arty' scene composition was
about the kind of thing you might get by giving a 3-year old a
videocam- wildly shaky with lots of closeups of peoples shoulders,
butts, and random floorboards. The plot (as it were) had very
disturbing flashes of child abuse, mixed messages about alcohol abuse
and prostitution and a very weird segment posing aide workers trying to
help starving, sick, and drowning people in the role of as some kind of
evil aliens. Oh yeah, there was some kind of eco-message and a little
very bad magical realism thrown is to make us all feel like were in the
same philosophical boat as the idiotic characters. The sad thing is
what a waste of potential this was. It has a wonderful child actor and
a good cast in general. They get a couple of stars. The rest should be
dealt with like a horse with a broken leg.
