
Let me start off by saying I'm fascinated by tornadoes - I've seen
Twister 100+ times as a kid and it still holds up today. Why? Because
it has relatable characters, great pacing, and a looming sense of
danger that's always around the corner. I was hoping Into the Storm
would be a modern day Twister but better - with technology the way it
is, how hard can it be to create a worthwhile disaster film with such a
simple premise? Well, Into the Storm makes it look damn near
impossible.

The positives of this movie are as follows: the tornadoes. They look
cool. That's it. Tornados on the internet look cool as well. No one
should have to sit through an hour and a half of trash to see a few
nice storm graphics. The characters in this movie are dreadful. I
challenge you to care about a single one - hell, try remembering one of
their names after the movie finishes. They're all awfully written, and
the acting doesn't help one bit. Richard Armitage was fantastic in The
Hobbit movies but holy hell it's hard to believe this is the same
person.

The story (or stories rather) are abysmal. Seriously, why make three
separate story lines for characters we don't care about? Are we
supposed to care if the dad gets forgiveness from his sons? Are we
supposed to care if the kid gets the girl from school? How about
whether or not the hillbillies make it big on Youtube? The answer is an
overwhelming "F*ck no".

Also, this is a found footage movie. Why? Beats the hell out of me. The
gimmick is getting thin in horror movies, let alone a movie like this
where they have to constantly make up excuses for these characters to
be filming everything. In fact, nothing in this movie is believable.
Twister had characters with depth - you believed that these people were
storm chasers, and you believed in the tension between Bill Paxton and
Helen Hunt's characters. Here, everything is so blown out that the
imminent threat of what's happening on-screen doesn't phase the
audience at all. We're supposed to believe that a tornado can rip
through a concrete building in two seconds but can't suck up someone
holding onto a flimsy car door? The movie makers take unbelievability
to new levels here. Into the Storm is a collection of disaster
scenarios loosely connected by multiple underwritten stories being
carried by unlikable characters. The most unbelievable thing about this
movie is the fact that I actually made it to the end.

If you want to see tornadoes, go on the internet. Stay away from this
disaster at all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
There are bad movies that are just intolerable to sit through. And then
there's "Into the Storm".

Jan de Bont's 1996 "Twister" came into cinemas like  and excuse the
pun  a blast of fresh air. Whilst "Into the Storm" is not exactly a
remake (there are no cows present at all for example!), it shares many
of the key characteristics that made Twister such a fun popcorn movie:
a truly terrible script, some pretty awful acting in places, a
predictable plot, and the occasional mind-bogglingly improbable scene,
but all redeemed by some slam-dunk fantastic visual effects.

Firstly, the script. Sneak a shot glass and a flask into the cinema and
play the new drinking game: a shot for every time anyone says "Are you
alright?". You'll be legless before the first hour is up.

Secondly the acting. This is a cast where the most well-known faces are
Richard Armitage (Thorin in the Hobbit films) and Matt Walsh (Mike
McLintock in the excellent "Veep"). And I don't like to be harsh on a
young cast of actors in the early dawn of their careers, but let's say
that some of the cast were probably cast more for their looks than
their acting talent. I also struggled with Armitage's single dad/school
principal character who in certain scenes (particularly one in the
front of the stormchaser's van) looks the spitting image of Leslie
Nielsen's Dr Rumack from "Airplane". I almost expected him to go off
into that character at any moment   "No, the school won't be safe.
And don't call me Shirley".

One of the youngsters that I think did make an impact was Nathan Kress
in his movie debut as the younger son Trey.

The predictable plot. No spoilers, but there's a small town and lots of
tornadoes: "bigger than any storm that's ever been" (since "Twister"
anyway). The plot, as it is, centres around a failing documentary film
crew trying to capture good footage before the tornado season is up:
with backer's funding drying up, the pressure is on. Walsh plays the
hard-pressed producer/director sparking off the Helen Hunt character
Allison, played by the fetching Sarah Wayne Callies, a data-besotted
scientist for who, it seems, science only works for when good luck is
in her favour. Aside from the film crew, the remainder of the cast are
the residents and schoolkids of the backwater Oklahoma town of
Silverton, with the usual disaster movie will they/won't they (die)
tensions as the tornadoes wreak their havoc. Humour is injected through
a couple of rednecks intent on making their fortune through
Jackass-style video clips on Youtube.

The improbable scenes. Again no spoilers, but one of the characters
meets an end that is massively improbable, poetic, beautifully shot and
ironic. but also snort-worthily funny. And why suddenly does sleepy
old Silverton suddenly reveal itself to have a MAJOR INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT with dozens of Jumbo jets waiting to be lifted into the skies?
Whilst a memorable special effects scene, it makes absolutely no sense
at all. It's almost as if the filmmakers got to the end of the film and
found a million dollars of contingency funding they hadn't used: "What
can we do with this? Oh, I know!". Bizarre.

And those effects! This is no "Sharknado"! The special effects are all
top notch, including a spectacular scene where a twister gobbles up a
petrol station and all of its burning fuel which is a masterclass in
CGI. I have no idea where you would even start in developing that.

The director is James Cameron protégé Steven Quale (2nd unit on
"Avatar" and "Titanic" and director of the passable "Final Destination
V"). And all in all, I think he does a pretty good job. The film is
massively helped by a sensible 90 minute running time, which is all the
light plot could really sustain anyway. And it is a good decision to
adopt (in part) a "Cloverfield" type of video blog format (part
documentary footage; part high school 'video time capsule' interviews)
that holds the interest well.

So, in summary, this is a terribly good bad film and well deserving of
your summer popcorn money. Just about everyone came out of the cinema
with a silly grin on their face. Nuff said.

(If you enjoyed this review, please see my other reviews at
bob-the-movie-man.com and sign up to follow the blog. Thanks!)
<|_=00=_|>
I caught an advance screening and found it a heck of a ride and
thrilling fun to watch. I thought it really delivered the experience of
being close up and inside the most power weather on the planet, and
left me with images that I continue to chew over with awe. For a
"disaster movie" it felt extremely realistic, and when you see news
reports on TV or YouTube you realize this stuff happens again and
again, usually in small towns just like the one in the movie, so it's
completely real and they didn't really make any of this stuff up. And I
really felt for the characters who, just like real people caught by
these events, don't want to be in a disaster movie, they just want to
get out of there alive. It got pretty emotional by the end. 

I don't get all the negative reviews I've been reading, I thought it
was really good and delivered a great night out. What do people want,
stupid Sharknado? Whatever, I had a good time watching it. And I'm glad
I caught it on a big screen instead of renting it later. Seeing it big
and overwhelming is the way to go!
<|_=00=_|>
I love Twister and disaster movies in general. Even the bad ones I can
give a pass because I just really like Mother Nature giving mankind a
whooping. This film had me excited because its another tornado movie on
the big screen that didn't involve The Asylum or SyFy Channel and it
has Thorin, how could it be bad? The answer is pretty bad which
disappoints me a lot.

Good: The tornado scenes were pretty cool. The effects were impressive
and the destruction on display was well done. The climax with the giant
tornado was exciting featuring a scene that is both ridiculous and
awesome. I also want to give Matt Walsh props for giving the best
performance and having the best character.

Bad: Even for a disaster movie, it was really weak. I don't look for
deep storytelling or even great characters, but all the characters here
are really one note or straight up clichés. No one is really interested
and suck the fun out of the movie when the tornadoes are out of the
picture. The comedy fell flat and it all just felt like a bad SyFy
disaster movie with a bigger budget.

Overall, I wanted to like this, but aside from some fun tornado scenes,
it was very generic and not that fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Into the Storm was not a movie I had a lot of expectations for. I just
wanted to have fun seeing huge tornadoes destroying everything in their
path. And that's what I got for the most part in this movie. The first
15 minutes of this movie was so bad, the dialogue was atrocious, the
characters were annoying and the writing was completely abysmal. But as
the movie starts to show more of the tornadoes, it got really fun
really quick. the movie got so much better. 

One of the best aspects of this movie is how close you really get into
the tornadoes. You go inside it and it looks frightening and beautiful
at the same time. The visuals look amazing when you're in the movie
theater. This is definitely a movie that should be seen in your nearest
theater, because it was such an experience seeing the tornadoes,
hearing the train-like noise when a tornadoes comes barreling towards
the cities and cars. It's just so awesome. 

One of the weakest aspects of this movie are the characters, we just
don't care what happens to them in the movie. But the tornadoes are
terrific and they keep coming on at you every twenty minutes or so for
two hours. Now this can be a little tiresome, but "Into the Storm" does
stop itself just in time before it completely overstays its welcome.

In the end, it's not a very good movie by any stretch of the
imagination. Again, this is the film that one will either like as a
guilty pleasure, like me, or you won't care for it at all. And even if
you do like the movie, there is still one big lapse in the whole thing
that you realize at the end. If tornadoes really did show up as often
as they do in the movie in the same general area, there would be
nothing left standing in the Midwest anymore. It would all be leveled.
<|_=00=_|>
How this movie got a 6 rating is beyond me. Maybe people don't care
much for the acting and storyline and settle down to a movie with good
special effects.

Yes, the SE were great to watch and at times kept you on the edge of
your seat but that is all. Weak in every aspect though the SE kept the
movie on its feet.

There are 2 rednecks in the movie who were possibly put in there as
comedy relief but they annoyed the hell out of me and then you have
those stupid school kids who have lines which make them look like
uneducated American teens.

I wanted to switch the movie off after the first 30 minutes as the
acting and lines just didn't do it for me, but I thought to give it a
go and as mentioned earlier, the effects were the only thing that kept
me watching till the end. 

.... and the ending made me curse a little. 

Give me twister which was and still is a great movie whereas Into The
Storm was nothing but a Hype into nothing.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay effects but the movie is lacking any sort of depth to the
characters or story at all. It's almost as if they said, oh hey this
looks cool, let's shoot that and just let the actors do whatever.. They
don't need good dialog, no one will be paying attention anyways. And
let's just throw in a random shot of someone wiping fog off the window
cause we don't have anything better to cut to after this "emotional"
scene. Also what is up it's the knife? Did it really deserve that much
attention? If you're going have 3 separate scenes about it, at least
give us some sort of back story as to why the son can't have one. Over
all, I hated it. But, I've seen worse. This one was not worth my money.
I give it a 3/10 only for the effects. Any kind of story was non
existent in this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Another version of the movie 'Twister'. Not because both the movies are
about tornadoes, but takes place in a similar fashion where a group of
twister/storm analyzers/chasers goes after their thing only to come out
in a messed-up state. Forget the 'Twister', lets talk about this film.
It had better effects, but that did not give the visuals like the
natural occurrence, mostly they over-used it. I can call it a display
for commercial purpose than reality, that's what Hollywood is famous
for, isn't it?

The fun part was, the tornado(es) behaved like it had a soul and
conscious like any living organism. 'Final Destination 5' was one of
the best digital 3D movie at that time, when it comes to the awesome
pop-ups and very disappointed with this film which was crafted by the
same director.

The plus point was, it mildly entertains with a merely good pace of
narration. Definitely it is not a category-A movie, if you want, you
can say it because of the actors. The real reason is the performances
from the cast was not noticeable. If one, one person had a strong hold
up on his role the movie might had clinched its success. Due to CGI
rule, actors are not getting a better scope for their characters.
That's very sad, but true. You can watch it for entertainment or
timepass, but not expecting seriously.

5.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
According to the guy next to me in the cinema "this movie is twister 2
, yea it is the sequel to twister" And while this is not the truth I
can see why he thought this, but to compare Into the storm with twister
would sell both movies short even though their similarities. 

Into the storm is an old fashioned disaster movie, one with one mayor
disadvantage to others in the genre, lack of focus, we see the movie
from different camera's and while this movie is not in the found
footage category but dabbles more in the fake documentary there are
just to many side lines and side characters to feel anything when one
of those characters meet their end. This lack of focus breaks up an
other wise solid entry into the disaster movie genre that was nearly
slaughtered with 2012. 

Into the storm Follows some storm-hunters and several villages of the
town Silverton, The head storm-hunter/documentary maker desperately
wants to film the inside of one and has a special tank like car for
that "The Titus" He is so desperate for the last time he managed to
film a tornado was a year ago , and as you can guess he will get his
fair share of them over the coarse of the movie. 

Another short side track was some other local storm-hunters looking for
youtube fame. These 2 men can only be described as cliché small town
folk, doing all sorts of crazy stuff. they are a little comic reliefie
that are not really comic relief but more obnoxious and bordering on
annoying. 

The 3rd side track is a Father who is the vice dean and his two sons,
one played by Natahan Kress .who almost seems type cast as a alternate
version of the role of Freddie Benson in Icarly, but he does play his
roll well, The father and older brother felt a little stiff to me. The
Father has his sons document a time capsule on video for school and
apparently some of the Town too, it is never explained why. The father
also has the dean that is like usual a stiff prick and in the short
moments he is in the movie was also a little stiff. 

This older brother takes up a portion of the 4th side track where he
and the girl he has a crush on go to a abandoned paper factory so the
girl can shoot a video to replace one she had lost, as she is caring
for the enviorment, 

What i was happy to see is that there is not a overall enviormental
message in the movie, even though the movie seemed to steer to one with
the back and forth between the oldest son and the girl.

The best Actors in the movie are the tornado's the twisters, they look
more realistic then the ones we saw in twister and that might throw
some people off as they do not look as good as the ones in twister. 

The movie tends to fall flat in the more calm scenes where we learn
some things about the mother of the sons, but as we don't really
"bond"With them , the info felt more as a filler of plot holes then
actually helping with the plot.

The movie does not really surprise, and does what it is supposed to do,
give use 89 minutes to enjoy and see mother nature "Rip us a new one"

This is why i ranked the movie 7 stars, it does what it promises and
gives you a good time, and a good old fashioned Disastermovie that
doesn't get preachy and is not stretched to thin, the short running
time was one of my main concerns but the movie is just long enough for
it to stay entertaining. 

So if you want 89 minutes of entertainment Into the storm is the movie
for that rainy night, the tornado's come best to their right on the big
screen but for a movie i would suggest get it on netflix.
<|_=00=_|>
After watching the trailers, I wasn't expecting a lot from this film as
I walked into the theater. To my surprise, though, this film was
actually much worse than I expected it to be. Overblown CGI, poor
camera-work, mediocre acting and a story plot that is so unorganized
and campy that it leaves you wondering who even approved it, or why,
for that matter. The rednecks were also a waste of time in this
film...trying to be funny by doing stupid stunts and also assuming the
role of "amateur" storm chasers. I was not surprised that they died. It
seemed like a cheap rip off of "Twister" where Jonas and his crew also
get sucked up by a tornado as well. In any case, I personally felt that
the writers only added the rednecks so as to add to the overall running
time of the film, which wasn't long by the way. They failed big time
here.

However, what this film does succeed in is in the visual effects
department. Granted, there are a few "twisters" that come out of
nowhere in the film that look totally unrealistic compared to the real
thing, but just as the characters are in a situation like this makes it
feel like you're really there with them. Although not a masterpiece,
I'd at least recommend seeing this film in an IMAX or similar setting
so as to get the most realistic experience when going to see these
types of films. As for a film to watch again and again, I wouldn't
really say so. 

Lastly, I was also surprised that Richard Armitage, a.k.a. Thorin from
the Lord of the Rings and Hobbit epics, decided to take this film, as
he seems terribly miscast here, not to mention that it is a big step
down from what he normally has done in his career. Oh well, at least
he'll be back in the final Hobbit film, which I'm sure will be much
better.
