
Sometimes I just don't understand so-called professional critics. I
really don't. You give them a very good movie and they complain that it
wasn't a lot better than it was. It's like they're going out of their
way to be negative. That bothers me and that's why I prefer to call
myself a movie "reviewer". I'm just someone who loves movies, sees a
lot of them, knows a bit about the industry and wants to use my
experience as a writer to discuss movies in a way that others might
enjoy and find useful  and from a movie fan's perspective.

I'm only out to answer one question when I review a movie: Was it
entertaining? If I feel it was, I recommend it, giving it a grade in
the "A" or "B" range, depending on how entertaining it was. If it's not
very entertaining, or just bad, it gets a "C" or "D". And if the movie
is out-right horrible, it gets an "F". Simple, right? Well, "Self/less"
(PG-13, 1:56) isn't going to change the world, but it is interesting,
fun, thought-provoking and well-made. It is, simply stated, a very
entertaining film. What more do we need in a movie? Underneath all its
action and intrigue, this movie asks how important a person's life is
and at what cost a specific person's life should be preserved. Oscar
winner Ben Kingsley plays Damian Hale, a New York City real estate
tycoon who is dying of cancer. Like most people, Damian is more than a
little unnerved by the reality of his imminent demise, but, unlike most
people, he has the ability to do something about it. He becomes aware
of a very expensive and very secretive process by which his
consciousness can be implanted into a younger man's body, enabling
Damian to survive, enjoy life and contribute to society for another 50
years or so. He's rich enough to afford it and arrogant enough to think
he deserves it.

Professor Albright (Matthew Goode) tells Damian that each body is an
"empty vessel" grown in the lab. The body that Damian is given to
inhabit looks a lot like Ryan Reynolds. The transition from his old
body to his new body (called "shedding") is disorienting. Damian's mind
has to get used to seeing a different reflection in the mirror and must
learn to adjust to his new physicality. Albright puts him up in a
luxury apartment near Albright's New Orleans facility in order to
monitor the progress of Damian, Version 2.0. Albright also gives the
new Damian red pills to help him suppress upsetting and reoccurring
visions. Albright calls them "hallucinations" and says that they're a
common side effect of the shedding process, but Damian says the visions
feel more like memories. Hmmm.

As the story unfolds, Damian learns to make new friends, but keep the
old. In his temporary digs in the Big Easy, he starts hanging out with
a guy named Anton (Derek Luke). Damian also gets reacquainted with two
very different women from his past (played by Michelle Dockery and
Natalie Martinez) and has to reach out to an old friend and colleague
(Victor Garber) when things get complicated. A sci-fi drama becomes a
mystery, a psychological thriller and an action movie with several
twists and turns. "Self/less" is part "Invasion of the Body Snatchers",
part "The Bourne Identity" and a little bit of "The Matrix". There's a
lot going on to keep you entertained while you're thinking deep
thoughts about the story's bigger issues.

Some critics fault "Self/less" for becoming too much of an action movie
and failing to more fully exploit the plot's intriguing set-up. But I
have a feeling that if they got the movie they say they wanted, they'd
have called it boring. This is an original, exciting film that is very
well-acted, well-paced (by director Tarsem Singh) and well-plotted (by
screenwriters David and Alex Pastor). The moral issues are never far
from the moviegoers mind, and are still there to be considered after
some of the movie's more frenetic moments have faded from the screen. A
movie doesn't have to be completely original to be thought-provoking
and entertaining. "Self/less" is both  and more. "A-"
<|_=00=_|>
Damian(Ben Kingsley) a self made billionaire discovers he is dying, and
does have much longer to live, discovers a secret facility that can
transfer his soul into a younger body(Ryan Reynolds), when the transfer
is a success, Damian really begins to enjoy his new life in his new
body, but soon realizes that his new life will have a price to pay.

I'm surprised that I liked this, I went expecting this to be bad, but I
was amazed on how intriguing it kept me. It shows on we deal with dying
and immortality, and things we must learn to face in life. Ben Kingsley
was good, and Ryan Reynolds really surprised me. Matthew Goode was
incredible. It does have some good action scenes, and great sci-fi
element. Everybody gives a good performance here, and it does what
sci-fi should do, kept you intrigue.
<|_=00=_|>
This IMDb synopsis is accurate and a good starting point: Billionaire
Damian Hale has terminal cancer. He turns to a radical medical
procedure called "shedding," in which his consciousness is transferred
to a healthy body. After the procedure, Damian, now called Edward,
starts a new life in New Orleans but is plagued by disturbing images.
When he delves into Edward's mysterious origin, he learns that some
will kill to keep it secret.

My buddy and I, both long time film buffs of multi-genres yearn for
decent sci-fi thrillers that are well written and directed, leave us
guessing here and there via plot twists and turns, includes necessary
action, murder and mayhem and a credible Mr. Evil. This film delivers
116 minutes of story, acting, production value and pure cinema sci-fi
thrilling FUN.

We were both thumbs-up entertained by one of Ryan Reynolds best efforts
plus a fine supporting cast including Mr. Evil (Albright). Our usual
post film discussion of plot holes was minimal given the original, well
crafted screenplay. That is not to say we did not suspend belief as is
the case with many of our best action/Sci-Fi films. A major section of
the film, with some of its best action sequences, reminded me of my
favorite scenes in Bourne Legacy. 

With all the above said there was yet room for disturbed, romantic
relationships and one cute kid spitting out all her needed lines. 

Production value gives us some fun shots of New Orleans, area mansions
and a finale 'home' in a spectacular locale.

There have been so many mind invasion/transfer films that our
expectations for something original with thrills, excitement and pathos
were low. We left the theater smiling for the simple reason that we
were both thoroughly entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
Even know this movie might not seem amazing to most people now, I can
guarantee that in about a decade or even less, the movie will gain a
following and it will be big! Absolutely great! We need more movies not
based on any books, comics, movies, games, anything, just original
ideas is what we need! This is a fantastic film! There are a few flaws
in it though, but I do not want to spoil the film. Ryan Reynolds gives
a very good performance in the movie, Ben Kingsley also does, everyone
gives a good performance except whoever played the mom. Just wait,
there will be a following for this film, there will be t-shirts and
merch for this movie years from now when more people are seeing it, it
should not have been released in Summer, where it is going to get
killed, should have came out in September or October.
<|_=00=_|>
Billionaire Damian Hale (Ben Kingsley) is on top of the world until he
runs into a problem he can't solve, Cancer. His only hope is a new
medical procedure called "shedding," in which his consciousness is
transferred to a healthy body. After Damian undergoes this procedure,
he becomes a man named Edward (Ryan Reynolds). Once he attempts to
start a new life in New Orleans, he starts to become ravaged by visions
of his new body's past. As he begins to investigate the origin of his
new body, he learns the lengths that his creators will take to protect
their procedure and keep their identities secret.

The film, I will admit, introduces an original concept that not many
films have covered. It's a shame that it does not stay with it for very
long. We start off with older Damian coming to terms with where he is
in his life and with his condition and then the film pivots to more of
an action film as younger Damian/Edward investigates his roots through
his visions and survive its resistance. It was a shame that more time
wasn't spent with the older version of Damian. This loss created a void
in the story. It would have been better if we could have spent more
time with him so his character could be more developed. From the little
we got to see, he appears to not be that great of a person. If we knew
more, we would have reason to root for him. The time spent during an
unnecessary sequence in the middle could have helped with that. There
is a lack of consistency in the character of Damian as well. The
character is played by 2 different actors but their performances are
not the same. There seems to not be any apparent, similar, alignment in
mannerisms between the two Damians, they don't act too similarly
either. That could either be because of writing, Ryan Reynolds'
performance, and/or not too careful direction. The film had the chance
to try to answer some philosophical questions relating to the value of
human life or the morality of valuing a life over. When you start to
wonder if this whole "shedding" procedure is even possible, you are
forced to accept that it is. Instead of being about Damian coming to
terms with his new body and life, it chooses the path of gun fights and
car chases. This is the moment when the film falls into the realm of
mediocrity. It isn't revolutionary. The twists will not come as much of
a surprise either. The film managed to keep my attention but I would of
preferred it to cover more of the philosophical issues relating to the
procedure. The film has a good idea but it could have been portrayed in
a different/better way.
<|_=00=_|>
Self/Less follows billionaire industrialist Damian Hale, who is the
master of his universe, until he encounters a foe that he can't defeat:
cancer. His only hope is a radical medical procedure called "shedding,"
in which his consciousness is transferred to a healthy body. After the
procedure, Damian, now called Edward, starts a new life in New Orleans
but is plagued by disturbing images. When he delves into Edward's
mysterious origin, he learns that some will kill to keep it secret. 

From the quirky mind of Tarsem Singh, we are brought a Sci-Fi spectacle
set five years in the future where immortality now exists with many
consequences, having a new body, you need to take these pills so you
don't have hallucinations or die. Essentially like John Frankenheimer's
classic 'Seconds', this film is still a merrymaking Thriller with
enough twist and turns to make everything intriguing.

Even if we get a introduction to Kingsley's character in the first ten
minutes, we all can agree that Reynolds portrayed him very ideally,
being in a young body again can bring some rather exceptions. Matthew
Goode, who basically plays the guy who doesn't set right with you, does
play a mischievous guy with many tricks up his sleeve that do come In
tack in the story. 

There are scenes at times where the story becomes a bit bland that last
longer than they need too and don't move the story along. There are
some characters that do bring blandness as well, they are a bit dreary
and don't bring enough pep to the story and are just caught up in this
web of madness. I might be nit picking but these are the only troubles
I had with the film.

The twists are hinted throughout and can be expected to be true but
there is some speculation that makes you want to see if you're right or
not. There are many stirring moments in the film from gun play, fist
fights and to a car chase, you make yourself root for Reynolds/Kingsley
to make everything a whole once again. 

Singh brings most of his usual flair throughout, directing such
charming sequences to keep you motivated for what you're about to see.
S/L may not be brilliant but at least it brings fitting thrills to keep
you going!
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw the trailer, I was expecting a quiet little sci-fi drama
about an old billionaire played by Ben Kingsley who gets the
opportunity to live longer with the purchasing of a new body, played by
Ryan Reynolds, and discovers his new body had a prior soul in it.

The movie gave me a little more than that thanks to who the prior soul
belong too and the large amount of trouble the creator of this body
switching technique called shredding goes through to keep his project
low key, when the billionaire freaks out about steeling another man's
life. 

It was an action packed drama helped out with an incredible musical
score. It kinda has the same vibe as a movie called Limitless starring
Bradley Cooper and Robert DeNiro. The Sci-Fi concept is different but
it's the same tone of coolness. 

Nothing in the movie is mind blowing, but it's very cool to watch and
very entertaining, so I'll recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
This is awesome science fiction. 

Wonderfully crafted.

By 40 minutes in I knew this film was absolutely fantastic. A welcome
treat among so many scripts that tend to walk the line of "the
ridiculously over the top."

Ryan seems to be winning me over with serious roles, more and more, as
he matures as an actor. He does very well in the roll that Ben Kingsley
gets started in a journey to achieve "Immortality." 

The fact that the film was shot exceptionally tastefully, had a great
cast, and contained a worthy script makes it a shoe in for a good ride
at the very least.

You should take it.

It's a return to what Science Fiction should really be. A continually
changing bar or understanding of the universe as we "dare to dream the
things that might be within our grasps tomorrow."
<|_=00=_|>
I would actually give this title a nine if I myself were being biased,
and I can be because it's a rarity that I make it to the movies
anymore. I get pretty excited when I see something that I actually care
about and this was quite entertaining for me..most movies are relevant
to in different ways, so take that for what it's worth. I'm a movie
lover. I saw this film with the hopeful intention of walking away with
a little bit of a Born Identity kind of feel, something considered to
be at least surface entertainment and I was not disappointed and that
is an understatement. The action and story opener with Ben Kingsley as
the main protagonist was well executed, as was the claustrophobia
inducing transformation into Ryan Reynolds. One of the things I was
actually worried about from the preview wasn't even about the content
of the film but more how under the radar that I felt it would be in the
public eye. Ryan Reynolds is not by any means a bad actor and that's
his problem, with something so serious and Sci-Fi oriented we're almost
reluctant to even approach his ability to draw you in. We see his films
and usually know what to expect because he's so likable. Ever since
Waiting he's been hard to avoid, but nothing about his roles offer
anything compelling and that's not really his fault. I respect his
quest for versatility..I really enjoy his role in this movie,
actually..the things that are great about this movie really sparkle.. I
have to say the best part about this for me would have to be the
directing and the Music..my God, they really pulled of some wonderful
suspense...some moments made my skin crawl..they utilize an almost Hans
Zimmer technique likened to Joker's theme song in the Dark Knight but
it doesn't feel rehashed. It's a thoughtful cerebral thriller with the
fat trimmed away, it doesn't linger in too many places..the pacing was
great. There was not a boring moment and in fact most of it had me
cheering, mentally. I even like the ending, thought it was beautiful.
The only thing that bothered me was the closing shot of the film, it
was so simplistic that it was almost like man...dude, you could have
had a classic on your hands, most may not take it to that level but I
promise that it's at least likable to anybody. I loved this movie, it
had great potential and totally delivered the goods. Every punch, every
nuance counted and reminded me that the action genre still has the
chance to break some ground.
<|_=00=_|>
In recent times it seems like a sci fi thriller is a tricky movie to
master, and whilst I don't pretend that Self/less mastered it, it's a
very watchable and enjoyable movie.

'Billionaire Damian, a man responsible for enormous business deals, a
big figure with the ability to buy whatever he wants, but not the thing
he needs, a cure for cancer. Out with friend and fellow business man
Martin a card is slipped into Damian's possession, Phoenix biogenic,
with a message on the back of help. Damian attends and meets Professor
Albright, who explains the procedure on offer, Damian's living
consciousness can be transplanted into a new body, a body that's been
cultivated. Damian accepts and wakes up a fit young man. Albright
insists on meeting weekly, giving Damian the pills he must take without
fail. As time goes on Damian starts having disturbing visions, the
constant being a woman, little girl, and a pumpkin tower. Researching
the tower he is led to St Louis, where he discovers the truth behind
his new guise and the sinister Albright.

I really did enjoy this movie, the concept was a good one, it was a
clever plot. There were enough surprises and plenty of intrigue to keep
you wondering.

If I had one little niggle, it's that for me after the transformation
to Reynolds it felt like a different film, it didn't feel seamless,
maybe that was intentional, I felt they could have delved into the
transition a little deeper, it seemed to happen to quickly.

Lots of action scenes, really well directed, the effects were great
too. I wish Google searches worked so quickly for me, Pumpkin Towers
(All I'm saying. 11,300,000 results,) my he was lucky.

Brilliantly acted, Kinglsey naturally has gravitas, he's so watchable.
Ryan Reynolds was excellent I thought, I really enjoyed his
performance, Matthew Goode I thought was outstanding, managing to be
sinister without overplaying it. I love Michelle Dockery, but she was a
little underused, just a bit part.

8/10 Very watchable, surprisingly so.
