
Hilariously dumb and manipulative, it's entertaining on that level
alone, although scary in that it's so boarder line that you can't be
sure the movie was made with tongue anywhere near cheek, I'm inclined
to think not. That this movie is serious, that America needs to feel
like a scared kitten rescued by a big stack of muscles. That stack of
muscles is Dwayne Johnson and it's hard not to love him. He's kinda
good in this, I like him, even when he's part of this manipulative
propaganda. The special effects were nice. it kinda flowed, sort of, I
guess, lots of plot holes but why bother looking for them when the iq
level they're aiming this at is so low you're not supposed to notice.
The cheesy flag at the end gives you another good piece of cheese to
choke on. If we're going to go down we might as well go down stupid.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is absolutely terrible.

Imagine melting a 4kg ball of Edam, a 12kg slab of cheddar and 47 cases
of mozzarella, it still wouldn't be anywhere near as cheesy as this
piece of drivel.

I was dragged along to see it and for the entire time I sat there
wondering if this was some kind of sick joke I wasn't in on.

The effects were decent but lets be honest, which movie doesn't have
decent effects nowadays? The acting is absolutely horrific, the rock
has the acting ability of a disabled fox and I wanted the two English
toff kids to die every time they appeared on the screen.

The girl in it, although very attractive, has the personality of a
sprout.

Bah! if anyone offers to watch this movie in your presence please punch
them in the face.

The ending where the rock says something like "now we rebuild" and the
American flag unfurls in the wind made me want to spew my popcorn all
over the cinema floor.

Avoid at all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
My first experience in the UltraScreen®DLX with massive screen,
Dreamlounger leather reserved recliners, and Dolby Atmos immersive
sound with bass you can feel (it's true), was none other than to see
San Andreas. If you haven't been following my reviews this summer, my
goal is to review all of the summer blockbusters on cheap movie days
for $5.

My first surprise was that the seats are reserved. You get to pick your
seat, although there were few left to choose from when I arrived. The
second surprise was that the chairs are power recliners, so you just
push a button and wham you go back and your legs go up. The third
surprise was a smell I hadn't smelled in years, not since junior high
locker room. It was a mix of people who don't like to shower, don't
like to wash their gym clothes, and wet tile. Then a nice young couple
who dry humped the whole movie sat next to me and at least she was
wearing a strong perfume that mostly covered up the smell.

But I digress. What about this disaster movie? It features a family
(that apparently has no last name, at least not that I ever learned,
nor is there any last name listed for them in the credits, so I will
call them Family #1), a pretty family, an upper-middle-class family
that is going through a rather benign divorce and Emma causes trouble
immediately because she is moving in with a richy rich dude (who has a
last name, because he's Daniel Riddick), a thoroughly loathsome man
incapable of love except for buildings.

Ray is solid as a rock, he's something sturdy, like a real man, someone
you can cling to or hold on to no matter what. He loves his daughter,
Blake, very much, because he blames himself for the death of his other
daughter, whom we eventually learn died while rafting. You see, Ray is
a professional rescue-chopper pilot, so the death of his daughter is as
much personal as it was a professional blunder.

The main problem with this disaster movie is that Family #1 is split in
two groups, and there is no real belief that any of them will ever
actually die, although San Andreas does feature Blake enduring the
longest non-death sequence I've ever seen. In better disaster movies,
like the original Poseidon Adventure (it's unfortunate that I have to
clarify the "original" Poseidon Adventure) the protagonists are
traipsing and shambling through the disaster together, and they drop
like flies until the very end, when only a handful of the worthy and
fortunate survive.

The acting in San Andreas isn't bad, and it's not good. It's extremely
okay. Poor Paul Giamatti, who seems typecast as himself these days.

Things blow up, collapse, and fall apart real good. The special effects
are pretty amazing and realistic. It's nice to see so many Californians
perish as a precursor to the Great Water Wars of 2016. In fact, even
though Ray is a civil servant responsible for saving lives, he tries to
fly the chopper from L.A. to San Francisco to save his daughter instead
of trying to save anyone in Los Angeles or elsewhere along the way. He
_does_, however, trade a stolen pickup for directions to an airfield,
which I suppose is a fair trade and shows he's a Really Good Guy.

There is a bit of adventure. Ray commandeers trains and boats and
planes. Well, no trains. That would've been pretty cool to drive a
train through an earthquake. A simple oversight, I suppose.
Nevertheless, I sensed the feeling of excitement at the thought of
being in a real disaster, stealing whatever vehicles were around to go
wherever I wanted. And it's nice to see a lot of chopper scenes in a
movie. There should be more chopper scenes in every movie.

Forget the millions of Californians who died or were dying along the
way. All we care about are a handful of pretty, well-off people trying
to survive the worst earthquake in human history. We rarely see anyone
die, because they get swooped up or down or crushed. No bones, no
blood, no limbs flying everywhere. It's pretty WASPish death, as people
disappear in clouds of dust, never to be seen or heard from again.

Despite all the Californian death and destruction, Americans can be
jingoistically proud to see a final flowing flag confirming we are the
best nation-state on Earth, and we will rebuild it all for the next
disaster.
<|_=00=_|>
I read some of the reviews here and am wondering what all the negative
reviewers expected. Who didn't know this was a huge, costly disaster
movie? Who didn't know there were going to be many unbelievable scenes?
Who didn't know there would be some cheesy dialogue? 

Well, I, for one, enjoyed it. The last good disaster movie I saw was
The Towering Inferno, and you know that was a long, long time ago. It's
still my favorite disaster flick. San Andreas, of course, had much
better special effects. (several decades later, better effects, right?)
I thought the scenes of the destruction were amazing. 

We all know disaster movies usually focus on a handful of people in it
and this one was no different. The movie was entertaining for me. I
hope it is for you, too. :)
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of the worst examples of Hollywood smearing money on
something until a room full of idiots gives texted approvals.

A brave, muscle bound man rescues his soon to be ex-wife, who just
happens to be marrying a real Snidley McWhiplash billionaire played by
one of the dingus's from fantastic 4... by commandeering a coastguard
helicopter and basically doing whatever the hell he wants with it which
apparently is to fly over literally millions and millions of people in
immediate need of rescue to save his wife and daughter. Both of which
are horribly cast, plastic coated Californians lounging poolside and
enjoying the finer things in life and then... Disaster strikes! There
is no connection with these characters and you just don't care if they
live or die, I was hoping for the latter in every case.

Oh, and there's the "expert" quoting countless geologists from the
discovery channel who conveniently and of course, narrowly escapes
death dozens of times only to unfailingly "know" what's about to
happen, sadly, just after it happens. 

This is a perfect example of Hollywood, being Hollywood and should be
avoided by anyone who's been hollywooded before, which is anyone
watching this kind of crap over the last several decades. I would have
given it a 0 but IMDb, sadly doesn't give that option.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

You will pray for the Big One after about a half hour of this brain
dead special that makes Irwin Allen's bad Earthquake look like The
Godfather. Sometimes it simplifies things, as a movie reviewer, to
simply relay a typical scene that conveys the true stinking power of
the narrative. The Rock, laying the smack down on the Bay's candy ass,
is ascending a tsunami filled with debris with a supertanker looming
above his head. The angle of ascension is near the side of Everest, as
the containers begin falling all about him, he slightly swerves his
motorboat with that incredibly powerful outboard engine. You know, they
are putting it on the Orion Spacecraft; what power it has! Yes, the
water is so filled with debris you could walk across it back to the
city. Later, the Rock, revives his daughter about ten minutes after
cardiac arrest due to drowning; hey, now we know who wrote the
screenplay! Yes, young people, Earthquake was bad, I admit it. But see,
other than the requisite gear validation scene at AT and T Park, where
the Rock shows us not only can he steal other peoples' vehicles, fly
over thousands of helpless people who might need his freaking help; he
has a psychic ability to detect earthquakes. I don't know, maybe he is
constipated and his bowels are sending messages to his tiny brain? 

The rest of the entire film the giant city of San Francisco seems to be
uninhabited as The Rock's daughter takes those poor English people all
around to safety. Where would they be, you know, the people whose
Empire ruled the world for hundreds of years? They just need some
guidance, poor things. As in a series of movies too long for listing,
the great power of gender superiority guides her, intuitively, to the
moment where she almost perishes for the rest of the dumb asses who
lack her genius. Besides the ghost town, what you will notice is the
absence of all the injured, groaning, dying people like in Earthquake.
The director was forced to do this because we might get peevish towards
our putative hero if we noticed him blithely flying over suffering
people with that empty helicopter of his, that, earlier in this
classic, can fly perpendicularly. Of course it can! This is the Rock;
the laws of physics should 'know their role and shut their hole.' One
way narcissists deal with others' suffering is simply to erase it from
their consciousnesses. Here, the streets are vacant like the theaters
where this movie was playing at. We do not find the bleeding, impaled
and shrapnel filled victims; come on, that is such a downer!

The Rock is almost laconic the entire movie which is a good thing,
trust me. Look, I love Arnie's movies but the directors of the best
(The Terminator) had the wisdom to limit his dialog. After the usual
saintly husband enduring his philandering wife moment, whilst suffering
in pure goodness, we get to that irrelevancy: you know, the giant
earthquake? The bulk of the movie is the Rock and his wife flying above
all the chaos with an empty helicopter looking for their offspring. On
the ground, their daughter is still taking those poor dumb ass Brits to
safety; sometimes, they start to speak up, she shows them how
incredibly naughty that is. Please, just 'know your role', her
knowledge of geography is equaled only by that of electronics. Want to
know how bad this is? Earthquake has now metamorphosed into a
masterpiece after watching this piece of crap. The CGI is so over the
top and paired with empty streets, devoid of casualties, it intensifies
the absurdity to Monty Python levels. See, I may not be a geologist,
but if entire people filled office buildings fall to the ground, I
think this might hurt quite a few people, just my guess here. I am only
a philosopher, my bad. 

With the exception of the people at the Baseball park, The Rock seems
neither to really notice nor care about those other poor slobs who
might need his help. Hello? Hey, you up there with the freaking
helicopter could you possibly help us we are bleeding down here? See,
the city is empty because existentially you are looking through the
eyes of puerile narcissists for whom others' suffering and lives simply
do not exist. I found this far more frightening than the movie, believe
me. The characterizations are skin deep, the Rock seems in a coma for
most of the movie. The effects are phony looking and the aftereffects
utterly lacking in a scintilla of verisimilitude. One Simply Awful
Movie. Q.E.D.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is first for Californians then for blinder than bat people.

The first scene with the subaru and the blonde thats Topanga and Auzsa
canyon, yes they do crumble and they do eff people up, thats just
"normal"

San Andreas fault and Hayward Fault are about to go off any day
now..itll be 9.0+ so more or less what you see in the movie can turn
into reality, not as bad but bad enough...

so for us CALIFORNIANS that live in SF bay area we feel and understand
this movie, basically an EXAGGERATED example to wake people up and give
them an idea of how bad could it get, so we kinda know what will happen
and if you lucky to stay alive what should we do, i cant believe how
much production and work went into bringing idea as such on screen and
gotta say they did a good job, because if you use your brain its too
much details to capture and bring together, most people who rate this
bad are just ungrateful clowns...this movie is not easy to make unless
you are delusional from your couch as many people are.

I LOVED it on the screen in reality i hope it never happens here but we
all know its just matter of time.
<|_=00=_|>
In Los Angeles, the Fire Department Air Rescue pilot Raymond "Ray"
Gaines (Dwayne Johnson) will drive his daughter Blake (Alexandra
Daddario) to San Francisco since she has joined the university. He is
divorcing from his wife Emma (Carla Gugino) that intends to move in
together with her wealthy boyfriend Daniel Riddick (Ioan Gruffudd).
Meanwhile the researchers Dr. Lawrence Hayes (Paul Giamatti) and Dr.
Kim Park (Will Yun Lee) from the Caltech travel to a dam to check their
seismic studies and there is a strong earthquake collapsing the dam
that kills Kim. Lawrence discovers that the San Andreas Fault is moving
and will cause a huge earthquake in Los Angeles and San Francisco. Ray
needs to travel to help the victims from the dam and Daniel offers to
take Blake to San Francisco since he has a meeting in the city. Daniel
brings Blake to his office and while waiting for him, she befriends the
British architect Ben Taylor (Hugo Johnstone-Burt) and his younger
brother Ollie Taylor (Art Parkinson). When Ray is flying to the dam,
there is an earthquake in Los Angeles and he rescues Emma. When the
earthquake reaches San Francisco, Daniel escapes with Blake to his
limousine but the building collapses and she is trapped inside the car.
Daniel flees from the building and leaves Blake behind. Blake succeeds
in contacting her father but the cell phone dies. What will happen to
her?

"San Andreas" is a popcorn disaster movie, a genre that was usual in
the 70's, but with state-of-art special effects. Unfortunately, the
lame and corny story is ridiculous. Ray uses the helicopter to rescue
his wife and daughter and destroy it. He steals a pickup truck; an
airplane from the hangar; and a boat to save his daughter apparently
with no consequences. His ex-wife Emma resolves all her issues with Ray
in the middle of the chaos. There is no cell phone, but the fixed-line
telephone works perfectly despite the destruction and havoc. Blake, Ben
and Ollie save the film. There is a tsunami and Ray drives the motor
boat in the middle of the debris and possible survivors as if he were
in a race. In the end, love is beautiful! My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Terremoto: A Falha de San Andreas"("Earthquake: The
San Andreas Fault")
<|_=00=_|>
Opening scene - girl driving - 30 seconds later she's hanging off a
revine, her car ready to plunge into the abyss.

This movie is relentless - it is a hard-core disaster movie with almost
zero characterisation and 100% action-driven chaos with Hollywood's CGI
department on overdrive.

And it makes absolutely no apology for this - nor should it.

The fireworks kick in from the start and never let up - buildings
tumble, tsunamis flood, and heroic Dwayne Johnson, amusingly
invulnerable to any form of damage (the man doesn't suffer a scratch),
does his level best to save the day as a well-placed search and rescue
veteran.

Sure the water effects are a bit unconvincing (Hollywood still doesn't
seem to know how to create convincing white froth - it always looks
like what it often actually is; smoke) and there's no real need for a
'villain' in the story, but who cares.

This is Hollywood at its blockbuster best. A brainless loud thrillfest
which engages the senses (if not the mind) throughout.

Enjoy it for what it is. If you're watching it, you know what to
expect.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm usually all in for disaster flicks, and the special effects in this
one are spectacular (Colin Strause). There's an excellent cast as well,
led by Dwayne Johnson and Carla Gugino with good support form Alexandra
Daddario, Paul Giamatti, and Hugo Johnstone-Burt. However, I hope
you're not expecting any earth shattering (no pun intended) dialogue or
storyline, because the filmmakers here have taken every plot cliché and
hokey line of dialogue and thrown it into this movie.

All in all, this film, directed by Brad Peyton, with a screenplay from
Carlton Cuse, is just an escape filled with one tension packed scene
after another, but don't be surprised if you find yourself
unintentionally laughing out loud with some of the cheesy dialogue and
plot elements.
