
"Logically, when you talking' about folk music and blues, you find out
it's music of just plain people." Brownie McGhee 

Hardly-plain Anne Hathaway has a camera -ready head with a perfectly
coiffed pixie and larger-than life lips. Good thing because Song One
spends most of its 96 minutes caressing it while she moons over a folk
singer. Yep, it's a romance but still not a bad one. Compared to John
Carney's Once, however, it's a one note song. Considering it's
writer-director Kate Barker-Froyland's debut film, it's a winner for
her because of the promise it shows.

The Nicholas Sparks-like teary tropes are there: For instance, her folk
singing brother, Henry (Ben Rosenfield), is in a coma while her mother
(Mary Steenburgen) is eccentric and Franny (Hathaway) has been
estranged from her and her brother . Enter heartthrob folksinger James
Forester (Johnny Flynn), who sings sexy naturalistic songs and wins
doctoral candidate Franny's heart.

The good part of this clich√© is that the love grows organically, not
swiftly or too cutely. Although his singing is seductive and his look
shaggy handsome, he's playing down his charisma, and that angle makes
Franny too low-key and mom almost hyper when she's not quite that.

Jenny Lewis and Jonathan Rice's music is sweet and longing, accessible
for those not enamored of the folk genre. Unfortunately, the music is
frequently melancholic to the extreme.

The film's strength is the organic growth of the romance and the
organic neo-folk musical style that moves from street singing to full
house concerts with equal grace. The weakness, however, is that nothing
much else happens. For those who like authentic love stories, Song One
can be first in their hearts while the rest of the audience can watch
Walk the Line for some real musical drama.

"All music is folk music. I ain't never heard a horse sing a song."
Louis Armstrong
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very quiet and understated movie, which I surprisingly ended
up liking, but will most likely appeal only to those viewers who are
willing to be patient, as it's more of a mood piece than anything else.
It can be slow-paced and melancholic, for sure, but I felt that what
worked for me was the chemistry between Anne Hathaway and Johnny Flynn
that developed in the film, as well as some first-rate folk singing
from Flynn.

Hathaway portrays Franny, who's in Morocco, as the movie opens, working
on her PhD in Anthropology, studying Nomadic tribes there. Hathaway
still has loads of screen charisma, in my opinion, with those doe-eyes,
infectious smile, and lots of acting talent. One night, she gets a call
from her mother (Mary Steenburgen), in New York City, that Franny's
brother Henry (Ben Rosenfield) has been struck by a taxi while crossing
a Brooklyn street, and is lying in a coma in the hospital.

Immediately returning to New York, Franny holds lots of guilt because
they haven't spoken in six months, after having an argument when Henry
wanted to give up college for his music, as he's an aspiring singer and
songwriter. She finds a diary of his and begins to go to some of
Henry's favorite places to record sounds that she hopes when played
back to him in the hospital will help him come out of his coma.

Franny also finds a ticket for a performance by popular folk singer
James Forrester (Johnny Flynn), whom Henry idolized. She goes to the
performance and there is immediate chemistry between Franny and James.
I thought Flynn was also excellent as James, and both their characters
are quite reserved and laid-back. To me this was the heart of the
movie, as in a very quiet way the two build a relationship, even if it
may be only temporary.

In summary, I thought Kate Barker-Froyland, who wrote and directed this
film, and makes her major motion picture debut here, did quite the
credible job, although as mentioned it's not for everyone. Maybe I was
just looking for a change of pace from the frenetic and heavy dramas
that are out there, but this indie worked fairly well for me.
<|_=00=_|>
Anybody with soft spot for music and sentimental lovestories will find
'Song One' difficult to resist. It follows Franny (Hathaway), her
relationship with his estranged brother, and the unexpected romantic
tale that blossomed between her and the musician James, Forester. No,
this one's not new, we've seen countless others like this before, but
in its own ways 'Song One' strikes a chord, strumming its own rhythm to
make its charm carry a tune.

Yet the tune falls flat and runs off-key on moments when it's needed to
speak volume for every scene's emotional sentiment. Albeit earnest and
capable, the charm dispells, and what started as a haunting melody runs
out of tone and tangibility. Whatever genuine sentiment 'Song One'
holds in the beginning, or as a whole, the movie just falls behind
extra-ordinary. You would admire Anne Hathaway as expected, but would
look past her charm when drawn by the more evident flaws-- most
noticeably her seemingly missing connection with Johnny Flynn, her
character's love interest--pulling the tune off its proper rhythm.

'Song One', regardless of its emotional authenticity , stumbles upon
its musical journey finding the right tune it could keep. It has
beautiful beats and melodies to hum, but fails to turn them to
something audible. It's neither terrible, nor excellent, just plain
ordinary. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
How do you spell "Relief"? S-o-n-g-O-n-e! Finally... a movie that knows
how to be refreshingly real and not afraid to use it. Life is fragile.
I don't know of anyone who hasn't experienced an event that changed
their world in an instant. The movie's characters and story drew me in
from beginning to end. What's not to love about Anne Hathaway as she
struggles to let go and understand her brother's world rather than that
of strangers in faraway places? As Franny re-discovers her own love and
appreciation for the talent, passion and struggles of musicians, so do
I! Johnny Flynn? A truly amazing performance as a sensitive, sometimes
awkward and insecure artist whose voice and poetry speaks from his
heart to all who listen. Song One is a movie that will not be forgotten
by it's viewers. Unless you are an unfortunate soul in a coma, your
senses will be heightened as well as your sensitivity and connection to
the realities of life.
<|_=00=_|>
"You know when you have a feeling that you don't want to fade away, but
you don't really know how to keep it?" Franny (Hathaway) has removed
herself from her family and is living her own life. When her brother is
in an accident she returns home. She begins to look at his life and
what he loves. Attending a concert that he was going to go to changes
everything. This movie has very good music, the bad thing about that
though is that that is the reason to watch. The movie itself is a
little slow and generic. I really wanted to like this and tried, but
when the music wasn't going on you could tell what was going to happen
from line to line. I'm not saying this isn't worth seeing, but Begin
Again mixed story and music together so perfectly that it just shows
you need both in order to make a good movie. Overall, good music and an
OK movie. I give this a B-.
<|_=00=_|>
Director/writer Kate Barker-Froyland has offered up a deliciously
simple yet emotionally complex story of a family drawn together by an
unfortunate accident. Karen (mother), Franny (daughter), are forced to
reexamine their family status due to Henry's (son/brother) near death
accident.

Most of the movie/story is Franny learning about her brother through
his notes and songs and interest in other singers and places he visits
in NYC. Along the way through this path of discovery Franny meets and
falls in love with a folk singer her brother admired.

There are lots & lots of Anne Hathaway face closeups and lots & lots of
folk songs. I like Hathaway but the many closeups and folk songs wore a
bit thin. That's the reason for the 7 in stars. 

Otherwise this is a fine and thoughtful movie with excellent
photography and production values. Please be aware of the lighting
throughout as I do believe this is integral to setting the mood of many
scenes.
<|_=00=_|>
A pleasant if not especially memorable indie, Song One would have
slipped completely under the radar and off the grid if not for Anne
Hathaway, its star and producer. Hathaway's name alone - not to mention
her singing chops, as demonstrated to Oscar-winning effect in Les
Miserables - would have brought in audiences eager to hear her sing her
heart and soul out again about the horrors of life and men. Here's the
thing though: she doesn't sing (much), though her character does
experience quite a few ups and downs where the men in her life are
concerned. Instead, the film uses its frequent musical interludes to
sketch out a sweet if rather underwhelming story of family, loss and
connection.

Franny (Hathaway) is working on her thesis in Morocco when she receives
a call from her weeping mother, Karen (Mary Steenburgen) - Henry (Ben
Rosenfield), the little brother she barely understands and had stopped
speaking to after a fight, is in a coma after a car accident. Returning
home to take up a vigil at Henry's bedside, Franny tries to connect
with her brother through the music and musicians he loves. As she
retraces the path of her brother's life through tiny hole-in-the- wall
clubs across New York City, she meets and finds herself drawing closer
to James Forrester (Johnny Flynn), Henry's favourite indie musician.

You can't fault writer-director Kate Barker-Froyland for ambition. She
blends three story lines, each capable of carrying its own film, into
Song One - there's the heartwrenching family drama about how people
must try to survive when death hovers nearby; a quirky romantic comedy
about two unlikely souls finding each other; and a brooding treatise on
the vagaries of the indie music industry. She mixes and mashes up the
ideas and concepts reasonably well, as Henry's coma prompts his sister
to explore a world composed of song and lyric - one in which she
previously had no interest.

The first half of the film is grittier and grimmer in tone, buoyed by a
pair of sad, weary and very truthful performances from Hathaway and
Steenburgen - mother and daughter smarting at the thought of losing
Henry, while pushing each other away with all the love in their hearts.
The unexpected friendship that Franny develops with James also begins
in a charmingly bittersweet fashion - he turns up out of the blue to
strum his guitar at Henry's bedside, providing the soundtrack to
Franny's desperate pleas for her brother to wake up.

But Song One unravels a little as it goes on. Gritty gives way to
predictable, and it's hard to care as much when the family tragedy
takes a backseat to the unfolding romance between Franny and James.
This shift in focus isn't helped by the fact that Flynn, who possesses
a good singing voice, is a slightly blank presence on screen - he's
never outright bad, but it's hard to glean much of James' supposedly
sensitive soul from his performance, forcing his words or music to do
the job.

Speaking of the music: the score and original songs by indie rock duo
Jenny & Johnny are amiable enough - they've evocative, in parts, but
never so catchy as to be really memorable. The exceptions are Afraid Of
Heights, a cute little improvised ditty that nicely sums up the
relationship between Franny and James; Silver Song, a heartfelt number
that ties itself in quite effective, heartbreaking fashion into the
narrative; and Little Yellow Dress, which sports lyrics so strange that
the song threatens to jolt viewers right out of the film.

Like the deeply earnest clutch of indie songs that form its soundtrack,
Song One is a largely pleasant, if not entirely pleasing, experience.
The film hints at depth and layers that don't quite bear up under
scrutiny. At least Barker-Froyland doesn't descend completely into
mawkish predictability in the final frames, instead bringing the film
to a close on a sweetly tentative note that could hold as much grief as
hope. It's an ending (or, perhaps, a beginning) that makes the entire
journey worth it - almost.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Fresh off her Oscar winning
performance and infamous on screen haircut in Les Miserables, Anne
Hathaway stars in this infinitely smaller film from writer/director
Kate Barker-Froyland. A Sundance Film Festival entry, the movie winds
through the clubs, coffee shops and second hand stores that make up the
indie music scene in northern Brooklyn.

Ben Rosenfield ("Boardwalk Empire") plays Henry, the kind of musician
so enamored with his own folk sound that he is willing to play for
pocket change in the subway tunnels. Failing to adhere to mother rule
#1, Henry pays the price for not looking both ways prior to crossing a
street in front of a New York cabbie. Next thing we know, he is
comatose in a hospital bed. Henry's mom (Mary Steenburgen) beckons
wayward daughter Franny (Anne Hathaway) home from her worldly pursuit
of a Ph.d in Anthropology.

When last they spoke Franny and brother Henry had one of those nasty
sibling fights where angry words were spoken and no apology followed.
It's been six months and now a guilt-ridden Franny sits by his hospital
bed hoping for a shot at redemption. She soon discovers Henry's journal
and begins re-tracing his favorite hang-outs and bands. This journey
leads her to a meeting with Henry's musical idol James Forester (played
by Johnny Flynn). Lacking suspense, the story leads right where one
would expect ¬ñ James and Franny taking a liking to each other, Franny
discovers her own love for music, and the songwriting block that has
burdened James slowly breaks down.

The film is at its best in the musical moments. Flynn is a very
talented guy as a musician (not so much as an actor), and 5 or 6 live
musical acts make appearances as the story unfolds. Most of the quiet
scenes between Hathaway and Flynn seem a bit awkward, but not awkward
in the good way that leads to real romance. Connection and
re-connection are quite common in times of tragedy, as we are at our
most emotionally vulnerable state. The biggest issue here is that
everything develops just as we would expect ¬Ö no surprises, no twists.
Even the re-connection of Franny and her mother is a sweet scene where
Franny sings along to America's "I Need You".

Jenny Lewis (of Rilo Kiley fame) and Jonathan Rice co-wrote the
original songs used in the film, and as stated, a hand full of other
bands perform their own material. For a musically based romantic drama,
it does have a couple of really nice scenes, but for the most part, the
drama and romance lag the music.
<|_=00=_|>
Estranged from her mother and brother after a trifling argument, PhD
student Franny is photographing nomads in Morocco when she gets a
message her street musician sibling Henry has been left in a coma after
being hit by a taxi in NYC. She returns to the US to sit regretfully by
his hospital bed, thinking up ways to rouse him from his oblivion. She
soon discovers he admired another folk singer called James, and
engineers a meeting with the young fellow at one of his gigs. The next
day Franny is joined at Henry's bedside by this sensitive balladeer,
and the relationship soon develops a lukewarm romantic element. 

Unfortunately there's nothing remarkable about this unambitious project
- the acting of the two leads is adequate, but the narrative arc of
these characters doesn't possess sufficient vitality to make the film
memorable in any way. There are no surprises, mysteries or dramatic
moments as the gelatinous flow of this lightweight tale is broken up at
regular intervals by some forgettable songs. 'Song One' provides little
more than a slow-moving, low-key experience until it eventually arrives
at a predictable conclusion.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a woman whose musician brother got hit by
a car and became comatose. In the process of grieving, she becomes more
than friends with the brother's favourite singer.

The Chinese title of this film in Hong Kong is "New York Love Chords",
so I would be excused to think it's a romantic comedy involving music.
The film turns or to be a sombre offering, with Anne Hathaway and
Johnny Flynn saying sorry for each other on numerous occasions. The
pace is slow, and nothing happens in the film. Anne Hathaway is quite
good in the film, but I'm quite surprised by Johnny Flynn's portrayal
of a very shy, bordering on socially awkward musician. Not only does
his character appear lacking in confidence, he could not even hold eye
contact with the person he's talking to. I can't believe he's the same
charismatic guy in "Clouds of Sils Maria" that I watched just two days
ago.

"Song One" turns out to be a great bore. I wish I didn't bother
watching it.
