
It's as if John Wick is the savant janitor from Good Will Hunting, and
surprisingly, it worked.

What should you expect? It has flashes of John Wick action, but it most
certainly isn't an all out action movie, however, it also isn't
primarily a drama focusing on his autistic/accounting side of things; I
felt they did a really good job of combining both elements into a movie
that swings back and forth between the two.

I thought the acting was great all around; I found the plot solid and
enjoyable. 

Here is the bottom line: Yes, this movie is worth your money to see in
the theater. 

p.s. I'll be the first to admit I have no idea how autism really
affects people and how accurate it is or is not portrayed in this
movie; I saw this movie as nothing more than what it is: a fictional
story to entertain.
<|_=00=_|>
A thriller should be entertaining and smart, both of which The
Accountant is. Christian Wolff (Ben Affleck) is not Christian in the
traditional sense, but he is a wolf of a hunter, about as accurate as
anyone behind a telescopic gun barrel could be.

Yet he's a brilliant accountant at the same time, thank you, autism: He
has a savant's grasp of facts and numbers (think Dustin Hoffman in Rain
Man) but a serious deficiency in the affective and communicative
categories. Affleck plays him with a grasp of disaffection that is
almost humorous, in fact is with some of his straight-arrow responses:
"I don't guess," he says when queried if he had a hunch about the
perpetrator of a fraud.

You see, he is hired by all kinds of wealthy and criminal business
people and governments to uncook their books or whatever is necessary
to discover fraud or put the books in order. These jobs lead to
situations where he is wanted by bad guys or the IRS or whomever.
Wolff's legitimate, current job for a robotics company is complicated
enough for him to need several glass walls to write on (think Affleck's
buddy Mark Damon in Good Will Hunting), taking in hours what would
consume days for a host of professional accountants. 

And so it goes according to the thriller formula that the bad guys will
be on his trail, and he will be made vulnerable by a cute co-worker,
Dana (Anna Kendrick), who has some of his math savvy and maybe a bit of
sweet for him. The Accountant veers from formula because that romance
is of the "chaste-and-from-afar" kind, almost but not quite at the kiss
stage. It's pleasant not to be bothered by heavy sex when the
complications are of the cerebral, themselves the core of pleasure in
this brainy, but not too, action drama.

Unfortunately our autistic hero, trained by a merciless military father
to defend himself because dad knew son would always be treated as
different, slips into thriller stereotype, e.g. Christian puts down too
many hired guns at one time, albeit in the service of a noble
retaliation for a prison friend. Although the action is within the
parameters of the genre, it here feels overdone given the cerebral
contexts that otherwise provide plenty of thrills.

One of the joys of this film is to see Affleck show some acting chops;
he may never be like Dustin Hoffman, but he's memorably stoic here, a
long way from J.Lo and Gigli.
<|_=00=_|>
This film connected with me on so many levels. It delivered in ways I
was not expecting. I was laughing, cheering, crying, and ultimately
walked out of that theater feeling more than satisfied. I want to go
see it again. Something that is great about this film is that there are
things you will pick up on more clearly through a second viewing, but
it is not required to fully enjoy the film. Like I said in my title, I
can say without a shadow of doubt that this film is better than any
other film released this year. However, I will follow that by saying I
have yet to see "Hell or High Water". So it's more like 99.9% sure. We
will see how it holds up against the remaining anticipated releases. I
do honestly believe it should be nominated come award season. This film
is phenomenal and if you do not see this film before you die, you are
doing yourself a disservice.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a Ben Afflick fan but I am a fan of the 3Ds (doom, destruction,
and death) and I thought this was a 3D film. Yes, it is a 3D film, but
it is so much more. In reality the film is about family, and you won't
realize that at first.

The script is so well crafted this film should be used in writing
classes. I guarantee you will not know what's coming, and after they
hit you, they're going to hit you again, even better. Truly exceptional
writing.

The acting is also exceptional. Anna Kendrick, J.K.Simmons, and Jon
Bernthal really stand out, and for Bernthal it is a change of pace and
he carries it off very well. Jeffrey Tambor, John Lithgow and Jean
Smart do their usual good job.

You should see this film. I've rated nearly 5,000 films and only gave
87 a rating of "10". That's how good I think this film is.
<|_=00=_|>
Gavin O'Connor, the director of my favorite movie Warrior. Ben Affleck,
the once ridiculed but now stupendous entertainer. J.K. Simmons, the
distinguished actor from Whiplash. Jon Bernthal, the rising star from
The Walking Dead who's a known but yet still unknown actor, and he's
great by the way. John Lithgow, an actor who delivers uncanny
especially when he's the villain. Bill Dubuque, who the hell is this
guy, but he wrote this movie, and this appears to be his first major
project besides Robert Downey Jr's The Judge. I enjoy all of these
people's work one way or another. This movie has a good director, good
leading man, and an all-star cast. From the trailers, this movie seemed
like an intellectual movie about a young boy growing up with mental
problems, the boy grows up and becomes an accountant, through his work
he does business with shady characters, for some reason his clients
want him dead, but we know The Accountant is far more capable of much
more than they know. I was anticipating this movie based on all the
information I just provided. I thought this movie couldn't miss. Is The
Accountant a good movie? The Accountant is a good movie.

The direction of this seems rather simple, but as the story progresses,
things become a bit too complicated, and maybe not for the better. 

I understood the main story and what was happening. The subplot of the
movie is what threw me off. I thought the secondary plot was a bit
messy but yet still engaging.

The acting in this movie was excellent. I think Ben Affleck as Christan
Wolff is the best character he's ever played. Affleck's performance is
both engaging and mesmerizing. Everyone does their job here, but
Affleck steals the show.

The violence feels ultra realistic. I love action movies, but none have
felt as real as this in a long time. When The Accountant kills people,
he kills people, and it's not pretty.

There's a lot of jump cutting that's present here. This movie
constantly jumps from the past to the present without warning, but the
transitions are fluid.

The execution of the story at times feels tedious due to its consistent
jump cutting, multi-layered plot, and abundance of characters.

Each character gets their moment, and everyone plays a part, but it's
the coincidence that brings them all together.

I think this movie is trying to be more than what it is, and it
succeeds. The Accountant movie has a multi-layered engaging main plot
about mental illness in young children and how they cope with their
situations. The secondary plot is about The Accountant doing business
with the wrong people. There's another plot to this movie with J.K
Simmons and his story's compelling, but it lacks conviction.

Overall, I enjoyed this movie. The fight scenes and choreography were
breathtaking. The main plot was engaging. Ben Affleck delivered the
best performance of his career. Every actor played their part. This
movie suffers from sensory overload, but regardless, I believe that it
will stimulate not only intellectuals but white-knuckled action junkies
as well. The main plot, Ben Affleck, and the violence is ferocious.

Final Grade: A-
<|_=00=_|>
I have watched the Jason Bourne sagas for years. James Bond movies have
been a mainstay since I was in my teens. Ben Affleck, as an actor, was
average at best. With that said, I was somewhat skeptical when the
trailers were first released about "The Accountant". My curiosity got
the best of me. So I went to see it at a matin√©e. IT WAS SO GOOD!!!
Every question raised in this movie was answered by its conclusion. It
was so entertaining and creative. I LOVED IT!! The audience applauded
at the end while the credits rolled.

I had to go see it again, because I missed some nuances. When I saw it
the second time, again the audience (a different group) applauded at
the end. GREAT MOVIE!!!

I might see it a third time. Can't get too much of a good thing.
<|_=00=_|>
Christian Wolff (Affleck) has a secret. Behind the cover of an
unassuming CPA office, the otherwise resourceful and bashful math
savant works free-lance for some of the world's most nefarious criminal
enterprises in the world. Yemen, Pakistan, New York, London, no matter
where the man goes, there's simply no balance book too unclean nor any
employer too dangerous for Wolff not to find missing money. Those
recalcitrant enough to think he knows too much, end up at the business
end of an anti-aircraft gun.

Yet this is only part of the story of Christian Wolff, as hinted in the
puzzle-piece graphics of the film's brilliant trailer. One thing we get
to know almost straight away is Wolff is somewhere on the spectrum.
Asperger's, PDD, high-functioning autism; "I prefer not to put a label
on things," says Jason Davis's neurologist character as young Chris
(Lee) jostles in the background. Convenient; now we can assume Wolff's
abilities to uncooked 15 years of books in a single afternoon, kill an
assailant with a J. Crew bridle belt and find the works of Jackson
Pollock stimulating are all functions of his un- categorized disorder.

Now in fairness to the film, Hollywood hasn't exactly had a stellar
track record when it comes to giving autistic characters moments in the
limelight, even when they're being portrayed with a modicum of sympathy
or humanity. To give credit where credit is due, The Accountant does a
good job differentiating between the attributes of Chris's disorder
with the skills he has ascertained through years of tutelage from his
roughneck father (Treveiler). As exploitative as the film could have
been, I give props to writer Bill Dubuque for not making our entrenched
protagonist an autism powered super assassin but rather a gifted
assassin who also processes the world differently.

Yet the film also seems to want to add more to the soup adding layers
of espionage thriller dramatics, murder mystery reveals and oddly
familiar flashbacks which all seem to serve different masters. Much of
the film diverts attention between Wolff and blackmailed Treasury
analyst Marybeth Medina (Addai-Robinson) who is coaxed by Director King
(Simmons) to find the mystery accountant. The buildup in itself is
alright but the backlog of reveals and plot-twists culminates in one
fifteen minute exposition drop that capsizes the film like throwing a
brick at a miniature sailboat.

Meanwhile the mystery afoot in The Accountant involves Wolff's newest
freelance job which has him investigating biomedical pioneer Lamar
Black (Lithgow) and his company. While initially a mundane audit job,
Wolff finds himself in a web of intrigue that ensnares the company's
board of directors, a sinister security force and a salaried accountant
(Kendrick) who first uncovered the can of worms. 

Again, the mystery in itself could have worked if it lent itself more
organically to the character. Unfortunately the unexpected Michael
Clayton (2007) milieu only made me want to see Wolff's less legitimate
work all the more. It'd be one thing if Wolff was a pedestrian CPA with
Asperger's, who was suddenly thrust into a plot of corporate intrigue.
Yet knowing that the man has a clientele that includes terrorists, drug
cartels, the mob and a suspiciously quaint melon farmer, I kept
expecting bigger fish to come swimming up.

Overall, The Accountant is a skillfully done semi-decent thriller that
could have done infinitely better if it defined what it was early and
kept its focus. Is it a cerebral mystery, a ballsy action flick, a
family drama, a cautionary tale, a morality play, an excuse to commend
Ben Affleck's range; certainly it can be all. But sadly it settles for
being a knower of all and a master of none.
<|_=00=_|>
In this silly convoluted tale that seems to take place in a vacuum
somewhere in Illinois Ben Affleck's stilted acting abilities find a
home as an adult savant with autism. As Ben belts out his monotone
performance we are treated to some major heat and flash of copious
violence, ancillary padding and remarkable coincidence before it is all
put to rest with a touching reunion mid- massacre. 

Christian Wolfe (Affleck) is a brilliant numbers guy who has cooked the
books for some heavy hitters throughout the world. He has become
enormously wealthy (Renoir and a Pollock adorn his Airstream) but all
the money in the world cannot normalize his ability to communicate with
humans. With the Treasury Department chasing him for evasion he takes
on a legitimate payday with a Fortune 500 like company but they are
knee deep in a multi-million dollar skimming scheme and Christian has
to revert to his other specialties to win the day.

As Terminator with a CPA, Affleck's wooden Wolfe lacks the Austrian
accent but remains Arnold like in an All-American way. Besides being
brilliant around spread sheets he is also a superb shot with all types
of weapons as well as a karate kid, not bad for a child with a
handicap.

The most amazing thing about Christian though is his ability to hide in
plain sight while he wipes out poorly shaven baddies with computer game
efficiency while Treasury agents sit around and wax nostalgic about
their imperfect pasts. 

Director Gavin O'Connor directs with a heavy hand as scenes sink into
bathos, his entire cast, save for when there is action, looking
fatigued. Building his story like a sloppy sandwich you won't be able
to fit into your mouth with banal subplots he attempts to give the film
an emotional pull through flashback but the story stretches credulity
constantly while the abysmal climax of discovery and gore is so
dreadfully paced, the surprises along the way anything but, While it
does have its books in order for a sequel the Accountant, nevertheless,
goes bankrupt in no time.
<|_=00=_|>
Christian Wolff (Ben Affleck) is an efficient accountant that is
usually hired to find financial deceptions and embezzlement for
criminal organizations. His point of contact is a woman's voice by
phone and the means of payment are sometimes valuable paintings or gold
bars instead of money. Christian was an autistic child that received a
rigid military training with his brother Braxton from their paranoid
military father. The director of the Treasure Department Raymond "Ray"
King (J.K. Simmons) has been unsuccessfully hunting The Accountant for
a long period and he blackmails the efficient analyst Marybeth Medina
(Cynthia Addai-Robinson) to identify who he is before his retirement.
When the accountant Dana Cummings (Anna Kendrick) finds an embezzlement
of 61 million-dollars in the Living Robotics, Christian is hired to
audit the company by the owner Lamar Blackburn (John Lithgow) and his
sister Rita Blackburn (Jean Smart). The financial director Ed Chilton
(Andy Umberger) tells that Dana committed a mistake but soon Christian
checks the books and confirms the embezzlement. During the night,
Chilton is murdered as if he had committed suicide and Lamar finishes
the audit affecting Christian that have not finished his work. Soon
Dana and he are hunted down by hit men and Christian protects her.
Meanwhile Median finds his true identity and Christian is hunted by Ray
and the FBI. Who might be the person behind the embezzlement? 

"The Accountant" is an original and above average action film. The cast
has great performances; the screenplay using flashbacks is intriguing
since the very beginning and the plot point in the end is a great
surprise to the audiences. The ratings indicates that viewers usually
like this film that has elements for a good franchise. My vote is
seven.

Title (Brazil): "O Contador" ("The Accountant")
<|_=00=_|>
This is the 68th best movie from 2016 that I saw. It will only go lower
as I watch more.

This gets a low rank because the story is awful. Like really, advanced
awful. That's how awful it is. The characters are also awful and
annoying too. The "smart" autism feature doesn't add anything to the
movie as the mc is a gary stu anyway. Ben Affleck is also really bad
for his role. It's almost as he forgot how to act. Anna Kendrick still
can't act.

Only casual viewers who don't watch movies could find this entertaining
and "smart". I guess some connoisseurs can find some enjoyment in it,
but I only came to hate the lead actor and actress more than I already
did. There is surely over 100 better movies from 2016. Go watch
anything else and skip this. Even I can name 67 movies from 2016 that
are better than The Accountant.
