
Heck of a Western, I expected it would be good before I viewed it when
I saw Joel Edgerton had a major role in the movie

Edgerton can really bring it as a lead or support role. And he didn't
disappoint.

But I was extremely impressed with Portman. She has picked some stinker
roles in the past however she proved IMO she is no longer just the
pretty face and she has honed her craft to be a very good actor.

Blows my mind that IMDb is only giving this movie a rating of 5.9 I am
a big fan of westerns and I don't hand out high ratings with a whim or
fancy.

Good to see Ewan McGregor in a small role. I thought he nailed his
part, as well.
<|_=00=_|>
After years of a troubled production, Jane Got a Gun finally got to the
big screen, albeit in the month for cinema to dump their weak films,
January. Although for me, that may have improved my enjoyment of the
picture. I went in barely seeing any of the trailers or TV spots (were
there any?) and with barely any expectations, so perhaps that improved
my likeness of Jane Got a Gun. 

The film stars Natalie Portman, Joel Edgerton, and Ewan McGregor in a
production that once had names like Bradley Cooper, Michael Fassbender,
and Jude Law attached among others. I actually think the ending cast
turned out pretty good as Portman and Edgerton shared unexpectedly
great chemistry. I think the problem with the film is that I'm not sure
the film had anything new to add to the world of cinema. There isn't
anything special about Jane Got a Gun, but it is a well made film by
Gavin O'Connor. His last film Warrior, is one of my favorite films of
all time, and while it's nowhere near as good as that film, I think I
can consider it one of the first surprises of 2016.

O'Connor's choice of using flashbacks to fill in the gaps between the
years in which Edgerton and Portman are apart, was a mistake. We get
all of the character development we need in a few sit down scenes
between the two later on in the film. The ending is also an extremely
well handled shootout climax even if McGregor's character is very under
developed. Overall, I think this a solid entry in for the western genre
and O'Connor's filmography. But I also think that it doesn't feel like
a polished project even though it has taken years to get to the big
screen. There's plenty to like, including the incredible lead
performances, but there's also plenty to shrug your shoulders about. No
matter, I definitely enjoyed my experience watching Jane Got a Gun.

+Portman and Edgerton

+Tense finale

+Much better than expectations after a troubled production

-Still doesn't feel finished

-No need for flashbacks

7.2/10
<|_=00=_|>
To me, this movie makes a significant impression as it is being in our
age of fewer western films because it plays realistically like an old
authentic cowboy story used to be and supplies good scenery and props
too. Jane, played by Natalie Portman, is convincing in a woman's
perspective living on a tough frontier land where there is not much law
and even less sympathy. In her bravery she is not invulnerable, yet she
is believable as she perseveres through hard and traumatic times. The
man acting as her former love plays great in a role where the two
people need each other. The storyline could almost be seen as a love
triangle plot with some twists. This film raises the audience's spirit
as pertaining to the quality of Jane's character and her former
fianc√©e's. It is a well done, recent cowboy saga reminiscent of some
classic early westerns. The film has a good dose of action but one
needs to understand the fill-in information flashbacks to appreciate it
properly even though the plot is easy to grasp. It has a bittersweet
ending overall and I recommend the show to romance and western
enthusiasts as well as older movie goers.
<|_=00=_|>
Jane Got a Gun is a good example of what a movie can do for you if
you're going in with certain expectations, especially when they're of
an exceptional variety. In the case of this, the word 'troubled' is
putting it lightly for the production, as numerous stars (Fassbender
quit, Jude Law was briefly hired, as was Bradley Cooper, and Edgerton
actually had the role of the *villain*, not the sort of co-hero), and
the director (Lynn Ramsey) left while in the midst of shooting over
problems with the producer and a lack of final cut. It's the kind of
production that has 'disaster' as its mark, and that's not a fair way
to immediately judge a film, at least not initially. What if this was
the next superb western, in a time when there seem to be a good amount
considering how few westerns come out nowadays (i.e. The Hateful Eight,
Bone Tomahawk, and Slow West all in the past year or so)? 

So I went into this with an open mind, to see what is in front of me
(via Warrior director Gavin O'Connor) and left with the opinion that
simply... it's OK. Sometimes a little more than OK, and mostly thanks
to a game cast. The premise is somewhat simple initially, that a woman
finds that her husband (Natalie Portman and Noah Emmerich respectively)
has been shot and though she's tending to her wounds she realizes from
him more men are coming after him, so she goes and hires a man (Joel
Edgerton) who she used to know... actually in some intimate ways.

The movie has a flashback structure that is not really too new. Matter
of fact, by 2016 this sort of thing has become kind of tired; of course
the drama is meant to be this siege that develops at their home: they
can't ride away since Emmerich's Bill Hammond is too injured, so
they'll have to set up some things to make sure they aren't caught like
fish in a barrel when Ewan McGregor and his men come. But the bigger
issue is that the movie has just a lot of peaks and valleys as far as
compelling scenes; when people do pull guns on one another and there's
set-up with that we see (the plan to fortify the outside of Jane's home
with liquid explosives and such is clever), it's exciting.

What seemed to not work quite so well are the quieter scenes, where
confessions are made and that drama has to be tapped as to who did what
to who in relationships and the old wounds being scorched. There is one
really tumultuous sequence where Bill discovers Jane inside of what
seems to be a brothel (or it just is) and after he kills a bunch of
people she starts sobbing. Moments of high drama register but it's the
quiet moments that fall a little flat, or they don't register as they
should in a movie that depends on their quiet moments for impact. And
it's not so much the actors at fault - Portman and Edgerton are
formidable, and McGregor makes a fine figure with that mustache (a bit
of a chip off the Val Kilmer in Tombstone block), and one of America's
underrated character actors, Noah Emmerich, is terrific even as a lot
of his performance is post-shooting in a bed - but with the script.

Strange since the screenplay was originally on the "Black-List" (best
scripts produced that got submitted, across the world basically), and
Edgerton actually did work on the script too (whether this was before
the production problems or during I'm sure I don't know). It's hard to
know if it was due to the producers not allowing final cut - a big
reason why Ramsey left, which might have been wise - but as a Weinstein
Company release it seems a little fishy, like there may have been
better material that got left out or moments put together that don't
quite fit.

And yet for all these odd feelings watching it, overall I would
recommend it to fans of Westerns (believe me, I've seen weaker
offerings), and the climax is really solid. James Got a Gun has some
original moments, and yet wrestles with becoming generic at the same
time: bad-asses pulling guns on one another has been done for so long
and in such gritty tones. Maybe it's missing... a tiny bit of humor(?)
It's a strange movie to peg what doesn't work about it, but it's not
all bad. For all the hard times it took to get to being completed, I'm
glad it exists in some form.
<|_=00=_|>
I was unpleasantly surprised by the bad reviews that Jane Got a Gun has
received in the US by "experts". I'm a fan of Western movies and was
delighted by the high quality of this film. The photography alone
(superb) makes it worthwhile to watch. The dusty desert environment is
awesome, the costumes magnificent and the acting s excellent.The
story-line is original and Natalie Portman, as usual, extraordinary.

In my opinion, this film has captured the style of the best Clint
Eastwood westerns. Granted it uses the well trodden revenge plot, but
it does it cleverly and keeps the spectator in constant suspense. 

Those daft commercial critics of the film, probably did not like both
the story. But then, as usual, they were resorting to their pseudo
sophisticated, near sighted inane criteria. I enjoyed the movie
enormously from the beginning to the end. I certainly recommend this
film to those Western film addicts like myself.
<|_=00=_|>
I was among the lucky people to have seen the movie premier in Paris
tonight. Going in I was mildly excited for the film, wondering how much
of an effect the tumultuous development had on the final product.

Jane Got a Gun is interesting for sure but it's slooow. The first two
acts are desperately trying to built tension with a slow dead like
pace, and long silences, that only puts the audience to sleep. I
actually dozed off a few times. It's a shame because I think there's
something special about it. 

The story is good with a few minor surprises and solid acting. Even in
the long silences the actors were engaged and conveyed the adequate
emotions. Joel Edgerton and Natalie Portman have some great moments,
their performances are riddles by subtleties that make for powerful
scenes, ruined by shots a couple of seconds too long. The movie picks
up though, it come as a breath of fresh air, after slogging our way
through the first two acts.

So after all of the cast and recast of actors and directors what
suffered? My guess the editing because some scenes could have been cut
short while maintaining the message. Jane Got a Gun could probably be
one of those movies that will become a cult classic.

By @ericgarcy
<|_=00=_|>
Jane Got a Gun is directed by Gavin O'Connor and collectively written
by Brian Duffield, Anthony Tambakis and Joel Edgerton. It stars Natalie
Portman, Joel Edgerton, Ewan McGregor, Noah Emmerich, Boyd Holbrook and
Rodrigo Santoro. Music is by Marcello De Francisci and Lisa Gerrard and
cinematography is by Mandy Walker.

Jane Hammond (Portman) has to turn to her ex lover, Dan Frost
(Edgerton), for help when it's revealed that the notorious Bishop gang
are heading her way in search of her husband Bill (Emmerich).

It's going to be one of those films more talked about for what it could
have been than what it is. Changes in production staff were unbound,
from director, writer, photographer and some big name cast changes, it
was a production blighted and destined to be on a loser. It hasn't
helped that with it being a slow paced character based picture, and a
Western at that, the market for a fan base was already running low on
potential supporters. So what we left with?

It undoubtedly is one for hard core Western fans only, it's hard to
envisage newcomers entering into the genre for the first time, perhaps
lured by the casting of Portman, being won over to the point of seeking
out other classic Westerns of past and present. Yet it's got a lot
going for it, because if you have the want, then it may just take a
second viewing to fully absorb and enjoy. 

At its core it's a straight Oater of redemption, opportunities waylaid
by fate, and of course a good old good versus bad axis. Relying on a
flashback structure to set up the character dynamics, it can get a bit
disorientating at times, hence the shout out for a second viewing.
However, it may not be the perfect way to build the principal
characters, but they are worth the investment for there's a big
emotional pull there.

Having laid the foundation for the first two thirds of the pic, we
shift to good old honest violence, for siege read backs against the
wall, and not without invention, in fact there's much resourcefulness
on show, with Jane at times very much leading the way. The last third
pays off handsomely, even if there's the (arguably) inevitable sugar
coated candy to swallow as part of the final deal. Cast are dandy and
turning in perfs of note, though it needed more of McGregor's John
Bishop, because with what little he gets he does make a villainous
mark.

It looks terrific, Walker's photography bringing to mind the genre work
of Roger Deakins, with the New Mexico locations blistering in their
beauty, and while the sound mix for dialogue exchanges is a little
poor, the musical score is thumping in its tonal appreciations. It's
tricky to recommend with confidence even to Western fans, especially in
a year when "Jane" had to compete with the more rambunctious Magificent
Seven reboot, but give it a chance if you liked something like Slow
West, and you may just be pleasantly surprised. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
It's the New Mexico Territory in 1871. Jane (Natalie Portman) is
hounded by the Bishop boys after her husband Bill "Ham" Hammond (Noah
Emmerich) got severely injured by them. She gets help from her former
love Dan Frost (Joel Edgerton). She thought that he was killed during
the civil war and she married Ham afterwards where they got entangled
with the Bishop boys. It's a tale of lost, tragedy, and revenge.

The first half is a muddle of unexplained situations, and confused
flashbacks. The story finally gets some exposition in the second half.
There is a compelling tragedy but it needs to be told better and
earlier. The final act has good cold violence although it sometimes
isn't as cold as it needs to be. There is definitely a good potential
of a dark, stark western but it's too fuzzy.

First, this may have started with the wrong character. It should follow
Dan Frost as he searches for his love Jane. The audience can learn
about the situation along with Dan. Also the ending is too happy for
the tone of the movie. This is a dark revenge story and I would
probably kill off Dan midway through. That way would allow Jane to get
her killing on for the last act.
<|_=00=_|>
Overall, it was a good movie; despite a slow start and the amount of
back story that tried to clutter it. 

For a movie that had an astonishing - and rather disappointing - amount
of last-minute changes (Jude Law - and then Bradley Cooper - and
Micheal Fassbender both pulled out of the leading male roles; Lynne
Ramsay was also supposed to be directing) it is still a good film. 

The performances are decent, although it's really Edgerton, not
Portman, who makes a firm statement; succeeding in overshadowing even
Jane's big hat. Ewan McGregor looks out of place, but his acting's not
bad. None of the acting is bad; they're solid and professional and
Portman and McGregor both try to make their American accents work. They
barely manage, but it's nothing worth criticism. 

The soundtrack is awesome. Equally, the cinematography is decent and
shows off enough scenery and dust to ground a Western. The film is a
good twist on the genre's stereotypes and clich√©s. Its feminist
undercurrents are addressed and it speaks for the tragedy for women in
those times, but for all Jane's firm words, loose gun belt and very big
hat, she really is little more than a damsel-in- distress. The fact
that she has a child (two, actually) does give another firm twist to
what we expect of a Western, and yet all the backstory, etc, that was
supposed to serve as a emotional foundation for the mother-and-
daughter situation, was forced and uneven. Which brings me to.....

Some cons: Until more than about half-way, the film is tedious, slow,
and even rather quite boring. The flashbacks seem forced and cut
suspense away from the main story/threat. The whole story shuffles,
almost aimlessly, without much urgency or real threat since we're left
guessing for much of the first half what John Bishop and his boys
actually have against Jane and her family. That said, the story seems
almost afraid to show its climax ; quite literally, actually,
considering that the lighting is painfully poor at the climax. To be
honest, the film works best at its action sequences. The quiet moments
do little to evoke sympathy and instead are rather boring. 

I enjoyed it. Its climax was satisfying, however slow the start might
have been, and it's a decent film :)
<|_=00=_|>
.. a ranch and a bunch of other stuff (including something attributed
to men when they are fearless/a lot of courage). While many have seen
or rather predicted the death of the Western "genre" (some might argue
it's not a genre itself, just putting this out there), it's still alive
and kicking and this movie is testament to that fact.

Natalie Portman is a great actress and she saw something in the
character here, that made her want to play the role. It had to do with
both the toughness and the vulnerability of her. The script may be
predictable (the flashbacks give out bits and peaces, but you can put
it together far ahead of the time, so I don't think there are too many
surprises, except maybe for the ending), but you can't fault the setups
and everything the film does to portray what is going on. Some might
feel it's too long and there is definitely not enough action for
others, but those who stick with it get a nice story
