
Tammy features Melissa McCarthey as herself or so it seems. The idea
that we must buy into this woman gorging herself with Cheetos and
Doritos for the entire length of a feature film is utter torture. Tammy
just limps into gear, act after act, it feels like the same joke over
and over again. We get it, McCarthey is overweight and has a foul
mouth, we knew it in Bridesmaids, we knew it in The Heat, and we knew
it very well in Identity Theft. Why should we care to see it again in a
film that is, quite honestly, one of the worst films I've seen all
year? The answer is, we shouldn't. Tammy boasts a pretty good cast from
Susan Surrandon to Kathy Bates and Toni Collette, it has all the
ingredients to make a pretty good film...except its not. Tammy is a
terrible film that keeps us in first gear and never moves and feels
three hours longer than it actually is. The jokes are stale, the acting
is wooden and the plot is so ridiculous and unfunny, I'm surprised they
didn't make it a family drama. On my long list of problems with this
film, my number one is McCarthey. Now, I personally have enjoyed
McCarthey over the last 4 years, a couple funny movies and a great
sitcom, she is usually good. However, her performance as Tammy is stale
and boring. One thing in particular that really sets me off is the fact
that Tammy is portrayed as a complete pig yet she lives in a decent
place that is CLEAN??? I just don't get it. Susan Surrandon is wooden,
over playing the typical grandmother saying outrageous things all while
teaching her grand babies something special and witty. It doesn't
happen here. Quite frankly, Tammy is like a long and drawn out trailer
park adventure that teases an exit while you're on the verge of
insanity with every second that passes. Overall, stay far far away from
this film, it isn't even worth a rental. Even if you are madly in love
with McCarthey and you love her humor, you will still hate this film.
<|_=00=_|>
A great cast could not overcome a dull script. Random, ill developed
characters popping in and out of a storyline that was all over the
place. If we laughed more than a couple of times I'd be surprised. I
guess you could call it a drama-dy but it fails at either. A silent
theater during a Melissa McCarthy comedy? Say it ain't so! Oh wait...we
did laugh .... At my husband groaning about how awful it was. Sad
because I was looking forward to this one. I give it 2 rather than 1
just because it wasn't the worst movie I've ever seen, but I would
advise waiting for an out of theater option if you feel you must see
this because you love Melissa. It's pretty disappointing.
<|_=00=_|>
I can usually find some redeeming qualities in most if not all
movies... not so here. Tammy is simply not funny. 

The movie is poorly written, poorly acted and cannot be saved even with
the brilliant Kathy Bates and a bit-part by Dan Akroyd. Foul language
exists to try to boost scenes that are stone dead unfunny and it goes
over like a lead balloon. I was tempted to ask for a refund. 

Don't even waste your time watching it when it comes out on Netflix,
you'll be spared the bore-fest.

The IMDb has a 10-line requirement for leaving reviews but to be frank,
it hard to write 10- lines about a movie that is simply not
entertaining. I suspect that even hard core McCarthy fans will have a
hard time trying to swallow this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Comedian Aisha Tyler once stated that comedians should take the first
punch during their stand-up/hosting/entertaining performances. Making
fun of oneself is more amicable and less controversial than reviling
any group of people right off the bat. In my life today, someone cited
Melissa McCarthy as a comedian. I originally concurred with the
classification, but the more thought I infused into that labeling, the
more I dissent it. McCarthy is not Tina Fey, Ellen Degeneres, or Amy
Poehler; she began as an actress and continues her career as one. The
"comedian" excuse does not apply. 

In "Tammy", McCarthy does not only censure herself for the initial
stages of the film, but tries to fly the entire film on string of self
embarrassment. The saddest thought from my viewing of this film:
McCarthy is not only selecting roles like Tammy, but she's creating
them for herself. (McCarthy co-wrote the film's screenplay and is
directly responsible for the material she has to act out.)

McCarthy and Academy Award winner Susan Sarandon are faced with the
most screen time in "Tammy" and each contribute more as actors than the
script does as a narrative. McCarthy's hysterically brazen screen
presence is the film's true source of humor, but I can't help but
wonder if McCarthy would be open to revisiting authentic characters
like she used to portray in "Gilmore Girls", which would replace her
gimmicky, stereotypical roles like Tammy. Susan Sarandon, a goddess of
her generation, keeps putting herself out there in whatever script she
can get her hands on and we still pity her. As Tammy's grandmother, she
at least straps on her acting gear and succeeds with a few lovely
moments, but frankly her talent is not justified nor is it utilized
properly. 

For a project of such a low caliber, "Tammy" attracted a surplus of
remarkably talented actors for brief, unflattering roles. The roster
includes Gary Cole, Dan Aykroyd, Toni Collette, Sandra Oh, Kathy Bates
and Allison Janney (who took time out of her career best year on
television shows "Girls" and "Masters of Sex" to make time for an
extended cameo in "Tammy"). Maybe McCarthy charmed these award winners
with friendship to convince them "Tammy" was a worthwhile project. At
any rate, it looks like they all had fun.

At best, "Tammy" is a cute flick to see with silly friends looking to
laugh at things that probably would not be as funny if everyone
accessorized their theater-going wardrobe with their thinking caps.
McCarthy owns her figure and the expected judgment, but what makes
"Tammy" funny is the facial expressions and enunciation McCarthy uses
when reciting witless lines of dialogue. Especially in the film's first
act, "Tammy" did acquire some laughter on my behalf. (Now whether I was
laughing with it or at it is another story...)

At worst, the film is nothing more than an hour and a half of McCarthy
making an a$s out of herself. Unclear and unrealistic characterization,
expedient character growth for the leading goon, erratic moments of
failed poignancy, and poor writing that almost feels like comedic
improvising are some of the many wretched qualities present in the
film. McCarthy and her husband Ben Falcone, the co-writer and director
of "Tammy" shoot blank after blank from their comedic firearm. 

* / * * * *
<|_=00=_|>
After hearing and reading so many negative reviews, I didn't expect
much. But I highly enjoyed myself. I cracked up laughing many times and
so did the others in the theater. I went to an early morning movie
expecting to see few people because of the time and the bad reviews.
The theater was packed! After the move was over people were quoting it
and laughing. This is a funny road trip movie. Tammy as had a very bad
day: hit a deer and damaged her car, got fired, and walks in on her
husband cheating on her. So she decides to take off. Her grandmother
invites herself to go along. Tammy's ignorance of some things and her
grandmothers drinking problem, make for lots of laughs. I say people
give this movie a break, this was not going for an Oscar. It was made
to be a laid back, funny summer movie. Go in to this not expecting
award winning material and you will enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been a huge supporter of comedic actress Melissa McCarthy so far,
but this may be the break. I'll probably give her more chances, but
this one's a bit of a flop. It's mostly due to the script, but it was
written by McCarthy and her husband Ben Falcone (who also directed).
They really needed some help with their script. Frankly, the movie is
largely plot less, never getting its story off the ground, and, worst
of all, it's laughless. Identity Thief had a pretty awful script, too,
but at least it brought the funny. The biggest problem here is that the
story, as they have written it, should have been a dramedy. Instead,
McCarthy and Falcone are not brave enough to embrace the dramatic
aspects of the script. They're dead-set on making a stupid, slapstick,
R-rated comedy, and they aren't going to let the audience feel any
genuine emotion. Tammy begins with the protagonist (McCarthy) getting
fired from her crappy, fast-food job only to go home and find her
husband cheating on her. She walks a few houses down to her mom's
house, swearing she's going to just leave. Her alcoholic grandmother
(Susan Sarandon) is sick of it at her daughter's house, too, so she
decides to bankroll the operation. This movie would suck a whole lot
more without Sarandon. She's actually quite excellent, and has some
complexities (she's a major alcoholic, for one). What this movie needed
to be about was the two of these people bonding. It has a certain charm
when the two women are interacting. The problem is, neither of them is
given enough background to characterize them. Every time they seem to
be getting somewhere with either of the characters, like I said before,
it feels like they get too afraid the audience might start to feel an
emotion so they have Melissa McCarthy crash her jetski or something.
And, again, like I said before, some of this crappiness in the script
could have been alleviated if the film were just ever funny. There's
one sequence, where McCarthy has to rob a fast food restaurant, which
provides some laughs, but the entire sequence was played in the
trailer. Since it was the only really funny sequence, I can't blame
them. McCarthy's brazenness was funny in her last two movies, but she
kind of cranks the obnoxiousness up to eleven, particularly near the
beginning. Oh, and then there's the love interest, Mark Duplass. Man,
are they ever unsure that they should allow him to have a romantic
relationship with the overweight protagonist. Duplass himself always
has a look on his face which says, "This is to fund my next mumblecore
project," and the character only seems to exist to stand there and tell
McCarthy that she's okay. He's very much equivalent to the
personality-less, female love interests in every other movie that's
been released this summer, except they seem to not be able to bring
themselves to let the two form a romantic relationship on screen.
<|_=00=_|>
It's films like these that make me ask 'Why do
directors/producers/writers try and fill comedies with sentimental
claptrap?'If they want to make a comedy they should make something
funny. If they want to make a tear-jerking drama about a granddaughter
struggling with her lifelong string of failures and her grandmother's
alcoholism then they should release all the stops and make something
truly tragic.

Tammy tries to do both and therefore fails twice.

Melissa McCarthy is a hilarious actor and there are moments of
brilliance in this film however they are separated by long periods of
sentimentality for which i did not sign up.

I hope her next film is a bigger success.
<|_=00=_|>
.... take a road trip and get a lesson in love & hate!

This flick isn't as bad as so many reviews are claiming!! It's another
in a long list of 'life lessons learned while on the road movies' with
plenty of (not guffaw moments) but plenty of light hearted laffs and
chuckles.

Melissa McCarthy knows she has created this bloated sassy bitch with a
kind and well meaning heart character, and she is taking it to the box
office to cash in because plenty of people think she's funny. In
'Tammy' she has plenty of Hollywood names around her .. Susan Sarandon
and Kathy Bates being most prominent and doing their role well.

As a simple comedy it works fine. I don't think for one moment there is
some meaningful message so many viewer seems to be seeking. It's just
Tammy & granny hitting the road because they are tired of their daily
routine and seek something different .... in Niagara Falls ... and they
find their goal. And tear-up plenty of stuff on the way!

It's a good movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm very surprised at all the negative reviews this film has received
as I believe those who rated it negatively aren't accepting the movie
for what it is. It is your typical Melissa McCarthy movie and for me
that is a good thing. Her character in this film is almost identical to
her character from "Identity Thief" but I don't have a problem with it
like others do as I feel that is her comedic strong point. She isn't
afraid to go that extra mile for a laugh. If you're on the fence on
whether to rent or buy this movie just ask yourself if you liked her in
Bradesmaids and Identity Thief and if your answer is yes, you will not
be disappointed with her performance here.
<|_=00=_|>
Melissa McCarthy has risen to the forefront of female cinema comics,
and I want to believe she deserves her place. Is she a better
comedienne than Tina Fey, Amy Pohler, or Jenny Slate? No. She has
secured her place ever since Bridesmaids as a potty-mouthed plus size
who throws her weight and mouth around the screen like a weapon
threatening anyone who thinks she is not comical.

She's not always so, at least in Tammy, in which she plays an
underachieving rebel losing her fast food job and taking to the road
with her grandmother, Pearl (Susan Sarandon), to escape that job loss
and the loss of her husband, Greg (Nat Faxon), to neighbor Missi (Toni
Collette). 

Thelma and Louise this Tammy is not: Besides the regularity of curse
words (McCarthy is one of the writers) that substitute for wit, the
insults to seniors and fast-food workers are gratuitous. Tammy's 38
days in jail are treated like a light diversion, not the result of a
serious fast-food robbery. I must remember, however, not to apply
standards of common sense to comedy.

So it seems the writers have a difficult time deciding what tone--
between the comedy about a rotund lady on the lam and the serious issue
of alcoholism. It seems they wanted both hilarity and poignancymostly
they have neither.

One need look only at much better writing in other contemporary buddy
films like the Jump Streets, where Channing Tatum and Jonah Hill have
lines that bite and soothe and a chemistry that Sarandon and McCarthy
strive for but don't always achieve. Butch Cassidy and The Sundance
Kid's chemistry and wit are superior, so too Sarandon and Davis in
Thelma and Louise, and by the way, McCarthy and Bullock in Heat. 

However, McCarthy suffers by comparison with heavyweights like Latifa,
Kathy Bates, and maybe Roseanne Barr, who is a more direct comparison
and at times better able to show range.

Susan Sarandon's portrayal of the alcoholic grandma is rarely humorous
or poignant. Her flirting with a guy of a certain age is a good bit for
her youthful old age, but the connection is forced under the umbrella
of cute for an oldster. 

Tammy is not a keeper in the buddy genre; perhaps McCarthy will engage
Bullock again for a better brand of banter.
