
One of the better action movies I've seen in a while. Great characters
- great acting and interesting story line. I really liked this film and
I don't understand why this movie does not get better reviews. unlike a
lot of the popular glitzy action films, this one leaves a memory of
what it was really about. The camera work was great and incorporated
some of the best and most believable action scenes I have experienced.
The language was fitting and not overpopulated with Fbombs. The story
line is easy to follow. The soundtrack is appropriate without a lot of
unnecessary crashing and banging, or a way over the top, or
overpowering soundtrack. Definitely a good film.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this because I found out last minute that "It Follows"
was only limited release and I'M GLAD I DID! When you go see "Taken 2"
or "Walk Among the Tombstones" you expect crazy action which you
definitely get with Run All Night. But what you're not expecting is
above average story and acting. There was great suspense with solid
characters that you start to care about. There's some larger than life
feats that Liam pulls off as usual, but it's done well.

Giving it a 9 out of 10 might be a little high, but I feel it deserves
bonus points for surprising the heck out of me and breaking the recent
trend of over the top Liam movies.

Don't wait for video on this one; it's a wild ride for the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
Before you dismiss the latest Liam Neeson action movie 'Run All Night'
as yet another iteration of 'Taken', let us reassure you that there is
much more to this mob thriller than meets the eye. True, Neeson plays a
former man of violence with a 'particular set of skills' who is forced
to employ them in order to save his family, but that's about where the
similarities end. Indeed, while that franchise never quite had any
ambition than as a glorified B-movie, this latest team-up between
Neeson and his 'Unknown' and 'Non-Stop' collaborator Jaume Collet-
Serra proves itself as an impressive amalgamation of the Oscar-
nominated dramatic skills on which his earlier career was built on and
his more recent kickassery.

Brad Inglesby's script starts by giving us a glimpse of Neeson after
the fateful events of the titular evening  that is, lying in a forest
and bleeding from a shotgun wound  before rewinding sixteen hours
before to fill us in. As we soon learn, Neeson's Jimmy Conlon wasn't in
a much better state before his most recent run-in with mob boss and
childhood friend Shawn Maguire (Ed Harris) that had led to his current
predicament. An alcoholic mocked by the denizens at the local pub for
farting in his sleep, the former Brooklyn hit-man was once Shawn's
trusty right-hand man, but has now been reduced to playing Santa at the
latter's son's birthday party for quick cash, which he spends drowning
his guilt over the people he has killed and the family he has alienated
through the years.

As bad luck would have it, Jimmy's estranged son, Mike (Joel Kinnaman),
who only wants to take care of his pregnant wife and two young kids and
to have nothing to do with his father, stumbles upon Danny executing
two Albanian drug dealers. When Danny turns up at Mike's house, Jimmy
intervenes to save his son and ends up killing Danny, setting in motion
the subsequent series of events which will see father and son move
through New York City while being pursued by Danny's men  including a
professional assassin named Price (Common) who has his own grudge with
Jimmy  as well as crooked cops looking to stay on Shawn's payroll.

Rather than just skip to the chase, Collet-Serra and his screenwriter
Inglesby invest in a more character-driven narrative than may be
expected. A pivotal scene has Jimmy confessing to Danny's murder
shortly after Shawn returns from the morgue to identify his son's body,
which poignantly expresses not just one father's grief (and consequent
thirst for revenge) from the death of his son but also another father's
paternal instinct to protect his family by whatever means possible.
Whereas 'Taken' (pardon the pun) the latter for granted, Collet-Serra
wisely lets the polarising dynamic between Jimmy and Shawn define the
conflict that ensues, giving both characters and their longstanding
friendship turned brutal rivalry both shading and nuance.

Lest it be forgotten, Neeson and Harris are both accomplished actors in
their own right, and both manage to find their characters' empathetic
core. Collet-Serra understands Neeson's 'particular set of skills' in
playing the fallible hero, and gives his lead actor space and breadth
to explore his character's vulnerabilities and motivations  even
bringing in an unbilled Nick Nolte to add patriarchal weight to the
proceedings. Kinnaman doesn't get enough quiet scenes with Neeson for
their father-son relationship to develop into something truly
compelling, but the actors share a good rapport that give the action
scenes added emotional texture.

And in that department, Collet-Serra doesn't disappoint. Reining in the
hand-held shots that made the last 'Taken 3' an absolute nightmare to
watch even on the big screen, Collet-Serra fashions a couple of
impressive sequences that make full use of its New York locale. A
thrilling cop-car chase through the streets of Brooklyn easily puts
'Taken 3's' highway chase to shame, while a high-rise apartment complex
on fire provides a tense backdrop against which Jimmy and Mike attempt
to protect a kid witness. There is also the iconic Madison Square
Garden, which provides the scene for a daring escape right after a
Rangers-Devils game, and heightens the Big Apple atmosphere while
keeping the gritty noir-ish feel of the earlier scenes.

It is certainly tempting to see this as yet another attempt to cash in
on Neeson's newfound action hero status, but 'Run All Night'
distinguishes itself with some well-filmed setpieces to satisfy the
adrenaline-hungry crowd while staying grounded with enough
characterisation and good acting for its audience to be rooted with the
characters on screen. It is also his best collaboration yet with
Collet-Serra, who seems genuinely interested at making a movie tailored
to the actor's strengths than simply cashing in on a fad. Even and
especially if you were disillusioned with 'Taken 3', 'Run All Night' is
a good, solid slab of macho entertainment that should wash away the
bitter taste of that over-the-hill franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
Liam Neeson is back yet again with another action film. Some will claim
this is another Taken film, and maybe he is cashing in big time on his
success from that franchise, but the story in this film is much deeper
overall than the recent Taken films, and the acting is absolutely
amazing. With some great acting and a good story overall, Liam Neeson
and the legendary Ed Harris deliver a must see film for any movie fan.
The following is my review of Run All Night.

Run All Night was written by writer Brad Ingelsby who is very well
known for his fabulous work on the 2013 film Out of the Furnace. I
actually did not know that going into the film, after seeing he did
write the film, I'm not surprised the characters were so greatly
written. The story follows Mobster Shawn Maguire(Ed Harris) and his
longtime friend and hit man Jimmy Conlon(Liam Neeson). These two have
been friends for a great many years, even decades. Now that they are
older and have children, things aren't exactly the same, more so for
Jimmy. While Shawn is still very much close to his son Danny(Boyd
Holbrook), Jimmy hasn't spoken to his son Mike(Joel Kinnaman) in
several years. One night Mike has a big job as a limo driver, but the
people he is driving around get into some dirt that makes Mike and
Jimmy enemies with Shawn. Shawn promises to hunt Mike and Shawn down
and kill them, and their family members because of the death of his
son. The story is very rich in characters, and you actually care about
them. While the film is nearly two hours, you honestly aren't looking
at your watch at all. The film flows by perfectly because of the
amazing writing by Brad Ingelsby. Overall, Ingelsby does another
fabulous job of writing in this film, and his efforts on this film
should not be overlooked.

The film was directed by Jaume Collet-Serra who is no stranger to
working with Liam Neeson on action films. He previously worked with
Neeson on Unknown and last years Non-Stop. The action in this film is
not exactly a great deal, but easily much more than last years
Non-Stop. There are some fabulous hand to hand combat action scenes,
and even one heck on a chase scene. Though the chase scene can be
convoluted because of some shaky cam work. Collett-Serra delivers this
nice way of changing location in the film from scene to scene by
zooming out of the current scene and showing a high rise city view,
then slowly zooming in on the new location. While this clever way of
changing might have been slightly overused, it was used perfectly and
if something different. The acting was really another great aspect of
the film, and when you have two legends like Ed Harris and Liam Neeson
on the screen together, of course great things will happen. Neeson and
Harris really play great off of each other, and you really believe the
story as it plays out. The film also features great acting from Joel
Kinnaman, Vincent D'Onofrio, and even Common fits in nicely with his
small but important role in the film. With mostly great action and
absolutely fabulous acting, Collett-Serra and Neeson have easily
delivered another epic action film that will live on for many years to
come.

The film was composed by composer Junkie XL who is well known for
working with legendary composer Hans Zimmer. He recently scored films
such as Divergent and 300: Rise of an Empire, and will be scoring next
years Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice. The score XL delivers is
nothing great nor something I would claim is memorable, but his work
here easily adds some much needed depth in the bigger action scenes.
There are some interesting things he does throughout the film, and this
is easily a score I will be going back to listen to over and over for
the next few weeks to see if it grows on me even more. Junkie XL
doesn't deliver the greatest score to an action film, but the score is
still very much top notch.

In closing, this is a very enjoyable film, which is certainly worth the
price of admission. I personally spent almost ten dollars on this film
and still feel I got my money's worth and then some. The replay value
seems to be high with not only the great visuals from the directing
angle, but also from the great performances from the actors. Fans of
films in general should put this film on on your list to watch,
certainly a must see film.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I will first start off by saying do not listen to a word these dumb
reviews are saying especially the so-called professional men and women
from newspaper company's and etc because they have no idea what they
are talking about at all. I absolutely loved this movie from beginning
to end it was a highly action oriented film and in my opinion Liam
Neeson's best to date beating out both Taken and Non-Stop both of which
I own and have seen. The story is simple which makes it easy to follow.
I also loved that there are a few scenes where Liam has some very dry
humor that made me laugh. The action was Top Notch and continuous for
about a good hour and twenty minutes out of a two hour movie. The other
actors were Superb including Ed Harris who is always Awesome as well as
Joel Kinnaman who did Fantastic. Common rocked as a Hit-man. The movie
had great closure and I would recommend this movie to anyone who loves
Liam Neeson's movies and even if you are tired of them I feel it's well
worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
Liam Neeson plays retired hit-man, James Conlon, and it's one of the
finest roles he's played in years with a great performance, and with
additional superb acting from Joel Kinnaman, whom plays his son, Mike
Conlon. The first 'Taken' may have turned out great, until it launched
a franchise, but 'Run All Night' is a definite improvement over
Neeson's latest work, and a major improvement over clichéd action
movies released in the past decade. What makes it so good, is that
Neeson brings company with him: his co-star Kinnaman who plays his son
- and it's a different movie experience altogether as in most clichéd
action thrillers the main protagonist, usually played by a familiar
action star, is usually without company the whole way through. The
character James Conlon is so similar to Jimmy Bobo, a part Sylvester
Stallone played in a movie called 'Bullet to the Head'. Jimmy Bobo was
an ageing hit-man who still made hits on assignments, but compared to
Conlon, he's more emotionless and merciless. Neeson's Conlon still had
good in his heart somewhere, whereas Bobo cared more about killing and
seeking vengeance. However, the action sequences are enjoyable and
thrilling, acting is great and the direction and screen writing becomes
intriguing whenever the main plot kicks in - so Run All Night has what
it takes of being one of the most exciting movies of the year!
<|_=00=_|>
Fluently put together and entertaining enough for it not to be
forgotten as easily as it could have been, yet it falls short in
achieving both what it could have and what it promises to, that being a
remarkable and unique action thriller.

All of the problems "Run All Night" has seem to tie in together and
make just one big problem: it simply does not use its potential and it
does not use it exactly because of the problems it has. Firstly it does
not use its well defined characters to its advantage and ultimately
even fails to stick to some. Moreover way to many times the film
descends into ultra-generic territory: I was watching the film,
entertained and time and time again what it seemed to be leading up to
wasn't as interesting as I wanted it to be, it was a situation I had
seen times and times again and I was repeatedly left asking myself "so
that was all?". The director also hints at a very original eye for
visuals, just as the whole movie hints at a better, more intriguing and
surprising film, but ultimately both fail to the delver what they
promised. The visual style and editing style had some brief brilliant
moments, but for the majority falls into, again, ultra-generic and
fast-cut distracting action scene. Way too many times I wondered why
hadn't the director shot a scene in another way which could have made
it incredibly and vastly more fascinating to watch.

That is not to say that there are many redeemable qualities. First and
foremost there is genuine tension mostly because of the well rounded
characters for whom I had a surprisingly positive emotional connection
and didn't realize so until the end. Helping this is a fantastic cast
that delivers the majority of the goods. Neeson is obviously
charismatic, he isn't phoning it in, he is giving a heartfelt
performance that definitely delivered. Ed Harris is in my opinion one
of the best actors of history possibly and this is further proof that
he simply can do no wrong, he has a presence on screen that is very
hard to match. Even Kinnaman, whom I have been a critic of, is
delivering a good enough performance. Lastly, the story doesn't ever
realize its potential as I said, but it still makes for a very riveting
premise that kept me hooked until the end, despite an overlong
duration.

I had a good share of fun and excitement, but I was disappointed to see
such a good opportunity ending up being another average film.
<|_=00=_|>
Another standard run-of-the-mill action movie.

You have your ex mob hit-man who is sucked back into the life-cliché.
You have your car chase, your bad guys who cant hit a target no matter
how many times they fire. You have your corrupt cops and your hero who
kills a few hundred people and then kills the boss that he used to work
for.

Nothing original to be found anywhere. Generic acting, generic
dialogue, generic everything.

If you like to see the same movie you have seen a gazillion times,
watch it, you will not be disappointed.

If you want to see something new, avoid at all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

The movie this is most like is Unforgiven. An evil monster who hates
what he is and is feared and loathed by all who meet him. Michael, his
estranged son, keeps his family a long way from Jimmy. Only the mob
boss, now going legitimate, who feels guilty for making Jimmy the
monster he is, will associate with him. Like Unforgiven, Jimmy is
sucked into events that make him return to the killing monster he was.
Michael witnesses Danny, Shawn's son, shooting some heroin dealers, and
Danny decides to kill Michael. Once Jimmy shoots Danny to prevent him
from killing Michael, the old nightmare returns. The best line to
understand Jimmy is his answer to the cop,"Just because I'm not in
prison doesn't mean I'm not being punished." Forgive the moralist, I
enjoy movies dissonant with today's decadent libertinism that dare to
depict Evil as its own punishment. Yes, it is and how rare in a modern
American movie. The film follows Jimmy protecting Michael one
nightmarish night. Along the way, Michael learns to see the man inside
of the monster. I liked where Jimmy said he had to leave them to
protect them from the monster he had become.

These characters are not the cardboard cut outs of Taken. Good and Evil
are blended together like real human beings. Even after Jimmy shoots
Shawn, there still is affection between them. As he dies in his arms,
the complexity that is the quintessence of dichotomous creatures both
light and night is delineated well. Yes, the movie is violent, graphic
and ugly in parts. I could have lived without seeing Shawn repeatedly
stabbing Danny's partner in the back. Jimmy kills plenty of people
coming for Michael. I admit the critics are right about the final shot
with the rifle; it was pure fantasy. It is not important not to miss
the forest for the trees with this movie. The microcosmic image of this
film is dead Jimmy clutching in his deceased hand the list of all the
families he destroyed serving Shawn that the cop wanted so badly. This
is the very essence of the movie: an evil man filled with guilt trying
to show his love for his son; indeed, he gives his very life for all of
them. Taken was a live action cartoon utterly devoid of any reality.
Here, Jimmy dies at the end; this is not a cartoon. Yes, the final shot
is a flaw, you are right, but the theme of the movie is meritorious
within this antithetical Zeitgeist. 

Harris and Neeson create characters with depth to them full of
ambivalence like real human beings. Like Munny, he is seeking
redemption; in Jimmy's case it costs him everything. My favorite scene
in the movie is the last one where Michael has put Jimmy's picture back
up. Like what is done humorously in Uncle Buck, the performance of good
is never too late as long as one is still breathing. Like Munny,
several times Jimmy stops Michael from killing people,"You pull that
trigger you become just like me." The movie is relentlessly intense and
well acted with great writing. Try finding another film this deeply
moral beneath the action. Any movie that models nobility: giving your
life to protect helpless ones will be forgiven, by me, a multitude of
flaws. A Good Movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Mobster and hit man Jimmy Conlon has one night to figure out where his
loyalties lie: with his estranged son, Mike, whose life is in danger,
or his longtime best friend, mob boss Shawn Maguire, who wants Mike to
pay for the death of his son.

Run all Night stars Liam Neeson, Joel Kinnaman, Ed Harris and is
directed by Jaume Collet-Serra who brought us Unknown and Non-Stop.
It's an exciting and funny movie to watch when you have nothing else to
do and you're bored. It is quiet entertaining for what it is. People
should know that by now: don't mess with Liam Neeson's family! When I
first saw the trailer I was expecting yet another "not-so- good" film
starring Liam Neeson such as Walk Among the Tombstones; but this film
is definitely a good action movie with some drama thriller touches here
and there. At first, Liam Neeson is just a beaten drunk broken man and
throughout the film you really start to care about this man who is
hunted by some of the things he's done in his past; as well as his son
and Ed Harris characters. You really feel like they have a past, it
feels like things have happened to them before; which shows a very well
built story. Those are the best characters: when you're able to
envision character's background before the movie start, they exist
beyond the movie. In fact, this movie takes place in a city in one
night, which is a good thing for the action plot because everyone is
constantly moving. However, on the other hand it makes things a little
hard to keep up with this bunch of informations: cops, drug dealers,
mob bosses, Liam Neeson and his son, his son's family and their
relationship with him, his relationship with Ed Harris and last but not
least an assassin is thrown in the middle of everything. This cool
hit-man stars Common and it would be great to know more about his story
rather than being thrown out there with his futuristic Google glasses
(which were super cool by the way). Finally, there's one cameo scene
that I won't spoil; it seems a little bit forced and completely
irrelevant to the main plot of the movie. It doesn't fit in at all,
it's like a completely different movie.

Overall Run All Night is not as good as the first Taken movie but it
ads a little more heart, substance and more depth though. It's very fun
and suspenseful thriller, it has good characters and good action
sequences.
