
It is a lot like " True Lies" in that a lot of the movie is played for
laughs. Amber Heard fits her role very well. Kevin Costner is great as
a man who has spent too much time on work and not enough time on his
personal life. That is something most of us can relate too. I see
people complain about the subplots but they are what make the movie
fun. The character actors are great. Not a miss among them. The chase
scenes are good with out going over the top. There were only a couple
of times where the movie goes to big explosive special effects that
take away from the story. The Daughter, played by Hailee Steinfeld, is
excellent. Haiee played Mattie Ross in "True Grit". It will be a great
loss to the screen if she goes into directing like she wants.

Get some popcorn, sit back and enjoy the fun.
<|_=00=_|>
People, movies are entertainment. They are about the willing suspension
of disbelief.

Three days to kill is an excellent movie if you are not looking for
something deadly serious. Do I believe there are CIA guys out there who
kill a dozen people in a week, and leave that kind of mess? Hell no.
This is more like a James Bond movie mixed with regular guy.

Sometimes we just want to get out of the house during a long winter and
be taken away from all this. I think the movie was well worth the
money, and I will buy either the DVD later, or Amazon Prime.

I am not a big Kevin Costner fan, but I think this is one of his best
performances.
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe I should have seen it coming with the 50/50 poster. Maybe I
should have seen it with the 50/50 writing credits. This movie has
50/50 written all over it and, no, I'm not talking about the 2011 film
starring Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Seth Rogen but 3 Days To Kill could
have learned a thing or two from that film considering the dark subject
matter and light- hearted jokes.

--Spoilers past this point--

Kevin Costner stars as an over-the-hill but still bad-to-the-bone CIA
operative with a stuffy nose and light cough that lands him on his back
nearly the entire film (wow, after a certain age Hollywood really kicks
you when you're down). He is told by his doctor he is suffering from
brain cancer which has now spread to his lungs and he only has 3 months
to live. To pile it on even more, a CIA representative passes along the
news that they no longer need his services. What else can a sick and
retired Jack Bauer-esque type man do at such a low point in his life?
Ah, yes! Reconnect with your ex-wife and estranged teenage daughter
before you kick the bucket. When his ex leaves town for work for 3
days, Costner's character has time to spend, or kill, with his daughter
hence the movie title's pun. 

So far, so good, right? Well, it would have been had the film focused
on picking its tone instead of Amber Heard's next crotch shot. (tangent
alert) Yes, I am a red-blooded male and this film made even me roll my
eyes at the over-the-top sultriness of Heard's character. She is
supposed to be a covert CIA operative in Paris but stands out like a
sore thumb...a thumb with Victoria Secret catwalk-ready hair, fire
truck red lipstick, and tight, black leather (sometimes latex) dresses.
We're never informed why she dresses this way, or why she talks and
walks like Jessica Rabbit with a cigarette in hand, especially when the
first scene of her in the movie has her looking like Clarice Starling's
younger sister. Is she a double agent working with the bad guys? Does
she have an incurable shopping addiction? Is she moonlighting at the
Red Light District? Your guess is as good as mine. (tangent ended)

We're never quite sure how to feel about this film since the mood is
all over the place. Is the film supposed to be a raucous comedy where
the bumbling action hero dad goes through every tired clich√© of bonding
with his hormone-raging teenage daughter? Or is it an action thriller
where the aging Rambo goes after the not-so-mysterious-after-all
generic terrorists named The Albino and The Wolf? The writers never
seem to mesh the two ideas/genres together cleanly and it shows. Did
they work separately and then staple their two different scripts
together? Something clearly got lost in the shuffle because we
shouldn't be laughing during what are meant to be tense, action
sequences nor should we be scratching our heads after a joke is uttered
unless we know from the start what type of movie this is...which we
don't and, clearly, neither do the filmmakers. 

At least the main cast knew what time it was and brought their A game.
Costner was in fine form as an American cowboy (the reference is thrown
around numerous times throughout the film) but he is completely
upstaged by the young Hailee Steinfeld who, given her age, is easily
able to tap into an honest teenager's feelings of insecurity and
resentment. Watching her grow as an actress will be an amazing thing to
see in the next couple of years. Connie Nielsen was great but her
character was lost in the background. What place can a character who is
a mother over 40 have in a quasi action/comedy/thriller piece?
Absolutely none so off the screen she goes and she doesn't come back
until the climax. Typical.

Bottom line, you're either going to love this movie or hate it. The
vague ending sort of leaves room (just a small ray of light) for a
sequel so I guess if enough people love it the writers can get to work
and start stapling up the next script.
<|_=00=_|>
"The wolf is the most dangerous terrorist this world has ever faced.
Only you can stop him."

Despite not having a great tracking record, there have been a few of
McG's movies that I shamelessly found slightly entertaining. 3 Days to
Kill began with some promise and I was enjoying Kevin Costner's lead
action role, but that feeling didn't last too long once the action
scenes and comedy became repetitive. Luc Besson has directed some of my
favorite films, but as a screenwriter he hasn't had much success with
his latest films. I do have to admit he is trying something different
by mixing genres, which partially worked for me in The Family, but it
fell flat in 3 Days to Kill. The screenplay was weak, Costner's
character kept on having ridiculous blackouts during every climactic
scene, the father daughter relationship problems that tried to play out
as a comedy were repetitive, and the villains never felt menacing. The
only positive thing about 3 Days to Kill were the action scenes and
Kevin Costner's star power. It's what he have come to expect from Luc
Besson over the past years, some strong actions scenes but poorly
written dialogues. 3 Days to Kill feels might have been directed by
McG, but it feels much more like a lesser Besson film. 

3 Days to Kill opens with a scene at the CIA headquarters where Agent
Vivi (Amber Heard) is given an assignment to hunt down a terrorist
known as The Wolf (Richard Sammel). No one has actually seen him
before, but his associate, The Albino (Tomas Lemarquis) is supposedly
going to meet up with him at an international hotel. They also mention
to Vivi that they have an agent on the ground named Ethan (Kevin
Costner) whose only mission is to take down The Albino. The film then
focuses on Ethan as he is getting the job done, but all of a sudden one
of the agents is compromised and things get out of control. Ethan saves
the day but just as he is about to capture his target he suffers a
blackout and wakes up in a hospital where he is told that he has cancer
and only a few months to live. He decides to spend his last months in
Paris where his ex-wife, Tina (Connie Nielsen), and his teenage
daughter, Zooey (Hailee Steinfeld) live. He always had trouble
balancing work with family and that eventually led to him losing them,
but with only a few months to live he wants to make amends. Right after
he arrives in Paris, Vivi shows up with an experimental drug that could
save his life with the only condition that he finish the job by hunting
down The Wolf and The Albino. In order to spend more time with his
family, he accepts, but balancing out work and family proves to be a
very difficult task.

I was glad that Kevin Costner got a lead action role and I thought he
was pretty solid despite the weak character he was given. He might not
be as menacing as Liam Neeson, but he is very charismatic. He had a
smaller action role at the beginning of the year in Jack Ryan where he
was also solid. Amber Heard gave a strange performance, but she looked
great nonetheless. The cast was quite solid with Hailee Steinfeld also
delivering, but my major issue had to do with the repetitive storyline
and the way the final third of the film played out.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Costner is a CIA agent who just found out he doesn't have long to
live so he agrees to one more assignment from Amber Heard. He has also
decided to reacquaint with his estranged wife, Connie Nielsen, and teen
daughter, Hailee Steinfeld, in Paris. Oh, and his apartment is
inhabited by squatters who he legally can't kick out until the spring.
With what I just described, there's plenty of action, drama, and some
humor to go along with a pretty entertaining mix of genres that I just
was willing to ride along with. The players I mentioned were good
enough for this. Really, I was pleasantly surprised by how much I
enjoyed this. So on that note, I recommend 3 Days to Kill.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not quite sure what this movie set out to be - a serious CIA
thriller, another Bourne/Reacher/Ryan attempt to achieve what James
Bond achieved and spawn a remarkable franchise, or a slapstick comedy
that didn't take itself too seriously, but enjoyed the thrill of action
and explosions in the manner that films such as Die Hard, Mr and Mrs
Smith or by Mcg himself, This Means War did. But whatever it's
intention was, it failed.

Starting off as a set up to what could be a serious albeit cliqued film
- the journeyman agent, the one evil genius still at large, that one
last job before calling it a day - the film quickly loses itself in a
way that it never quite recovers from. With a wooden performance by
Amber Heard, and scenes and dialogue that belong in a Robert Rodriguez
film, 3 Days to Kill never lives up to the potential of what it
could've been. Not quite action, not quite spy thriller, not quite
comedy, and so many botched attempts at sentimentality that it becomes
almost soap operaish in it's execution.

A solid performance by Kevin Costner, who's gone along the lines of
Liam Neeson in perfecting the senior bad ass role, but even Costner
wasn't enough to give this film plausability. I've watched it once, I
couldn't see myself enduring it again.
<|_=00=_|>
3 Days To Kill is your typical run of the mill action movies you've
probably seen hundreds of times before . CIA agent Kevin Costner is
chasing the Wolf who possesses some dirty nuclear bombs he would love
to sell to some very naughty terrorists . The movie begins with the now
too familiar shootouts, explosions, chase, and fight scenes . And then
comes the idiotic subplots . Costner is dying from brain cancer and has
only months to live . Not to worry because a beautiful, fast driving,
platinum blonde, leather clad, CIA boss, Amber Heard comes along in the
nick of time . She pulls a hypodermic needle the size of a football
pump out of her handbag . It contains a not yet FDA approved anti brain
cancer drug . This gives Costner a temporary new lease on life . So he
goes back to his rundown tenement house located in the shabbiest part
of Paris . Well guess what ? A large homeless North African Black
family decided to move in to his dilapidated apartment during his
absence . They have even taken the liberty of painting his bedroom an
awful shade of yellow ! Don't worry, Costner's arsenal of handguns and
assault rifles have been well cared for by the older gentleman squatter
who now resides there . Subplot number 3 is next as the dying Costner
decides to look up his ex wife and rebellious 16 year old daughter he
hasn't seen in about 10 years . Predictably, the movie goes from
Costner being a complete stranger to the most annoying hands-on, know
it all dad, and of course the most merciless cold blooded killer the
CIA has ever had . Unfortunately, seductive Amber Heard's sexy scenes
are few and far between . I enjoyed seeing her various hair styles and
leather dominatrix outfits in this otherwise tedious and imbecilic
movie . The ending is similar to that of Taken 2 . All the bad guys, I
guess about one hundred , are dead . His wife and daughter love and
idolize him dearly , and for Christmas he receives not a necktie but
another giant hypodermic horse needle filled with the magic potion to
keep him alive a little longer . Hopefully, it's not to make a sequel !
I would rather spend 3 days in the dentist's chair getting a root canal
than having to watch 3 Days To Kill again .

I gave 3 Days To Kill a generous 2 ** stars out of a possible 10 . Pass
this awful mess up . You will thank me later . Not Hot ! .............
PWH
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't know what to exactly expect from 3 Days to Kill, a film
produced by Luc Besson and directed by McG. Both filmmakers once made
audacious and innovative action films, but as the years went by, they
seemed to have lost their "magical touch". Would 3 Days to Kill be a
continuation of that tendency, or would it be a perfect combination of
talents which would take them back to the top? I'm afraid that the
answer ended up being the former. The "retired man (cop, thief, spy,
plumber, etc.) who has to come back for one last job" premise is well
known, and it can bring good results when it's properly handled. And
the addition of family melodrama can be employed to humanize the hero.
The screenplay from 3 Days to Kill employed all those elements, but
they are so badly implemented that they end up hindering with each
other instead of complementing. The spy intrigue is developed with an
unbearable slowness and isn't interesting at all. The main character's
relationship with his daughter seems taken from a bad sitcom, and it
can never evoke credible emotions, not to mention that the girl is so
whimsical and antipathetic that she doesn't inspire too many wishes in
us to see her reconciled with her father. On the positive side, Kevin
Costner brings a solid performance and shows a competent physical
development during the action scenes. Despite him, 3 Days to Kill is a
horrible action film, and a total waste of time. I know that many
people hated the frantic style McG used to employ (I personally liked
it), but it would have brought some life to 3 Days to Kill, avoiding it
from being a pathetic collection of clich√©s, completely anonymous and
without any energy.
<|_=00=_|>
The premise itself looks rather familiar. An elderly killer that tries
to bond with his long neglected daughter, but his job comes in his way,
so he has to make use of his skills again. With the plot set in Paris
and Luc Besson involved, one might think this is "Taken 3" starring
Kevin Costner.

This is not the case with "3 Days to Kill". There are few action
sequences and when they happen, they are rather short and uninvolving.
The film instead focuses on the relationship between Ethan Renner
(Costner) and his teenage daughter (Hailee Steinfeld). Having not seen
her in years because of his job, he wants to connect with her while he
obligated to do one last job.

There is great potential in this premise: An agent who hides his real
life from his loved ones and has to coordinate his job and his
relationships worked great in "True Lies". Instead of action the focus
here lies on the comedy aspect, which is perfectly fine, if it is
indeed funny. Unfortunately this is not the case here. The script is
too clich√©d, the humor stale, there is a lack of chemistry between
Costner and Steinfeld and the antagonists fail to leave any lasting
impression, so there is not a sense of threat throughout the entire
film.

Its constant shifts of tone and many flaws make "3 Days to Kill" a
forgettable flick in which Kevin Costner gives a solid performance but
cannot outweigh the shortcomings of the script. If you are a die-hard
Costner fan you might consider renting this one, everyone else should
not bother.
<|_=00=_|>
From seeing the trailers, I expected a different kind of action film
then what I saw. It doesn't make the film bad by any means, just as I
said, not what I was expecting. You could very well tell the Luc Besson
influence, who wrote the story, co-wrote the screenplay & produced the
film, from the odd pacing / editing of the film. A lot of the dialogue
also seemed foreign, and weirdly placed. Again, I'm not saying this is
a bad film, just ya know. I envisioned a more action heavy / bare
knuckles kind of film and it did have more of a character driven story
then I expected, so it still was a nice entertaining film and I loved
Costner in this. I kinda feel he's making a strong comeback, that I'm
excited for. I say if you like Costner, you love Besson, then this is a
film for you! :)
