
I saw this movie at an advanced screening of what I thought was a
restoration of the original movie. Instead, I got treated to movie that
I didn't even know was being released. The Maniac remake is a really
good movie and better than its predecessor, which was more notable for
its Tom Savini gore effects and unconventional leading man than for
actually being a good movie.

This flick, like the previous Maniac, dispels the idea that psychopaths
are cool or bad ass. Here, Frank (Elijah Wood) is a weirdo loner that
spends his days restoring antique mannequins and his nights stalking,
murdering, and scalping beautiful young women. His grip on reality is
so fragile that he has to chug anti-psychotics just to keep his
hallucinations under control. Then he meets a pretty young French girl
that actually seems to like him. Instead of offering redemption, the
burgeoning relationship only makes him more unstable.

The murders are bloody and brilliantly shot and they're made
dramatically more by disturbing the film's central gimmick, almost the
entire movie is presented from the killer's POV.

The new Maniac does a solid job of capturing the grind-house spirit of
the original film. There's plenty of sick humor, sex, and gore all well
captured by director Frank Khalfoun. He also partnered with Alaxander
Aja (High Tension, The Hill Have Eyes), a co-writer and producer, on
the disposable P2 which sucked despite, not because of him. Then he
made the superior crime flick Wrong Turn at Tahoe. Now, after watching
Maniac, I have to say he is officially a director to keep an eye on.
Elijah Wood also does great work as Frank, although I admit it took me
a little while to get used to the idea of the stoner dork from Wilfred
as a murderer. He definitely won me over by the end, though.

There are minor problems here and there, like the way the whole city is
always completely deserted when Frank is stalking a victim. Still, this
is a great little movie, very violent, and if you're a gore hound
that's also interested in the psychology of a killer, you should watch
this immediately.
<|_=00=_|>
I had no idea what to expect from 'Maniac' i had never seen or heard of
the original movie, i came across this remake whilst checking out other
users watch lists and the title alone had my interest.

Honestly though i had my doubts about this movie because when i see
Elijah Wood i instantly think of Lord of The Rings i was intrigued to
see if he could pull off the role of a psychopathic killer.

So what did i think?

Epic! 

Firstly the music throughout the movie is awesome, there are moments
when the soundtrack sounds like something from 'A Clockwork Orange' its
dark and really creates an atmosphere of sinisterness.

Elijah Wood is perfect for this role his voice and delivery of the
script is great. The movie is shot from the killers point of view (POV)
but the moments when you actually see Elijah Wood he looks perfect for
this role, strange, disturbed out of place and mentally unstable.

The violence is not excessive in its amount but it is extremely brutal
in its detail, it wasn't easy to watch the scalping without cringing
and i have a strong threshold for movie gore, this was just brutal and
in your face, it was great because very few films get to me in this
way.

If you like psycho movies and brutal gore then you'll love this movie
like i did.

'Maniac' is easily one of my favorite psycho killer movies of all time,
my girlfriend (who actually loves horror and can handle gore) has vowed
never to watch 'Maniac' again because it made her feel so
uncomfortable... aw!
<|_=00=_|>
The world wasn't exactly crying out for a remake of 1980's "Maniac".
Starring Joe Spinnel and directed by William Lustig, it was one of the
most intense, jarring, violent and in your face horror films of the
entire decade. Surprisingly, someone got the idea to remake it. The
results are surprisingly close to the original in its refusal to
compromise and the highly disturbing and troubling psychological
terrain it traverses.

Not so much powered by anything resembling a conventional story, the
film is very much in the tradition of character based cinema very much
in the vein of 1970's New Hollywood cinema-films such as "Midnight
Cowboy" and, of course, "Taxi Driver", which it wears its influence
loudly and proudly.

Elijah Wood absolutely stuns in this remake-he truly is the glue that
holds it all together. Frank (Wood) is very much torn between something
resembling a normal life and his more psychotic tendencies. The film
really gets you in this character's highly disturbed and disturbing
frame of mind and psychology.

Apart from a truly astounding and fearless performance from Wood, where
this remake really excels is in its visual and sound design and look
and sound. When Frank is plagued by constant migraine headaches, the
frame starts to blur around the edges, accompanied by a high pitched
sound. Also, with a few exceptions, the film is very much told visually
in a first perspective, point of view manner. We only see Frank via
reflection in something like a mirror or a window, illustrating
beautifully the man's fractured and shattered mind.

Be warned, though. Although not constantly violent, when it is, this
film, like the original, takes absolutely no prisoners whatsoever!
This, coupled with the unnerving, dark terrain it covers, will, like
the original, make it something of an acquired taste. If you've got the
nerves and stomach for it, prepare to be shocked and stunned. A true
exception to the rule about all remakes being watered down, compromised
and awful.
<|_=00=_|>
Since I have not seen the original Maniac (1980) hence this movie for
me had no prerequisite anticipatory factor attached to it. Also since
slasher movie genre doesn't hold so much of a charm on me so I took
this movie in a stride, if you know what I mean. I was highly impressed
by Elijah Wood in Sin City, his cold calculated cannibalistic killer
portrayal had an allure to it and just so as to revisit that coldness I
went into Maniac.

Now one thing I can guarantee about Maniac is it's quite difficult to
stay indifferent to it. It's ruthlessly executed. The P.O.V approach is
spot on, for then you truly tend to understand what goes inside that
head of his. After a point of time it turns into a personal experience
of sorts and this is what P.O.V brings to the table. The strain and the
blurry visions when Frank has those migraines reciprocates his own pain
and you first hand live through his troubled life, feeding into his
dreams and upon his preys. It would be incorrect to call Maniac a
slasher movie, it does have elements resembling the Slasher genre but
in it's nuances you find a whole gamut of emotions colliding and
forging his actions. It explores Frank inside out and in turn generates
sympathy for him. His loneliness and his apprehensions in confronting
his emotions tend to make him more than a simple antagonist. As Frank
you feel cheated, angry and a sick desperation to manifest these
emotions into something violent. I won't say if it was meant to be an
allegory of sorts on the society and it's structure but it sure was an
interesting character study. 

Technically the movie is superbly done, the P.O.V might be a little
discomforting to start with but soon it settles in, there are portions
where the continuity is broken but those are real Cathartic situations
and so the idea in itself justifies the break of continuity. As for the
performances, Elijah Wood; not so visible save in mirrors is still
terrific, his voice for much of the movie brings out the desperation
inside him. He is truly an underrated actor with such vast potential,
it's just a matter of putting in a straw and sucking out the talent.
Even Nora as Anna puts in a nice performance, looking straight into the
camera and with no source to compliment her performance she manages to
pull it off real nice. Overall Maniac in terms of story offers nothing
new but the treatment is worth the accolades. It might seem hollow at
times and Frank a little clich√©d but still for the sheer
experimentation and experience of it, Maniac at least a one time
watch..I'd go with a 8/10...and would recommend for sure.
<|_=00=_|>
Man! I was not expecting this kind of a knife to the gut when I bought
my ticket for "Maniac" knowing nothing about the movie.

I like horror movies...sort of...but I don't like gory movies. It
scares me and disturbs me to see that kind of thing. This movie...is
full of gruesome, unwatchable scenes of torture.

But...it works. This is one of the only gore films I've ever seen where
the gore is necessary. Well, why is it necessary? Most of the film is
shot in first-person perspective, from the eyes of the troubled killer.
He cannot reconcile his sadistic, aggressive impulses to torture and
punish women with his tender impulses to love and be loved by them. 

Whenever he is sexually attracted to a woman he responds with a host of
symptoms that might be seen as unconscious attempts to protect him from
something unbearable inside. He washes his hands until they bleed, he
blacks out, he has hallucinations, he has crippling migraines...but
nothing works as well as killing and scalping women...reducing them to
objects. The director plays cleverly with this conceit by making him a
restorer of mannequins. 

So far, so good. What this film does well...and I can't remember the
last horror movie that had this effect on me...is to hit dangerously
close to home. I recognize myself in this killer...I recognize that
masculine desire as such has the potential to turn into what is
presented here...the main character barely appears on screen...he is
nothing but a desperate gaze seeking an object to consume with his
scary watery blue eyes. It is only once he has killed his victims and
transformed them into inanimate objects - their bloody scalps (the
scalping in this movie is even worse than in Inglourious Basterds) -
that he is able to come to be (temporarily) as a subject and not as a
pure restless gaze. The director makes us feel his relief by only
giving us third-person glimpses of the titular maniac when his blood
lust is (temporarily) sated. I found myself letting out a deep breath
every time the camera backed away from Frank for a few short seconds
after a kill. We feel, viscerally, the back-and-forth between the
libido's ruthless injunctions and the stifled desire to be a human
being among other humans (here, being included literally in the frame
with others). Incidentally, this is why this film works in a way that
"The Lady in the Lake" doesn't - the "pure" first person fails in that
film because in life we do not experience ourselves "only" from the
first person but rather from a back-and-forth between the first and the
third person. 

The many scenes of the maniac stalking the women are very creepy, for
the simple reason that much of what he does - looking at women, maybe
following them a little, perving on their curves - is just normal male
behavior. On my way home from the movie, lost in thought, late at
night, on an empty street, I nearly walked into a young woman, walking
home alone, and then found myself walking behind her on the sidewalk. I
hope she didn't see the same movie I did.

But why is the gore necessary? The gore is necessary because this film
is a meditation on the subject/object split constitutive of
subjectivity as such. The "pure subject" that is gaze can only be
satisfied by encountering a "pure object", one that can only be found
somewhere inside the body of a woman. Freud might say that Frank is
searching for the fantasized maternal phallus...an interpretation that
fits perfectly with the maniac's backstory. We need to see the gore
because we need to feel the frustration that this character feels...we
come to understand that he is so oppressed by his own "subjectivity",
the prison of his own gaze, that he is compelled to commit horrible
crimes, to cut through bone and skin, just to get some relief from his
drives. 

Another creepy and effective feature of this film is that at least one
of his victims is an awful human being whom we want to see die. It is
disturbing to realize this. "Get her, Frank!" I found myself rooting as
he followed the gallerist home. It was also perspicacious of the
director to present Anna to us first as a sort of angelic soul who
presumably sees the maniac's inner beauty only to reveal to us later
that in fact she is a shallow narcissist whose interest in Frank was
always self-serving. We are as surprised as Frank when she says she has
a boyfriend...why? Because she has been leading "us" on until then. The
nickel drops when we meet her boyfriend in the bathroom: he is a sexy
macho jerk, the kind of man women like Anna like in real life. Anna
turns out to be almost a female counterpart to Frank: a woman not
interested in other human beings but in objects...in the mysterious
object inside herself (hence her own face projected on the
mannequins)...we sense that the difference between her and Frank is a
question of degree, not of kind...the true difference between them is
that they occupy asymmetrical positions vis-a-vis the same hypnotic
object: the maternal phallus hidden somewhere inside a woman's body. 

A brave role for Elijah Wood...brave because it uses to full advantage
his weird blend of adult and infantile features...his very body and
face (especially the eyes) are turned into disturbing external
manifestations of his inner conflicts. 

8 stars for a movie that has made me feel, viscerally, some disturbing
truths about sexuality and identity that previously only registered on
the intellectual level.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is disturbing and disgusting but if you're watching it
that's the point. It had a lot of points that made me feel -- for lack
of a better word -- plain icky.

Elijah Wood does a great job dialing up the creep factor -- he is
incredibly believable as an unadulterated psychopath. Maniac recently
got banned in some locales because of its content, so that alone says
that it does well in the horror genre.

It's unsettling, creepy, gross. It does what it sets out to do pretty
well. The direction is good in this film as is the cinematography; for
a remake it was exceptional!
<|_=00=_|>
I am not writing a review because unlike the others (not pointing
fingers and i apologize if i offend) i don't want to spoil anything and
don't want to say anything majorly about the story I see that people
rate it for something it isn't and i feel like that is a problem. I
just feel like people should know at least what I gathered from this
film. 

I have not watched the original but what i have understood is that
people seemed irritated that some "proffesional" reviewers wrote it off
as a women hating, violent movie and nothing more.

Now i have read some of the reviews for this and a lot of people say
the same thing. Just a violent nasty and judges/rates it on that. IT
Isn't. In fact this is one of the saddest movies i have seen. I think
its wrong to say that it isn't violent. It has violence that makes you
want to turn away. But its not about that. It doesn't rely on violence.
The main character is a troubled man that tries to live his life,
dealing with his issues. He doesn't have anyone and doesn't know how to
deal with them alone.

Its a 1st person drama/thriller with a sad but beautiful techno music
to blend in with the neon lighted feel of this movie. The acting of
Elijah wood is brilliant in that he mostly needs to act with his voice
and not his face. The story is sad and i cant help but feel sad for the
main character much like The Voices staring Ryan Reynolds. The movie
focuses so much on there psychological problems that it just comes of
as tragic and sad. 

This isn't a horror movie with no story and disposable characters. This
is a character built, character driven sad movie that is beautiful both
visual and story wise.
<|_=00=_|>
Now this movie isn't for the weak of heart or for people that have weak
stomachs. The kills in this movie is realistic and very gruesome
looking. Although it lacks tension, it's better than a lot of the
redundant slasher movies that go straight to DVD. What is unique about
this movie is that it put you in the view point of the killer and for
the most part goes in a first person view direction. And just with that
this movie can get difficult to watch at points. Watching this movie
was liked watching a slasher version of "Enter the Void" except instead
of a wandering spirit, it's in the view point of the killer. Elijah
Wood is really good at playing this obsessive, creepy or mentally
unstable psycho killer roles. And he really nails it in this one as
well. Although it lacks in tension it makes up for it with the visuals
and the psychological aspect of things. Now I haven't seen the original
and while this is a remake, I think it's a stand alone film. It's a
disturbing film from start to finish and will have most people's
attention that can handle it, all the way through. Psycho slasher movie
fans will most definitely enjoy this one.

7.6/10
<|_=00=_|>
MANIAC is an unwanted remake of the classic Joe Spinell video nasty of
the same name from 1980, a film about a psychopath with a habit of
scalping women. This new version follows exactly the same story (right
down to the horrific nightmare climax) with 'improved' CGI gore effects
over the original, although I have to say they're nowhere near the
quality of the much-remembered Tom Savini prosthetic effects work.

In any case, this is an incredibly dark odyssey of murder and madness.
I thought the material would have been watered down but this is just as
grisly and depressing as the original. There's plenty of reason to
watch, not least Elijah Wood who makes a good psychopath (as he did in
SIN CITY); the whole film is shot through the killer's point of view
which gives things an edgy, fresh feel. I loved the use of music and
cinematography throughout, which reminded me of Refn's style in DRIVE,
so it's a little bit of a shame that the story is so unrelentingly dark
and miserable. I'd love to see an action or martial arts film done in
this same POV style, though.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very gory and bloody film and unless you don't mind watching
these types of films you won't like it. 

I've not seen the original so I can't compare the two. Elijah Wood is
an actor I like and he is excellent in this as the serial killing
maniac. I found it hard to get into the film but this is one film that
gradually improves as it goes along rather than fades away. 

Along with the bloody horror there are a number of really tense scenes.
It is the most unsettling film I've seen in a while. Maniac is well
filmed and uses some very interesting filming techniques. I can't say I
enjoyed watching it too much was a bit too sadistic for my taste.
However for it's type this is a very good effort.
