
There I sat, in stone-cold silence, not completely watching, but
observing Grown Ups 2, one of the most desperate comedies of the year.
Smiling maybe twice, groaning several times, rolling my eyes several
more, and eventually closing them for a few seconds trying to imagine
what a movie like this could've been if the quality of the talent
matched the quality of the three screenwriters behind this project.

The first Grown Ups film wasn't great - or even good - by any means,
but had the vibe of a cheery, stupid ABC Family movie. The strongest
complaint I had about the original film carries over to this one
immensely which is that given the immense amount of talent in this
film, from the three title characters alone, this should be a much
better, much funnier movie. Adam Sandler can be funny when he is given
timing and a decent character, Kevin James can always be sweet, simple,
and relatable, Chris Rock is one of the funniest comedians working
today, and David Spade almost always knocks one out of the park in
Rules of Engagement. It's dumbfounding to note that Taylor Lautner has
the biggest laughs in the film, and after watching this, I have faith
that after the redundant Twilight franchise he'll find work in some
solid buddy comedies. However, the first inkling that Grown Ups 2 is
terrible is by the sole fact that Rob Schneider himself decided other
matters were worth is time than making a film that was almost
guaranteed to be a hit.

The entire event is a plot less picture (not the good kind) that
provides its audience with a pathetic array of scenes that seem more
like throwaway skits from Saturday Night Live. It's a massively
redundant, laundry-list of senseless setups with unfunny payoffs that
usually involve something along the lines of bathroom humor,
objectification, homophobia, and obnoxious behavior. In other words,
it's another Sandler movie. It takes place entirely on the last day of
school and revolves around the gang of Lenny (Adam Sandler), Eric
(Kevin James), Kurt (Chris Rock), and Marcus (David Spade) returns,
this time welcoming a more quiet, suburban lifestyle contrary to that
of Lenny's in Hollywood, and the ridiculous series of sitcom antics
that unfold overtime.

The plot stops there. What follows is, as stated, a series of
cheaply-staged, poorly-performed, witless gags that do nothing but make
one check the time. Among the barrage of questions I had while watching
this film, one of which was, "who is the target audience here?" My mind
resorted immediately to tweens and adolescents, who spend too much time
giggling at bathroom humor as is. But then, as the film progressed, it
began to redirect its senses to a more sentimental side, which only
shows the immense tonal strain the film has which is "create cinematic
anarchy for forty minutes before showing that this is a story about
being true to ones roots and taking care of the family." The
sentimentalism is then mixed with a strangely out of place eighties
party that concludes the picture, which will definitely not be
appreciated to the fullest extent by the previously mentioned tweens
and adolescences, as many of the jokes and period references will fly
straight over their head.

The problem with the film is that it seems so effortless and so poorly
conducted. At least with various Sandler films like Happy Gilmore, Big
Daddy, and even the unexpectedly raunchy That's My Boy, I could sense
that it was made for somebody, be it adolescents or a bit older of a
crowd and stuck with that persona. Grown Ups 2 is a film made with no
agenda, no personality, and no spirit. It even resorts to the tireless
Sandler clich√© of having all the male characters being a cornucopia of
stupidity and the female characters being nothing but eye-candy for the
men. There are certain things I expect Sandler to be over now, what
with approaching fifty in a few years.

You have a choice as a moviegoer this weekend and the several other
weekends Grown Ups 2 is going to play. You can either a see a film that
possesses gags as commonplace and predictable as a Fruity Pebbles
commercial or use this time as an opportunity to seek out nearby
independent features in theaters, at your local video store, or even on
Netflix. Say you refute that suggestion and want to see Grown Ups 2 as
a pleasant, feel-good movie. I know plenty of independent movies that
are pleasant, feel good movies (Frances Ha is one of them and is still
playing in many theaters nationwide). Wouldn't you at least want to
give money to people who don't believe that you're sitting in the
audience because you possess the attention-span of a newborn? Starring:
Adam Sandler, Kevin James, Chris Rock, David Spade, Salma Hayek, Maya
Rudolph, Maria Bello, Nick Swardson, Shaquille O'Neal, Peter Dante, and
Allen Covert. Directed by: Dennis Dugan.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is terrible, absolutely terrible. There is no story line,
and every single one of the "grown up men" in excessively creepy. The
jokes aren't funny and undoubtedly the best performance comes from
SHAQ. I failed to find any humor in this movie and the film seemed to
drag on and on. It was really hard to find anyone likable in this
movie. All the characters were stiff and uninteresting. 

I'm a fan of old Adam Sandler movies, but I feel that he has lost his
comedic touch. This may be his first sequel, but I truly hope it's his
last. Maybe it's time to retire Mr. Sandler.

All in all, do not waste your money on this awful movie.
<|_=00=_|>
How can I fully express my total disappointment in this film? It may
not be possible. I am one of those who actually liked the first Grown
Ups. It had a plot, good characters and lots of fun. The sequel, on the
other hand, is pointless, stupid, juvenile, and insulting. Not one
redeeming quality in the entire movie. I contemplated leaving after the
first 15 minutes! I forced myself to stay just to see if this mess
would get any better. It didn't. The jokes concern nude men, homosexual
men, brainless women, sex, bodily functions (over and over again!), and
more of the same, repeatedly. No story, no acting, no thought, no
point. I was the first one out of the theater and never looked back.

What a total waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought the first movie was bad... but this, this is the definition
of a horrible movie, terrible acting with a stupid story and awful
humor, this crap didn't even make me laugh once. I advise you to not
watch this movie ever in your life unless you want to throw away an
hour and a half of your life. Adam Sandler just can't make funny movies
anymore. Do not watch this waste of time. I remember watching Kevin
James on the king of queens and that is a really funny show, I really
don't know why he is also constantly in movies that aren't funny. I
guess its a way to make a quick buck in the industry, stick to real
comedies, like This Is The End. Its a very funny movie :) Don't get me
wrong, old adam sandler movies are funny, but he doesn't have the touch
anymore.
<|_=00=_|>
Sandler's first sequel, is even lazier, dumber, and even less funny
then I could have imagined. It's worse than most comedy sequels, and
worse then most movies period. It's worse than Grown Ups, for heaven's
sake! There's no plot, none, zip, nada. Characters and gags are set up
without payoff much like in Jack and Jill. Almost every attempt at a
joke falls flat. Anyone who wants to make a comedy should watch Grown
Ups 2 as an example of one that does almost everything wrong and what
to and what not to do when directing and making a mainstream comedy.

Almost every joke in this movie is pointless, absolutely pointless. The
movie's first joke: a deer wanders into Sandler's house where it pees
in Sandler's face. In a movie that had actual though: this would happen
not just because a deer peeing on a man is funny, but for some reason
that has a point, maybe to show that the family had moved out of the
city and into the country. There is no point, none and only the dumbest
of the audience will find this amusing.

Grown Ups 2 is worse then the first and is a close 2nd as the worst
Sandler movie ever made, nothing in this movie had a point, there is no
plot, the whole movie and setup basically everything was lazy and Rob
Schneider may have actually made one of his best decisions ever by
skipping out on not only one of the worst sequels ever but one of the
worst comedies I've seen in a long, long time. 1 out of 10. Skip this
movie and go see Pacific Rim or read a book or go outside, Do
Anything!! Just Avoid this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Went to see this and wish I could have worked all day instead!!! This
was an absolute waste of time and money. Waste of my money for paying
to see this crap and super waste of money spent on making this garbage.
It has some funny moments, most of which are shown in the previews, but
there is no real flow or storyline. It has some solid actors in it too,
which is a shame, because it seems to me that if they cared about their
careers at all, they should have been able to read the script and see
that it would not work. I assure you, if you are over 12...no, over 7
years old, you will leave disappointed... Please don't waste your money
too!!!!!!!!!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Despite being universally panned by critics and movie goers, Grown-Ups
managed to perform well enough at the box office to warrant a sequel.

The plot follows Lenny (Adam Sandler) who has moved his family to the
town he and his friends grew up in, there he meets up with his friends
(Kevin James, David Spade, Chris Rock and Nick Swardson.

With the exception of a few additional cast members and many failed
attempts at teaching morals, this movie is essentially the first movie.
There's virtually no progression of story or character development,
it's just one lame gag and pratfall after another.

If you enjoyed the first movie, i say wait for a rental. For everyone
else, go and see Pacific Rim instead.
<|_=00=_|>
When I heard that a second Grown Ups movie was coming out I was
immediately excited. Being a a huge fan of the first one; my
expectations were very high for the second. Obviously too high. This
film had basically no point or plot at all. It was incredibly
disappointing. I barely laughed at all. All of the jokes and humor was
unbelievably crass and perverted. The movie was just plan dirty. The
first one had its moments but this one felt like a big "one of those
moments." The dialog was disappointingly gross in the end. Giving this
a 3 out of 10 still seems a little to high and mighty even for this. I
wasted my money. Don't waste yours and don't see this lame excuse for a
sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
Half way through this movie I stopped it and watched "Sharknado"...The
best actor in this movie was a giant ex-NBA player-and he was
horrible...Congress should preemptively pass a law forbidding the
making of 'Grown Ups 3"...This is the first non-horror film to cause me
to have nightmares...After watching this, I now hate the first "Grown
Ups"...Forced viewing of this movie should replace water boarding at
Guantanamo Bay...All who read this, it's too late for me, but please
save yourselves and don't watch this film...SERIUOSLY FOLKS: I DID NOT
LAUGH AT ONE JOKE THIS ENTIRE MOVIE. A disaster from the opening
credits reverting to cheap, bathroom humor throughout. Honestly, this
was the first movie I've ever watched with no storyline. I will be VERY
apprehensive about EVER watching anything with this cast again.
<|_=00=_|>
Grown Ups was alright in my opinion. I tend to enjoy almost any film
that is thrown in my direction for some reason or another. Grown Ups
had a few laughs which put the label of 'Alright' on it. Below average,
but watchable.

Grown Ups 2, however, is the worst film I have ever watched. Seriously,
if you can find a film that is more terrible than Grown Ups 2, please
enlighten me. I mean, was this wrote by a five year old? Who can tell.
The humour is astoundingly bad, there simply isn't a plot or a moral to
the story and the entire film will just leave you cringing. I know one
or two people who would like this, but those people also have the worst
sense of humour that I have ever encountered.

How this was released, I do not know. It is simply a terrible film and
I cannot find one good aspect about it. And to think Adam Sandler was
once a good actor for a few years. 

1/10. Never gave that to a film before. At least, not that I can
remember.
