
I honestly thought it was way better than the first. This movie is
ridiculous, the whole scenario is ridiculous which is what makes it
funny. The three main actors have the best synergy. Three morons who
try to kidnap a millionaire's son for ransom, you can only imagine the
chaos that ensues. I really enjoyed it, but the humour is a little
silly so it's not for all. You either going to like it or hate it, more
specifically Charlie Day. A lot of people complain about his voice, but
personally I thought he was one of the funniest. One thing is for sure,
this movie does not deserve a 6. It's well above 6 and should easily be
ranking 7-7.5 score.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't normally review films as plenty of people manage to put across
a good enough review. I feel so angry about how bad this film is that I
really need to warn you about how bad it is. It's not funny and it's
boring to add insult to injury. It does have a couple of funny moments
in, but for a comedy film, that's nowhere near enough. The acting is
bad, the script is bad, the plot is even worse. I don't need to say any
more as you'll either watch it anyway or have watched it and are
looking for reviews to prove you're not alone in hating this film. This
is the second worse film I've seen this year behind Godzilla. I'm even
doubting that the first film was as funny as I remember.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like annoying babble with characters talking over each other,
you'll love HB 2. I found the relentless cross talk terribly
annoying... mostly because it occur so often in the sequel. 

Charlie Day as Dale Arbus was totally annoying.

The movie has moments of comedy, but many of the scenes are just ruined
by annoying babbling.

For me, Chris Pine was the standout actor and character. Kevin Spacey,
Jennifer Aniston and Jamie Fox all do a good job with their characters
too.

I was really looking forward to HB 2, as I liked the first movie. I
felt the plot had many holes in it and there was many actions that just
seemed to be put into the script just for a giggle - with no follow- up
or follow-through.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed the first movie, it was fresh, it was funny! But then they
made a second, with a poor storyline, and a so annoying Charlie Day, it
literally made me want to rip my face off. His voice was so squeaky,
and forever on-going, I finished that film with a god awful headache. I
know the three of them are meant to make bad decisions constantly
because it's part of the humor of the show, but for me, all it was, was
extremely exhausting, and it was mainly to do with Charlie Cox being
the squeaky, childish idiot, who can't keep his mouth shut. Seriously,
if you want a headache after watching a movie, watch this, but if not,
steer way clear because this movie stinks.
<|_=00=_|>
Horrible Bosses 2 is a great movie with a well written storyline and an
outstanding comedic cast.The first Horrible Bosses is certainly
better,but this sequel this totally holds up and delivers many very
entertaining and laugh out loud scenes.The three leads are still in
great form the second time around and you can tell that Bateman,Sudekis
and Day are all great friends,and they are joined by a star studded
supporting cast that includes Christoph Waltz,Chris Pine,Jennifer
Aniston,Jamie Foxx,Kevin Spacey and Breaking Bad's Jonathan Banks.Pine
would have to be my favourite out of the supporting cast,his character
had the best dialogue and he was surprisingly great at comedy.The movie
thankfully dosen't follow the same premise as the first,which is
something that a lot of comedy movies do and I was very grateful that
they took a very different approach from the first.Packed with tons of
laughs and a great cast,I would definitely recommend Horrible Bosses 2
to fans of the first and to anyone looking for a good comedy. 

After they fail to get an investment from a very successful business
man,Nick,Kurt and Dale decide to kidnap his son to receive the money
they need to run the business. 

Best Performance: Jason Sudekis Worst Performance: Lindsay Sloane
<|_=00=_|>
2 Star. 1 star for Jennifer Aniston 1 star for Kevin Spacey

A comedy should be funny. Movie was not funny. They (Nick, Kurt and
Dale) are just retards running around trying to be funny. I wanted to
give one more star because they managed not to get them-self killed,
but then again that would have prevented HB3. *** Spoiler *** Saying
name over walkie repeatedly even it was pointed out they shouldn't.
Keep talking in walkie about nothing while breaking into office.
Holding button so other cant talk. And that is just one scene. Jennifer
Aniston is still hot though, and only reason I saw movie ½ way through.
And the 10 line rule is stupid.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought the first Horrible Bosses was just tedious despite the cast
and the promising premise. However, people loved it and it made enough
money to guarantee an unnecessary sequel which this movie definitely
is. Horrible Bosses 2 is a simple cashgrab that repeats the same
schtick as the original, but with even worse results despite once again
having a good cast.

Good: I like the cast involved and especially Chris Pine who is
thankfully showing off his funnier side with his recent movies.

Bad: The comedy here was obviously a lot of improvisation between Day,
Sudeikis, and Bateman and it doesn't work. It is just a lot of talking
over each other and being loud. It is grating to watch and the fact
that it continues throughout the movie gets annoying quick. The jokes
all fall flat and more misuse of Kevin Spacey and Christoph Waltz.

Overall, it is just an unfunny sequel that goes for more of the same
with ten times the annoyance.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is nothing more than an horrific experiment: is the audiences
taste is nonexistent? Are they so simple that they'll like a shallow
story and same 'ol jokes for dummies?

Horrible Bosses 2 is not dumb, it's dumber. The humor is immature (I
guess, that's a standard for nowadays so-called-comedies), plot is flat
as an hand-egg field, but the worst part is the yelling and the
"idiocracy" of the main characters. They yell almost all the time,
talking all at once, screaming words and dancing their erratic dance of
"having nothing better to do with themselves cause of that nonexistent
quality of the script"*. So they yell, scream and... And they are
dumber then Lloyd Christmas and Harry Dunne from "Dumb and Dumber". But
Lloyd and Dunne are likable - they are just two heavy cases of idiocy,
of being dumb - two dumb chumps, funny and sweet in their dumbness,
with some characteristics, a soul - one could say. What about Nick,
Dale and Kurt? Nothing. They are soulless and mindless, without the
spark of life - characters that you'll forget in no time cause they're
like thousands more produced by so many. And I guess it's not entirely
actors fault, no. It's the script, the director and so on. This movie
is almost as bad as Jack and Jill, but less entertaining for sure.

*that's the name of the ancient Indian dance
<|_=00=_|>
A continuation of the Horrible Bosses series, this second in the series
hits a bit more about the complexity of striking out on your own. The
three amigos in Nick Hendricks, Kurt Buckman, and Dale Arbus take a
risk in establishing their brand of shower heads and seek a stake in
the business world. What they discover is that is much more of doggie
dog world than they expected. Has a large well known cast from Kevin
Spacey, Jaimie Foxx, and Christoph Waltz. Jennifer Aniston is the
nastiest I have seen in this film and does push the cougar sex craze
angel to the limits. As the trio strike out on their own, they soon
discover they need plan b if they want to be able to compete in the
world of business. This plan B is not perfect but helps them find a
path to being their own bosses.
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood's strategy of wringing every last ounce of life out of a
successful idea via sequels, prequels, spin-offs and the
"partification" of films has been discussed to death. At this point I'm
almost as tired of having that discussion as I am seeing the subject at
hand play out in real life, over and over again. It is with this
mindset that, upon seeing the trailer for Horrible Bosses 2 for the
first time, I loudly sighed in my theater seat and thought to myself,
"Why the hell are they doing this?" And despite the actual answer being
EASY MONEY, after actually seeing Horrible Bosses 2, I can honestly
make a case that maybe  just maybe  these people actually wanted to
get together again and make a funny movie for the sake of comedy.
Exhibit A: The jokes are solid and, in most cases, funnier than the
first film's. Part of that is a result of just letting a joke breathe
and flourish naturally via timing and delivery. One gag in particular
regarding the use of walkie-talkies nearly made me choke on my popcorn
specifically because of how well it was executed through dialog alone.
The first Horrible Bosses was more comparable to The Hangover films in
that a group of white guys get in over their head and endure insane
circumstances, each one more outlandish than the one before it. This
time around, while we're still very much in the Hangover spirit of
storytelling (I use that term in the loosest of senses), the film is
much more reliant upon the comedic chemistry between our three leading
men. That leads me to

Exhibit B: This cast is simply fantastic. Reprising their roles as Nick
(Jason Bateman) the straight man, Kurt (Jason Sudeikis) the womanizer,
and Dale (Charlie Day) the fool, the three stars of this film bounce
lines off one another like bumper cars to increasingly hilarious
effect. Bateman shines brightest and that speaks volumes on his talent
considering he's been playing variations of this role for nearly his
entire career without the shtick showing any signs of wear  at least
as far as this film is concerned. Sudeikis and Day get to play human
cartoon characters the entire film and it simply just works. Also back
is Jamie Foxx as the criminal consigliere, "Motherf***er Jones." While
this character did nothing for me the first go-round, this time I find
myself enjoying his dimwitted power plays and Big Gulp inflected sit-
downs. Jennifer Aniston also returns as her sex-addicted dentist from
the first film and gets to appear in the funniest scene of Horrible
Bosses 2. Newcomers Chris Pine and Christoph Waltz also bring a welcome
exaggerated Big Business brass ballsiness element to the film's central
plot that just makes the story that much more relevant. Speaking of the
plot

Exhibit C: This story is conducive to comedy as well as being socially
relevant. Nick, Kurt and Dale have created a product that Christoph
Waltz agrees to help manufacture. Once the order has been completed,
Waltz's character then cancels the order in a strategy that will allow
him to purchase the product at pennies on the dollar once our three
heroes have to claim bankruptcy. In a climate where we are mistrusting
of the unscrupulous 1%, this plot has a sort of resonance that hits
home with modern movie goers. I'm also fairly certain that more folks
can relate to being screwed over by their boss (or the boss's conniving
underling) than they can to their mega-hot co-worker trying to seduce
them against their will. Basically, this film corrects every issue I
had with the first one in that it unifies the protagonists motivations
with the audience's desire for them to stick it to the man. It reaches
across the aisle and finds a middle ground we can all agree on  and
then it amps it up to mach speed by way of kidnap, hostage taking and
much worse.

With all this praise you might think I'm ready to call this a modern
comedy classic. I'm not. Horrible Bosses 2 has problems. It's not shy
to rely on gross-out gags, it has no shame in reprising jokes from the
first film (albeit sparingly so), and it might as well have been
directed by Apple CEO Tim Cook because, as Erik Walkuski of ScreenCrush
noted in a tweet, Horrible Bosses 2 looks like it was filmed on an
iPhone. That is to say there is no personality to the look of the film.
It just is. While that's not a major concern for a comedy, it does
leave a bit to be desired in the aesthetics department.

I present my case that Horrible Bosses 2 is a win for everyone.
Hollywood will make a nice payday while being able to say, "See! People
want more of the same" without a hint of irony to be found. Audiences
will get to laugh for a straight 110 minutes in the company of
characters they already know they like spending time with based on the
success of the first film. And although this could mean "more of the
same" is all we're ever going to get, I'd like to put a positive spin
on things and hope that maybe someone behind the scenes is paying
attention. Maybe, just maybe, someone will pick up on the fact that
this film is better than the first because it's actually just better in
every sense of the word. Probably not though. *a football hits me in
the groin and a laugh track explodes from an unknown dimension*
