
DIRECTOR: Good afternoon, sirs! I came in today because I was stoned
out of my mind earlier and I thought of the best idea for a movie ever!
STUDIO: Alright, we're listening! DIRECTOR: So, like, in the near
future, the government will allow 12 hours of crime a year! Like,
murder will be legal and stuff! STUDIO: Okay, cool! Why? DIRECTOR:Uh...
well... because if people go crazy on one day, then they won't need to
do any other crimes the rest of the year! Because all crimes are
created by random murderous passions, right? ONLY SMART GUY IN THE
ROOM: Why don't the rich people just leave the country? That's the
worst idea I- STUDIO: That's so original! People will eat that up. And
it can double as a shallow social commentary! DIRECTOR: Uh... yeah...
social commentary. I know what that is. Anyways, I got Lena Headey and
Ethan Hawke to sign on! STUDIO: Fantastic! I bet you have lots of good
dialogue to go between them.

DIRECTOR: Yeah... good dialogue... I know what that is. Anyways, the
dad sells these security systems and the mom is... well... a mom, I
guess. She can sulk a lot. And the older female kid can be a "typical"
sulky teenager who is completely brain dead! She won't see anything
suspicious when her much-older boyfriend, who her father disapproves
of, sneaks into her house on the night murder is legal and says he's
come to see her dad! And the also brain-dead boyfriend can botch his
low-awaited parent killing by yelling out the dad's name before
shooting! He'll die and then the shocked girlfriend will cry and then
wander around the dark house by herself for no reason! ONLY SMART GUY
IN THE ROOM: Uh, why would the boyfriend think she'd continue to date
him after he killed her dad? That's an awful and unnecessary i- STUDIO:
Perfect! It'll be tense when she wanders around because we really care
about her character! Who else is there?

DIRECTOR: Well, there'll be another son with that awful super-long hair
that's popular with horror movie boys nowadays! He'll be reclusive and
play with creepy remote control dolls and he'll be the only moral
character in the movie while being completely moronic! He will shut
down the security system without letting his parents know in order to
let a homeless guy in, and then he'll hide him, even though that means
his whole family will die. And then, when he sees his sister about to
go hide in the same spot, he won't yell out or warn her or anything!
And then even later on, he'll hide in the basement and STILL let one of
the invaders sneak up behind him, even though he has a gun! STUDIO: He
sounds so lovable! What about the other characters? Are they dumb too?
DIRECTOR: Oh yeah, super dumb! For example, the dad will have a
complete 180 degree moral change halfway through the movie even though
he sees the purge first hand, as if he didn't already know about it
because he sells security systems for the purge! And then, he won't
even untie the guy he's saving so he can help! He's completely
retarded. And then there's the wife! Instead of hiding and having the
advantage against the invaders, she can get up and wander around so she
can be snuck up on! And then she won't shoot the guy who's threatening
to kill her daughter because... well... she's stupid! And finally, the
lead bad guy will try to kill the main character, but stops and leaves
after giving him a flesh wound in the stomach! And then gets snuck up
on, too! 

STUDIO: That's wonderful! Movie goers are much more likely to cheer for
stupid characters than intelligent ones! DIRECTOR: Oh and the invaders
will wear masks like "The Strangers"! STUDIO: Great, that movie was
terrifying! ONLY SMART GUY IN THE ROOM: No it wasn't, that movie was
awf- DIRECTOR: I'll be sure to include the max amounts of clich√©s, too!
Like, a bad guy will be ABOUT to kill a main character, but there'll be
a dramatic pause before he does, and seconds before it happens, he'll
get killed from behind! STUDIO: Genius! That should happen AT LEAST 4
times.

DIRECTOR: And for the icing on the cake, the invaders will be like
cultists and recite prayer-like incantations dedicated to America and
the "new founding fathers" because that's what would happen in real
life, right? STUDIO: Perfect! Let's get this movie made. ONLY SMART GUY
IN THE ROOM: **** this, I quit.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the unfortunate pleasure of getting to see the movie "The Purge"
at the 10 O'clock premiere last night. To be honest, going into it, I
didn't expect much. I didn't really know a lot about the film aside
from seeing a couple trailers here and there and hearing customers
blabber on about how excited they were for this movie (I work at a
movie theater). I guess the concept sounded kind of interesting, and
really, I just felt like seeing a movie I hadn't seen yet. My
expectations were blown away; the movie was worse than I had originally
assumed. "The Purge" pretty much just stinks from beginning to end.
However, it does have a few slightly redeeming factors.

Okay, I lied. "The Purge" has only one redeeming factor; and it's how
hilariously bad the dialog is. As soon as the movie starts and we are
introduced to Ethan Hawke driving in his car, talking on the phone.
Right off the bat I could tell that the script for this movie was
really poorly written. All the lines sound incredibly forced and
unrealistic. For example, when Ethan Hawke first arrives home he says
something along the lines of "Hey, hey! what a long day at work!". All
of the characters, especially Ethan Hawke's character, say things one
would never say in real life. This is the one good(ish) thing about
this movie. How hilariously terrible the dialog is. I was laughing
pretty much throughout, at just about every line. Now, to be fair,
other things may have influenced my laughter, or intensified it,
rather. But overall the dialog is just completely unrealistic. Realism.
That is my biggest issue with this movie: it's lack of realism. 

Let us begin with perhaps the most painfully unrealistic part of "The
Purge": the plot. The idea behind this whole futuristic America is that
the Economy is down and Crime is up. It is just universally accepted
that the cause of all these problems is built up aggression within the
human population. In order to correct this, the United States
Government decides that it would be a good idea to give the public a
day to "release the aggression". So, one day of each year, they will
have an annual "Purge" where all crime is legal (including murder. They
put a lot of emphasis on murder being legal). Somehow, magically, this
does help the Economy and Crime overall is down for the rest of the
year. Because if people get out all that anger in one day, they will
not feel the need to commit any more crimes for the rest of the year..
(yeah.. right..) I'm calling bull sh*t on this one. This would never
EVER never ever ever work or even be considered in real life. I
understand that not all movies need to be realistic to be good, but
this movie is kind of trying to go for a realistic feel. It's clearly
not supposed to be a Sci Fi film. 

Now, not only is the dialog bad in "The Purge", but so are the
characters. The main characters throughout the movie consistently make
stupid decisions and totally change their opinions in the blink of an
eye. But the worst characters of them all have got to be "the bad
guys". I'm gonna call them "the bad guys" because there were a lot of
them, and I don't remember their names if they were even given. Without
spoiling anything (if you still want to see the movie) at one point
there is a group of people that approach the house to terrorize Ethan
Hawke and his family. This group is heavily armed and set on killing
off the filth of society or "the swine" as their leader constantly
calls them.(He also uses words like "tootaloo" and "folks") For no
particular reason they all wear clown masks, dresses, suits, etc. They
jump around, act goofy, scream, laugh and play on swing sets... I think
this was all meant to make the movie a bit more creepy and eerie, but
it just felt forced and left me cringing throughout. There was nothing
to justify why they were acting like circus performers. 

The ending was disappointing. There are numerous moral issues brought
up throughout the film. None of them are solved. In the end, some
people die, some people live, and it's just over. It's almost like
James DeMonaco just gave up, and couldn't figure out how to end the
movie in a decent way. So he just threw together a little stupid
humorous bit at the end. I suppose this is to be expected with James
DeMonaco though. Pretty much every project he has ever touched has been
bad. 

"The Purge" is not at all worth seeing. It's not scary. It's not
suspenseful. It's not realistic. It's not well written. It's not
anything. It's just terrible.
<|_=00=_|>
The idea is intriguing. For twelve hours a year all crime is legal,
including murder; do what you want and face no consequence. All
emergency services are suspended and with the exception of an
unexplained restriction on weaponry, and certain members of the public
being out of bounds as targets, there is nothing to stop you doing what
you wish. The result is a venting of frustration and anger, a purging
of demons, as well as the eradication of the poor and those unable to
defend themselves. The end result of this annual purge is extremely low
unemployment and crime, and a fantastic economy; "a nation reborn",
where the weak are prey and the strong survive. One of the strong is
James Sandin, who sells security systems to fellow high-flyers; these
obviously come in most useful on the night of the purge. Of course on
the night in question, things go rather wrong and the Sandin family
find their home under siege, following their son Max's generous act of
letting a victimised stranger in.

For a second, put aside the rather obvious holes in the idea when
considered as a practise encouraged at a national level, even put aside
the cynical nature of the movie, and we can see the idea may have
started out as a distressing vision of a near future, a terrifying
"other reality". Indeed, 'The Purge' takes its cue from a lot of
previous work that has done similarly; you don't have to look too hard
to see various elements of 'A Clockwork Orange', '1984', 'Lord of the
Flies' and 'Battle Royale'. The problem is that unlike those works, and
unlike 'Straw Dogs', with which it shares more than a little DNA, this
story has been watered down to a locked room domestic thriller; a
potentially incendiary political fable is devoid of most of that which
would have made it so. This is actually typical of writer/director
James DeMonaco, who is responsible for the screenplay for the remake of
'Assault on Precinct 13', a film which again extracted a lot of the
original's rough edges and tough moments to leave a flat, action driven
thriller. Similarly, the scope of the film is rather narrow; with early
implication that there will be a study of repressed violence and how
the night is used as an excuse, it is then disappointing to see the
story steers frustratingly wide of all matters other than murder. The
film lacks the gumption to tackle the disturbing elements of our
unchecked nature in a way that Cronenberg would have done.

So what we're looking at here is a film which, in different hands may
have proved to be a controversial and stirring piece of work, but with
DeMonaco scared to grasp the nettle, we end up with a flat, rather tame
film, which is given some lift by its better elements, such as the
performances and some of the fight sequences. Lacking bite, with a
frustrating amount of exposition and not enough dissection of issues,
'The Purge' falls short of what it should have been.

This is not to take away from Ethan Hawke's solid performance, or some
of the more effective scenes, but what we would give to have seen this
in the hands of Michael Haneke.
<|_=00=_|>
From the producers of Paranormal Activity (as is all horror films these
days) The Purge tells the story of a near future were crime is at an
all time low and unemployment stands at under 1% of the US population,
to compensate for one night a year all crime (including murder) is
legal for 12 hours allowing society some kind of release. 

The film revolves around the Sandin family who are confronted by a
group of college students hunting a man on the night of the Purge who
the family had allowed into their home after lockdown. The Purgers
(lead by Rhys Wakefield) drastically try to break into the family's
home causing James (Ethan Hawke) and Mary (Lena Headey) to protect
their children from the invaders in order to survive the night. 

The main problem with the film is the premise itself, whilst
interesting is filled with flaws and holes that just make the whole
idea ridiculous. Such as what happens to the serial killers and career
criminals of this world? Do they just control their urges to kill or
steal for the other 364 days until the next Purge, as well what if
someone has a heart attack on the night of The Purge? Is it just a case
of bad luck you chose the wrong night to need medical care?

Despite the flaws of the premise, the film repeatedly ignores the
possibilities of the premise, instead of exploring the ideas behind the
Purge or the events that occur on the night of the Purge from different
perspectives and situations. Instead the film settles for a typical
home invasion story that although done well, is nothing we haven't seen
done in many other films. The Purge in the end seems to only be the
premise of this film to stop the age old question of "Why don't they
just call the police?" in home invasion films. 

To the films credit it is quite subtle, there's a running theme that
the Purge is just an excuse for the upper classes to exterminate the
poor, driven by all the attackers wearing prep school blazers and the
person they are chasing wearing dog tags around his neck. The film also
contains some strong performances, especially from Ethan Hawke
(Training Day, Lord of War) and Lena Headey (Dredd, Game of Thrones)
who carry the film throughout. The film also has a twist near the end
which allows the audience to get inside the heads of the people during
this night. 

That cant be said for the leader of the Purger's played by Rhys
Wakefield (Sanctum, Home and Away)whose performance is slightly cringe
worthy, hes trying to be psychotic yet in control of the proceedings
but it just comes across as a amateur dramatics' version of The Joker.
He just never seems like a really threat and just a creepy next door
neighbour. 

The film also contains some bizarre and just plain weird set pieces,
such as the families' son who builds a spy camera on a chard baby doll
on the top of a rhino tank from Warhammer 40,000. The thing looks like
a demented contraption from Sid's bedroom in Toy Story. 

Overall, The Purge is an OK home invasion film, there are moments of
suspense and a couple of jump scares are effective. The wasted
potential of the premise is the films main downfall which could have
lead to a more effective and possible original film then what we got in
the end.
<|_=00=_|>
Humans have a natural instinct as predators to kill, but society forces
us to repress these feelings by living in a ''civilized''
way....according to new Ethan Hawke led film The Purge, a very
interesting concept of a film, which explores a future society in which
all crime is allowed for one night a year...

It's 2022 (not actually that far away), and unemployment in America is
1%, crime is at an all-time low, and generally, everybody seems happy,
especially James Sandin (Hawke), a rich citizen who makes his fortune
selling security systems for houses to use during the annual Purge.
Basically the reason why unemployment and crime is so low is because,
for one night a year, a Purge occurs, where all crime (murder, raper
robbery, the whole lot) is made legal, and no police or emergency
services are allowed to interfere. Mad. But also intriguing. James and
his family happily avoid the Purge by using a security system outside
their large house while the rest of society kills each other, but all
that changes when their youngest son Charlie decides to let a stranger
into the house......

This starts off as a really captivating film, the concept of legal
crime kept me hooked, but soon enough, it descends into a stereotypical
action film where Ethan Hawke fights off gangs from his house with a
variety of handguns,and all originality gets lost in a haze of bullets
(literally). The short running time (85mins) and variety of twists
every 5 minutes makes sure that it doesn't get too boring, so overall a
decent watch, but nothing that provokes any thinking afterwards.

6/10- A lesser version of Panic Room
<|_=00=_|>
Watched this based on the fact it had an interesting, original idea and
good ad campaign...

The reality is that 'The Purge' is one of the worst movies I have ever
seen - an original idea is ruined by huge plot holes, annoying, clich√©d
and unbelievable characters, bad acting and scripting, and an absurdity
that goes beyond 'Sci-Fi' or suspending your disbelief...

Rather than being scary, tense or exciting it was just incredibly
irritating - watching characters doing the most stupid things
throughout that made you repeatedly ask the question "WTF did they do
THAT for?"... The woman sat next to me in the cinema was chuckling to
herself throughout and at the end climax everyone in the cinema was
laughing at how ridiculous and absurd it had all become - was it
actually meant as a thriller or a comedy? It started off promisingly
and went downhill very quickly indeed...

As soon as you pick through the plot holes and how dumb the purge
killers are for cutting off the power to the Sandin's house when they
have just asked them to hand over the homeless guy they are harbouring
inside you can no longer take any of it seriously at all... Maybe it's
because had they NOT cut the power and the lights in the house there
would be no movie left and this ordeal would have ended even more
prematurely than the 85 mins I had to suffer... The actions of those
involved make no sense and the whole feeling of the movie is that as
long as you have money then screw everybody else in society...
<|_=00=_|>
James DeMonaco's "The Purge" operates on a premise that is so stupid
that you feel like throwing rotten fruit at the screen, or maybe the
director. As you're watching it, you hope that the screenplay will make
up for its insipid ideas with a logical explanation, but no, this is
one of those movies where all of the players end up running around in
the dark shooting and killing one another in the manner of a video
game. To our intense surprise, it can't even get that right.

By now, you've heard the premise, which has been spilled out in endless
ads running on television. In the year 2022 the United States is now
controlled by a series of corporations known as "The New Founding
Fathers of America", who have devised an annual ritual so idiotic that
no one can adequately explain it: Every year, on March 21st all crime
is legal between the hours of 7pm and 7am ¬ñ even murder. No police or
medical services will be available. The government's explanation
(you'll love this) is that they are trying to keep the population under
control. They figure, given one night of violence, the populace will
behave themselves for the other 364 days of the year. You could write
volumes on the flawed reasoning behind this.

It hardly matters anyway because once that idea is set in place "The
Purge" turns into an ugly, violent home invasion thriller centered on a
nice family, The Sandins, headed by James (Ethan Hawke) and his wife
Mary (Lena Headey). They have two kids, teenage daughter Zoe (Adelaide
Kane) and young Charlie (Max), who loves surveillance. James has made
himself rich by becoming the developer of a home security system that
will protect wealthy families from the purge. The Sandins are convinced
that they are safe, but having seen the trailer ¬ñ and countless movies
like this ¬ñ we know this isn't the case.

As the purge begins the family closes themselves inside the house
behind thick sheets of metal which cover the windows and doors. A short
time later, Charlie sees a homeless man on the surveillance camera
wandering the street in front of the house. The man is bleeding and
begging for shelter. The kid lets the man in, but soon his pursuers
come calling, assuring James that they will get past his security
system within the hour. What follows is a plot similar to David
Fincher's "Panic Room." The difference is that that film used logic and
characters to set up a unique cat and mouse game. "The Purge" uses
creepy-masks, shotguns and bad editing to create phony jack-in-the-box
terror. It recycles clich√©s, like having the family split up into
different rooms so one person can emerge later in order to save another
person who is about to be killed.

Somewhere in this insufferable mess, a message emerges about social
justice and the tyranny of the "haves" over the "have-nots." It eeks
around the edges of the film but conveniently doesn't get in the way of
the repeated shots of someone getting blown to bits with a shotgun.
This is an ugly, grimy little movie that comes down to a sick scene in
which a mother painfully begs for her children's lives while they have
guns to their heads.

"The Purge" is a movie that gives you a lot of time to think. Ask
yourself this: Why didn't the Sandin's just leave the country for the
week of the purge? These are wealthy people, so why not just lock the
house down and take a trip to Europe? Why not Canada? Or Australia,
it's supposed to be lovely this time of year.

1/2 (out of four)
<|_=00=_|>
I am a movie theatre employee, so I saw this film last night at an
employee screening. Going into the movie, I was rather excited. The
concept is interesting, and has never been done before. While this
movie was not as scary as I had anticipated, I still thoroughly enjoyed
it. The antagonists were disturbing, and the movie really shows the
struggle between self-preservation and what's right. It is somewhat
short, but the makers certainly do get the job done. Plenty of
flashlight-and-pistol standoffs and suspenseful scenes make for a movie
with an interesting plot, and good acting. The ending was a bit
predictable, but did not ruin the movie in my opinion. Not the best
that I've seen, but overall a decent flick.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie with basically no expectations, yet I managed to be
quite disappointed. With competent actors such as Ethan Hawke and Lena
Heady, and a premise that (at least to me) sounded exciting, I don't
really know how they managed to ham it up this much.

It's' predictable to the point of being laughable, and the family
characters seem cut out of some template on basic movie-making. And the
"villains" brings little new to the table, copying the
home-invasion-psychopaths of Funny Games, The Strangers etc. (2
examples of it being done right, in my opinion).

I think this movie got a free ride on the hype it garnered online, with
a sleek campaign and major buzz on Twitter, proving that all a movie
really needs to make it is a brief, smart slogan and peoples
imagination and anticipation creates the rest.

Too bad for an interesting idea. Can't help to think that maybe another
director could've done something memorable with this.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie against my better judgement. Most of the reviews
on IMDb rate this movie somewhere between awful and horrible. I was
hoping that maybe they were being too harsh, they were not. I made the
mistake of thinking that Lena Headey and Ethan Hawke were both credible
actors. (I love Headey as the evil queen in Game of Thrones) whoever
wrote her dialog in this mess should be drawn and quartered. By the end
of this movie I was actually hoping that the "good guys" would get
killed just to keep them from having to suffer this script anymore.

All in all this is a bad movie, don't waste your money or your time
watching it. Trust me you'll thank me in the end.
