
Several years ago, a group of Los Angeles teenagers learned that they
could easily break into the homes of celebrities, keeping tabs on their
comings and goings online. This is their story, as told by Sofia
Coppola. Coppola is one of my favorite modern directors. Her previous
four films are generally about ennui-filled lives, and I can see what
attracted her to this story about these vapid social media- and
celebrity-obsessed kids feeding off the even more vapid celebrities
(they even pick the most awful celebrities imaginable to victimize,
like Paris Hilton, Lindsay Lohan and Megan Fox), but, in all honesty,
this story just has no conflict whatsoever, and the little jackass
teenagers who are at its center are so painfully uninteresting that,
after spending half an hour with them, I really wanted to walk out of
the theater. To boot, the plot is repetitive as Hell - teenagers break
into house, teenagers steal baubles, teenagers drive away like idiots
singing along with rap songs, teenagers do drugs, teenagers go out
dancing. The film goes through this cycle like six times before the
cops finally arrest them. The film is sometimes well shot (it was the
last film shot by master cinematographer Henry Savides), and there's at
least one killer sequence where the two main teens (Katie Chang and
Israel Broussard) rob a glass house where it's shot from quite a
distance (it's perhaps reminiscent of the glass apartments from Tati's
Playtime - I don't know if Coppola had that in mind). The most
recognizable stars in it are Harry Potter's Emma Watson and Leslie
Mann, who plays her mom. I'd actually call this the worst film I've
seen so far from 2013.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw an early screening of The Bling Ring and I have to say my
expectations were not met, in fact the movie did not even come close to
meeting them. When I heard that Emma Watson was going to be in a movie
about a group of teenagers robbing rich celebrities I have to say I was
intrigued. Add on top of that the fact that Sofia Coppola is the
director, she also made the excellent Lost in Translation, and I was
guaranteed to be seeing it sometime in theaters.

The film is based on the true story of a group of teenagers that lived
in or around Calabasas, California. Sometime during the period of
October 2008 through August 2009 the group, called the "Bling Ring",
stole about $3 million in cash and belongings from celebrities
including Paris Hilton, Orlando Bloom, and Lindsay Lohan.

It is a fascinating story and one that sounds like a terrific setup for
a film but the execution is terribly bland. If you have watched the
trailer for the film it seems like it is going to be an insane mashup
of partying scenes and what most people are going to be looking forward
to Emma Watson and her friends robbing celebrities left and right.
These scenes are in the movie but in the film they are not exciting or
insane in any way. The robbing scenes all start off with the group
looking up the celebrities house on the internet and then finding out
if they are out of town or not. They then proceed to just drive up to
the house, get out, walk up the driveway, walk around the house trying
to open doors, and then when they find an unlocked one just walk right
into the house. The filming is so lazy and simple that these scenes are
as exciting as watching your neighbor unlock his front door and go
inside after coming home from work. Then the actual robbing parts are
just the group picking up the celebrities valuables and then constantly
saying "Oh my god this looks hot!" Repeat this process for a good 20
times and you have the first 3/4 of the entire movie.

The characters in the film are based on the actual teenagers but their
names have been changed. Contrary to the film's marketing selling Emma
Watson as the main character she is actually not the ringleader of the
group. Instead it is a girl named Rebecca played by Katie Chang. The
film centers on Rebecca and her best friend Marc played by Israel
Broussard. Their acting is so average and their interactions are so
boring that it is hard to care for them at all. In fact the only above
average performance in the movie is from Emma Watson and surprisingly
she only plays a small role in the film until the end of the movie.

Altogether I am not sure who The Bling Ring was made for. The intended
audience appeared to be teenagers but with a R-rating most of that
audience is unable to pay to see it. But at the same time it cannot be
for this group because the film tries so hard to be artistic. Case in
point one of the heist scenes is a continuous shot of the exterior of a
house while the characters are running around inside of it for a good
four minutes. So the film is too slow to be for teenagers with small
attention spans but it is not relatable or intelligent enough for
anyone in their 20's or older. And as for those Emma Watson fans they
should be prepared to be disappointed because she is not even on screen
for a large portion of the movie.

The Bling Ring is a missed opportunity as it could have been an
exciting teenage heist film but is instead a film that tries to be
artsy and drags on for way too long. If you have to see it rent it on
DVD but otherwise you will not be missing anything.
<|_=00=_|>
Sofia please stop. Just for a second and consider that for those of us
who are less privileged than yourself - spending 10 Euros to see a film
is a lot of money. Asking us to sit in and watch your film for 90
minuteswell that is also quite a lot of time to ask. We (yes it was a
group of us) found your film to be lazy, boring and superficial.

At the start of the film it's declared that the film was based on a
Vanity Fair article  which says it all. It felt like the vanity fair
article, google, TMZ and YouTube were the only source of research for
this poor script. 

Sofia seemed to approach this film with the same degree of snideness
and holier than though attitude that I'm sure that same article evoked.
You cannot judge your characters negatively and then write about them.
As a result what you get is a bunch of shallow, one dimensional
characters like the ones I had to endure for so long. 'That's the
point'  you may say  'they are one dimensional, they are shallow'.
Well I looked up Emma Watsons real life character on YouTube  she had
much more depth than what Emma led us to believe and I was far more
intrigued by her than what was presented on screen. Instead Sofia wants
us just to laugh at these people - distance ourselves from them, put
our behaviour above them as well, that's easy and it's wrong.

For anyone reading this I implore you to wait to watch this on an
outlet that doesn't involve you wasting any of your hard earned money
because it's not worth it. I can promise you that. The story is about a
bunch of girls who seem obsessed in acquiring a celebrity lifestyle
through any means. We follow them rob houses, post things on facebook,
have silly conversations everywhere, driving, getting drunk and
generally playing cartoon characters. Everything is so easy and
inconsequential. The acting is so, so poor. The story is thin and
lazily handled. Little effort, be it staging, pace, thought, editing
has been invested into making this into any kind of legitimate film
worth thinking about. It actually made me bored  then angry  hence
why I am venting through IMDb.

We mustn't also forget that the director  Ms Coppola has a bag line 
yes, a bag line with Louis Vuittonerm just be weary of this when you
next go to see her many films about empty lives. I get that its best to
write what you know  but do it in an interesting, profound, humane way
 otherwise please don't bother.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie probably lacks everything you want out of a good movie. To
begin with there is no proper story, 90% of the movie is just kids
playing around with shoes and bags, the characters are never really
established or properly evolved, they are just there, doing things. The
acting is dull and the dialogs are annoying, I'm not sure if this was
intended to portray the bland L.A. wannabe lifestyle or just poor
writing and acting, either way, it's boring to watch. You will also
most likely want to slap some of these kids for being so vain and
stupid. The directing is good, not great, but good, and I like the
colour schemes in most of the scenes which gave the sense of the
washed-out pictures you find on Tumblr and Pinterest. There isn't much
action here either, you'd think in a movie about robbery would have
some cool Ocean's 11 type sequences or something but not, none of that,
most of the time the scene just cuts to when they are already in the
house partying. The court trial at the end is also mashed up into a
silly 5 second sequence where the court room door opens and closes.
Emma Watson, is isn't the lead, is overly in focus through out the
movie in a more than obvious attempt to sell her celebrity, in a movie
like this, I just found that ironic. In short watch this if you want to
see teenage girls play around with designer shoes and handbags.
<|_=00=_|>
Only one word can describe this movie: boring. I imagine there are
plenty of indie-loving, artsy types that loved it but I found it very
dull. There were a lot of nonsensical scenes that had no point and
didn't add to the story at all. One in particular saw the male lead
dancing and smoking weed in front of a night visioned camera by himself
for a good 2 minutes. Don't ask me what the purpose of that was; I just
don't know. The movie was sloppily cut and jarring in it's transitions
at times. Not to mention repetitive. How many times can you watch this
group of kids break in to Paris Hilton's house and try on hats? The
only saving grace was Emma Watson. She played her character's
self-centered, shallow, vapid nature with subtle believability. Other
than that, I'd say avoid this movie at all costs. The level of boredom
it conjures is mind-numbing at best.
<|_=00=_|>
It was based on an article and it feels like an article stretched out
into a film. 

I'm a fan of Sofia's work but this is crap. Incredibly two dimensional
and the point of the film is established almost immediately and then
drawn out from there. I understand what the film was trying to do but
it did it in an exceptionally boring way. 

Saw this in theaters and would have walked out if the ticket didn't
cost so much. 

Enough films about this Beverly Hills rich kid wanna-be celebrity
lifestyle. It's incredibly boring. 

Of the films I've seen this year, this is the worst. Spring breakers is
a very close second.
<|_=00=_|>
Sofia Coppola gets it, she gets this social media generation. How do I
know? I'm part of it. I know girls like this; the types that don't
believe something exists unless it's been posted on their Facebook,
Twitter or Instagram. In her latest film The Bling Ring, Coppola gives
us a vibrant portrait of a society thats culture is so lost it's hard
to decide who you hate more; wannabes or celebrities.

I was lucky enough to attend an early screening of The Bling Ring
tonight and if there's one word I could use to describe this film it
would be: precise. Every edit intricately planned to have a purpose.
Upon the first time viewing I don't blame people for missing it. The
Bling Ring is intentionally scattered, as if the film itself had a
serious case of ADD. The attention span of the edit is about as long as
the attention span of our narrators. At times when the narrative shifts
focus from one character to another the edit changes with them. If you
watch it closely you can almost see the film as a thought process, how
each character relives the crimes.

I loved the way this film was shot. It's interesting, the way we view
these characters is almost in the background, as if we the audience are
in fact the surveillance camera we remain distant from the people on
screen not understanding what drives them or even feeling the thrill of
robberies. Don't get me wrong there is tension, but only at very
interesting times that aren't because of the fear of the robbery. Even
scenes where they are almost caught are shown to us very flat trying to
detach us from the characters as much as possible.

I've always appreciated Sofia's slow moving dolly shots and they work
stunningly in this film. Rarely does a seemingly static shot hold an
audiences attention, especially one that takes place outside the house
that's being robbed; thanks to the sound design the low ominous tones,
as subtle as they are, really drive the scenes.

Emma Watson is fantastic. The way she portrays Nicki's vacant need to
fulfill her meaningless desires was striking and the accent and voice
inflections made the performance all the more impressive. Besides Emma,
most of the other girls are forgettable which I enjoyed; at times you
can confuse them with one another because they try so hard to be the
same style of person.

Another thing I loved is the amount of "selfies" these girls take. As
Coppola herself said it's as if "your experiences don't count unless
you have an audience watching them" and you can really feel that in
this film. None of the characters really have any "moments" despite
their attempts at proving it.

Overall I really enjoyed the film. The entire thing feels like this
giant master plan that will need multiple viewing to take in everything
Coppola was trying to say. While not as surprising as I thought it was
going to be the themes explored near the end of the film were worth the
fabulously detailed ride we knew to expect from the trailer.

The Bling Ring is a unique social commentary, which on the surface
layer is bound to be compared to Harmony Korine's Spring Breakers, both
giving us their take on sociopathic young teens. Where the films differ
thematically is the interesting part. You'll have to figure that one
out on your own.

For more review visit themoviebloggers.com
<|_=00=_|>
Sofia Coppola is one of the most interesting and divisive filmmakers
working today. It seems that with every new film she releases there's
always a wide array of responses, both positive and negative. And
that's very true with her new film, The Bling Ring. Some love it, and
some loathe it. I personally enjoyed it very much, and the more I think
about it, the more I like it and would maybe even see it again. It's an
interesting and atmospheric look at American celebrity and media
culture that bleakly shows how we can think being rich and famous can
make us "happy." 

The film is based on a Vanity Fair article about how in 2008, a group
of Californian teenagers (4 girls & 1 boy) stole millions-of-dollars
worth of clothing and jewelry and possessions from celebrities such as
Paris Hilton, Orlando Bloom, Megan Fox, and others. It's a
stranger-than- fiction kind of story that could lend itself to
exploitation, satire, or even heavy-handed moralizing, but Coppola
distances herself from the lurid material and simply displays it as a
set of facts. It's a cold, deadpan film, but there's several
fascinating moments of insight and darkly funny commentary that make it
interesting. It's been compared to Harmony Korine's similar film
"Spring Breakers," which also features several young girls trying to
experience the media's view of what a fun Spring Break is. Whereas that
film is knowingly repetitive in its dialogue and images and very
violent and exploitative to get its point across, Coppola goes for a
more restrained and almost documentary type of style. In fact, there's
several instances where the main action is interrupted and we see
scenes of the characters being interviewed after the events or TMZ-like
celebrity news stories. 

The Bling Ring is benefited by its central young actors who give
strong, naturalistic performances that feel so live-in that they give
an improvisational feel. The leaders of the Bling Ring are Marc (Israel
Broussard) and Rebecca (Katie Chang). Marc is the quiet, insecure gay
kid who soon is taken under the wing of Rebecca, who's troubled yet
confident and cold-as-ice. Broussard is charming and subtly sympathetic
and Chang is hyper-perceptive, smart, and cold but not without a
conscience. There's Chloe (Claire Julien), the loud and outgoing one in
the group. Then there's sisters Sam (Taissa Farmiga) and Nicki (Emma
Watson). It's interesting seeing Watson in a supporting role since
she's arguably the most famous out of the central gang, but it pays off
because of Nicki's larger-than-life, self-absorbed Valley Girl
personality. Watson is the scene-stealer of the film with her smart and
satirical performance that never goes over-the-top and always feels
real, which makes the character that much more misguided and tragic.
It's early to say something like this, but it's a performance that
deserves some Best Supporting Actress recognition. Also very good and
inspired here is the always funny Leslie Mann, who plays the flighty
mom of Sam and Nicki and teaches them the ever so spiritual teachings
of "The Secret." There's a scene near the end of the film between
Watson and Mann that is just pure, dark comedy gold. 

The plot mostly consists of the gang clubbing, breaking into houses,
driving around, and trying on clothes. It sounds repetitive, and well,
technically it is. But Coppola distinguishes each break-in with its own
tone and style and you can very subtly see how the characters change as
they become more and more comfortable with invading the houses. For
example, the break-in of Audrina Patridge's house is all done in one,
long take from outside, across the street as Marc and Rebecca rummage
through all her things and run from room-to-room and eventually leave.
Another break-in finds Sam cluelessly waving around Megan Fox's pistol
without a care in the world. And one of the film's most telling and
haunting shots comes when the gang is inside Lindsay Lohan's house and
Rebecca stares at the mirror and smiles so genuinely that it almost
seems like that's the happiest she's ever been. It's a truly disturbing
and haunting moment and the film is full of subtle images that let you
into the characters' psyche and ego. 

But the glue that holds the film together is the dynamic between Marc
and Rebecca. There's several poignant and moving moments between the
two characters that cut through the film like a knife and let you into
the ultimately empty and sad feelings the two characters have. Their
scenes and dialogue are so sharply drawn that it reminds you just how
gifted of a writer Coppola is as well. 

So this movie just worked for me. It's not a film that's trying to dig
deep into it's subject, and it's not even really interested in telling
you all of the details about this group of young robbers. It's
ultimately this odd, off-kilter tone poem that's beautiful to look at
and at times surprisingly poignant and hilarious. (And lastly I'd like
to mention the great and legendary work of cinematographer Harris
Savides, who, during shooting this film, passed away from brain cancer.
The film is dedicated to him.)
<|_=00=_|>
Sexy girls (+ the alibi loser) break into celebrity villas, steal from
them, get caught, go to jail. Most of the film I was just waiting that
they would be eventually get caught. Instantly Harmony Korine's Spring
breakers springs to mind. His film was much more innovative and
riskier. The hedonistic lifestyle needs a bold approach and in The
Bling ring it was not a roar but rather a meow. Korine's approach had
quite a similar storyline but because probably because of the boldness
of his film it was much more engaging. Also the characters in The Bling
Ring stayed one-dimensional: super-confident and defining themselves
through sex, clothes, looks, tattoos etc. The problem with such a one
dimensional characterisation is that that they all become too
predictable and the story becomes boring. We had the doubting boy and
then super-confident girls and that dynamics played out exactly the
same through the whole film. I see the point of the film showing the
girls empowered through their superficial qualities and driving the
break ins. Girl power gone in the wrong direction. No doubt it's an
important development in society but using these cardboard
characterisations creates a pretty boring film. Harmonie Korine's film
was much better by taking the hedonism and multiplying it by 100 and
having a story which turns more and more absurd to the end (girl power
multiplied by 100). Overall the Bling Ring did everything wrong what
Spring Breakers did bang on.
<|_=00=_|>
The collective level of vapidity on display in the Bling Ring might
(like totally) reach epic proportions.

Award-winning, insightful director, Sofia Coppola, has once again made
a film that is highly successful in portraying fame and celebrity ...
only this time she has turned the cameras onto those who obsess over
and covet the fame and celebrity others have.

The Bling Ring is a character study/meditation of a group of people --
based on real life individuals in SoCal -- with NO character
whatsoever. They are all beautiful bling on the outside with no inner
core of morality. They are shells of a mass emptiness who worship
others for merely having stuff they want ... or being on their TVs.

Coppola's story is based on real-life events of a group of five vacuous
and insipid teenagers (one boy and four girls) who used the internet to
track the whereabouts of their "celebrity" idols -- some were merely
"reality stars" -- so that when the stars were out of town the five
could play. The five would break into celeb houses and play with
beautiful things that belonged to Paris Hilton, Rachel Bilson, Orlando
Bloom, Audrina Patridge or ... their ultimate idol, Lindsay Lohan. They
also ended up pocketing and stealing a lot of designer goods and
merchandise (you know, like to wear and be cool with). They had fun and
bragged about their shenanigans at parties and on social media all the
while believing that they had done nothing wrong. One even believes
this happened in order for her to become more charitable -- her comment
on "karma" must be heard to be believed. Coppola wisely lifted this
line word-for-word as it is tragic comic gold.

Emma Watson (Harry Potter, Perks of Being a Wallflower) is the
most-recognizable face in the cast and she totally has the film's
bestest lines! Watson is a genius comedienne ... who knew? Her line
delivery and depiction of oblivious shame are perfect.

Coppola understands the world of fame and she has proved she also
understand the world of those who dream of it. This isn't a movie in
which characters learn life lessons and change ... this is a depiction
of people who believe they do no wrong (like never ever). It is
eye-opening because these people walk amongst us. The film is full of
face palm, jaw drop and eye rolling moments. Like ... a lot. Totally.
