
This is indeed racist and it's also misogynistic. Does this mean that a
movie with those qualities can't be funny? The movie knows it's racist
and (wow this word is overused lately) misogynistic . It's also
extremely funny. If you know you can't see past certain things like
that then I suggest you don't watch this movie. It's mean and and very
crude and hilarious. 

I was actually ashamed that I laughed at some of the jokes as I
consider myself to be a good person but they are so shamelessly
delivered by Bateman I just couldn't help myself. Young Rohan Chand was
very likable and held his own with Bateman who knows first hand about
what it takes to be a child actor. Turn off your media forced judgment
and just enjoy the movie. Even assholes can be funny.
<|_=00=_|>
It's very rare that I find myself lost in the narrative, characters and
the comedy that I forget altogether that I am watching a movie intent
on criticizing it. Jason Bateman's (Horrible Bosses, Up In the Air)
directorial debut Bad Words did just thatallow me to lose myself to
laugh so hard with such shocking moments that I almost forgot I had to
review the film.

Bad Words is a short, sweet and unexpectedly dark comedy with instances
of pure vulgarity and vileness that is at the same time,
heartwarmingyes, you read that right.

For one, Bad Words was the first ever straight-up comedy I have ever
experienced at TIFF. Of course, so many movies have heavy comedic
instances, but I can assure you, Bad Words will have you laughing so
hard, that at times, you'll find it hard to hear the next bit of
dialogue (I'm warning you from experience).

The film opens with unexplained genius Guy Trilby (Jason Bateman)
entering himself in a regional spelling bee, with a brief flashback
explaining how he has been able to register legally. From the moment
the movie starts, Bateman has the audience in tears and on the floor
laughing, winning the regional bee sending him off to the national bee,
in hot pursuit of all the angry parents and students who he beat at the
regionals. Once Bateman makes it to the super bowl of spelling bees,
The Golden Quill, along with his travelling documenting reporter
(Kathryn Hahn, We're The Millers), hilarity and vulgarity ensue.

The mystery behind Trilby's anger with the world, constant bitterness
and his obsession with winning the bee is at the centre of the film,
along with his inability to allow anyone get close enough for him to
care, drive the narrative. The blend of Bateman's dark direction and
stylistic choices, along with screenwriter Andrew Dodge's fiercely
morbid dialogue allow for the experience to be natural and so
unexpected. 

I have no idea if either Bateman or Dodge were inspired at all with the
work of Bobcat Goldthwait (World's Greatest Dad, God Bless America) and
his darkly satirical body of work, but if I was told that was another
addition to that list of black comedy, I would not doubt it. The
envelope is constantly being pushed in Bad Words. Each character Trilby
interacts with, whether it be for an extended period of time, or just
shortly, Bateman nails each and every scene with a natural sense of
arrogance. Trilby's scenes with "slumdog" (Rohan Chand), a lonely
prostitute on the street, or a victimized man going to a washroom
stall, are some of the best in the film.

Bateman undoubtedly has a keen eye for comedy. Rude, crude and
sometimes completely uncalled for, Bad Words was a pleasant change of
pace during TIFF and surely one of the most memorable comedies of the
year.

Expect Bad Words in a theatre near you. And the only thing bad about
it, is how much you will find yourself laughing at the most
inappropriate things, da*#it!

Night Film Reviews: 7.5/10 Stars
<|_=00=_|>
Thank you to Jason Bateman and all involved in making this film. It is
sad that movies like this are such a rarity . We live in a world of
idealism and of the studios putting out all of their god awful PG-13
movies or just plain god awful movies with solely profit in mind. It is
such a treat to have a movie that is not politically correct, and done
well. Nobody takes any risks. How can everyone stand for all of this
sanitized entertainment. Bateman was great like he always is, this
movie is hilarious!! To say this movie is racist is to say you have no
brain, there was no hate in this movie. Jokes and stereotyping is not
hate. People just love to ruin good entertainment for others. Thank you
for this movie!!!! We are lucky to get 1 movie a year that is as good
as this.
<|_=00=_|>
The storyline allowed for a lot of funny moments and the movie
definitely ran with it. It was hilarious and didn't stray from the plot
to include any unneeded jokes (this is what draws me away from most
comedies). The child, Chaitanya (Rohan Chand), was innocent and cute
enough to provide a nice contrast to the unscrupulous Guy (Jason
Bateman). With some heartwarming moments, this movie is more than just
a rude comedy. The comedy is raunchy and vulgar though so it definitely
takes a certain sense of humor to enjoy (sad to say that it is mine
lol). Also, a little predictable, but that doesn't take away from the
movie too much.
<|_=00=_|>
I was blown away by the surprisingly low "6.7" current rating on IMDb.
My theory: The easily offended were easily offended (perhaps the movie
should have been called "Bad Words").

(Some of my favorite comedies: Dumb & Dumber, Super Troopers, and Tommy
Boy).

Jason Bateman stared in, and directed, this "tightly" constructed DARK
adult comedy. There was not a wasted second or single "slow" moment in
the entire 89 minutes.

Everything was dead-on: The originality of the storyline, the casting,
the acting, the timing, the tone, and THE KID!... I've never been a big
fan of the "cute, heart-strings-pulling, kid" cliché, but you don't
have to be to appreciate this kid - he takes NOTHING away from the dark
humor, and only adds substantially to the film in every way. His
authenticity and interaction with Bateman's character is as good as it
gets (Roeper compared Bateman's spot-on apathy to Bill Murray's, and I
couldn't agree more - you could just as easily picture Murray working
his magic with the same degree of unflappability, esp. opposite such a
contrastingly upbeat kid).

Bateman is an unassuming Rock Star that let's his talents do the
talking, and I'm looking forward to the next film he directs and leads.
<|_=00=_|>
I feel compelled to review this because I believe some took this movie
too personally, and thus rated it poorly. 

If you are easily offended, you might be shocked or uncomfortable on
several occasions. If you understand this is an artistic work of
fiction, or if you like dark, sinister comedy, you can laugh at how
this movie relentlessly pummels you with awkward moments. My advice is
to cast away your moral standings in reality, and try see this movie
from another perspective.

To be vague, it turns out there's a method to the madness towards the
end. And for me, the underlying message made it worthwhile. Jason
Bateman was incredibly convincing in this role!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm pleased to report that I loved this movie, even though I expected
to hate it. Based on the previews, I expected that this movie would be
dull and creepy with formulaic, humorless, jokes. However, it was
interesting, funny, and not that creepy. Jason Bateman pulled off the
near impossible task of being a jerk when dealing with small children
while keeping the tone funny, rather than offensive. Even the
inherently creepy parts were more funny than creepy. 

Jason Bateman's inappropriate interactions with most of the child
actors were inappropriate in juvenile ways, and the juvenile humor
worked! Even the inappropriate interactions with co-star Rohan Chand
were sufficiently funny that the creepiness didn't hurt the movie. Bad
Words proves the comedic rule that: Mean or offensive jokes are
acceptable if sufficiently funny.
<|_=00=_|>
Out of the gate, Jason Bateman's Guy Trilby cracks up the audience with
his offensive humor and irreverent attitude toward everyone and
everything around him (even his sole ally, reporter Jenny Widgeon
(Kathryn Hahn), who capably plays a role likely too small by intention,
allowing Trilby freedom to run amok). It isn't until much later that we
learn his motivations, but they are largely irrelevant and contribute
little to the value of this film.

Bateman has proved before that his career renaissance, so to speak, is
not strictly married to the "nice guy" we met in Arrested Development
and revisited in Horrible Bosses; he has shown us in a variety of roles
that he can play a bona fide jerk (see for examples his pleasantly
unexpected appearance and performance in State of Play). But here, he
takes this over the top. His rhetoric is rarely, if ever, appropriate
to the given situation. Nearly every other character is adversarial,
giving Trilby plenty of opportunity to offend and delight us.

Even Trilby's sole attempt at magnanimity comes only when he feels he
has accomplished his vindictive end, and in itself turns into a
raucous, belligerent spectacle as he attempts to throw the spelling bee
and allow his tenuous junior friend to win, while the boy wants the
honor on his own well-earned merits.

Despite his crass approach to everyone and everything around him,
Bateman's Trilby is someone you can't help but like; this is certainly
in no small part due to Bateman's overall likability as a person and an
actor. You don't root for him, per se, but you certainly enjoy him. He
was perfectly cast. Past roles hinted at this side of his acting chops,
but here he takes you by complete surprise.

See this film; you'll enjoy that surprise and the ride - it is non-stop
and well worth the price of a movie ticket. Fast-paced, witty,
offensive. If you enjoyed Seth MacFarlane's Ted, you'll love Bad Words.
<|_=00=_|>
With a premise and character right in his wheelhouse, first time
director and star Jason Bateman takes a script that could've been
undermined by its clichés in the hands of a lesser talent and delivers
an almost-winner with 'Bad Words'.

On paper, Guy Trilby is one of the most unlikeable protagonists in
recent film history, but Bateman is so skillful at these kinds of
characters that you find yourself liking him despite your self.
Talented co-star Kathryn Hahn provides a nice foil, and newcomer Rohan
Chand is a dazzling breath of unpretentious fresh air as Guy's rival
and eventual protégé.

Though it never quite gels into something special, 'Bad Words' is a
solid directorial debut for Bateman, and I look forward to seeing what
he does next.
<|_=00=_|>
Other reviewers here have slated the film due to the language which I
agree was a little harsh considering the age of the actors but the film
would just not have worked without it. The characters were developed
brilliantly all the way through and production perfect. 

Saying much more would be leaning towards spoilers which are as they
suggest. I will say it is funny, heart-warming and generally enjoyable.

If I had one criticism it would only be that it was a tiny bit
predictable but by the end of the movie I just didn't care.

Would recommend this movie to all except those unduly sensitive to
language.
