
Saving Mr Banks tells the story of Walt Disney's battle to get the
rights to make Mary Poppins into a movie. I wasn't expecting to like
this but was completely blown away. 

It is beautifully put together, is hilarious in parts and very touching
and emotional at other stages, but is not overly sappy or cheesy. 

There are some outstanding performances here. Emma Thompson plays Mrs
Travers beautifully - a cantankerous and stubborn lady, yet you can't
dislike her. Tom Hanks does a good job of playing Walt Disney - a tough
role for anyone but he seems to suit it, so long as you can get past
the terrible fake southern accent which is worse than Dick Van Dyke's
attempts at an English accent in Mary Poppins. 

However the stand-out performance is, surprisingly, delivered by Colin
Farrell as Mrs Travers' father. He brings amazing range and emotion to
a character that is simultaneously a loving, sweet father and a man
caged in by life and personal demons. 

Go see it for yourself when it comes out at the end of November. I'm
looking forward to watching it again.
<|_=00=_|>
Walt Disney Pictures rarely aims for the Best Picture crown, being more
a company focused on profits and sustaining its wildly popular brand.
To make you haters hate more: they've earned $4 billion this year
already and this includes the $200 million loss of Lone Ranger). They
usually only distribute the movies that have a shot at Academy Awards
immortality, with The Help (A Dreamworks film) being the latest example
of a nominee and No Country For Old Men being their latest example of a
winner.

But with Saving Mr. Banks, Disney is going the whole nine yards. With a
stellar cast, seemingly endless budget (Giving John Lee Hancock a
much-less stressful job in directing), high production value, and heavy
dosage of drama that hides beneath the happier movie trailers, this
film stands as one of the better dramas of the year and a sure-fire
Oscar-contender. Touching upon the tissue-happy themes of forgiveness,
family, and seeking happiness in a miserable world, prepare for
waterworks throughout the two hours.

What makes this movie work more than anything else is the screenplay
that didn't start in the studios of Disney, allowing for a more
accurate portrayal of the true story behind the making of the
masterpiece Mary Poppins----even if the entire world knows that with
the backing of Disney some details will be left out. Kelly Marcel and
Sue Smith weaved out an engaging story full of crisp dialogue and
skillfully avoids becoming too overblown or too overdramatic. And
whenever the movie gets close to being all-out depressing, we get
treated to humorous moments here and there to keep the audience in
check.

In a movie about artists that are addicted to their craft, you need
actors that work with the same type of fervor. Emma Thompson despite
not getting top billing gets the most screen time, gets the toughest
job, and delivers the ultimate performance. She becomes very dislikable
and yet sympathetic at the same time, and it is impossible to see
anyone other than Thompson deliver this type of impact. Tom Hanks in an
Oscar-baiting year does a superb job portraying the icon planet Earth
knows and loves as he gives Walt Disney a humanized performance that
separates the flawed man from the myth the Disney Company has
feverishly worked to this day to protect. The rest of the cast does not
disappoint, and we even see Colin Farrell potentially impress some
Academy voters as the loving yet extremely defective father figure.

Disney's protection of its brand is the sole reason why Saving Mr.
Banks could never ever ever ever ever ever be produced or made by
anybody else. But luckily for all viewers, Disney doesn't pull back
many punches in delivering the story behind the complex and conflicted
making of Mary Poppins. It will be deep in the Golden Globes and the
Academy Awards but ultimately indeed deserves the praiseÂ—even if you
won't see all the details behind the true story on screen.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is much more than and definitely deeper than one would
suspect from the 'syrupy' trailers most people have seen. The
understory, gradually revealing the early life of P.L. Travers, the
author of Mary Poppins, and depicting how the people in her
dysfunctional family led her to write Mary Poppins, is the true core of
this movie. I will never see Mary Poppins in quite the same way. All of
the acting is superior, and the score is excellent. This is not the
shallow, childlike movie that many will expect. I would not recommend
it for children 11 and under, depending on the child. Otherwise, I
highly recommend this movie, even if you are not a big fan of the
original Mary Poppins film.
<|_=00=_|>
i attended a pre-screening of "Saving Mr. Banks" last night in Dallas.
while i had been looking forward to the film, i had my reservations.
after all, Johnny Hancock (director) was behind "The Blind Side," which
i found much too schmaltzy and watered-down for my taste. also, this
was a movie about Walt Disney being produced by his company - so how
honest would it be about the story behind the making of the masterpiece
"Mary Poppins"? would it settle for predictable mellow-drama (yes, i
meant to spell it that way) and glorify dear Uncle Walt as perfect and
demonize Mrs. Travers as a cold, soulless spoilsport? thankfully, the
answer to that is a resounding "no."

while it surely takes artistic license with history, the film as a
whole is surprisingly great. there's not a weak moment throughout, not
a second where i wasn't entertained and wanting to find out what would
come next. this film (rated PG-13) surprises with many of the thematic
issues it tackles, including alcoholism, loss - and we even get a brief
glimpse of a smoking Mr. Disney (hey, it was the 60s).

Emma Thompson has always been a strong performer though her screen time
has waned over the last decade and a half, but here she gives a
performance that is worthy of awards attention. As Mrs. P.L. Travers,
she is an author as protective as her life's work as a mother is for a
child and is dealing with demons nearly forgotten. Mr. Hanks too
carries his own playing the iconic and visionary Disney at the top of
his game, trying to honor a promise to his daughters while also add to
his impressive repertoire of cinematic achievements.

this is not really a film to take your Poppins-loving tykes to. this is
the Disney film for mom and dad to enjoy. "Saving Mr. Banks" will
probably be remembered as one of the best films of 2013, and for good
reason.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite watching the trailer and knowing the broad story, Saving Mr. 
Banks still managed to surprise me. It's a beautiful, tender film that 
manages to be sad without being mawkish, funny without detracting from 
the emotion and with far greater depth than expected.

Unfolding the story of Walt Disney's attempt to persuade P.L. Travers 
to sell him the rights to her beloved Mary Poppins, Saving Mr. Banks is 
a delightful film that is deceptively emotional and flows smoothly 
enough to be entirely engaging.

Travers (Emma Thompson) thwarts Disney's (Tom Hanks) attempts to secure 
the rights for twenty years until a flatlining bank balance and a 
mildly panicking agent persuade her to at least consider Disney's 
proposition or lose her home with certainty. Whisking her to Hollywood 
and bombarding her with all things Disney, the master of the House of 
Mouse spares no expense or effort to woo Mrs Travers and persuade her 
to allow him to keep his promise to his daughters to film the books 
they loved so much. But nothing prepares him for the stubborn, exacting 
curmudgeon who challenges him at every twist and turn and demands and 
demeans in equal measures.

After the recent Captain Phillips, in which Hanks was astounding, there 
is a very good chance that he may join an exclusive group (of twelve so 
far, including co-star Emma Thompson) of actors to be nominated for two 
Oscars in the same year. Even more rarely, he'll deserve both 
nominations! Quite simply, it is impossible to imagine another actor in 
the role of Uncle Walt. He oozes charisma and his smile is used for so 
much more than merely expressing happiness. There is a genuine warmth 
to Hanks' performance and this is one of those rare occasions where I 
temporarily forgot I was watching him. He's been a very good actor for 
many, many years, but this year I've had to reassess my opinion of him 
and state that he has transcended his deserved 'movie stardom' to 
become a very fine actor indeed.

Unsurprisingly (and most welcome), Hanks is matched every single step 
of the way by Thompson. There is a magical thawing in her Travers in 
the course of Saving Mr. Banks where she pokes her head out of her 
hard, crispy chrysalis and threatens to become a warm(ish), witty 
woman. Early on in the film, it is difficult to like Travers as her 
demands become more extreme, her retorts more cutting and her demeanour 
downright unpleasant, but Kelly Marcel and Sue Smith's screenplay 
weaves the story of the film rights with the tale of Travers' troubled 
childhood to give reason for her crustiness and context to her literary 
creation. It is this aspect of Saving Mr. Banks that surprises most and 
completes the film.

Director John Lee Hancock (The Blind Side) approaches each side of his 
female protagonist's life very differently and her buried history is 
shot in muted, dusty colours with a jagged Western romanticism that 
tempers the bleak happenings that shaped the girl into the woman. Colin 
Farrell is on his best form for years as Travers Goff, the drunk father 
who lives in his own fantastic world of imagination and adventure to 
escape the harsh reality of the real world. He is a man who fails 
consistently and knows it, but loves his daughter unequivocally. As 
with Hanks and Thompson, the chemistry between Farrell and Annie Rose 
Buckley (playing Ginty, the young Travers) is effortlessly beautiful.

The casting is just one of the joys of Saving Mr. Banks, with Paul 
Giamatti chief amongst the supporting actors as Travers' driver, Ralph, 
a doleful puppy in human form that responds to every brush-off and 
verbal slap with another smile and encouraging word. In the studio 
Bradley Whitford as screenwriter Don DaGradi and B.J. Novak and Jason 
Schwartzman as the Sherman brothers bring more gentle humour as 
Travers' desperate, unwilling adversaries. There's no lazy leaning 
towards slapstick or cheap shots, rather Hancock steers their scenes 
gently allowing both the frostiness and the occasional sprinkles of 
sunlight to sparkle with sincerity.

There are hints of Travers' adult life beyond her books but, though 
comments remain, it feels as though the backstory was excised for the 
final cut and so I came away from the film feeling that something was 
missing. The final act is perhaps a little too tidy; it glides towards 
a resolution too smoothly and nothing is made of the rumoured aftermath 
of the deal, but these are minor niggles in a beautiful film that 
carries one along and moistens the eyes occasionally.

Saving Mr. Banks is an unqualified success. It is a joy to watch and 
leaves one hoping that Mary Poppins earns yet another screening in this 
year's Christmas TV schedule.

<|_=00=_|>
I think the wrong way to view the new film, Saving Mr. Banks, is as the
making of Disney's classic, Mary Poppins. Saving Mr. Banks is really
about storytelling as both truth and escape, as well as a film about
fathers. 

The film tells the true story of how Mary Poppins author, P.L. Travers,
came to Disney Studios for two weeks in 1961, as Walt Disney and his
ace crew of creatives tried to convince the ill- tempered Travers to
allow them the rights to make Mary Poppins. 

I think it's safe to say that we all know how the film ultimately ends,
but how we get there is such an emotional journey that it is worth
embarking upon. Emma Thompson portrays P.L. Travers with enough emotion
buried within the subtext of her words that we care about this woman
who is not all that immediately likable on the page, and in lesser
hands the role would have been just that. Meanwhile, Tom Hanks plays
the part of Walt Disney himself, with a twinkle in his eye, and yet he
also manages to bring his trademark everyman quality to old Walt
himself and make Walt not seem as if he's some myth, but rather a real
man. However, the big mistake that many seem to be making with this
film is that it's a movie about Walt Disney, and while Disney is a very
important character in the film, this is P.L. Travers' story.

Through flashbacks we witness Travers' childhood in Australia and her
relationship with her alcoholic banker father, Travers Goff, who was
the inspiration for Mr. Banks in Mary Poppins, and is portrayed in this
film by Colin Farrell with a charming, yet tragic likability. We
witness how much of Travers' childhood went on to inspire Mary Poppins,
and it's through these flashbacks that Saving Mr. Banks finds its
heart. Without us seeing what P.L. Travers went through, it's hard for
us to understand why she is so against Disney transforming, what is
essentially, her own past into a film. This allows us to relate to this
hard to relate to woman, which is the brilliant stroke of director John
Lee Hancock and screenwriters Kelly Marcel and Sue Smith. As a matter
of fact, if there is one word to describe Saving Mr. Banks for me, it
is brilliant.

It is rare to see a film made by a major studio with this kind of
thematic density, and that is why this is such a brilliant motion
picture. There is an honesty to the way the film deals with the idea of
fathers and that while they may not be infallible, they can still be
saved. Then there are the thematic ideas of storytelling that ring so
true to me as a storyteller myself. Whether we realize it or not, the
stories we tell are reflections of ourselves and our own lives. Walt
says it best late in the film when he points out that the true power of
imagination and story is to lend hope, and I think that is why anyone
deep down tells a story, and I think that idea sums up Disney's entire
career.

There just aren't that many kind of films like Saving Mr. Banks in
these cynical days, but if you allow yourself to feel, you will be
swept away. This is a Disney movie, through and through. There are
laughs and moments of soaring emotion throughout, and I wouldn't want
anything different from a film made by Disney. Every time you hear,
"Let's Go Fly a Kite," your spirit soars and as you watch the film, the
song begins to take on a whole new meaning that makes it an even more
life affirming song than you perhaps ever thought of it as before. It's
not merely a great toe-tapper that closes a film, it's a song of hope.

I just can't say enough about Saving Mr. Banks, I loved it and I think
everyone should see this film. The funny thing about all this is, is
that without the film Mary Poppins, Saving Mr. Banks would not exist,
and yet Saving Mr. Banks is a film that manages to improve upon what is
already a near perfect classic and perhaps even best it. From now on,
every single time you watch Mary Poppins, the many events and ideas of
that film will take on a whole new meaning. In fact, I can't wait till
the next time I see Mary Poppins again to see how it may affect me more
strongly on an emotional level now knowing more of the story. Saving
Mr. Banks is just a miraculous kind of movie that we need more of. It's
classic Hollywood drama, so if you want my advice, bring a hankie and
just enjoy yourself.

I give Saving Mr. Banks a 10 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
From the studio that brought you Mary Poppins, Disney has released a
biopic about the author of the original novels, P.L Travers. Saving Mr.
Banks is the story of her battles with Walt Disney, who wants the
rights to the film adaptation, in a dramatic comedy that is both witty
and sentimental.

Mrs. Pamela P.L. Travers (Emma Thompson) has been hounded by Walt
Disney (Tom Hanks) and the Disney Corporation for 20 years for the film
rights to her book and she has refused constantly. But by 1961, she has
run out of money and agrees to go to Los Angeles for two weeks to work
with the writing team to see if a deal can be struck. Her conditions
are that the film cannot be animated, there are no songs and she has
final script approval. Travers quickly clashes with creative team and
Walt himself, a man who promised his daughters he would adapt the book.

As this is going on Travers reflects on her childhood in rural
Australia, with her father (Colin Farrell), a loving man who feeds his
daughter's imagination, but an alcoholic with probable depression and
how these events influenced her writing.

Saving Mr. Banks is a film armed with excellent screenplay and a top
notch cast. As well as the likes of Thompson, Hanks and Farrell, Saving
Mr. Banks also features Bradley Whittaker, Jason Schwartzman, Paul
Giamatti, B.J. Novak and Ruth Wilson. They all offer strong
performances and have given us very well defined characters. Thompson
dominates as Travers, a no nonsense woman with poor social skills and a
British Bulldog stubbornness/determination and injects a deadpan humour
with the witty lines she was given. Thompson also brings out the
emotion, the serious aspects of the character, as the shadows of her
past still linger over her.

One of the big themes of the film is the writing process, both the
individual, personal aspect and the collaborative effect of a film
adaptation. Saving Mr. Banks shows that many writers use they personal
experience and life and become a part of the author. It is hard for
writers to let go and particularly for Travers, as she has so much
invested in Mary Poppins, so much of herself in it. Her books allowed
her to have some wish fulfilment.

The screenwriters Kelly Marcel and Sue Smith, director John Lee Hancock
and editor Mark Livoisi worked brilliant to blending the story of
Travers butting heads with Disney's creative team and her backstory
about her childhood influencing her writing. There are plenty of
transitions, allowing Hancock to have some fancy pans. One particular
noticeable sequence is when the creative team performs one of the songs
and Travers has a flashback. The film slowly reveals how Travers
childhood and her father became a part of her writing, used in the
books and become a part of the themes of her books and philosophies.
This is particularly the case with her parents and their inabilities to
cope, both Travers' father's alcoholism and mother's inability to cope
with the stress, leading to her theme of responsibility. For a film
that is about the writing process, Saving Mr. Banks never really shows
about the writing process that Travers goes through, but explores the
writing process of adapting a work, from one medium to another.

The final theme and a big part of the comedy comes from the clashes of
cultures and personalities. Travers is a brash personality with formal,
conservative approach and lives a modest lifestyle in London and a
rustic life in Australia. This in comparison to the overtly friendly
American and their glamour and excess, from the fashion to the food,
particularly sweet treats and the hard sell from Disney in Travers'
hotel room.

Saving Mr. Banks has a excellent screenplay, solid direction and
balances the comedy dramatic portions extremely well. The film makes
sure there is plenty of sentiment, particularly with the score by
Thomas Newman. It is a safe film, but still a pleasing experience. It
is perfect if you are a fan of Mary Poppins and you will have the songs
stuck in your head.

Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
<|_=00=_|>
"Saving Mr. Banks" is easily one of the best movies to come out this
year. It tells the tale behind the making of Disney's beloved classic
"Mary Poppins," but it is so much more than just a typical 'making of a
movie' movie. While many of these types of films aren't as good as the
movie they are about, this one is different. It feels like a companion
piece to the beloved classic. It allows us to appreciate the trials and
tribulations Disney had to go through to make his magnum opus. However,
it is also more about P.L. Traverse and why she loves her character so
much and why Mary Poppins holds such a special place in her heart.

Director John Lee Hancock does a great job of making this film
something truly special. He balances witty humor with emotional depth,
but does so without being too sappy or melodramatic. The film is also
well written by being more personal than just being a movie about
making a movie. The themes of letting and moving on are handled well
and really becomes relatable to anyone watching.

The performances are top-notch. Tom Hanks makes a pretty good Disney
and he isn't sugar coated either. The real standouts are Emma Thompson
and Colin Farrell. They give strong dimensional performances that makes
us truly care and sympathies with the characters.

Overall "Saving Mr. Banks" is a truly great and beautifully told film.
Its individual parts may not be the years best, but as a complete film
it is the whole package. It's a movie that exemplifies why we go to the
movies and what Disney stands for as an entertainment corporation. It
is a movie that is equal parts heartfelt, witty, charming,
entertaining, and emotionally satisfying. I give it 5/5
<|_=00=_|>
"Saving Mr. Banks" is an exquisite film. It draws you in with the
delightful reality of Disney as well as the triumphantly stark reality
(inasmuch as it is reality; I do lack her background) of Mrs. Travers.
I purposely leave out parts of the film for the sake of the movie-goer,
but let me say how delightful the songs are, the people are, the
displays of emotion-- my part as well, as I nearly cried and fully
laughed at certain points throughout. The film speaks to me and it
feels complete in its currency-- tuppence, if you will-- in taking Mrs.
Travers' story and embellishing it with the truth of the creators'
(both Travers and Disney, for the part he has in the creation of the
film) lives. The lives of the characters-- and I do mean most people
seen on screen, in particular the driver and Mrs. Travers' mother-- are
well-told and well-lived, and spark a certain comfort and warmth, even
in the cold of their realities and harsher backstories. I believe the
film has done its job beautifully, and I wouldn't change it for the
world. Even the animated penguins, although for me there is still my
deep and abiding love for their real counterparts.
