
It's always a crap shoot whenever a Hollywood film tries to bring
martial arts into mainstream North America. Jackie Chan has for the
most part bridged that gap successfully while integrating comedy.
Unlike with his past comedic partners in crime from Owen Wilson and
Chris Tucker. Johnny Knoxville fails miserably. It's not entirely his
fault. It's the film itself. It seems to me Renny Harlin is trying to
mash bits of Shanghai Noon with Rush Hour with a dab of Supercop. The
film doesn't gel at all. The flow is all over the place and scenes are
too implausible. Each scene, seems to be a gag. There's
conversation/joke/story line implied then at the end of the scene, the
punchline. Then it moves on. Action scenes are obvious Chan-born, which
sometimes do not feel unique unlike his past Hollywood films. Feels too
contrived, not original enough. I am a big fan of Jackie Chan - Johnny
Knoxville is coming along trying to be taken seriously, but Renny can't
seems to improve either actors and that shows in this outing. His last
decent film, Long Kiss Goodnight should be used as reference to make
better action movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoy this movie but only because I've been a Jackie Chan fan.

The movie features his trademark comedy moves and gags, but as an
action martial arts flick his moves against goons are now much slower
than his past movies due to his age (respectfully so). The man is still
doing his own stunts and the end credit routine showing the bloopers is
always a treat for me.

Knoxville portrays a crook very believably well and the pair of
opposite do attract and contrast sometimes to keep the story flowing.

Jackie Chan should join forces with all the other old stars such as
Yuen Biao, Sammo Hung and make united flick franchises like R.E.D., The
Expendables...

In conclusion, Skiptrace is a bit like From Russia to Hongkong in 80
days, with some bits of China tourism ads/commercials thrown in, plus
regular Jackie Chan favourite flavours. If you enjoy Jackie Chan, watch
it to support him.
<|_=00=_|>
Look, I am a huge Jackie Chan fan and I have seen quite a few of his
films that were accessible to American audiences. He has done some
remarkable movies in his day. Anyone the hasn't seen Police Story 1 or
2 is missing some of the most hardcore action ever put to film. Legend
of the Drunken Master is a classic film. Project A, Armour of the Gods,
Rumble in the Bronx, Rush Hour, and on and on and on. I love Jackie
Chan.

This film however is bad. I mean capital B A D. The action sequences
are poorly filmed. The dialogue is terrible. The story progression is
horrendous. The acting is atrocious. I wanted to like this movie...I
really did. Jackie Chan has broken down so many barriers. His comedic
style is something that has given me laughs upon laughs for years. But
it just doesn't work this time.

I chalk it up to a poor script, the fact that he is probably slowing
down some in his older age, and just bad direction, bad writing, and
horrible editing.

Watch at your own risk.
<|_=00=_|>
Hong Kong police detective Bennie Chan (Jackie Chan) loses his partner
Yung in a deadly bombing. He suspects that businessman Victor Wong is
criminal Matador responsible for the death. He's been investigating for
9 years to no avail. World-traveling thief Connor Watts (Johnny
Knoxville) is on the run from the Russian mob after sleeping with the
daughter of the boss. In Macau, he gets involved with Yung's daughter
Samantha who is infiltrating a casino connected to Victor Wong. He
steals her card to access a private floor where he witnesses Esther
Yee's murder. He escapes by getting taken by the Russians. The casino
accuses him of stealing money and Samantha asks Bennie to track him
down.

This is classic Jackie Chan. The action is still there and so is his
sense of humor. His fights still have that pep and his fights with Eve
Torres are actually funny. It's nothing new except this time's guilo is
Knoxville. I expected better chemistry but the two deliver enough
comedy. The story doesn't really work and the movie tries very hard to
make it into a muddle. The guys end up in the Mongolian desert for no
particularly good reason other than it's exotic cool. It's great to see
Jackie staying in fighting shape but it's not much better than that.
<|_=00=_|>
'SKIPTRACE': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

The new Chinese-American action-comedy buddy film, starring Jackie Chan
and Johnny Knoxville. It was directed by Renny Harlin, and written by
Jay Longino, BenDavid Grabinski and Wen-Chia Chang. The film tells the
story of a Hong Kong detective, that's forced to team up with an
American gambler; in order to stop a Chinese crime boss. The movie also
costars Bingbing Fan (a popular Chinese actress and pop singer), Eve
Torres (a popular WWE wrestler, model and a Brazilian jiu-jitsu
fighter) and Eric Tsang. The movie received mostly poor reviews from
critics, but it was a blockbuster at the Chinese Box Office. I enjoyed
it.

Bennie Chan (Chan) is a Hong Kong detective, that's been pursuing a
Chinese crime boss, known as 'Matador', for many years. He became
obsessive about the case, when the notorious criminal killed his
partner, Yung (Tsang). Bennie believes that a businessman, named Victor
Wong (Winston Chao), is the 'Matador', but he doesn't have the evidence
he needs to prove it. When Yung's daughter (Fan) gets in trouble with
the crime boss, for letting an American gambler, named Connor Watts
(Knoxville), steal from her, Bennie must track the gambler down in
order to help her. Bennie and Connor then reluctantly team up, and of
course bond on their new adventure.

The movie is everything you'd expect from a Jackie Chan buddy movie;
it's reminiscent of 'RUSH HOUR' and 'SHANGHAI NOON', but not quite as
good. Knoxville is great playing the comic relief, in action buddy
flicks like this (he also did it in 2004's 'WALKING TALL', and 2013's
'THE LAST STAND'), and he and Chan have great chemistry together; it
would have been interesting to see Sean William Scott in the role too
though (who Knoxville replaced). Renny Harlin is of course very
qualified to direct this type of movie as well, and he does a good job.
It's a fun movie; not great, but fun.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2GhHTPB4y30
<|_=00=_|>
Skiptrace finds Jackie Chan trying that odd Chinese-American
combination yet again, but unfortunately he fails miserably this time.
Johnny Knoxville fails to fire up that natural flair of comedy that
Owen Wilson had so effortlessly aced in the Shanghai franchise.
Unfortunately the movie falls like dominoes owing to a bland plot and
an unvarying disconnect that rips apart whatever Skiptrace was trying
to walk upon.

DIRECTION OF SKIPTRACE 

The direction of Skiptrace is absolutely pathetic. Renny Harlin isn't
really sure what he wishes to show. You can see that confusion in his
frames. Or maybe that element of clarity is missing from his head that
clouds his judgment. Editing will compel you to shake your head. It is
that bad.

Humour is quite confined, always acting contrary to our expectations.
With Johnny Knoxville in the vanguard to stay as the primary
entertainer of Skiptrace, expectations naturally shot up high. But
Johnny made it all mediocre. You keep waiting for something funny, but
then the wait becomes punishing.

The plot is forced upon to entertain a deliberate road trip. You feel
the emptiness of it all when you see nothing substantial emanate from
any corner. We are always heading towards something, so that's kind of
good.

Chan and Knoxville create an okay chemistry though it is hard to
compare their pairing up with the likes of what you have seen over the
years.

NOSTALGIC OLD TIMES 

Gone are those days when Jackie used to be young, and his fight scenes
used to be the ogling kind. It always sends me back in time, when I try
to remember all of his arresting fight sequences from the likes of
Project A series, Who Am I, City Hunter, Armour of God and Police Story
franchise. He still manages to entertain us nevertheless, but the
quantum of combat bits in his movies has seen a gradual decline over
the years. Maybe old age is doing that to him. It is in a way sad,
because even when his movies didn't bank on a good storyline, he used
to still uplift them with his jaw-dropping brawls. We miss that
profusely.

Now that I think of it every Jackie Chan movie is ending up like that.
Maybe for a change he should use a stunt double so that he doesn't hurt
himself delivering those parkour like stunts, as is quite evident from
his end credit scenes.

THE FINAL VERDICT 

Skiptrace makes for a passable watch, preferable when you are fine with
your brain taking a holiday for a change. You cannot help but think, it
is time Jackie Chan amp up his entertaining quotient, by partnering up
with either Owen Wilson or Tucker again. At least that magic was
working for him.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, the plot is a little bit all over the place at times but it still
had some pretty neat fights (Jackie Chan always delivers some good
stunts for his films) and some fun humor (often within said fight
scenes). 

There was some dubbed scenes in the first 20 minutes where they clearly
weren't speaking English as they would have had no reason to being just
Chinese present but luckily that didn't last too long.

I'm guessing the studio thought that Johnny Knoxville fans couldn't
handle reading too many subtitles so they dubbed every other scene that
was Mandarin sometimes more obvious than others (in the first dubbed
scene they avoid the obviousness by simply picking shots that avoid the
lips of the cast when they speak).

But I guess that makes it feel a bit like the classic early 90's Jackie
Chan movies where they did similar things for the international
versions.

Anyway all in all I was mostly entertained and that's why we watch
these kind of movies after all and it's worth watching it to see Jackie
Chan sing Adel√© alone.

6.5/10 for me.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a Hong Kong policeman who has to catch an
American con man, chasing him from Macau to Russia. Along the way, they
encounter trouble with Russian gangs and Mongolian tribes. They have to
do everything to survive.

"Skiptrace" is in English but it is clear that it is aimed at the
Chinese market. The film itself is adequately entertaining, with a lot
of action scenes done in a funny way that makes you chuckle. However,
it just looks like every other recent Jackie Chan film, even the action
sequences are beginning to feel strangely familiar. It is an adequate
choice to kill an evening, but don't expect too much because Hollywood
action films have moved on but this hasn't.
<|_=00=_|>
A detective from Hong Kong teams up with an American gambler to battle
against a notorious Chinese criminal. I was never a huge fan of Jackie
Chan but i did always find him a good actor and the fact that he is
doing his own stunts was always impressive but lately his movies
haven't achieved the impact that they once had and i get it times have
changed and he is getting older for sure but honestly i just finished
watching Skiptrace and i don't get the hate it received sure it's not a
perfect film i mean the story and the comedy at times could have been a
lot better but that doesn't mean that it was a complete disaster i
honestly think that Jackie Chan's American Movies are way better than
the ones he is doing in China and i'm just being honest. Skiptrace had
a lot of great action scenes and there was a lot of fight scenes in
like every 5 to 20 minutes and that is what i like about films like
this , the stunt work was terrific and basically it's a Jackie Chan
movie so what did you expect? His chemistry with Johnny Knoxville was
amazing and although i think that Knoxville is not that great of an
actor he works pretty well done for films of this level and he did a
great job in The Last Stand a few years back where he starred alongside
Arnold Schwarzenegger. Also Eve Torres as a Russian chick named Dasha?
Was pretty cool too so overall i found Skiptrace a very enjoyable film
it had great action, great stunts and the humor for the most part
worked plus the twist in the ending added a bit drama to it as well
which i liked. (9/10)
<|_=00=_|>
I actually saw the first half in Chinese and the other half in English.
Dare I say, dialogues in Chinese dubbed conveyed more sincerity. 

What I don't understand is the philosophy behind the villain like why
he faked his own death in the first place and why did he kill himself
again, why didn't he take care of his own daughter and left her to his
so-called "friend" and why aren't the Hong Kong police talking in
Cantonese, why can't that be subtitled as well. 

Yes, the film seemed like a "Rush Hour" layout with more rural
beautiful scenery of China. The actions and fight scenes were great,
don't get me wrong but it's really hard to make a good Asian-American
film. Not enough scripts going around, I guess?
