
Greetings again from the darkness. Sometimes we just can't "get over
it". Three years after a war photographer dies in a suspicious car
accident, her husband and two sons find themselves in various states of
emotional distress. Everyone deals with guilt in their own way, but
these three seem to be doing anything and everything to avoid actually
dealing with the emotional fallout.

Writer/director Joachim Trier (Oslo, August 31) delivers his first
English-speaking film with an assist from co-writer Eskil Vogt and a
terrific cast. As we would expect from Mr. Trier, it's a visually
stylish film with some stunning images  and the timeline is anything
but simple as we bounce from past to present, and from the perspective
of different characters (sometimes with the same scene).

The creativity involved with the story telling and technical aspects
have no impact whatsoever on the pacing. To say that the film is
meticulously paced would be a kind way of saying many viewers may
actually get restless/bored with how slowly things move at times. Trier
uses this pacing to help us experience some of the frustration and
discomfort that each of the characters feel.

Isabelle Huppert plays the mother/wife in some wonderful flashback and
dream-like sequences, while Gabriel Byrne plays her surviving husband.
Jesse Eisenberg as Jonah, and Devin Druid as Conrad are the sons, and
as brothers they struggle to connect with each other  just as the
father struggles to connect with each of them. In fact, it's a film
filled with characters who lie to each other, lie to themselves, and
lie to others. It's no mystery why they are each miserable in their own
way. The suppressed emotions are at times overwhelming, and it's
especially difficult to see the youngest son struggle with social
aspects of high school  it's a spellbinding performance from Devin
Druid ("Olive Kitteridge").

Jesse Eisenberg manages to tone down his usual hyper-obnoxious
mannerisms, yet still create the most unlikable character in the film 
and that's saying a lot. Mr. Byrne delivers a solid performance as the
Dad who is quite flawed, and other supporting work is provided by David
Strathairn and Amy Ryan. The shadow cast by this woman is enormous and
deep  and for nearly two hours we watch the family she left behind
come to grips with her death and each other. It's a film done well, but
only you can decide if it sounds like a good way to spend two hours.
<|_=00=_|>
'LOUDER THAN BOMBS': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

Insightful drama flick, from Norwegian filmmaker Joachim Trier (in his
English-language film debut). The movie tells the story of a husband,
and his two sons, that are trying to cope with the death of the boys'
mother. It was directed and co-written by Trier, with Eskil Vogt
(Trier's usual writing partner). The film stars Gabriel Byrne, Jesse
Eisenberg, Devin Druid, Isabelle Huppert, David Strathairn and Amy
Ryan. It's a really well made movie, and it's also intensely involving. 

Isabelle Reed (Huppert) was a very famous, and successful, war
photographer; until her death, in a horrible car accident. Gene Reed
(Byrne), and his sons, Jonah (Eisenberg) and Conrad (Druid), are still
trying to get over her death. It appears as though Isabelle's death was
a suicide, and her former coworker, Richard (Strathairn), is about to
publish a newspaper article saying so. Gene wants to tell Conrad, who
doesn't know this about his mother's passing, before the article is
released; but Conrad is becoming increasingly hard for his father to
talk to. Jonah recently had a child of his own, and he's just returned
home, for the first time in a long while, to spend time with Gene and
his depressed brother.

The movie is really well directed, and written, and the performances
are all decent as well. It's a really sad story, with very well thought
out and realistic characters. What's most impressive about the movie,
is how inspiring it is (despite all this). Finding light in seemingly
overpowering darkness, is a really hard thing to do; but Trier
impressively pulls it off. He also tells the story in a pretty fresh,
and unique way too. I really like this film.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/8E1WKbyL3YM
<|_=00=_|>
"Louder Than Bombs" (2015 release from Norway/France; 109 min.) brings
the story of the Reed family. As the movie opens, we see Jonah Red
(played by Jesse Eisenberg) in the hospital with his wife and their
newborn baby. After the movie's opening credits, we then shift to
Isabelle Reed (played by Isabelle Huppert), a NYT was photographer who
perished a few years ago and is now the subject of a retrospective. The
NYT reporter who worked with her is going to write a long piece on it,
and gives a heads up to widower Gene Reed (played by Gabriel Byrne).
Finally, we also get to know Conrad Reed, the younger brother of Jonah.
Conrad is struggling in high school, and also at home. At this point
we're about 15 minutes into the movie but to tell you more of the plot
would spoil your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for
yourself how it all plays out.

Couple of comments: this is the latest movie from Norwegian
writer-director Joachim Trier, whose previous movie, 2011's "Oslo,
August 31st" was outstanding. This is his first English language movie,
and here Trier dives into a complex family drama. It took me a while to
figure out who was who, and what exactly is going on. Perhaps the
emotional linchpin of the movie is young Conrad (played by
newcomer--for me anyway Devin Druid), who's sulking character at first
is not very likable, but as more and more peels of the onion are
removed, the Conrad character is developed deeper and fuller. When
older brother Jonah urges Conrad to "sit out" the high school years,
Conrad nods but of course does the exact opposite... The movie
structure for "Louder Than Bombs" is further complicated because of the
multiple flashbacks involving Isabelle. And how exactly did she die
anyway? This movie reminded me at times of the Robert Redford-directed
family drama "Ordinary People" from 1980. In other words: heavy duty
stuff. I don't know whether Eisenberg has played a better role in his
still relatively young career. He is vulnerable as the older brother
and the husband, trying to deal with a lot of things coming at him in
life. Also keep your eyes out for a fairly small role from
up-and-coming Rachel Brosnahan as Jonah's ex-girlfriend Erin. People
sometimes make good choices, sometimes bad choices, "but you can't plan
for what happens after you've made a choice", cautions the NYT
journalist at one point. There is a lot of good music in the film, both
as to the original score composed by Ola Fløttum (unknown to me), and
as to other incidental music (including Tangerine Dream's "Love On a
Real Train" in a newly re-recorded and extended version).

The theater's Sunday matinée screening where I saw this at this past
weekend turned out to be a private screening, as in: I literally was
the only person in the theater. That is a darn shame. I recognize that
this type of film isn't going to attract big crowds, but not even a
small crowd? Jeez... Maybe this movie will find a larger audience on
VOD or when it is eventually released on DVD/Blu-ray. Regardless, if
you are in the movie for a heavy duty family drama that features some
great performances, you cannot go wrong with this. "Louder Than Bombs"
is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
<|_=00=_|>
Acclaimed Norwegian filmmakers Joachim Trier and Eskil Vogt has done
another profound film which will be talked about in years to come. This
film was chosen for the main program at this years Cannes festival,
after Trier's last movie was shown in the festivals' "Un certain
regard"- program. Joachim Triers granddad, Erik Løchen, participated in
the main program with his acclaimed "Jakten"/"The hunt" in 1960, and
Lars von Trier is also said to be a distant relative, though I haven't
found the proof of that.

In this drama we meet the men, and the woman (Isabelle Huppert) of
which their life has circled around. The mother died a couple of years
ago in a car accident after colliding with a meeting trailer. The
husband (Gabriel Byrne), which is a teacher, and the two sons has moved
on, and we come into their lives when there is to be a memorial
exhibition for her, when the oldest son (Jesse Eisenberg) just see his
first kid being born at the hospital, and the youngest (Devin Druid) is
seemingly living in his own world and in the video games he plays. 

The film must be interpreted by each viewer, and will mean different
thing to each one giving time to this film, but I would say the film is
about awareness in your own life, as well as the difficulty in living
together with other persons, especially if you don't have the
communication needed.

The film is also from time to time bringing you into the thought of all
the main persons, and especially into the youngest son's stream of
consciousness of weird thoughts. The three men communicate, but are all
keeping secrets from each other. These secrets seem more or less
profound for each of them, and are all stories which should be told.
How this all unravels is the excitement and tension of the film. 

Well, go watch it! The film has capability to both be life changing and
food for thought, and I liked it on that basis. I was expecting the
film to have a stronger emotional impact on me, which disappointed me a
little, but it sure will do that to others, depending on life
experiences.

The style has obviously been very influenced by several great film
makers, amongst them, some of the French masters. An obvious reference
to me was Louis Malle's masterpiece "Le feu follet", and Luis Bunuel's
"The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie", but there's many more.

We've just seen the start of the magic to come out of the friendship
between Joachim Trier and fellow script writer and filmmaker Eskil
Vogt. I sense there are great films to come out of this cooperation. 

Well worth a watch, but don't expect an action movie. Be ready to use
your brain.
<|_=00=_|>
"Words! Words! Words! We didn't need words then. We had FACES,"
Forgotten Silent Screen Star Norma Desmond rages on in "Sunset Blvd."
Norma knew! 

Louder Than Bombs is about a family wanting to be together and wanting
to be left alone. Norma would be pleased. It has FACES! Gabriel's,
Isabelle's, Jesse's, Devin's, David's, Amy's and Megan's. An acting
ensemble as good as David O. Russell's without the Botox of Big Fame.
Director Joachim Trier likes FACES and understands and loves
complicated families. Mr. Trier lets us be a part of this one.

Isabelle Huppert is their beautiful flawed dead Mom. I was worried I
wouldn't see enough of her great real face, but she was the family
nucleus, loved, missed, needed, and in the way. Gabriel Byrne is the
loving, screwing-up Dad, a not-too-bright ex-actor with bad instincts
toward his career and his wife and sons. Jesse Eisenberg (who gets
quieter and deeper in each part and says "interesting" better than
anybody)and Devin Druid (oh boy, watch out!) both damaged by Mom and
Dad's fear and selfishness, are older and younger brothers. You must
see these fine young actors before they disappear into Hero Wear and
computer graphics.

Louder Than Bombs is brilliant hard work. The viewer is allowed to feel
fear, resentment, rage, selfishness, heartache and love. And laugh.
Remember those? See it.
<|_=00=_|>
Most coming-of-age films lean on the romantic comedy or melodrama for
shape and structure, usually with a linear storyline that leads to a
metaphorical awakening or some other resolution. As you might expect
from a Norwegian director, Louder than Bombs (2015) avoids this
well-trodden approach by telling a multi-layered fractured tale that
looks more like a thriller than a teen-drama. Adolescents who clam-up
tightly to exclude the world while they catch up with its emotional
challenges are common stories. The one in this film is like a bomb
about to explode and his story forms the narrative spine along which
several sub-plots radiate in all directions.

Conrad is an introspective young war-gamer who has closed off to the
world since his famous war photographer mother Isabelle was killed
three years ago. He keeps to himself at school and defiantly ignores
his well-meaning ex-TV star father. A photo exhibition is planned to
commemorate Isabelle's work and a former colleague plans an article
that will reveal the secret truth of Isabelle's suicide. Conrad has
been shielded from this truth, as well as from the affairs of his
father and brother. Over-protection has increasingly isolated him until
he tries to connect with a girl in class. It's a complex non-liner plot
line with several flashbacks that shift across narrative lines to
create the visual effect of a perfect storm of fractured people.
Isabelle's war images and her memory keep appearing but the battle we
are seeing is raging in the minds of those she left behind who struggle
to move on with their lives.

The film has an unsettling asymmetrical style about it. You find it in
the withholding of truths, in the gender inversion of a war zone mother
and a TV soapies father, and in hair-trigger Conrad lashing out in all
directions. While the acting is often melodramatic, the filming is edgy
with sharp editing cuts and sudden discordant images that feel out of
context (like tumbling aerial schoolgirls). It has an uneven but
reflective pace that disorients the viewer and leaves them uncertain
how the story can hold together. But through the foggy mess of their
lives appears hope for better times. More art-house than spoon-fed, the
film feels refreshingly free of clichés and leaves you thinking about
the impact of distant memories on daily lives.
<|_=00=_|>
Saturday night and only 12 people in the theatre to see this movie.
Half way through 5 had walked out. Personally I thought it was a good
watch, but it won't be to everybody's liking.

A thought provoking, moving story about the effects on a husband and
two sons after their wife/mother is killed in a car crash. Good
performances by Gabriel Byrne and Jesse Eisenberg as the husband and
older son, but it's Devin Druid that steals the show as Conrad, the
younger son, who gives an outstanding performance as a young man filled
with grief. Conrad finds it difficult to communicate with his father
Gene, but finds some comfort in his writings, while his older brother
Jonah is not as nice as he first appears.

Isabelle Huppert plays the mother, who does not feature in the movie
very much, but plays a vital part nonetheless.

It's a movie you need to watch and concentrate on, but it's worth the
effort.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Joachim Trier makes his English-language debut with the drama
Louder Than Bombs, an intimate portrayal of one family's relationship
and the struggles they must overcome in the face of death. The film
made its debut at the 2015 Cannes Film Festival and, coupled with
Trier's reputation as an acclaimed filmmaker and visionary, is sure to
make waves in the indie/art house film scene.

Isabelle Reed (Isabelle Huppert) a famed photographer who felt most
comfortable in war and conflict-ridden areas, was the center of her
husband Gene (Gabriel Byrne) and two sons', Jonah (Jesse Eisenberg) and
teenager Conrad (Devin Druid), world. No one could have predicted that
she would leave behind a familial conflict of her own doing after her
untimely and suspicious death. Three years after the accident,
Isabelle's works are being thrust into the spotlight when a museum in
New York City asks to use her photographs for a retrospective gallery
installation. Her husband accepts, as he is slowly moving on with his
life and sees this as a great opportunity to honor her. However, he
discovers that an accompanying New York Times article speculating
Isabelle's actual cause of death is set to run simultaneously with the
gallery opening, and threatens to expose the devastating truth that
Gene was intent on hiding from his youngest son in order to protect
him. He has no choice but to enlist his oldest son Jonah to help him
get through another painful confrontation.

Louder Than Bombs is an unwavering, head-on look at the human desire
for connection and the need to be understood. It's obvious in Conrad's
behavior by acting out and alienating himself from his father's attempt
to reconnect, as well as in his brother Jonah's promiscuity, even when
he has a wife and newborn baby at home. Gene's attempt to bond with his
two sons is affected by his own flaws. This humanistic condition for
connection is at the forefront of the film and engages the audience
into contemplating how and why we act the way we do, focusing on the
relationships within our own family.

What sets Louder Than Bombs apart from other films of recent memory are
the surreal moments Trier infuses within the story. Disregarding the
traditional method of linear storytelling by shifting between the past
and the present, these added moments put visuals to feelings that have
a hard time being expressed otherwise. They are not the character's
dreams, rather, they are daydreams- or what one wonders about without
limitations. These moments are hauntingly beautiful and stand out as
works of art on their own.

On the acting front, the assembled cast could not have been better.
Jesse Eisenberg is fantastic in the role of Jonah, his trademark
quick-witted clamor is controlled and even understated, serving as the
voice of reason in the film. Gabriel Byrne plays the widowed Gene with
sensitivity as a conflicted father trying to navigate his own direction
in life, who is not without his own flaws. Devin Druid embodies the
angsty, brooding teenager Conrad to such a believable degree while
still holding onto the innocence of being a misunderstood child. These,
plus the stellar performances from Isabella Huppert, David Strathairn,
and Amy Ryan, truly give the film it's footing.

The title- Louder Than Bombs suggests an epic, grandiose drama, but
instead, what Trier creates is a meditative and restrained film that is
not at all loud or brash. It is a psychological trip that leads back to
the celebration of one's own uniqueness coming together to fulfill the
family dynamic. There is no doubt that Joachim Trier took a risk with
Louder Than Bombs, but I believe his creative vision has the potential
to pay off tenfold.

For more, visit: www.cinemacy.com
<|_=00=_|>
No likable characters, or at least, all the male characters - Jonah,
Gene and Conrad, which were the leads really, are really not all that
personable.

The characters are somewhat irritating, and their inability to
communicate with each other extends all the way past the fourth wall,
to the viewer.

It's very difficult to feel empathy for an adulterer, a disrespectful
weirdo and a spineless man. Sympathy maybe, but, empathy was just too
arduous.

And sure, Louder Than Bombs was attempting a portrayal of raw and
actual real life experience in front of a camera... But sadly, real
life can be quite boring to watch.

I do however like that Jonah gave Conrad the advice he gave him about
his (Conrad) love interest, that Conrad narrated that his love interest
would forget about him the next day after their early morning walk and
that Gene and Hannah's relationship ended the way it did, because all
of that, like it or not, is usually how life turns out for the average
man, and Louder Than Bombs didn't uncharacteristically abandon that sad
truth.

But, this film was a bit taxing, though, it had all the best
intentions. 5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Louder than Bombs is a frustrating movie because it's so beautifully
edited and directed but everything about it just falls flat. 

The film is about the Reeds, a family made up of a father and his two
sons, one an adult starting his own family, the other a teen, who are
all coping with the loss of the mother of the family Isabelle, a war
photographer who died 4 years earlier. The events in the film are
triggered because a retrospective of Isabelle's work is being put on
and a friend and journalist writing an article regarding her life warns
Isabelle's widow that he plans to be "honest" about the way she died
implying that the car crash she died in might not have been accidental
after all. The rest of the film follows these three men as they stumble
around their lives, reminiscing about the Isabelle they knew and didn't
know and struggling to move forward. 

It's a very watchable film, but it's also somehow not enough. The
struggles of the film feel self-indulgent and it's one of those films
where women exist only to be lusted over or listen sympathetically to
the men as they talk about their problems and throw tantrums. Even
legendary actress Isabelle Huppert, as the ghost that haunts the
family, doesn't get much to chew on. The worst part is that it's a
movie that isn't easy to write off entirely. The youngest son is a bit
of a writer and the way his text is layered over with images leads to
some beautiful editing and some true movie magic. It's just a shame
that these great moments don't quite live up to what they could have
been if they had had strong emotion to back them up.
