
Bwakaw embarks upon the life's journey of Mang Rene, a cranky old
homosexual man. I've seen other gay movies but this is so far the most
natural, every-day-scene, or could-be-my-neighbor kind of setting. The
delivery of lines are so natural that it didn't feel scripted at all.
But of course! This was a powerhouse cast! Led by none other than one
of the greatest actors that has ever graced the Philippine Cinema  Mr.
Eddie Garcia himself! Add to that another classical icon in the
industry  Ms. Armida Siguion-Reyna. Now, who could possibly top these
two actors who are, to quote a line from the movie, "older than the
Philippine Constitution??? And I mean that in the most positive way,
that their length and quality of service to the Philippine movie
industry is already immeasurable. So, it is only right for us to give
honor.

Other good actors who graced this film are: Gardo Versoza, Soxie
Topacio, Alan Paule, Luz Valdez, Rez Cortez, Beverly Salviejo, Jonathan
Neri, May-I Fabros, Soliman Cruz, Roni Bertubin, and Joey Paras. I will
not detail who played who, so as not to preempt other would-be watchers
of this movie. Go figure that out yourself! ;) Or just go to their
Facebook Fanpage. Actually, I'm just too lazy to write it down because
it would just be a waste of time and space when you can find it in
their Fanpage already. Am I right? Now, moving on to what I liked about
this movie click here for full review, go to:
http://heblogs-sheblogs.com
<|_=00=_|>
Rene (in a career-topping performance by superstar Eddie Garcia) spends
his days revising his last will and testament, grousing to neighbors
and colleagues (at the post office where he continues to work even
though he is no longer on the payroll), ever in the company of a
scrawny mutt with the onomatopoeic name Bwakaw.

Rene shares his bed with a santa entiento inherited from his devout
mother, which has grown miraculously over the years but is unable to
deliver miracles when they are most needed.

In the film's most tender and heart-rending scenes, Rene journeys to a
nursing home to visit Alicia (Armida Siguion Reyna), whose dementia
lifts in a brief moment of lucidity that illuminates the years lost to
both of them because of Rene's long journey to knowledge about his
sexuality.

Shot in San Pablo Laguna. Dedicated to the playwright Rene O.
Villanueva. Another entirely original film from the Philippines. What
is in their water?
<|_=00=_|>
This has got to be one of the most endearing, charming and poignant
films of 2012. It's not your typical commercial Filipino movie which is
often high on melodrama and low on subtlety. The first 10-15 minutes
start a little slow, but then the story picks up and it quickly becomes
utterly engaging and lovely up to the very end. This could have a very
syrupy sentimental film but it's not. In this alternately funny and
moving drama set in postcard-like rural Philippines, Eddie Garcia gives
a towering performance, probably the best of his career, in a searing
character study of an old man in his twilight years who has secluded
himself from the world but eventually learns to live again due to his
friendship with a stray dog. I was lucky to catch a screening at the
Palm Springs International FIlm Festival with a packed audience in
attendance. Believe me, not an eye was left dry when the film was
concluded. Truly a fantastic film.
<|_=00=_|>
Bwakaw (2012) is a movie from the Philippines, written and directed by
Jun Lana. Rene, played by Eddie Garcia, is a misanthropic older gay
man. Rene lives in a semi-rural area, not too far from a larger city.
He has no real friends, because he repulses people who try to engage
him in friendship. Eddie's great love in life is his little dog,
Bwakaw, played by Princess.

There are two threads to the plot--a serious illness suffered by
Bwakaw, and a developing friendship between Rene and a younger man. The
movie is worth watching to see how these plot lines develop.

We saw the film at the Little Theatre as part of Image Out--The
Rochester LGBT Film Festival. It will work well on the small screen.
<|_=00=_|>
I really like how the story reflects a portion of Philippine society
and culture.

Even though Sol is homophobic, the issue of homosexuality isn't taken
as really big deal which is good because it somehow implies that
sexuality isn't really a big deal when you're trying to be human.

The slow pace of the story aligns with the way Rene perceives time,
since he is an old man waiting for his death, time couldn't have gone
slower.

The cinematography isn't more about capturing beauty but more about
trying to keep the eyes of the viewers on the screen. But in one
particular scene where Rene kissed Sol out of curiosity, there was much
camera movement which added suspense that maybe Sol would wake up.

The sound was also great. It really captured the silence of the
provincial areas in the Philippines.

Overall the movie is great! It's a must watch for a Filipino and I rate
it 8/10 because of its social relevance and accuracy of cinematic
techniques in portraying this Filipino story.
<|_=00=_|>
I have known about this movie when it was one of the featured films in
the recent Cinemalaya Film Fest. However aside from the terrible title,
the synopsis describing a film an elderly gay man with his dog was so
bleak, it did not interest me at all. Maybe because it won Eddie Garcia
a Best Actor award, it was given a commercial run which was good, but I
still did not have a plan to watch it. Well, that is until this morning
when I found out that this film will be our country's entry to the
Oscars Foreign Language Film category for this year. Honestly, that was
the only reason why I felt I should give it a chance after all.

Unfortunately, this film turned out to be as bleak and as dry as its
synopsis suggested. It was indeed about an elderly gay man named Rene
(Eddie Garcia) and his dog Bwakaw (played by an "aspin"/"askal" named
Princess). The drama played for an hour and a half or maybe more, as
slow, as straightforward and as predictable as that. 

There were of course some people in his neighborhood he interacted
with, like his nosy next-door neighbor Nitang (Beverly Salviejo), the
gays at the beauty salon (Soxie Topacio and Joey Paras), his co-workers
in the Post Office (Luz Valdez and Allan Paule), the priest who was
always seen fanning himself (Gardo Versoza) and the tricycle driver the
old curmudgeon decided to befriend (Rez Cortez). The elegant Ms. Armida
Siguion-Reyna stood out in her featured role as Alicia, the girlfriend
Rene kept hanging for 15 years, only not to marry. I see the name of
Bibeth Orteza in the cast list, but I honestly do not remember seeing
her in the film.

OK, there were some scenes that made me laugh. There was even a scene
that made me tear up. There was a scene that I felt certain was bound
to happen, it did, but I wish it did not. However, the main fault of
this film is that there were no big surprises at all. There were no
hidden symbolism or deeper meanings. It did not challenge me think at
all. I felt I have seen this same story of growing old lonely told many
times before in many a made-for-TV drama show. "Bwakaw" is not really
that bad, but is this it? Is this really the BEST we have to show the
world this year to compete for the Oscars?
