
My heart is still rolling from the escape to 30's Europe this
afternoon, and without jet lag. This movie is an inspiration, a dream,
a walk through a painting and a study of humanity. 

Ralph Fiennes﻿ is a phenomenon as M. Gustave. his interactions with
every cast member and especially newcomer Tony Revolori are fantastic.
The later holds his own weight beyond belief and the entire film is an
amazing adventure with James Bond style chases, a large murder mystery,
the best placed cussing and of course the sensational cinematography.
The sets, models, angles and even the most nondescript characters come
to life each on their own and together as a symphony of beauty. It's
freaking brilliant; The Grand Budapest Hotel.
<|_=00=_|>
Can a film be absurd, funny, exciting, violent and colourful at the
same time? Yes. 'The Grand Budapest Hotel' combines all those elements.
And I didn't even mention the most important characteristic: it is
visually wonderful. 

In this film, director Wes Anderson creates his own universe, full of
colourful characters, old-world charm and witty one-liners. The nice
thing about creating your own universe is that you can make it look
perfect. Every shot, every little detail and every set is flawless.
From lead character Gustave H.'s purple jacket to the title of the
newspaper announcing the war (The Trans-Alpine Yodel) - Anderson has
given thought and attention to everything. 

The story is not very important, because it is merely a vehicle for the
stunning visuals, the dark humour and the rapid-fire dialogue. It's all
about a hotel concierge, Gustave H., who is being chased by various
villains for stealing a painting. All this is set against the backdrop
of the Nazis invading Central Europe (although in Anderson's fantasy
world they are not called Nazis of course). Some of the scenes are very
funny, but there is always a darker tone because of the looming war.
Anderson doesn't shy away from extreme violence, but he shows it in an
offbeat and almost comical manner. 

My favourite scene, in which it all comes together, shows concierges in
hotels all over Europe, calling each other to help Gustave H. Each of
them is shown in his hotel (with a wonderful fantasy name off course),
busy doing some important job like tasting the soup or giving first aid
to an unconscious hotel guest, when he is being called away to the
telephone. Each hands the job over to his assistant, and answers the
phone. This fast succession of little scenes is done so perfectly, it's
a great joy to watch. 

Ralph Fiennes steals the show as the sophisticated Gustave H., who
never despairs, even in the most unfavourable circumstances. He is
supported by a large number of star actors, who are sometimes almost
unrecognizable. Because of the amount of support actors, some of them
are a bit underused. Tilda Swinton gets rather little screen time, as
does Harvey Keitel. 

The film moves forward at a breakneck speed. You have to be very alert
in order not to miss something. The plot is not always very easy to
follow, and the dialogue is fast. And there are the great camera angles
and the wonderful detailed sets to pay attention to. I think by seeing
the film a second time you can discover lots of things you didn't
notice the first time.
<|_=00=_|>
Wes Anderson is one of the most original film makers working today.
None of his films can be categorized into any particular genre. His
latest, The Grand Budapest Hotel, which opened the Berlin Film
Festival, continues that trend. It is a tale within a tale within
another tale. Whilst every shot has been meticulously arranged as
though a work of Art hanging in a museum, story wise Anderson has let
his imagination run wild. Though the tale (with Tom Wilkinson as the
author of the story) and the tale within the tale (with Jude Law as the
young author & F Murray Abraham as the mysterious owner of THe Grand
Budapest Hotel) have straightforward narratives, the tale within the
tale within the tale, which comprises the bulk of the film and is set
in the years preceding the Second World War, is a wild uproarious train
ride of story telling. It also boasts the cast of a life time: Ralph
Fiennes, Tilda Swinton, Edward Norton, Adrien Brody, Willem Dafoe,
Harvey Keitel, Jeff Goldblum, Bill Murray, Owen Wilson & countless
cameos. It will delight Anderson fans but is more likely destined for
Art house cinemas as it is too off center for mainstream audiences. The
production design and music are outstanding and even the end credits
are imaginatively done (and received another ovation from the
audience).
<|_=00=_|>
I would consider myself a Wes Anderson fan, however in saying that, I
have only seen a handful of his movies. I was very excited for The
Grand Budapest Hotel, because of its excellent cast, the fact it's
directed by Wes Anderson and just by how unique it looked. After
watching The Grand Budapest Hotel, I can confidently say that it's my
new favourite Wes Anderson film, and probably his best.

As I was hoping, the story to The Grand Budapest Hotel is very original
and unique, some may even say strange. And as the movie goes on, the
story only gets wilder and wilder. The film is often very hilarious,
with some seriously funny dark humour thrown in there as well.
Characters are extremely well written, with the bond between Gustave
and Zero being the backbone of the whole movie as it's so well written.
The Grand Budapest Hotel features an odd narrative structure that works
very well for the film, again adding to the uniqueness and freshness of
it. I wasn't exactly sure how the story would play out, as I purposely
avoided all promotional materiel so I would know as little as possible
before watching. This was a great benefit to my viewing experience as I
loved everything I saw, and felt as though nothing was spoiled from
watching too many trailers.

I haven't been a huge fan of most of Ralph Fiennes' work since his
phenomenal performance in 1993′s "Schindler's List", but this is easily
his best performance since then. He proves he can do comedy just as
well as he can do drama, providing a perfect balance of both. Newcomer
Tony Revolori is excellent as well. I won't get into the whole
supporting cast because there's so many who were all so great, but I
was particularly impressed by Willem Dafoe, Adrien Brody, Harvey
Keitel, Jude Law and Saoirse Ronan.

The Grand Budapest Hotel is definitely a Wes Anderson film, down to its
very core. If you know his style, then you known what to expect, as
this movie is full of it. Thankfully though, it's not a case of style
over substance, with a great story to accompany the gorgeous visuals.
The colour palette is beautiful; it's nice to see lot's of bright
colours when so many other films are so dark and dreary. The set design
and costumes are perfect, and there's so much attention to detail
within the sets. The cinematography is phenomenal, and I really like
how the film was presented in different aspect ratios.

You really can't go wrong with this film. It's probably Wes Anderson's
best film, it has gorgeous visuals, excellent acting and a wonderful
story. If you're a fan of Wes Anderson's previous work, you cannot miss
this, and even if you're not a fan you should go and see it anyway.
<|_=00=_|>
Wes Anderson is one of the last directors -auteurs- who's got complete
control on the film set and has the power to make whatever kind of film
he desires. His distinct visual style is apparent since his 1996 debut
Bottle Rcoket. But that was just a start, with every film he made he
was perfecting his technique more and more. This marvelous attention to
detail, the way he composes his shots( tracking shots, the symmetry,
the characters running in slow-motion), chase scenes, love story,
nostalgia, explanatory montages, the colourful set design and the
prevalent theme of every one of his films: family. This all adds up to
the reason why the audience enjoys Anderson's film so much. This all is
brought to perfection in Grandhotel Budapest. 

Through complex narrative framework, which itself is a mockery of all
these films that are being narrated by someone and is also being an
excuse for not being too realistic, we get to a story of a young lobby
boy named Zero Moustafa and Gustave H. (Ralph Fiennes)the concierge of
the Grandhotel Budapest. Many of the female guests of the hotel mainly
come to enjoy Gustave's company. When one of these ladies passes away,
Gustave grabs Zero and boards a train for her mansion. Soon he's blamed
for her murder and hunted by police led by Edward Norton and a
grim-faced assassin played by Willem Dafoe. There also is a love story
between two young teens - Zero and Agatha (Saoirse Ronan) who has a
birthmark in the shape of Mexico.

I frankly don't understand how can this film be successful in the USA.
This film is just so typically European, that I guess some aspects of
the film Americans just aren't familiar with. Some of the humor
reminded of old French, Italian and Czech comedies. 

Wes Anderson remains to be a stand-out filmmaker who never disappoints
with any of his creations and is a safe bet to rely on his qualities.
You won't want to return to the real world when the credits start to
roll.
<|_=00=_|>
The Grand Budapest Hotel is the latest from Wes Anderson, and what
great fun it is. My review of Monuments Men pointed out that putting
the likes of George Clooney, Matt Damon, Cate Blanchett, Jean Dujardin,
Bill Murray and Hugh Bonneville in the same film was no guarantee of a
good film. Following that logic, what should we make of the following
turning up together: Ralph Fiennes, Bill Murray, F. Murray Abraham,
Adrien Brody, Willem Defoe, Jeff Goldblum, Jude Law, Edward Norton, Tom
Wilkinson, Saoirse Ronan, Owen Wilson and (a wonderfully made up) Tilda
Swinton? The answer is a near masterpiece of cameos that add up to a
highly entertaining and memorable film.

In a complex serious of flashbacks, Tom Wilkinson plays an author
remembering his younger self (Jude Law) being recounted, a number of
years before, the life story of The Grand Budapest's mysterious elderly
guest Zero Moustafa, played by Abraham. (Are you still with me?)
Featuring strongly in this life story, Ralph Fiennes plays hotel
concierge and lothario Gustave H., seducer of his elderly and wealthy
guests. He is supported in this role  for everything outside the
bedroom that is  by trainee Bellboy, and Gustave's protégé, Zero (in
the younger form of Tony Revolori).

Following the murder of one such guest (Tilda Swinton), Gustave is not
surprised to feature strongly in her will, awarded a priceless
Renaissance painting  Boy with Apple. This is much to the displeasure
of her son Dimitri (Adrien Brody) and his evil henchman Jopling (Willem
Defoe). What follows is a madcap pursuit across snowy landscapes,
various grisly murders, a couple of civil wars, some disconnected
fingers, a prison break and a downhill ski chase.

All the cast seem to enjoy themselves immensely, but it is the
production design and cinematography that really shines through: every
single shot of the film is just a joy to look at, from the bright
pastel colours of some scenes to the oak-panelled finery of the elderly
lady's mansion. Beautifully crafted, beautifully lit,beautifully
costumed, beautifully filmed. Bringing a film out so early in the new
Oscar-year must be risky: but one can only hope that the voting members
have a long enough memory to recognise this movie in these sorts of
categories.

There are some interesting crossovers to recent films: both 'The Book
Thief' and 'The Monuments Men' were filmed  as this was  in Studio
Babelsberg in Potsdam. No coincidence then that the steam train
chugging through the East European countryside looked startlingly
similar to that in the opening scenes of 'The Book Thief'; and if you
have Bill Murray and Bob Balaban in town for Monuments Men, then why
not stick them together for this film too? Simples! Alexandre Desplat
turns up AGAIN with another quirky and fitting score.

All in all, if you like the quirky style of films of the likes of
Moulin Rouge then you'll love this. Highly recommended.

(If you enjoyed this review, please check out my archive of other
reviews and while there sign up to "Follow the Fad"! Thanks!).
<|_=00=_|>
21 March 2014 Film of Choice at The Plaza Tonight - The Grand Budapest
Hotel. I really had no idea what this film was about, having seen only
one trailer which in the event, bore no relation to the plot
whatsoever. However, my interest was piqued so this evening found me
watching a splendid little film packed to the rafters with stars. This
was the tale of Gustave H, the legendary and infamous Concierge of The
Grand Budapest Hotel, a rather glamorous edifice perched atop a
mountain and his protégé and most trusted friend Zero, The Lobby Boy.
This is a tale of friendship, murder, revenge and deep dark plotting.
There were some completely ridiculous moments which were quite
refreshing and several, what I like to call Guffaw moments where
several members of the audience emit a loud blast of laughter followed
by slightly hysterical giggling that you find yourself joining in with.
As I said a host of stars in this film ranging from Ralph Fiennes, Jeff
Goldblum, Jude Law and Bill Murray to Tilda Swinton, Owen Wilson and
Harvey Keitel to name a few, but one of the outstanding performances
must go to Tony Revolori, a relatively unknown young actor who plays
Zero, who is In almost every scene. An entertaining film, worth
watching.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the previews several times, I thought I would enjoy a
delightful almost-fantasy-like film. But, at age 64, after going to the
movies literally hundreds of times in my lifetime, I did something
today that I've only ever done 3 times previously -- I walked out of a
movie halfway through the picture. I didn't blame Wes Anderson, because
clearly his films have a following...but I thought it must be an
acquired taste...that I had not acquired. I admitted that it was a
uniquely visually pleasing film, but I wondered why so many fine actors
agreed to what were rather small parts. At the time I said that this
film bored me even more than "Moonrise Kingdom". 

The the other night it was on cable. I thought I would give it another
try, but I fully expected to turn it off at home, also. Perhaps it
helped that rather than watch it all in one setting, I broke it into
roughly 30 minute segments with breaks in between. Guess what. This
time I liked it. I'm not saying I loved it. But I did like it. What did
I see this time that I didn't see before. Well, perhaps the
tongue-in-cheek attitude of the film. The chance to see Ralph Finnes be
downright silly instead of his typical dramatic role. The wonderful
photography and special effects. The skill of young actor Tony
Revolori. The pleasure of seeing F. Murray Abraham again. And, this
time enjoying the many "cameo" shots.

I still think it dragged on a bit too long (at 100 minutes there are
still a few small bits that could have been edited more tightly or even
eliminated). And, I'm still not a raving fan of it. But, this time
around I did "like" it. But it won't end up on my DVD shelf, and I
doubt I'll watch it again. But, bravo...good (not great) job!
<|_=00=_|>
Wes Anderson seems to be one of those Directors to look forward to as
he has gained a reputation for his quirky eccentricity and stylish
flair over the years. In his new film, 'The Grand Budapest Hotel' he
tightly weaves together a crime caper that is sharp, witty and slick,
but sadly lacks interesting characters.

I won't go too far in explaining the plot because a lot happens in the
1 hour and 40 minute running time. The narrative is rather complex as
it is handed down from Tom Wilkinson who plays the author who hands the
story to his younger self played by Jude Law, who then speaks to Mr
Moustafa (F. Murray Abraham) who then tells Jude Law his times of when
he got a job as a Lobby Boy at the Grand Budapest Hotel, working for
the eccentric perfectionist M. Gustave (Ralph Fiennes). We then move
from the run down Hotel of that time to the 1930′s when the hotel was
booming. We see the hotel in a wedding cake style aesthetic, where
anyone who is anyone in the aristocratic world comes to stay, and alt
of the time, sleep with Gustave. This includes elderly aristocrat
Madame D (An unrecognisable Tilda Swinton). When Madame D dies, she
leaves Gustave a priceless painting 'Boy with Apple', to the disgust of
Madame D's greedy family, especially her conniving son Dimitri (Adrien
Brody). This starts off a chain events which involve lawyers and hit
men, an elaborate prison break, a secret society, a woman who hides
things in her detailed cakes, and unspecified war and much more.

The film looks amazing. It adopts the aesthetic which has become the
signature of Wes Anderson films. The perfect framing, the elaborate set
design, the costumes matching the sets and all the quirkiness and
eccentric deadpan humour to boot. Ralph Fiennes proves to be a
fantastic comic lead. His sense of timing and delivery is perfect.
Also, his character is very interesting as he initially comes across as
a self serving eccentric, but as the film goes on, you realise he has a
lot of good in him. Unfortunately, I felt he was the only interesting
character in it. Many of the touted cameos which include Owen Wilson,
Jason Schwartzman, Bill Murray, Lea Seydoux, Harvey Keitel, Jeff
Goldblum and Willem Dafoe play a small part in the plot, but a lot of
them are underused. The talented Saoirse Ronan I felt was particularly
underused. The intricate and complicated plot felt tiresome towards the
end as so much takes place and the dialogue is so quick and sharp, that
if you miss a line, you will miss a big part of the plot. It started to
feel too cluttered as there were too many people in it and too much
happening. It is still consistently funny and dazzling, but lacked
emotional involvement that it felt slightly empty. I think personally,
I still pine for Wes Anderson's more melancholic tones of 'The Royal
Tenembaums' and 'Rushmore'. In those films, I cared more for the
characters and enjoyed the visual and quirky style. I feel his films
are drifting towards a more silly and farcical tone, which is fine, but
in my opinion I don't feel it is for the better.

See my Film Review Blog - www.projectionistreview.wordpress.com
<|_=00=_|>
Having been to a few of Wes Anderson's films, the twee, absurd
caricature, dead-pan precious, lush, scenic, cardboard Tim Burton-esque
cinematography that many insisted is synonymous with "intelligent
humour" were all expected. What wasn't is the insufferable, sophomoric
idiocy of the story, gratuitous characters and shallowness of the plot,
the script, the character development, the entire purpose of the making
of this film. What on earth is it suppose to say?! What deeper layers
are there to uncover other than it being a madcap caper about
promiscuous hotel staff carrying on with obscenely rich geriatrics,
murderous villains and relatives, an outrageous and unbelievable
jailbreak adventure? What is the point to this wedding cake indulgence
of a film, exactly? And please don't sniff haughtily with a "You just
don't get its brilliance/genius/subversion/provocation,
blah..blah...blah...go watch a Tom Cruise flick!" retort. I honestly
don't get much more from this film than its gruel thin plot.
