
SPOILER ALERT 

I simply cannot believe the positive reviews on this movie. It was in a
word....terrible. The theme was important-that the (financial) system
is "rigged" and perhaps that was what attracted a big name like George
Clooney to it. I think the only redeeming quality of the movie was
George Clooneys acting, which he seems to do so effortlessly.

But the execution of this movie was laughable. There are simply too
many ridiculous and non believable actions by humans in this movie to
list here, and I've forgotten more ridiculous things than I have
remembered. But, it ruined the movie.

First, the obvious one that has been mentioned before. There is simply
NO WAY a producer would decide to keep a hostage taker live on the air
like the way she did. The hostage taker was obviously an idiot with no
understanding of the technicalities of a TV show production, and would
have not known whether he was live on the air or not. The movie lost
most of its credibility within a very short time after it began because
of this.

A few things other things that I do remember were especially comical.
The movie seemed to be written by someone who has ZERO understanding of
the financial markets/investment industry. That would be OK, except
that the whole movie was focused on this industry. The fact that the
writers/director didn't care to do their homework is representative of
the laziness and lack of detail that you see over and over again in
this film. For instance, the term "algo" was used countless times with
seemingly no understanding of what an algo does or its potential
ability to move a stock price for an extended period of time (and none
of the people who were supposedly in the investment industry seemed to
know in the movie either). 

So many math problems too! The hostage taker in the movie supposedly
bought the stock of IBIS Pharma at $75/share (mentioned by Clooney),
and the companys stock price during the hostage taking (after an "algo
attack") dropped it $8/share where is was during the film. Clooney
mentioned that the hostage taker lost 60% on the stock, but this would
have been an almost 90% drop. The hostage taker said he "lost $60K"
with the stock drop, and at a later time the detectives learned that
the hostage taker had gotten $60K exactly from his mother which he put
all in this stock. Well, he would have then lost 60% or 90% of the $60K
right? And he only would have lost that money if he had actually sold
the stock, but based on what happened in the movie (when Clooney was
trying to get the public to buy the stock to make him whole again) he
was still holding the stock. Also, Clooney said he wanted to "triple"
the stock to make the hostage taker whole but really that would have
only gotten the stock back into the $20's, far from where he he bought
the stock at $75K. The lack of attention to detail drove this viewer
crazy!

There was a mention in the movie that the company in the middle of the
whole controversy "had all of its pensions depleted", as if the stock
price of this specific company had any affect on the value of its
pensions (which would be diversified in any corporation into
bonds/stocks, etc, NOT invested solely in its own company stock!).
Furthermore it seemed to be the case that IBIS's OWN algo was
responsible was its stock price dipping 90%, as if IBIS would be in the
business of controlling its own stock with an algo, which is highly
illegal (and impossible for an extended period of time). No one in the
industry seemed to think this was an usual thing. Later in the movie
there was some Asian genius that appeared for a minute that seemed to
know all about the algo, and made some seemingly profound statement
like "its just math" and said there was no way an algo could be
completely responsible for dropping a stock price 90% for an extended
period of time. He said this as if 100% of the people in the investment
industry would not have known this already.

You also had a hostage taker walking the streets of NY with a gun and a
bomb and a hostage, and the NYPD seemed to think it was OK to allow
pedestrians withing spitting distance from the man, and when the man
opened fire on the crowd, the police said "dont shoot" (at the hostage
taker)? Are you kidding me?

It was an F.
<|_=00=_|>
MASSIVE SPOILER ALERT!!!! Part of the appeal of this sort of a movie is
to see the REAL bad guy get his comeuppance. The real bad guy was of
course - Gates. Even more so than Camby and certainly not Kyle (he's
just a whiny "Never been told I'm wrong" Y-Gen loser) Gates is a ring
master at a freak show. The decadence of Wall Street and reality TV
show meets game show of the Money Monster is atrocious. I needed the
climax to be that Camby was exposed but it all got watered down and the
consolation prize to our emotions was to see Kyle gunned down. It
cheated me - not Kyle.

The movie was OK but Clooney - I dunno. He's not an action star, not a
comedian, what the hell is he? For me the most overrated actor in a
generation. Speaking of overrated - Ms Roberts takes the cake. So the
choice was more about box office appeal than substance.

I'm sure the NYPD would have plenty to say about the way police
procedures were portrayed. While I'm watching it I'm thinking 'it's
just a movie. It was so 'staged'. Zero character development. Zero
empathy for anyone other than maybe Kyle (a bit) and what the hell was
that scene with the girlfriend?? Was it comedy relief? They would have
cut her off with the first sentence. That, by the way, would have been
more artistic and funnier.

I'd have liked the relationship between Clooney and Roberts to have
mirrored Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Whozis from "The Abyss" but that
would have taken time this film didn't seem to have.

Love you Jodie - maybe better next time. This was average at best and
tragically, could have been better.
<|_=00=_|>
Considering this is a pretty intense movie about a desperate guy
threatening to shoot and blow up people, this movie had moments of
unexpected humour. The whole cinema was laughing at various points.
Which was very cleverly done by director, Jodie Foster. The movie is
well scripted and well acted. Clooney and Roberts clearly enjoy working
together (just don't remind me of Ocean's 12). I agree with the other
reviewer who said the movie should have just stopped with the return to
the foosball table, and not gone for the schmaltzy hospital scene. Not
the greatest movie of the year and not Oscar-worthy, but well worth the
price of the movie ticket. Can't understand why it's only got a rating
of 6.8 on IMDb.
<|_=00=_|>
The story is SO VERY familiar , so many similar stories have been done
before, often as a success, this is far from that.SO not one to
remember fondly. Other than being so slow and ultimately very
predictable, acting from most of the lead actors overall is at best
okay, some scenes were actually unintentionally silly, But the support
actors especially the studio crews, the cameramen etc. were all totally
so unbelievable, so limp. The police pathetic SO this meant no
surprises, no wow, no make us think , no interesting scenes , even if
good at start of scene, was to often leaving me with a feeling of
emptiness, did I fall asleep, blink to long ,as no punchlines , no
drama, no fear, a waste of a good moment, a waste of a good point etc.
, no drama, no emotion , no anything. What may of seemed a good idea to
someone, shows how even a group of people so experienced and more than
qualified took the money and went on holiday, not for a rest, as they
all did that , very well already. This seems like a low budget 70s T.V
movie. waste of money and actors time..AND MINE. Director must of been
on holiday while filming as got nothing out of story or actors, so
nothing to give us the fans.
<|_=00=_|>
The premise of this movie could have been a lot better thought out and
a lot more logical or realistic. For a George Clooney film, this should
have been a lot better. Anyone with any common sense as far as the
police handling a live hostage situation. As soon as the NYPD allowed
the girlfriend to go on TV only to call him stupid, dumb, etc. I
watched the movie in the background.

And the horrible humor parts of this movie, c'mon, it was so out in
left field it just made this movie more of a joke, until you hear that
the NYPD is planning to shoot the hostage in order to unarm a bomb vest
and eh...don't waste your time.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of few real time films -meaning the flow of events matches
the duration of the film- that is quite successful in keeping the
viewer's attention all along, and Jodie Foster is very efficient as a
director presenting what seems initially a daunting technical subject
(how a computer "glitch" causes an 800 Million Dollar loss to
shareholders in a public traded company) as a dramatic thriller that
never looses pace.

The cast is excellent, Julia Roberts as the ever conscious producer
calculating how each camera angle is best to follow on the unfolding
live drama, George Clooney in one of his finest roles as the careless
theatrical advice giver of the money program who gradually comes to
realize how damaging his show is to the masses (in one particular
touching scene he is in the street in NY and sees on-lookers imitating
his dance moves on the show, and he becomes aware of what a buffoon he
is), and finally Jack O'Connel who is very convincing as the candid
investor who really wants to know how "the system" works (casting him
was an inspired choice, he is not a well-known actor so he adds more
credibility to the character he plays, a simple man from the street who
looses all his money in Wall Street). None of the main or even
secondary characters in the film are one dimensional, they have their
problems (like lonely dinners for some) and concerns and values,
whether it is the camera man or the public relations lady officer
reporting to the big CEO, or even the main police officers in charge,
all are multi-dimensional characters and their human aspects are not
ignored. 

Even though the film deals with a serious subject, an eye opener
leading one to wonder about the real money monsters out there, it
remains an excellent thriller with top class actors.
<|_=00=_|>
Directed by Jodie Foster, "Money Monster" rehashes the cliché film
dramatization of Wall Street fraud and the commonplace Americans who
are the big losers in a tycoon's greed.

George Clooney and Julia Roberts have good chemistry as the star
television talking head Lee Gates and his hard-working producer Patty
Fenn. The simplistic story is that of a "hostage drama" when Gates is
held captive in the studio by a crazed investor who has lost his
fortune due to a Wall Street scammer and the advice given over the air
by Gates. The plot unfolds with Gates and Fenn actually bonding with
the terrorist to get to the bottom of malfeasance on the part of the
CEO of a company called IBIS.

With the primary setting a television broadcast studio, this film might
have worked better as a made-for-TV movie, as opposed to a feature
film. Most of the action was predictable, and much of it was also
unbelievable. The relationship of the young terrorist and his wife was
entirely unconvincing. And the inaction on the part of the SWAT team,
who had successfully surrounded the terrorist both in the studio and
outdoors, was equally improbable.

In the end, "Money Monster" was a formula film that should not provide
any surprises to viewers. The only cliché that was missing from the
film was a slow crawl across the screen that reads, "Based on a True
Story."
<|_=00=_|>
The causes of the global financial crisis of 2008-2010 and the
mechanisms that speculators use are complicated and thus not easily
packaged into a 90-minute movie. But movies such as "Margin Call",
"Arbitrage", "Wall Street" and especially the documentary "Inside Job"
do a much better job of explaining them than "Money Monster". Producer-
actor George Clooney is known for his anti-establishment movies, and
ones such as "Ides of March" are excellent. But on this occasion he and
director Jodie Foster try to do too much: denunciation of Wall Street,
financial markets, crooked bankers and the news media. Clooney's
character is akin to that of well-known financial network program
hosts, and thus not original. His banter with Robert's character is at
times funny and in my view only saving grace of "Money Monster". But
many parts of the plot are a stretch: lack of security at a major
financial news network and police restraint. The corrupt banker's
investment is in the same sector as in "Arbitrage". Globalization has
many discontents. Movies and the media should be cautious about coming
close to justifying violent reactions, especially as copycat behavior
has been proved.
<|_=00=_|>
"Money Monster" begins brilliantly. The opening scenes set in a
television studio seem authentic on a very detailed level. The pace is
frantic and various characters and subplots are introduced organically.
The direction is assured, acting is superb and production values are
excellent. The first act offers every assurance this will be a
compelling drama, if not an instant classic. 

But then it loses momentum. The hostage/revenge plot is too boneheaded
to maintain interest for long and the underlying defalcation makes no
sense at all. An average Joe invests $60M in the stock of a company
that loses $800MM in a single day, causing its stock to lose about 85%
of its value. The guy then complains that he's lost everything he had.
Granted, he took a huge beating, but he should still have stock worth
about $10M, unless he purchased on margin, but we don't know. Then we
learn the company has a fleet of corporate jets, at least one of which
is a Lear Jet 85 with a base sticker price of $20.8MM. If the company
is large enough to have perhaps $75-150MM invested in jets, one
wouldn't expect even a $800MM loss to have such a devastating effect.
But why is this average Joe buying equity shares? Wouldn't he
ordinarily invest in some investment fund or pool managed by the
company? There is another scheme to artificially depress another
company's stock in order to earn billions on the defalcated $800MM. But
for this to work, that company would need to lose about 75% of its
market value and then rebound. The mechanics, timing and scale make no
sense at all and there is no way the villain could expect to pull it
off without getting caught. He would have done better trying to smuggle
cocaine on his Lear. But DeLorean already tried something like that and
it didn't turn out well. 

But maybe it doesn't need to make sense. After all the recent financial
scandals, the burst of the housing bubble, Greece, Brexit, the
precarious state of pension funds and the imminent bankruptcy of the
Social Security trust fund, perhaps movie audiences don't need much
evidence to assume some slick financial type is a villain. 

At one point, Clooney's Gates character tells the villain that his
scheme isn't complicated. That's the problem. The plot needs a
brilliant scheme that requires Gates's unique skills and efforts to
unravel. Instead, it is a rather obvious plot that Roberts's Fenn
unravels behind the scenes with the assistance of a character turned
whistle-blower for reasons that aren't explored sufficiently to make
them credible, with the assistance of a group of hackers who are able
to find an obscure bit of evidence on a surveillance camera that would
be zoomed in at nothing but an empty patch of ground if a couple of
people hadn't decided to frame themselves perfectly while one of them
incriminated himself. 

The police involvement seems authentic initially, but stretches
credibility during a bizarre sort of chase scene and culminates in an
inexplicable act of violence against an individual who has gained
widespread sympathy while recorded on live television. 

The story would have been stronger if the average Joe had invested
money that he had earned and saved, rather than life insurance proceeds
 perhaps an accumulated pension from working at a company for a long
time and then being laid off due to economic circumstances. 

The taste of death moment seems contrived. 

Gates lacks a character arc. He recommended an investment that turned
sour in part because an executive at the company proved to be
disreputable and in part because nobody seems to know what the company
actually does, other than deliver impressive profits. It turns out that
the company doesn't know what they do either, as their much- touted
trading algorithm was actually developed by a Korean programmer. In the
final scene, Gates asks Fenn what they will do for the next program and
neither one knows. His question may have been intended as humorous, as
in how to top the drama of that day's events, but also reveals that he
hasn't learned anything. He made a poor choice that cost the investors
who relied upon his advice a lot of money. Tomorrow, he needs to make
another recommendation, but he hasn't learned anything to guide him.
Despite various implications that the system is rigged against the
little guy, everything Gates has learned only applies to this one
company. He was fooled and the public was defrauded. But nothing has
happened to provide the public with better protection or to enable
Gates to make better choices.
<|_=00=_|>
If not a stylist in the slightest, Jodie Foster is a very smart lady
and a capable director with a keen flair for tone. Both funny and
utterly pessimistic, Money Monster brings welcome memories of
(admittedly better) movies like Network, and there are much worse
associations than this one. Presenting the alliance of computer trading
and cable television as a weapon of mass destruction, of value as well
as lives, Mrs Foster packs up a convincing case, if not escaping all
traps of such a complex subject having to be laid out and resolved in
138 minutes, which by the way breeze by as if they were 98, one of the
best possible compliments for a movie in our age of bloated freak
shows.

The Ibis corporation took a plunge of 800 M$ after a "glitch" affected
its high-speed trading, this mere weeks after Lee Gates, star anchor of
the Money Monster cable program, has deemed its share safer than any
life insurance policy. Kyle Budwell (Jack O'Connell), one of the 99%,
having lost everything, breaks in the TV studio, takes Gates hostage,
put an explosive vest on him and asks for answers. They prove difficult
to get, as Ibis' CEO has vanished. Gates can only rely on himself, and
on Patty Fenn, the studio director (Julia Roberts).

It is not useless to underline that the ibis is the animal form of the
Egyptian God of Knowledge, due to its ability to make the difference
between drinkable and corrupt water, a form of wisdom which all
concerned are deprived of, intoxicated as they are with the promise of
money acquired faster than the speed of light, thanks to inscrutable
algorithms in a world shrunk to a few stock exchange places. Greed,
once heralded as good, is still the same, though, and for lack of a
better word, greed is a bulimic monster that cannot be satiated.

There is a measure of squeamishness in having close friends Clooney and
Roberts sharing top billing. Both are consummate professionals, but it
is hard not to think once or twice during Money Monster that they are
not stretching their acting chops to a dangerous extent in it. Clooney
is his usual jerk with a heart of gold and easy empathy to his fellow
humans, whatever disturbed they are, and Roberts is her trademark
strong woman whose inner vulnerability allow her to act noble instead
of curt. They make the show, however, since the other actors are
something of a white noise, except Emily Meade as Molly, the hostage
taker's girlfriend, who is brought on the air to mollify him and has
one excellent, enraged scene.

Money Monster wears its ideas on its sleeve, but they are treated
without naivety. On one hand Mrs Foster is obviously sympathetic to the
"Occupy Wall Street" movement and clearly thinks that unregulated
finance is the enemy. If something catastrophic occurs, blame it on
computer programming, on Europe, on the ways of the world. Never blame
yourself for your mistakes regarding others as long as you make a load
out of them. Last time one checked, this was the 21st century
definition of capitalism, a battle of financial kaijus eradicating
industrial sectors or countries alike. On the other hand, her movie is
pessimistic as hell regarding the ability of the common man to make any
change to this current state of affairs. There are a couple of chilling
moments towards the end of the movie, one an enthusiastic flash mob
marching in support of Kyle Budwell, only to vanish like a flock of
sheep as a gun is fired, the other the immediate loss of interest for
whatever the same had to say when his fate is sealed. Case closed,
let's have a commercial break. "What kind of program will we have
tomorrow?" ask Lee Gates to Penny, whom Drama Day has obviously brought
together (again).

Ending up in memes and tweets like most things do whenever they start
nowadays, Money Monster sums up in a rather tight bundle a sizable
portion of what is going wrong in our wretched century, bringing short
attention span disorder in the realm of terminal illness. We don't have
enough memory to process everything happening at the speed it is
happening. Our short bursts of indignation are followed by long bouts
of complacency. If money has always been the root of evil, it is now a
very modern and capable monster indeed.
