
A friend invited me to a Sundance USA event in San Francisco, where
they take 10 films from the festival and show them in different cities
around the US. I had no idea what the movie was even about, and
obviously no expectations.

I was completely blown away. 'In a World' was one of the funniest,
cleverly-written and flawlessly edited movies I've seen this year
(2012-present). From Demetri Martin, Rob Cordry and Lake Bell herself,
the acting was fantastic. I had seen Lake Bell in 'How to Make it in
America' and thought she was great, but I had no idea how unbelievably
talented she is (i.e. playing an accent- obsessed speech coach/aspiring
voice-over actress who does probably 10+ flawless accents throughout
the movie...a movie she wrote and directed as well. No big deal).

I'm not sure if this movie is getting distributed to a wider audience,
but I'm grateful my friend convinced me to go. If you have a chance to
catch this, it's a must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
In a World . . . was written, produced, and directed by Lake Bell. Can
you guess who stars in the movie?

This modest comedy takes place in the mini-world of people who do voice
overs. Apparently this world exists. And, like all such worlds, it has
stars, former stars, people who want to be stars and will make it, and
people who want to be stars and won't make it.

This world also has alliances, feuds, betrayals, burning hates and
burning loves. It's the same as any other profession, except that it's
invisible to the rest of us. (When was the last time you knew the name
of someone doing a voice-over?) 

Bell is a good director and a good actor. (And, yes, her voice is
fabulous.) She keeps her excellent ensemble cast moving along. The
story line starts with boy meets girl, so you know how it will end, but
there are enough unexpected twists and turns to hold your interest. It
will work well on the small screen. My advice--seek it out and see it.
Just don't expect a movie that's so powerful that it will change your
life forever.
<|_=00=_|>
After watching an infinity of trailers for violent, over-the-top,
sci-fi or thriller or political espionage movies coming down the pike,
my question is Why aren't there more charming and happy movies? They
sell well too.

So what a delight to see In A World.

It is a quirky and sophisticated comedy. Perhaps it is a chick-flick,
but not overwhelmingly so.Yes, some of the criticisms herein are true,
but not damaging enough to detract from a thoroughly enjoyable cinema
experience. The acting is terrific, the plot and subplots are simple,
the humor is amusing and even at a couple of points a true belly laugh,
and altogether, the movie is a winner. Kudos to Lake Bell and team.
<|_=00=_|>
Lake Bell wrote, directed and starred in this comedy of a voice coach
who wants to make it as a voice-over star, a boy's club dominated by
her famous father, the reigning king of movie trailer voice-overs. The
small group are competing for the voice-over role for an epic new
blockbuster series that's bringing back Don LaFontaine's famous "In a
World..." putting the father and daughter at conflict.

Currently making its rounds of the festivals, where it picked up the
Waldo Salt Screen writing award at Sundance USA and was nominated for
the Grand Jury Prize. It's a great script that zips along, full of
believable characters, handles the central conflict deftly and is never
annoyingly quirky, just consistently funny.

Featuring an uncredited cameo by Cameron Diaz and a whole host of
comedic talent from the LA circuit including Demetri Martin, Ken
Marino, Rob Corddry, Geena Davis, Nick Offerman and Eva Longoria. Lake
Bell confirmed at the Sundance London director's Q&A she'd written the
script with all her friends in mind but she is the stand-out, anchoring
the film and flawlessly delivering around different accents in her
performance. 

A feminist film that delivers its message without forcing itself upon
you and puts the comedy foremost, it's great fun, well worth tracking
down at release and shows Lake Bell to be a great talent to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
As someone who watch at least half a dozen movie trailers a week, the
premise definitely appeals to me. In fact, earlier today I saw a
trailer of Inescapable that pretty much had this cheesy VO narration
that tells you the plot of the story. The protagonist of this movie,
Carol (Lake Bell), lives under the shadow of her voice-over star dad
Sam Solomon (Fred Melamed). After being kicked out of her dad's house
to accommodate for his new young wife  which Carol refers to as his
groupie  she has to pack her bags and live with her sister.

As a vocal coach, Carol often has to coach certain celebrities when
they have to adopt a certainly adopt a certain accent, but voicing a
trailer is still pretty much an elite boys club. An opportunity
suddenly presents itself when a big studio is looking for a voice over
for a quadrilogy blockbuster sci-fi franchise and with the help of her
friend Louis (Demetri Martin), she just might have a chance to break
into the glass ceiling of that industry. The whole VO competition
involving her dad and another VO star Gustav, an eccentric douche bag
who takes a shine on Carol, provide most of the laughs. Ken Marino is a
hoot as Gustav, a familiar face though I can't quite put my finger on
what movies I've seen him in. There's also a comical side plot about
Carol's sister marital infidelity involving a seductive hunk in the
form of Irish hunk Jason O'Mara. Seriously who could resist him with
his natural Irish brogue!

This is the first time I've seen Lake Bell, though I've heard of her
before this movie. She not only star in this but also wrote and
directed her debut film, and I must say I'm impressed! She's got
excellent comic timing and a knack for accents, and the story is
surprisingly engaging and downright hilarious. The tall and svelte Bell
could make a living as a model but she really made herself to look very
plain here as a perpetually-disheveled tomboy who's 'signature look' is
a denim overall. But she's instantly likable and she surround herself
with equally affable and amusing characters.

It was fun to see cameos from Geena Davis, Eva Longoria and Cameron
Diaz as well, the scene of Longoria struggling to say just one simple
line with a British accent had me in stitches! This movie premiered in
Sundance a few months ago and I hope it'll get some decent distribution
in the coming months.

 For more reviews, visit FlixChatter.net
<|_=00=_|>
IN A WORLD... doesn't exactly have a totally engaging plot (some of its
B-Plots are even weaker) but the film has such character and cute and
hilarious humour naturally within the interactions that it's a joy to
watch.

The cast across the board is great from the leads to a few smaller
parts adding even more humour from the likes of Nick Offerman and Ig
Notaro.

Gender inequality takes the for front of this film, with excellent
family moments and hilarious cynicism from the lead. Of course it also
has a sweet romantic story happening throughout too. It's a fun clever
movie and a good watch.

Lake Bell delivers as the screenwriter/director/star and looking
forward to what she does next.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't know anything about the movie other than the synopsis, and so
I thought it was a documentary. Nope! 

That said, this was one of the most laid-back movies I've seen (and
liked) in a while. It feels so much like a typical "independent" movie
from the late 90's/early 2000's, that it was very refreshing. The
dialogue felt very authentic (a few scenes felt improvised, even), and
the main character is awesome. I hope this movie becomes more popular
just to showcase this character to a wider audience. She's the female
lead character we're not shown too often in Hollywood- she's just
kinda...normal. 

Demitri Martin is also awesome, and I wish he had more screen time
(though his character was wisely kept in small doses). The supporting
roles, as well as the B-plot characters, are mostly great, though there
are a couple of two-dimensional characters who feel written in for
convenience, or cheap gags. 

The movie is not without flaws, either. At times the characters'
dialogue overlaps each other and comes out a bit too quick. Especially
in the beginning, I had trouble figuring out what was going on because
I couldn't pick out what the people were saying. But then again, that
did add to the authenticity of the film overall. 

Also, one person's "authentic" is another person's "boring" or
"unmotivated." Like real life, stuff just kinda happens and people just
kinda do things. It felt very much like just suddenly watching
somebody's weekend. I can see how that might irritate some people,
who'd want a more audience-friendly flow and script. 

I only mention it because it threw me off at first- since I expected a
documentary, I had no idea what the movie was trying to be for the
first 10 minutes or so. But it did all come together in the end, and I
liked it.
<|_=00=_|>
As you may know already, the gist is that Don LaFontaine was the guy
who popularized the phrase "in a world" as the way to begin nearly
every movie trailer for decades. He's a real guy who really did die in
2008. So the film is a fictional account of Carolthe daughter of a
voice-over artist gifted similarly to LaFontainewho wants to break
into the world of voice-overs, particularly for film trailers, and
become the next LaFontaine.

Kudos to Bell for humorously broaching the subject of male-dominance in
the voice-over field. But my praise ends there. I found that every
single character was written as a shrill fast-talker no matter their
age, gender, or background. It was insufferable, and the cheap writing
continued: pivotal plot points hinged on unrealistically stupid
coincidences. For instance, Carol can't get a date with the guy who has
a crush on her ("Mary Sue" much?) because someone interrupts her cell
phone call and he's confused about who she's talking to. Just dumb,
lazy writing. I left when her sister's boyfriend finds the
(telegraphed) evidence he didn't want to know.

(Note: this review appears on my own blog.)
<|_=00=_|>
You have to see In a World  if for no other reason, it's the perfect
story to explain to someone the glass ceiling faced by most women. In a
World is genius. It's brilliant, amazingly well written, and filled
with all kinds of nuances that speak to our lives and what is right and
wrong with them. Family issues. Sibling connections. Loving someone out
of your league. Commitment and its challenges. Self confidence. Need I
go on? Rarely will you go to a movie that offers so many mirrors of
yourself to look into. Thank you, Lake Bell.

So, who is Lake Bell and where did she come from? This movie is in the
Juno category, and even if it's a one-shot wonder, I want to know this
person who is behind it.

It took me a good ten minutes to figure out where I'd seen Lake Bell
before. Then it hit me. She's the dragon tattoo lady married to Meryl's
ex in It's Complicated. I was stunned. It's so rare to see someone on
the screen who can be more than one persona. When I realized she'd
written it, directed it, and starred in it, I was blown away. Blown
away, I tell you. I have very little desire to meet Hollywood players,
but I would have lunch with Lake. Dinner. Breakfast. Tell me where and
when, and I'll be there. I want to pick her brain. What made her think
of it? What was her father like? Has she done voice-overs? Oh my, maybe
we should spend a weekend at Canyon Ranch? One meal isn't enough time.

The cast is obscure and perfect. The sisters look like sisters. Rob
Corddry, who plays Lake's sister's husband, will tear your heart out.
He makes the case over and over again for marrying the nice guy, not
the guy who sends your heart into cardiac arrest. Ken Marino, who plays
Gustav and has the difficult task of walking close to the line of
ridiculous, nails it. There is one weak link, however. Fred Melamed,
who plays Lake's father, is off. I'm not sure exactly why, or whether
he was playing it the way she directed, but he's not quite believable.

Here is what I love, love, love about In a World: It proves, beyond a
shadow of a doubt, that you can make great movies without a star
attraction. It proves that there can be many Hollywood writers. It
proves that we can rework this industry, and women can have a voice and
a place in film. It shows the sheer depth of resources that exist for
making films that are unique, compelling, and funny.
<|_=00=_|>
Nice story, an unexpected view on gender bias. There's a lot going on,
but it's all connected to Carol's (Bell) struggle to carve out a career
for herself. Many strong performances in small roles, including
Michaela Watkins and Rob Corddry as Carol's sister and brother-in-law
who have their own pressures. Bell shows a strong director's hand
working with a large ensemble cast, and her writing skills made the
shifting relationships between characters work. 

Generally a strong directorial debut for Bell, but she also showed her
inexperience on the technical side of directing, as there were scenes
throughout the movie that were poorly lit (yes, it does matter: shadows
are distracting to the audience).

Overall: +1
