
Sports films typically have a love/hate relationship with viewers -
most never finding that honest middle ground that satisfies everyone's
wants and desires. On one hand, you have the preposterous comedies that
cap seriousness, sacrificing dramatic acting in exchange for a series
of cheap laughs and feel-good moments, like Rookie of the Year, The
Waterboy, and Caddyshack. Then, there's the beloved and devote dramas
that live on in film infamy, which includes but is not limited to
Rocky, The Natural, and Raging Bull. Finally, you have Kevin Costner's
greatest hits, like Bull Durham, Field of Dreams, and For the Love of
the Game. And, even though Kevin Costner has left the baseball diamond
and thrown his last fastball, he clearly has found a memorable position
as the GM of an NFL franchise in Draft Day.

The only real complaint about this film is that it doesn't incorporate
actual NFL players - at least not in the manner that Moneyball involved
them. Players like Peyton Manning and Tom Brady are still stars in the
Draft Day universe, however, the Cleveland Browns are a team compiled
of fictional players - which probably isn't the worst thing since the
Browns severely lack star-power now that the former face of their
franchise, Trent Richardson, is no longer on the team. However, this is
a miniscule problem in the long run, and the plot progression of the
fictional players is allotted the proper time to plant their seeds of
worth.

Overall, Draft Day takes full advantage of telling an engaging
behind-the-scenes tale using the world's most popular league as a
vehicle. From the film's trailers, the film might appear to be one
giant commercial for the NFL, but thankfully it turns out to be a
well-scripted, charming experience. Draft Day is a fun-loving popcorn
flick through and through, but it's also exactly the kind of perfectly
balanced story that draws people to the movies, incorporating just
enough drama, subtly placing humor in stressful situations, and
fulfilling its promise to reveal a compelling mystery that will keep
everyone on their toes. For anyone that loves football or is interested
in the power-play politics that that place behind the proverbial
curtain, you'll have an absolute amazing time watching this feature.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed Draft Day. Yes I am female and yes I love sports
especially football but this is a movie anyone can enjoy. It made me
think of the movie Moneyball starring Brad Pitt. A very interesting
look at the madness, pressure and inner turmoil that one man has to
endure in performing his duty of putting a team together. Kevin Costner
gives an outstanding performance as Sonny, Jennifer Garner gives a top
performance as well. This movie keeps you engaged the whole time, not
for a moment did I feel it dragged or got boring. Some of the backdrop
scenes of various cities and stadiums just takes your breath away, very
much suited for the big screen, a must see in the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
"No one can stop a ticking clock, the great ones always find a way to
slow it down." Sonny Weaver Jr. (Costner) is the GM of the Cleveland
Browns and is getting ready for today's NFL draft. He isn't in good
graces with the Brown's fans but that all changes when he makes a trade
for the #1 pick. With pressure from the owner, his new head coach and
his mother, Sonny isn't sure if what he wants is the same as what
everyone else wants. His choices not only affect his job but everyone
around him as well. I am a sucker for sports movies and I really like
Kevin Costner so I was really looking forward to seeing this. Almost
right away I was sucked in and enjoyed myself the entire time. This is
very much like Moneyball so if you liked that movie you will like this
as well. Costner is a perfect choice and there is just something about
him and sports movies that is perfect. The movie is about the decisions
people make when adding a player to their team, it may not seem like it
but its exciting and keeps you guessing and wondering the entire time.
You really root for Costner the entire time and want him to succeed.
Again, it may be because I am a huge sports fan but I loved this movie
and I highly recommend this. Overall, if you liked Moneyball you will
love this one. I give this an A.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Costner is no stranger to sports themed movies. The Tin Cup, Bull
Durham, For the Love of the Game star has stared in five separate
sports films and now rounds that number to an even six with the
football themed Draft Day directed by Ghostbuster's helmer Ivan
Reitman. 

Taking on a role more his age (Costner is a football yard short of 60),
Costner plays Sonny Weaver Jr., the General Manager of the Cleveland
Browns in the NFL. The action picks on NFL Draft Day, the day in which
200+ young budding stars get drafted by big league teams in a huge
televised event taking place in New York City. 

Sonny's Cleveland team was a lowly 6-10 the season before  largely due
to the injury to their star quarterback. The Browns are given the 7th
round draft pick on draft day, but pressures from Brown's team owner
(Frank Langella) and an aggressive offer from the Seattle Seahawks to
swap the number 1 pick for future options leave Sonny with only hours
to think of both his legacy and what is best for the city's revered
team. 

The film all takes place within the 24 hours on draft day and a running
clock that appears a handful of times during the film reminds us that
the time is ticking and decisions need to be made. Impeding such
forward thinking are the films distractions which come in the form of
two female characters with ties to Sonny. Jennifer Garner plays Ali,
the love interest of Sonny and the lawyer and number cruncher who is
responsible for keeping the Browns under the NFL salary cap. With the
film only a few minutes aged, we learn that Ali is pregnant with
Sonny's baby  a subplot that was hardly necessary to keep things
moving. Also complicating things is Sonny's mother played by Ellen
Burstyn. Sonny's father was a former Cleveland Brown's coach (fired by
Sonny Jr. the year previous) and has recently passed away. Sonny's
mother for reasons that were hard to understand considering she lived a
life with football at the core of the family, decides that draft day is
the day in which she wants Sonny to spend some time completing his
father's last wishes as identified in his will. 

Both female stories go nowhere and could easily have ended up on the
cutting room floor. Instead, in a weak attempt to connect with a female
audience, the two characters are awarded ample screen time to emote and
distract Sonny on what is arguably the most difficult and focused day
of his career. 

When Sonny is not tripping over the estrogen pitfalls, he is struggling
with his coach (Dennis Leary) and working the phones discussing trade
possibilities with Jacksonville, Buffalo and Kansas City in an attempt
to save the city the embarrassment of selling the golden goose for a
few magic beans. 

It is when Sonny is working his draft magic that the movie is at its
best. His calls to and from potential and existing players had an
authentic feel and the chaos of draft day is captured with tense
complexity and legacy importance. 

Draft Day wants to be football's answer to baseball's Moneyball. But
the Aaron Sorkin written baseball film starring Brad Pitt had
rocket-fire dialogue that catapulted the film to an Academy Award
nomination for Best Screenplay. Draft Day instead is fluff, but it's
good fluff. Costner consistently makes every film to which he is
involved better than it should be and Reitman is smart to give
appropriate cameos (Roger Goodall, Bernie Kozar, Jim Brown), he keeps
the spotlight on his star heaving the film on Costner's shoulders in an
attempt to score a box office touchdown. 

Draft Day was a fun distraction. Browns fans will likely enjoy a
fantasy film of their team making right decisions (the Browns have not
made the NFL playoffs since 2002), and football fans should find valued
entertainment in the behind the scenes peak into the day of a General
Manager. But film fans hoping for a Moneyball or something smarter than
Draft Day's trailers have revealed should look elsewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
Give Kevin Costner a good human-interest role and he can bring his
unique star power making it both entertaining and compelling. As an
adult I've grown less enamored with pro football and in fairness I'm
from Alabama where college football is all it can be and pro isn't a
factor. That said, it's the corporate money machine mentality that, in
my humble opinion, soils the things I fondly remember of the ancient
NFC/AFC of the sixties (where loyalty trumped money often for an entire
career). 

Well, this movie makes that big-business drama work as something much
more human. Where the general managers struggle like desperate children
for some kind of immediate better future. When even in the last hours
those gilded picks are subject to human-error and wild scrambling per
last minute decisions and deals. The kind of deals that come not just
from statistics, but deeper beliefs. I'd say Draft Day brings this kind
of tense drama to the screen with aplomb Is it a true representation?
I'd say it doesn't matter because this is a movie and it's a good one.
<|_=00=_|>
With the NFL Draft season officially in full swing, if you haven't
already, now's a great time to see "Draft Day" the movie! Even if it
does stand to reason, foretelling whether or not it would be received
more positively by non-football enthusiasts and resonate less with true
football fans (as some critics have deduced), is nonetheless a rush to
judgment.

In any case, the box office draw doesn't differentiate one over the
other. The entertaining sports vehicle about the NFL draft not actual
gridiron game play goes against formula.

We've seen football films that keep to standard rough and tumble field
action, which fit the bill. However, the focus here in itself, is a
good departure as a movie on the managerial side of the sport of
interest for either group.

Being a non-fanatical Monday morning quarterback, I enjoyed watching a
view from behind-the-scenes for a change of pace, and getting a crash
course in the extraneous details of what occurs in a crucial 24-hour
period-similar to TV series "24"-leading up to the draft day ceremony.

As for the question of is it realism or Hollywood hype? Co-star and
former professional football player now actor Terry Crews, who said he
was an 11-round draft pick in 1991, in a pre-release call-in interview
to the Steve Harvey Morning Show, stated that "Draft Day" was the first
movie endorsed by the NFL.

So would the League sign-off on a film that represents a
'day-in-the-life of' a general manager played by sports cinema veteran
Kevin Costner, managing the real-life Cleveland Browns, if it didn't
measure up? Most likely not.

Sure, football fans will probably have a better understanding than will
others of the evolving events being dramatized on the big screen, but I
believe that's meant to give the rest of the audience a microcosmic
picture of the high-pressured inner-workings and how it all comes
together.

It presents an intimate look at the level of intensity that comes when
the selection process rises to fever pitch (forgive the baseball
reference) and how the lives of the hopefuls looking to get picked, as
well as their families, hinges on the manager's final decision.

The film works well at drawing you into the
thought-provoking/judgment-making job of Costner's character Sonny
Weaver, while also keeping you glued to the countdown timer. The
spliced boiler room frames meld cohesively to sustain moviegoers'
heightened curiosity for the anticipated outcome.

Jennifer Garner is low-key as Costner's girlfriend, though a far cry
from her starring lead role in TV's "Alias." Hers, along with Ellen
Burstyn's portrayal, brings necessary added value to balance out the
storyline.

As the father of a potential student draftee, Crews delivers a
meaningful, non-comedic performance. The elements put in play, overall,
make for a finely crafted sports entertainment feature everyone can
enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood's Mr. Baseball, aka Kevin Costner, walks off the diamond and
onto the gridiron (or, more accurately, into pro football's corporate
offices) in "Draft Day," Ivan Reitman's entertaining tribute to the
wheeling-and-dealing that goes on behind the scenes at the NFL draft.

Costner plays the fictional Sonny Wheeler, Jr., son of the equally
fictitious Sonny Wheeler, Sr., who has recently died and in whose
shadow Sonny perpetually toils. You see, Wheeler, Sr. was a legend at
the Cleveland Browns franchise, and, in his two years as general
manager for the team, his son seems to be having a little trouble
living up to the old man's reputation. To further complicate Sonny's
life, his "down low" girlfriend, Ali (Jennifer Garner), who works as
the lawyer responsible for making sure the team doesn't bust through
the salary cap, has just announced that she is pregnant with the
commitment-phobic Sonny's child. Amid all this personal turmoil, Sonny
launches into full negotiator mode, making deals and forming alliances
with other general managers in the league while working to assuage the
concerns of the team's owner (Frank Langella), its coach (Dennis
Leary), an assortment of high strung and disgruntled players (Tom
Welling, Chadwick Boseman, Arian Foster) and even his own mother (Ellen
Burstyn) who has views of her own that need to be taken into
consideration before he can arrive at his final decision.

Although it probably helps to have some familiarity with how the draft
pick works in order to fully appreciate some of the finer points of the
narrative, writers Rajiv Joseph and Scott Rothman do a good job
clarifying the big picture even for the less sports-oriented members of
the audience. The movie proceeds at a breakneck pace as the clock ticks
down to the moment of truth for Sonny. Will he accept the Seattle
Seahawks' offer of the #1 draft pick, Bo Callahan (Josh Pence), in
exchange for the Browns' #1 first-round draft picks for the next three
years, or will he reject the offer in favor of some less stellar but
still promising players? "Draft Day" is at its best when it's exploring
the various and often contradictory interests - of players, coaches and
owners, not to mention the millions at stake in salaries and corporate
sponsorships - that those in Sonny's position must consider before
rendering their final verdicts. Talk about pressure! The filmmakers
establish a nice balance between the sports aspects of the tale and the
personal moments between Sonny and Ali and Sonny and his mom, never
allowing the latter to detract from the former. As a result, we care
about the characters without losing our focus on the real reason we've
come to this movie.

Reitman has come up with an interesting split-screen technique that
helps to weave together a story that takes place over a wide range of
geographical locales simultaneously. What might have been a mere
gimmick in less capable hands becomes an indispensable narrative device
here.

A few weeks back, while writing about "3 Days to Kill," I lamented that
Costner desperately needed to find some quality material worthy of his
talents to work with, and he seems to have found just that in "Draft
Day." Costner has a core of quiet stillness that lends a genuine
gravitas to his performances. Because he can appear both confident and
insecure in the same moment, he makes us want to root for the character
he's playing. He's also blessed with a super supporting cast that
includes, in addition to all the aforementioned, Terry Crews, Rosanna
Arquette, Sam Elliot, and Sean Combs.

"Draft Day" proves that not all the competitiveness and excitement of
professional football takes place on the field.
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched this with my movie theatre-working friend. We both enjoyed
this story of a general manager of the Cleveland Browns who is played
by Kevin Costner in trying to pick the right trades on the day of the
NFL draft picks while also dealing with a pregnant associate (Jennifer
Garner) he's in a relationship with, a coach who doesn't always agree
with his choices (Dennis Leary), and a late father who was the previous
coach that he had to fire beforehand due to age. I'll stop there and
say I found much that was pretty funny and occasionally touching stuff
about some of the players being considered. And director Ivan Reitman
was pretty creative with some of the wipes involved in many scene
transitions. So on that note, Draft Day is worth a look.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I am a huge NFL fan.I love the business aspect and the many
different components of the NFL game, such as free agency, the draft,
etc. So I knew I had to see this movie.

The movie primarily focuses on the Cleveland Browns and GM Sonny Weaver
Jr (played by Kevin Costner), but the movie began in the Seattle
Seahawks headquarters, where the GM is hoping to cash in on the #1 pick
by suckering some team into giving them a king's ransom for it. He
calls up Sonny and gauges his interest in the pick. Initially Sonny
isn't interested in trading for it, but after being told by the higher
ups of the Browns that they needed to make a splash, Sonny eventually
deals the #7 pick in the 2014 draft, as well as their 2015 and 2016 1st
round picks to Seattle for the #1 pick, where they are assumed to be
taking the hotshot, can't miss prospect, QB Bo Callahan of Wisconsin.

There's a few other draft prospects, however, who make it known they
want to be a part of the Cleveland Browns: LB Vontae Mack of Ohio
State, and RB Ray Jennings (played by current Houston Texans RB Arian
Foster) of Florida State, who is the son of a Cleveland Browns legend.
Amid these issues, along with hearing his salary cap manager Ali is
pregnant with his child, and the passing of his father just days after
he fired him (previously the Browns coach), Sonny has a lot on his
plate on this draft day.

At first, Sonny decides to roll with Callahan, which makes Browns fans
rejoice, and the current Browns QB on the roster quite angry, so much
so that he trashes Sonny's office and demands to be traded. He felt
betrayed by Sonny, and pleads with Sonny that he is the guy to lead the
franchise to glory, coming back better than ever after a knee injury in
the previous season. The move also upsets Mack, who tweets out that
it's a bad decision to pick Callahan. Sonny also receives disagreement
regarding the overall decision from the new coach, who would rather
make a new deal with the Buffalo Bills to acquire a few new players and
more draft picks for the future.

After doing some background checking and scouting and such, Sonny finds
some character issues with Bo Callahan and changes the pick in the
final seconds to Vontae Mack. The collective NFL nation is stunned.
Mack is watching the draft at his home with his family and is left
speechless after hearing he was the pick. It also causes the current
Browns QB to rejoice in knowing he's the guy.

Sonny and the Browns weren't done yet though. After seeing the teams in
picks 2-5 pass on Bo Callahan, the GM of the Jacksonville Jaguars, who
own pick #6, calls up Sonny and asks why teams are passing up on
Callahan. Sonny dances around the question, but answers that he simply
believes Callahan will be a bust and eventually convinces the Jaguars
GM to deal the #6 pick to the Browns for 2nd round picks in 2014, 2015,
and 2016. Sonny then takes this opportunity to call up the GM of the
Seahawks and threaten to take Callahan away from the Seahawks. After
some back and forth negotiations, Sonny gets back all the picks he
originally traded to Seattle, as well as a punt returner, for pick #6.
Seattle gets its man in Callahan, and the Browns pick Ray Jennings with
pick #7. Sonny goes from goat to hero in a matter of minutes, and
Browns football appears to be headed in a great direction for the
future.

There's plenty more going on in the movie. It has its fair share of
football and non-football related drama, enough to keep you interested
and wanting to see what happens next.

My only complaints about the movie ... well, as an avid NFL fan, most
of the trades that occurred in this movie would definitely not happen
in today's NFL. The original trade (Cleveland acquires #1 pick, Seattle
acquires three 1st rounders) is not too far-fetched, but the other
moves are just completely unrealistic. The Jaguars traded away a top 10
1st round pick for three 2nd round picks. That would never happen, and
the Jaguars would have been mocked forever for taking a trade like that
in today's NFL. Then Seattle trading back those three 1st rounders and
an apparently very good punt returner just to move up one spot? That is
also foolish, even for a "can't miss" prospect. Of course, that's just
nit-picky from someone who is a die-hard NFL fan and knows better.

The other complaint is that the actions of Mack/Jennings as well as the
current Browns QB and coach were unrealistic behaviors at certain
moments. Mack and Jennings calling Sonny and telling them to draft
them? Complaining about potentially not being the guy? That would never
ever ever happen. If a prospect did that, he'd probably go completely
undrafted, or at least been red-flagged by just about every NFL GM out
there. When the current Browns QB got wind of the first trade, he
trashed Sonny's office and demanded a trade. Again, that's a move that
would get you suspended or "blacklisted" by so many teams. Then the
coach having the nerve to mock the GM and repetitively call the GM's
moves "boneheaded"? You'd get fired on spot in today's NFL for comments
like that.

Again, just some unrealistic things added to the movie to create drama
and story lines, which is understandable, and didn't ruin the film for
me at all, but true NFL fans will understand that sort of stuff would
never happen.

To any football fans, particularly NFL fans, I recommend you see it. I
don't know how much it would appeal to those who don't like football,
though.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all don't confuse this for a "Sports" movie.

It revolves around the NFL Draft, an annual event where the NFL
managers are selecting players to join their teams.

It is a USA football thing, so if you are living in another continent,
it is rather difficult to understand the rules and even more the point
of this whole charade.

About the rules is something of a Poker game. At least as it looks in
this picture. The manager of team A is on the phone with the manager of
team B and they talk things like "I am giving you 2 of my first picks
of the second round to give me your first pick for the next 2 years..."
and so on.

Again, this is NOT about who wins a game or a trophy. This is merely
about picking players whom you think they might be useful to your team.
In the actual games they may proved to be bad choices, or injured or
whatever, and despite being happy about your choices in the NFL draft,
eventually to lose games and the season.

Now as movie "Draft Day" is carefully designed.

The direction and editing are trying to be "edgy" with unique split
screen effects during the numerous phone-calls between the team
managers. You can see for example Kevin Costner (who plays the lead
role as an experienced yet unconventional manager) in a split screen
walking into the other side of the frame where the manager of the other
team is.

The music has a certain triumphant feeling without being to much in
your face and the whole production is carefully designed.

I point that out because in this movie you have constantly the feeling
that you are seeing great things taking place. Like every little
decision is something that could change the world. But in reality all
these "decisions" are something of a micromanagement. In the end and if
you actually pay attention, what is happening and what the characters
are talking about is totally uninteresting...

...and for the rest of the world, outside the US, confusing and
pointless.
