
The Quiet Ones is a new British horror movie from the makers of The
Woman in Black. Produced by the classic crafters of horror, Hammer
Productions, the film follows an Oxford professor (Jared Harris), his
tutees and a student cameraman (Sam Claflin) as they attempt to both
prove and document the theory that supernatural powers are simply a
manifestation of psychological trauma. They begin studying a young girl
who believes she is possessed by an evil entity, and a strange
relationship begins to develop between her and cameraman Brian as the
professor's attempts to create a poltergeist take their toll.

In an era where endless Paranormal Activity sequels, squeezing every
buck out of the found-footage genre and reliance purely on cattle-prod
jump scares, it's refreshing to see a horror film that seems to have
been made by people who understand how suspense works. In the same way
that Woman in Black tricked you into thinking that it's going to be a
run-of-the-mill horror flick set in a creaky old house but did
something interesting, The Quiet Ones uses the 'house in the middle of
nowhere' setting in a way that doesn't just turn the lights off and
throw furniture around when things go wrong.

While rare (but noticeable), there are still uses of very loud noises
out of absolutely nowhere to accentuate the scares, but asides from
that, they are achieved through realistic and unobtrusive special
effects, a sparing but effective use of a rumbling, mechanical musical
score (there is something to be said for music that can make a scene of
occult research feel intense) and an unflinching refusal by the camera
to shy away from the horror. The camera-work is an interesting mix of
live-action and old celluloid stock filmed from the perspective of the
cameraman as he observes the increasing number of bizarre and
terrifying events unfolding before the investigators.

As far as performances go, Jared Harris is well cast as the physics
professor slowly declining into madness in a knowing manner very
reminiscent of classic Hammer-horror and Sam Claflin builds a lot on
his brief performance in Catching Fire, creating a very believable
character struggling with his own beliefs as the absolute horror of the
experiment becomes increasingly harder to deal with. Olivia Cooke is
also very good as Jane, the tortured subject of the experiment, taking
a very over-used character (the silent, unblinking possessed girl) and
doing something interesting with it, alternating between an almost
comatose recluse and a young woman dealing with adolescence and
emerging emotions.

The running time of just less than 100 minutes means that some of the
character development feels a little rushed, but it means that the film
has adequate time to set up scares, deliver on the suspense, and create
an intriguing story without feeling repetitive. Taking unexpected
turns, featuring good performances and inciting real fear in the
audience, The Quiet Ones is a very welcome breath of fresh air in
mainstream horror movies, proving once again that constant scenes of
exorcisms and annoying families with camcorders have become tired old
tropes and that the best thing to do is wipe that all away and focus on
believable characters and more interesting methods to create a
genuinely tense atmosphere.
<|_=00=_|>
So, The Quiet Ones. I gave this film an 8 out of 10. I would however
give it a rating of 7.8 if I could. 

The Positives: The Quiet Ones is very successful in building up
tension. It builds it up and then a jump scene comes at you and throws
you out of your seat!

It is also a great concept. As the story progresses you begin to see
more to the story than what we first thought.

Also TQO manages to go into different stories based on real legends
(e.g. The theories they come up with and the covens they slightly touch
upon.)

It is also quite creepy and intense with many scenes that make you say
to yourself: WTF?!

The Negatives: TQO does not go deep enough into the story. They could
have made the run time longer resulting in the movie being a lot more
frightening. At the end of the movie, clearly not destined for a sequel
we are left with many un-answered questions.

It is easily forgettable! After watching the film I simply left the
screening. I did not take a minute to think about what I watched,
literally the second I left the cinema I forgot about it.

The ending is also very disappointing. After all the build up I bet you
were expecting a dramatic, jaw dropping climax?.... Well this movie
does not offer that. Up until the end all the other negatives could
have easily been forgiven. All it would have needed was a better
ending.

And finally I'm going to tell you the problem with this film that
occurs all of the time. 'Based on a true story'. If you are a director
reading this STOP ADDING THOSE 5 WORDS! It makes the film feel scarier
obviously but it also makes the director have to keep it realistic and
that is usually a big downfall!

So 7.8 is what I give this film. It is creepy, jumpy and an interesting
mix of found footage genre cinematography and regular cinematography.
However; TQO simply isn't very believable and it is not good enough to
get out of the 7 rating.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Quiet Ones" focuses on a three students at the University of
Oxford who join a research group led by Dr. Joseph Coupland (Jared
Harris). The group is working to document parapsychological phenomenon
in a young woman whom they believe has created and manifests a presence
which she calls Evie. Isolated in the back country outside of Oxford,
the group begins to unravel and secrets come to light.

I first off have to say that the primary reason I saw this film was
because the poster was breathtaking혰 Gothic, beautiful, and
unconventional. I wasn't even that impressed with the trailer, but the
poster had some promise for me. Now, after seeing the film, I have
mixed feelings.

It starts off well enough, and maintains a sense of ambiguity in its
early stages, keeping the audience at arm's length; this is wonderful
during the first act, but the problem is that it never seems to break
free of this, even as the plot unravels and the truth comes out in the
end혰 there is little surprise in the film because it never lets its
audience in close enough to be affected by it. Clunky pacing and
editing is largely the culprit here, which seems to prevent the film
from ever really gaining steam. Instead, we are presented with a series
of repetitious happenings that fail to build on one another, and the
film edges on becoming an unmemorable blur as a consequence. The script
feasts heavily on the staples of 21st century American horror films to
its own detriment혰 we have possessed girls in white dresses, Satanic
symbols, demons, religious cults, blah, blah, blah. You know the story.

That said, the film does have some strengths. The script is purportedly
based on an actual experiment done in Toronto in the 1970s, so the film
does have that working in its favor, no matter how ludicrous it is to
take the events depicted at face value혰 the fact that there is at least
a shred of truth to this is compelling in a world where every horror
film released makes false claims of being based on reality. It is also
remarkably well photographed; the interplay between the standard camera
and the 8mm footage being filmed by the characters lends the picture a
unique mood and sense of voyeurism, and the depictions of the
experiments at times recall John Hough's British classic, "The Legend
of Hell House." The performances in the film are also solid, with Jared
Harris reeling everything in. 

I think the overall problem I had with this film was, despite the fact
that it roots itself in history as a period piece, the majority of it
is just frankly underwhelming because it too often takes the route of
90% of the horror films we see released here in America every month.
The premise is intriguing, but the execution leaves us with a
relatively well-made film whose main problem is that is just isn't that
darned compelling. 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Aside from The Exorcist, possession films always seem so lacking. They
never have enough real, human tension. They focus on predictable jump
scares and an even more predictable plot. It's safe to say that, in
general, possession films don't have much to offer. Thankfully, The
Quiet Ones does not suffer from the same faults of many other similar
films. 

Rather than simply focus on the dark progression of a possessed being,
The Quiet Ones presents the frustrating fears that torment the young,
inexperienced scientists, as they struggle with their desire to help a
suffering being through the means of science and logic, the underlying
threat of possible demonic possession,and the obsessive nature of
Professor Coupland. 

The performance of the cast is top notch, the effects are subtle, the
only disappointing aspect was the very, very end, and the fact that as
a whole, the film just wasn't that scary. Still, if the concept of
possession interests you, but you've been disappointed with past
projects, you might want to give this a shot.
<|_=00=_|>
The film is slow, plodding and lacks any depth. The scares don't scare.
It lacks suspense or creepiness. Character development falls flat on
it's face; you just don't become endeared to any of the characters, at
all. Rory Fleck-Byrne and Erin Richards seem completely redundant in
the film. Jared Harris performed well, but even he couldn't save this
one. I think the whole possession thing has been done to death, and to
pull it off nowadays takes strong characters, a solid story and a bit
of a twist. Insidious for example. I personally wouldn't waste time and
money on the film. Wait until it comes on TV in a couple of years.
Definitely not a must watch movie.
<|_=00=_|>
After having had my nerves shredded by the revived 'Hammer Horror' 2012
film The Woman In Black, (Which was also my first ever Hammer Horror)I
was thrilled to discover that Hammer's newest title has just reached UK
cinemas,which led to me getting ready to discover how quiet Hammer
Horror could be.

The plot:

England-1974:

Searching round for an assessment,a student film maker called Brian
McNeil accepts an offer from university professor Coupland to film
evidence of a study that he and his fellow students are
doing.Coupland's study involves him and his students curing a
psychologically broken women called Jane Harper,by helping Jane to
create a 'demon'.due to Harper having somehow got the belief that she
is possessed by a demonic ghost.

With having no other offers coming towards him,Brian decides that he
will take a shot at Coupland's experiment.Finding himself based in a
closed off country house, (chosen so that the experiment can take place
in silent) McNeil is shocked to discover,that despite having clear
signs of serious 'issues' that Jane Harper picks up on everything that
Coupland and his students say,with Jane knowing Brian's name before he
has the chance to tell her.Caught off-guard by Harper quick-witted
intelligence,McNeil finds himself becoming strangely attracted to
Jane,as he continues to film the amazing progress that Harper and
professor Coupland's team are making it curing Harper.

Deciding to jump in their progress on Jane,the group begin pushing Jane
to create a demonic ghost out of the pain that is contained within her
head,which leads to Brian filming the terrifying realisation that
Coupland and his team meet,which is that some nightmares are better let
kept in peoples heads.

View on the film:

Whilst the title itself contains the word 'Quiet' co-writer/ (along
with Craig Rosenberg,Tom De Ville and Oren Moverman) director John
Pogue decides to leave any silences behind with a rumbling
soundtrack.Despite stopping some of the more subtler chills covering
the screen,rattles the bird cages to breaking point which led to me
last night having to keep my bedroom light on,thanks to Pogue making
everyone of Harper's screams screech across the screen.

Placing the film in 1974, (a time when Hammer was in its last Psycho-
Thriller Horror era) Pogue smartly uses Brian's film making as a path
to give the title to different,stylish appearance,with the sharp tooth
clearness in the discussions between Coupland and the students being
counted by Brian's rough'n' ready filming,which helps to give the
chilling Horror taking on screen a raw,intensely gritty atmosphere.

For the screenplay of the film (which is very loosely based on some
real life tests,which led to not a single 1 of the participants being
either cursed or killed),the writers delicately allow for the screws of
the movie to gradually turn,as Coupland and his students change from
being easy-going to being horrified at what they cause Jane Harper to
reveal.Sadly,whilst the screenplay does very well at creating an icy
mood,the 2 twists in the title don't fully hit in the way that they
appear to have been planned,due to their having been far too stronger
signals to their arrival (with 1 of the twist being something that I
correctly guessed about 30 minutes into the title.)

Showing the shadow of Peter Cushing to still be cast upon Hammer
Horror,Jared Harris gives a delightfully crusty performance as
professor Coupland,with Harris displaying a real determination to cure
Harper,despite all of the clear deadly Horror's that he's beginning to
face.Placed in the shoes of the audience,Sam Claflin smartly avoids
Brian McNeil becoming annoyingly na챦ve,by showing a warm,natural desire
to protect Jane from the tests that Coupland and his students are
forcing her to take part in.

Chilling the screen up from the moment she shivers across the
screen,the beautiful Olivia Cooke delivers a fantastic,nerve crushing
performance with Jane Harper,thanks to Cooke attacking the movies shots
of terror with a devilish playfulness which really allows the character
to get under the skin,as Harper begins to reveal to Coupland and his
team the far from quiet Horrors of this Hammer Horror.
<|_=00=_|>
When one of these films come out, and i categorise it because they are
quite simply all the same at the core, i find myself hoping for
something new, something shocking, inventive, anything to completely
separate it from any other demonic/paranormal film out there. From the
trailer this didn't give much away, which was a pleasant surprise. The
story was there, yes, but it didn't feel the need to show any of its
frightening tricks; rightfully leaving them up the sleeve where they
belong. And i was left slightly intrigued by its mystique.

It was a good film, i enjoyed it, in ways it had its own unique vibe,
but it is not enough to distance itself from the rest. The typical
"jump" moments, where silence is replaced with a sharp, loud noise. The
story is re hashed. Cults and Entities. The one thing it tries to do
different is instead of just admitting that there is something wrong,
the professor is adamant that the going ons are because of the patients
mind. Things are flying about and going on fire because the patients
mind did it..... 

Jared Harris (Professor Coupland) and Olivia Cooke (Jane Harper) are
the two who standout the most. The rest are fodder; displaying very
poor acting and their characters where very tacky. The film does have
its moments (T-Rex soundtrack) and it does have an unusual mellowness
surrounding it, but unfortunately, it is just another routine horror.
<|_=00=_|>
The Quiet Ones is the latest offering from resurrected horror studios
Hammer Films. After the mixed fortunes of The Resident, Wake Wood, Let
Me In and The Woman in Black, the studio that was once the spearhead of
Great British horror lets rip with a chilling tale, purportedly based
on truth, about a psychiatric patient's apparent supernatural
abilities.

University professor Joseph Coupland (Jared Harris) and his research
students, Krissi (Erin Richards) and Harry (Rory Fleck-Byrne), study
Jane Harper (Olivia Cooke) through a slot in a locked door as, alone in
her room, she appears able to summon the dead. While Jane torments
herself and suffers at the hands of an apparent poltergeist, Coupland
and his team endeavour to explain every occurrence with reason and
logic. He recruits a young filmmaker, Brian (Sam Claflin), to document
the experiment but Brian falls for Jane and her behavior becomes ever
more extreme. But everything can be explained with science. Can't it?

We've been here before. The Quiet Ones is not an entirely original
idea, but then neither was The Borderlands, and look how unnerving that
was! It's a fine idea with great settings (Oxford University, an
abandoned mansion) and good performances. The trouble is, for a horror
it isn't terribly scary. I sat down for the screening expecting to grip
the arms of my seat, scrunch up my toes and wonder again what the hell
I was doing putting myself through this. Alas, the hair on the back of
my neck remained largely prostrate. Maybe three horror films in a week
deadens the impact.

There are plenty good 'jumps' but most are introduced with a rousing
score or an obvious lull in activity. There are a few red herrings to
build the tension and leave the viewer taut with expectation but at no
point could I say I was scared or needed to look away from the screen
to remind myself I was safe and in a cinema and not right there and
about to be evil's next victim. Being on edge is good, but not good
enough.

The special effects work well and there are one or two particularly
enjoyable moments where DoP M찼ty찼s Erd챕ly has let rip with the lighting
and camera work. Likewise, the props and set dressing set the scene
beautifully but, were it not for the cast, John Pogue's film would be
merely dull instead of at least managing to be enjoyable.

The last time I saw Jared Harris, he was swinging at the end of a rope
in Mad Men and it's great to see him back on the big screen in a role
that is less constricting than that of Lane Pryce. His Coupland is a
combination of obsessive sleazebag and kindly mentor and the blend is
perfect, never veering into the realms of pastiche. Likewise, Richards,
most recently seen in Open Grave, draws us in with her determined
temptress, the kind of girl you'd want to know but never cross.

It is Olivia Cooke, though, who makes The Quiet Ones worthwhile. It is
difficult not to focus on her when she appears, even fleetingly, upon
the screen. The other actors are her guests as she commands our
attention. Always convincing as Jane the vulnerable waif, acolyte of
evil and desperate victim, she manages to be sexy and enticing despite
her sunken eyes and bruised skin; a black widow that Brian,
unsurprisingly, struggles to resist. Let's hope Cooke isn't merely a
saving grace in her next project: screenwriter Stiles White's
directorial debut, Ouija.

The morning after, The Quiet Ones remains an intriguing story, true or
not, that is well performed. But it lacks guts or real bite and,
perhaps, could do with being a lot louder.

Or at least whispering in a very sinister way혚 

For more reviews from The Squiss, subscribe to my blog and like the
Facebook page.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Quiet Ones" turned out to be somewhat of a dull and boring movie
experience. Which was a shame, because the movie did have potential to
be so much more, especially given the setting of the movie.

The story is about a college professor and some of his student
assistants performing an experiment on a young woman who is either
haunted, possessed or suffering from an unknown ailment.

Story-wise then "The Quiet Ones" wasn't particularly impressive,
because the aspects and possibilities that the movie had at hand
weren't utilized. And instead, the movie just trotted ahead at a very
dull and slow pace, without anything even remotely scary happening.
Sure there were some nice enough moments here and there, but they were
few and far between, and were hardly enough to salvage the movie in any
possible way.

The best parts of "The Quiet Ones" were the acting of Jared Harris and
Olivia Cooke.

If you are looking for a good thrill or scare, then "The Quiet Ones" is
hardly the movie to spend time on, because it doesn't offer that at
all.

The movie doesn't bring anything new to the genre and as such it was a
much below average movie. I am rating "The Quiet Ones" a mere 3 out of
10 stars, because I wasn't impressed in one bit.
<|_=00=_|>
If there's one thing that can be said about "The Quiet Ones," it's that
the movie is definitely an extension of Hammer's classic films of the
1960s. Not content to just throw out some monster scares, they delve
into the Satanic cult themes of classics like "The Devil Rides Out,"
"To the Devil a Daughter," and "The Satanic Rites of Dracula." Although
not perfect by any means and a bit confusing in plot if you're not
paying close enough attention, the famous production company delivers a
creepy new entry to add to their rich cinematic history. 

Much like Hammer's early works, "The Quiet Ones" is a Gothic period
piece. However, instead of it taking place in the eerie 1800s or early
1900s, it takes place in the 1970s in a secluded and mysterious
mansion. A University professor (Jared Harris) leads a group of
students in an experiment to help an emotionally disturbed young woman.
Jane Harper (Olivia Cooke) believes she is followed by a sinister
spirit who manifests itself through violent outbursts. Is something
supernatural occurring or is Jane somehow willing herself to harm
others and wreak havoc wherever she goes?

"The Quiet Ones" is rated PG-13 for intense sequences of violence and
terror, sexual content, thematic material, language, and smoking
throughout. There are also a couple scenes of brief nudity of the male
and female persuasion. The brief nudity was so quick it could have been
completely cut out in editing.

It might not be the greatest example of a modern Hammer horror film,
but "The Quiet Ones" does successfully carry the torch passed on by so
many great genre classics of the past many grew up watching. It has all
the ingredients you'd expect from the English House of Horror, though
they might not follow the recipe as closely as you'd hope. Chillingly
convincing performances from Olivia Cooke and Jared Harris more than
make up for any narrative muddiness viewers might find themselves
wading through.
