
Let's get this straight right now: I appreciate good movies. Was this a
good movie? No, in fact it was pretty stupid. Will people hate it?
Absolutely. Did I enjoy it? A whole lot. I don't know what it was about
this movie, but at times I could not stop myself from laughing. In my
head I knew it was stupid, but I just didn't care. It's immature,
raunchy, and ridiculous, but I loved it. The only Marlon Wayans movies
I like, along with this one, is the first Scary Movie, and White
Chicks. All three of them were pretty stupid. But that's the point.
Sometimes you just have to see those movies that are obviously not
good, but will entertain you. I love good, well made movies as much as
the next guy, but I also enjoy just kicking back and watching a movie
that will keep me smiling for 90-120 minutes. So if you're bored, have
$7-$10, and an hour and a half to burn, watch this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Whether or not this movie was stereotypical should be set aside for
reviews. Focus on the main parts of this movie which were to utterly
make fun of paranormal activity and the devil inside. I felt like this
movie is under-rated. I thought they got straight into funny and
absolutely making fun of paranormal activity 1 very quickly. The first
scene was based on making fun of the camera work of paranormal activity
in the bed room. Although these sorts of comedies are always a stupid
sort of funny, I laughed throughout this movie, especially at the
character of Chip the psychic; whose main goal is to bring out the gay
demons in Malcolm the main character. I had a good laugh and if you can
score some tickets for cheap its not a bad, make you laugh at stupid
comedy, type of movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I am giving this movie a "9". I loved this movie, every scene was
hilarious. I don't understand why the movie critics are so critical of
this movie, to me a "spoof" is just like "a roast" it is meant to be
funny and sometimes delivered in a risqué manner. Bravo Marlon... You
did a fantastic job with this. I can not wait to go see it again plus
buy the movie when it comes out. Everyone in my party was laughing and
still laughing today and we send it two days ago. I thought my
boyfriend was going to pee his pants he was laughing so hard. The whole
theater was cracking up. Go see it people, we need to laugh after all
the craziness that has been going on this world we live in.
<|_=00=_|>
*1/2 out of **** (ROTTEN)

Channel the New Year. Already in the second week, the Tomato Meter is
at its lowest- a dashing seven percent, and with a spoof movie. This
cannot end well. I will admit, the trailer had me chuckling. I'm big on
stereotypical humor, and from time to time I like to succumb myself to
just stupid, dumb fun. Being a fan of the first Scary Movie certainly
doesn't hurt matters.

With that being said, "A Haunted House" is exactly what you'd expect...
and not much else. In terms of humor, the ratio's about 2:5. That might
seem like a bad mark, which it is, but for a film that aims at the
lowest common denominator and scores a higher denominator, it's not too
shabby. Acting/story, well, you don't go to these kinds of movies for
that. Same goes for editing/choreography.

There's not much you can say about this film. This is one of those
cases where you either are the audience FOR this film or you're not. If
you're a fan of the first two Scary Movies, have an admiration for the
Wayans brothers, and dig the advertisements for this film, you'll walk
out of there with some good laughs here and there. If you completely
despise these movies, or this type of humor in general, you'll walk out
feeling cheated.

However, be warned, this is NOT a kids film (ala a Jason
Friedberg/Aaron Seltzer production or even the last Scary Movies that
were PG-13). Tons of sex scenes (played for laughs though), nudity,
drugs, and such abound. 

All in all, it's not as bad as you're led to believe, but it's still
pretty flimsy.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay if you've seen the first Scary Movie and laughed, you'll find this
funny. I like silly/dumb funny so I was cracking up at many parts. Some
folks are looking for witty, award winning comedy, full of heartfelt
all-around good jokes. If this is you, skip out on this one. Overall,
I'd give it a 6.5/7. Some parts were simply dumb, but that's to be
expected. If you have 10 bucks, an hour and a half, and you wouldn't
mind a laugh or two, I say go for it. If you're looking for wit, class,
and style, keep it moving. Still unsure? Okay I'll tell you the movie,
without spoiling it. Basically a guy has his girlfriend move into his
house. He's skeptical, because his friends have warned him about the
dangers of having a girlfriend move in, ya know, no more
dream-girlfriend. Anyways, she moves in and stuff starts getting weird.
With the increasing weirdness, more characters are introduce to help
stop the weirdness. It's a movie with a simple plot, simple characters,
and a silly flow. If this sounds good to you, you'll love it!
<|_=00=_|>
A Haunted House was a terrible movie. It had a few (very far between)
cheap laughs. Most of the jokes fell flat and the gags were lame and
stupid. And I don't mean stupid-funny. I mean stupid as in rolling your
eyes and wondering why the film makers expected this to make you laugh.
Most of the film parodied the blockbuster horror smash Paranormal
Activity, and also contains a few poorly done spoofs of iconic scenes
from other well known horror movies. 

If you're looking for a decent horror spoof, I recommend picking up
Scary Movie 5 instead. It's not a great movie either, but it's Oscar
material compared to this stink bomb.
<|_=00=_|>
I generally like the Wayans brothers comedy style but I absolutely hate
the Paranormal movies. I think I would have liked it better if the
single hand-held camera style wasn't used. It makes you a little dizzy
and it's hard to follow. There were some funny moments but a lot of the
movie is kinda awkward and uncomfortable. I think they put effort into
the storyline (or lack thereof) but it feels forced and the humour is
stale.

Overall it had a good talented cast and normally I think I would have
enjoyed something like this but I didn't like the paranormal activity
influence. Nobody needs to rip-off the paranormal activity series as
there have been enough stupid sequels from the original movie. Dull as
hell and highly overrated.
<|_=00=_|>
The parody is a lost art form. While it still exists, it is no longer
the witty rib on the subject material it was when films like "The Naked
Gun," "Airplane" and even the first "Scary Movie" came out. There's no
wit or bite to them, they are just "let's make this look like the
subject we are lampooning, throw in a Kardashian reference and then a
fart sound." "A Haunted House" is basically an unofficial Scary Movie
sequel/spin-off that parodies the "found footage" genrea genre that is
already a joke and readily parodies itself by making each and every one
of the films the same over and over again. The film sees Malcolm
(Marlon Wayans) and his girlfriend Kisha (Essence Atkins) move in
together in a house that is basically an amalgam of the first two
houses in the "Paranormal Activity" franchise. After Kisha suspects
some paranormal presences in the home, Malcolm invites a security man
(David Koechner) to install cameras and a psychic (Nick Swardson) to
"read" the house. Pretty soon the hauntings start to get more frequent
and violent until the demon ultimately possesses Kisha. And somewhere
during this, I guess there are some jokes and gags.

This film feels less like a parody of the "Paranormal Activity" films
during much of its running length and more like a potential spin-off of
the series. For nearly the first half-hour of the film, the movie is
set-up just like every other "PA" film with Malcolm getting a camera
and becoming increasingly (and very unhealthily) obsessed with filming
every aspect of their daily lives until the first moments of a haunting
start--and then he gets MORE cameras! There might have been some jokes
in the form of Wayans hamming it up for the camera but, for the most
part, these sequences were just as inane and as boring as the opening
to any typical "found footage" film.

﻿Once the jokes and the "humor" actually starts, I found I was just as
silent and as stoic as I was during the first part of the film. All the
jokes come from either bottom of the barrel fart and private part
jokes, parodies of sequences from the "found footage" films they are
mocking that are just shoe-horned into the story (and when they don't
feel completely out of place, are just painfully unfunny) and
argument-style banter between characters that are overflowing with pop
culture metaphors and stereotypes that are more annoying than humorous.
In fact, most of the film is taking references, stereotypes and parody
sequences and beating them over and over again till they are no longer
recognizable as a potentially comedic scene and just become grating and
hard to sit through.

Really, everything about this is predictable and cliché with no real
breaths of fresh air placed in it. Occasionally, I found myself
laughing but, in all honesty, I laughed only twice at something Marlon
Wayans did and the rest of the time I was just silent.

Marlon gives off some straight-laced performances but they are just
lost in a string of nonsense from those around him and performances
that reek of the scenery that Koechner,Swardson and Cedric the
Entertainer just chewed on. The rest of the cast look like they were
just goofing around on set, trying to amuse each other, and the
director just said, "Cut, we'll work with that." However,everyone pales
in comparison with the really, truly, immensely awful performance of
Essence Atkins. Atkins is just hard to watch. She pretty much overacts
every scene she's in to the point it's like watching a person parody
the parody that they are performing in. Even Swardson looked somewhat
decent compared to her.

Shockingly, however, I was really impressed with the film's effects.
The haunting sequences look really good and are about on par with
anything seen in the "Activity" films. However, this doesn't make the
film funnier, it only makes it look more like a spin-off of the
franchise.

"A Haunted House" is, plain and simple, not funny. The two amusing
moments it did present to me did nothing to allow the classification of
this movie as a comedy or even a well-thought out parody/satire. The
film feels less like a comedy and more like a collection of YouTube
videos of people using their camera phones to make poorly feathered out
"Paranormal Activity" send ups. This movie is proof that the art of the
parody is not an easy one and just doing some poop jokes in a scene
that looks like the scene from the movie you are mocking doesn't
constitute a parody.
<|_=00=_|>
I will keep this brief as this movie is not even worth spending time to
write a review other than to say don't waste your time unless you enjoy
recycled, crass humor. I knew I was going to hate this movie from the
opening scene with the dog. Is it just me am I the only one that find
animal cruelty inappropriate and offensive? The movie only got worse
from there. Poorly written, repetitive and offensive on every level
without being funny. This is the first film I've seen that depicts rape
with a pot smoking ghost, I'm no prude and I have a sense of humour but
geez it was really bad taste and not funny at all. Bad acting,even
worse unimaginative script, teenagers would probably love it!! I wanted
to leave after 10 minutes however I was with a friend who really wanted
to see it. It's on the top of my list of worst movies ever, don't waste
your money on this utter garbage.
<|_=00=_|>
"You made a deal with the devil for a pair of shoes? Not shoes
Malcolm!!! Louboutins OK, they've got red soles and they make my calves
pop. I really needed them OK!" Malcolm (Wayans) and Kisha (Atkins) have
moved in together and are excited to start their new life together.
When strange things start to happen they look for answers and narrow it
down to one thing. A ghost is messing with them. This is another movie
that is pretty much what you would expect. Funnier then the recent
Scary Movie movies but after a half hour it seemed to run out of ideas
and started to repeat itself. The first half hour was really funny
though. The movie spoofs the Paranormal Activity and Last Exorcism
movies so if you have seen those this will be funnier. The dialog is
funny and this is worth watching but don't expect to laugh all the way
through, unless you like the same joke over and over. Overall, very
funny for awhile then runs out of steam. I give it a B-.
