
In the Chinese Spirit Realm, Grand Master Oogway (Randall Duk Kim)
fights against the spirit warrior and collector Kai (J. K. Simmons) and
has his chi stolen, but not before he warns Kai that Po (Jack Black),
the Dragon Warrior, will stop him. Kai disregards this and returns to
the mortal world. Meanwhile, Master Shifu (Dustin Hoffman) announces
his retirement and passes the role of teacher to Po. He discovers that
teaching kung fu is hard, as the Furious Five members Tigress (Angelina
Jolie), Crane (David Cross), Mantis (Seth Rogen), Viper (Lucy Liu), and
Monkey (Jackie Chan) are injured as a result. Po is demoralized as a
teacher, but is advised by Master Shifu to be himself.

Po heads home to his adoptive father Mr. Ping (James Hong) at his
noodle shop where a panda named Li Shan (Bryan Cranston) breaks Po's
dumpling-eating record. They both soon learn that Li is Po's biological
father and they bond with each other much to Ping's jealousy. After
introducing Li to Shifu and his friends, the Valley of Peace is
suddenly attacked by past Kung Fu Masters turned into jade statues
under the control of Kai. The team then learn through research that Kai
was Grand Master Oogway's old friend who fought with him long ago, but
was banished to the spirit realm for 500 years when he grew thirsty for
the power of chi. Kai can only be defeated by a master of true chi,
which they discover was an innate ability of the panda colonies. Po, at
Li's suggestion, along with Mr. Ping, travels to the secret village
where the pandas hide while Shifu and the Furious Five stay behind to
investigate Kai's movements and defend the Palace. Although Po is eager
to learn chi, he first learns the life of a panda in the village, which
he feels grateful to be a part of.

After learning that all the Kung Fu masters are missing, Master Shifu
sends Crane and Mantis to find them. Crane and Mantis join with other
Kung Fu masters to confront Kai, but they all have their chi stolen.
Kai then arrives at the Jade Palace and destroys it, then takes
everybody's chi while Tigress escaped to find Po and warns him of the
upcoming danger. Afraid, Li and the pandas prepare to run away. When Po
demands that his father teaches him chi, he reveals that they had all
forgotten chi, and he only wanted to save Po from Kai's wrath. Hurt
over his father's misdirection, Po isolates himself and trains
vigorously to confront Kai. Mr. Ping then comforts Li and admits he was
initially worried Po would be taken away from him, but came to realize
that Li being a part of Po's life simply added to his happiness, and
that they should stay by Po's side as family.

Tigress confronts Po and tells him that he cannot defeat Kai without
continuing to discover the secret of chi, during which Po confesses
that the experience has him once more doubting his potential. Li and
the villagers, having decided to stay, ask Po to train them so they can
fight back. Po agrees and teaches them using their everyday activities
as their assets and begins their plan to save their village. Kai
arrives and sends his minions to capture Po, but they are held off by
the pandas and Tigress, distracting Kai. The plan works, but ultimately
fails when Po tries to use the Wuxi Finger hold on Kai, who reveals
that it won't work on spirits. Kai gains the upper hand in their fight,
but in a last-ditch effort, Po uses the Wuxi Finger Hold on himself
while grabbing onto Kai, sending them both to the spirit realm. They
fight again, but Kai defeats Po and prepares to steal his chi. Using
what they learned from Po and about who they are, Li, Tigress, Mr. Ping
and the pandas are able to use their chi to save him. Po, with the chi
flow, suddenly generates a golden dragon-shaped avatar around him and
destroys Kai by overloading him with his chi, freeing all of the Kung
Fu masters in the process.

In an ethereal golden pond, Grand Master Oogway appears to Po, and
informs him his journey has come full circle, revealing his role by
selecting Po as Dragon Warrior is also because of his descent from the
ancient pandas, and his embodiment of the yin-yang. He also reveals his
role in alerting Li of Po's survival, and expresses his happiness to Po
about how much he has grown. By choice, Po wields a mystic green staff
bestowed by Oogway to return to the mortal world. Everyone returns to
the Jade Palace, where Po proudly gazes upon his family, friends, and
legacy in the spot where his journey began.
<|_=00=_|>
Kung fu panda is a concept so ridiculous that we think to ourselves..
it is actually genius. Jack Black returns as the lovable Po, and shows
us just why we missed him so much in the years we had to wait. These
films always deal with acceptance and Kung Fu Panda 3 is no exception,
with an added family element. I give praise for this for the simple
reason that Bryan Cranston is AWESOME and really stands out in a movie
that already has some brilliant stars, he was so funny and heartwarming
as Po's biological father and makes a welcome addition to the cast.

The story follows Po as he is asked to teach the furious 5 so Shifu can
retire and master 'Chi'. After a bad session he meets his father by
chance and finds out about a new supernatural threat from the spirit
realm, played by the brilliant J.K Simmons. He adds his own stamp to
this character and gives us a badass villain, like Cranston becoming a
welcome edition. Po embarks on a journey to a secret panda village to
himself master 'Chi' and take out Kai for good. So for a start the
story is brilliant, it keeps everyone entertained and never lingers on
for too long. The members of the furious 5 however do get less screen
time, even Angelina Jolie's Tigress although she does play the biggest
role of the 5. The standout for the limited screen time he has is Seth
Rogen's Mantis. I don't know what it is but i love this character and
wanted more of him.

If you are a fan of the other films in the Kung Fu Panda franchise like
i am then you won't be disappointed. The film manages to stay on par
with both previous films and has all the humour and kung fu action you
can expect from it. If the franchise ended here i would be happy, i
would love more from the characters and the world built around them,
but i really don't want the franchise to outstay it's welcome at the
same time. But anyway, go see Kung Fu Panda 3. It is much better than
the forgettable London has Fallen and you won't regret it!
<|_=00=_|>
I went with my 14-year old son to watch Kung Fu Panda 3. We both loved
it. It's definitely a feel-good movie. We've watched every Kung Fu
Panda movie, and we are definitely fans. The cast is incredible! Jack
Black is awesome as Po, as usual. We particularly enjoyed the music
score (which nicely emphasized the emotional parts) and the artwork. I
appreciated that there were morals woven into this movie, especially
with regard to finding your true self, appreciation of what it means to
be a family and the importance of family, and Po's learning about chi,
the life force in all living things. This all added depth to Po's
character. There were, of course, many funny moments in the movie that
made us both laugh. At the end of the movie (and we always stay to the
very end, reading all the credits), the artwork was particularly
beautiful, where they took images from the movie and made it look like
an ancient, Chinese watercolor. We left feeling very good about having
spent time together at this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
So being a huge fan of Kung Fu Panda, I may be a little biased, but
Kung Fu Panda 3 delivers!!! I was so excited to the see the movie as I
think this story line has some aspects of awesomeness!!! Jack Black
leads and all star cast of actors that bring not only great animation,
but also solid entertainment from start to finish. 

I went with my girl, who had to fight back the tears through parts of
the movie, especially the end. Yes it was moving and had a great
message. Family and knowledge are just some of the major points Kung Fu
Panda focuses on. 

But enough of the parent stuff, Kids will love it, so many little
voices throughout the theater busted out in their joyous cute laughs,
along with their parents. It has so much fun for children they will not
be disappointed. 

But for adults, lets say us men will love the action and some cool
above normal animation which happen all over the movie to keep some of
us action junkies enthralled. And women will love the messages of love,
family and self-worth with some beautiful scenes of colors and
imagination. Not to say I didn't enjoy all aspects of the movie. 

As far as a trilogy goes, Kung Fu Panda, at least for me and my girl
was as good if not better than its predecessors. Which to me was not
easy to beat. 

Jack Black brings to life a lovable, clumsy, hungry, Kung Fu Panda that
anyone can relate to or enjoy. Kung Fu Panda 3 is a true treat on many
levels and great for any family, date or lover of animation.

enjoy it!!! Skadooooshhh!!!
<|_=00=_|>
As a certain character once said, a James Bond movie is only as good as
the villain. The same rule actually applies to just about any story
with some kind of confrontation, with the best of such stories having
villains which you even want to relate to.

Kung Fu Panda trilogy is no exception. One of the reasons behind the
first film's excellence was Tai Lung, a character so intense,
conflicted and deeply rooted in the history of the KFP universe, that
his story managed to combine the vibes of two great confrontations:
Obi-Wan vs Darth Vader and Darth Vader vs Luke. So it's no wonder that
my greatest wish for every next KFP movie was to have him back somehow.
Those vain hopes...

The villain's complexity became the foundation on which the rest of the
story could develop. Including the main character. First film's Po was
so great because he was a classic "loser with a dream" type of
character: confined in his bleak reality but refusing to accept his
destiny. Po's power was in finally letting himself pursue the dream
he's been having on his own for so long, and in how a true dream can
overcome any obstacle in its way.

The problems began when Po was raised to the supreme position. It's
where the pursuit of a dream was replaced with a job. Po is not a
leader, he's not even a hero, he's just a guy who does what he can
because his heart tells him so. But letting him keep that spirit would
mean losing pace for the franchise. So each next film was basically
creating a new villain out of thin air (or, in this film's case, from
the other world, literally) and imposing the duty of defeating him on
Po, using it as a justification for granting him another magic ability.

The gods are what we create ourselves. And, at the end of the day, KFP3
finished creating a cult of the Dragon Warrior by transforming Po from
a goofus with a heart and spirit into some kind of omnipotent golden
Buddha, smiling and just-be-yourself-preaching. The complexity is gone,
the humanity, with all its inherent flaws, is gone. The only thing
that's left is the divine perfection and invulnerability. Maybe the
kids will love such glossy happy ending, just like they love playing
video games in god mode: easy win, plain and simple. But for someone
more mature, that kind of easy is just boring.
<|_=00=_|>
There's a reason why the "Kung Fu Panda" franchise is one of the most
successful of all-time, and I'd like to believe that that reason is
because the writers and the creative talents behind it know how to
solidly move the story forward, even with the same characters, they
know how to make them evolve without losing the charm and the heart
that made the first and the second film effective.

In KUNG FU PANDA 3, Master Shifu appoints Po as the new teacher, a
responsibility that of course Po is not able to handle, because he
feels more comfortable just being the dragon warrior that saves the
village whenever they need help. But that's the thing, once you've felt
comfortable and you do only what you can, then you close any room for
growth. But being a teacher is not Po's only new challenge. We know
that it was just a matter of time until Po reconnects with his family,
it was teased at the second film's end. Po's long-lost panda father
reappears, just as the supernatural villain Kai, from the spirit realm,
returns to the mortal world and vows vengeance. Each film has a certain
kung fu style or a goal that Po must achieve, and in this one he has to
master the Chi while at the same time learning to know what it means to
be a panda.

I had concerns at first because "Kung Fu Panda 3" is released this
month, and you know that January is a dumping ground for terrible
movies. But now I see that this may actually have been a smart move on
the studio's part because this is quite possibly the only great film
this month, people will turn to "Kung Fu Panda 3" because everything
else will disappoint them.

Just like the first and the second film, KUNG FU PANDA 3's animation is
sharp and beautiful. The action sequences are fun and entertaining, and
there's a little bit of a fish-out-water situation as well because our
hero Po is pretty much new to this whole Panda village and they way
they do things over there. But what rings true throughout all three
films is that it's ultimately about Po's journey to become one with who
he is. He accepted his destiny despite people's doubts, he let go of
the past and found inner peace, and now he's put to the test once more,
his confidence will be tried once more, and so seeing him be the
underdog again is why root for Po. And on top of that, KUNG FU PANDA 3
never runs out of ammo to get you to feel emotional and they do it
without trying too hard because it's done in a way that serves the
story and the characters, the emotional scenes make sense, I often say
that "Kung Fu Panda" movies faithfully follow Pixar's manual  the
undeniable importance of a well-written story; one that goes straight
for the heart and aims to inspire. KUNG FU PANDA 3 is simply awesome!
And it's so cool if you think about it, this is an animated family film
franchise that gets more and more solid with each installment, and
that's rare.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a great fan of this franchise and I am very disappointed with this
part. This movie had glimpses but it was not the complete movie like
the last two. The beginning lasted till the end, and the end, ended
abruptly where Po and rest of the panda's master the forgotten
technique and defeat the most powerful Kai in a breath. 

Positives: 1. Po meets his dad (Trailer gave it away anyways) 2. Cant
find any other

Negatives: 1. No solid story line and no solid plan for Po on how to
learn new stuff. 2. Well no plan needed as the villain Kai did not get
a chance to display his evilness

Have to watch the first two parts in sequence to get my chi back.

I hope the makers crack their heads and give us a more complete movie
where Po advances to the next level and teaches the world few new
tricks.
<|_=00=_|>
Kung Fu Panda 3 meets the minimum requirements in what fans of the
first two films would expect: jokes about weight, Po's still struggling
with handling Kung Fu (even though he became the "dragon warrior" at
the end of the first film) and questions of how to determine what true
family is. Sadly, the film itself lazily meets these expectations
without providing much else for its fan base.

We start with an uninteresting villain played by J.K. Simmons. He is an
associate of Master Oogway, and that is how he is known (this joke gets
really old really fast within the film itself). He manages to escape
the spirit realm (this universe's equivalent of the afterlife) and is
determined to take over the spirits of kung fu masters because.... well
who cares? The film simply establishes he is a bad guy who wants
revenge and to have control over the real world - you know, your
typical one-dimensional children's movie villain.

Po's father, played by Bryan Cranston, finds him at the start of the
film, which is really convenient because pandas are supposed to know
about something called "chi" which is what the villain is after. Pandas
were known to heal Oogway with this power in the past, and it is of
course the only way to stop Simmons' character. This subplot eventually
clears up what we did not know about the pandas in this universe, and
of course the film goes to great lengths to make comedy out of how lazy
pandas turn out to be.

The jokes used in this film are just rehashed jokes from the first two
films, not providing great comedy as its predecessors since it proves
to be unoriginal. Kung Fu Panda 3 is still enjoyable, but its strength
lies on the theme of questionable identity posed by the two competing
fathers of the film: Mr. Ping and Li. This is only touched on a few
times throughout the film, but when it is touched on it brings up
interesting questions about whether Po would need nature or nurture:
that is, does he need his biological father or the one who raised him.
These moments are the only ones of great intrigue within the film.

There is also a return to a cop-out fighting technique from the first
film that makes the conflict of the story less difficult for Po to get
through. While the film has the same spirit of its predecessors, Kung
Fu Panda 3 is not a very fun film, but it is not terrible.

2.5/4.0
<|_=00=_|>
At start it felt like that I have entered that awesomely animated
familiar environment of kungfun with our favourite panda. 

Sadly the same feeling remains the whole time. Don't get me wrong,
fights are still fun but story wise you get the feel they are just
trying to make things up now. Also it doesn't help to keep similar
story structure every time. It just bores you much of the time. Not
caring about the characters as you already know what their fate is
going to be, you have ample amount of time to appreciate the animation.
I really liked the 2-D animation that is shown for flashback. Moreover
there's so much pseudo philosophical drag & knowledge sharing going on
that it makes you feel "ya ya! just give me some more kungfun already!"

Now children would definitely love this film. But for any adult who
have already watched the awesome first part & then the follow-up later,
it could still be fun provided you are in really good mood (& remain so
while ignoring (virtually) repeated script and zero character
developments) and ready to mentally kungfu-dance through whole film on
the song "Everybody's kungfu fightin'..." :D
<|_=00=_|>
The Good Stuff (in order of awesomeness) 

1. Superb animation and various art styles used. Hits are emphasized
well with excellent sound design and voice acting. Good action. 

2. Jokes are (mostly) good, made me laugh out loud multiple times. 

3. The plot and pacing is pretty good and character development is
adequate.

The Bad Stuff (in order of amplitude) 

1. Antagonist is not really memorable with vanilla personality and
motivation. 

2. Film is obviously meant for a young-ish audience and contains some
irritating slapstick and bad jokes. 

3. 99% of Panda characters are completely forgettable.

Should you watch it: Probably, yes. I can't stress enough how good some
of the visuals are.
