
Far too often, you see the cast of a movie, the previews, go in with an
idea of what to expect, and come out feeling you were duped out of your
money. Not so with 'The Internship.' I was reluctant to see it based on
some of the poor reviews I'd seen, but my wife, who pays absolutely no
attention to reviews whatsoever, is a big fan of both Wilson and Vaughn
(sp?), so we took the chance. We both found it to be entertaining and
funny, never lagging too long before the next joke. The Google campus
proved an interesting site in itself.

Of course it's a bit far-fetched, but who cares. If you like Owen and
Vince either separately or together, you will likely enjoy the movie.
All of the supporting actors did a commendable job as well.
<|_=00=_|>
I never write reviews but after seeing how the film has been reviewed
as mediocre, I thought I ought to, but I'll keep it short and sweet. To
be blatantly honest, I saw the film mainly because Dylan O'Brien was in
it. However,now that I've seen it, I would watch it again even if Dylan
O'Brien weren't in it. It was humorous and I could connect with the
nerd references in the film which I found to be very funny. More than
it was funny, it was refreshing. The film felt modern and was spot on
about society and how it works today. The settings themselves will have
you in awe at just how cool they are. All the characters were lovable
as well and strayed from what I had first expected in a good way. I
mean, it was impossible to not connect with them, if not at least one.
The film contained that basic underdog story line but the way they
executed this story line was different and I appreciated it. This isn't
a film that has the biggest climax or heartfelt ending, but it will
keep you smiling the entire time. A very entertaining movie through and
through.
<|_=00=_|>
AS soon as I got out of the movie, I came home to give this movie a
horrible review. It was so cheesy, it was almost unwatchable. The lines
are very corny, the acting is horrible...I love Owen Wilson AND Vince
Vaughn, but this was just painful to watch. The plot line was
ridiculously predictable. There was hardly any "conflict" or adversity.
Poorly produced... a lot of big names in the movie makes it even worse.
Will Ferrell's character was embarrassingly bad. He was not funny, and
overall he was really unnecessary. This movie was such a waste of time.
Basically a two hour long advert for google. Don't waste your money.
Rent Wedding Crashers instead
<|_=00=_|>
This is nothing more than a two minute ad stretched out to a full
feature. Its so painfully obvious that it is nothing more than a ad
campaign and not a serious movie. Although there is some funny moments
in this its pretty clear that Owen is a bit short on cash and agrees to
anything these days which is so sad because i really like him as an
actor. But the way both him and Vince Vaughn is selling themselves
short is horrible.

My advise is to stay far away from this horrible corporate ad campaign.
Shame on you Owen i thought that you had more integrity than this......

This movie isn't really a movie its a painful advertisement Avoid it if
you can

I gave this a 1 out of 10 just because its an ad not a movie
<|_=00=_|>
Let me preface this by saying I love Vince Vaughn. Its impossible for
me to watch any of his comedies without laughing, and I think he's
nothing short of a brilliant comic actor. That's why it pains me to
write this review.

This movie has funny parts. Nothing that will make you lose control of
your bladder, and despite what some people have been writing, this
AIN'T no Wedding Crashers. This movie is more like an e mail you got 4
years ago that was hilarious, and someone sent it to you again. You
forgot about it, opened it, and remembered how funny it was, but no
joke is as funny the second time around. Big lack of originality here
and Will Ferrel's character was not remotely funny. Unlike Wedding
Crashers "Chaz" this character was more like the Starsky and Hutch
cameo. Wasn't impressed with that, wasn't impressed with this.

When you get the same group of actors together for ANOTHER comedy, you
better have some seriously different writing. This movie badly needs
some situational / physical comedy. Charles Xavier and the antagonist
punching people is weak and lazy writing.

There was one Mr. Bean quality situational comic scene in the movie
that was brilliant featuring one of the supporting interns at a strip
club, and you'll instantly recognize it when you see it. Other than
that it relies heavily on jokes in dialog - which aren't bad. They are
witty, and Vaugh's delivery is great. It's just that I feel like I've
been there and done that. Wilson's love interest felt totally scripted
to me - I'm not buying any of that, not for a dime. Waaay too rushed
into instant love - kind of like, but even worse than, Wedding
Crashers.

If you choose to see this in the theater, go to a matinée. It isn't
worth full price. I'd definitely watch it once it hits RedBox or
Netflix. Well worth a couple bucks - $30+ at a theater, not so much.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was great from beginning to end. I laughed harder than I have
in any recent comedy I've seen in the theater. I saw an advanced
screening in Chicago a couple weeks ago and the entire audience was
cracking up the entire time. Even the romantic scenes are funny in this
movie, and thats kind of rare. 

Also I'm sick of people giving it negative reviews just because it's at
Google, or it's a Google commercial. As if Google is really hungry for
people to come do their internships. Obviously they're getting the best
minds in the whole world to come there already. I'm sure everybody
knows what the heck Google is.

Go see it, it's worth the price of admission. Vaughn and Wilson are
great together...feels like a Wedding Crashers sequel of sorts with the
way the two characters interact with each other...and of course a
perfect cameo early on was hilarious.
<|_=00=_|>
I once heard someone say that chart music is music for people who don't
like music. I couldn't agree more. Daytime radio in the UK sucks, and
the playlist totals about 20 songs which get played over and over,
every single day. No originality, nothing to inspire, nothing to get
your teeth into - just like this movie. The Internship is basically a
film for people who don't like films.

Just what section of the cinematic audience this pile of tripe is aimed
at I really don't know. Maybe it's teenagers, those Dre wearing plastic
headphone types who like to think they live in a land of cool and
internet worldliness, but then it features two middle-aged heroes
trying to find a job at Google so how does that compute? Pardon the
pun.

Is it aimed at confused adults then? Showing two hapless characters,
trying to connect with the modern world, creating havoc along the way,
some slapstick laughs, poking fun at our internet based lives, and
generally piling on the jibes at web nerds expense? Erm, maybe, but
then.... this movie is about as funny as root canal. 

What you get here is a headache inducing, cerebral bombing, diarrhoea
of pointless noise masquerading as "cinema" which is the aural
equivalent of a strobe light for your earholes. Not one aspect of the
dialogue herein is worth catching. I suspect that the makers just
thought that if they hit you with a blur of meaningless words, really
really quickly, you might think you saw something of unapparent
usefulness. The result being, a sensation of getting an electric
eggwhisk inserted into your brain and switched on.

I find it sad that either someone thought there was a market for this
total waste of celluloid and time, or even worse...that somewhere out
there, there actually are people who enjoy garbage like this. I guess
it may actually be the latter as we live in a world slowly descending
into mediocrity and superficiality, and here, this movie is king.

I feel embarrassed to say I saw this movie, because I know someone is
laughing somewhere after cashing in on knowing it's easy to feed pigs
anything and they will eat it. There are others though, who have more
discerning tastes.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw a pre-screening with a friend this film last night. Very painful
experience. There is "Product Placement" and a new-term I will coin
which is "Film-placement", whereby a film plot is constructed around
the need to show-off every aspect of a Product. Barely a laugh in sight
at the cinema. Cannot believe Google signed this off  they have
self-belief in spades! Things that did make a mark on me in this film:
Google provides silly hats for interns (i.e. "Noogles", porting silly
little hats complete with little propellers), coloured bicycles on
campus, relaxation pods, online advertising, online analytics, GPS
location services, oh and not forgetting free food (provided not taken
home, and a barrel of laughs intended to be associated around this
one). Oh, and some of its lecturers have to make do part-time as
strippers (where did that one come from?). I have seen many mediocre
films in my time but this is the first that I have been compelled to
"review".
<|_=00=_|>
First off, like most of you, I loved Vince Vaughn and Luke Wilson in
Wedding Crashers and like most of you, I went into The Internship
hoping for more of the same.

What I found was a very safe, very by the numbers 'under dog' story
featuring two ageing salesman trying to start over in the tragically
cool world of Google employment. 

Vince Vaughn and Luke Wilson are two veteran pitchmen who learn their
current company has just gone out of business and, in a reality only
Hollywood could create, there are no other sales jobs anywhere in the
universe! We know this because Vince spends 3 minutes using Google (not
Workopolis or Monster??) to find a new gig only to have a sudden and
unexplained epiphany that the search engine he's using to find a job IS
the job. Deep.

What follows is a stock plot about the seniors taking on a group of
outcast geek interns and teaching them to party, keep it real and -
this is new - there is more to life than computers.

The film, written by Vaughn, plays it very safe, heartwarming feel good
lessons replace well, comedy.

On the positive side, if you want to learn A LOT about the hipster,
self absorbed world of Google this film is for you. Nowhere is the mega
company joked about, ridiculed, parodied or in anyway presented as
anything other than the ideal final destination for everyone on the
planet who wants to ride silly colored bicycles and waste their lives
typing code.

Rent Dodgeball. A FUNNY Vaughn movie with the same plot.
<|_=00=_|>
To be perfectly honest, I really like Google, it's not that I am
against the brand or anything, and I even think their marketing
campaigns are very intricate and subtle...and that's exactly why I
hated this movie, it's not subtle at all.

The Internship, to sum things up, it's one of the longest infomercials
I've seen in my entire life, and badly enough is also really boring at
that; the actors do their best to make it look like an actual movie,
they even succeed in the first 15 minutes of the film, but it's when
Google takes the whole screen that everything goes down the
drain...they even go in the "Google AdWords just saved an entire
franchise" direction...

I think this is just a waste of time, if I wanted information about
Google Drive, Gmail or Google Wallet I could have googled it right? I
mean, there are youtube videos about those products, and there's a
reason why people don't just waste their spare time watching those
videos...well, now Google charged us to do it...

Oh and by the way, as a comedy it sucks big time, I did not laugh even
once...
