
What can I say? Maybe I'm just becoming a curmudgeon but I just don't
find the fact that Dory lost her parents as a child and has been
looking for them ever since very (read: at all) interesting. The movie
opens with Dory as a small child, who features in several flashbacks
thereafter. The cuteness factor of young Dory has been dialed up to 11
in a rather obvious attempt to invest the audience in Dory's plight
that much more. But, to me, it just came off as saccharine.

The movie wasn't very plausible either. Yes, I am fully aware this is a
cartoon aimed at kids. But we're expected to believe Dory, having
severe (and entirely plot-driven) memory loss somehow found her way as
a small child from California all the way to Australia all by herself.

Anyway, if I'd been able to find the basic plot interesting, I might
have forgiven the movie's list of other other implausibilities and
errors but, as it is, they just come off as irritating, and in service
of a dull story. Some example:

- An octopus (actually, a "septapus", as it's missing a tentacle; more
on that later) that can not only stay out of water indefinitely and
disguise itself as anything, but can also learn to drive a car within
seconds and drive it blind with only Dory to guide him.

- A fish tank in the kiddie section of an aquarium, where the kids are
allowed to grab the creatures within the tank. This, incidentally, is
where the octopus lost a tentacle because a kid pulled it off. And the
aquarium was totally okay with this and let the kids go on grabbing
fish. GTFOOH Pixar.

- The octopus finds himself back in the tank where kids can freely grab
them. Conveniently, he forgets he can essentially become invisible, to
force tension into the plot

- The octopus steers a stroller past milling throngs of people, none of
whom think it very remarkable.

- Whale sharks are not whales and do not eat fish. This is the most
egregious, or at least most irritating, error committed by this film.
Did Pixar not do research or did they just not care? Honestly, I find
this error shocking coming from Pixar.

- Several fish-eating animals are seen throughout this movie that are
only to happy to forget their dietary requirements: sea lions, loons,
otters, it doesn't matter. The otters are even willing to risk their
lives for this fish they don't know to help her do something about
which they have no way of knowing anything. At least in the fIrst
movie, there was some explanation given as to why pelicans and sharks
would not eat fish. Here, it's just whatever serves the plot. It just
feels lazy and cheap.

- I have a feeling echolocation doesn't work anything like it's
portrayed here, but I won't make too much of it. But, wow, did that
"whale speak" get REALLY annoying REALLY fast.

I have usually considered Pixar to feature strong characters, but after
THE GOOD DINOSAUR and this movie, I'm disappointed in how dull and/or
annoying the characters are. Dory was fine as a supporting player (and
in a better movie) but as the star, she's simply insufferable. 

Overall, I have always considered Pixar as synonymous with quality. But
no longer. It will no longer be a given that a Pixar movie is going to
be a winner.
<|_=00=_|>
Anticipated for this movie long time ago with high hope since I love
Finding Nemo but this is such a huge disappointment. The 'short-term
memory (remember-y here and there) lost' joke is getting old and at
some point become annoying. Not until half way through the movie I got
bored and wondered when the movie end. Couldn't laugh or at least
chuckle at jokes thrown in the movie and the story seems to be put in a
rush. Marlin and Nemo were also featured all the way in the movie and
they were just fine. The dynamic between three of them were still there
too however the adventures portrayed didn't really exciting and the
thrill of the journey helping Dory on her quest finding her parents
couldn't evoke emotions at all. I remembered myself laughed a lot
watching Finding Nemo and at some point in tears too but not on this
one. It's certainly not easy to be on par with a great movie with great
visual effects and story line like Finding Nemo in the first place but
at least this should have come close to it which sadly that is not the
case. Definitely disappointed
<|_=00=_|>
Finding Dory wins just one miserable star, for one reason: The
animation throughout is astonishingly realistic.

However, almost everything else about the film is a train wreck of
ocean-sized proportions. Take no notice of the reviews of the critics,
who seem to be doing everything to try and defend this horribly
misguided mess.

But how is it a mess? Here's why. The whole film just fails to give you
a reason to want to sit through all of it again. It doesn't feel like a
proper story, instead more like a series of antics and ideas thrown
into an overflowing, ugly mix. It's chaotic, too long and so stupid at
times that it has to be seen to be believed. This is easily one of
Pixar's worst.

Finding Dory's most egregious flaw as its shockingly incompetent
pacing. The film is frantic, mindless and over-concerned with shoving
in jokes and sight gags. Scenes are so rushed and so needlessly silly
that they just aren't believable. Introduced characters get little
development and are just forgettable. Will anyone really remember or
care about Hank the octopus, Destiny the whale shark or those
argumentative sea-lions in the future?

The film's strict adherence to sequel clich√©s also seriously crosses
the line. Returning plot elements, rehashed scenarios, character cameos
and overblown action scenes are all here and are never justified. In
fact, by the end of it, the entire film hasn't even justified its
existence. Furthermore, the characters suffer so much bad luck that it
eventually turns into "Planes, Trains and Automobiles" with fish.
Everything starts going wrong. Detours are constantly taken. Death is
cheated over and over. And yet, the characters constantly escape via
methods so contrived and convenient that it's impossible to take
seriously. Admittedly, it's kind of creative in places, but it's also
as predictable as you can imagine.

The climax, however, is where the film finally crashes into the ground.
It's astoundingly awful. Picture this - an octopus driving a lorry
extremely poorly and not crashing into any oncoming cars. A large group
of otters hugging each other in the middle of the road in order to stop
these cars. And finally, the same lorry being driven over a hill and
into the sea. This is the climax simplified - except that it's way, way
worse than that. It can't even describe how bad it is. It's a horribly
written climax and is jaw-droppingly nonsensical.

Why stop there? The film fails in so many other ways that you can play
bingo with its flaws. There are way too many flashbacks to Dory's
cutesy childhood. "Emotional" scenes are dull and stretched thin.
Marlin and Nemo are in it, but mean little to the plot. A scene where a
bunch of kids are touching some sea life, who are shown feeling the
constant pain, is not at all funny but uncomfortable. Several scenes,
like one with a talking clam, just feel shoved in for no reason. Many
jokes fall flat. The dialogue is stale and charmless. I could go on and
on.

The whole thing is an embarrassing atrocity. As much as I'd love to
give more stars to this movie, I feel it deserves just one. Because the
bad aspects of this movie are so bad, they essentially undo the good
ones. Yes, it's well-animated. Yes, it has some very minor charming
parts. Yes, it can be creative at times. But everything else about the
film is brainless to a damning extreme. Finding Nemo worked because it
was melancholic, tear-jerking and uplifting. It resonated with
everyone. Its sequel has almost none of what made the original a
masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never been into animation and my comments probably reflect it. Not
for any silly quibbles about real cinema versus not, kiddie versus
adult; it's simply that the real world that threads itself around us is
too marvelous and fantastical, too full of myriad possible worlds to
envision, to forego the opportunity. Okay, but this leaves me free to
observe these few things here.

It really has taken a quantum leap the last decade in trying to
replicate our world after that business with dead eyes was over. Is
there anything more extraordinary than texture and light falling a
certain way? An audience of Disney's time would have been baffled by
what kind of reality this film shows.

The most fantastical quality of reality is that I can open the door and
go wherever. The thinking mind will hold me back nine times out of ten,
but the fact that our lives play out against the possibility is behind
any life worth being lived. Spontaneity. It lies at the bottom of all
the other structures we observe around us and at the bottom of almost
every great film I know of.

Pixar's main structure in building world - and what sets them apart
from previous studios - is finding a small corner of our own world to
animate, say toys in the attic, we can then have the delight of secret
lives right under our feet. The more ordinary and familiar this corner
is, the more often we can imagine passing through it, the better. It's
the difference between Toy Story and Cars. It lets them filter in the
following way; the larger surrounding human world retains its quality
of callous indifference as we think of it ourselves, our gaze is
directed to the magical world-within where fragile beings have to
struggle with predicaments like ours. 

The primary thing to note in tandem with this is how the rest has been
engineered around spontaneous expression. Pixar are something of a
master in how things flow, how walls can be moved around to facilitate
experience. It's all about turbulent motion that zig zags over
barriers; through ocean streams, a bird flying us overhead, through
tubes inside the marine park, hijacking a truck. Things magically work
out, even when our heroes don't land in the right place, they do.

And you'll see this in the story about a narrator who continuously
forgets, has no plan about how she's going to accomplish what she wants
other than the urge to find her parents, but makes her way by rubbing
against limits of where she finds herself, spontaneously opening ways.
<|_=00=_|>
I did not enjoy this film at all. First of all, the title makes no
sense. Dory is looking for her parents, whilst Marlin and Nemo are just
chasing after her. That part is not interesting. The new characters
seemed like generic movie side characters and didn't impress me. It
does seem like Dory was faking her short term memory loss. The fact she
was looking for her family and then first met Marlin, does not work for
me. I do not recommend this film as it was disappointing and wasn't as
entertaining and appealing as Finding Nemo was. I wouldn't watch it
again and once again do not recommend this disappointing film. This is
all just my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
... rather than using a story to demonstrate dazzling CGI. This film
was just as good as its predecessor, Finding Nemo. In this film (which
takes place one year after 'Nemo'), Dory, who suffers from short term
memory loss, makes it a mission to find her parents. She helped Marlon
find Nemo in the first film and now she wants help locating her
parents. She became separated from them when she was young and until
now, has relied on others to help her find her way. She also gets by
with her unique brand of impulsiveness and quick action. Throughout the
film, Dory uses other "people's" (fishes'?) words and objects to
trigger memories that assist her in finding her way. It was very clever
how Pixar incorporated these triggers to help move the story along and
flesh out Dory's background. I also liked how they treated short term
memory loss with sensitivity and did not make it a joke. The marine
center that Dory & co. end up at is based on the excellent Monterrey
Bay Aquarium. The funniest new character added to the Nemo franchise is
Hank the octopus (except he only has seven legs as Dory points out and
refers to him as a "septapus."). Hank is cynical, but you know he's a
softy deep inside. He can also camouflage himself into his settings
which is quite comical. There are other funny characters like Becky the
buzzard and Gerald the seal with a uni-brow.

It seems that Pixar thrives on adding emotional scenes to their films
that pull at their audience's heartstrings. Finding Dory is no
exception. There is a very dramatic scene near the end of the film
where Dory is separated from her party and is lost in an unfamiliar,
dark ocean, alone. She has to rely on herself to figure out how to find
her way out and find her friends. This was a very heart wrenching
scene. I won't lie, it made me tear up and I could hear other people
sniffling in the theater. Another emotional scene is the beginning of
the film showing a baby Dory with her parents. It's not as sad though
as the beginning of Up, though.

I'd recommend this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Back to the pond for Pixar, where we find things largely unchanged from
the end of 2003's Finding Nemo. As the continually-forgetful blue tang
Dory has a sudden enduring flash of her childhood, a rush of recall,
she gathers the clownfish for one more globe-spanning adventure. The
setup is a little soft, lingering too long in the shadow of the first
film, but eventually we break free of that sentiment and forge a new
(if similar) identity for the sequel. The closed-in landscape of an
aquatic themed zoo/amusement park feels a bit claustrophobic at first
glance, but as hijinx ensue and we learn more of Dory's early years, it
all fleshes out nicely. No shortage of colorful new characters there,
literally and figuratively, not the least of which is Ed O'Neill's
escape artist "septipus" (having lost a tentacle in the touch tank),
who treads dangerously close to becoming a deus ex machina with his
versatility. O'Neill brings his usual disgruntled pessimism to the
role, though, and some genuinely clever sight gags using the creature's
natural assets go a long way to smoothing that over. He's overly
convenient, but we're always glad to see him again. Witty and
fast-paced, with a good mix of gags for the adults and their kids, plus
a potent dose of the studio's famed poignancy. I laughed, I misted up,
but I never quite fooled myself into thinking it was superior to the
first.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a really good sequel. Taking characters from the first one and
putting new ones in there as well, it never gets boring or seems to
repetitive. And you don't even have to be Dory, I mean forgetful, for
this to work for you. Yes it does make sense to watch the first one
(Finding Nemo) then, although I reckon you could watch it and enjoy it
as a standalone too.

The characters and their traits are strong and there are a lot of side
jokes built in to this too. Humans are being treated like extras and we
wouldn't have the time to deal with them anyway. That is apart from one
major voice - but it's being highlighted too as if one of the writers
or Ellen herself might have a crush there. But you can't blame them for
that. On the contrary you can congratulate everyone involved for a
really good movie
<|_=00=_|>
As we learned from Cars 2, bringing a supporting cast member - in that
case, Mater - to lead a sequel often essentially makes the side the
entree. Watching 2 hours - and wow, is this thing too long - of Dory
doing cutesy stuff and forgetting stuff becomes grindingly tedious. The
miracle of "Finding Nemo" grew out of the animators finding a way for
small fish, who are essentially prisoners of the vast and largely
featureless water, to have often land-based adventures without unduly
straining credulity. "Finding Dory" lacks the inventiveness when it
comes to working around the limitations of the aquatic by employing an
octopus who luckily doesn't need to be kept wet, who breathes are, can
drive a truck, can match any background he squishes against, and who
happens to have fine motor skills. Sure real octopi can open a jar to
get a fish out but riding a stroller like a wheelchair comes across as
a wincey bit unrealistic. The underwater seascapes drawn by the
animators are amazingly realistic and if you just turn down the sound
of the humorless and dull dialog, the movie is on whole beautiful to
look at. There's just too much of it to look at with a runtime that
features way too much swimming of small fish through pipes or
underwater paths or sunken freighters. In short, Pixar needed to spend
more resources on the script and less on the animation.
<|_=00=_|>
(There aren't many spoilers in this review)

I've seen Finding Nemo again just recently; I wouldn't say I liked it
now but I could see why a kid would. It has action, adventure, likable
characters, colorful animation, and a good plot. Unfortunately the
sequel hasn't got much of these.

A kid probably wouldn't like this film, it has mostly dialogue
throughout. When it does have action, it doesn't have any consequence
like I said earlier, so that's boring. Sure - you meet a few funny
characters along the film's journey, but they have little purpose but
to say a wise-crack joke and then offer the main character help for no
reason. The film relies on your nostalgia of Finding Nemo to like it,
the entire beginning of the movie shoves reference-after-reference into
the audiences face. The movie is very colorful, though. The music was
very underwhelming for a Pixar movie; they usually have really good
scores even if they're bad movies, not this one. The character designs
are just as cartoony as the first film, with an exception of the humans
which all look like the copy-paste designs from Inside-Out.

Whoever they got to do Nemo's voice was not a good actor, every time he
was on screen he said something overly-dramatic and bad. Albert Brooks
(Marlin) sounded like he didn't want to be in the voice- booth. Ellen
DeGeneres (Dory) did fine, but that doesn't make the character any less
annoying and repetitive. The line, "I have short- term memory loss,"
was probably said 100 times.

Finding Dory suffers what Pixar has been suffering for years now, a
badly written story. Everything that happens in the movie happens
because of coincidence, the characters actions rarely have
consequences. Pixar has been doing this in all of their recent films
and I don't know how people are still intrigued by them. The film also
has the clich√©d Pixar plot-line of having 2 unlikely companions going
on an adventure. The only Pixar movies that don't do this include: The
Incredibles, Brave, and maybe Bug's Life.

I wouldn't recommend Finding Dory; I would recommend Finding Nemo,
though.
