
An intellectual labor of love in which the director tries to recreate
the psychotherapeutic relationship between a French psychoanalyst (in
reality a Hungarian-German Jew who converted to Christianity) and a
Blackfoot Indian vet suffering from inexplicable symptoms in the late
1940s in a VA hospital in Topeka, Kansas.

Played by Benicio del Toro (who is Puerto Rican) and Mathieu Almaric
(who is half-French half-Polish Jewish), the film drags at times but
does delve into some interesting psychological (although of course it
goes *much* more seamlessly/painlessly than most analyses in reality).

Almaric's character wins over Del Toro's with his initial knowledge of
Native American cultures (actually Mojave but there are parallels to
the Blackfoot). From there he tries to synthesize his anthropological
knowledge with what seem to be a pretty standard fare of sexualized
Freudian clichés (witnessing the primal scene, explicit discussions of
vaginas (which I thought Del Toro's character spoke about far too
easily for the mores of that day and age)).

The relationship between the two men are supposed to be a life-changing
event but I felt the film fell a little short in depicting that reality
(also a film review (for which I know the director is not responsible)
described their friendship as resulting from their both being
outsiders, but Almaric's character never reveals his true background
(his lover mentions at one point the fact that he changed his name but
that is it, perhaps there were other scenes that didn't make it past
the editor (I went to the premiere in NYC with the director and main
actors and they said there are a lot of scenes that got cut)).

In the latter part of the movie there are strong hints that Jimmy's
(Del Toro's character) headaches, fits of rage and alcoholic binges are
the result of systematic sociopolitical mistreatment of native
Americans but the subject is only strongly hinted at, not really
discussed explicitly by Jimmy in any deep or meaningful way. This was
to me perhaps more interesting than the anthropological Freudianism of
the first 90 minutes of the film, but the director was trying to adhere
to a book on the subject and real-life events (psychology back then was
even more grossly unaware of psychopolitical factors compared to now).

Perhaps subtly discourages the notion that Jimmy is suffering from PTSD
(a diagnosis which did not exist at the time, but the phrase "shell
shock" is not used either) because he never saw combat or killed anyone
(he was involved in mine-clearing operations after the German retreat).
Also interesting insofar as his injury was to his head, thus perhaps
implicitly challenging the often presumed relationship nowadays in vets
between TBI (traumatic brain injury) and PTSD? (Then again the director
was following real-life events so I don't know his intentionality.)

A worthwhile film but a little odd insofar as it (to me)
underemphasizes the ethnocultural forces in the characters in favor of
a "special friendship" (in a universalized way) despite the fact that
it is the decultured nature of American psychiatry which was at the
root of doctors' inability to help Jimmy in the first place. Also
couldn't stand the way a couple of actors (thinking of Almaric and
Joseph Cross specifically) who think that acting means being as anxious
and/or intense as possible in every scene.

P.S. The film does drag a bit (114 minutes) (I'm not someone who
normally complains about "art-house" films with slower (French) pacing
either.)
<|_=00=_|>
Based on a true story, this film is a documentary fiction. A Blackfoot
Indian who has fought in France in the Second World War and had had an
accident there that let him comatose for a couple of days experiences
great behavior disorder when back I n the USA. He is treated in Topeka,
Kansas, as a veteran and they come to the conclusion that there is
nothing physiologically wrong with him and at the same time the
diagnosis that comes next, that of schizophrenia, does not accommodate
all the symptoms. The boss of this military hospital knows a French
anthropologist, trained as a psychoanalyst, in New York and he invites
him for a couple of consultations with the patient. From a couple it
will lead to a few dozens if not more, one a day for a rather long
period.

At the time psychoanalysis could only look for personal disorders at
the sexual level having to do with parents, infancy, childhood, and
then women (for men). The case concentrates on women and the patient
finds some relief in that approach. This is very interesting how the
anthropologist who is a specialist of come North American Indians, the
Mojave actually, uses his knowledge of Indian culture and one language
to build some trust between him and the Indian and on the basis of that
trust he is able to penetrate the private life and mind of the Indian.
But he does not really use the understanding of Indian culture to see
what is shown in the film but not exploited at all, the fact that the
Indians are systematically negated in their culture by all kinds of
institutions. We can see in the film the fact that this military
hospital for veterans does not have one Indian nurse or doctor able to
understand the alienation of Indians in white society. Then you have
the daughter of the Indian who is in the hands of catholic nuns for her
education. Then you could speak of the way these Indians dress in the
most white American way possible, with ties, shirts, suits, and the
girls the very same way with scarves, dresses, etc. Hair cuts are
standard north American. 

At the same time this Indian cannot get money at the post office or the
bank without a good Caucasian (not North American since the French
doctor is able to do it) signing for him. A white nurse tells the
Indian a tall tale one day in another hospital where he is supposed to
go through special tests, and she cannot in any way ignore that what
she is telling him is B.S. And even the French doctor who was called in
because he was an anthropologist who had spent two years with the
Mojave Indians, at the end, asserts that he did not help the Indian
because he was an Indian but because he was suffering. In other words
he negates his own expertise. And that is justified in his mind because
he did think his expertise was not with Indian culture (that was only a
means to build trust) but psychoanalysis. He even, early in the film,
creates some blurred situation when he advocates the typically French
godless secular philosophy to an Indian who declares himself a Catholic
though he knows about old Indian religions that he has "rejected" under
the influence of course, but not of alcohol this time. It is also
called duress.

The problem we are dealing with here is Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome
of American Indians who have been vastly exterminated, then locked up
in reservations under rules that forced them to drop their cultures,
their dances and their languages, to get educated and integrated in the
American society, language, culture and all. What is the intention of
Arnaud Desplechin? To remain as close as possible to the way the case
was treated at the time? Maybe but naïve since the audience cannot sort
out the real stake here. Yet it is surprising he does not use what has
become standard today over the last ten years. It is called the
decolonization of the mind. He only shows how the Indian mind is
colonized and never questions his psychoanalytical approach that makes
the syndrome the result of personal sexual problems.

Dr Jacques COULARDEAU
<|_=00=_|>
"Jimmy P." is an unusual film for many reasons. Although the film's
star Benicio Del Toro is a pretty hot commodity in films these days,
this Oscar-winning actor decided to take a very different sort of part
in this film. In the last year, for example, he's been in a couple HUGE
Hollywood films--"Thor: The Dark World" and the recent mega-hit
"Guardians of the Galaxy". But "Jimmy P." is a much smaller sort of
film--one with very modest pretenses and which is not exactly the sort
of film the average viewer would enjoy. My assumption is that he just
liked the role and it offered him a good chance to act without all the
special effects and eye candy of a typical film. Regardless, it is
interesting and worth a look--particularly if you are interested in the
history of psychotherapy.

When the film begins, a WWII vet, Jimmy Picard (Del Toro) has come to
the VA hospital because of the intense pain he's been feeling. However,
despite many, many tests, the doctors can find nothing physically wrong
and eventually one of them suggests his problems might have a
psychological basis. In a wise move, the psychologist at the hospital
suggests they find a psychotherapist who has a background in
anthropology so that they can address not only Jimmy's emotional
problems but see this in the context of his American Indian heritage.
In other words, perhaps there are problems specifically related to this
ethnic background. So, the hospital goes searching for such a man and
they enlist the help of a French therapist, Georges Devereaux (Mathieu
Amalric). Much of the film consists of the therapy sessions between
Devereaux and Jimmy and focuses on the insights that they learn and the
progress he makes.

As far as the history of psychotherapy goes, this is a fascinating
film. And, since I used to be a psychotherapist and teacher (teaching
psychology among other subjects), I was familiar with the analytic bent
of therapy in the 1940s and wasn't surprised at the way therapy was
portrayed in the film. Its focus on sex, repression, free association
and the like were BIG back then, though today this is not at all
typical of counseling sessions which are now much more problem-centered
and short-term in nature. Plus, today, most therapists believe that
more than just sex is behind all our emotional problems. This is NOT a
criticism at all--just an observation and to let you know that the
style of the meetings between the Jimmy and Devereaux are not at all
typical of what you'd find today. To me, this was pretty
interesting--and, yes, I know for the average person this isn't exactly
exciting stuff. What is pretty exciting, however, is the nice, gentle
sort of acting you see here. Del Toro and the rest of the cast did a
very nice job and the movie is an interesting slice of life movie. But,
unfortunately, a lot of folks probably wouldn't rush to see this sort
of realistic story as there aren't many 'exciting' portions to the
film--just a decent little story.

Finally, Benicio Del Toro is a fine actor and he did a fine job in
"Jimmy P."--but, I do wonder why the filmmakers didn't hire an actual
American Indian to play this role instead of a Puerto Rican American?
After all, there probably aren't many opportunities for members of
various American tribes to act in films and this might have been a nice
chance to give someone a chance to play the role intended for an
American Indian. While no one would ever think of having a white person
play a black in films these days, it's still surprising to see which
actors often play Asians and American Indians in films. I also noticed
that lots of supporting parts were played in Jimmy P. by American
Indians--perhaps one of them might have been cast in the lead.
<|_=00=_|>
Each of us springs from cultures that form our worldview, guide our
behavior, create our sensibilities. But non-whites, especially, are
coerced into discarding that identity and, through acculturation,
becoming someone that they really aren't, someone who, over time, can
no longer understand why they dream of a bear, a fox, and a baby and
what in the world those images mean. An early scene in Jimmy P shows a
white doctor asking Jimmy to respond to a picture he's shown of some
white demonic guy with a knife in what looks like an operating room.
Jimmy can't free associate anything from that picture. Not because he's
crazy, but because it's meaningless to him. But later he can uncover
meaning in a dream that includes a bear, a fox, and a baby. 

Over a generation or two, Jimmy has lost many connections to his own
past and cultural traditions. Although he can still sense them, he
can't interpret them as they relate to his own psychological issues.
He's broken laws that the dominant cultural doesn't regard as criminal
at all. Not understanding this, he punishes himself even though freed
by a white court of law. 

Although Thunderheart may have been more entertaining, Jimmy P is
enlightening about the psychic damage that happens when cultural and
ethnic peoples are punished for who they are and made to ape other
cultures to become accepted.
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, I'm not a movie buff nor am I an expert on the director or
anyone else involved in making this movie, I just watch movies based on
whether or not I fancy watching them.

The acting left me with a feeling of warmth towards the characters,
sure it's not a short film, and some of the scenes could probably have
been shorter, but I feel that would've taken away from the tonality.
The movie seems well written and likable, but the pacing and content
won't be everyone's 'cup of tea'. 

In short, the movie is good, it's not an action movie, there's almost
no excitement, but who would read the synopsis and think there would be
any? There's really nothing left to say about this film as far as I can
see, I'd recommend it, but not to everyone, and can't see a group of
lads sitting round with cans of lager enjoying it, it's more of a 'sit
and watch alone' type of thing.
<|_=00=_|>
This one slightly reminiscent of A Dangerous Method, but this has a lot
more to say, and frankly make the aforementioned movie now seem
extremely below par. The psychoanalysis explored here is incredibly
intriguing, and different, and makes Cronenberg's piece seem very
distracted and far less interesting, despite both being true stories.

I've liked Mathieu Amalric as soon as I saw him in Venus In Fur (still
criminally underrated as Polanski back in form) and TGBH also, and here
he lands one of the lead roles and does a fantastic job as a bit of an
eccentric but confident anthropologist. He and Benicio Del Toro were
the only reasons I watched this initially.

Del Toro is playing a war vet who suffers head trauma and is having
spells of major migraines and blindness since. Plus he is playing a
native Indian, so there are many subtle themes woven into the narrative
without shouting them at you. The main thing I took from it was how as
people from different cultures, we are at the same time very different
but also all human and more similar than we think. It also touches on
the treatment of native Indians, though it is barely there, just again
written subtly into the narrative: Because he is Indian and drinks
occasionally, all the white American doctors think he is a drunk, hence
his symptoms. One of the rare times he actually speaks to them is to
tell them "my name is Jimmy, not'chief'". He for the most part will
only talk with the anthropologist.

Del Toro nails the brain trauma victim, as I think I took more from his
character personally as he reminded me a lot of myself. People say you
are crazy, are schizophrenic, a drug-addict, when in reality you have
brain trauma. Your mind is not well. You are judged. This aspect of the
movie was done perfectly as I was able to relate with Del Toro's
character immediately, and everything about his character and his
actions were realistic and executed with finesse. It is not a fun
experience, and even less fun when you are put in a nuthouse because of
it and are surrounded by truly lost souls as you wonder "why am I
here?" Definitely one of the better films that takes place in one of
these facilities, though it has nothing on Cuckoo's Nest or Persona.

The scenes where he talks about his past were really well done too, I
was never confused as to what was a scene from the past or otherwise.
Most of that is due to Del Toro, as he plays two different characters
essentially, pre-accident and the present. He will only talk to the
anthropologist played by Amalric, as he has been asked for, despite
being a doctor with a shady reputation. But he happens to specialise in
native Indians, and his approach to psychoanalysis is interesting to
say the least. It was further intriguing to see him use more
unconventional methods  to western culture at least  and rather
focused on spiritual aspects that the native Indians believe and
practice. His respect for the religious ways of his client is admirable
and the world would be a better place if more doctors were that
open-minded.

The basic story is predictable as all hell, and I really wish the movie
inserted more conflict between the two. But there are some truly great,
emotional scenes between Del Toro and Amalric that dig deep into the
human condition, and despite their cultural differences they realise
that they are not so different. It certainly helped that the script was
well-written and filled with interesting, unconventional ideas.

This was also a fascinating look into how war vets were treated after
WWII when it came to brain injuries. It is quite haunting, especially
considering the fact treatment for people like Jimmy P. is somehow even
worse in today's world, especially with US Army propaganda proclaiming
they are 'Protecting freedom' and 'keeping us safe' - two of the
most-cringe worthy quotes constantly repeated on US television,
especially in sport, by athletes themselves, which on its own is
disturbing given how big sport is in the US. I could go on and on but I
won't, I simply thought this was a great metaphor for how army veterans
are treated if returning home maimed and disabled. The government they
thought they were serving simply does not give a toss about them, which
is the unfortunate reality.

I was waiting for this to go down an unexpected path as it winded
down.. It kinda does and kinda doesn't. But it is a true story so I
guess they stuck to the actual events. Overall a very interesting film
that, despite its flaws, tells an interesting story while also touches
on various social subjects that happened to be a part of his life and
treatment at the hospital.

3.5/5  Sorry DC, I love your work, but this one is infinitely superior
to your own take on psychoanalysis. This film has a big heart and makes
for an emotional watch.
<|_=00=_|>
The visuals in Jimmy P: Psychotherapy of a Plains Indian are almost,
almost worth the price of admission. The opening scene of the film
beautifully articulates setting and irony by showing the grassy plains
of America while Native American flute music is played in the backdrop.
It's a comforting, soft opening to a film that is erected predominately
off of complex discussion and ideology.

The film stars Benicio Del Toro in a role he clearly embraced and
enjoyed, playing Jimmy Picard, a Blackfoot Indian, who has returned
from war with seriously debilitating symptoms, most specifically, a
crippling headache. Jimmy is placed under the care of George Devereux
(Mathieu Amalric), a real-life French doctor and anthropologist, who
specializes in ethnology and psychoanalysis. The two meet together and
form a quaint bond between their lengthy discussions about Native
American history and culture, stemming from Devereux's desire to learn
about the culture, as an anthropologist often does and Jimmy's
checkered past, which involves troubled love and a teenage daughter
that another man is raising.

With the right directorial methods and smooth, engaging writing, Jimmy
P. could easily be a film that one can effortlessly sink into,
investing in its characters and learning a thing or two about
psychological methods. It just so happens that my semester of high
school psychology delved into Freudian ideas and psychoanalysis quite
extensively, both principles are based on three key ideas: the inner
conscious and unconscious act as dueling forces in the mind, the
discussion and population of defense mechanisms in order for people to
cope or estrange themselves from their past, and the idea that dreaming
means more than disjointed shows that play in your head while you
sleep.

Making a film centered around often complex and occasionally droning
material, especially when that film is about the founding days of a
division in psychology, is unbelievably challenging, so based on that,
it's surprising to say Jimmy P. succeeds as well as it does. French
director and co-writer Arnaud Desplechin (who wrote the film with Julie
Peyr and Kent Jones, respectively) does all he can to make the film as
absorbing as possible, and for the first hour or so, his efforts are
effective, as we watch Jimmy and Devereux invest in some great
conversational banter that is geared more towards cultural relativism
than it is in trying to structure cheap and expected payoffs. However,
the film runs out of gas when you realize just how stiff and frequently
dull the material gets. Perhaps it really is no fault of the trio of
writers, nor Desplechin himself, but the fact that the ideas presented
in the film are difficult to make engaging on an entertainment level.

Jimmy P: Psychotherapy of a Plains Indian works for a little while
because it's interesting to see how a significant subsector of
psychology was born by a doctor who was clearly interested in learning
about different walks of life and the makeup of cultures and people of
groups he didn't belong to. Amalric embodies the mindset of an
anthropologist/psychologist quite nicely here, effectively making for a
character we can appreciate. However, the stiffness of the film catches
up to it, with the film's discussions in its second and third act
becoming greatly long-winded and the entire project slowly running out
of steam before reaching the conclusion. Rather than rewarding and
captivating, the ending comes off a long-awaited conclusion to a film
that was so close to making a film about psychology absorbing for two
hours.

Starring: Benicio Del Toro and Mathieu Amalric. Directed by: Arnaud
Desplechin.
<|_=00=_|>
JIMMY P. is structurally a mess. Director Arnaud Desplechin is never
quite sure what he wants the film to say: whether it comments on the
status of Native Indians in postwar Amerıca; the suspicious status of
much activity going under the name of psychology; life in institutions
based on locking people up and asking questions later; or asking us to
reflect on the fine dividing line between madness and sanity.

The plot is a straightforward one: Jimmy Picard (Benicio Del Toro), a
Native Indian veteran of World War II, suffers from terrible headaches.
Confined to an institution, he comes under the care of maverick
psychologist Georges Devereux (Benicio Del Toro), who nurses Picard
back to health through a series of insistent questions while probing
deeply into his sexual past. There is only one snag: Devereux's
background is equally shady; he might or might not be a practicing
psychiatrist, and he himself undergoes therapy at the end of the film.

Shot in atmospheric colorlessness, the film recreates a world where
anyone differing from racial or psychological norms - as constructed by
whites - is automatically identified as deviant, and hence not worth
treating. It is only due to Devereux's persistence that Picard recovers
at all; and even then, the psychiatrist has to browbeat the
institution's director Dr. Menninger (Larry Pine) into agreement.

The actual process of recovery is perfunctorily handled; while the
racial themes become lost in a convoluted subplot involving Devereux's
friend Madeleine (Gina McKee), Howard Shore's musical score is
unnecessarily intrusive, its syrupy fat chords directing attention away
from Picard's soliloquy describing his mental state, almost as if
director Desplechin was under the impression that viewers could not
concentrate on words alone.

The ending is equally unsatisfactory, as we have no idea what will
happen to Picard, once released from the institution. He vows to see
his family, but the potential traumas presented by the workaday world
after such a long time spent in confinement are simply left unexplored.
In many ways JIMMY P. is something of a wasted opportunity to make a
comment on discrimination and its consequences in America's past.
<|_=00=_|>
The other reviewers already provided extensive descriptions about the
movie's plot and characters. So I will just skip it. This is a
slow-paced movie but it flows in its own pace and takes you with it.
There are some parts that you can relate to yourself, even though you
are not a traumatized veteran, that makes you go "ahhh I know the
feeling" or "It happens to me, too". I loved the way the dreams were
shown to the audience. That made the movie more interesting and fun to
watch for me. Benicio Del Toro was great as always. He adjusted himself
to the slow-pace of the movie so well that it feels so natural. And
thank God that I finally could see him at least kiss a lady in a movie.
Hallelujah! Although at times, I must admit it was hard to believe that
he was Native Indian, especially in the scenes when he is surrounded by
real Native Indians, he still pulls it so well and gives a terrific
performance, so much that you feel for him, and believe that he is in
fact a person with a soul pain. I also loved how well Mathieu Amalric
played the eccentric anthropologist although his character's
eccentricity was a bit of cliché. He still managed to make me believe
in his role. All in all, if you are not into fast-paced action movies
or movies with a surprise unexpected turn of events, but more inclined
to watch real world movies with a human touch, than you should give
this one a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
watched it cause it was on TV and I was browsing around and just wanted
to see what Benicio was up to. I knew the French guy as well cause I'm
being a girl like that so I figured its some sort of indie movie going
on. It was nothing glorious about his injury and if you didn't deal
with existential angst and having to be honest with yourself and face
the mistakes you made ... and the situations that tormented you in the
back of your mind there's no point in watching it. Nobodys perfect and
there's no way in hell that hes going to make some majestic awesome
magical choices that's going to blow your mind :)) and the end is not
all happy superlucky cause lifes not like that. you just go on living
and have more pain inflicted upon you and find ways to cope with it
like watching way too much TV or alcohol and so on..
