
Luc Besson's The Fifth Element has gained a cult following due to its
weird story and out there set designs. Now Besson is tackling another
wacky space opera type movie with Valerian and the City of a Thousand
Planets which is a graphic novel that was an inspiration for Star Wars.
Now we did have a similar scenario with John Carter as an inspiration
for multiple films receiving a modern film adaptation after many films
have been released that have taken inspiration out of it. There is the
danger of it feeling cliché despite the age of the source material, but
the result results in a gorgeous looking movie with a weak script and
characters.

Good: The main draw are the visuals and they are wonderful. The world
that is displayed looks lived in and fascinating with its technology
and alien beings. The CG is well rendered and explodes with an array of
colors. The action scenes are fun with a good dose of creativity such
as an multi-dimensional chase scene in the beginning of the movie.
Rihanna also receives what could possibly be the best scene in the
movie that is both creative and fun.

Bad: The script is the biggest detriment to this whole movie. The
attempts of humor are lame with unfunny jokes and banter that barely
warrants a laugh. The script also adds some cheesy lines that are more
eye rolling than cheeky fun. Dane DeHaan as Valerian is miscast because
I just can't believe him as this super soldier. He also puts on a tough
guy voice that is annoying. Cara Delevingne has a better character, but
she's also fairly wooden. This means there is no chemistry between them
thus making the banter ineffective. Like I mentioned earlier, the story
showing its age because other movies released since the graphic novel
has shown the same elements and pulled them off later.

Overall, this movie could've been fun. It has the visuals and the
action, but the script and characters were way too weak to match the
surreal world. It is good for a rental, but I say stick to The Fifth
Element.
<|_=00=_|>
The first thing I want to say about this movie is that the visuals are
absolutely insane! It's really a joy to watch, the aliens are extremely
well made and the first scene is just gorgeous! 

The story is predictable, but can keep you interested for most of the
time. The main problem was the way things are explained, it's like the
movie think that the viewers are not intelligent enough, and many times
I found myself saying "well that was obvious". There are some scenes
that have zero impact on the story, and they give you nothing
interesting. I really wanted to know more about this world, about the
species, but sadly that didn't happen. 

The dialog is good but nothing exiting, sometimes they say the same
stuff over and over and you may find yourself thinking "we get it, move
on", and it's really cheesy at some points. 

The acting is very good, the chemistry between Dane DeHaan and Cara
Delevingne is great, and overall all the cast delivers.

This movie wasn't something amazing as I thought it would be judging by
the trailers, but I still enjoyed it very much, the actions scenes were
great and the humor was on point most of the time. I won't recommend
this for those who look for something clever with breathtaking twists,
but for those who enjoy solid acting, nice story and amazing visuals,
this movie is definitely recommended. 

Overall 7/10 

Thanks for reading!
<|_=00=_|>
What if the Star Wars prequels had been handed over to a better
director? What if The Force Awakens and Rogue One had aimed at being
original and fun science fantasy films rather than just playing on
people's nostalgia?

This is what I found myself seeing as I was watching Valerian. A film
that made Space Opera's fun and exciting again.

I was surprised by the two leads. The trailers made it feel like we'd
be seeing a rehash of the two main leads from Ender's Game but I was
surprised at how fun and spunky (and flawed) the two characters were to
watch. The romance was not there and it did not need to be there
because this film is not a romance nor centered around a romance. 

This film is Luc Besson taking what people loved about the Fifth
Element and stretching it to the entire movie. 

And yes, it is true, it is visually the prettiest movie since Avatar.
The kids I took with me to see this film had their eyes on the screen
the whole time, no bathroom break, no water break, just a visually
mesmerizing film that never tired its audience.

My recommendation is to go see it on the bring screen to experience the
marvel of it. It's a shame it is not available in IMAX.
<|_=00=_|>
Although I too enjoy super hero movies, action movies blah blah - they
are getting tired. Good directors can get the pacing, directing and
acting so right that the same-ol story can be told while still be
entertaining. Especially in science fiction, it seems there are no
original ideas any more.

Then comes along Valerian - WOW! What a refreshing and imaginative
world they've developed and an exciting movie they've created! The
trailers truly do not do this movie justice. I watched this movie just
for Luc Besson, because the trailer made the movie look like the usual
Hollywood drivel. What I got instead was an extremely pleasing and
original story that was superbly executed.

What I love about the movie is that the plot isn't your typical sci-fi
plot. It plays like a detective story intermingled with action and
amazing visuals, culminating in a very satisfying ending that made me
yearn for sequels to learn more about the universe Besson has created.

Well done! This movie deserves to live on! Watch it in the theaters and
be thrilled!
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to like this film. I really did. As a fan of the Fifth
Element, I was expecting to find a well-developed plot, kitchy humor,
memorable characters, and over-the-top action sequences. It had the
action, but no soul. Neither of the two main characters had the acting
chops to carry a scene, even the 'witty' banter came of scripted and
flat as if Ben Stein had taken a heavy dose of lithium and stumble on
set. The story also had several faux pas, including adding characters
to advance parts of the story, only to kill them off a few minutes
later.

The characters were flat and shallow. Valerian, the title character and
the story's protagonist, was just plain not likable. He warranted no
emotional investment. Instead of holding on to my seat in the big
action sequences that threatened death and dismemberment, I felt myself
not caring whether he lived or died. Part of this was due to the fact
that he had the emotional range of a piece of plywood (think Hayden
Christensen in Star Wars). I couldn't tell if he was professing his
undying love or ordering a burger and fries at McDonalds.

----------------*Spoilers*--------------------

The main bad-guy, who is exactly who you think it is from the get- go,
also warrants no emotional investment, especially considering he spends
most of the movie is some sort of stasis. The reason to hate him is
only revealed near the end of the movie in a flashback sequence, and I
never knew enough about his character to even form an opinion about
him. When he is finally defeated, you can barely marshal a shrug,
because, once again, you just don't know enough about him to care.

Rihanna's character, who by-the-way had a beautiful introduction
sequence, is another example of this shallow character building. Our
hero finds himself needing to access an inaccessible area that only
Rihanna can provide access to. Naturally he finds himself in a
strip-club where he recruits her to help him through this, which she
does, only to have her die WITHIN MINUTES of fulfilling her end. Her
death sequence, which, judging by the musical score, was intended to be
an emotional scene, falls on the side of apathy. We never knew enough
about her character to care when/if she died. There was not enough time
to build that emotional investment.

There were many other eye-rolling moments, including a direct rip from
The Taken script and an alien who vows unrelenting vengeance only to
NEVER SHOW UP IN THE MOVIE AGAIN, but they are much too numerous to
list. All-in-all, Valerian was at best a lackluster movie experience
that fell in the same trap that many big-budget films do: rely on
over-the-top special effects to mask shoddy story telling and flat
characters. Save your money for the red-box rental.
<|_=00=_|>
Jeez. This movie. I loathe nearly everything about this film, but let's
go ahead and knock out these positives. 

Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets is visually stunning
sometimes. There is a great deal of imagination that went into the art
design here, and this definitely separates this film from the overly
saturated sci-fi sub genre. The ambition showed in the world building
of this universe is commendable, director Luc Besson really goes for it
here. The vast majority of this film is completely CGI- rendered, and
for the most part, the CGI is well done. The opening sequence that
kicks this film off is breathtaking, and while it shares similarities
to James Cameron's Avatar, there is an uniqueness to it that really
draws the audience in.

As soon as our two human protagonists come on screenwhich mind you, is
immediately after the impressive opening sequencethe film screeches to
a halt, losing every speck of momentum garnered in the first twenty
minutes.

Dane DeHaan and Cara Delevingne portray cardboard cutoutsoh, I mean
special government agents tasked with some of the universe's most
important tasks. I wish there was something good I could say about the
performances from these two. But, nearly every time DeHaan opened his
mouth to speak all, I could do was sigh. This is clearly a role meant
for a charismatic actor, the likes of someone like Chris Pratt, Tom
Cruise, or Will Smith. Instead, this film has DeHaan, who gives such an
extremely wooden performance that it is borderline painful. The
chemistry between DeHaan and Delevingne is nonexistent. The romantic
relationship between these two characters maybe could have been
believable with a different pair of actors. With these two brick walls
though? Nah. The film screeches to a halt far too many times to give
focus to unbearable romantic moments between the twomany of which hurt
me physically. 

What really rose my blood pressure here was the script. Dare I say, I
prefer the dialogue and narrative from the Transformers: The Last
Knight over what is present in this film's monstrosity of a screenplay.
This film thinks it is hilarious and charming, just like Transformers
did. This film is immensely unfunny and repulsive, just like
Transformers is. The attempts at quips and back-and-forth jokes are
insufferable, getting less funny and more amateurish as the film goes
on. DeHaan and Delevingne definitely deserve some of the blame for
this, but the godawful writing doesn't provide them much room to be
anything more than annoying. 

The plot manages to be more jumbled than anything I have seen all year.
There are whole sections of this film that have nothing to do with the
narrative set up in the opening act. This is a 2 hour and 20 minute
film that has no business being anything over 90 minutes. A whole third
of this film could be cut out, (specifically the detour that features
singer/songwriter Rihanna) and nothing about the ending would change. I
should have walked out of this movie somewhere near that 90 minute
mark, but, like Transformers, I hoped the final act would be this
film's saving grace. It wasn't.

If you spent money your hard-earned money on this film this weekend, I
truly apologize. While this is not the cinematic cancer that the
Transformers franchise continues to beValerian is a horrendously
acted, incoherently written, waste of time. 
<|_=00=_|>
I have never written a movie review in my life but I was so outraged
after taking my family and some friends to see Valerian I have decided
to try and save some other poor soul from falling for the special
effects trap. I must admit the beautiful visual effects of this movie
drew me in like the blue glow of a bug zapper.

The visual effects were stunning and the race of people central to the
plot were well crafted and engaging. But when the CGI characters
deliver more believable and emotional performances than the actors, you
know your in trouble.

Dane Dehaan is terrible. I don't think I have ever seen him before but,
he sounds like he is trying to give his best Keanu Reeves impression.
If that is his natural voice I feel for him, because it sounds forced
and at times comical.

The two leads do nothing to draw you into the story and not once did I
feel there was any chemistry between the two actors. Delevingne comes
across as an annoying B and you never find yourself hoping the two
leads will work out their differences. I simply did not care about
these people.

Slick visuals and special effects cannot carry a movie alone, you still
need dialogue, good actors to project chemistry and emotion that draw
you into the story.

I guess what I learned from this experience is not to be fooled by the
special effects and wait for week two or three before spending over
$80.

You can polish a turd all you want, in the end it's still a turd.
<|_=00=_|>
The Hollywood line-up this year doesn't provide anything remotely
interesting. So don't let a shaky story-line, unnecessary dialogue and
slightly hammy acting dissuade you from watching the most stunning
visuals since "Avatar".

Based on 60s French cult comic series "Valerian & Laureline" - mystery
to me why didn't they keep that title -, the magnificent opening
sequence sets the tone for a more esoteric approach to Sci-Fi than
"Star Wars". I won't let on about the story too much so as not to ruin
any element of surprise. Let's just say they really should have lost
the romantic chitchat. It makes the film drag at inconvenient times.
With real writers, this could have become a classic.

The draw is the eye candy and there's plenty of it. Again I cannot in
good conscience divulge any details. Again let's just say that one gets
treated to the most creative use of lemons in the history of film. I'll
have to watch it again to catch all the pop art references. Aliens were
never more beautiful, more sophisticated, more varied. And while the
Rihanna scene cannot compete with the opera scene in "5th Element",
it's the best use of a performance act in film in years.

Alas, when one thinks "5th Element", the main weaknesses of "Valerian"
stands out clearly: mediocre acting and a terrible script. Bloodless
DeHaan is the most dreadfully miscast lead since Tom Hiddleston in
"Kong: Skull Island". Why didn't they cast the likes of Theo James with
over $200 mil to burn? Cara Delevingne is cool but no Milla Jovovich -
Besson loved Jovovich for real and the camera and editing really showed
that. Delevingne's Laureline comes across as a run-of-the-mill heroine
even though she's doing a solid job. Clive Owen cannot even remotely
compare to Gary Oldman's Hitleresque splendor. Strangely enough, the
CGI aliens do the best acting and have all the memorable lines.
Besson's script-writing has always been shaky but seems to get
progressively worse.

Still, compared to this year's Hollywood fare of sequels, yet another
superhero franchise and musicals with thespians who cannot sing,
"Valerian" is infinitely more entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
The first thing you'll observe about Luc Besson's Valerian is how
gorgeous it looks, how much work went into the perfect realisation of
this world. In a time where nearly every blockbuster features tons of
CGI, Valerian stands out and highlights how cheaply the effects are
done in most of the other ones.

Next, the sheer inventiveness of designers, artists, set builders,
wardrobe and makeup - again, makes us painfully realise how
off-the-rack and dull most blockbusters are. Add to that Besson's
quirky aesthetics and you're in a world that's nearly overpowering you
with its inventiveness, its visual splendour, and also plain fun. I
mean, a movie where a Jessica Rabbit cameo doesn't feel forced or out
of place, that's just unique.

In my opinion, the optical fireworks were even a bit overdone, some
scenes were plainly set up in a certain way to make them more
spectacular but didn't really add to the story - an early on action
sequence in a half-virtual market comes to mind that would work nearly
equally well in a normal bazaar, just without some gags.

As to the story-line - lovers of the books (as I am) will recognise a
lot of ingredients and species, and the main set-piece, a space city,
is obviously taken from "L'Ambassadeurs des Ombres", but the story
itself is a new one and revolves around a planet wiped out in a war
about 30 years back, and the repercussions thereof. The "secret"
someone wants to keep is not that secret to us, in fact about half an
hour into the movie you already have a pretty good idea of what's going
on, the joy comes from the detours we're taking on the road to the
happy ending, not from silly plot twists.

Now, the characters, Valerian and Laureline: Dane DeHaan looks too
young for his part from the comics (where Valerian was the more
experienced partner, here he just has a higher degree), Cara Delevingne
is perfectly cast, standing her ground with just the right amount of
sarcasm and spunk. The team dynamics were as readers know it - Valerian
the one who tends to stick to the rules and play by book while
Laureline tends to act more impulsively - but both working together
really well, be it as a duo or solo. There is a romance angle in the
movie that was not taken from the books and feels a bit forced,
thankfully it stays marginal and doesn't lessen the overall enjoyment.

And cheers to the screenwriters (Besson, mostly) for not going full in
with the stakes. While there's some serious action here - people die
and some more might die if V&L didn't succeed - it's actually a rather
smallish plot, with just one single villain, and no worlds or even the
universe to be saved, just the lives of some innocent bystanders.

Big recommendation for all fans of colourful SciFi and optical
fireworks!
<|_=00=_|>
Adapted from Pierre Christin and Jean-Claude Mézières long-running
French sci-fi comics series Valérian And Laureline. Luc Besson creates
a stunning visual feast. Besson's attention to detail is immaculate.
And that along side the quirky dialog's between Laureline and Valerian
are what keep this film afloat. I might be in the minority, but I
prefer my films to be lengthy. However in this case, Valerian feels
overstuffed trying to add more depth to the story at every turn. This
film might have benefited from a shorter run time. The biggest surprise
was Laureline(Delevingne), her character is what kept my interest
throughout the film and her acting was actually on point. As someone
who was skeptical about her casting, I'm glad to be proved wrong. Not
saying it's her breakout performance, Just saying she's improving and
perhaps she might have a future as an actress. Everyone deserves a
second chance.

Grade: B-
