
This movie is atrocious beyond words, and the first movie from which
I've ever walked out (an hour and 17 minutes into it). The session was
full of giggling middle-aged women, wetting themselves with
anticipation - I cannot believe this book and movie has appeal. Are
women really so bored, so desperate, that this is what gets them off??
The acting was appalling - I guess that's the end of Ms Johnson & Mr
Dornan's careers. And I wouldn't be surprised if the actors who refused
the role of Christian Grey are secretly relieved they had the sense to
reject it! The script was laughable. No chemistry between the two
leads. As for the 'eroticism'.....it was completely lacking. Stilted,
awkward, poor cinematography, cheesy scripting. Just terrible. 

Do not waste your time or money with this.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't want to spoil a lot, so ill just give ratings with a brief
description on certain elements of this so-called "film".

Acting; 3/10. The acting was misplaced, awkward.. not to look at. At
least convince us you're an intense guy, Mr. Grey. 

Plot: 1/10. that wasn't a plot for a normal movie, it was a plot for
soft-core porn.. which had as terrible acting in it as real porn. 

Camera work/scenery/etc. 7/10 for what it is.. great camera work i
guess and good scenery

Romance; 2/10. I've seen the notebook... that's romance. This is a poor
attempt to romance. It tries to tell you they're madly in love, but
it's just a weird sexual relationship.

Drama: 1/10. there is no thrill.. no intense things going on. There is
no drama in this soft-core-erotic-drama. 

"The deeds" 10/10.. they did it. so.. can't give it any lower points
than this. 

Overall, it's was horrible acted, plot-less, non-romantic nor drama
movie about a girl being horny and the guy doing an attempt of BDSM,
which comes down to.. soft-core.. almost nothing different than normal
sex with bondage.. boring sh*t. 

on that note, go watch the kings man; secret service. that's one of the
best action movies i've seen in a while!
<|_=00=_|>
Okay. So I have not read the book, (being a male), and I went with one
of my female friends who HAD read the book, (and she said she had
enjoyed it) -- although having said that, she had read it a number of
years ago. 

We paid our money and we took our seats. The film began; and I have to
say that the wooden acting, the cruddy screenplay, the corny dialogue,
the ridiculous script, the highly improbable storyline, were all just
TOO much for us! (And not just us it seems! As we could hear titters
from the audience at large as well coming from dialogue within the
story that were supposed to be serious scenes -- so not just us I
hasten to add)...

We gave it half an hour and then I leaned over to my friend and said
"Do you think there's any chance they will give us our money back??
What do you think to it?" -- and thank God she replied, "Oh thank
Heavens you said that; I can't stand it another minute! Lets just get
outta here!!!!!!! It's just terrible".

We got our money back. We complained it was nothing like the book and
that we demanded a refund as had only seen half an hour of the movie,
and hey presto they refunded my credit card! No questions asked! 

I give this rubbish 1 star; and that was for the pretty outdoor
scenery! 

Don't waste your time with it -- it is Hollywood at it's worst.
<|_=00=_|>
Sorry but I can't get over Jamie Doran.. I mean he comes from playing a
serial killer in the Fall (who tied up women and murdered them) to ..
Well. 20 mins of sex. The movie is boring and predictable. The fine
line between abuse and pleasure is so thin it's almost non- existent.
Lacks any of the raunch or controversy promised, and is instead
tiresome, banal and as thinly plotted as a porn. I haven't read the
book.. and I have to say I didn't finish the movie. I don't think i
missed much by leaving 20 mins early, but it was just boring. If a man
had written the book he would probably have been jailed. Its beyond
understanding what people see in the book/movie. Unless all the women I
know are telling me lies and secretly want to be tied up and abused by
a perverted man.
<|_=00=_|>
I was in the mood for a great film about a young girl who meets a
successful and seductive businessman with sexy results. This was not
the case. This film was purely awful. No one can blame me for not being
in the right frame of mind for the cinema, as some reviewers are. They
see a film and end up having a bad night and they put the entire blame
on the film, this is not the case for me. I was in a positive frame of
mind, and really in the mood to see what I thought would be a somewhat
good if not better than mediocre film.

This film is about two people who have no chemistry "falling" for each
other. "Falling" like off a three story balcony leaving you without the
use of your legs for the rest of your life. I'm just going to be blunt.
This film is about GLORIFYING DOMESTIC VIOLENCE and a little girl in
over her head who tolerates it. The man in the relationship, Chris, in
a career-ending performance portrayed by Jamie Doormat, is a
control-freak who must be in control in everything he does, including
the life of his BDSM buddy, Ana.

Not only does he creep onto her, HE BEATS HER, non-consensually while
they have intercourse, he stalks her, HE INTIMIDATES HER and he shows
no love for her. If this were any other film, he would be the
antagonist. If you're in the mood for a movie that shows what true love
is, I suggest you see Mrs. Doubtfire, as that film is about a loving
family man who shows his dedication and support to his wife, even after
they are separated, and his children, by dressing up as an elderly
female babysitter. 

50 Shades of Brown gets 1/10 stars from me as I am unable to give A BIG
FAT ZERO.
<|_=00=_|>
You simply can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear. The book was
unquestionably the worst piece of writing I'd ever encountered, so what
the hell were they thinking in making this rubbish? Apart from the
tedium of the plod (read plot), the script is cobbled together with
hollow dialogue, countless use of retch-inducing signifiers and clich√©,
a complete lack of chemistry between the characters and predictable
scenarios and outcomes at every turn. I got the feeling throughout the
film that both these actors were desperate to get off the set, go home
(but certainly to separate houses), drown their shared humiliation with
a stiff drink or ten, and set fire to their contracts. Woeful book.
Woeful film. Don't waste your money on this drivel. There are Fifty
Reasons to STAY AWAY.
<|_=00=_|>
The only reason this movie gets two stars out of me is that, thanks to
this mediocre effort, I'll be able to remind my girlfriend of what I
put up with for her the next time I get to choose on movie night and I
suggest a cheesy 80s comedy like "Weird Science" or "The Naked Gun". I
don't really need to go into all of the details here because there are
more than enough detailed descriptions of this thing to spare me the
effort of doing so and to spare you reading the same thing over more
times than necessary. Instead, I'll just go ahead and throw my lot in
with the "haters", as the fans seem to be labelling us here.

What I will add because I haven't read it yet so far, and what I think
should be an important point for perspective, is that every last "10
out of 10" reviewer I clicked on was a newly created account with only
this film having been reviewed. I've been around here long enough to
know that's always suspicious. I won't blatantly accuse them of being
involved in the film's production or of being friends of those who
were, but these new members sure are mighty keen on this rather sub-par
film. You've been warned.
<|_=00=_|>
First off the leads are just terrible. Worst picks possible. Plain as
day and THE worst actors. No wonder wring leads were chosen. Look at
the sorry excuse for "producers" chosen, the author became an
egotistical sellout and director and screenwriter don't know what they
are doing. Luke Grimes as Elliott & Rita Ora as Mia were also horribly
miscast. The two "leads" acting are so atrocious it turned this into a
comedy. They have no sex appeal and zero chemistry. It's like seeing
two dry pieces of wood put together and forced to be romantic. Dornan's
acting and delivery of lines is so horrid it makes me cringe. Dakota's
attempts at trying to be sexy and vulnerable fall way flat. This needed
to be put into better hands. People who could have taken a poorly
written book and actually made something better out if it. Even though
book is just corny erotic Twilight fan fiction, i mean, the "author"
did not even bother to hide it. Each character is a clear and direct
rip off if every Twilight character. Terrible in every way. The
soundtrack is only good thing about this and you don't even have to
like books or crap film to love it. I recommend buy the soundtrack and
don't waste your money on this waste of film. The only ones who will
watch and only ones who will give thumbs down are psycho cult fans.
Ones who still live in parent's basements. And would not know good
literature or a good love story if it were in their face. Books are
crap and world don't need sequels. One turd is enough.
<|_=00=_|>
"Fifty Shades of Grey" is based on a badly written book, so why someone
thought they could make a decent film out of it is beyond me. Actually
I don't think anyone believed they could make a good film, the
producers just wanted the money that would come in from all people who
for reasons known only to themselves read the book.

I had a free ticket and I had to go in order to do a story on it.
Bottom line, I'm not doing a story on it.

Okay, here's the problem, and this is what breaks my heart. We no
longer know what good or great is. I am no follower of Ayn Rand, but in
The Fountainhead, she predicted the rise of mediocrity, mediocrity
being considered great and the norm we shoot for. It only stands to
reason that at this point, some things can't even rise to that sad
level. This isn't mediocre, it's pathetic. I can't believe there are
people complimenting the actors. But then I can, because they have come
to accept mediocrity. Something I fight against with all my heart.

There is one other problem. The book sucked; in order to like it, one
had to use his or her imagination. The success of this book lay in the
fantasy aspect. Sometimes imagination is more powerful than just about
anything and can give you an erotic experience. This film doesn't
fulfill the most inane imagination, let alone someone who really has a
wild and creative one. The only fantasy it can give you is how fast you
can get out of the theater.

There were people around me laughing. The ones who weren't left, and
from what I found out in the lobby, actually demanded and got their
money back. When was the last time you saw people leaving a movie in
the middle? I'm not sure I've ever seen it, and I'll guess I've been
going to movies longer than a lot of you.

I lament the loss of artistic soul, of creativity, of going for the
best. I miss the days when Billy Wilder was a writer and a filmmaker.
What are we left with but a horrible book written on a first grade
level and the resulting bad movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Another sad movie with a generic plot with the Mary Sue / Gary Sue
relationship. A relationship so horrid that it reaches a limit when
rape is involved. This book turned movie is a mere reminder that
'Hollywood' will create anything without investigating the rather
obvious 'unusual behavior' -- which, lets be honest here, isn't unusual
until you put a married man and a girl who cannot bite her lip for the
life of her in the same room. It is more than evident there is no
chemistry on set, and off set. Jamie, you could have done so much
better. Dakota, no, just no. Thank you, EL for your horrible outlook on
BDSM and your plagiarized mistake of a 'book'. You truly have given
writers everywhere a reason to wish they'd never written, and a reason
as to why actors never wish to take part in anything that relates to
this horrible mess of a movie.
