
Terry Gilliam has never found it easy to make one of his downright
weird films. Studio interference has almost invariably led to project
delays, postponements, and outright cancellations, with his final cuts
emerging bruised, bloodied and - more often than not - broken.
Interestingly, The Zero Theorem suffers from next to none of the
scuttlebutt that usually accompanies a Gilliam film. Instead, this
dense, complex, thought- provoking odyssey of human existence and
(un)happiness feels like pure Gilliam: odd, uncompromising, but - at
its best - almost breathtakingly brilliant.

In some not-so-distant, sparkly-bright dystopian future, brilliant and
determinedly solitary mathematician Qohen Leth (Christoph Waltz)
suffers through the tiny indignities of daily life. He's forced to
leave the burnt-out church he calls home to report for work, where he
crunches numbers for his clueless immediate supervisor Joby (David
Thewlis). But all he wants is to stay close to his telephone, waiting
for a call he believes will help him unravel the mysteries of the
universe and his existence.

When mysterious head honcho Management (a silver-haired Matt Damon)
finally gives him leave to work from home, Qohen is assigned the
impossible Zero Theorem, a mathematical conundrum that has defeated
many a mathematician before him. To keep him from going completely
around the bend, Management sends him company in the form of Bainsley
(MÃ©lanie Thierry), a nubile young woman with whom he forges an
unexpected emotional connection; and Management's own genius teenage
son Bob (Lucas Hedges).

If you're looking for a plot that makes sense and progresses in logical
fashion, The Zero Theorem is not the film for you. In Gilliam's movie,
based on a loopy, mind-bending script by Pat Rushin, plot points are
more often than not metaphors for the human condition. The script can
be simultaneously literal and obtuse: Qohen lives in a hollowed-out
church, a blindingly obvious symbol of the fading of traditional
religion; he's waiting for a call - read: calling - that will free him
from the humdrum banalities of a worker-bee's life.

But that's also where the film's genius lies. It's an explosion of
philosophical ideas, asking deep, difficult questions about happiness,
humanity and hubris - often in the same scene. Few films and
film-makers would dare to so boldly confront existential issues on this
scale and to this depth. The titular Zero Theorem, after all, requires
Qohen to prove that everything is nothing: that the entire universe,
filled with people, ultimately has no meaning. Qohen's strange,
isolated journey hints at some answers, but not anywhere near all of
them.

Gilliam could easily have failed on two counts: the seemingly
stereotypical blonde love interest; and the annoyingly precocious
teenage boy. But, within these archetypes, The Zero Theorem finds
something fascinating to say. Bainsley starts out as a ditzy blonde
dream girl, but winds up offering Qohen plenty of soul and an elusive,
transient kind of eternity. Bob, too, is a whip-smart delight, a child
more in tune with the silent beats and rhythms of the universe than any
number of people older and purportedly wiser than him.

The film would fail catastrophically without a leading man capable of
handling the tragedy and comedy of Qohen Leth - a character who, in
habitually referring to himself using the royal 'we' , is a metaphor
for every human being that has ever been and will ever be. Waltz is
more than up to the task. He is hilariously effective when called upon
to wriggle into a skin-tight virtual-reality costume, and devastatingly
heartbreaking in the moment when Qohen refuses a chance at freedom and
happiness to stay locked into the dark, nihilistic world in which he
lives. 

There are also a pair of wonderful supporting turns - slightly larger
than cameos - from Damon and Tilda Swinton. The former clearly enjoyed
his time working on The Brothers Grimm, one of Gilliam's most
disastrous on-set experiences, and here, he provides a grim, mysterious
counterpoint to Waltz's Cohen - the latter only appears to be
impenetrable and tough to crack. Swinton, meanwhile, is a hoot as Dr.
Shrink-Rom, Qohen's at-home, virtual psychiatrist, fumbling through
their sessions with tons of blustery, false cheer.

Perhaps most astounding of all is the fact that Gilliam made a film
that looks so good - in its inventive, kitschy way - on a shoestring
budget of US$8.5 million. That's pocket change for most Hollywood
films, and there's no doubt that everyone involved took a huge pay-cut
to make The Zero Theorem look as great as it does. The special effects
are mostly wonderful, and the neon-coloured world through which the
black-clad Qohen stalks practically bursts at the seams with detail and
imagination.

The Zero Theorem is emphatically not a film that will appeal to
everyone. There are those who will find themselves incredibly annoyed
by its philosophical navel-gazing, and others who might find Qohen's
entire journey pointless and irredeemably self-involved. But, when it
comes down to it, it's hard to deny the weird, wacky power of Gilliam's
movie. The Zero Theorem so bravely grapples with big ideas and
complicated metaphors that it's hard not to admire the director's great
courage and even greater ambition.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not very fond of reviews so i will be quick.

I love his movies. Brazil, Bandits, Munchhausen. They represent
wonderful memories from my childhood. These are special movies. Not
that I don't like the 12 Monkeys and the others, I love them. But those
are special. Dream injections in VHS format they were.

The Zero Theorem? I really liked it. It felt like one of the special
ones. Very little CGI, beautiful sets, great actors, crooked angles and
a compelling story. I think most people will relate to the main
character and his very explicit dilemmas. It is a satire of the world
we live in today, as Brazil was back in the 80's. In many aspects they
are very similar.

If you are a fan, watch it. You'll not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Christoph Waltz plays a troubled man in an oppressive, apparently
pointless job in his corporate cubicle. As you'd expect from Gilliam,
he explores this not with a bleak gray background, but a garish
cartoony near-future world full of madness and humour. I suspect this
choice won't be for everyone, as the first hour of the film is slightly
over-the-top, particularly David Thewliss's David Brent-like supervisor
- though it's always entertaining. But by anchoring the film on Waltz,
who is able to show a mannered but more serious side than his Tarantino
roles, Gilliam gains unexpected levels of gravitas as he explores
themes of isolation in a connected world, constant surveillance and
feelings of doom. This can be filed next to Brazil in tone, and is
highly recommended for Gilliam fans as his most successful film for
many years.
<|_=00=_|>
I seem to have an accidental tradition of seeing new Terry Gilliam at
film festivals. Four years ago, I saw The Imaginarium of Doctor
Parnassus at the Munich Film Festival which had an intro and Q&A by
Gilliam, my first time seeing one of my favourite directors in person.
It was quite a treat. This time at the London Film Festival I didn't go
to the screening he attended, but it goes for any film that you see at
a festival that the excited atmosphere enhances the experience.
Parnassus held up on DVD and I'm sure The Zero Theorem will too,
securing my opinion that he can make at least one great film a decade
(since the 70s). Personally, I'm a big fan of Gilliam's bizarre chaotic
style, it never fails for me, and this is his best use of it since the
wonderfully disorientating Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.

Although the outside world can seem more like Ron Howard's vision of
The Grinch, as many have complained they didn't buy the retro-world
Gilliam created here, I loved the immaculate production design and
especially the visual effects for the scenes where our protagonist,
Qohen, is trying to solve the theorem in video game-like scenes. This
is probably his most on- the-nose existentialistic film yet given its
direct and ambitious plot- line, but it's very cleverly and often
emotionally done. It's like the incredibly profound reverend speech in
Synecdoche, New York expanded to 2 hours about each of our individual
purposes in life and how that search of meaning affects our lives. Both
Zero and Synecdoche thrive off that irony and they're both brilliantly
executed, Zero perhaps not having quite a punch in the gut effect. 

I loved Christoph Waltz in Inglourious Basterds and quite liked him in
Django Unchained, premature second Oscar be damned, but otherwise I'd
only seen him in Carnage and I'm still not too confident what he can do
in a non-Tarantino film. It wasn't until watching The Zero Theorem
where I realised how I'd never seen him play such an emotional
character, even if he is very reserved for the most part until a sexual
awakening. Unfortunately, his performance feels inconsistent. Sometimes
he absolutely nails poignant character-defining scenes and reaches
heights of Basterds, albeit at the other end of the scale. Other times,
he feels awkward, over- rehearsed and not in the moment. It's quite
strange and rather frustrating because his good bits are so good.

Perhaps it's mainly due to the writing as its mainly the attempts at
slapstick that falter. The script has a running character quirk where
he refers to himself as "we" or "us" as opposed to "me" or "I" and it's
rather confusing as to what it means and puts an unnecessary barrier
between us and Qohen when it could be incredibly easy for us to
empathise with him. The side characters more than make up for his
lopsided parts though. At first they can feel like one- dimensional gag
characters, but slowly they develop in an intriguing and welcome way,
especially Melanie Thierry and Lucas Hedges' characters. While many of
the film's jokes don't really land, David Thewlis is one of the best
comedic relief characters in a while and he undeniably has the best
lines. Damon and Swinton make delightful appearances too.

Along with its existentialism, it has a fascinating theme of sex in the
21st Century with the influence of internet. Thierry's character is a
paid tease, 'you can look but you can't touch,' though she has a heart,
a good one. But you still can't touch. It certainly hits a nerve for
these 'more connected than ever yet more disconnected than ever' times.
I would give anything to have the virtual paradise the film offers from
Qohen's suit in the poster. The film attempts to have 1984-like themes
of government surveillance which aren't as interesting but fortunately
after Brazil, it feels like Gilliam's style rather than an NSA
reference. Although the first act struggles in tone, it certainly
builds to something very rewarding. The Zero Theorem won't be for
everyone, but it at the very least offers an interesting answer to the
big question, what is the meaning of my life?

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I must state that I've been following Terry Gilliam since
the 1990s and that I have seen all of his films in retrospect. Most of
them I liked instantly, some required multiple viewings to completely
grasp but some were quite disappointing though. In my humble opinion,
ever since 'The Fisher King' every new Gilliam film was either better
or at least on par with the previous (with the exception of 'The
Brothers Grimm' which was a dud). Having said all of that, I feel as if
I still just wasn't prepared for 'The Zero Theorem'.

I usually don't make decisions about films to watch based on reviews
(especially when it's a film by an author I admire), but I've read some
very negative reviews on this one. What most of them had in common was
that 'The Zero Theorem' was a shallow copy of 'Brazil' and/or 'Blade
Runner'. Honestly, after seeing the film I think such superficial
remarks are as fair as calling 'Saving Private Ryan' "a shallow copy of
'The Dirty Dozen'".

Although set in the future, 'The Zero Theorem' is a subtle but harsh
critique of modern society much like the two aforementioned films it
supposedly "copies", but it covers a completely different main subject.
While 'Brazil' was a satire focused on a struggle between a small man
and the bureaucracy, 'The Zero Theorem' touches much wider ground and
asks some more important questions: Who are we? Why are we here? What
is our purpose? What's great about 'The Zero Theorem' is that it
refrains from answering and lets the viewers find the answers
themselves, and as such it not only succeeds to convey the message that
life is too short to waste on waiting for some divine call but also
touches on the very meaning of our existence more than any film I have
ever seen.

On the technical side, the film is beautifully crafted, astonishingly
decorated, marvelously acted and masterfully directed. This is a work
of a great author in his prime and had it been made earlier in
Gilliam's career it would have no doubt been remembered as his defining
masterpiece. Almost thirty years after 'Brazil' it draws inevitable
comparisons and is unfortunately labeled as lesser by people who
obviously and sadly miss its complete point.

It is hard to judge 'The Zero Theorem' just as a film, because it is so
much more than just a moving picture. Seeing it only for entertainment
will most certainly leave the viewer dissatisfied. Watching it as an
art form but also a philosophic treatise, it becomes some sort of a
Nietzschean abyss staring back at you: it is deeper than imaginable but
a fully cathartic experience as such.

A full and perfect 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Too bad movies like this don't get a bigger budget, specially to
enhance the special effects and futuristic scenarios, but that really
doesn't matter when you are a creative genius like Gilliam, he does a
great job with what he is given. This movie has great resemblance to
his other retro futuristic movie Brazil, which combines retro and
futuristic images and elements in a Dystopian chaotic Orwellian future.

Here we struggle with the main character (wonderful played by Christoph
Waltz) and his meaningless solitary existence hoping to get an answer
by a higher power of what life is all about.

So can the hero find out the meaning of life or the absence of it? and
will he be willing to sacrifice his potential joy and happiness in
order to get that mysterious call. Well you will be the judge.

If you like this movie I also recommend PI by Aronofsky, Brazil, Blade
runner, 1984, THX1138 among other great ones. Hopefully this movie will
become a cult classic and show new directors that they don't require
100+ million dollars to make good sci-fi movies. Thanks and cheers to
Gilliam for sticking for what he believes in and daring to tackle
difficult philosophical questions and having that original fingerprint
he stamps in all his great movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Terry Gilliam is back with one of his better films in recent years.
It's also one of his more philosophical films, as it grapples with many
deep questions, including the meaning of life itself. Gilliam calls
"The Zero Theorem" the third instalment in his dystopian satire
trilogy, which began with "Brazil" in 1985 and was followed by "Twelve
Monkeys" in 1995.

"The Zero Theorem" follows the story of Qohen Leth, a number-crunching
programmer at a large corporation called Mancom. While struggling with
life in general, Qohen is given the job of solving the zero theorem, a
mysterious mathematical equation that continually eludes his grasp. The
task is complicated by some new personal relationships when he meets
Bainsley, a tempting Internet stripper, and Bob, the 15 year old,
genius son of the CEO of Mancom. Have they entered his life to help
Qohen, or are they merely unnecessary distractions from his work? Qohen
is often unsure about the answer to that question.

The world of the film resembles that of Gilliam's previous two
dystopian satires, but this is its own film and it deals with some new
themes and conflicts. I'd say the themes and questions are even deeper
here, because Gilliam is struggling with the meaning of life itself.
Anyway, it all works and leads to an intriguing and visually engaging
story. "The Zero Theorem" gets a big thumbs up from me. You should
definitely check out this one, especially if you're a fan of Gilliam's
earlier work.
<|_=00=_|>
i thought they didn't make movies like that anymore - visually wild and
beautiful, very confusing and crazy, deeply humane, with love passing
by and forever leaving its mark on everyone.

i just now thought that i feel in a similar way when reading some of
brother strugatsky's books: the strangling system machine, the human
pawns in somebody's heartless game, the desperate search for meaning of
life, the dangerously feeble spark of love.

i was attracted by the visuals of this movie, but almost gave up after
about 40th minute - it was all too confusing, a crazy circus of
unexplainable characters and chatter. at some point though, i started
to see more clearly what is happening and all started making much more
sense, to the extent that i got hooked.

i don't remember much of Terry Gilliam's Brazil, but i have the feeling
the two movies were very close in concept and realization.

not much of a review, i know, but i'm still under the impressions of
this movie and really, if any of the above makes any sense to you - go
watch it, you will enjoy it :)

10 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
There's a black hole swirling at the bottom of Qohen Leth's (Christoph
Waltz) soul. He's waiting for a phone call from God, explaining the
point of it all. Because at the moment it seems like existence is an
erroneous quirk in the cosmic standard of nothingness. Everything will
return to nothing, so why make something of life? Love, in the form of
romance (Melanie Thierry as Bainsley), friendship (David Thewlis), and
parenthood (Lucas Hedges) provides Qohen with the answers, but he's too
absorbed in his work on the "Zero Theorem" to accept it.

There are elements of David Cronenberg's Cosmopolis in Qohen's
philosophical quest, in the oddball characters he meets along the way,
and his perennial absence of feeling. And in the Zen imagery of a nude
Waltz spiralling through the void, there's a bit of Darren Aronofsky's
The Fountain. Both of those films were more coherent and emotionally
engaging than The Zero Theorem, although Terry Gilliam's film grows on
you, once you accept that it's not Brazil Part II. There are definite
touches of Gilliam's 1985 masterpiece here, particularly the awkward
marrying of archaic and ultra-modern technologies. But don't expect a
script of Tom Stoppard wit, swerve, and clarity.

Waltz is a fantastic presence Â which is necessary, because most of the
story plays out in his home: an echochamber of a converted church,
whose baptismal font now serves as a washing up bowl. We see him at
work, attempting to order the universe via a 3D game block game,
fighting against entropy; against the inevitable demise of conscious
matter and with it the question: What does it all mean? The problem is,
he's waiting for an answer. The very point is uncertainty, the
propulsive force of our species.

Whether all this makes for a particularly cinematic experience, I'm not
sure. The Cronenberg and Aronofsky films I mentioned were successful
because, for all their vast questions, their focus was narrow and their
plots simple. The Zero Theorem is at its best when at its least manic Â
perhaps, its least 'Gilliam-esque' Â lost in the quiet intimacy between
Qohen and Bainsley. Like Wes Anderson's latest, this feels like the
film of an auteur fighting against two opposing impulses. The results,
particularly when seen as a straightforward study of depression, are
interesting, if not entirely successful.
<|_=00=_|>
This is Gilliam at his most aggressively, satirically metaphysical.
clearly enjoying pushing buttons in our brain.. and if you resist, you
will suffer. Clearly an answer to the big no-brainer sci-fi films of
the past few years. I've seen it claimed above that it relies on its
visuals over any substance, well that's simply not true... the depth is
there in spades.. you just have to dig for it yourself.. Notions of
religion, Love, Friendship, Perceptions and Belief are toyed with in
many guises. The interactions between Qohen, a socially awkward lost
soul with the other (equally lost, but faking it really well until the
end)characters is poetic and believable. - And the fact that nothing
seems to resolve in the end is clearly a massive point of the
narrative;and,personally,I would have been quite disappointed in any
other ending.

Its not Brazil.. but nothing is... Gilliam always provokes thought and
surely that's a good thing.
