
If you stopped for an hour and dissected this film you WILL find
problems, like how the audience is meant to root for borderline
sociopathic criminals or how the structure isn't what they're used
to... HOWEVER, if you go in just expecting to be entertained and if you
have a particular fondness for hustle movies, this is one enjoyable
movie. The charming but not over-the-top humour consistently keeps the
story entertaining and by not following the usual structure of a movie
this kind, and ultimately the one the trailer promised, it offers
something new to the mix. I can see the multiple twists as a turn off
for some expecting a deeper film but if you know what you're in for I
think the multiple twists in the film's final act will
one-after-another bring a smile to your face and even have you
laughing. Will Smith harnesses his charm to success in this flick and
Margot has effectively proved herself as not being a one-hit-wonder.
This is not a bad film, though I do believe your enjoyment hinges on
your expectations when going into it. Don't expect the next Ocean's 11,
expect a charming, funny, well acted, smartly written, hustle movie
that will undoubtedly be drowned out by mixed reviews from people
expecting gold and can't appreciate really good silver.
<|_=00=_|>
The title "Focus" had potential among the quantitatively declining Con-
Artist genre. Although brilliantly centered and set up with a decent
cast and setting - the execution of intelligent criminal activity was
poor and often justifying or explaining trickery and illusion as "he's
just so good at it." - failing to satisfy the audience with an insight
into the brilliance that is a con-centered plan. 

I love heist movies. I love intricate con movies. I love crime movies
and I'm sad to say this doesn't really come close to fitting anywhere
between those genres best and brightest. Instead you're left feeling
slightly amused, slightly tired, slightly relieved that it's over but
kind of happy you saw it anyway - I dread to think how badly this movie
would have been were it not for will smith.
<|_=00=_|>
Focus is a con movie and it's at its best when it's trying to con you
into believing you know what is going to happen. The plot unfolds at a
steady pace and you are left guessing what is going to follow. There
are many twists and it's hard to keep up, as you would expect. 

The regular cons work best in the first half, when the movie is trying
to be fun and entertaining. During the second half of the movie the
plot deepens and works around character development. That's when Will
Smith and Margot Robbie come to life, they are at their best when they
are given more to work with and they keep the movie interesting.
However the movie gets caught juggling too many cons which by the end
of the movie may feel just a bit flat; but still make for an unexpected
and enjoyable finale. 

Definitely worth watching. PS. The directors did a good job showing the
importance of FOCUS in keeping the camera Focused at the right place.
<|_=00=_|>
The Will Smith redemption movie, Focus, was a bit of a step up from
After Earth. He could honestly only go up following After Earth. 

Focus is a better movie than I anticipated, actually that's a lie.
Despite the cast my expectations were low, so I was pleasantly
surprised that it wasn't much of a stinker. The movie is entertaining,
the story is somewhat interesting, but - of course there is a but - it
could have been much better.

My main problem with Focus is that I wasn't engaged in the story, it
wasn't because it's poorly written, it's not. I walked into the movie
theater knowing that it was about con-artists - the marketing never hid
it, if you've seen the trailer you know this. Anyway, knowing that it
was about con artists and the tag-line is "Never loose Focus" I never
really let my guard down and I didn't let myself believe what I was
seeing. I was busy trying to figure out what the con was before it
happened and that's where the movie kind of disappoint.

They did not play on the fact that the audience may be looking for
clues as to what is going on. There are no real clues for the audience
to find, there are very little things for you to think back on and say
"That's right I saw that." They either show how it or explain it once
it already happened. So if you're like me, looking for bread crumbs for
you to figure out the con Focus hardly leaves any. I only got sucked
into one scene and totally believed what they fed me for a little
while. But much later when the big twist came I wasn't shock or
surprised.

I probably would have had a better experience of the film if there were
hidden clues leading up to the cons or if there was one character, who
wasn't a con artist, that I could have trusted allowing me to let my
guard down and get conned.

The leads, Will Smith and Margot Robbie, work well on screen. Will
Smith is not his usual happy, upbeat, self in this movie but it suits
the character. As for Margot Robbie, she plays the sex symbol cliché
well without letting herself get trapped by it. She's more than a dumb,
interchangeable pin up, she showed it in The Wolf Of Wall Street and
also in interviews you quickly get that she knows how and when to wield
the power than she has. She's talented and it shows in the movie. 

Focus is a decent movie, it lacks refinement but it's entertaining,
Smith is slowly getting back on top after the stinker that After Earth
was.
<|_=00=_|>
No one had heard of Margot Robbie until 'The Wolf of Wall Street' came
about. Now, it seems that every Director wants her in their film. How
could they not; when she enthralled audiences everywhere with an
exceedingly rare female role in a film. A character that is determined
and strong willed. Don't get me wrong Robbie is entitled to further
roles, I just cannot shake off the feeling that the Directors pulled
off a con involving her, so that she could become the female lead in
'Focus'. It should be noted that never has a title had less relevance
for a feature film. Because if anything the majority of this film is
out of focus and you can include the script in that statement as well.

It's not all bad though. The first thirty minutes is entertaining.
However, I mean this in a, if you leave your brain at home way. Don't
think too much and you may have a blast, but that's only if you never
use your brain during a film. If you do, then there's the door, I
suggest you walk through it.

Nicky is a con artist played blandly yet again by Will Smith, who has
only ever been well cast in a film once  'Men in Black'. He takes up
Jess played by Margot Robbie mustering her acting talent and trying as
hard as she did in 'The Wolf of Wall Street' to impress. She becomes
his protégé, con artist and lover. They try to become romantically
involved and it does not work out. Nicky eventually tracks her down to
win back her affection and talent as a con artist.

Unfortunately, cracks in the film appear frequently, too large to brush
aside and ignore. Consider the opening scene where Nicky tries to bed
Jess. It works to his advantage and all of it happens according to his
plan. But, we as an audience do not buy it. He barely knows the girl
and not five minutes of chit chat has taken place, when they decide to
get down to business. I know he is Will Smith and all. I'm sure he has
women falling at his feet. But this seems rather far-fetched.
Especially when this love turns out to be more than a one night stand
and they are fully fledged romantically. The decisions that they
partake seem rash, perhaps it was this lack of character development
that led me to become distanced from the film in the process.

The script thinks it's very clever and is far too cock sure. This
brings to mind another film about deception, trickery and cons. That
made no sense at all in the slightest and was all too lacking when it
came to character motivation and plausibility. 'Now You See Me'. Both
of these films are firmly rooted in the nineties, with old jokes and
plot twists so dumb it would have a toddler second guessing the events
of the film. Another comparison to be made is that they both possess
visual gleam. Take that away and they are just cheap parlour tricks to
conceal their true identity.

If I am putting my points across to you again and again, then I'm
sorry. But at least it parallels the repetitiveness of the film itself.
What starts out as clever movements of characters who steal wallets and
other personal belongings from random citizens grows tiresome quickly.
Seen one con and you have seen them all. Don't get me going again about
the romance that has been stamped on so that couples will flock to the
cinema. Do we ever feel involved in their emotions? Do we feel for the
characters? Do we in fact buy their romance at all for a second? The
answer to all of them above is a definite no! The con clearly is on
with 'Focus', not on the oblivious characters, but by and large on the
audience themselves. How long can you watch the same old, same old
trickery on screen that never changes? It drags and drags and drags.
Gets old quickly see? Want a dull Will Smith? A flavourless story? Dumb
plot twists that make no sense for a climax? You can have it all. Just
do not expect witty dialogue, engaging scenes or interesting characters
for that matter. Now excuse me while I burn all copies of the film.
<|_=00=_|>
I couldn't quite figure out what kind of caper movie Focus is trying to
be.

If it was a light comedy in the vein of Oceans, The Sting, or The
Italian Job then the tone of the film is completely wrong. The cast try
to be light, fluffy and likable. There is a smattering of sexual
tension, which seems very forced. But the characters aren't funny and
you can't empathise with them. They steal from ordinary people and
relish that fact, referring to victims as 'suckers'.

OK then, this must be a serious caper movie in the vein of The
Grifters? The kind of caper movie where you're supposed to hate the
lead characters and everyone comes to a sticky end? Well, no. The film
just isn't bleak enough. Largely absent are gratuitous lashings of
realistic violence; overly profane language and there are no dark
overtones.

When we finally come to the consequence of the lead characters actions
it's a weak conclusion. What did our character learn from his journey?
Spiritual enlightenment? That crime doesn't pay? No, only that he
should never lose 'focus'. Seriously, that's it!?

Don't ever get me started on the plot.

The whole movie is a gigantic mess. Avoid it at all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
"Focus" blends two different movies in roughly equal measure. One is a
movie about con men, scam artists and hustlers, in the tradition of
"The Sting," "Ocean's Eleven," "House of Games" and "Shade." The second
movie is a romantic comedy between two people who are strongly
attracted to one another, but who cannot and do not trust each other. 

The movie about con men is brilliant. The hustles and scams are clever
and cleverly executed with excellent skill and tradecraft.
Dramatically, the double-blinds and double- crosses are well executed.
The players con their marks, one another and the audience with finesse
and aplomb. The cinematography, choreography and editing are crisp. The
reveals are plausible within the film's cosmos of reality. 

The romantic comedy is not bad. One can understand and believe the
attraction between the two characters. Will Smith's character is hunky,
clever, confident, successful and wealthy. Margot Robbie's character is
gorgeous, sexy, vulnerable, clever and charming. But the major plot
points in this boy finds girl, boy loses girl, boy wins girl back
subplot seem contrived, while the intriguing aspect of their
relationship (How can two con artists with a history of deceiving one
another learn to trust one another?) isn't explored in a satisfactory
manner. Instead we get a breakup for reasons that are never explained,
a repeated gag involving a wallet, and a massive coincidence that leads
the audience to believe one of them has a hidden agenda involving the
other. The relationship between them works best when they are conning
one another, but it needs resolution. 

Technically, the film is beautifully done. Cinematography, locations,
wardrobe, make-up, editing, audio -- everything is polished. It's a
movie that merits a second or third viewing, not only to see the cons
played out, but also to appreciate some of the subtle foreshadowing.
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched "Focus", a movie which made some buzz 2-3 years ago mainly
because the rumored romance between the two main actors, Will Smith and
Margot Robbie. I don't know what they actually did off-screen, but
on-screen they have no chemistry at all.

Focus is a movie about con-artists. It doesn't try to follow the steps
of "The Sting" or "Ocean's eleven", but it has the same goal, to
confuse the audience on who is playing who... and here is where the
problems are starting to arise...

The plot is paper thin and every con seems unnecessary and
overcomplicated. There aren't that too many cons to begin with, but
every one of them seems forced. A futile effort from the writers, to
"amaze" the audience.

You see, to make the audience to expect a twist is basically a bad
thing. Even the average viewer had, possibly, better twists in mind
than those in "Focus". More plausible and more fun to watch. Here the
tricks are too over-the-top in their execution to swallow, and overall
unimpressive, leaving a bad aftertaste...

The movie looks colorful, but the acting is pale. Will Smith seems
bored possibly because of an early realization that this movie won't
work.

Overall: Not a satisfying movie, including the lukewarm ending. The
twists you expecting from a con-artist's movie are there, but they are
unclever and forced. Maybe its time to dust that DVD of "The Sting"
from the selves...

.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched the first 40min and was already bored, what was supposed to
be a fun introduction was sadly uneventful. The most exciting scenes
weren't all that exciting. Plot was to say the least confusing. He
rejects her and gives her the money, she is devastated. Next he sees
her during a job, she rejects him, he is chasing her, without any
explanation, suddenly Nicky is madly in love with her and there was no
indication of that whatsoever.Also Nickey completely forgets about a
big job he is supposed to do. And that only makes sense because he is
not good at 'expressing his feelings'. In the end, they are together
and in love and have forgiven each other everything. Really confusing.
I found myself forwarding trough some scenes after that first 40min. I
usually watch every minute of every film i start , even bad ones but
not this one. I love Will Smith but this was disappointing. It needs
more thrill, action and a plot that makes sense. Not recommending this
at all.
<|_=00=_|>
Let this movie serve as a cautionary tale for dummies who want to make
a con artist movieDon't. You are out of your depth. 

This movie made no sense. The romance in it made no emotional sense and
was not set up properly. The twist was obvious, and made no sense. See
instead: The Grifters, The Sting, House of Games, Oceans Eleven, The
Spanish Prisoner, Film Flam Man, Match Stick Men.

Whoever in New Orleans agreed to have this shot there did not read the
script. It portrays New Orleans as the leading American city in which
to get your valuables jacked.

If you believe someone could pull your wedding ring off your finger
without you noticing it, you will maybe like this film.

If you still insist on seeing this, check your logic at the door or be
prepared to be angry. Don't say you weren't warned.
