
A couple of years ago, when I heard Peter Jackson would direct two more
Middle-earth movies, I started crying out of excitement. Those two
movies soon got changed into three and I was angry because I was
convinced the story was too short for three three-hours-long movies.
Despite the book being approximately 300 pages long, Peter Jackson &
co. proved me wrong and managed to not include big parts of the books
in these movies, even though there's more than 8,5 hours of total
screen time. "Disappointed" is an understatement.

I don't think this movie was supposed to make me laugh at the serious
scenes and sigh at the 'comic relief' scenes -basically everything
Alfrid was in- but sadly it did. At least the 'funny' scenes in the
Lord of the Rings trilogy were subtle and less in number; BOTFA was
supposed to be "serious and dark" and those silly, ridiculous scenes
pretty much ruined that.

I have nothing negative to say about the acting though. The amazing
cast of this trilogy did the best they could with the awful script they
were given, and I'm thankful for that. It's not their fault that their
character development was rushed because the movie was full of
pointless Legolas Vs. Gravity scenes, dull Tauriel scenes who fell in
love with Kili after having a conversation with him once or twice -
same goes for Kili who fell in love with her and even gave her the
token his mother, Dís, gave him.

The worst part of this movie isn't even that it's full of badly done
CGI or the big lack of proper character development. It's the fact that
Tauriel, a badly written, impossible character made up by Peter Jackson
& co., had more screen time than characters who were in the actual book
written by J.R.R. Tolkien. Beorn basically got fifteen seconds, if not
less, screen time in the last installment of this trilogy. Most of the
dwarfs from the Company barely got a line, and a LOT of things are left
unexplained.

SPOILERS AFTER THIS LINE

For instance, what happened with Thranduil and the white gems? Did he
ever get them back? 

What happened to the gold? As a fan of the books I already know the
answer, but the movie didn't really care to explain this important part
of the story. Come on, the entire battle was about the gold. At least
take a minute to explain how it got divided. 

Where did those goats suddenly come from?

Why were the dwarfs wearing helmets when they were still inside the
mountain, but had no helmets on when they actually went to war? 

What happened to the people of Lake-Town? Why didn't the movie explain
that Bard became King of Dale? If I had not read the book, I'd get
really annoyed after watching this movie and not knowing what had
happened to them.

What was the point of those ridiculously large worms and why did no one
else /ever/ mention them before? And why were they gone after ten
seconds? Did they ever get killed?

Why mention Legolas' mother and never explain anything about her at
all?

Besides all these unanswered questions, there are certain things which
bothered me more than all of those questions combined. 1. The Durins
(Thorin, Kili, Fili) didn't get a funeral. In my opinion it's
ridiculous to cut something like that out because they were basically
the main characters. Which brings me to my second point. 2. I think
Peter Jackson forgot that this story is called The Hobbit because Bilbo
is supposed to be the main character, not Thorin. 3. Kili basically
sacrificed himself for Tauriel which is unforgivable. In the actual
story, Fili and Kili died defending Thorin in battle. Now the poor boy
is dead because he had a crush on a badly written elf which also
completely degrades the importance of Legolas and Gimli's friendship. 

Let's not forget about the scene wherein Legolas grabs a flying bat, or
when Bard uses his son Bain to shoot an arrow, which should make him
fall but somehow it doesn't, or when Dain and Thorin decide to hug in
the middle of a battle, or when Azog somehow manages to float and
dramatically opens his eyes. 

I absolutely loved the Lord of the Rings trilogy. They are my favorite
movies of all time and the reason I became a fan of Tolkien's works in
the first place. It's sad that Peter Jackson desperately tried to link
the Hobbit movies to the LOTR trilogy, because it's partly the reason
why the Hobbit movies are so awful. If the unnecessary Dol Guldur
scenes and the Tauriel storyline were skipped, every good part from the
book which is now cut out would have easily fit in. I'm still giving
this movie a 4 out of 10 though, because I absolutely love the cast and
I think they did a brilliant job, especially Richard Armitage and
Martin Freeman. Also, the very last scene was exactly like I imagined
it would be, with Ian Holm's Bilbo and Gandalf knocking on the door.
Loved that part. And "The Last Goodbye" by Billy Boyd was a beautiful
way to end this movie and trilogy and made me tear up.

You might enjoy this movie if you really liked the first two -I
didn't-, if you're into bad CGI or movies that look like video games or
if you don't really care about Tolkien's Middle-earth and are content
with a movie that doesn't do Tolkien and his characters justice at all.
Otherwise you're probably someone like me and you'll leave the theater
disappointed and grieving over the characters you love so much.
<|_=00=_|>
I should begin by saying that I am a big fan of Tolkiens work, and have
read LOTR and The Hobbit (and his other books) many times. I did enjoy
the first trilogy, and thought that the changes Jackson did to the
story were sometimes understandable, sometimes acceptable. However, I
have no idea what happened with this movie and the whole second
trilogy. 

I am terribly disappointed, and I have no idea whether the changes were
necessary simply to milk as much money as possible out of the whole
project (spreading out the story to get 3 long movies, even if that
meant adding many new things), or whether Jackson actually thinks he
knows better than Tolkien... knows better how to explain things, how to
connect the Hobbit to LOTR, or how to make a compelling story. 

And yes, an adaption doesn't HAVE to be close to the book. However, if
you mess with the story, if you include things that contradict the
whole story, and if you essentially kill off the charm and warmth and
concept of the book the movie is based on, things get dangerous.

The Hobbit was a book written for children, and while there are scenes
in the trilogy that will definitely be fun for children (the dwarfs
offering a lot of those kinda scenes), the violence and amount of
killing and cut off heads make me wonder how suitable the movie really
is. 

However, watching this movie, and having seen the previous ones, these
questions came up in my mind:

- Is it really FORBIDDEN to make a movie that Doesn't have a love-story
involved? Isn't the Hobbit legendary enough, hasn't the book proved
often enough it is a great story without a love-story included? Why did
Jackson have to create Tauriel, the female ninja-elf and her love-story
with a DWARF? Why did this have to be added? Would the film would have
so much more terrible (hard to imagine) without a cliché and
badly-written love-story that was added by Jackson and Walsh? - I
sincerely think that, if the elvish race is capable of doing the things
Tauriel and Legolas do in battle, not only could the small group of
elven warriors Jackson added to the battle of Helms Deep in Two Towers
have totally defeated the orcish army in less than 2 minutes... the
history of Middle-Earth would be very difficult if they all could fight
even remotely as well. Also, the fighting skills of Legolas in this
movie are totally inconsistent to what he was able to do later on in
LOTR. Considering that elves live incredibly long, the amount of time
that passed between the Hobbit and Lotr is no explanation of why
Legolas is a walking "ninja-god" in the Hobbit and much less
superman-like in LOTR. - The incredible length of the scenes... it
sincerely feels like the movie team was paid by the minutes of film
they produced - The worms... I reckon they are based on a small comment
by Bilbo, mentioning "were-worms" (a comment that has often riddled
Tolkien-fans). Is this an attempt to somehow win over the fans of
Tolkien-lore that feel insulted by Tauriel, the changes to the story,
the goats, rabbits and deer-mounts, the fact that the WONDERFUL scene
of Beorn appearing at the battle in the book and turning the tide,
bringing relief and a change to the battle was kinda removed because
the ninja-elves prove that Middle-Earth is located in the Matrix? - I
really would feel bad for JRR Tolkien if he was able to watch these
movies. He felt so much love for the world and characters he created,
and put so much time, effort and feelings into his work. All this now
was steamrolled over by the production team of this movie. After the
rather respectful handling of LOTR, Jackson changed so much about the
Hobbit that it feels totally disrespectful to the lifetime of work
Tolkien put into his stories. 

What went wrong? Did Jackson think that, in order to attract and
convince all those that haven't read the books, he would need to turn a
wonderful book, written for children with a lot of warmth and charm,
into a medieval Transformers (regarding amount of CGI, length of
fights, lack of realism, character depth and taste)? 

Did he really think this was in any way a respectful adaption of the
work of a man who invested DECADES into writing, refining and
perfecting his stories? Who, instead of focusing on just hours of
battle, managed to create a world full of lore, charm, and wonderful
characters?

I have no idea what went wrong behind the scenes. Have no idea whether
the movie studio said "Jackson, forget about what people love about the
Hobbit. Turn it into three overlong movies for more profit, get us as
many battles and skirmishes as you possibly can milk out of this, and
just to make sure, add a love-story (we don't care how you do it), add
a popular character from the previous trilogy so people will dig that.
Oh yeah, the book was written for children, so make sure there is a
song or two, bird poo on the nutty wizard who escaped from Hogwarts
(Radagast), a dwarf with a pickax stuck in his skull, and funny bits
that children love. But don't forget we want adults to watch it too, so
please, add tons of action and cut-off heads, too... gotta hit all
those demographics". 

I know a lot of Tolkien-fans apparently love this movie and the
trilogy. One review even said "...from a true fan". Please don't think
this is the case in general. I have grown up reading Tolkiens work, and
I am simply stunned by how bad, how tasteless and disrespectful this
trilogy is.
<|_=00=_|>
Peter Jackson, with this new trilogy, which adapts a somewhat long
children's fairy tale into a three-part action epic, each movie being
three hours long and delving into completely irrelevant stories that
are only hinted at in Tolkien's body of work, has really destroyed his
reputation as the Tolkien translator. He will always live in the shadow
of The Lord of the Rings, which is a sumptuous, beautiful,
heartrending, thrilling masterpiece.

I don't know what happened. But Jackson sacrificed tone, realism,
characterization, and story when he adapted The Hobbit. It is
unrecognizable as work by the same director.

There are so many problems with this trilogy and this movie that is
nigh impossible to list them. Nearly every scene is a real travesty,
and the whole operation is an affront to the source material and fans
of LOTR. The movies make hyper-violent beheadings and mass slaughter
into orgies of staged action sequences and dumb gags. The orcs, which
are now entirely computer-generated, are no longer compelling or
realistic, and they are seemingly significantly more fearsome than in
LOTR... It takes what the audience understands about Middle Earth and
makes it BIGGER, in a completely childish overextension of the original
story, to make things even more epic! Were-worms and enormous bats -
these don't exist in the larger and more climactic battle in LOTR, but
sure, they existed back then, right? Sure! Jackson also turns
characters into absolutely ridiculous flat caricatures. Thranduil, the
bourgeois blue-blood riding an elk, Dain, Thorin's cousin, who rests
his enormous high- pitched Scottish girth on a wild boar, the she- elf
who falls in love with a dwarf... It's stomach churning how Peter
Jackson has combined a love for extreme violence and an eye for
juvenile gags and unbelievable characters, and in a beloved, classic
setting.

This movie, once again, extends Legolas past human bounds, past elven
bounds, past the bounds of Newtonian physics, as he sprints, newly cyan
eyes shining, on falling bricks and hangs from bats. We get to watch
dwarfs behead seiging armies of orcs, who are impotent to the blows of
the tiny Olympians. Again, oh no!, Middle Earth is doomed, the age of
men is over, (cue slow-motion shots of Gandalf looking stricken, Thorin
killing orcs with Sparta kicks)... The feel, the script, the look is
all taken from LOTR and rehashed with this cast of cardboard
characters, in a badly rendered world of excess and fancy.

I expected mature film-making for thoughtful audiences expecting real
characters living in a real world with a compelling story, but
obviously that was too much to expect.

If one of the important themes of The Hobbit is the rejection of greed,
as we can see personified by Thorin, then is it hypocritical that
Hollywood has churned out three abominably shallow and violent films
out of The Hobbit for the public's consumption? I think so. I hate what
these films represent, and what they could have done.
<|_=00=_|>
I was as irritated as most people when I heard that Peter Jackson would
split The Hobbit into three movies because it was obviously a decision
based on nothing more than getting as much money as possible, but even
I never imagined that he would stoop to making a movie like Battle of
the Five Armies (a.k.a. Battle of the 25 Armies plus a couple of random
giant mountain goats and a pig thrown in for good measure).

The CGI was as bad as something you would see in a B movieeven worse
than the previous two Hobbit films. But even more noticeably, the
script took a dive to rock bottom. Within the first half hour, such
utterly laughable clichés as "You make me feel alive," were spoken in a
cheesy love scene that seemed like something straight out of Saturday
Night Live, except that the audience was apparently supposed to take it
seriously.

Shortly before the battle started, there were a few much-needed moments
of comic relief, and I thought the film might possibly turn around. But
all my illusions were soon shattered during the ten-minute scene where
Thorin walks on top of the ice that Azog is floating under with his
eyes open, following the orc and apparently waiting for him to break
through it, whensurprise!he does, and (spoiler for those who have not
yet watched the ten-minute scene that made this obvious) kills Thorin.
Alas. It might have been sad if I hadn't been waiting around for ten
minutes knowing that he would get killed.

Things were looking grim for the dwarfs when who should appear? Our
heroes the eagles, of course, who have managed to bail out the
protagonists in every single movie of the trilogy.

Although I couldn't stop laughing during the scene where three dwarfs
find completely random giant mountain goats with no riders in the
middle of the battle and proceed to ride them up a mountain, the worst
part of the movie was easily the ending. As if the movie isn't long
enough, the audience is not only forced to watch Bilbo go all the way
BACK to the Shire, they have to re-watch footage from Fellowship of the
Ring! I knew it was a bad sign that Peter Jackson actually made a movie
shorter than three hours (although it felt like six)apparently, he had
so little material for this movie that he had to re-use material from
his original trilogy.

When Tauriel discusses love with the abominably clichéd line "Why does
it hurt so much?" I think she described the feelings of most of the
audience enduring the latest Hobbit movie.
<|_=00=_|>
What a difference an Extended Edition makes. For the first part we got
some jolly embellishment. For The Desolation of Smaug we got bags more
depth and character. For The Battle of the Five Armies, it may - I hope
- be transformative. Because right now this feels like An Unfinished
Journey.

It's as if, after all the complaints about splitting a pamphlet of a
novel into three parts, Peter Jackson is playing a joke on us: This is
what you get when you ask for Middle-earth-lite. Characters we've come
to love or loathe arc into nothing; others (e.g. Beorn and Radagast)
are given literally seconds of screen time; and for the first time in
this prequel trilogy, a whole chapter (The Return Journey) is pretty
much elided entirely.

I'd like to be clear on my admiration for what Peter Jackson has done
with The Hobbit so far. For all The Lord of the Rings' mythic grandeur
and complex world-building, there's a warm geniality and brisk impetus
to these lovingly crafted films. And those qualities are married to a
thematic depth missing from its bedtime story source. Home and borders
are themes that have run through this trilogy, from Bilbo's (Martin
Freeman) heartfelt declaration of solidarity at the end of An
Unexpected Journey, to Kili's (Aidan Turner) fevered speech to Tauriel
(Evangeline Lilly) as she heals his wounds in Desolation, when they
realise reconciliation is possible. Heck, I even like the addition of
Tauriel - though her unsatisfying conclusion is perhaps typical of a
final chapter that too often fails to tie up its loose ends.

The movie kicks off from precisely where the second ended, with the
dread dragon Smaug (Benedict Cumberbatch) descending upon Laketown. The
citizens flee but nothing can stop the cataclysm - until a certain
someone finds an ingenious way to pierce the beast. Then there's
nemesis #2: Sauron (also Cumberbatch). We get to see some familiar
faces face-off with this faceless monstrosity.

The story then enters its most intriguing phase: a kind of psychodrama
involving Thorin (Richard Armitage) and his sickening relationship with
gold and power. It's the one time we really glimpse that signature
Jackson oddness, in a wonderful hallucinatory sequence where Thorin
imagines he's sinking in a lake of gold.

The narrative follows the book fairly closely. This was, after all, the
stage of the story where Professor Tolkien finally foregrounded
politics and ethics and the machinations of characters ahead of
adventure. The film is at its most successful in the quieter moments,
as Thranduil (a subtle Lee Pace) ponders the duty of the elves; as Bard
(a brooding Luke Evans) comes to the gate of the mountain to plead for
peace; and as Thorin struggles with his "dragon-sickness" (i.e. greed),
while Bilbo wrestles with the dilemma of what to do with a certain
stolen gemstone.

Thorin was presented at first as this trilogy's Aragorn. But over time
we've learned of the dangerous pride that ruined his grandfather.
Thorin's hubris and arrogance is in stark contrast to Bilbo's very
relatable and achievable traits of decency and humility. The gulf
between them is intriguing and wisely plundered for drama. Armitage and
Bilbo provide the best performances of the film - mostly internal;
mostly in the eyes - and their farewell is one of the more moving
moments in a trilogy that has largely prioritised humour over pathos.

The battle itself is undoubtedly impressive - great roaring hordes
punctuated with spectacular giants - but in a sense it compounds the
problem of the relatively truncated runtime. What was already the
shortest Middle-earth film is rendered artificially even shorter by the
fact that there's 45 minutes of virtually wordless fighting. By now we
should all be braced for Super Legolas and his physics-defying fighting
style. That reaches new heights here; as he sprints up a crumbling
bridge like he's on the wrong escalator, it's like some sort of visual
satire on the weightlessness of CGI.

With its last bastion and swarming armies, the titular battle resembles
The Return of the King's Pelennor finale - yet that movie took breath
between its showdowns. Galadriel vs. Sauron; Legolas vs. Bolg; Thorin
vs. Azog... it's like we're watching someone finish off a video game
but we're powerless to stop them skipping the tension- or
character-building cutscenes. Moreover, the dubious editing decisions
create some strange and jolting juxtapositions and tonal lurches, and
negate the sense of time passing or of great distances being crossed.

The result is a film that really earns its status of "theatrical cut",
insofar as it resembles many a boisterous blockbuster. This is fairly
damning criticism for a Middle-earth movie, usually so luxurious and
layered in its sense of a unique world. There's plenty of meat here -
but where are the bones that hold it all together? 11 months away,
perhaps.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I have to say that I'm glad that's over. The final movie was well
worth the price of admission, which in my case was a free ticket to a
preview screening.

I found this movie to be a stretch and as the final movie in a trilogy
that was getting less interesting the further you went into the series,
I left feeling extremely disappointed, and glad I didn't pay for the
premium experience (3D, Imax, etc).

There was a little too much CG this time around, and it wasn't even all
that great. Case in point two close scenes with a rider approaching and
leaving were clearly CG...they couldn't even afford to use a real horse
and rider? Come on...

The battle scenes went on way too long and in parts were even more
ridiculous than the "riding the broken wooden bridges all the way down
to the bottom of the cavern..." scene in the earlier edition of this
series, and since the battle scenes were pretty much all that carried
this movie, well...

Yes, this movie does have to be seen and it should be viewed on a big
screen. However, in the opinion of this reviewer, waiting until it
appears in a second run theatre will provide better value for money.

It's a movie that wraps up a series, but when compared to Peter
Jackson's original LOTR work it pales and is as pale as an orc who has
been working in the basement of Orthanc. At night. With the lights out.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of the books first and the movies second I have willingly
celebrated the achievement of Peter Jackson and his team for bringing
this wonderful world to the screens.

Sadly on this occasion I cant feel quite so enthusiastic. Without a
shadow of a doubt this is the worst blockbuster movie I have ever seen. 

The excitement of waking up to the day having finally arrived to have
one last cinema experience in Middle-Earth was soon turning into cinema
nightmares.

A direction less mess from start to finish that only got worse as this
movie went on, from the opening sequences of Smaug having his revenge
on Lake-Town and Bard using his son as a make shift aim for his bow
this simply descended into a ridiculous aimless shambles. 

Our beloved Mr Bilbo Baggin's reduced to a secondary character of no
weight or meaning was soon a small quibble compared to the elf- centric
nonsense which ensued. Riding bats was bad enough before the ultimate
insult of Legolas using a sword as a sort of remote control to crash a
troll type enemy into a tower which becomes the setting for quite
simply the worst piece of cinema ever used.

I could go on for ever, this films redeeming feature is that it ended.
Christopher Tolkien was quoted saying that these movies had reduced the
beauty and aesthetic of his fathers work to nothing and it had been
absorbed into the absurdity of our time, and I believed he was wrong as
he was talking about Lord of the Rings but his words are fitting for
this monstrosity of overblown Hollywood Esq movie making.

I am certain that action fans think this is a fitting end to this
adventure but as a fan of the books and the previous films I for one am
offended by what was put in front of me. The beauty, emotion and heart
of this wonderful story of a Hobbit that had an adventure was taken and
ripped to pieces by terrible movie making.

A sad end for all the wrong reasons.
<|_=00=_|>
If you haven't read The Hobbit and/or if you like the first two movies:
I envy you of sorts... 

If someone had told me some years ago that I would consider walking out
from a Tolkien movie opening night, I would have slapped them with a
cod. Or a salmon. The Hobbit trilogy is crap.

It's little more than a long list of invented battles and love stories
to attract a widest possible audience, as well as loads of idiotic
storyline to make the story slide into the Lord of the Rings movies as
smooth as an Elven ass. 

I understand that some adaption is required from book to screen, but
when dealing with a book more or less only surpassed by the Bible and
the IKEA catalogue, one should tread carefully.

Do yourself a favor. Read the book. Let your mind be the big screen.
<|_=00=_|>
In Jackson's defense: the project was ambitious to begin with. Turn 310
pages of children's literature into an epic Hollywood trilogy. Many
debates go on about which movie was the best: the fairy tale, the one
in-between, or the die hard-alike final. The sad truth is, that to a
pure fan, they are, one by one, in their own unique ways, an
abomination. 

What can one expect, from a battle that starts in the third-to-last
chapter in the book, but that goes on for 144 minutes in the film
adaption? Granted, some of the battle scenes were innovative. In fact,
the beginning, the cooperation between the elves and dwarfs, who had
been ridiculing each other like Tom and Jerry at first, was most
entertaining. For a few minutes, at most. But not for two hours. 

Of course, the writers realized this. Therefore, these bombastic large-
scale battles were altered with individual scenes. And this is where
all touch with Tolkien faded. Not only were the action scenes
needlessly absurd, (I think of Legolas jumping from one falling stone
to another, of Azog opening his eyes in an o-so-melodramatic fashion
we've seen way too many times, and of Brad's ridiculous carriage scene)
but the individual stories weren't nearly as grasping as they should
have been. 

And this can be forgiven for Thranduil and his son, in an unsuccessful
ending scene, that was empty of any convincing emotions, in an attempt
to make a bridge to the Lord of The Rings series. This can even be
forgiven for Thorin, the classic anti-hero who goes mad after barely a
few days of being around his treasure, but realizes his true destiny
just in time, only to die an honorable death, in order to obtain
forgiveness for his 20-minute-earlier sins. But this can't be forgiven
for the Hobbit. Bilbo Baggins is a supernumerary in his own movie. And
that is inexcusable.

All fans of Tolkien will probably watch this. The feeling I'm left
with, is gratefulness for the untouchable Lord of the Rings series.
They can never be taken away. "The Hobbit" falls short right there
where the Lord of the Rings is most powerful: loyalty to Tolkien. The
trilogy did not fail because it grasped for Hollywood-greatness, it
failed because Tolkien would watch it and say "What a fine movie!
Where'd you get the idea?"
<|_=00=_|>
Before seeing _The Battle of the Five Armies_ today, I told people,
"The first two films lacked fidelity to the book, but this one should
be better." I figured Jackson wouldn't have to add lots of extraneous
invented action scenes because the final third of the book contained
plenty of action.

Boy, was I wrong.

Unnecessary invented characters from the previous films continued to
take up screen time in this one, and many new ones were added. Tolkien
wouldn't recognize a bunch of grand-scale evildoers or various "good
guys" whose relationships were supposed to tug at our hearts, though
they turned my stomach instead.

The additions included plenty of trite dialogue. When one invented
character, in a scene made from whole cloth, was shown weeping over a
loved one and asking "Why does it hurt so much?", I just about tossed
my Junior Mints.

Meanwhile, a character largely responsible for turning the tide in the
book's Battle of Five Armies (note the lack of a "the" before "Five")
was shown in the film, without explanation, for about three seconds.
Blink and you might miss it.

When one baddie was apparently killed, I thought, "If he suddenly jumps
up and starts fighting again, I'm leaving." Too bad I didn't follow
through on my threat after that excruciatingly predictable plot twist.

Did I mention that Dain, confronting the elf warriors, came across as
some nightmare parody of John Cleese performing "The Lord of the Fawlty
Towers"?

I could go on, but "travesty" is about the kindest word I can use for
this mass of claptrap. I now fear that Jackson will film _The
Silmarillion_, turning it into yet another tawdry, over-the-top CGI
fest.
