
Producer, director, writer and lead actor: Ben Affleck.

Let's look at those contributions one by one.

Producer. The film looks good. There's an expert team on both sides of
the camera. But there's a problem with length. Also, it feels as though
the adaptation from Dennis Lehane's novel has not sufficiently
transformed what was on the page into cinematic story-telling.

Director. There are excellent action sequences, such as an exciting
car-chase and a final shoot-out. As a director of actors Mr Affleck is
strong: he elicits particularly striking work from Chris Messina, Elle
Fanning, Remo Girone and Sienna Miller. Within scenes there's a
reassuring sense of control of pace. But overall, there is a sense of
the director being in thrall to the screenplay.

Writer. This is the weakest link. It feels in awe of its source
material. I read that an entire strand of the book was removed for the
purposes of the film, but this was not enough. The producer and/or the
director needed to tell the writer to put it through another draft. Or
put it in its current form on Netflix as a two-part drama.

Lead actor. A matter of taste, I guess. Mr Affleck's persona is always
of a handsome man who knows he's handsome, and who is very pleased with
himself about it. I find this insufferable in large doses. And there is
a very large dose of it here. Mr Affleck's performances lack depth --
compare and contrast those of this amazing brother Casey. As far as I'm
concerned, Mr B. Affleck is more a male model than an actor: in James
Bond terms, he's a George Lazenby rather than a Daniel Craig. His best
film performance is his self-parodying turn in 'SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE'.
In LIVE BY NIGHT he is serviceable, nothing more. His director clearly
couldn't get anything else out of him.

It's instructive to compare Ben Affleck to Clint Eastwood, who also has
a limited -- maybe even more limited -- range as an actor. But Eastwood
the director usually casts Eastwood the actor brilliantly. DIRTY HARRY,
UNFORGIVEN,GRAN TORINO etc: who could be better? By contrast, there are
many young actors who could have played the lead in LIVE BY NIGHT, and
many writers who could have delivered a better screenplay, especially
when guided by a strong producer and director. Time will tell whether
Ben Affleck is as good in those last two departments as ARGO suggested
he might be. The promise he showed in those areas in that film is not
in evidence here.
<|_=00=_|>
Ben Affleck's new movie could best be described as "sprawling". In both
directing and writing the screenplay (based on a novel by Dennis
Lehane), Affleck has aimed for a "Godfather" style gangster epic and
missed: not missed by a country mile, but missed nonetheless.

Morally bankrupted by his experiences in the trenches, Joe Coughlin
(Affleck) returns to Boston to pick and choose which social rules he
wants to follow. Not sociopathic per se, as he has a strong personal
code of conduct, but Coughlin turns to robbery walking a delicate path
between the warring mob factions of the Irish community, led by Albert
White (the excellent Robert Glenister from TV's "Hustle"), and the
Italian community, led by Maso Pescatore (Remo Girone). Trying to keep
him out of jail is his father ("Harry Potter"'s Brendan Gleeson) who 
usefully  is the Deputy Police Chief. Life gets complicated when he
falls in love with White's moll, Emma Gould (Sienna Miller). The scene
is set for a drama stretching from Boston to the hot and steamy
Everglades over a period of the next twenty years.

Although a watchable popcorn film, the choppy episodic nature of the
movie is hugely frustrating, with no compelling story arc to glue all
of the disparate parts together. The (often very violent) action scenes
are very well done and exciting but as a viewer you don't feel invested
in a 'journey' from the beginning of the film to the (unsatisfactory)
ending. In my experience it's never a good sign when the writer
considers it necessary to add a voice-over to the soundtrack, and here
Affleck mutters truisms about his thoughts and motives that irritate
more than illuminate.

The sheer volume of players in the piece (there are about three film's
worth in here) and the resulting minimal screen time given to each
allows no time for character development. Unfortunately the result is
that you really care very little about whether people live or die and
big plot developments land as rather an "oh" than an "OH!".

Affleck puts in a great turn as the autistic central character whose
condition results in a cold, calculating demeanor and a complete lack
of emotion reflecting on his face. Oh, hang on no, wait a minute
sorry I've got the wrong film. I'm thinking about "The Accountant". I
don't know whether he filmed these films in parallel. I generally enjoy
Ben Affleck's work (he was excellent in "The Town") but for 95% of this
film his part could have been completed by a burly extra with an
Affleck mask on. In terms of acting range, his facial muscles barely
get to a "2" on the scale. Given the double problem that he is barely
credible as the "young man" returning mentally wounded from the
trenches, then in my opinion he would have been better to have focused
on the writing and directing and found a lead of the likes of an Andrew
Garfield to fill Coughlin's shoes.

That's not to say there is not some good acting present in their all
but brief supporting roles. Elle Fanning ("Trumbo", "Maleficent") in
particular shines as the Southern belle Loretta Figgis: a religious
zealot driving her police chief father (Chris Cooper, "The Bourne
Identity") to distraction. Cooper also delivers a star turn as the
moral but pragmatic law-man.

Sienna Miller ("Foxcatcher") delivers a passable Cork accent and does
her best to develop some believable chemistry with the rock-like
Affleck. Zoe Saldana ("Star Trek") is equally effective as a Cuban
humanitarian.

In summary, it's sprawlingly watchable but overall a disappointment,
with Affleck over-reaching. One day we surely will get a gangster film
the likes of another "Godfather", "Goodfellas" or "Untouchables".
Although this has its moments, unfortunately it's more towards the
"Public Enemies" end of the genre spectrum.

(For the graphical version of this review please visit
bob-the-movie-man.com. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
I've been a fan of Ben Affleck's directional efforts ever since I saw
Gone Baby Gone way back in 2007 in theaters. I also loved The Town and
think its his best film to date. Live by Night sort of came out of
nowhere but I'm always down for Prohibition era crime films. The film
seemed to get lukewarm reviews but there was no way I wasn't going to
see this for myself. Overall, I'd say I enjoyed it and its better than
what other critics are saying.

The film is set in Boston (and then Tampa) and is the story of the son
of a police captain, who becomes a bootlegger and gangster. Be
forewarned that there isn't much that separates this from gangster
films we've seen before, however Affleck knows what he's doing and I
think he does it well. The thing that pops out to me is the dialogue.
Its quite clever and witty. There's funny moments and the film isn't
always super serious, which is refreshing. Not everything in the script
has to be explained as the viewers are expected to follow the message.
The suits, cars, glamour, of the 20s and 30s is captured quite well
(not that I lived in that era to really know if it was accurate). Some
of the dialogue was hard to hear in theaters (the accents probably
contributed to this). I think this film will one day warrant a second
view anyways.

While I really enjoyed the film, it isn't without faults. It really
depends on whether you can forgive the film for that or really see it
as a detriment. Some of the characters felt loose and suddenly
disappear. This includes Siena Miller, Elle Fanning and Brendan
Gleeson. Fates of characters are explained and such but they feel
unfulfilled. I thought Fanning's character was just becoming great, but
as I said unfulfilled. Miller's character arc was just so odd as well
(maybe rushed to fit the story). Well, at least my boy Miguel was in
this. The film seems to want to tackle a few foes/events in different
parts of the film and doesn't always do it seamlessly, which makes the
film seem unfocused. The events of the third act felt rushed together
just to come to a resolution. Without going into spoiling there's a
head scratching moment near the end that seemed out of left field. I
didn't have too many problems with all this and maybe its because I'm
partial to Affleck and gangster films.

I enjoyed the car chase and gun battles. I think the comic element of
the film kind of swept into the action scenes which made it enjoyable.
I liked that the film takes place in Tampa and mixes with the Black and
Cuban community as well. Its nice to see a sort of different locality
in a gangster film. I'm sure there's much more I want to ramble about
but nothings coming to me. Overall, this probably won't be something
that'll be a the top of year end lists but its thoroughly enjoyable
even through its flaws. Its not Affleck's best but I applaud him for
directing and writing films in a time where he's busy being in
blockbusters.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Maybe it's true. We all find ourselves in lives we didn't expect. But
what I learned was powerful men don't have to be cruel."Joe Coughlin
(Ben Affleck) 

Yet in the best of gangster, powerful men like Michael Corleone and
Henry Hill are cruel, no matter how gentle their exteriors. So it seems
with Joe Coughlin, a prohibition "bandit," as he calls himself, who
doesn't think of himself as a gangster ("I don't wanna be a gangster.
Stopped kissing rings a long time ago."). Yet he kills or has others
killed in the name of moving toward heaven.

Although beautifully appointed and set in Florida and Cuba,
writer/director Affleck's crime story misses the weight of crime films,
which casually juxtapose the serious with the not so. It lacks the sass
of Pulp Fiction and the gravitas of The Godfather with not much of
their verbal gymnastics or irony.

Joe wanting to be a saint while being a sinner requires an actor of
considerable resources, which Affleck showed a modicum of recently in
the Accountant because it required him to be affectless. He brings that
same stolid mien to this film and endangers the edge necessary for the
success of actors like Al Pacino. Like Affleck, the film is listless
except when Tommy Guns take charge.

As Joe navigates from a low-rent lover, Emma (Sienna Miller), to a
classy love, Graciella (Zoe Saldana), director Affleck spends too much
time on their embraces and too little on what makes him love them so
passionately. He does love his own image as his abundance of self
close-ups testifies. Maybe there is no passion, just old affectless
Affleck.

It's dumping time in Hollywood, and Live by the Night is a classic
example of why smart studios dump dull movies in January. It's not all
that bad the way Joe is not all that bad. However, it just doesn't have
the firepower to go against the big guns in the Oscar race. Remember
the wild surprises and rich characters of the long-form Sopranos? 

Maybe that's why the film gangster genre feels troubled here: The arch
enemy, TV!
<|_=00=_|>
Live By Night tells the story of gangster Joe Coughlin (Ben Affleck) as
he rises, falls then rises again through the criminal underworlds of
Boston and Miami. Chronicling his life throughout the prohibition era
in America, Joe becomes involved in the most nefarious of situations.
He survives a bank heist gone wrong in which a police officers winds up
dead, he survives a long stint in prison caused by the betrayal of his
femme fatale Emma (Sienne Miller), he goes through so much in the film
that you start to wonder less about what is going to happen than as to
why it is happening. This is a film that feels incomplete, rushed and
all together shallow. Ben Affleck, who has given us some pretty
incredible films up until now, shows his weaknesses as a screenwriter
but continues to give us more than enough to chew when it comes to his
direction.

While I did want more out of this film, there is no denying that
Affleck can most certainly stage some breathtaking action sequences. He
knows when to get close, he knows what to show and when to show it.
Live By Night is no exception to that standard in regards to how
everything is shown. Some major highlights of the film include a
vicious car chase through a country back road, copious amounts of
bloody shootouts and brutal fights throughout yet we feel disengaged by
what is going on. We don't know enough about anyone in the film outside
of Joe to be connected to them, let alone feel bad when someone dies.
To be quite honest, the film is 128 minutes and has about 100
characters in it...none of which you end up caring about. This comes
down on the shoulders of Affleck as a screenwriter. In many ways, the
film plays out like a highlight reel to a HBO mini-series such as
Boardwalk Empire. It never really lets us simmer in slow burn human
drama and instead gives us an action packed gangster film that is more
on the level of Gangster Squad than White Heat. 

If there is one thing that I've grown to expect going into a Ben
Affleck film, it is that I'm bound to be blown away by the cast if all
else fails. While the performances in this film are good, some of them
even excellent, it really doesn't translate well when you just don't
care about them. Ironically, in a film that is geared towards male
characters and dominated by such, the women in this film give
tremendous performances. Sienna Miller and Zoe Saldana stand out as two
performances that were truly powerhouse even if their screen time
collectively added up to maybe twenty minutes all together.

Then there is Chris Messina, who was a bit hard to judge here,
considering he is playing a character from the 1930s underworld, but it
was extremely hard to take him seriously during times when you wanted
nothing more than to be able to take him seriously. At first, I figured
he was the comic relief but then I was left waiting for him to drop the
act and be serious for a moment. While I know Messina is a phenomenal
actor, I just could not take him seriously in this role. Unfortunately,
I thought he was too over the top. No matter what my thoughts on
Messina were, he still did not compare to how I felt about Ben
Affleck's performance as Joe.

While I am a big fan of Ben Affleck, I was severely let down by his
performance in this film. I've read about the differences between the
film and the novel regarding the age and honestly, I don't really care
about that. The film is the film and the book is the book. That isn't
my issue here. My issue is how wooden Affleck went to portray Joe.
There was nothing new, nothing deep about this character which is
pretty disappointing considering both The Town and Gone Baby Gone had
tremendous lead characters that made us care about what happens to
them. Unfortunately, this isn't the case here. This film does very
little to make us care about any character, let alone our lead. Many
will argue that watching a criminal empire get built is fascinating no
matter how many times we see it, and I agree with that. But when you
have someone as uninteresting as Joe Coughlin, something that is
supposed to be fun to watch turns into a chore. That is probably the
most frustrating thing about this film.

Overall, Live by Night is a throwback to classical gangster films that
serves as Ben Affleck's worst directorial effort. With that being said,
the film still features some truly thrilling action sequences that are
bound to satisfy many even if the film is a bloated mess that should
have been larger than what is or nothing at all.
<|_=00=_|>
"Live By Night" sees star Ben Affleck back in the director's chair for
the 4th time, his previous directorial offerings being "Gone Baby
Gone", "The Town", and best picture winner "Argo", and sadly, it's
easily his worst. "Live By Night" boasts a wonderful cast, stunning
cinematography, and enthralling action set pieces but lacks any
emotional weight or an interesting story, it's your usual by the
numbers gangster flick about tough guys in over-sized suits blasting
each other with Tommy guns and stabbing each other in the back. "Live
By Night" is not a bad film by any means but is a forgettable entry in
the gangster film genre and a disappointing directorial effort from Ben
Affleck.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to the theater to watch a Gangster/Mafia movie, and I got one.
Mafia movies are by far my favorite type of movie. Live by Night
delivered that 1920's gangster look. Ben Affleck does an amazing Irish
Mafia member persona. The story was very moving and the characters were
likable. There was just enough action in the movie. The tommy gun fight
scenes felt like a real 1920's gang shoot out. Live by Night shows a
true gangster movie look. Most Mafia movies rely on the story to make
their movie good. Live by Night uses action and an amazing story. I had
a little trouble with keeping up with the names of the characters but
later on I started memorizing their names. Defiantly go see this movie
if your a gangster/mafia movie fan. Live by Night will not disappoint
you.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was produced, written, played and directed by the same man,
an actor who believes he should become a genius of cinema if he wants
to respect himself. It is a bundle of stereotypes, anachronisms, bad
acting and excess of dialogue and "ideas". I wanted to walk out one
hour into the film, but I was with someone. If the above said were not
enough, the crap lasts 130 minutes of unbearable boredom. By the way, I
loved the Cuban music played in that Florida party; the movie makers
imply this is about 1930 but the orchestra sounds like Gloria Stefan's
songs, those guys were 70 years ahead of their time! *Wonderful*! And
this gross inaccuracy is a strong characteristic of the film, as every
possible approach to all possible events of the late twenties/early
thirties (they only forgot to cleverly link the plot to Lindbergh's
kidnapping) is seen through the lens of the nice opinions of today.
This is therefore probably the fakest thirties you can see on a screen.
I also want to underline the utterly stupid and worthless "morals" of
the story, as it is plain from start that the badass played by Affleck
is not better than the guys he fights & kills, and some of his actions
are particularly disgusting and vicious. You want a proof? There's no
way you can feel you care a speck of dust about any character in the
film, save for maybe some of the victims of the tough guy. A recital of
viciousness which tries to lecture us on morals. Unpalatable. I agree
with almost all user reviews between 4 and 1. What you read in those
reviews is the best that can be said about this film.
<|_=00=_|>
His previous gangster movie "The Town" wasn't bad, so with experience
already making a gangster flick, and this time in the 30s, I was very
excited to watch Live by Night. Well, the only positive thing I can say
are the beautiful set pieces. Everything else totally stunk. Its
definitely no classic, and doesn't even come remotely close to The
Town.

It seems like Ben is in love with himself, as he's in almost every
scene, mumbling his lines. He gives Steven Seagal a run for his money
for most soft spoken. Affleck is boring, the pace moves at the speed of
a turtle, all the other actors only gets a few scenes and none of them
are memorable. The love scenes lack passion and worst of all, the
violence lacks excitement. It has the most dullest shootouts of any
gangster movie I can recall. I couldn't wait for this movie to end.

I don't know what happened with Ben, as he wrote, directed, produced,
and starred in it, but he didn't bring his A game, he brought his P
(pathetic) game instead.
<|_=00=_|>
Gangster movies have been a major component to American cinema for
quite some time. With established films like The Godfather series,
Scarface, among other films, sometimes it can be hard to produce a
quality modern day crime film. But Ben Affleck has made an attempt this
weekend with the movie Live by Night. Can Affleck's recent resurgence
revitalize the gang movie, or does his operation go belly up before it
gets started? Robbie K here with another review and as always
appreciate the read. 

LIKES:  Solid acting  Incredible Setting and Costumes  Very Detailed
Description of a mob rising

Summary: Affleck's stoic, monotone, performances continue to find
footholds in a variety of parts, and his portrayal of a gangster with a
conscience is spot on. Although not the most emotionally dynamic
character, Affleck's tactics work in portraying a man struggling with
the trials at hand. Chris Messina as his sidekick has more of an edge
that helps offset the monotone delivery of the lead role. Other actors
do their job of crafting the seedy mob family, being cunning, ruthless,
or strong to accomplish their goals. If the acting doesn't sell the
gangster setting than the costumes and scenery will do the trick. Live
by Night uses the big budget of the film industry to recreate the
roaring 20s, complete with old fashioned zoot suits, classic car
models, and the nostalgic traditional models of high-end restaurants. I
felt I had traveled back in time in this flick, with only the high
definition cameras and a recognition of modern day fabric to shatter
the illusion. Finally, the other component that sells the crime theme
is the attention to detail of starting a crime syndicate. Most other
crime movies often have our character in an established family, but
Live By Night twists this concept and casts Affleck into raising a
satellite family in Florida. Much of the film is focuses on how he
establishes business contracts, allies, love, occasionally throwing in
some conflict resolution that brings a little excitement to the film. 

DISLIKES:  Slow pace  Awkward Summaries  Boring At times  Rushed
over ending

Summary: Although some of my favorite mafia movies don't have action,
they at least have an engaging plot that is suspenseful. Not the case
for this movie. Live by Night is slow, often paying a little too much
attention to monotonous details for building the empire. The film tried
to build the suspense with their overdone explanations that promised
some heart crushing moments... only to wrap things up with a monologue
from Affleck describing what happened. These mundane, overlapping
comments did little for me other than decrease the run time of the
movie and I was disappointed at the lack of effort for drama. The
result for me was a very boring film not only in terms of action, but
in emotional suspense as well. If you look at the classics, the
storytellers built up tension that climaxed at those gut-wrenching
moments as a character was killed. However in this film, they seldom
came close to matching that suspense, the only exception being two
moments near the end of the film. And speaking of the ending it felt
out of place for me. Live By nights "exciting" climax has a heated
battle that fits well into the theme of the movie, but finally relieves
the boring moments. Had they ended with the monologue after that it
would have been perfect. Yet, the movie didn't stop and added an extra
twenty minutes that summed things up, but in a manner that to me was
very simplistic, rushed, and lackluster. 

The VERDICT:

Live by Night is a gangster movie that felt more like a video guide to
starting a bootlegging operation. It certainly has the look and feel of
a gangster movie, complete with family drama, but it lacks that edge
the mobster classics had. Outside of a few moments, this movie was a
little toned down for my tastes, and I didn't like the monologue
summaries as they robbed us of some exciting conclusions. Therefore,
this reviewer can't recommend this movie for the theater outside of the
look of the movie. 

My scores are:

Crime Drama: 6.5 Movie Overall: 5.0
