
I walked in the cinema expecting fast cars, street racing, crazy cop
chases, drifting and explosions and that's exactly what I got! 

This film is called "Need for Speed" and is based on a video game. This
alone tells us not to expect character development, genius plot twists
and memorable dialogues. This films delivers exactly what it set out to
deliver. 

If you like fast and beautiful cars, this is for you. If you like crazy
stunts and cars chases, this is for you. If you enjoyed getting chased
by the cops in the video game, this is for you. 

Go to the cinema expecting the above and you'll have an excellent time.
<|_=00=_|>
Well when I saw the trailer for the NFS movie, I thought "No just no,
it's going to be terrible" - Then I saw the cast of Aaron Paul
(Breaking bad) and Dominic Cooper (The History Boys). I loved Dominic
in The History Boys and like most people enjoyed Breaking Bad.

But alas, having some aspiring actors isn't going to make a movie. Then
I came here and found at the time a rating of 8.4 from people who had
viewed the NFS pre-release. So at that point I thought, OK I'll give it
a shot, worse case scenario it ends up being like a bad Fast and
Furious rip off.

NOPE! Was amazing, never a dull moment, didn't have any scene that was
just utterly pointless (which almost every movie does), the acting was
fantastic, the action was intense, and the soundtrack and effects were
spot on! As a movie it is great, but for someone like myself who grew
up on NFS and loves car's it is EPIC. There's a great scene in the end,
that anyone who has played the NFS: Hot Pursuit series will instantly
go "Yep, this is really NFS!"

The only reason I wont give it a 10/10 is because of some minor plot
holes - But nothing to bad, and most people wouldn't even notice.
Otherwise brilliant, wouldn't be surprised if this becomes the next F&F
Franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at a early screening. This movie was great. The best
authentic no CGI fake cars or wrecks all, old school real cars getting
destroyed and flying down the streets. It was fairly predictable to me
though I am a HUGE movie fan over 5000 seen. Still it made me feel the
way I felt the first time I watched Fast and Furious! I like how they
had no stunt drivers and they trained Aaron Paul how to actually drive
the cars to make it more real. They replicated the cars to ensure that
if/WHEN they did wreck the cars they could truly wreck the cars with no
CGI involved. Aaron Paul & Imogen seem to have great chemistry on
screen that sells the story also.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh boy. Where to even start. 

I suppose that first off I had way better expectations because I was a
HUGE fan of Aaron Paul in Breaking Bad, considering it one of the most
brilliant shows I have ever seen. I was let down. Thankfully, he wasn't
the worst actor in this film. Every single other person was.

This is the first film I've seen that Imogen Poots had a lead role in,
and I will probably never see one again. There were a couple of parts
that I had hope for her, but it only lasted a few seconds until I was
questioning if this was the first film she's ever been in. I was also
unimpressed by Kid Cudi (Scott Mescudi)'s performance. He is one of my
all time favorite music artists and that is definitely what he should
stick to, music. I guess it's not really his fault that the script was
so awful and he was required to recite "joke" after "joke" that they
were trying SO HARD to make funny (failed immensely), but I figured
he'd have the balls to say "I'm not reading this crap on camera." As
far as the other actors and actresses, it would be a waste of my time
to even say anything about them, because it is nothing good. I don't
even want to get started on Michael Keaton's washed-up performance.

The entire movie flip flops between emotional scenes (which are
anything but) and action scenes. None of this flows at all. The scenes
where you're supposed to feel some kind of connection between
characters does not succeed. Nothing builds you up to them and they're
all really awkward and you will feel no differently about anyone or
anything going on in the film. The action scenes seem like they were
thought up last minute and felt very rushed. It was like they had a
five minute time limit on each one or else someone was going to murder
their family.

I guess one positive thing was the visuals, which were alright. That's
probably where this movie is getting rated anything above a seven, it's
from the gear heads (no offense to anybody.) There were some pretty bad
ass cars that were nice to look at and some of the action scenes were
done nicely (looked nice) aside from feeling hurried.

To wrap this up, this is one of the cheesiest and most predictable
movies I have ever seen. I called everything that was going to happen
in almost every scene because it's been done hundreds of times in
hundreds of films, all executed in the same way. I'm still not sure why
the synopsis starts with "fresh from prison" because how prison
affected his life is touched nowhere in the movie. I know that isn't a
big deal but for some reason that just bugs me. 

If you must see this movie, make sure someone else is paying or you
have a free rental up for grabs from your local video store.
<|_=00=_|>
I was expecting this to be hardcore car racing action movie.

But this movie, Need for Speed, gave me pleasant surprise.

It has action but story is good too. Does not bore the viewer.

Director exactly know what needs to be fed to viewer in what quantity.

Acting is well delivered. Aaron Paul and Imogen Poots are matching
pair, especially the eyes. Dominic Cooper delivers well too.

I had an impression that this movie will be in line of Fast and
Furious. But it is not.

Both are good but different. 

Overall, enjoyable movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Ever since the popularity of video games skyrocketed in the 1980s,
Hollywood has been trying to cash in on the craze by bringing
well-known franchises to the big screen. While some adaptations have
come close to getting it right (Silent Hill is probably the best), most
video games movies have been absolutely terrible, with Super Mario
Bros. and Street Fighter: The Movie serving as a shining example of
what not to do.

With a well-documented history of failed projects, the expectations
surrounding Need for Speed couldn't be much lower - after all, it's
based on a decades-old franchise about illegal street racing, featuring
a young cast that remains unproven at the box office - but what the
film lacks in storytelling and character development is more than
compensated for, thanks to the action behind the wheel.

Two years after being framed for the death of a friend, Tobey Marshall
(Aaron Paul) is released from prison with revenge on his mind. His
target is Dino Brewster (Dominic Cooper), the shady professional racer
that put Tobey in jail and Tobey's friend in a coffin. Taking down Dino
will mean beating him at his own game, a top-secret race featuring the
world's most elite drivers, and hosted by the mysterious Monarch
(Michael Keaton).

With less than two days to get from New York to California before the
race begins, Tobey embarks on a cross-country trek that features plenty
of jaw-dropping moments, made even more thrilling by director Scott
Waugh's insistence that all driving stunts be performed by real drivers
in real cars. This adds an extra layer of tension that's sorely missing
from the Fast and Furious series (to which Need for Speed is destined
to be compared), and the film's best moments come courtesy of E-brake
drifts, squealing tires, and near collisions.

Despite its paper-thin plot and many, many failed attempts at humor,
Need for Speed still works thanks to the generous amount of high-octane
action sequences, and the undeniable charisma of Aaron Paul. Skeptics
may not have believed that Paul could distance himself from his Jesse
Pinkman persona, but he delivers a strong performance that should put
him on the radar for future action roles.

Need for Speed is one of the better attempts at translating a popular
video game into a big screen experience, with the practical stunts and
real-world action serving as a nice counterbalance to Fast and
Furious's ever-increasing ridiculousness. Its silliness, predictability
and over- inflated running time keep it from being a truly great movie,
but it's still a hell of a lot of fun.

-- Brent Hankins, www.nerdrep.com
<|_=00=_|>
Someday, there will be a day where video game adaptations hit their
golden era like comic book adaptations did but, until that happens, we
need to be patient. Sadly, until we see that day arrive, we have to
deal with stuff like "Need For Speed." 

It's easy to write off "Need For Speed" as a "Fast and the Furious"
wannabe but it really just felt like a lazy game adaptation to me more
than anything. The story is extremely ridiculous and the performances
are cheesy. Aaron Paul comes off very unlikable for most of the movie
and unconvincing as the super-cool, dangerously skilled racer. The
racers all look like they really need to use the bathroom or are
thinking of a really funny joke in their heads when they are racing and
the film severely lacks in the "speed" promise of the title. Races are
usually slow-moving and boring as they rely on racer's reactions and a
complete slowdown and stop of action with drifting, cornering, and
cutting people off.

One thing I liked about "Need For Speed," though, was the inclusion of
Michael Keaton. He was fun, charismatic, and giving his all to the role
even though the rest of the cast appears to be cheesing it up. Sadly,
he's only in the film for very short periods of time.

Overall, "Need For Speed" is just forgettable and was only slightly
relevant due to Paul's epic portrayal of Jesse Pinkman in "Breaking
Bad." Still, it could have been a lot worseÂ…Uwe Boll could have
directed it.

Hi! My name is Rev. Ron and if you feel like reading more of my rants,
ramblings, bad jokes, geek references, and more movie reviews (like a
more in-depth look at "Need For Speed" and other racing films that
really fulfill the promise of speed) you can visit my blog at
revronmovies.blogspot.com. If you don't want to because you hate me for
not enjoying this one, you don't have to visit my blog. I won't hold it
against you.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say that this was one of the worst movies I've see in this
particular "type" of movie. Was this supposed to be like the NFS game?
Because it have nothing to do with the game at all. Were are the street
races, secret garages, and all those "special" parts that you can get
when you win? Also, this movie have no special cars! It's all stock
cars, and a lot of BS. The argument is simply so bad, that I still
don't understand how a modified Mustang can be fast matched by one
normal truck. And the Detroit scene? I just can't believe how Director
actually think that could be a awesome movie sequence. Not to mention
the final pursuit..... I can believe that some an think that looks
good. A Lamborghini faster than a Bugatti Veyron or even a Koenigsegg,
it's just...... Do you people in America believe in that? 

So, my honest opinion about this? It's not worthy! I want my money
back!
<|_=00=_|>
Greater crap that I've never seen! How to be quoted by 7.8? Who Voted?
7.8 on IMDb and is rated 'The grate Beauty "and 8.3 "The Secret in
Their Eyes". Every 4-5 minutes can predict it will happen about 10
minutes. The same topic is the classic good girl bad boy but if they
want to be with a former boyfriend. The scene with the car in drive
power seemed a big mess and pulled hair. What could not stop two
minutes to power? Air monitoring phase is again silly, you can not fly
below 1,800 feet above populated areas, and that gave him guidance on
what street drive! Not worth writing on, the film deserves more than a
Razzie!
<|_=00=_|>
Need For Speed (movie) is such a routine movie. Sir John Gatins (writer
of movies like "Real Steel", "Flight" and "Need for Speed") I have a
classic story where both leading actors will be in space with many
other astronauts. Unfortunately, the spaceship they are traveling in
collides with a massive rock and all of them die, except the lead pair.
At the end male actor dies leaving the female actress with a couple
oxygen cylinders. She survives and the later is history. Sounds similar
to "Titanic" but complete different locations and new actors. Same
happened with NFS.

"Need for Speed" - same old story. One of the lead actor's friend dies
in a car accident and later for revenge and power they race at the end.
New cars, New faces and new locations doesn't make any difference to
"Fast and furious". One black guy in your team. What next? You will
have an Asian guy in your sequel who is more intellectual than the lead
actor. Wasted my break. Ohhh yeah, forgot to mention the acting skills
of Mr. Aaron Paul. He is no different to Mr. Ram Charan (telugu actor).
Not in look-a-like way, but in acting way. Same expression for every
shot and hardly shows his facial expressions. I wish I had lots of
money. Would have made "Need for Speed" myself and acted in it as a
lead actor. Enough said.
