
Never written a review before. Haven't felt the need. But after seeing
the 1 star reviews of this film,i just felt compelled. 

Firstly,what this is.

I would say a cross between The Shining and We Need to talk about
Kevin. This film is desperately sad. A woman who is haunted,first by
her husbands death,then by the Babadook all while looking after her
young son. This is a creepy, no jump scare, fantastic psychological
horror. A rare gem that plays on all those fairytale fears that you may
have had as a kid.

Second.What this isn't.

Well,not "The worst horror in years".I get that people have different
opinions.I do.But this isn't a film that can justify that sort of
nonsensical comment. It isn't a dull jump scare-filled blockbuster. The
characters are not hot teenagers. They are believable, disturbed and
this makes the film the slow,creeping horror that it is.

If you are a fan of horror,it really is a must see film.
<|_=00=_|>
The Babadook isn't for the mainstream crowd. If you're looking for jump
scares and scary monsters you wont find any here. The Babadook is a
movie that taps into the basal emotion of fear. It portrays the truly
terrifying things in life - grief, loneliness, and despair. Not things
that freak you out but things that make you unsettled, disturbed, and
human.

The acting is fantastic, the story itself is unique and told
brilliantly through its subtle writing and directing, it's very well
paced, I could go on and on. What I love about this movie especially is
the suspense. There is always tension present throughout the movie,
like there's an underlying unease to every shot. The way Jennifer Kent
crafts these shots is bleak and macabre but not to the point where it's
depressing. You're always on the edge of your seat. And I can't give
enough credit to Essie Davis. Her performance is Academy Award worthy
material, seriously. The son is great as well. At first he may seem
obnoxious, and to an extent he is, but he acts exactly how a kid would
act in that situation. You believe him. You believe everything these
characters are doing, and that's what makes this movie work so well.

The Babadook really is one of the best horror movies I've seen in a
long time and I've seen a lot. Is it scarier than The Conjuring or
Sinister? I wouldn't say that, but that depends entirely on your
definition of scary. This movie explores the more disturbing and
realistic side of the genre, I'd say it's more haunting than said
movies for sure. It's psychological horror at its finest. It actually
gets under your skin, and when a movie can do that, it has done its
job.
<|_=00=_|>
At first glance, The Babadook may sound like a tale that warns people 
to not let children put creepy stories up into their heads. It may also 
be like one of those old horror movies with children being influenced 
by the ghost. The titular monster seems to have the potential of being 
a silly urban legend, such as Slender Man or the Hash Slinging Slasher 
(sorry about that), that is destined to be flooded with fan fiction, or 
simply just another horror movie icon, but the film surprisingly has a 
different aim than just scaring the audience. It might as well be a 
character study of a mother having a hard time moving on after the 
tragedy she's been through losing her husband and trying to raise her 
only son. The real horror doesn't come out that quick, but there is 
already a pretty compelling movie when it come to its characters. The 
tension is just the prize for being intrigued by the story's core.

One thing people must know about the film is it's not generally about 
The Babadook monster. In spite that the antagonist has an ambitiously 
great campy design and his story is told well by a twisted storybook 
with wondrously illustrated diorama, the movie is still laden on the 
more human element of the tale, which is the struggle of a mother who 
is unable to live normally. The pacing of her life may move too fast 
for the film, but the sadness and deprivation beneath those regular 
troubling days are totally manifested even without extending any of its 
breathing. The plot mostly concerns Amelia finding a way to overcome 
Samuel's behavioral issues and her memories with the accident than 
dealing with the whole supernatural threat, for sure it is trying to 
build some slow burn, but even without that horror movie sense, it 
still feels like they're being tormented by life.

It deliberately takes their personal grief seriously, making sure that 
they actually aren't insane, and nobody else could ever understand what 
they're going through. This is pretty much the most compelling view of 
the film, which makes them reasonably trapped into their own 
nightmares. Mister Babadook only becomes the boiling point of the 
ordeal. And when it hits to the part of the real scares, it sells well 
whenever the monster attacks. Instead of loud lazy jump scares, it 
rather spreads away signs of his presence and its effects to the 
family. His appearance has more terror if he's lurking in the shadows. 
It also has a nice use of practical effects to endure its very 
effective creeps. The performances of the two leads are outstanding for 
bringing the real heart of the picture. Essie Davis embraces the 
character, making her fear, depression, and shifting madness all 
visibly genuine. Same to the young Noah Wiseman who as well gives his 
character's actions some sense of anxiety.

Some horror fans might get slightly disappointed for not giving The 
Babadook monster enough of the characterization he deserves. The other 
story is a lot more interesting to follow than his diorama tricks, and 
that is why I keep stating that the the movie is best viewed as a 
gloomy fairytale about a mother and a son fighting to keep a hold of 
themselves and promise to protect each other from the odds, even if the 
promise doesn't always apply, than just another horror movie being 
shown in our theaters. While it still has the right amount of admirably 
campy scares, the film often explores to the larger and much affecting 
side of the story, and that sure offers beyond than what you expect to 
this stale genre.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film on Copenhagen pix yesterday. The movie was compared to
"the orphanage", and even though i liked that film i was a bit in doubt
if i should go for it because i was not in the mood for a heavy
emotional, mother and son horror-drama. But its everything but. Sure
its horror, sure its drama, but the tone is very different from the
Spanish movies around same kind of subject which are very serious.This
is way more fresh, snappy and sometimes funny actually, without being
lame. But also creepy, its the change of moods thats freaky. Nice
style. The actors are supreme and the whole socialrrealistic scene
around it is far out and overexagerated, which the horror part also is.
But it works, because its a metaphorical movie describing a feeling.
Its highly original. If you expect the same supernatural children
horror movie As you have seen before, think twice. This is new, this is
cool, different. The best movie i have seen in a year. Serious. It
never gets melodramatic, its fast, entertaining and a bit psychedelic.
Very refreshing. And smart, clever. It has it all. I am a big fan.
<|_=00=_|>
You've heard of feel-good films, well this is not one. It's creepy and
disturbing pretty well all the way, a good old horror fantasy with a
nod to the psychological canniness of Nightmare on Elm Street but much
more economical in terms of special effects, casting and I would
imagine budget. It nevertheless maintains tension and atmosphere along
with some high-flying dramatic sequences from the actors which bear
comparison with The Exorcist. The plot also connects nicely with the
psychological and existential conflicts facing a single mother whose
son's birth coincided with the tragic death of her husband, and the
whole nasty Babadook phenomenon, and its unresolved outcome, can
certainly be read as an allegory of this traumatic event. Maybe it's
over-reading to say the film also contains a Nietszchian lesson about
the importance of embracing every aspect of one's life and history, no
matter how horrific - but it works for me. The acting is amazingly good
from the two leads, although the supporting characters are a bit
stereotyped, a directing decision presumably. Sets and locations are
charged with a bleak gloom, and the colour accordingly verges on
monochrome. Love the specially made children's book, and Mr Babadook's
physical character, as well as the wonderfully curated vintage movie
footage appearing throughout on the TV screen. And a special word for
the very fine intricately crafted sound design.
<|_=00=_|>
The Babadook is written and directed by Jennifer Kent. It stars Essie
Davis, Noah Wiseman, Daniel Henshall and Hayley McElhinney. Music is by
Jed Kurzel and cinematography by Radek Ladczuk. 

Amelia is a single mother still haunted by the violent death of her
husband, she is trying to deal with her young son Samuel's fear of a
monster in the house. Initially tolerating it as a flight of fancy, the
arrival of a book in the youngster's bedroom called Mr. Babadook,
signals the start of a sinister presence that she herself can begin to
fear as well. 

Australia has been producing some great horror films in the last couple
of decades, The Babadook is one of the best of the bunch. Jennifer Kent
made it as a 10 minute short back in 2005 called Monster, itself a
super piece of horror film making, now in full feature length form
(Kent's first), the vision and intelligence explodes off the screen in
every frame. 

The premise at the core is not exactly fresh, but Kent manages to make
The Babadook its own entity, skilfully steering away from formula jolts
and terrors. Which in this day and age of horror retreads, sequel
frenzies and blood for blood's sake, is most refreshing. This is a big
character piece, a two hander of incredible emotional power, a mother
and son dealing with their own demons before the eponymous Mr. Babadook
enters the fray. We care about this pair of troubled souls, so much so
that as we start to feel the dread, get the tingles down the spine, our
hearts are also aching for them. The two performances of the actors
quite simply magnificent. 

Mr. Babadook is a pop-up picture book that suddenly arrives into their
lives. The creature is a sort of cross between a German expressionistic
nightmare and Jack the Ripper. The book itself is creepy enough in its
own right, more so as it starts to take on a more terrifying tone  and
Amelia proves unsuccessful at getting rid of the thing  the picture
starts playing its ace psychological cards. The monster is kept mostly
to the edges of the frames, or just popping up for a quick glance in
unexpected places, this is a great move and suits the narrative
perfectly. 

The tech credits are top notch. A key aspect to getting the most out of
The Babadook is to make sure the sound is loud, for the sound mix is
tremendous and can bring pounds of goose-flesh rising up on your arms.
Ladczuk's photography is at one with the themes pulsing away in the
story, the colours paled and cheerless, enhancing the fractured psyches
of mother and son, but Mr. Babadook is a jet black presence in this
landscape. All told the art design from the book to the house and the
creature is excellent. 

Umbrella's Australian All Region Blu-ray Release has a super transfer
and does justice to the sound mix. There's over an hour of interviews,
which are a mixed bag of informative chat and back slapping, a 12
minute behind the scenes making of and some trailers. The bonus is the
10 minute short, Monster, The Babadook in its infancy but no less scary
for it. 

The Babadook is a superlative horror film for adults, like when
Polanski met Kubrick and they decided to pay homage to Fritz Lang and
George Melies. Yes it's that good. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this film, its dark and unnerving without resorting to
loud bangs or "found footage" style filming to get its scares.

Low budget and well shot, the film leans on the power of suggestion and
tone to create a film which has a sense of unease throughout, tonally
like the Exorcist, where there is this underlying feeling of dread and
helplessness 

The scares are not spoon fed, so this won't be for everyone, if your
brand of horror is purely just modern films like Insidious or the
recent Annabelle - then this might not be for you.

One of my favourite films of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start off with a little disclaimer: I am very picky with my
horror movies made after the year 1990. Although some are excellent, I
feel that they are few and far in between. I strongly believe that this
is one of those few movies, and I urge you to watch it - no review
necessary. GO NOW! This is one of those movies that isn't
"in-your-face" scary, and it doesn't have jump-scares galore either.
It's subtle, suspenseful, and downright creepy. There is a point in
this movie where some believe the director lost the audience, but I beg
to differ. This simple plot-twist was used to DRIVE the plot, not BE
the plot (like in some other big- budget movies I won't name). The only
little complaint I have about this film is the ending. I feel like they
didn't know HOW to necessarily "kill the monster" properly and wanted a
happier ending then most horror movies these days, but that only knocks
this one down by one star for me. Now, before I spoil anything for you,
I suggest you go and make up your own mind about this new horror
classic. This is definitely one I wish we could have had in theaters
this past Halloween, I'd buy two tickets!
<|_=00=_|>
It's a rare thing when I give anything labeled horror more than a
passing glance. The genre has become so completely oversaturated by
teen slasher flicks, soulless gorefests and inferior remakes. Having
said that I'd heard enough to convince me this may be one of the rare
exceptions, unsurprisingly this is a low-key non-Hollywood affair. 

Of course there have been enough horrors over the years for a pretty
well defined list of tropes to be a known part of the movie-going
consciousness. While The Babadook does deviate from the standard affair
we all know and are mostly bored of, it does bring in a few of the more
classic tropes, the problem child, the distraught mother and thankfully
the illusive villain. Throw in a fair dose of questionable insanity and
you have a recipe for a decent classic style horror. 

In this respect it doesn't disappoint, of course it can't hold up to
Rosemary's Baby, The Exorcist or The Shining but it is certainly
familiar of those and in no bad way. Paying tasteful homage to
inspirations is acceptable if the movie can stand up on its own weight
and in this it succeeds. 

The actual premise itself seems fairly original, although not
groundbreaking, the shocks come from the actions of the characters
rather than any clichéd jump-scare tactics. As others have mentioned,
the underlying metaphor is not too subtle but surely that's part of
what adds to the tension. 

There was some really good editing throughout, keeping the feel of a
fast paced movie while not rushing the story. The kid actor in it does
an excellent job of appearing genuinely disturbed but simultaneously
good natured. 

The Babadook may not be a groundbreaker, I don't expect it to redefine
the genre and I doubt it will appeal to the younger horror demographic,
but if like me you yearn for the spirit of the classics to resurface
once in a while, this is a pretty good attempt.

And provided the promise of no sequels is kept, this is one that will
hold up well for some time.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not a typical horror movie and that's also what makes it great.
There are some bad reviews here but what I always do is check out the
reviewers... I pick one that said the film was horrible and one that
said it was great. A quick check on their profile and looking at their
other reviews helps give me some perspective on their taste. For
example one of the bad reviewers on here enjoyed the movie Jessabelle.
While not an awful movie. It's also a movie for dumb people. Simple and
easy to understand and nothing really spectacular goes on. The acting
is mediocre and the script predictable. It's like a high school film.
She also gave Night at the Museum 10 stars. So you can tell she is
probably a teenager. I do that with just about every movie I watch on
Netflix. To help me not waste time. It's amazing because there are a
ton of great movies that get average ratings here, and a ton of average
movies that get really high ratings here. Like The Conjuring. That got
very high ratings and it just wasn't that great. It was good but not a
stand out. America has really really bad taste in film. Actually, in
just about every genre of art. We have zero culture , and the rest of
the world considers us it's blonde cousin for a reason. We are the
dumbest nation in the world. But if a movie gets really high reviews
here and those reviews are overwhelmingly good, you can bet it's a
pretty good movie. At the least well made and entertaining. This movie
stands out for a few reasons and here are the reasons it stood out for
me . Because it is totally original. And it's so candid about
parenthood.. Any parent can relate to this film, esp if they have kids
with "issues" or that have been through a lot in their small lives. It
captured perfectly the slightly troubled child. I too think that it
showed what I know I've experienced as a single mom with two kids ..
That need for space that you just don't get. The need for adult
interaction that you also don't get if you don't allow yourself it. So
there is a deep well here for character study and relationship
dynamics.. I mean deep as in horror movies. So, on top of that the
movie is freaky and strange and frightening . This is by far way more
of a mind f*** than any Rob Zombie movie for me. A lot of people Really
appreciate that kind of movie , like The Hills Have Eyes. They want the
most disturbing , cruel , disgusting things to watch. I'm not them . I
have to believe a movie for it to be put in the good box. Although
those movies are entertainment , they also are like a prank in a way .
Like all the directors got together for a game of Spin the Bottle and
the ones that made like the Texas Chainsaw films asked for Dare. This
movie isn't going to appeal to kids. , isn't going to appeal to the
Hills Have Eyes fan club, the people that don't like to expend any
energy on thinking , or just in general have short and shallow
attention spans that they really a can't focus on anything that isn't
doing something horrible is happening.
