
This is my first review on the IMDb website and i have been a member
for more that 9 years now, that's who much i loved this movie. It just
give you that positive thoughts and energy within a lovely comedian
scenario. 

I loved how they mix between the classic culture with the modern one.
It was very interesting to watch how they remind our generation about
the habits which they are missing from the classic one.

De Niro and Anne Hathaway have excellent work chemistry. Director and
camera teams made a great job too... Team work, thank you for this
lovely movie...
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the trailer for 'The Intern' sometime ago, advertised before 'Spy
(2015)'. I liked the premise and the two lead actors, so today (the
premiere in Romania) I had to watch it.

I expected a fun, neat comedy but what I experienced was so much more:
a great plot, brilliantly executed and acted. The jokes and fun parts
were on point, and the world the movie created felt very authentic,
immersive and a joy to watch on the big screen - this was helped by
amazing costuming and cinematography.

The entire cast had very strong chemistry between them, and both
Hathaway and De Niro were wonderful.

Overall an awesome, heartwarming movie. I walked out of the movie
theater with a smile.
<|_=00=_|>
The Intern .... The sweetest, most perfect And heart touching I have
seen in a long time. Of course it helps that Robert De Niro is there
but what a movie! This is what all movies should be.

Robert De Niro plays the perfect gentleman, the kind we don't see
anymore. And every woman who sees the movie will fall a bit in love
with him. Anne Hathaway perfectly plays the role of a successful
entrepreneur, a working wife and mom who thinks about everything and
everyone and still feels guilty about being a working woman, even after
the perfect gentleman tells her He should not be the feminist amongst
the two of them. Every working woman will identify with her inner
struggles. The story is perfect, with the perfect practical ending, as
life is always more practical than idealistic. The small touches like
the housewives who look down upon the working mom and make her feel
guilty (I have seen many of those), the successful aggressive
entrepreneur's fear of hurting her mom, the stay-at-home dad's
end-of-day exhaustion that the working mom does not really understand
and the young boss' discomfort with her elderly intern... All so real.
There's an idea here which I spoke about long back... The huge talent
pool of retired people nobody is willing to hire. The intern's wisdom
and practicality brings a calm and peace to the busy boss' life.
There's a lesson here for us all here. Look at our elders and learn
from them. Stop a while in your busy life to get more out of it.

Loved the movie, hope everyone of my generation sees it.
<|_=00=_|>
As far as on screen pairings go, 'The Intern' boasts probably one of
the most interesting ones in recent memory. On one hand is Robert De
Niro's 70-year-old Ben Whittaker, presently struggling to deal with the
concept of retirement; on the other is Anne Hathaway's 32-year-old
Jules Ostin, the founder and CEO of a tremendously successful
fashion-based e-commerce company called 'About the Fit' or 'ATF' for
short' who is presently struggling to deal with the demands of her
investors while not neglecting her six-year-old daughter and stay- home
husband. Diametrically opposite as they may be, writer/ director Nancy
Meyers wants to prove that these two individuals can have much more to
learn from each other than you and I can imagine.

So through a community outreach programme which one of her company's
executives hatched, Ben finds his away into ATF as a senior intern
after impressing some of the much younger employees with his warm sense
of humour, his cheery can-do demeanour and proving least likely among
his competition to drop dead while on the job (yes, we mean this
literally). Despite Jules' initial chagrin, that same executive assigns
Ben directly to Jules in order to set an example for the rest of the
employees in the company. And as the trailers would have you know, Ben
will slowly but surely overcome her reservations with a keen sensitive
eye and an unerring professionalism, eventually becoming not just a
calming ear amidst the day to day chaos at the workplace but also an
invaluable source of advice for her professional and personal woes.

Just so you know, De Niro and Hathaway do not eventually fall in love
with each other, so you can rest easy if you're wondering or worried if
things would eventually get weird or awkward between them; and to put
that at rest, Meyers finds De Niro a romantic interest in Rene Russo's
in-house massage therapist Fiona and occupies Hathaway with the
discovery that her husband (Anders Holm) has been cheating on her with
the stay-home mother of her daughter's schoolmate. It is also in the
latter where De Niro will come most prominently to play counsellor and
confidante, nudging her not to blame her workaholic tendencies for her
husband's infidelity. Oh yes, there is a message of empowerment and
encouragement for all career mothers within  and a slap on the face if
you will have it for their other halves who use that as an excuse to
commit adultery.

In keeping with her recent movies, Meyers has eschewed male- dominated
Hollywood stereotype by fashioning Jules as a strong, opinionated and
successful female individual who can be a hands-on CEO to over 220
employees at her company while being a dedicated mother and loving
wife. Her response to her husband's infidelity isn't to fall in love
with a fellow co-worker or to divorce him immediately; rather, she
wants to give him a second chance, believing that a re-affirmation of
their mutual love for each other will convince him to end his affair
once and for all. You may disagree  as Ben does  with whether she is
being naïve, but hey it's undeniably still a strong gutsy move for a
woman to put aside her pride and her hurt to offer forgiveness and to
choose to stay together.

Meyers also has yet another intention here, and that is to quash ageism
at the workplace. It isn't just coincidence that the company Ben joins
is in the Internet business; as incongruous as his presence may be in
an industry that arguably does not appeal to his age demographic,
Meyers wants to let the young upstart CEOs of today's tech companies
know that  as the tagline goes  experience never gets old and that
there is something that the Gen-Y leaders can learn from their Gen-X
counterparts. You can almost hear Meyers' own lament through Jules that
the men of today are a far cry from the likes of Jack Nicholson and
Harrison Ford, and that just as Jules does, we will find something to
learn from the silver-haired members of our workforce.

Both are equally poignant lessons, but perhaps not so wieldy in the
same movie. Meyers tries to convey the latter first, and does so quite
persuasively through a mixture of situational comedy and punchlines
that are gently amusing but never by way of caricature  indeed, the
closest she comes to farce is an 'Oceans' Eleven' like 'heist' led by
Ben to break into Jules' mother's house and delete an email that Jules
had accidentally sent to her mother. The first hour of the movie
cruises by like a breeze, in large part as well thanks to De Niro's
spot-on comic timing that he hasn't lost since the last sequel of 'Meet
the Parents'. There is also much delight to be had watching De Niro and
Hathaway break the ice between their respective characters, their
dynamic sincere, heartfelt and genuinely affable.

Unfortunately, Meyers doesn't quite do the former as well, and the
latter half of the movie sags as a result of a more melodramatic change
in tone and pace. Not to trivialise women in similar predicaments, but
it isn't quite so convincing just why Jules' husband would cheat on her
in the first place and a tad too convenient how Ben comes to chance
upon the fact which ends up putting him in a moral quandary. 

And though Meyers' screenplay could do with some work, it is the sheer
effervescent chemistry between De Niro and Hathaway that keeps the
movie afloat. Both are equally lovely in their respective roles, and
the strength of their performances is enough to make you forgive the
fact that their characters are probably too good-natured to be true.
Yes, 'The Intern' works best when it is a two-hander between its
unlikely on screen pairing, and fizzles out especially in the last
third once it decides to make three a crowd.
<|_=00=_|>
The Intern is what I call a "paint by the numbers" film. It hits all
the necessary notes for this sort of comedy but misses the point of
what a movie is supposed to be, like a paint by the numbers painting
misses the point of art. It's like a robot has got the premise, seen a
lot of comedy/drama-ish feel good films like Driving Miss Daisy, Devil
Wears Prada, etc, and decided to spit out a screenplay. It doesn't
work, and what does work, is sustained by the actors performances.

The main problem with the film is the lack of structure. The main
protagonist is Ben, at least, that's what the audience is supposed to
be led to believe. His life starts the film, he is the one that leads
the audience to the situation, but he has no flaws. He has no dilemma.
He has absolutely no character arc. He is a widower with too much free
time and sort of has a void to be filled, I guess? He doesn't seem to
be suffering, and all of his problems are solved at the first 5
minutes. Done. What is his change after that? Nothing. He is a perfect
gentleman who does not learn anything in particular, does not grow, has
no epiphany or real change. He is a mentor figure, he is not a
protagonist.

Jules is the protagonist, but I guess the director did not know that
fact. She sort of has a character arc, but it goes by so awkwardly it's
just confusing. She has problems with her marriage, which are sort of
represented by her husband sleeping when she wants to have sex. She
seems to have trouble managing the company, but characters SAY she is
having trouble, we don't see it. We have no sense of urgency, no
crisis, characters SAY she has trouble managing it all. First rule of
film media is: SHOW, don't tell.

Then there's the whole husband cheating subplot that was sort of
created to add tension and drama, but falls so flat it's unbelievable.
First, the audience learns about the cheating first, and then the
protagonist states she already knows about it. Well thanks for letting
us know, you gave us NO indication that was a problem. Second, it is
resolved as a Deus Ex Machina, he just begs for her forgiveness and for
some weird reason, she's just OK with it. I don't buy it.

Then there are the annoying minor characters that have almost no
development, and the most annoying writing decision in the film: adding
a scene where they break into the mother's home to delete an e-mail,
JUST for the sake of adding a frantic, fast paced highly comical scene
where one was needed. It goes absolutely against character! Ben offered
to break into the house? What? WHY? He was supposed to be a down to
earth, calm, wise man who would know better that Jules talking to her
mother and explaining her feelings would be better than doing an
illegal break in a mother's home.

Rene Russo's character is a waste, added for two reasons: clichéd,
juvenile comedy (oh, he is aroused by that older woman, how hilarious!
oh, the fat guy interrupted that massage and could NOT get out of the
room silently, so funny!), and to just make the audience accept Ben was
seeing someone else and would not, under any circumstances, fall for
Anne Hathaway's character (so the hotel room scene is not as awkward as
it must he felt while writing it).

Characters just do the most bizarre things just for the sake of hitting
the points the movie wants to hit, and it goes absolutely nowhere. Does
Ben get the CEO job he so OBVIOUSLY deserved? Nope. He just does Tai
Chi and that's it.

There is no turn to a second or third act. The whole thing is muddled,
confusing, paced so awkwardly you'd assume there is a real plot cut
from the movie. Maybe it was a murder mystery, I don't know. The whole
thing is lacking a proper movie structure.

Now, the only reason this deserves a 5/10 and not a 1/10, is the acting
chops of Anne Hathaway and Robert DeNiro, who does NOT fake in an
acting job as he has done for the past years. He keeps it consistent,
keeps it believable, hits the tone and sells of that character. I mean,
imagine Bill Murray in that same role. It would not work, because we
would not see past the actor when the character is so low-key. DeNiro
can do it because he is one of the best, he knows how to pull it off,
and he does.

I am saddened by the lost potential. I really like the premise, someone
older getting into a modern workplace, learning and teaching. If we got
this movie's screenplay and asked for, let's say, Lawrence Kasdan to do
one additional rewrite, it would be an instant classic. Oh well. Better
luck next time.
<|_=00=_|>
I caught an advance screening of this last night. The theater was close
to being packed with men, woman and children. The movie was
surprisingly quite funny; didn't know anything about it before viewing.
The entire theater ended up cracking up numerous times. There were
various times I felt bad for De Niro's character, but he was optimistic
and didn't let it effect him, so it was great. There were a couple of
instances I would have never guessed things about the movie. There is
one scenario in the story that is tough; what would you do if put in
that circumstance. I believe ages 20-80 can relate to this movie. We
had De Niro's aspect as well as Hathaway's. Good storyline. The
"Intern" group of guys were funny too. I'd see this again.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes you go to the theater, and you cringe at some of the
previews, most of which are full of sex, violence, and an apocalyptic
view of the world. It's hard to find a movie that is respectable and
clean, with charm and wit, one that is suitable for thinking adults.
"The Intern" is such a movie. 

Robert DeNiro is superb. How a guy who played such ruthless characters
in "Goodfellas" and "Taxi Driver" can pull off this avuncular gentlemen
is a testament to his craft. His Ben Whittaker almost seems too
perfect, but DeNiro brings a humanity that makes him eminently
believable. Anne Hathaway does a fine turn as the Internet
entrepreneur, and fleshes out well what could have been a cartoon
character of the Übermom. The supporting cast supports wonderfully,
giving the stars plenty of room to shine, not distracting from the
story. And the plot never goes where it shouldn't, something that does
happen in other, more cynical films. 

So I would very highly recommend this film. It has some "legs," as
evidenced by the fairly sizable audience given that it's in its sixth
week of release. You know why? You'll leave the theater entertained and
uplifted. And how often can you say that at the cinema these days?
<|_=00=_|>
Robert De Niro, as a retired 70 year old who re-enters the work force
and proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that oldies are still
goodies.also proves just why he is a star as he shines so bright in
this movie as to be blinding. He is perfection. There are some actors
that the older they get, the better they get, and De Niro is most
certainly one. Anne Hathaway, as the genius behind a too-fast growing
company is playing what I consider one of her best roles yet. And Rene
Russo is still gorgeous as ever. I was impressed, also, by Anders Holm
who played Hathaway's husband. But then, actually, I was impressed with
everyone in this movie. There really wasn't a single thing or character
I would change in this one, and that's saying something. The casting,
the plot, the dialogueand fancy this, it was a funny, touching,
enjoyable picture with NO foul language, NO overly-suggestive crude
garbage that usually just makes the audience cringe. It was well
written, well -acted, and well presented. All rare these days where
just the writing ability seems to have dwindled into the dirt. This one
is evidence that there are still writers and creators who have talent
out there. More movie producers should make a point of seeking and
finding them! This is a fun movie that you are going to be recommending
to everyone within reading or hearing distance. One of the best films
we've seen in some time and left us all smiling as we left the
building.
<|_=00=_|>
Wonderful contemporary story, great acting. What more can one ask for?
DeNiro totally inhabits the role of a bored NewYorker retiree who
quietly, commandingly changes everyone around him for the better. There
were little bits of sentimental predictability but not many. Nothing
slowed the pace for long. It was lovely to see ageism front and center,
blasted to smithereens! Subtle, believable performances that did not
pander to the problems of aging, but acknowledged them. The boys "road
trip" was hilarious. The "boys" themselves were presented as
stereotypes but managed to imbue them with personality. There were some
great laugh out loud moments! Nicely cast, well-written plot and
characters. Go see it! Especially if you are over 60!
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes you don't need a film to try and change the world, make bold
political or societal statements or even be shocking. Sometimes it's
good enough to be an audience member who can just sit back, relax and
enjoy the show and smile. That's the kind of movie you get when you
sit down to enjoy "The Intern" (PG-13, 2:01).

Robert DeNiro plays the title character, a retired 70 year-old widower
who has become bored with his life. After 40 years in the business of
printing telephone books and then losing his beloved wife of 42 years,
he did his best to adjust to his new life, and it worked  for a while.
He traveled the world and engaged in a wide variety of physical and
intellectual pursuits to keep himself occupied, but it wasn't enough.
When walking the streets of his native Brooklyn, he sees a flyer for a
senior intern program at a young, but burgeoning internet clothing
company. Ben feels that learning more about technology and working with
young people feels like just the challenge he needs to occupy his mind
and his time. He applies, via a terrific self-made video (the company's
requirement), and sits through a series of amusing interviews with
company employees young enough to be his grandchildren and he gets the
internship.

Ben ends up working directly for the company's very capable, but
over-extended founder, played by Anne Hathaway. The senior intern
program was her idea, but Jules is initially hesitant to deal with Ben
personally on a daily basis. She's a perfectionist who's constantly on
the go. She's difficult to work for and she knows it. She loves and
respects all 220 of her employees, but her motto might as well be "If
you want something done right, you have to do it yourself." Yet, it's
hard to resist Ben's earnestness, strong work ethic and wise, calming
presence. After a little awkwardness as Ben and Jules both try to
figure out how he can best serve his new boss, he ends up becoming her
driver. In this capacity, he gets to know Jules' stay-at-home husband
(Anders Holm), their precocious, but adorable young daughter (JoJo
Kushner) and, most importantly, Jules herself, in all her earnestness,
anxiety and vulnerability.

It turns out that, at this stage of the game, Jules needs Ben's wisdom
and support more than she'd be willing to admit  to him or herself.
Her company is growing so fast and she's so hands-on that one of her
assistants (Andrew Rannells) tells her that the investors would like to
see her take on a CEO. This would lighten her load, but it would also
mean effectively giving control of her company to someone else. She
half-heartedly interviews people to be her potential boss, not sure
that this is the best move, but wanting to do right by her employees
and her marriage, which is starting to suffer due to the demands of her
very busy schedule. In the midst of all this, Ben becomes a sounding
board and occasional advice dispenser for Jules, a very helpful
co-worker and kind of pseudo uncle to a small group of the company's
young employees (played by Adam DeVine, Zack Pearlman, Jason Orley and
Christina Scherer) and a possible love interest for the company's
full-time in-house masseuse (Rene Russo).

Ben is at the story's center, but it's the great mix of interesting
characters and subplots that makes this movie so worthwhile. DeNiro has
rarely been more pleasant to watch, or Hathaway so winning, as they
lead an ensemble cast that complements each other wonderfully. Nancy
Myers' amusing and purposeful script and direction highlight the
virtues of women making the most of their lives, but never hits us over
the head with her message. Jules is simply a modern woman who's very
likable and subtly inspiring. A scene in which some of Jules' employees
break the law to help her with a pressing personal problem is fun, but
seems misplaced, and the resolutions to some of the story's conflicts
seem a little trite, but, overall, this is simply a delightful film
that I'd recommend to anyone. "The Intern" isn't perfect, but is
definitely worth having around. "A-"
