
"A suburban couple becomes embroiled in an international espionage plot
when they discover that their seemingly perfect new neighbors are
government spies. " The comedy of "Keeping Up with the Joneses" comes
from exaggeration. Mottola and screenwriter Michael LeSieur play up a
suburban oasis for Jeff and Karen, with the pair living an idyllic life
in a beautiful home. She's an interior designer, he's a practiced
corporate negotiator, and while their marriage is stable, it's become
flavorless. You've seen these characters before, and the production
does little to disturb expectations, highlighting sexual dysfunction in
the household, with newfound summertime freedom inspiring thoughts of
savage coupling, only to have the pair maintain distance out of habit.
There's no twist, no larger message of love. Jeff and Karen are set up
as cheerful nothings easily overwhelmed by the arrival of Tim and
Natalie, who stun their neighbors with flawless style, beauty, and
sophistication. They're incredible, bewitching the community with tales
of international travel and the display of impressive dart-throwing
skills.

Gal Gadot is always good at playing at the sexy lady and Jon Hamm was
good at playing his manipulating and sly character. There's hardly any
jokes that work in the movie, and if it wasn't for Isla Fisher and Zach
Galifianakis's improvisational Comedy it would've flopped big time! The
movie had one of the biggest disappointing showdowns we've ever seen.
All in all, it's not a disastrous movie, but your best bet is to rent
it on Netflix. 5/10. 2/5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a pretty good comedy. 

The average Suburban family gets a new neighbors, who are more than
what they seem. Nothing out of the ordinary.

Zach Galifianakis and Isla Fisher made a cute couple in the movie. very
good comedy duo in an mediocre film.

Jon Hamm is a fantastic straight man for the comedy that Galifianakis
was dishing out. 

Gal Gadot is impressive. She's the one who has to keep up with the
other three and she does a good job. i don't think I've seen her do
anything outside the Fast and Furious movies so it was nice to see that
she can do something else.

I know i'm sitting here writing about the film, but for the most part
there is really is not anything to write about. It gives you enough
laughs so I feel like I did not waste my cash, but it's definitely not
a movie you'll remember down the road. Nothing spectacular.
<|_=00=_|>
I've got a thing for spy comedies, I've seen most of the recent ones
and many of the older ones. It's a genre so based on plot twists that
most of them can be seen a mile away, especially if you've already seen
some. This one is no different. No real plot twist is really
surprising, including the final joke. And still, I had loads of fun
watching it, because most of the jokes are actually character driven,
and the characters are very well written, and well performed by most.
That is, Isla Fisher, Zach Galifianakis and Jon Hamm, are practically
super. Gal Gadot got the warrior woman with the menacing looks nailed
to the teeth, but is a bit less convincing when she has to be sensitive
or subtle. It doesn't happen often during the movie, so it's not a big
issue, but there are a few moments in which she's off character. But
everybody else around does such a good job, the jokes work, and the
pace is fast enough for us not to care it's not so very surprising. 

I liked it, most of the people around me in the cinema liked it too. If
you don't expect a masterpiece, just plain simple fun - you'll find it
here.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Dozens of movies through the years
make up the Spy Action-Comedy segment. Most of these lean heavily on
either action (Mr. and Mrs. Smith, Red, Knight and Day) or comedy
(Austin Powers, Get Smart, Date Night). The latest entry from director
Greg Mottola and writer Michael LeSieur offers a more balanced approach
while being somewhat grounded in familiar suburbia. Perfect casting
certainly helps.

Comedies are the toughest genre to review because the only thing that
matters  does it cause you to laugh?  depends on the sense of humor
of each viewer and even their frame of mind while watching. So what I
can report is that the full theatre at my screening was filled with
enthusiastic laughter multiple times, along with a pretty steady stream
of chuckles and giggling. This will undoubtedly vary from the accounts
of uppity film critics who will discount the basic plot and obvious
laughs (which is the whole point).

A James Bond-type opening credit sequence sets the tone as we abruptly
shift to watching Jeff and Karen Gaffney (Zach Galifianakias, Isla
Fisher) sending off their two sons to summer camp before returning home
to their idealistic cul-de-sac suburban home. Things pick up when the
new neighbors, Tim and Natalie Jones, arrive  a seemingly perfect
couple played by Jon Hamm and Gal Gadot. They are the type of couple
who are beautiful to look at, stylishly dressed, and even show up with
a blown-glass sculpture as a gift for their new neighbors.

Of course, this perfect couple is really married spies seeking
information from the military weapons contractor where Jeff works as a
Human Resources associate. It's Karen who senses something is off about
the perfect couple, which leads to her stalking Natalie all the way to
a dressing room where she is comically intimidated by Wonder Woman in
black lingerie. On a side note, Ms. Fisher does have a later sequence
where she proves to be anything but a homely housewife, despite how
that dressing room scene is presented.

The men head off for some male bonding  at a highly unusual specialty
restaurant, leading to one of the more manic sequences in the movie.
The four leads are all excellent, but it's Gal Gadot who is the real
surprise  and her scenes with Ms. Fisher are the film's best. Both are
allowed to shine, while the men are a bit more one dimensional.
Galifianakias is the all-trusting good guy just happy to have some
excitement in his life, while Hamm is the super cool spy (who wishes he
wasn't). Both men seem to enjoy the chance to make friends, while the
women are a bit more focused on tasks at hand.

Director Mottola is known for his films Adventureland and Superbad, and
writer LeSieur is best known for Me, You and Dupree. The impressive
thing about this latest is that the comedy mostly derives from
character and situational interactions, and the expected steady stream
of punchlines never materializes. There is even some insight into
marriages that have become a bit too predictable, and the challenges of
making new friends when all available energy is devoted to parenting
and making ends meet.

In addition to the four leads, there are some funny moments for
Maribeth Monroe, Matt Walsh and Kevin Dunn. The brilliant Patton Oswalt
is cast as the self-nicknamed villain, and is responsible for one of
the film's biggest laughs.

Of course, this is not subtle or high-brow humor, and the story line is
predictable throughout. The laughs stem from the contrast of a subdued,
comfy suburban life versus the sophisticated, over-accomplished
jet-setting couple  laughs clearly enhanced by the talented leads. So
while this seems like the kind of movie I would usually ignore, perhaps
it arrives at a time when laughing is simply preferable to the daily
grind of an embarrassing and humiliating Presidential race. So go ahead
and give laughter a chance  it works even better than a stress ball.
<|_=00=_|>
"Ten years, thirty countries no one finds us out and we can't even last
a week in suburbia." Jeff (Galifianakis) and Karen (Fisher) Gaffney are
a normal suburban couple with an average non-exciting life. When a new
couple moves into the neighborhood they become friends with them, but
the new couple has a secret. Now Jeff and Karen are put in the middle
of a deadly high stakes deal with no idea what they are doing. First
thing I have to say about this is that the movie is really funny and
entertaining. There really isn't anything all that new and the movie is
a little cookie cutter, but the acting and jokes make it seem fresh and
exciting. The chemistry between all four of the actors is almost
perfect and really helps the movie a ton. This movie won't win any
awards or become a classic, but it is hilarious and I laughed
throughout the entire thing. That is what a good comedy should do. I
would compare this to Central Intelligence. You pretty much know what's
going to happen the entire time, but you can't stop watching and
laughing. Overall, a little generic and predictable but a movie that
will keep you laughing and extremely entertained the entire time. This
is a great watch. I give this a B+.
<|_=00=_|>
"Keeping Up with the Joneses" is one fun and funny feel comedy drama
that seems a little unreal still it entertains! Set in Atlanta, Georgia
in an area that's nice a suburban couple Jeff(Zach Galifianakis)and
Karen(Isla Fisher)seem to have the perfect life then all of a sudden
their life is turned upside down by a new couple who move in next door
named Tim Jones(Jon Hamm)and Natalie(Gal Gadot). Soon strange things
start to happen and it's seems odd, but soon it appears that an
international spy plot might be going on! Aside from that this film is
funny and full of good one liners and sexy scenes especially the one of
Gal Gadot in the try on room with all of those sexy colored bras, and
Tim and Natalie even tie up and duct tape the mouth's of Karen and
Jeff's neighbors. Really a wild and crazy type of a film, probably not
everyone's cup of tea still it's worth a watch due to it's laughs and
sexy scenes a tease with two beautiful ladies in Gal Gadot and Isla
Fisher, so if your looking for a carefree feel good time then give this
movie a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
The Gaffneys' lives are interrupted by the arrival of new neighbours,
whose stunning looks are matched only by the sophistication of their
lives. 

Tim Jones is an accomplished travel writer, and his wife, Natalie, is a
social media consultant, cooking blogger and heroine to Sri Lankan
orphans. 

The Gaffneys soon find themselves in the centre of international
espionage that gives them a glimpse of life outside their comfort
zone.........

Keeping Up With The Joneses is one of those comedies that offers
absolutely nothing new to the genre of comedy, and basically borrows
from films that are a lot better than this, and funnily enough, a lot
worse.

If this was made in the eighties, it would have starred Steve Martin
and Shelly Long as the atypical suburban couple, and probably Michael
Douglas and Kathleen Turner as the titular couple, and it would have
been an absolute smash, because it would have felt relatively fresh.

Jump forward thirty years, and with films like Mr & Mrs. Smith,
Killers, Housesitter, and a never ending plethora of fish out of water
comedies, it feels stale, well worn, and relies on the star power of
the cast.

The thing is, Galfiniakas is way out of his comfort zone playing the
Everyman, and Gal Gadot is incredibly wooden in her role. So much in
fact, it's setting the alarm bells ringing for Wonder Woman.

So the couple get into scrapes, find a little excitement in their
mundane lives, and just like True Lies, assist in the final 'hilarious'
act when special guest star Patton Oswald makes his appearance as the
end of game bad guy.

But it isn't a terrible film, there are a couple of amusing moments,
and Fisher plays the jittery housewife with panache, but you can't see
those two as a couple.

If you want a comedy that is safe, and offers nothing new, then you may
get a few giggles out of it.

Otherwise, if you never see this movie, trust me, you've already seen
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I already watch Zach Galifianakis's films before like Hangover, Due
Date and I laughed out loud. Compared to those films, Keeping Up with
the Joneses doesn't make me that laughed out loud like the other films
did. But I really like the act from Zach Galifianakis. He has a comedy
sense that get me. Also Gal Gadot plays made me cant take off my eyes
of her. She is just amazing and good at being spy and good at shooting.
The plot is very good, the comedy is not very hard funny but still
entertaining to watch at your home. summary I'm entertained of this
film.
<|_=00=_|>
Keeping Up with the Joneses is a good movie with a reasonably well
developed plot and a fantastic comedic cast. The highlight of the film
is certainly the connection and chemistry between the four main cast
members, all of the individual relationships between Zach Galifanakis,
Isla Fisher, Jon Hamm and Gal Gadot is what makes this movie watchable.
They all have great comedic timing with one another, it was clear they
had trust in each other.

I did feel the plot did not go as far as a viewer would expect a film
about spies to go. The final act is very underwhelming, as we are
expecting this big blow out, but it actually ends up being very
straight forward and predictable, nothing shocking or truly exciting
really occurs. 

As well as that, it simply is not as funny as it should have been. I
had higher hopes with a cast like this, I was expecting a laugh a
minute sort of movie, but there are several scenes without a single
good joke in there. The writing came across as somewhat lazy, as if
they gave up halfway through. 

It does show that a film that is verging on mediocrity can be saved
simply by the sincere chemistry between its lead cast. While it is
certainly flawed, Keeping up with the Joneses is still mindless fun,
worth the watch if you are looking for a good comedy, but do not go out
of your way to see it. 

A suburban couple discover their new neighbours are undercover spies. 

Best Performance: Jon Hamm
<|_=00=_|>
'Keeping Up with the Joneses' is a fair Spy-Comedy, that has some fun
moments. Its got some laughs, despite all the silliness around. What
else did you expect anyway?

'Keeping Up with the Joneses' Synopsis: A suburban couple becomes
embroiled in an international espionage plot when they discover that
their seemingly perfect new neighbors are government spies.

Zach Galifianakis, Jon Hamm, Isla Fisher and Gal Gadot are the true
strengths of 'Keeping Up with the Joneses'. Zach is happily stupid &
raises some good laughs, Fisher is fabulous, Hamm is anything but a ham
& Gadot is the hottest thing you'll see on the big screen in a long
time. The 4 talented actors sportingly deliver in this predictable
comedy, showing us their potential yet again.

Michael LeSieur's Screenplay is fair, with some hilarity in store,
while Greg Mottola's Direction is satisfactory, at best.

On the whole, 'Keeping Up with the Joneses' is a great way to kill a
dull afternoon.
