
Brooklyn is a film about Eilis, who crosses the Atlantic to America in
the 1950s. She is a mildly career-motivated young Irish woman who is
handed a dream opportunity without ever asking for it. Contrary to what
typical immigrant protagonists are like, she neither really works her
way up to success nor once finds herself in a life-and-death situation.
Rather, this film shows us that a woman of just a usual background can
tell an important story that is surprisingly relevant to us all.

The main contributor to that surprise is the lead actress, Saoirse
Ronan, who plays her role meticulously while also constantly owning the
tone of the film. Her delicate and sincere portrayal makes all Eilis's
issues, however selfish or insignificant they may seem at first,
materialize in your mind, and makes you hope that her pain will somehow
ease. Already a one-time Oscar nominee, Ronan reaffirms her acting
strength with this exceptional performance. Of all emerging young adult
lead actresses, she is likely the most charismatic one in 5 years since
Jennifer Lawrence in Winter's Bone.

From start to finish, Eilis feels just like a girl-next-door. That
homey feeling extends to Emory Cohen's Tony, an Italian plumber she
meets in the New World. With their small height difference, she almost
towers over him in her shoes as they stroll outside, which, helped by
their natural chemistry, gives them the authenticity of a couple that
you might actually know in real life, as opposed to one of Hollywood's
ideal.

This film is a remedy for anyone who is losing faith in good
filmmaking. It is a splendid reminder that you can tell a great story
without resorting to excessive twists and effects. With the remarkable
performances from the entire cast, there is hardly a dull minute in the
film, and it only gets more interesting towards the end. Speaking of
the end, Eilis's tips to a new immigrant she meets at the end still
hold very true today. They are not only the best advice that you could
ever hear from anyone, but also evidence that America is and has always
been the land of opportunity.
<|_=00=_|>
Brian Friel's "Philadelphia, Here I Come" is still the great fictional
work of the last 50 years or so to deal with the Irish Diaspora but
Colm Toibin's "Brooklyn" runs it a close second. Sadly, the only film
version of Friel's play was a somewhat dull affair, part of the
American Film Theatre series. It preserved a great play but it wasn't
much of a film, whereas John Crowley's screen version of Toibin's novel
is as close to perfect as we are likely to get. It preserves the feel
of the book, (thanks to a flawless adaptation by Nick Hornby), but this
is also a real film; large, expansive, magical and one of the best
films you are likely to see this year.

It's the story of one young girl's awakening, to the world and to
herself. She's Eilis and at the start of the film she is moving from
her home town of Enniscorthy in Ireland's County Wexford to Brooklyn, a
world away on the other side of the Atlantic. She goes at the behest of
her sister, Rose so she might have a life that might otherwise be
denied her back in Ireland. Homesick at first, she finally finds
happiness with a hugely likable and very handsome Italian boy until a
family tragedy forces her to return to Ireland.

It's a simple tale, made complex by conflicting emotions and a welter
of detail. It's funny and sad and bursting with life. Brooklyn is a
place of happiness and giving; Enniscorthy a place of sadness and
resentment, though on Eilis' return, a fuller and more confident woman,
it too offers the potential for happiness in the form of a new job and,
more crucially, a new boyfriend. This return also offers a quandary;
should she stay or return to Brooklyn, as well as an ending more tinged
with sadness than might appear on the surface.

Nothing about this wonderful film can be faulted, (except perhaps the
appalling trailer that's doing the rounds). The period detail is
superb, beautifully captured in Yves Belanger's gorgeous
cinematography, (the costumes are crucial and they are perfect). Here
is a period piece, (it's set in 1952), that could have been made in the
year in which it's set and the director, John Crowley, imbues it with
great feeling.

Best of all, it's superlatively acted down to the smallest part. Roles
that are basically clichés, (the kindly landlady in the US, the parish
priest, the bitchy shopkeeper back in Ireland), are beautifully fleshed
out by Julie Walters, Jim Broadbent and Brid Brennan. Still smaller
parts, (the girls Eilis encounters on her journey, the Italian boy's
family, her mother and sister), are all fully developed by a brilliant
cast but it's the three central performances that are truly great and
award-worthy.

As the boys who basically change Eilis' life, in one way or another,
Emory Cohen in America and Domhnall Gleeson in Ireland, are terrific.
Cohen, (a much more handsome, young Rod Steiger), has a real future
ahead of him while Gleeson is fast overtaking his father as Ireland's
finest actor. And then there is Saoirse Ronan as Eilis; the greatness
of her performance lies in as much in what she's not doing or saying as
in what she does. She has one of the most expressive faces in the
movies and it's in the moments of silence that she really comes into
her own and it's one of the great pleasures of recent cinema watching
her character develop. Surely she must be a front-runner at this year's
Oscars. This is a film both for now and for posterity. See it at all
costs.
<|_=00=_|>
Often movies have a magical quality as you're viewing them. Some will
demand your undivided attention, others will hypnotize your senses,
leaving them to simply wash over you with their exuberance and classic
filmmaking procedures. In the case of John Crowley's "Brooklyn," the
latter is certainly the case. There comes a moment in the film when you
are taken in by the film's classic style filmmaking, and tenderly
thought-provoking performances from its cast. Director Crowley, in
partnership with Oscar-nominated scribe Nick Hornby, create a beautiful
and sensitive love story that is everything a Nicholas Sparks film
adaptation wishes it could be. With a vibrant turn from Academy Award
nominee Saoirse Ronan at the helm, "Brooklyn" utilizes all of its tools
in its arsenal to convey a potent message of love and family.

"Brooklyn" tells the story of Ellis Lacey (Ronan), who in 1950s Ireland
and New York, has to choose between two men and two countries. One is
the charismatic Italian plumber Tony (Emory Cohen) while the other is
the reserved yet sensitive Jim Farrell (Domhnall Gleeson). Both are
making a case for Ellis' love.

The film is helmed with a strong and undeniable confidence from Saoirse
Ronan. Feeling the internal battle just pouring out of her in nearly
every sense and every scene, Ronan finds Ellis' struggle and wears it
on her sleeve. She doesn't just have fear of choice, she goes through a
barrage of emotions, and we actively see the character progress in each
milestone that she hits throughout. It begins with the yearning and
devastating separation from her family in Ireland, before gradually
being brought to a yearn for acceptance in a new city. Her mild but
rewarding progression into comfort and confidence is shown before being
abruptly ripped away when tragedy strikes. Every instance is felt in
Ronan's work, all of which is authentically true and vivaciously real.
It's one of her best turns, and further proof that her name will be on
our lips for quite some years.

After breaking out with a scene-stealing turn in Derek Cianfrance's
"The Place Beyond the Pines," Emory Cohen shows his sensitive and
charming side of his range, resulting in an equally measured and
tantalizing performance to his co-star. Don't sleep on this kid.
Domhnall Gleeson's reservations to Jim Farrell is haunting in a role
that doesn't call for many words or emotions. You can see the ache and
pain in his movements, desperate for love and an overwhelming feeling
of being lost. In a few scenes, Julie Walters as Mrs. Kehoe sustains as
a surprisingly comic relief in a very serious drama. Her stoic, passive
demeanor is such a treat to watch in her scenes of interaction with the
girls of the boarding house in which Ellis is staying.

Screenwriter Nick Hornby constructs the story with real life emotion,
taking very few short cuts for its characters. He allows Ellis'
feelings to make the journey in each instance in which she faces them.
The foundation of Tony and Ellis is honest, and rings true as something
we'd see in any instance within our own lives. Where he really shines
in the connection between Ellis and her family. Thousands of miles
away, and with little interaction on screen, you are heartbroken and
pulled through the ringer as Ronan exemplifies the loss of her family
and determination to see them once again. If there is a chink in
Hornby's armor, it's the case he creates for the audience for Ellis to
stay in Ireland. Up until the second half of the film, Hornby makes his
case for New York, I'd only wish he made a more compelling case for
Ireland, giving the audience a more fruitful and difficult dilemma in
making their own decision about where Ellis should be.

One must acknowledge how impeccably constructed the film is from head
to toe. Crowley assembles a dynamite team behind the camera, who all
standout in their own right. Cinematographer Yves Bélanger, with a
yellow hue and soft palate, capture the country and the city to
stunning results. He frames each scene intimately, capturing the heart
and emotion of every word spoken. Production Designer François Séguin
and Set Decorator Suzanne Cloutier capture the 50's homes as if plucked
from the time period themselves, along with transporting us to a
foreign land we can only dream to visit. Odile Dicks- Mireaux's
magnetic costume work elevates each performance, allowing the actors to
fully engage with their characters and the time. And finally, the music
of Michael Brook is a breathtaking swell of emotion, creating moments
that will surely bring you to tears. 

"Brooklyn" is a damn fine movie, following all the classic beats that
we've grown to love about the most timeless love stories. "Brooklyn"
will join the ranks of those timeless stories in the coming years. It's
a joyful and heart aching film that stands as one of the year's best,
and a sure-fire contender for several Academy Awards.

Read more @ (http://www.awardscircuit.com)
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to get tickets to a preview of Brooklyn last week,
and in a rare change from the normal routine, I went into a film
knowing absolutely nothing about it. 

It was such a full house, that I ended up staring up at the screen from
well outside my usual comfort zone at an awkward angle, too close to
the screen, and away from my girlfriend which wasn't a great start, but
once the film started I was quickly caught up in the magnificence of
Saoirse Ronan's performance and forgot about any of those minor gripes.

Ronan owned this film, from first to last. The storyline itself is a
somewhat thin and a follows a well-trodden path but Ronan gives it such
heft, and brings the intensity of her character's experience and
development full force such that any deficiencies of the story seem
inconsequential. It was only after leaving the screening that I really
looked back at some of the plot points and realised how contrived it
had been in places, but for the time I was watching it, I was simply
living it through the potency of the acting. Ronan was brilliant in
this, and I struggle to think of any recent performances that can match
this for the confidence and sure-footedness that she showed. I think
she's in with a good shout for an award or two for this role.

It's worth mentioning Julie Waters as well, who reliably entertains and
impresses in all she does. Between her and Saoirse Ronan, they made
sure that Brooklyn passed the 6 laugh test  and also the 6 cry test. I
laughed, and cried, and laughed as I was crying, and cried as I was
laughing pretty much throughout the whole film. A thoroughly enjoyable
film, where the central performance takes the audience on an engrossing
and emotional trip through an otherwise somewhat slight storyline.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on Colm Tóibín's novel of the same name, 'Brooklyn' is A
Beautiful, Beautiful Film! A heartwarming tale about Love, Loss &
Relationships. And a Knock-Out Performance by Saoirse Ronan is always
welcome.

'Brooklyn' Synopsis: An Irish immigrant lands in 1950s Brooklyn, where
she quickly falls into a new romance. When her past catches up with
her, however, she must choose between two countries and the lives that
exist within.

'Brooklyn' is a simple film, told magnificently. Its superior film in
all respects. Nick Hornby's Adapted Screenplay captures the
Protagonist's coming-of-age tale, with dignity & pathos. I was arrested
by the flow of the narrative. John Crowley's Direction is excellent.
Cinematography & Editing are sharp, while the Art & Costume Design are
fabulous. Michael Brook's Score works.

Performance-Wise: Saoirse Ronan is in great form. The talented actress
delivers a Knock-Out Performance as the naive & lovable protagonist.
This is the kind of performance awards were invented for. Giving her
terrific support are Emory Cohen & Domhnall Gleeson, who enact the men
in her lives, proficiently. The Ever-Compelling Jim Broadbent shines in
a brief role.

On the whole, 'Brooklyn' is a true winner. Don't miss it!
<|_=00=_|>
Sweet little love story of an Irish lass who comes to America circa
1950. She leaves her home in Enniscorthy (Co. Wexford) and comes to
seek fame and fortune - and maybe a 'fella' - in Brooklyn. Subsequent
events draw her back to Enniscorthy, and then back to Brooklyn. In
between we come to know Eilis (pronounced Ailish) Lacey (Saoirse Ronan)
quite well because it is her picture, and she is in nearly every scene.
She changes from a homesick immigrant to a self-assured woman in the
course of the picture, and Ronan's characterization is terrific.

Along the way she meets Tony Fiorello, played by Emory Cohen in a role
apparently underplayed so as not to upstage the main character. He
comes from a big Italian family but is not a stereotypical Italian; he
is barely audible and very subdued. Perhaps the best and most humorous
scenes take place at dinnertime in Mrs. Kehoe's boarding house for
Irish immigrant girls. Played by Julie Walters, she rides herd on her
catty boarders and uses religious metaphors to put them in their place.

"Brooklyn" is a movie for grown-ups, an independent film in a sea of
Hollywood schlock. It is a likable movie with a lot of heart and solid
acting down to the smallest role. It is not a sprawling saga but a nice
little movie, and I have only sketched a few instances. Many reviewers
summarize the whole picture, but the overall tenor of the picture gives
the moviegoer a rooting interest and a sense of the resiliency of the
human spirit, as well as an illustration of the innate decency and
goodness of Eilis Lacey.

P.S. Those hoping to see scenes of Brooklyn neighborhoods will be
disappointed; the picture was filmed in Canada and Ireland.
<|_=00=_|>
Looming skyscrapers in a distant land, the kindness of strangers, love
and hope for a better life; such things open the eyes of Eilis, a smart
and insular immigrant to 1950s Brooklyn, to opportunities she did not
have in the Irish countryside. While at first lonely and homesick in
this new cityscape, Eilis is soon enthralled with the bright
possibilities, encouraged by all she is learning and charmed by the
people she meets. She breaks free from her shell and shines in this
radiant, unfamiliar realm. Returning to Ireland for what she hopes is a
brief stay, Eilis both sees through and is seen in a luminous and
different light. Both worlds, New York and her Irish home, now pull the
new and improved Eilis in different directions.

Saoirse Ronan is spectacular in her performance as Eilis. She really
makes this Sundance hit come alive. It is comforting, as always, to see
a film that does not depend on explosions, computer graphics and alien
contagions to entertain. There is a deeper pleasure here, one that
pulls at mind, spirit, body and heart together. Visuals, story,
organization, acting, intriguing characters and more, all come together
well.
<|_=00=_|>
Set in the 1950s, a young Irish woman emigrates to New York for a life
with better prospects. Initially she misses home but gradually adapts
to her new lifestyle and secretly marries.

She returns to Ireland for a visit after the death of her sister, who
was looking after her mother. Despite intending that her return is to
be brief she begins to settle back into her previous Irish life.

She reacquaints herself with old friends and a possible romance with a
local lad begins to develop. She is torn between fondness for her old
life in Ireland with a new romance and the excitement of her new life
across the Atlantic with her husband. She is faced with the decision of
a lifetime. 

Whilst there's nothing new in this story it deals with recurring themes
well. A sweet, charming drama with wonderful acting and touching
moments.
<|_=00=_|>
Saiorse Ronan needs to be in more movies. She's an absolute delight,
whatever she's in. Brooklyn is Ronan's finest 111 minutes to date. All
the anguish, all the emotion she portrays, is seen through her eyes.
Eilis (Ronan), is torn between two worlds: Ireland and America, missing
her family back home and starting afresh halfway across the world in
Brooklyn, New York. Events that occur only make it harder for Eilis.
Emory Cohen's Tony sparks confidence in our out-of-sorts protagonist.
Ronan's acting is so brazenly from the heart that I can't help but feel
everything she feels, even during her hardest times. Special mention
goes to Julie Walters who oversees the girls in the boarding house that
Eilis resides. Brooklyn is an extraordinary watch due to class acting
from all round. It's funny, clever and charming.
<|_=00=_|>
As incredibly simple this movie was, I am puzzled on what I just saw.
Maybe the reason is: why the hell did this get noticed at the Oscars?

Every year, the Oscar Best Picture nomination list not only snubs great
films, but it leaves open slots that could've been filled with some of
the greats. (This year, only eight were nominated, when two more easily
could've been found amongst some incredible works.) Additionally, I
always see at least one or two WTF choices in which I thought were
enormously below average or down right terrible.

Mercifully, this isn't terrible, but it does fit the WTF category. It's
justthere. Nothing special about this. Sure, I believed the actors,
believed they lived in both Brooklyn, New York and Ireland in the 50s.
But, there wasn't much substance or depth I haven't seen on a PBS or
lifetime movie back in the 90s. 

Ellis dreams of leaving her family and life in Ireland to make anew in
New York. Slowly  and I use that term very lightly, she does, but then
tragedy strikes and she has to choose between the countries.

That's it. That's two hours of Ellis longing for both while blatantly
leading everyone on around her. She's not mean about it  heck, she'd
have to show some personality trait, that I never saw, to add some zest
to this project. But, the truth is: she's the Bella Swan of the 1950s.
She just looks longingly everywhere, forgets to smile and men just
stumble over backwards to court her.

There are movies for everyone. Maybe if you'd like to spend two hours
watching an Irish immigrant making decisions, people gossiping around
her and no real payoff, by all means: visit Brooklyn. But, at least,
even though it has no shot at all at winning any Oscars, it might be
for some older folk to marvel at as they remember the 1950's Brooklyn
Irish craze.
