
A good animation is made weak by clichéd writing.

Lot of work and thought and detailing goes into an animated film. But
if the writing is weak it cannot be pulled off easily. RIO 2 precisely
suffers from that. The scenes are too clichéd for my comfort and the
plot is very age-old. The bird formations, their beautiful feats have
been all been seen in RIO and there is nothing new to offer on that
front too in RIO 2. I felt like the basic format of the earlier film
RIO was taken and just few modifications were done in writing. So it
has that been there, seen that feel that does not add up any value.

The voice over is good and it seems like Jesse Eisenberg did make
effort to feel like the bird Blu. Although the chemistry between the
two birds, Blu and Jewel does not show up adequately, individually
voice over of each was good. It's Anne Hathway for the female
protagonist, Jewel.

The other aspects were fine, considering this is a commercial animated
film. A word about music, which was good in RIO, comes weak and though
are many songs, not even one was memorable, as I left the theater. So
the music did not make any impression either. 

If people like average stuff or have not seen RIO, perhaps will like it
as they may find some new things here. For me, I did not like it and
felt like a big bore. An average rating of 2/5 for this. It's not bad,
it's purely mediocre.
<|_=00=_|>
While it wasn't the best movie or even the best animation I have seen
this year, this movie is definitely entertaining.

The movie begins with Blu, Jewel and their three kids having fun in
their home in Rio, while Blu's former owner, Linda, and her husband,
Tulio, are in the amazon. While in the Amazon, they discover a flock of
blue macaws. Seeing this on the news, Jewel is desperate to visit and
the story begins as Blu, his family and his friends from the last movie
accompany him to the Amazon.

The story is decent. There are quite a few songs and plenty of comedic
moments as well. While Blu is trying to fit in the tribe, there are a
couple of dangerous foes around, Nigel and an illegal tree logger (one
of which had plenty of moments which kind of reminded me of Avatar).
There are plenty of great moments in the amazon when Blu is trying to
fit in, which leads to one of my favourite moments, which was when they
revealed the Pit of Doom. Also, it was fun to see Nigel (the white
cockatoo) back, along with some new characters. The voice-work and
music were quite good as well.

This movie is entertaining, the story and ending are nice as well.
Although I have rated it the same as Rio, I think this was a little
better. Found it to be quite funny and more action packed as well. A
fun family movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not the kind of person to write reviews on my own, but this one
you will read is made not only by me, but also by my 7 year old
daughter, who watched this movie with me.

The movie started good. The 3D is good, the dancing animals and the
introduction of Blue's family were creating big smiles on the face of
my daughter. If the movie would have continued the same way we would
rank it with 7 or 8 stars.

After a while I noticed the movie lost its speed, its flavor and most
of the charm. Without 3D it would have been worse but with it it was
still okay for me.

The reason why we rank it with only 5 stars is the following. After 60
min. my daughter started to become anxious. I asked her why she seems
so nervous and she told me that she is bored. And in my surprise I
noticed i am too and the kids around us. There was no laughter and no
giggling. This should not happen in a movie with an average rating of 7
and my daughter and the other kids fitting into the target group.

The end of the movie was okay and my daughter watched it again with
attention. But that I had to ask my daughter, if she wants to leave
during the movie, lets us stay with 5 out of 10 points.

Watch it at home on DVD, but do not spend 20 (Germany) for an average
movie.

For comparison to RIO No1: The reason we went into this movie in the
first place, was that we own the BlueRay of Rio. We watched it together
several times and we were looking forward to watch the second part.
<|_=00=_|>
As someone who loved the first film, while the advertising was not the
best it didn't put me off seeing Rio 2. And it was very enjoyable, not
as good as the original but it is an example of animated sequels that
do work. The story and the pacing are uneven here, with the film
getting off to a slightly slow start and feeling rushed in other
places, though you do have to admire the energy there is. There are
plenty of fun parts with the second half far more compelling than the
first and the film rarely has a dull moment, but structurally it is on
the thin side and content-wise it feels overstuffed. However, if you
want lots of colour, catchy music, fun and good characters and voice
acting, Rio 2 very like its predecessor doesn't disappoint. The
animation is amazing with lots of vibrant detail especially in the
backgrounds and nothing looks hurried or static. The colours are even
more brighter and colourful than the first film too. The music has that
Brazilian flavour and the songs are incredibly catchy. Don't Go Away is
a very touching song, but the highlights are the pizazz-personified
Poisonous Love and the hilarious rap version of I Will Survive(thought
I'd never say this, can't stand rap on the most part). While the film
does feel overstuffed, the content is actually really good,
dialogue-wise it's smartly written and has a fair amount of heart while
the gags provide plenty of laughs with sharp timing, the best being the
soccer match, the jungle auditions and any scene(the Romeo and Juliet
part in particular) with Gabi and Nigel. The characters are still
engaging, Blu and Jewel are likable lead characters though they had
more to do in the first one and Nigel has that menacing streak but is a
riot. There are some great new characters as well, with Gabi as good a
character as and in some cases even better the original ones. The voice
acting adds to that, Jemaine Clement and Kristen Chenoweth are both
phenomenal helped by that they have the film's best moments, though
Jesse Eisenberg, Anne Hathaway, Andy Garcia and everybody else acquit
themselves more than fine too. To conclude, a good sequel to a great
original, enjoyed it a lot and when it comes to animated sequels there
is definitely much worse(ie. Secret of NIMH 2). 7/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
Story: The story here suffers from too many subplots, and a lack of
focus. It also doesn't help that all the subplots here are generic.
This would would kill a film......if it was made by someone like Pixar
or Studio Ghibli. But since this film's plot isn't the main focus, or
why audiences watched the 1st Rio, then the bad story doesn't really
hurt this film as much as it could've been. But it's still a bad story
nonetheless. 4/10

Animation: It's beautiful, gorgeous, colorful, and worth watching on
Blu-ray or Blu-ray 3D. 10/10

Characters And Comedy: All characters here follow standard archetypes
we all know of, but Nigel and Gabi serve as the most original and most
entertaining. Comedy is solid with some funny moments in the film. 6/10

Sound: Good score and amazing soundtrack. Love the songs here more than
Frozen, but none really hit the heights of Hot Wings from the 1st.
Although some of the songs do come close. 9/10

Acting And Casting: All actors/actresses do a good job voicing their
roles, especially with Jesse E. as the voice of Blu. I'm also surprised
Bruno Mars didn't suck. 7/10

Verdict: Don't watch this film for the story. Watch it like you would a
Madagascar film and just sit back, relax, and enjoy an entertaining
family film with some beautiful animation, good comedy, and amazing
songs.

Extra: +1 for being a sequel I enjoyed.

Rating: 8/10

For a more in-depth review (stupid 1000 word limit), check out my
Metacritic review: http://www.metacritic.com/user/DemonicSoul?myscore-
filter=Movie
<|_=00=_|>
As a sequel to the 2011 original, Rio 2 continues in the tradition of
its older sibling with screwball humor and madcap mischief. While
maintaining a pedigree for celebrating song and dance through a
kaleidoscopic burst of colors, Rio 2 is gorgeously rendered but offset
by a clichéd script that is also laced with classroom lecture.

This sequel begins in Rio de Janeiro where our feathered friends Blu
and Jewel (Jesse Eisenberg and Anne Hathaway) discover that they are
not the last of their species after all. Along with their three kids,
they leave Rio and fly to the Amazonian rain forest where an entire
flock of blue macaws was reportedly spotted. As it turns out, the flock
exists and is headed by Jewel's long lost father Eduardo (Andy Garcia)
and guarded by her old flame Roberto (Bruno Mars). Now reduced to a
stuttering parrot, Blu must man-up to his overzealous father-in-law
(think Robert De Niro in Meet the Parents) while thwarting Roberto's
attempts (think Owen Wilson in Meet the Parents) at charming Jewel.
Meanwhile, Blu's nemesis Nigel (Jemaine Clement) has resurfaced and is
all out for revenge.

Come school days and kids will have plenty of reason to mimic their
favorite characters. From human characters voiced by Rodrigo Santoro
and Leslie Mann, to Blu's crooning friends Nico (Jamie Foxx), Pedro
(Will.i.am), everyone is back for a second round of slapstick
shenanigans. And joining the old cast are some feisty new voice talents
including Kristin Chenoweth as Gabi, a poisonous dart-frog so obsessed
with Nigel, you could even think of her as his psycho girlfriend.
Haunted by a disastrous turn of events in the first movie, Nigel
himself is loonier than before with a thespian swagger that pokes fun
at none other than the Bard of Avon. Speaking of which, lookout for a
hilarious scene aimed at adults where Nigel and Gabi find themselves
dramatizing one of Shakespeare's greatest plays. While many such
segments are genuinely funny, the story strays at times with subplots
from deforestation to male bonding, before stepping into a puddle of
teary-eyed melodrama. Kids laughed and adults clapped, but there were
periods of silence too, and I am not referring to those brief scenes
where death was implied.

Emerging as a game changer in animated films, Blue Sky Studios, a
subsidiary of 20th Century Fox, struck gold with its very first feature
production  Ice Age (2002). It's been tunneling through a gold mine
ever since. While Rio 2 might seem like a cash cow for some viewers, it
is still a delightful animation with foot-tapping music to get your
groove on. And like a Gloria Gaynor hit song performed by Clement's
Nigel, there is every reason to believe this sequel will survive.
<|_=00=_|>
Rio 2(2014) Starring:Jesse Eisenberg, Anne Hathaway, Leslie Mann, Jamie
Foxx, Andy Garcia, Bruno Mars, Jemaine Clement, Rodrigo Santoro, Jake
T. Austin, Amandla Stenberg, Pierce Gagnon, Rita Moreno, Kristin
Chenoweth, Tracy Morgan, Will.i.am, and George Lopez Directed By:Carlos
Saldanha Review HE'S VILLAINOUS, SHE'S VENOMOUS. You know I actually
liked the first Rio movie a lot actually and I didn't even want to see
it but my sister made me anyway and I actually thought it was great.
When I heard the sequel and saw the trailer a billion times on comcast
to rent or own, I knew this would be some generic family animated
sequel I wouldn't enjoy and guess what I was right. The Film revolves
around Blu, Jewel and their three kids after they're hurtled from Rio
de Janeiro to the wilds of the Amazon. As Blu tries to fit in, he goes
beak-to-beak with the vengeful Nigel, and meets the most fearsome
adversary of all: his father-in-law. The story isn't that interesting,
it's basically a generic animated family feature where the main
character doesn't want to leave his home because he's so use to things
and when he does leave and gets to the Amazon the father of his wife
doesn't like him, and there is a much more attractive character that
his wife is spending more time with which makes him jealous. It's been
done too death and I don't like it. The movie does not achieve it's
goal, thanks to its generic story the movie is bland and boring, even
if I do like the performances from the actors it's just not that well
interesting for me to care about what's going on in the picture. All
the elements of a good film are not present it's just bland,
generic,boring, and tiresome. With good performances that help not
making a stupid waste time. I give Rio 2 a two out of five.
<|_=00=_|>
The film starts off as usual for an animated movie these days -- the
businessman is the bad guy. In this case, it is a logger who refers to
the Blue's humans as "tree huggers." The good guys are trying to find
evidence of an endangered species in the rain forest so that they can
shut down logging operations. It seems fairly typical child
environmental propaganda at first. Then it turns dark. It starts by
desensitizing the kids to violence by showing some animals eaten by
other animals during a song and dance sequence. The movie climaxes with
a violent attack on the logging operation at the end of which the bad
businessman is actually killed. I am not kidding. This movie seems to
advocate violent environmental activism. It makes the movie much less
entertaining -- for adults and kids.
<|_=00=_|>
Sequels are tricky propositions - it's hard to find creative freedom
and joy in an enterprise clearly geared towards bringing in ever more
heaps of cash. For every glorious Toy Story sequel, there's Cars 2 or
yet another lacklustre installment in the Ice Age franchise.
Fortunately for Blue Sky Studios, Rio 2 is frequently excellent, a
sunny, cheerful reprise of a hit movie that finds its own grace notes.

Blu (voiced by Jesse Eisenberg), everyone's favourite domesticated
macaw, is happily married to Jewel (Anne Hathaway) after their
adventures in the first film. Worried that their three beautiful
children are becoming too city-bound, Jewel entreats Blu to take the
family to the Amazon to connect with their roots. Once in the jungle,
Jewel discovers that she and Blu aren't the only surviving adult blue
macaws in the world after all: she reconnects with her family,
including her dad Eduardo (Andy Garcia) and childhood friend Roberto
(Bruno Mars). Suddenly, Blu is the odd one out, and must desperately
try to fit into a wild, raucous world that seems to have no place for
him and his civilised ways.

There's almost too much happening in Rio 2: apart from Blu's family
troubles, the macaw tribe's haven in the jungle is under threat from a
ruthless logging company. Fan favourite Nigel (Jemaine Clement) - the
most puffed-up, actorly, diabolical cockatoo you'll ever meet - returns
to take revenge upon his nemesis, Blu, with poisonous tree frog Gabi
(Kristin Chenoweth) in tow. As per the first film, Rio 2 also packs its
soundtrack with joyful, high-energy numbers - which is explained away
by Nico (Jamie Foxx) and Pedro (will.i.am) auditioning jungle denizens
for a spot in the upcoming Rio Carnival.

What's so impressive about this film is how it manages to make all the
disparate elements of its overstuffed plot work. Powered by a loopy,
irrepressible charm, Rio 2 dashes from scene to scene, but doesn't
forget to pack in moments that range from affecting (Jewel's tender
lullaby Don't Go Away) to absurd (Blu's GPS charting the route to Funky
Town). The characters in any given sequel are usually the first to get
lost in the shuffle, but they each get moments to shine here. Blu's
connection with his human companion Linda (Leslie Mann) isn't the focus
of this film, but nevertheless makes itself felt in the final act. The
relationship between Blu and Jewel is also beautifully heartfelt,
dealing with ideas of compromise and growth after the honeymoon is long
over.

There's even room for a new breakout character. The shock of delight
provided by Nigel in the first film - so gleefully subversive a villain
- is largely eroded here, and he comes off more as a determined buffoon
than anything else. But he's ably matched by the amorous Gabi, whose
hopeless adoration of Nigel is channelled into two of the film's
highlights: Poisonous Love, an overblown ballad with several hints of
The Phantom Of The Opera; and a wacky, wonderfully rearranged rendition
of Gloria Gaynor's I Will Survive.

Unwieldy though its plot may be, Rio 2 breezes through it all with
cheeky energy and eye-wateringly glorious animation. But what makes Rio
2 as good as - if not better than - its predecessor is director Carlos
Saldanha's understanding that losing sight of his characters will only
damage the film. And so, amidst the tumult of mid-air football games
and swooping aerial dance formations, Saldanha roots everything in the
big, loving hearts of Blu and his extended family. The film - and the
franchise - are all the better for it.
<|_=00=_|>
Quickie Review:

Like the title of this review says, Rio 2 is basically an animated
version of Meet the Parents (2000). Blu (Jesse Eisenberg) and Jewel
(Anne Hathaway) with a family of three kids, venture into the Amazon to
find a flock of their own kind. Blu faces his father-in-law for the
first time and must now prove his worth to him and the flock. Hollywood
is filled with movies that repeat a general formula or idea. Even with
a predictable story, Rio 2 does enough to keep your attention with
beautiful animation and some memorable characters. Kids especially will
have a lot of fun, but the adults are not left behind.

Full Review:

Rio 2 starts with Blu and Jewel living in the Blue Macaw reserve with
their three kids. Blu and the kids feel completely at home living side
by side with the humans, while Jewel longs to live out in the wild with
her family. They soon find out that they are not the last of their
kind, and there might be a whole flock in the Amazon. This provides the
perfect opportunity for the family to reconnect with their roots. Once
they arrive and find the flock, Jewel is reunited with her long lost
father Eduardo (Andy Garcia). Blu must now prove to Eduardo that he is
worthy of his respect and blessing, while preventing Roberto (Bruno
Mars) from reigniting an old flame with Jewel. In the meantime, Nigel
(Jemaine Clement) along with his new obsessed companion frog Gabi
(Kristin Chenoweth), seeks revenge following the events of the previous
movie.

The plot in itself is nothing special or unique. Here's a quick
challenge for you: just by reading the synopsis, think what the
beginning, the middle, the climax, and the end of this movie is going
to be Done? Well then, I don't know exactly who you are but I'm 99%
sure you got it right. So yes the movie is predictable, and does fall
into the trap of the many father-in-law subplot clichés. Still the
movie is charming enough to not put you to sleep. It is clear that the
movie is mostly targeted for the kids but there is still some humor for
us adults, or the parents, or the baby sitter to enjoy.

Most of the cast have returned from the original, and they all play
their parts well. However the stand outs for me has to be Nigel and
newcomer Gabi. Every time they are on screen they put a smile on my
face. Nigel is this over the top diva, who wants all the attention on
himself because he truly believes he deserves it (well, I won't argue
against it!). Gabi on the other hand is a poisonous frog that is deeply
and helplessly in love with Nigel (think the popular "overly obsessed
girlfriend" meme). She is also probably one of the cutest animated
characters yet. These two play many of the scenes that the adults will
enjoy as they dramatize popular songs and hilariously re-enact
Shakespearean scenes from Romeo and Juliet, and Hamlet.

In essence this movie serves the purpose of being entertaining. Rio 2
is a beautifully made animated movie with a satisfactory plot. There is
nothing wrong with Rio 2, but there's not much great about it either.
Kids will love this movie, and adults will not feel like they wasted
their time.
