
Sometimes it feels like Woody Allen is deliberately hit and miss. Every
other film appears to be a winner so it's become easy to just skip the
mediocre ones. I thought Midnight In Paris was pretty good but I felt
like its idea wasn't explored well enough and it became too repetitive.
Blue Jasmine is a film that feels like it'll be another basic story at
first then as the tragedy slowly unravels, it becomes all the more
fascinating. At first the film's structure of flashbacking without
transition is a little frustrating as the present time doesn't give you
much to chew on in the first place, but it soon becomes clear that this
was the only way to tell this brilliant and complex story of a woman's
place in the world. Cate Blanchett is setting the reviews on fire and
she certainly deserves it. I've always loved her engrossing theatrical
style in films like The Aviator and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button
and I've missed her since.

Here she is in full force as she switches from glamour to glare
seamlessly and effortlessly. Blanchett has often played strong women
and she tiptoes the line of Jasmine's strength and vulnerability both
with and without sympathy. It's incredible to watch. Although I was
concerned I was going to only appreciate the performance and not
connect with the character, I ended up finding her struggle to feel
useful in the working world and not knowing how to achieve her
ambitions to cut deep into the first world human anxieties about
identity and self- worth. It's great to have a film that addresses
those issues so earnestly, without feeling self- pitying. Although the
spotlight is on her, there's plenty of room for the supporting players
to shine with the delightful comic relief performances from Louis C.K.,
Michael Stuhlberg and Max Casella and deceptively charming performances
from Alec Baldwin, Andrew Dice Clay and Peter Sarsgaard. The real
talent on the side belongs to Sally Hawkins and Bobby Cannavale who
give compelling and heartbreaking performances.

I like how Allen has such confidence in his shooting style of simple
wides and closeups that he doesn't let it get in the way of the story
but sometimes it does feel bland rather than just Woody's brand. It
sometimes feels like the story is taking uninteresting broad strokes
with its archetypes but when the details come in like a mystery novel,
they enrichen the story and leave just before they drown you making you
want more. Perhaps Allen could've made a better job of making me
intrigued in the details but that makes the pay-offs all the more
sweeter. However, I'm not quite sure what to make of the ending,
perhaps Allen is trying to say there's some people who can and can't be
fixed, I'm not sure, but it's a fascinating tragic comic tale
nonetheless. Maybe it's intended as a punishment film regarding the sin
of greed. That would make sense though it wouldn't be as satisfying.
It's been compared to A Streetcar Named Desire a lot but I don't
remember much of that story despite having seen it twice. I think I
prefer Blue Jasmine. One of Allen's most unsuspecting heavyweight films
in a long time.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
If you want to see this year's master class in screen acting, you need
to watch Cate Blanchett's mesmerizing performance as Jasmine French, a
delusional Park Avenue socialite wife in Woody Allen's 45th directorial
effort, a sly, bicoastal update of Tennessee Williams' classic "A
Streetcar Named Desire". As the film opens, her impeccably dressed
character has hit rock bottom after her financial wizard of a husband
is arrested and her assets are liquidated. In the throes of a nervous
breakdown, she arrives in San Francisco and moves in with her kind-
hearted sister Ginger who lives a modest, blue-collar life in a tiny
apartment on the edge of the Mission  on South Van Ness near 14th
Street to be exact - with her two hyperactive sons. You can tell
Jasmine is not only out of her element but quite judgmental about how
her sister's life has turned out. The irony of Jasmine's patronizing
attitude is that she is a habitual liar who is so angry about her
destitute circumstances that she frequently talks to herself. The story
follows the basic outline of "Streetcar" but takes some interesting
turns, for instance, when she tries to better herself by taking
computer classes while working as a receptionist at a dental office.

Allen has crafted his film into a clever juxtaposition of current and
past events that feels jarring at first since it reflects Jasmine's
precarious mental state but then melds into a dramatic arc which
resonates far more than a straightforward chronology could have
allowed. As a writer, he has become more vociferous in his dialogue
without losing his wit. He doesn't pull punches when he showcases
confrontations between his characters, whether it's between the two
sisters, men and women, or people from different classes. Hostility can
come in flammable torrents or in thinly veiled remarks. That Allen
moves so dexterously in tone is a testament to his sharp ability in
drawing out the truth in his actors. Blanchett is a wonder in this
regard because there is something intensely fearless in her approach.
Unafraid to lose audience sympathy for her character, she finds an
innate sadness in Jasmine that makes us want to know what happens to
her next. She also mines the sharp, class- based humor in Jasmine's
struggles with one highlight a hilariously executed scene in a pizza
restaurant where she explains to her confused nephews to "Tip big,
boys".

The rest of the cast manage effective turns. Alec Baldwin plays
Jasmine's swindler husband with almost effortless aplomb. Sally Hawkins
brings a wonderful looseness to Ginger, Stella to Blanchett's Blanche,
and finds a level of poignancy in her character's constant
victimization at the hands of her sister as well as her brutish,
blue-collar boyfriend Chili, played with comic fierceness by Bobby
Cannavale in the Stanley Kowalski role. In a conveniently conceived
role, Peter Sarsgaard gets uncharacteristically breezy as Dwight, a
wealthy, erudite, and matrimonially available State Department diplomat
who appears to be the answer to Jasmine's prayers, while Allen casts
two unlikely comics in about-face roles  Andrew Dice Clay as Ginger's
defeated ex-husband Augie and Louis C.K. as Al, an amorous suitor who
brings Ginger a few moments of romantic salvation. Allen's European
sojourn appears to have freed him up with the movement of characters in
scenes and Javier Aguirresarobe's ("Vicky Cristina Barcelona")
camera-work complies nicely. The San Francisco locations bring a nice
geographic change to Allen's storytelling, and he only uses the Golden
Gate Bridge in a long shot once from the Marin side. This is Allen's
best work in quite a while, and Blanchett is the ideal muse for his
tale.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this was Woody Allen's best film in years. The script was
better written than I expected from him at this point, given his more
recent turns toward drama, and the laughs are often derived as much
from the dark humor in the characters' situations as from snappy punch
lines. Kudos to Cate Blanchett who turns in a stellar performance,
actors sometimes broadly interpret Woody's neurotic characters for
comedic effect, more the way Woody would play the role (think Judy
Davis), but Cate very effectively plays it straight and my guess is
she'll be taking home the next best actress Oscar. For me the biggest
surprise was Andrew Dice Clay, who gives a surprising nuanced
performance as a working class guy bitter about having been screwed
over by big shots, and in some ways his character morally anchors the
film. Good job, Woody.
<|_=00=_|>
Cate Blanchett gives her best acting performance of all time. Her
character changes dramatically every scene. There will be nominations
in the future for CB - in my opinion. Woody Allen punk-ed himself with
the French nanny angle. Andrew Dice Clay was spectacular. Sally Hawkins
stole many scenes in this movie. 

This movie was a commentary on the gluttony of Wall Street &
Finance...on many levels. 

It also pointed out the desperation of people suffering from mental
health issues. 

I recommend seeing Blue Jasmine. You will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the better movies Woody Allen has put out in recent years,
featuring superior performances by Cate Blanchett as an emotionally
unstable woman forced to come down from her privileged past and Sally
Hawkins as her enabling lower-income sister. Allen's screenplay is
often amusing although it meanders at times (I looked at my watch more
than once during the screening I attended) and its story seems
uncomfortably reminiscent of "A Streetcar Named Desire" with Blanchett
in the Blanche DuBois role, Sally Hawkins as Stella, Peter Sarsgaard as
Mitch and Bobby Cannavale as Stanley Kowalski. It lacks the dramatic
power and sexual tension of Tennessee Williams' masterpiece and in the
end, Allen's urbane sophistication doesn't make up for it.

There is a tendency in recent years to either over-praise Allen or rip
him to shreds. I don't think this film deserves either fate, being an
enjoyably diverting if occasionally pretentious and derivative
comedy/drama. It may not belong in the pantheon of great Woody Allen
movies like "Annie Hall" or "Manhattan" but it's no "Curse of the Jade
Scorpion" or "Celebrity" either. If it didn't have the Woody Allen
brand on it, I suspect that it would quickly come and go without notice
as a fairly well-made independent drama with some nice acting that has
some gripping sequences while ultimately being a little on the dull
side. Because of Allen's enduring reputation, it will probably pick up
an Oscar nomination or two (for Blanchett's performance and for Allen's
questionably "original" screenplay) because Allen's name still carries
cache with the taste arbiters. It had too many dull stretches and
redundant exchanges for that kind of attention for my money, but its
high points made me feel like there were worse ways to spend an hour
and a half.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody Allen's finely tuned screen-writing skills and his talent for
eliciting standout and often award-winning performances from his
leading ladies are on full display in "Blue Jasmine." Alec Baldwin, the
slick husband of a middle-aged socialite, Cate Blanchett, pulls a
Bernie-Madoff swindle and ends up in jail. The homes, the cars, the
furs, the jewels, the furniture all go to the Feds, and the penniless
Cate flies first class to San Francisco with her Louis Vuitton luggage
to stay with her non-biological sister, Sally Hawkins, until she gets
back on her feet. Blanchett, the Jasmine of the title, is totally
unprepared for her economic fall. She decides to become an interior
designer, but wants to study on-line; however, she is computer
illiterate and must take a course, before she can begin to study
decorating; but, she needs money for the courses and takes a
receptionist job with a lecherous dentist. Although the film addresses
serious issues, the Allen humor will provoke smiles and an occasional
chuckle, from small well-observed moments such as the attempts of
indecisive patients to make dental appointments.

Understandably, Cate Blanchett's Jasmine teeters on the edge of a
nervous breakdown; she lies instinctively, even to herself; and she
cannot or will not face the reality of her downward mobility. The role
is an actress's showcase, and Blanchett is in top form; her nervous
rambling monologues, either to herself or to unwilling strangers,
provide a study guide for aspiring actors. Jasmine brays at her
"sister," Ginger, effortlessly and engagingly played by Hawkins; she
nags about Ginger's job, lover, and living quarters, until Ginger
points out Jasmine's own diminished situation. Jasmine bellows that
Ginger can do better than her amorous boyfriend, Chili, a charismatic
Bobby Cannavale with a bad haircut and faded tattoo; eventually, Ginger
reminds her that her own choice of husband was less than stellar.
Jasmine, Ginger, and Chili make an aromatic trio, whose names perhaps
allude to their personalities, and they are ably supported by Louis
C.K., a horny guy with the hots for Ginger, and Peter Sarsgaard, a
respectable diplomat seeking a suitable wife for his political career.

In keeping with the film's title, Woody uses blues on the soundtrack,
and his cinematographer, Javier Aguirresrobe, lenses the dual New York
and San Francisco locales effectively. Although the jump cuts in time
are jarring initially, viewers will quickly accommodate to New York
being the past and San Francisco the present. Woody at age 78 is a
master writer, especially of women's characters, and "Blue Jasmine"
finds him at his best. Although Woody's trademark humor flickers
throughout, the film is essentially about a vulnerable woman standing
amidst the ruins of her former life and facing a precariously uncertain
future. Audiences may come out praising the performers, but humming the
blues.
<|_=00=_|>
when the movie was over the audience sat there somewhat stunned and
completely silent... was crazy... crazy is the literal word to use.

the main character is so vivid and sad and real.

the film is a roller coaster ride of drama and comedy... of awkward
humor and goofy then disturbing.

the use of flashbacks are done seamlessly and works well to tell the
back story of this amazing character.

there are a few things that maybe don't work here and there but 80
percent of this film is cate blanchette and she really is perfect.

at times it's woodyy allen-ish and at other times you forget and are
sucked in by blanchette.

rest of cast is great... andrew dice clay is awesome in a very toned
down role, louie ck is great is a small part... sally hawkins is
awesome in her own way and very different from her sister jasmine...
bobby carnivale chews some scenery.

if this movie sucks you in you will have a hard time forgetting it for
a while... it hangs with you.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw Woody Allen's latest film today in theaters and after all
these years, he still hasn't lost his touch. Cate Blanchett completely
steals the show here, being the most interesting character by far. What
a powerful and emotional performance (the best I've seen from her)!
There are several hilarious moments involving her, but you will also
feel the state of depression she's in, even damaging her mental health.
In addition, I really enjoyed the way Woody tells the story, always
going back and forth in time. The ending was truly devastating and as
usual, the dialogues are some of the highlights in this film. Blue
Jasmine is definitely much better than Woody's previous work, To Rome
with Love, which I thought it was pretty weak overall. I'm glad to see
this great director back in top form, with another remarkable film
again.
<|_=00=_|>
What a treat! Cate Blanchett gives a stunning performance as a
Blanche-like character written and directed by the most prolific
American author of the last 40 years. Cate seems to be an actress
without emotional borders. Jasmine walks a very tight rope, her sense
of despair etched in her magnificent face vanishes ipso facto when she
meets Peter Sarsgaard. She realizes in a sort of disbelief
-extraordinary, heartbreaking and horribly funny moment - that he could
be the rescue raft in her own personal tsunami. Sally Hawkins, another
stroke of genius in the casting department, is a profoundly human
creature very much the Stella of the situation. This two sisters,
adopted both from different parents are also from different, if
immediately recognizable, universes. I could go on and on but I'm not
going to, I just wanted to urge you, in this times of 3D super extra
loud marvel sequels, to run and see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Loved the script, loved the cast, loved all the performances, but dear
God, Cate Blanchett was so incredible I couldn't catch a breath. What a
performance! So many emotions at the same time, so multi-layered,
subtle and yet unbearable.... She takes a character one normally
wouldn't really care about where she ends up to someone, who despite
her tragic and repeated mistakes and the fact that she made her own
bed, you send up caring about, you end up understanding her. 

Blanchett took a huge risk with that emotionally exposing role and
proved herself to be master and commander. If any other actress had
played that role, it wouldn't even be half as good. Her theatrical
background and experience is all concentrated in in Jasmine.
Heart-wrenching, powerful and utterly vulnerable at the same time,
cruel but simultaneously caring in her very own way... 

It's the performance of the decade for me and one of the best of all
times, a true masterclass.

And as Letterman told Blanchett when she was a guest at his show (not
really a fan of his but what he said was totally true), even if he had
directed the film instead of Allen, the result would still have been a
masterpiece because of Cate.
