
As good as the Shining was something I said to all around me as soon as
the picture ended. 

Brilliantly conceived and executed. Fast paced action + beautifully
shot + not too gory + a cast of characters you really cared about all
combined to make this the best experience of jumping and screaming and
laughing I've seen from a bunch of experienced horror show aficionados
I have ever seen. 

Good performances from all including the kids. Very unpredictable and
wholly inventive storyline. Even the cleverest plots and safeguards
will not defeat the pure evil of the Oculus.

Very good effort from some brilliant and talented people.
<|_=00=_|>
No folks, I'm not jumping on the bandwagon here. This film really is
that good. 

The beauty of the film is it's way of telling the story. The way the
film jumps from past to present is just so well done. It not only tells
the story in an interesting way, it also compliments the main theme of
the film. Not knowing what's reality or fantasy. While I applaud the
movie for this it also affects the movie in a negative way. At some
points the story is getting so intense and interesting and then BLAM!
Back to the past. Relieving all tension that was built up in the
previous scene. But then again it leaves you in suspense, waiting for
it to return to the present to see how things are going to go down. All
in all it's just a very unique and tension building way to tell this
interesting story.

The acting in the film is top notch in my opinion. The entire cast
gives strong performances, and you actually care about the well being
of these characters. The only character I didn't care to much for was
Kaylee's fianc√©e. But I felt that particular character wasn't a main
focus point for the story so it didn't affect the film in the
slightest. 

The film also has some very creepy and dark imagery that really sends
chills down your spine. The ghostly images projected by the mirror are
indeed scary and do give you an uneasy feeling for sure. There are a
few jump scares that actually did catch me off guard and are well done.
Before each jump scare there is a buildup of tension so that when the
scare hits you, it actually hits you. The lighting is great and so is
the sound and musical score. The movie isn't heavy on gore or special
FX but that's not a big issue at all. The story doesn't call for
buckets of blood anyways. 

There really isn't much I can say that was bad about this movie because
it really is a horror gem. A real slow burner that messes with your
mind and sucks you into its cool storyline of the supernatural. I'd
give it an outstanding score of 9/10, if you're a horror fan check this
one out!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a classic ghost story.

I won't spoil anything, but for a haunted mirror movie, I found it VERY
effective.

There are only really 6 people in the film. The parents, and the
children at 2 different ages. The film is not really linear, and it
took me a while to get the flow of the constant changing from today and
yesterday. Once I got it, I found it very clever.

What impressed me the most, however, is that there is hardly any blood,
no nudity, no profanity, no sex, no gore and it scared the crap out of
me!

No, it doesn't reinvent the genre (can you even really do that with the
haunted mirror genre?), but it is a well crafted, well acted movie that
really kept my interest all the way through.

The young girl was especially effective.

The film starts off slow and methodical and really hits its stride
about the half way mark.

We need more films like this. Smart, clever "little" films - a few
characters, a few props and lots of chills and thrills.

Please see this!

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
When I first read a slew of positive reviews in 2013 about Oculus, I
really wanted to check it out. I really enjoy the horror film genre
however it's a real cynical bunch of viewers ("not scary enough", "not
enough gore", "this has been done before"), and with the reviews coming
down like "never seen anything like this", I was interested and
skeptical.

Oculus is a slow-burn. It's slow and keeps to this pace throughout the
film. This isn't the Conjuring which is pretty much fast paced... this
reminded me of a mix Last Exorcism of Emily Rose and perhaps the
Orphanage. You will either get really interested in how creepy the film
gets or not. You will either really dig the layers of how things work
in the horror realm or try to poke holes through everything (ex: 30 ft
safe radius).

The genius of Oculus isn't the concept (haunted mirror) but the
screenplay of disjointed story telling and flashbacks mixing into a
coherent and perhaps a complex story. Think of it like a toned down
Inception. It's effective because you eventually feel and question what
is reality and not.

This is above mediocre but perhaps not for the mainstream. It's a great
refreshing horror film.
<|_=00=_|>
Even though it wasn't as scary or gory, as I wanted it to be. It still
managed to creep me out and get on my nerves, with it's very creative
and elaborate story and excellent performances from all it's cast. I
really enjoyed the chemistry between the two younger actors played by
Annalise Basso & Garrett Ryan, and the relationship they had as
characters, which added a lot of heart and sentiment to the whole
story. Moreover, this movie was more a drama with some horror, because
it didn't played with the whole scare and gore factors, but instead it
was more about the the story behind the mirror and the effect it had
with the people that surrounded it. It would be a good idea to make
this a franchise because of how extensive its universe could be, as
well as how many different stories and characters it could incorporate
and continue to haunt, even though it's ending was melodramatic to me,
it felt conclusive and eerily heartbreaking. Overall, it was a very
good little drama-horror film that goes more farther than you could
imagine and think.
<|_=00=_|>
It was 2006 when director Mike Flanagan first caught our attention. We 
obtained a copy of his short, Oculus: Chapter 3 and were one of the 
first internet reviews of the short (a favourable review in case you 
were wondering). We kept our eye on Flanagan through the years through 
his follow up projects, Makebelieve (2000), Still Life (2001) and 
Ghosts of Hamilton Street (2003). But it was Flanagan's 2011 film, 
Absentia, that really put the budding director in the limelight.

Absentia was a small yet ambitious project that did its best on the 
festival circuit before getting some attention on VOD and DVD and was 
Killer Reviews' pick as the best horror film of 2011. Flanagan is back 
behind the camera with Oculus, a picture that was picked as one of the 
Elite 10 of the Toronto International Film Festival's Midnight Madness 
Series.

Oculus tells the story of Tim and Kaylie Russell (Brenton Thwaites, 
Karen Gillan). Tim has recently been released from a mental institution 
where he spent most of his younger years after he and his sister 
witnessed a deadly family tragedy that left Tim's psyche in a state of 
fragility. Only hours removed from the hospital, Kaylie convinces Tim 
that a mirror procured and displayed at the Russell household was the 
cause of their violent childhood. Kaylie is convinced that the mirror 
has a 300-year history of death and destruction and she solicits Tim's 
help in an attempt to confront and destroy the evil that possesses the 
antique mirror.

Kaylie and Tim's attempts to find answers and draw out the evil lead to 
violent hallucinations and flashbacks that both siblings in danger and 
challenge the sanity of the recuperating Tim. As their night alone with 
the mirror draws long, Kaylie and Tim soon learn that the mirror is 
still the dominant force and their attempts at closure soon become a 
race for survival.

If Absentia was Flanagan's Star Wars, then Oculus is his Empire Strikes 
Back. A better more polished film, Oculus was as eerie and involving as 
it was particularly complex in its non-linear storytelling. Much like 
Absentia, Oculus is intelligent in its unravelling and doesn't cater to 
the microwave generation's want for a high body count while still 
delivering the goods.

The acting was stellar with familiar faces Rory Cochrane (CSI: Miami) 
and Katee Sackhoff (Battlestar Galactica) complementing the adult 
Gillan and Thwaites). But is was the performance of the younger Kalie 
(Annalise Basso) that steals the movie with a virtuoso performance that 
demonstrates the young actor's range.

Horror fans that have longed for a good and clever thriller involving 
ghosts and the paranormal will have their thirst quenched with the 
smoothness of a 12-year-old Scotch. Oculus is everything we could have 
hoped for from the no-longer-unknown Flanagan.

It is a superior thrill ride that will challenge audiences to keep up 
with the fast moving plot developments while delivering upon an onion 
layered type screenplay that will keep your guessing not only in what 
happens next, but if what is happening is even real.


<|_=00=_|>
This film was fantastic. I was creeped out the entire time, right from
the introduction of the mirror. There has always been something
slightly disconcerting about staring into a mirror at night, half
expecting someone to jump out from over your shoulder. This film
captured the essence of this perfectly. There was not a lot of action,
not much blood or violence, but just enough to scare the audience. Just
when you think that you have the mirror figured out, something else
comes around to make you think otherwise. It makes you wonder if the
characters are just crazy, that none of the film is actually real. You
will never know exactly what is going on. That is what made it such a
well done horror film, backed up by great acting performances from both
adults and children. If you enjoy horror films as I do, go to see this
film, you will not be disappointed!
<|_=00=_|>
This was really not that bad for a horror movie. The whole mirror
monster sort of thing has been done before but what made this movie
refreshing to me was the complete mind trip that was going on
throughout the movie. I spent more than like 3/4ths of the movie
utterly confused yet it made sense by the end. It was all over the
place but slowly, I was able to piece things together. I personally
thought it had the right amount of horror that it was actually able to
make me jump at some parts without being too cringe worthy like most
horror films are. Also, I was impressed with what was done despite the
simplicity of the film. Tons of thrills, tons of fun. Needless to say,
I thoroughly enjoyed watching this.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot believe that people are giving this movie low ratings. As an
avid horror movie fanatic,it takes a lot to freak me out in a movie and
this movie not only disturbed me it stood out to me.This movie is based
off of psychological mind tricks and you will feel as if you are being
deceived by the mirror.This does not get its horror based off of cheap
jump out scares or gore, it messes with you so you no longer know
what's real and what's not. While the ending was very abrupt,I love how
the whole film mirrors itself in the past and that the two story lines
interconnect.This may not be for everyone, but I can say that this
movie is psychologically terrifying. This generation is used to over
used gore and predictable horror, but this movie is different than
that. Despite what others say it is not just another scary movie. I
left the theater afraid after all of the illusions the movie pushes you
through. It is slow, yes, but it is full of suspense and the slow dread
adds to the plot. I bet the people who rate this low are into the shock
factor and gore of other horror movies. Give it a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
Oculus is a nail biting thrill ride which artfully takes us on a
complex journey of the two main characters and it charts how their
lives have morosely ended up at this salient moment in time. We are
frequently taken back to the past and brought back to the present with
an ease that defines the characters and the film. There is little in
the way of location and this adds to the desperation of the characters
as they live out their lives constrained by an evil power. The whole
cast are exceptional and their performance draws you deeper and deeper
into the film, and has you mentally willing to help these poor souls in
anyway you can. The direction and script are outstanding and
intelligent without being all smart ass! An excellent movie and a must
for movie fans who enjoy losing themselves in film.
