
A great movie with a stellar cast...was lucky to see the premiere
during TIFF. I haven't laughed so much throughout a movie for a long
time. In fact will have to see it again to catch all of the
conversations as audience was laughing so much. Surprised to hear
everyone breaking out in applause at various times during the movie.
Very uplifting, well worth the price of admission. Gordon Pinsent and
Brendan Gleeson's parts were my favorite characters, both superbly
played by these talented actors. And Taylor Kitsch in the role of Dr.
Lewis was the perfect straight man (handsome too). Congrats to writers
Michael Dowse and Ken Scott for drawing attention to the plight of east
coasters and treating a subject which could have been depressing with
humor and compassion. Kudos too to Don McKellar for his directing
accomplishment.
<|_=00=_|>
Set in Newfoundland, one of the most beautiful places on earth, the
views are constantly captivating. If you haven't been to Newfoundland,
i'd truly recommend it. You will see sights you've never seen before. 

The story Grand Seduction is cute, the acting sweet and endearing. The
laughs were plenty. I went with my wife, and I honestly haven't seen
her laugh so much in years. Each joke was just a little human insight. 

In a world of movies filled with monsters and vampires, or traveling
into the future to survive war and save the world....it was refreshing
to see a movie like Grand Seduction about real people...just living
real lives.

I'd recommend Grand Seduction as the perfect date night film.
<|_=00=_|>
The Grand Seduction is a charming movie that exceeded my expectations.
It brought attention to the plight of those living in the wreckage of
the broken fishing industry without becoming a depressing enviro-movie.

This character-driven film, lead by the brilliant Brendon Gleason, had
class, and heart, and humour that left me doubled over in laughter.
Gordon Pinsent absolutely steals the show with his dead-pan deliveries
and Taylor Kitsch brings a touch of 'Hollywood smoothness' to his role
of a city-slicker doctor.

No special effects, green-screen gimmicks or explosions (all of which I
love!) - and yet, more satisfying than any film I've seen this year.

Highly recommend!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a gentle movie, filled with gentle humour that brought smiles
of delight to every one of our group of six. The scenes of the
Newfoundland coast were breath taking. A great little story about a
community struggling for survival. Another reviewer was dismayed by all
of the citizens lining up for their welfare cheques. An exaggeration
yes, because it is a film, but the key message he missed was how noble
and honest, despite their desperate scam, the people of Newfoundland
are. When I took my family for a vacation in Newfoundland we were
mightily impressed by the scenic beauty but even more impressed by its
people and their genuine interest in others. It made us proud to be
Canadian and this film makes me proud of the Canadian film industry.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not usually a fan of these types of movies, but my friends
convinced me to see it and I am so very glad I did. It was funny and
silly and very well acted. I must say the "Dr" was not hard on the eyes
either.

The setting of Tickle Head was beautiful and reflects on the times in
Newfoundland.

My husband saw the French version of the film years ago, but really
enjoyed this version as well.

I would totally recommend this to anyone who enjoys a good laugh. There
people of all ages teens to seniors in the theatre and we all laughed
at the same times.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is brilliant. If you're tired of the same old fare that the
American Comedy giants make then see a movie that doesn't resort to
shock value or follow the one-up trend. See a movie with heart and
substance that has a point and makes you feel good about the world. In
"The Grand Seduction", The jokes range from brilliantly subtle to
absurdly silly and are designed to poke fun at everyday life in a small
coastal town. 

It really is a shame that this film wasn't given more of a chance in
theatres, and it's shocking that people can find something bad to say
about it. I, however found this film refreshing and I hope more
Canadian style comedies are made, even if they need to be stolen from
the French Canadians!
<|_=00=_|>
Tickle Head, a harbour in Newfoundland, has 125 souls who live mostly
off welfare cheques now that the cod is gone. After his wife and even
the mayor leave for work in St John's, Murray (Brendan Gleeson) thinks
up a grand scheme to seduce a doctor to come live in the village. An
oil company is looking to build a high-tech plant in the area, but one
of the requirements is that the town have a doctor. To get the plant,
they also have to get more people and get the cash together for a
bribe.

They force young Paul Lewis (Taylor Kitsch) to come to the village and
then try their hardest to please him so that he'll stay. However, it
turns out the doctor is into jazz and cricket, cannot fish at all, and
has a fianc√©e back home. Will their plan work? 

This movie worked for me for a number of reasons. Gleeson holds the
movie together with a superb performance. The scenery (filmed in
Trinity) is gorgeous. The same could be said for Taylor Kitsch, who
exudes magnetism and amiability in every scene. He can obviously act
but I suspect he was just playing himself in this movie.

Inevitably much of the gentle and sometimes ribald humour revolves
around the eccentric characteristics of the rural villagers. I don't
know how accurate the bumbling Newfie hick thing is, but Gordon Pinsent
and the rest played it to the hilt.

The movie went too far a few times but regardless I enjoyed it. It's
worth about 7.5 but I'll round it up. It's nice to see a non-Hollywood
movie like this for a change.
<|_=00=_|>
**Warning: Possible spoilers** Tickle Cove is a down on its luck
fishing village (I mean harbour) where the populous is forced to live
month to month on government welfare checks. After the mayor sneaks
away in the middle of the night to find work, self appointed new mayor
Murray French (Brendan Gleeson) is determined to do everything he can
to bring a new petrochemical recycling plant to town, but there is one
hitch; the village must have a doctor before the plant can be built.
When a doctor is sent to Tickle Cove to serve out a month of community
service Murray and the entire village will go to ludicrous lengths to
make sure their new doctor stays.

This is a gloriously charming film. It is one of the most enjoyable
films I have seen in a long time with outstanding performances by
everyone involved. It is hard not to become attached to these
characters and remain invested in them throughout the entire movie.

"The Grand Seduction" gets my whole hearted approval. I would
definitely recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
'THE GRAND SEDUCTION': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five) 

Comedy flick about a small harbor community, in Newfoundland, who try
to seduce a plastic surgeon, from a major Canadian city, into being
their doctor. It's an English-speaking remake of the 2003
French-Canadian film 'LA GRANDE SEDUCTION' (which was set on the coast
of Quebec). It was written by Michael Dowse and Ken Scott (the original
movie's writer) and directed by Don McKellar. The film stars Brendan
Gleeson and Taylor Kitsch (of 'JOHN CARTER', 'LONE SURVIVOR' and
'FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS' fame). I found the movie to be pretty silly at
times but still funny and ultimately uplifting.

The story begins with Murray French (Gleeson) telling (through
voice-over narration) how Tickle Head used to be a town of proud
fishermen. Now nearly everyone is unemployed and collects welfare.
Murray, like the other men of the town, desperately wants Tickle Head
to secure a deal which would allow a chemical plant to be built there;
this factory would create enough jobs for everyone. In order to do so
they must have a community doctor. When Dr. Christopher Lewis (Kitsch)
is stopped at the St. John's airport, with cocaine, the former mayor of
Tickle Head (who is now a flight security agent) makes him a deal; Dr.
Lewis must spend a month in Tickle Head as their doctor. It's up to
Murray, and the whole town, to convince him to stay longer; which
requires a lot of lying and seduction.

The movie isn't original at all; it reminds me of many other films,
about small towns and trickery (most notably 'WAKING NED DEVINE'). A
lot of the humor in it is pretty cheesy and some of the characters seem
exaggerated. Still the movie does have a lot of character, and charm,
and parts of it are pretty funny. The performances are great and, in
the end, I really did care about the characters; the sentimentality of
the film is what doesn't feel cheesy (unlike a lot of the jokes).
That's why I liked it.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://youtu.be/ZEmam3XwQxw
<|_=00=_|>
Loved this film when seeing a preview tonight. Hemril (?) this was made
in Canada not Hollywood and is yet another example of whimsical, funny,
character based storyline, without a special effect in sight.

The Canadian film industry has wonderful strengths which are sadly
always overshadowed by our brasher cousins south of the border.

Seems a bit harsh only allowing English text - as this is based on a
french story (and I am not a French speaker).

Also strange to be forced to write 10 lines - whatever happened to
brevity and concise opinion in writing. Really do I have to fill your
space with gibberish (and risk the review not being published)?
