
Tommy Lee Jones has a wry, dry character -- rich and deep as unwatered
open plains of the Americas. He's transferred his particular
personality power to the story of The Homesman. He's successfully
created a fine work of "auteur cinema" (much as I personally think this
form rarely exists).

The Homesman is an emotionally and powerful, idea-rich, almost
humorless story -- with an immense amount of humor. It has very tight,
economic tale telling with no fat on the bone; in which much is
implied, historical accuracy hits its target by nuance, and the story
itself is deeply respectful of an intelligent audience.

The Homesman is not "entertainment" in the haha, shoot-'em-up Western
sense. It's realism committed to a moral cause -- criticism of the
disenfranchised, the homeless, the people who cannot make it no matter
how hard they try. It has a brilliant sense of time and place that
tells the life stories of dozens of hard-enduring, long-suffering
"forgotten men" -- the women no less than the men.

The key heartbreaker is Hilary Swank's character of Miss Mary Bee
Cuddy. She's born into a Western frontier world where she and everyone
else believes and practices that "No man, having put his hand to the
plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God." Hard workers
and decent people. But tragically that is not enough. Why? The Homesman
leaves that question deliciously unanswered. Life is not fair. God is
not just.

Beautifully The Homesman does -- kind of -- answer life's problems with
the value of sheer vitality and gutsiness itself. Thus that key visual
motif in the movie that comes from: George Caleb Bingham, "The Jolly
Flatboatmen". We must dance the dance of life, however mad.
<|_=00=_|>
I need to get something off my chest: I'm not a fan of Tommy Lee Jones.
I find him limited in range, much the same in most roles and, worst of
all, he inexplicably won the Best Supporting Actor Oscar for The
Fugitive, thus depriving Pete Postlethwaite for In the Name of the
Father, Leonardo Di Caprio for What's Eating Gilbert Grape and Ralph
Fiennes for his performance of pure evil as Amon Goeth in Schindler's
List. In modern parlance, WTF? 

But periodically, just occasionally, once in a while, he inhabits the
screen in a manner that forces one to reconsider one's judgment. And so
it is with The Homesman.

The Homesman is something of a surprise, and not just because Tommy Lee
Jones is on remarkable form in it. Beyond a fine performance, the man
writes, directs and co-produces it. Hell's bells, when did he become so
damn good at everything? 

In the bad old days of the pioneers in the Wild West, Mary Bee Cuddy
(Hilary Swank) steps in when three women drift into various states of
madness and need to be transported across the country to be cared for
properly. Shunned by their husbands, denied help from the town's
menfolk and at a time where rape and murder hides behind every outcrop
of rock and every gnarled cactus, Cuddy sets off alone on her hazardous
journey. She stumbles across George Briggs (Tommy Lee Jones), a drifter
seated atop his horse, with a noose around his neck, waiting for his
steed to grow bored and leave him hanging. Literally. Cuddy offers to
save him on the condition that he accompanies her and so begins a
particular kind of journey.

The Homesman is probably described by many as a western, but that's
lazy. This is a road movie on horseback, a saunter across the plains, a
journey through mistrust and emotions where a mistake or misplaced
trust will result in death. It is a story of hope and love, not the
romantic kind, but real love for one's fellow human being, regardless
of whether they can, or will, reciprocate.

Shot beautifully with sprawling, dusty vistas that warm the heart and
prickle the nape, the backdrop is a vast canvas of character and
mystery upon which splashes of colour are smeared in the shape of
wandering, human dangers.

Though they say little, the trio of women (Grace Gummer, Miranda Otto
and Sonja Richter) are far more than peripheral characters or the
MacGuffin; they are the substance that binds The Homesman and the
reason for the drama, gentle though it is. As we saw in Mr. Turner,
such characters can so easily become pantomime animals with over
performance that slaps the viewer in the face and detracts from the
whole, of which they are but a small part. Not so here. Grace Gummer,
particularly, as the mostly mute but vacantly animated Arabella is
terrific and we want to reach into the screen and gently push her back
towards sanity. It is a beautiful, understated performance that remains
in mind long after the event.

Tommy Lee Jones and Hilary Swank make a surprising double act but the
chemistry is there in abundance. Both Cuddy and Briggs carry their own
needs and daemons with them; neither would give the other a second
glance ordinarily but circumstance prompts odd, emotional couplings and
theirs is fraught with suspicion and obligation. It is fantastic to see
Swank back to the form that brought her gongs and made us sit up and
watch in Boys Don't Cry and Million Dollar Baby. This is a far less
demonstrative performance, but no less steely or impactful because of
it.

Tommy Lee Jones's performance is the most compelling, engrossing that I
can recall. Beyond that, his direction is worth celebrating loudly. The
Homesman is only his second feature as director (after 2006's wonderful
but little seen The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada) but there are
hints that he may step into Clint Eastwood's shoes alongside Ben
Affleck and Sean Penn. Just when we think we have the measure of this
tale, he belts us sharply around the jowls, proving he has the mettle
to surprise and shock us out of our complacency.

Maybe, after years and years of apparently coasting, broodily on film
and staring into space, it will transpire he was merely absorbing,
waiting for the moment to own both sides of the screen and captivate
us.

You know what, maybe he's always been this good but I just didn't see
it.

For more reviews from The Squiss, subscribe to my blog and like the
Facebook page.
<|_=00=_|>
The Homesman, written and directed and starring Tommy Lee Jones tells
the story of Mary Bee Cuddy (Hilary Swank) a spinster who takes on the
responsibility of bringing three insane women to Iowa where they can be
taken care of.

She saves or spares the life of George Briggs (Tommy Lee Jones) and
enlists him on her arduous five week journey.

When you see Hilary Swank and Tommy Lee Jones, you know the acting is
going to be stellar. The parts of the insane women, Arabella Sours
(Grace Gummer), Theoline Belknapp (Miranda Otto), Gro Svendsen (Sonja
Richter) because of the great directing remained the focus while being
secondary characters. The movie had a Shakespearean feel to it and that
is a great compliment. These ladies portrayed insanity, believably and
that takes serious dedication and acting ability.

"The Homesman" was a tragedy and because of it, some people might not
be able to pallet the story; there were some shocking attention
grabbing scenes that the average viewer might not be prepared for.
Those scenes, to me, were great examples of a different time, a time
when life was hard and people died.

The Homesman is a story that sits with you and makes you thankful for
many things, even if it just the shoes on your feet.
<|_=00=_|>
The story behind this movie is so engaging that it is a perfect
platform for good performances and none of the players disappoints.
Hilary Swank has never been better: tough but kind-hearted, determined
but vulnerable. Tommy Lee Jones is at his salty, rough-edged,
believable best. Since Mr. Jones also directed the film it is not just
his rugged pioneer character that creates the authenticity of this
portrait the Plains sod-busters in pre-statehood Nebraska. From the
opening scene your senses are immersed in the grit, hunger, muscle-ache
and the incessant wind of this stark place that always seems to be on
the edge of disaster. The casting was impeccable, down to the smallest
role and especially for the non-speaking parts (that will make more
sense once you've seen the film.) I don't think the movie is without
flaws. There is one scene that I felt was unnecessary and presented the
male lead (Jones) out of character. If not for that I would have rated
this beautiful, riveting movie a 10.
<|_=00=_|>
'THE HOMESMAN': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

Tommy Lee Jones directed, co-wrote and stars in this western/drama film
(set in the 1850s midwest) about a 'spinster' and a 'drifter'
transporting three women, driven mad by the hardships of the time,
across the country. It costars Hilary Swank, Miranda Otto, Grace Gummer
and Sonja Richter. It also features cameos by Meryl Streep, John
Lithgow, James Spader, Tim Blake Nelson, William Fichtner and Hailee
Steinfeld. The film was written by Jones, Kieran Fitzgerald and Wesley
Oliver and it's based on the 1988 novel, of the same name, by Glendon
Swarthout. French filmmaker Luc Besson served as a producer of the
movie and it also features a breathtaking music score by Marco
Beltrami. It's surprisingly dark, and extremely disturbing, but I
enjoyed it due to it's strong character development, outstanding
performances and odd beauty.

Swank plays Mary Bee Cuddy, a strong and independent 31-year-old woman
from New York. She desperately wants to find a husband but can't, due
to men finding her too plain looking (I don't think Swank looks bad at
all in this movie, considering the film's time and setting). When the
local reverend (Lithgow) asks for someone to transport three women
across the country, to a church in Hebron Iowa, Cuddy volunteers. The
women (Otto, Gummer and Richter) are all mentally ill and the church
will provide the special help they need. Cuddy comes across a drifter
named George Briggs (Jones), who's about to be lynched for 'claim
jumping', and asks him for his help (in return for saving his life).
The two make the long journey together and form an odd bond.

The movie has been called a 'feminist western', by many, and I'd
definitely agree it's a strong female character study, about the
hardships women faced at the time. Swank is outstanding in the co- lead
and Jones is just as classic and tough as ever; he does
(unintentionally I think) steal some of the female cast's thunder.
Jones also proves he's an equally talented director (once again) and
the movie is full of beautiful visuals, as well as haunting imagery.
For me the highlight of the film is the beautiful music and the
touching relationships formed by the movie's central characters (it
also has a shocking and unexpected twist, at the end of the second
act). It's a hard film to watch, at times, but definitely worth it; if
you're a fan of the genre or even if you're not.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://youtu.be/1_bZp5ejQ4I
<|_=00=_|>
Given that three women in the Nebraska Territory all went raving mad at
the same time (maybe it was the Danish rye bread), this tale grabs us
immediately with its starkness, bitterness and coldness, not to mention
lack of compassion. Tommy Lee Jones as a drunken old reject is right on
the mark. Hillary Swank is no longer a sexy young gal, rather a bitter
lonely hard-working single woman trying to eke out a living in the
unforgiving wilderness. Every scene, every moment is captivating. You
may not even like what you're seeing, but you can't stop watching.
Somehow, even though I thought three mad women at one time seemed
contrived, I had to accept that it was just that way. Shortly after
getting organized, the film turns into a road picture, but what a road,
or lack thereof. Jones, Swank and the three locas have to traverse
empty countryside, facing drought, Indians, hunger, privation of every
kind, for at least five weeks to get to a place where a kindly
preacher's wife (Meryl Streep, as usually so immersed in this small
part that you just know she's really a long-suffering preacher's wife)
has promised to care for them. Developer James Spader too has only a
few brief moments to do his thing, but it's unforgettable. When my
granddaughter was small, we used to watch films together. Sometimes
when we watched a film she really really liked, (think Zoot Suit),
she'd burst out crying at the end. I'd ask, "Why are you crying, Baby
Girl?" and she'd say, "Because I didn't want it to be over." I felt
this way about The Homesman. I didn't want it to be over. I had lots
more questions and things I'd like to see resolved. What happened to
the hotel and town development? What happened to the man (William
Fichtner, always a pleasure) and his two little girls? What happened to
the crazy women and whatever happened to Briggs (Jones)? A sad cold
story, but one you just can't walk away from.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great movie which in its offbeat dramaturgy depicts the
unpredictability, pointlessness and hardships of life. And it does so
with an underlying sense of humor which is almost Kafkaesque and
absurd. Don't let the settings fool you this is not a western flick,
it is timeless, and it serves as a tasty, simple snack for the already
thinking viewer. All "plotholes" pointed out by other reviewers
actually makes sense when thinking about them, and once again kudos to
the unpredictable, non-conformant, "non-template-A" storyline and
character arcs which should be seen more in film and television.

A little too much use of "fade-in fade-out" in the cutting, a little
unrealistic portrayal of mental disease, and a little uninspiring
photography IMO actually, but otherwise a great flick for the thinking
person. With guns.
<|_=00=_|>
December 19, 2014

A homesman is someone tasked to bring people back to their homes. In
this film, the people that needed safe transport are three mentally-
disturbed women. Mary Bee McCuddy, a plain but hardy spinster,
volunteered to be their homesman. Along the way, she rescues a old man
Thomas Briggs from being hung by vigilantes and conscripts him to help
her with her mission in exchange for saving his life. Together, they
gather the three ladies and escort them from Nebraska homes across the
dangerous Midwest prairie to a safe haven in Iowa.

Hilary Swank is an actress who had already won a couple of Oscars for
playing strong women who had taken on masculine roles in life --
Brandon Teena in "Boys Don't Cry" and Maggie Fitzgerald in "Million
Dollar Baby". As Mary Bee McCuddy, a pioneer lady who bravely accepts a
task only men are expected to do, Swank again goes on the same
award-baiting path. The movie worked so well when Swank was on screen.
She was absolutely compelling in this offbeat role as if this was
written with her in mind. The movie was not the same when her character
was not there.

Tommy Lee Jones is one actor who, as of late, had seemingly been
confined to playing curmudgeonly and cantankerous old men, and his
Briggs here is not any different. This film is only Jones' second
directorial effort since his critically-acclaimed debut in "Three
Burials of Melquiades Estrada" back in 2005. As director, he was very
generous to his lead female star Swank, and always gave way to let her
shine. As actor, he does consistently as he is expected but this role
of a grumpy old outlaw seems too familiar for him already. He wisely
played Briggs with some self-deprecating humor to break the tendency of
the story to become monotonously bleak.

There were some remarkable cameos from other award-winning or nominated
stars in much smaller roles. John Lithgow is his usual capable self
playing the Reverend Dowd who reluctantly sends McCuddy off on her
task. Hailee Steinfeld plays 16-year old Tabitha Hutchinson to whom
Briggs offers a surprising proposal. James Spader, in his usual
over-the-top style, plays condescending hotel owner Aloysius Duffy. And
last, but definitely not the least, none other than THE Meryl Streep
plays perfectly kind and hospitable Altha Carter, who runs the
institution in Iowa the women are headed for. These actors appear on
screen for only ten minutes or so, but they leave a lasting impression.

The narrative may have been slow and desolate . However, the unusual
situations, disturbing imagery, startling story developments and
committed performances by the cast all keep our attention riveted. The
cinematography with the muted colors worked well with the windswept
landscape of its setting, as much a character in itself. The costumes
and production design rang true to its mid-19th century time period.
The haunting and unsettling musical score create an atmosphere of
bitter emptiness. The insufferably miserable topic is clearly not for
everyone. But for those who decide to give it a chance, the rewards
will be satisfying. 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I learned something today. Luc Besson - the Producer - may give us
tremendous movies when he dares to, when he is in "the mood" for. This
one is the perfect example, at a billion miles away from the usual
garbage Junk stuff Besson usually gives us. Crap factory from Europa
Corp. 

This film is a masterpiece, so was another Europacorp film directed by
the same Tommy Lee Jones, back in 2005, THREE BURIALS that no one can
forget. Such as this one. An unusual and surprising western. 

Hillary Swank is here at her best ever, probably better than in MILLION
DOLLAR BABY. Clint Eastwood could have made this one, and not only as a
director...

A poignant, gripping story that glues you to your seat from the start
to the end. The odyssey, the melancholic journey of a man and a woman,
so different from one to the other, who are in charge of three lunatic
females. An offbeat and also outstanding tale, adapted from a Glendon
Swarthout's novel, the author of THE SHOOTIST, from which Don Siegel
made the last John Wayne's film, back in 1976.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked the western "The Homesman", but I strongly suspect that
it won't be to everyone's taste. And I will admit that even this die
hard fan of westerns didn't find it a perfect movie. The opening thirty
minutes of the movie, for one thing, are somewhat confusing with some
details, though eventually everything comes together and the audience
knows what's been going on. And after that first thirty minutes, the
movie continues to test the patience of viewers by being quite slow
moving and long (the movie is over two hours long.) But I stuck with
the movie despite all those things, and I feel I was rewarded in the
end. The atmosphere of the movie feels extremely authentic, showing
many of the hardships life in the wild west gave many people. Though
the story is slow-moving, there are a number of interesting vignettes
along the way. And you probably won't predict what eventually happens -
the major plot turn around the two-thirds mark really took me by
surprise. The last scene is a little unclear as to where one of the
characters is headed, but it is memorable all the same. As I said, the
movie is not for all tastes, but western fans who are in a patient mood
will likely embrace it despite its flaws.
