
Spoiler free review. Let me first start of by saying that I am not a
Marvel ''fanboy'' or a DC nerd. The comic book genre of films have made
it to my personal top 3 favourite genres in the last decade and the MCU
has been a strong contributor to that rise. I hold the first Ironman,
first Avengers and Captain America 1+2 in high regard. I did not like
the direction they took with Iron Man 3 (more on this below) or
Guardians of the Galaxy but Winter Soldier was a gem in terms of
balancing solid action, drama and levity.

That being said, my initial thoughts on Age of Ultron (AoU) are quite
negative. To me, its essentially a carbon copy of IM3. There are
problems which strike you repeatedly as you progress throughout the
film. The 2 biggest complaints I have with AoU is 1) the tone (comedy)
2) the script/writing.

So starting with the tone. I like to laugh as I'm sure most people do,
but there is a time and place to exhibit your comedy writing skills in
an action film. In AoU, its a constant, recurring and predictable
theme. It's not limited to one character either, everyone is popping
one liner jokes as if its the Expendables and yes, most are not funny.
The timing of these moments of levity are horrible too, desensitising
the viewer to any impending fear of death in battle. If the characters
seem so relaxed in not worrying about possibly dying, then what
suspense is needed to be held by the audience? This plagued IM3 in a
bad way and its arguably worse here. The comic book films which
achieved great success in this regard were XMen DOFP, The Avengers 1,
Cap 2 even Dark Knight Rises! Can you imagine at the climax of Xmen
DOFP if old Magneto and Storm and Bishop start pulling one liner jokes
as the army of sentinels came charging at them? It would kill any
tension! 2) The script. I won't say too much since this is a spoiler
free review, but it really feels rushed and unorganised. I watched Fast
7 around 2 weeks before AoU and I got similar vibes. Again, its not the
fact that the film is 2.5 hours long or has too many characters, that
isn't am excuse since The Dark Knight and Xmen DOFP shows how to
navigate these theatrical obstacles. There are a few completely
unnecessary subplots in AoU and useless characters which do not impact
the story overall. The villain himself, Ultron is another massive
let-down in Marvels already growing catalogue of mishandled villains.

So as a summary, if you want mindless action and cool CGI, which this
film does offer in the form of some spectacular visual fight scenes
then you will like AoU. If you are after a darker, grounded and more
moving story like the trailers promised, you will be severely
disappointed. Final score 6/10 and I am being kind since Cap is my fav
Avenger and they finally gave him some good screen time.
<|_=00=_|>
I have noticed a trend of negative reviews directed at the humor in the
movie. Listen...humor is subjective. It's also a big part of these
types of movies. When I read someone criticize the movie because the
heroes are dropping one-liners during intense fighting scenes and to
them, this downplays the seriousness of the situation or shows a lack
of concern for safety from our heroes, I shake my head so hard I get
dizzy.

This is a comic book movie! It's a fantasy/fiction/whatever you want to
call it! I'm not a comic book expert, but have been a big fan of the
Marvel Universe on film since Iron Man 1. I found the writing in AoU to
be sharp and witty. And yes, I laughed more than I thought I would. 

"There's not enough character development!" I've seen this in the
negative reviews, too. Look, we've had 3 Iron Mans, 2 Captain Americas,
2 Thors, and a Hulk movie to develop the characters. At this point,
there isn't much more we really need, is there? Yes, we see more about
Hawkeye's personal side here, but to me, that only feels fair since
he's not big enough to carry his own film. And given that he's very
much just a human with a great set of physical skills and is less
protected and faces his mortality far more than the others do, I felt
like it made perfect sense here. We see and learn more about Black
Widow in this one, as well. So the complaints about character
development don't hold any weight to me. It sounds like the angst of a
group of people expecting to see the Empire Strikes Back version of the
Avengers. 

In Age of Ultron, we get immediate, sustained action. I don't know
about you, but if I'm going to watch a movie with a cast of characters
that have the abilities of the Avengers, I want to see them in action!
The creativity of the collaborative fighting was improved as well and
was featured much more so than in the first one. That was something
that I think the first film lacked, the side by side teamwork. This
movie held my attention from start to finish. 

As my summary says above, Mjollnir is a pleasantly surprising star of
the movie. When you watch it, you'll see why and in my opinion, if you
don't enjoy its role here, you really just have a bad attitude!
<|_=00=_|>
being a huge Marvel fan, and also Josh Whedon fan I was super excited
for him to come back and do another Avengers movie. The first film was
pretty brilliant. But with this film, Whedon wasn't given much air to
breathe, with constant Studio interference and orders of certain shots
to be re- done, or scrapped if not worse. Put in.

So, you thinking why is this film so bad, if you are a fan, you should
love it. Well the film changes pace, very quickly and abruptly, which
is a poor sign of movie making. The Characters do not act like they
would usually act in the same scenario, the progression of the story is
all over the place, Scene's that just have no weight or meaning to the
film, but in there because it looks cool or is setting up another
independent super hero movie, the Villain that is so smart, but doesn't
use the internet and his ability to control everything just to wipe out
everybody, but rather has this ridiculously stupid plan. The Hero's
that are suppose to be smart, intelligent and some what Spanish do not
see all of the stupid plot hole that get infiltrated. 

The fighting was also a problem for me, it was the same. Once you saw
it in the first Avengers, you see exact same thing in the second one
too, and it doesn't even change a little.

Overall, this film is bunched up due to the constant interference by
Studio as Josh has stated so many times now.
<|_=00=_|>
"People stopped being people in 1913. That was the year Henry Ford put
his cars on rollers and made his workers adopt the speed of the
assembly line. At first, workers rebelled. They quit in droves. Now we
plug right into repetitive motions of a hundred kinds." - Jeffrey
Eugenides 

Produced by Marvel Studios (now a subsidiary of the Walt Disney
Company), "Avengers: Age of Ultron" is a gazillion dollar superhero
movie. Most of the film consists of dull, unimaginative action
sequences in which powerful "good warriors" battle powerful "bad
warriors". These action sequences - which have no sense of style, tempo
and which are totally devoid of tension - are rolled out like crude,
Pavlovian commands; the chemical rushes cynically demanded by corporate
candy factories.

Breaking up the monotony of these monotonous actions sequences are
equally monotonous and equally mechanical scenes in which our heroes
"talk", "reveal their personalities" and "share their feelings". These
scenes exist, not because Marvel Studios has any interest in drama,
characters or continuity, but because "films are supposed to have these
scenes". In the Marvel universe, nothing really matters. The individual
plots and over-arching plot lines of Marvel's films don't matter.
Characters don't matter. These things are only present to present the
illusion of storytelling. They are filler. The constituents of a
factory assembly line whose sole goal is the procurement of money.

You can't have a Marvel Movie without a super-villain. This time around
our villain's a Really Bad Guy who wants to do Really Bad Stuff and who
ironically pokes fun at Conventional Movie Villain Dialgoue whilst
actually totally adhering to clich√©s. This villain (spoiler?) is
defeated. Along the way, the film "comically" delivers its obligatory
"one swear word", but not before a room full of lawyers and marketing
executives run up the data, salivate over pie-charts and double check
with global ratings boards.

Marvel Studios has a history of roping in "irreverent" and "edgy"
directors. Afterall, you can't sell cookie cuttered dough to zombies
without pretending it's the work of a rebel. As such, "Age of Ultron"
was directed by Joss Whedon, a geek-king with a flair for zany
dialogue. But like Tarantinospeak, Woody Allenspeak, Mametspeak and
Coenspeak, Joss Whedonspeak is now officially annoying. Indeed,
everyone in Whedon's "Ultron" now sports the same voice. Every
character, be they villain, hero, co-star, robot or computer, is an
ironic, sarcastic, wisecracking master of zany one liners. This orgy of
flippancy, non-sequiturs and "cool dialogue" reeks of desperation; cool
stops being cool when everyone speaks cool.

Watching most Marvel Movies is a bit like being forced to watch a
pornographic movie for a full two hours past the point of ejaculation.
"Ultron" in particular bludgeons you with bludgeoning. It's filled with
CGI muscle-men pounding and stomping, blowing up buildings and tossing
cars back and forth, and then doing it again, and again and again and
again, and then again in the sequels and then again on the directors'
cuts, and then again in the reboots, and then again in the reboots'
sequels and then again and again. And then a few more times. And then
again and again.

Today, Marvel Studios now rolls like one of the world's largest
conveyor belts; factory film-making as the epitome of the
self-perpetuating capitalist machine, repackaging and marketing to
every inch of the world. Art subservient to product cycles, product
obsolescence and schizoid brains. And all the while, the Studio keeps
expanding, pushing their movies in the summer, their TV shows in the
fall/winter, and their streaming shows in the spring before the cycle
is repeated all over again. With the new mantra of #ItsAllConnected -
ironic, considering no Marvel show/series meaningfully connects to
another - Marvel moves like the cinematic equivalent of malware. And
now that Disney's acquired the "Star Wars" franchise, we can expect it
to similarly start squeezing new "Star Wars" movies out of its
mechanical orifices like diseased clockwork.

Incidentally, like most recent Marvel movies, "Age of Ultron's" chief
villain is essentially a Western defence contract run amok. So we have
another "anti violence", "anti military" Marvel film which gets its
kicks from violence, mass murder and the flattering of whole cities.
Lazily written and acted, the film finds actor Mark Ruffalo continuing
to be excellent, soulful and layered. He plays the Hulk, a property
damage loving green dude with magical pants.

3/10 ¬ñ What was Ultron's age anyway? Was that dude even legal? Worth no
viewings.
<|_=00=_|>
It's quite an achievement to make a boring Superhero Movie so well done
to all involved.

Remember the first average at best Avengers Movie? A baddie in control
of the Tesseract uses it and an alien army to try and take over the
planet. Whilst this is happening the Avengers are brought together
where there are a few internal issues involving having their minds
controlled &/or beating each other up, before joining forces to beat
the alien threat.

Well.... 

This movie is about a baddie who was in control of the Tesseract which
then becomes the catalyst for a new robot baddie and it's robot army
trying to destroy the planet. This again creates a few internal issues
involving the Avengers having their minds controlled &/or beating each
other up, before joining forces to beat the robot threat. 

It's just the same movie repackaged (again) which tries to be
intelligent but comes across as dull. 

Some of the Avengers presence have little or no no point in being in
the movie (Hawkeye just being there for example to offer the others a
weekend retreat to go to).

But as with the first movie and the upcoming Captain America: Civil War
it seems as long as the movie is crammed full of as many Superheroes as
possible and they all kick off at some point during the movie, then
this is enough to keep an audience happy.

Stick with the X-Men at least they make an effort!
<|_=00=_|>
In 2012, there came a day unlike any other day where the worlds
greatest heroes were united against a common threat and THE AVENGERS
blew away audiences of all ages with the first ever comic book movie
crossover. In 2015, there came another day unlike any other day and
this time the world is threatened by a Ultron, the cynical critical
atypical child of Skynet and Megatron...... No actually he's just a
wisecracking artificial intelligence with delusions of godhood and all
round evil. Turning on his creators, he threatens all life on earth
with his sidekicks "illusion- woman" and "not-the-flash"....I mean,
Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver, and it is up to the Avengers to take him
out before he can usher in THE AGE OF ULTRON. 

Instead of the robot dominated dystopian future that we saw in the
comics, what we do get is more "the next few days of Ultron". No
matter, it is an exciting few days with director Joss Whedon balancing
the intercharacter dynamics with awesome action pieces from
claustrophobic close combat, to a freeway chase, to the much advertised
no holds barred beat down between the Hulk and iron man's new "hulk
buster" Armour. All this is supplemented with beautiful special effects
from Industrial Lights and Magic ILM. Flawless work befitting the
movie's massive Budget.

In The villain, Ultron, the Writers have crafted a memorable though
under utilised bad guy. Ultron could have been the vehicle to explore
deeper themes, themes that were merely hinted at but never fleshed out.
Instead, His cynical yet refined snarling courtesy of James Spader
reminds me of the those magnificently passionate Super villains that
were so common in Saturday morning cartoons of old.

And that is exactly what this is. AGE OF ULTRON can be described as a
true live action cartoon. The dialogue is light hearted, the story is
straightforward, the tone is fun and the action is immense. And this is
not exactly a good thing. Intense scenes are interrupted and spoilt
with poorly placed humour and once again the story does not seem to
take itself seriously. 

Fights are over-choreographed, more like some fancy ballet than an all
out battle. The fact that it cuts to graceful slow motion once in a
while only emphasises the dance like nature of the fights. 

And yet the movie felt like pieces of it were cut out. The narrative
does not flow as smoothly as the first with inexplicable scenes like
Thor suddenly going off on his hallucination trip. Much of the premise
and the characters development up to this point very much depends on
the viewer watching prior marvel movies. 

It is here that Marvel studio's continuity heavy Creative direction
rears its ugly head. To know what is going on in this movie, one would
have to watch the previous movies. Captain America the winter soldier,
iron man 3, the first avengers movie. But perhaps that's the point?
Force people to go buy the Blu rays or the video to rewatch and get up
to speed. In the end, the real big winner is distributor Disney.
Ka-Ching $$.

I like a good comedy. In in a big action blockbuster, I like to believe
that the stakes are real, that the dangers faced by our heroes are
real, that they are really fighting for the fate of the world. Instead,
we get this cartoony violence, with equally cartoony superficial story,
where heroes joke around with quick lighthearted quips in the middle of
a fight scene where people could die. This kills tension. And if it
weren't for the magnificent effects, action and direction, AGE OF
ULTRON would have scored a bit lower.
<|_=00=_|>
Never watch this movie it is an insult to the superhero movie category.
Their is simply nothing good about this movie the scene were they are
drinking and chilling was OK but 99% of the film was cringy and simply
bad it ignored all sense of relationships or personal lives the
characters may have and pited them against a hastily put together
villain with the personality of a child who often had looney tunes
references and scenes, for example near the end Ultron is about to be
hit by the hulk and the whole world pauses while he has some cringy
unfunny one liner along the lines of "hey how about we call it a truce"
then he is punched away into the distance as the world starts back up
again it felt like the director had fallen asleep watching a wille e
coyote cartoon the night before filming this scene.

The visuals were as great as ever but their comes a time when
explosions and different coloured iron man suits don't progress the
narrative look at the later transformer movies they made a lot of money
yet are awful films, it is disheartening that this trash is the highest
grossing superhero movie. The scripts are pathetic the MCU isn't known
for good script writing but this film is the worst of the worst every
single sentence feels like they are trying to get a cheap laugh out of
the audience and that might be OK if it was just iron man up to it but
its not every single hero and the villain are cracking wise in every
single scene and it isn't funny anymore the script writers need to be
sacked it just reminds you of green lanterns cringy script in his
standalone. 

A couple of the biggest mistakes in this movie from the endless list of
flaws would be how they killed off quicksilver... as any comic fan
knows you simply cannot kill a speedster with bullets it is the dumbest
way to get rid of such a character and this film did it proud by making
the stupidest portrayal of a speedster of screen their has been. They
didn't only mess up the characters origin because they don't own the
rights to the xmen which could be forgiven but they then released the
movie along side his actual portrayal in xmen Days of future past and
then went on to kill him off in the same movie he was introduced in i
mean really? Visions introduction in this movie has to be one the most
forced origin stories i have seen it didn't fit at all with the
narrative and they just kept pushing it down the audience throats it
was very poorly handled but as spiderman now holds the throne for worst
introduction into a superhero movie after Civil Wars lame ass
representation of the character it is less shocking as it seems like
the norm for the MCU to not give a crap about their characters :'(
<|_=00=_|>
This movie takes a long time to gain any steam, with a lot of all talk
and no action in the first half of the movie. There is also little
suspense and intrigue - just the superheroes pondering and conjuring
their next mission, with Tony Stark and Bruce Banner creating a project
called Ultron to act as a peacekeeping program serving as the movie's
backdrop.

The Ultron project goes horribly wrong and the machine takes a mind of
its own, threatening to rid the world of humans in attempts to "save
the world" - something we've heard before.

We get to see action slowly trickle in during the second half of the
movie slowly - lots of crazy CGI action during the rumbling climax.
This film's plot sets the story for the next film, Captain America:
Civil War, in motion. However, I thought this film overall lacked the
entertainment value due to its extremely slow plot and lackluster
story.

Grade D
<|_=00=_|>
...Phase 2 of the Marvel movies had been batting .500 for me. I did not
enjoy Iron Man 3 or Thor: Dark World, but really dug Guardians of the
Galaxy and Captain America: Winter Soldier (Cap 2 is probably the best
film in the entire Marvel series!)

Based on that, I don't think I am surprised that I came out of Age of
Ultron with mixed feelings. Overall it is a solid entry, but it is by
no means flawless. 

The good:

Really liked the intro of Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver. I liked the
horror-movie tropes tied to Scarlet Witch (she is a Witch afterall!)
and Aaron Taylor-Johnson's Quicksilver had a lot of personality.

The action, of course, was great. And Hawkeye actually had something to
do in this film. 

The Vision: They did such an incredible job building mystique around
this character.

The Bad:

Wasn't a fan of that extended scene at the Farm. That stopped the movie
cold. I know some people say "It was necessary for character
development", but the previous films had done such a poor job of giving
Hawkeye any character that seeing him on the Farm did absolutely
nothing for me.

The romance: Ugh. Talk about forced. I like Ruffalo's Banner. I really
do. I was surprised how much i did in the first Avengers, cause i'm
usually not a Ruffalo fan. But I just did not see any chemistry between
Ruffalo and Scar-Jo. And where was the build-up to this? Last time we
saw these 2 together Hulk was trying to smash Black Widow. 

Marvel needs to work on their female-story lines.

Ultron was kind of a lame villain. I don't think there was enough
build-up for him. He just sorta showed up and was evil.

Overall: Is it worth seeing in the theatre? Yes of course it is. But it
is not without its flaws, and sure doesn't top Cap 2.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a failure on many levels. There was a serious lack of
story, the humor was very forced in an overabundance of one-liners, bad
CGI in some places, and a very under-developed Villain. The movie
focused a lot on the characters in the movie and developing them, but
not even that much. We get a few tidbits about each, except Thor,
Stark/Ironman, and Hulk/Banner. Thor was hardly in the movie, only
shown on screen for a few minutes after leaving the team to basically
setup the next movie and where the story is going (Infinity War), but
is glossed over so quickly most people won't catch it, especially those
who have no idea about story arcs in the comics. Ultron's reveal was
absolutely perfect, it set him up as an intimidating and powerful
villain, then when he gets his own mechanical body, he turns into a
comedy act and does not look real because the CGI metal looks terrible,
along with the stupid moving mouth when he speaks.

Every character in the movie was trying to be a comedian in the movie.
The only moment that felt serious or dire was the reveal of Ultron (and
then turned into a joke later). The ending of course has a big battle
with all the Ultron bots, but seriously, why do they even have Thor in
the close quarters fighting with them? His lightning could have fried
most of them, then they have Thor not fight Ultron back just so Vision
(Which they never called him by his name) could be seen holding Thor's
hammer again and make a stupid remark about the balance of the hammer.

Stark/Ironman is basically having amnesia forgetting the events of
Ironman 3. And then turns into a "mad scientist" with Banner to create
Ultron, totally against his way of thinking after the events of Ironman
3. Ironman also does everything he knows the team will get mad at him
for doing, but does it anyway without consulting them.

Black Widow is basically the Avengers "Mattress" in that she is now
flirting with a 4th Avenger (1st was Ironman in Ironman 2, 2nd was
Hawkeye in The Avengers, 3rd was Captain America in The Winter Soldier)
and now the 4th is Bruce Banner/Hulk. She is a better character than
that, but all she gets is flirting with everyone.

We are introduced to 2 other characters dubbed "The Twins" though they
never give them names. Probably because of Fox owns the rights to
X-Men, but their names are Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver. Quicksilver
dies, and of course, says a one-liner, and yet we feel nothing for his
death as we never knew him......he is a 1- dimensional character. At
least in X-Men Day of Future Past we get to know Quicksilver in there,
and his special effects were a hell of a lot better.

This film was a catastrophe, and should not be praised in anyway.
