
All I can say is Thank You!!! This is what I want to see when I go to
the movies looking to enjoy a good summer blockbuster!!! Man, talk
about a fun ride. It was humorous, exciting, thrilling, suspenseful,
and well worth the price of admission.

Tom Cruise really gets it when it comes to entertaining your average
moviegoer and he doesn't disappoint. But the truth is, no one
disappoints in this summer flick. All parties brought their 'A' game
and played their part perfectly. The female lead (Rebecca Ferguson)
really held her own alongside Ethan Hunt and the crew and hopefully
we'll see her in future installments, if there is more. Based on this
current installment, there should definitely be more.

MI:1 is a classic in my eyes and I've watched it countless times, but I
must say, Rogue Nation...well, it's a lot more fun and I do feel it is
a better film overall. I will be watching this one again and again. And
don't wait for it to come to video...this is a movie you must see in
theaters for the full experience.

Also, let me just say the stunt sequences are thrilling...thrilling I
say!! Very limited CGI in this film, which made the action scenes even
more exciting and dare I say it again...thrilling! Lots of gasp worthy
moments.

I won't give away any spoilers as that would ruin the exciting action
sequences and fun twists. This is enjoyable from beginning to end. So
just go see it!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen the previous four 'Mission Impossible' films, I have to
admit that none of them impressed me to the degree that I had hoped. I
guess my expectations for action thrillers centering on secret agents
were set too high because I saw the 'Bourne' trilogy and Daniel Craig's
James Bond films first. The first three 'MI' films all seemed a little
too slow, cheesy or convoluted on my first viewing. The fourth one was
pretty good, even if the story does feel a little forgettable

So, where does that bring me for the fifth entry of the franchise? My
expectations were set at average around this time, despite all the good
word-of-mouth I've been hearing. However, it wouldn't have mattered if
my expectations were set around the same level for the latest 'Bourne'
or James Bond film (very high)  'MI:5' blew everything I'd expected
from it and then some! 

Where to begin? The film possible contains the biggest, and possibly
best, story out if all the other installments. It is fascinatingly
complex and dynamic  moving from country to country, dealing with
characters who have questionable allegiances  all on top of Ethan Hunt
trying to outrun the CIA while trying to get to the bottom of what the
Syndicate really wants. It may seem like a lot, but the script is
really well structured and paced. Even though the film does take a few
liberties with how some of its characters will ultimately act in the
end, the plot isn't nearly as predictable as one would make it out to
be. Writer/director Christopher McQuarrie also manages to squeeze in
some surprisingly silly moments at the most random of moments.

The action scenes in this film are also some of the best in this
franchise. Soon after showing Ethan Hunt take off on the side of an
airbus, the film kicks it into overdrive and delivers an adrenaline
rush packed with REALLY well done car chases, okay hand-to-hand combat
scenes (they're kind of choppy), and ONE very suspenseful,
pulse-pounding scene involving multiple snipers. McQuarrie's direction
over the editing of these sequences is incredibly nuanced  so much so
that I found myself repeatedly leaning over the edge of my seat with
excitement.

People who weren't fans of the cheese factor (forced romances,
convenient gadgets, and the overuse of face masks) of the previous
films would be glad to know that it's been done away with in this film.
And for people fearing that this is a film that takes itself too
seriously, let me be one of the first to say: it doesn't. One may draw
parallels between the events that have happened in this film to some of
the recent events in our world, but I see it as a clever way for the
franchise to keep up with our times.

'Mission Impossible: Rogue Nation' is without a doubt one of the most
exciting films I've had the pleasure of experiencing this year. It
completely took me by surprise with how well-done it was, and should
just about take anyone else to the same conclusion.
<|_=00=_|>
You would think that after five films this would have become a tired
premise, but the way that it takes on the spy genre as both an
intelligent espionage thriller as well as a big-budget blockbuster
makes it even better than the new James Bond films. 

It's exciting, slick, cool and fun, but this series, most of all in
this film, has got an amazingly inexhaustible energy to it that makes
it so brilliant.

Let's start, then, with the main attraction of this film: the action.
Simply, it's stunning. There are five separate big action sequences
here, each lasting around ten minutes more or less, and they are all
high-octane thrill-rides that never let up and make this such an
entertaining film.

Tom Cruise proves once again that he's a blockbuster star like no
other, giving his all in the action here, whether it's attaching
himself to a plane, jumping in a chasm of water or riding a superbike
through the desert (in what was, in my opinion, the greatest, most
exhilarating car chase ever).

On that note, actually, the incredible bike chase is just the tip of
the iceberg when it comes to the great action, but credit has to go to
director Christopher McQuarrie for excellently turning this into a
good-looking and intense action thriller, using great camera work
(avoiding shaky cam) to make it so brilliantly entertaining.

Away from the stunts, this film has still got a very good plot to it.
There are few blockbusters that couple great action and intelligent
storytelling nowadays, but this really bucks that trend, because it's
absolutely enthralling to follow from start to finish.

There are betrayals and deceptions galore in this spy thriller, as well
as a genuinely exciting climax, which is so unpredictable that it makes
you forget about the generic plots of the less successful films and be
properly engrossed in the current story.

Finally, this is also a very nice film to look at, thanks both to
McQuarrie's direction, as well as the beautiful sets and landscapes
that this is set in all over the world. 

From the mesmerising desert of Morocco to the foggy alleys of London,
this is a global journey that goes even further than the previous
films, and comes out with a stunning result, the best of the series in
my opinion!

www.themadmovieman.com
<|_=00=_|>
Me and a friend again had the opportunity to see an early screening of
the movie 'Mission: Impossible - Rogue Nation'. One word. Excellent.
Everything about that movie was just perfect! It had the right amount
of every element that would make a movie simply brilliant! This sequel
for me, was definitely the best Mission movie yet. And at the same time
it recalls so many details from the first mission impossible movie. And
most of all the action. WOW. Every action scene in this movie was
breath taking and there will be moments when you would just want to get
up and start clapping. They did a good amount of the stunts without CGI
and that will make you appreciate the action even more. Oh and if you
thought that plane scene in the trailer was crazy, then you are in for
a treat! When it comes to acting, Tom Cruise easily convinces us that
he is a top notch agent of IMF(Impossible Mission Force). This time
every member of the team has something to give in comparison to Ghost
Protocol. Kudos to Simon Pegg for his impeccable timing for humor. And
the villain was perfect! They made the villain perfect for the IMF and
the ending of this movie is so satisfying. One of the few movies where
the ending just pleases you so much. On the whole, Don't miss this
movie!! Seriously.. Don't! It is a movie mean't to be watched by
everyone!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film on an IMAX screen and I'm glad I did. Although IMAX
cameras were not used in the filming, I think the larger screen creates
a more immersive experience and the sound was spectacular. But this
film would be great in any format.

"Mission Impossible: Rogue Nation" is one of the best action films I
have ever seen. The story is clever and action packed. The photography
is amazing and the music is fantastic.

Much has been made of the stunt work, especially that done by Tom
Cruise himself. It did not disappoint. And the action and chase
sequences are as exciting as any I have seen.

We can thank the writing for the well-defined and engaging characters.
Some Bond films have villains that are rather cartoonish, but in MI:RN
the danger feels real, helping to drive the suspense.

The female lead, Rebecca Ferguson, deserves special mention. Her
portrayal of Ilsa Faust is a wonderful blend of intelligence, beauty
and strength and definitely one of the best in any action film. I can
only hope she shows up in the next installment. some of the credit goes
to the writers who created the character.

In all, this film offers everything you want in an action film and
deserves a "10" for its place in the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a fan of Tom Cruise and really like the last movie in the franchise
but I couldn't get over the feeling that I'd seen it all before. Every
hair raising stunt, every corner Ethan Hunt is backed into you just
know he's going to win. The movie itself was good but for me it seemed
a little stale. The action sequences were huge and impressive but it
just seems that Hunt is indestructible. He can ride one of the fastest
super-bikes in the world and crash without a helmet and the guy doesn't
even get a gravel rash! I know other people are loving it so don't let
my lack of enthusiasm put you off going to the cinema to see it. It's
certainly worth the ticked price.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the Mission Impossible format: Intro. Tom Cruise in the middle
of a mission in some far away country fighting bad guys while doing
unbelievable physical feats. 2. Tom Cruise receives a new mission he
always accepts, 3. He then gets attacked by bad guys or framed by the
organization who wants to destroy the world, 4. He meets hot
interracial girl who always tries to kill him but he ends falling in
love for her, 5. He sets up a team to find out the bad guy and usually
to get what bad guy needs, 6. He trespasses some impossible place were
humans cannot access and finds a way to get what the bad guy wants. 6.
He finds bad guy with what he needs and never gives it to him and gets
tortured in exchange(he can also get tortured at the beginning mission
too). 7. He beats bad guy. 8. Team is happy and end of story.

Facts Tom Cruise never dies and never gets badly injured. He always
disables self destructing devices at the last millisecond. He is a
genius who can crack any code, memorize anything and figure out any
puzzle. He never rides motorcycles with a helmet. At least once in
every MI movie he disguises as the bad guy or semi-bad guy.
<|_=00=_|>
TL;DR: Visually stunning, action filled and down to earth action
sequences (no over the top BS). Storyline with nice twists and pretty
good for an action movie, though watching Ghost Protocol helps getting
to know the IMF crew (there's no introduction this time around).

**spoiler-free**

Rogue Nation, like the latest movies in the franchise and others in the
spy/action genre, starts with a small crew, with little support,
against huge odds, having to deal with challenges that seem impossible
(no pun intended). 

What makes Rogue Nation better than most is that it makes it all
plausible without super-human characters, crazy gizmos (except one that
I shaw not mention, but it is not overused like in M:I II), and
brilliantly made down-to-earth action sequences. The latest 007 movies
are following the same ideals, but M:I has made a solid choice of
supporting actors (specially Simon Pegg) that add a subtle layer of
comedy and improvisation, which helps a lot into building some suspense
in the audience - it feels like as if they are as clueless as we are of
what is going to happen.

Another great aspect that sets this moving apart are the terrific
action sequences which are paired with outstanding sound effects and
music score (without spoiling, there is an entire action sequence that
plays with this very aspect). Was lucky enough to watch a pre-screening
on IMAX, and strongly recommend watching it on IMAX or a theater with a
good audio setup. 

The storyline, while not hard to follow, benefits from having watched
at least Ghost Protocol, since key characters are back and lack some
introduction, and the story somewhat picks from what took place in the
last instance. Much like Ghost Protocol, the storyline packs some
interesting twists and doesn't seem obvious - even though we all know
that the good guys win, Rogue Nation adds some shady characters which
are not as black and white, making for some interesting development.

Overall a highly entertaining movie, packed with stunning action
sequences and a storyline that is well thought-out and manages to keep
the audience hooked until the end. A solid addition to the franchise
that keeps one-upping itself on every new release.
<|_=00=_|>
Even two hours won't be enough for "Mission: Impossible - Rogue
Nation'" to be able to unravel all its exhilaratingly high-octane
action and drama. This fifth installment in the franchise surges with
death-defying action proceedings, riveting and pulsing with the
relentlessness and explosiveness of its spiking adrenaline, to deliver
the franchise's most thrilling outing, yet.

That relentlessness is true and screaming right at the opening sequence
of the film, where IMF agent, Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise), is seen dangling
from the door of an airbus, already adrift in the air as it ascends
even further to the skies. That's the first of too many, and you
wouldn't care less of the logic behind such impossible knockout stunt
demonstrations, because once the momentum crashes past the
speedometer's limit, there's no other choice left but to get consumed
by the electrifying influx of near-impossible action setpieces. This
doesn't mean there's barely any sense to take in, in fact you would be
awed to realize that in spite of its speed and strength-defying
physicalities, characterizations are still working along the explosive
chaos, and the behavior of the characters, and the emotional aspect of
the narrative, still follows acceptable reasoning.

The whole of 'Rogue Nation' can be seen as Hunt's team desperate
attempt to keep IMF running, and save it, and the world it intends to
protect, from extinction. This time, the major figure of terror, is the
mysterious organization, 'The Syndicate', headed by the despicably
steel-fisted Solomon Lane (Sean Harris) . Ethan is joined by co-IMF
agent, William Brandt (Jeremmy Renner), and suspicious British agent,
Ilsa Faust (Rebecca Ferguson). The comic effort comes mostly from
Hunt's sidekick, Benji (Simon Pegg), and Brandt, who spends most of the
time running and chasing after the shadow-terrorist group, The
Syndicate.

Much of the movie's strength emanates from its seemingly unstoppable
delivery of edge-of-your-seat action, but you can't ignore the grandeur
of its camera shots and the palatable efforts of its lead characters
and supports. There's much to say about how inconsistent and illogical
some of the narrative choices that the screenwritersn took are, but
they get overshadowed by the more relevant, and on this case, more
effectively utilized, high-tension action extravaganza.

One can inevitably notice how Cruise has aged through the franchise's
almost two-decade history. He's more tired-looking here, but you can't
question his commitment to the franchise. In 'Rogue Nation', he's
definitely back, running after, and wrestling against, the equally
desperate claws of 'The Syndicate'. He hops across the world to trump
the enemy, and in every city, he inevitably gets himself involved in
deadly strangulations. At such moments, cinematography is top notch,
and the breathtaking panorama becomes an exquisite backdrop for the
ever-imminent rumbles. This is where this installment is strongest and
most engaging, a strength that should warrant a sixth outing.
<|_=00=_|>
Almost a masterpiece.

It contains everything you love about the movies. Suspense, mystery,
drama, intelligent action & plot.

I did not expect the experience I got. A start to finish thrill ride
which also contained intelligent characters & plot. Christopher
McQuarrie has crafted a superb movie which moves at a fast pace but
also slows down when it has to for some intelligent character
interaction.

Tom Cruise gives one of his best performances & is in almost the entire
movie. The rest of the cast are all great. Rebecca Ferguson is a strong
character & female equivalent of Ethan Hunt.

Ving Rhames, Simon Pegg, Jeremy Renner & Alec Baldwin all give great
performances & have about the same screen time.

The villains lead by Sean Harris are effective & chilling & also a
little mysterious.

Music is superb with many subtle bursts of the MI theme. The film does
not contain hardly any CGI its nearly all practical real stunt FX.

Overall it just works from start to finish & Christopher McQuarrie has
created a superb film experience which does not fail to entertain &
deserves repeat viewings to enjoy the experience again & again.

This mission should you chose to accept it is to enjoy the movie &
watch it at least once more at the cinema the way its intended to be
seen on a massive screen with loud sound.
