
Most famous actors rely heavily on the production team during their
directorial debuts and aren't very involved in the directing process.
Last year, Angelina Jolie truly proved this with her movie Unbroken
(actually her second film as a director though). A high budget WW2 film
that Jolie clearly didn't put much effort into. It feels like the whole
idea was just given to her when she called her agent and stated that
she would like to direct a new movie. It is also not uncommon to see
actors casting themselves in their directorial debuts, such as Zach
Braff in Garden State. Lost River, is the weirdest directorial debut
you'll ever see from an actor.

I've always liked Ryan Gosling. He picks his movies carefully and works
great with "different" directors like Nicolas Winding Refn and Derek
Cianfrance. Lost River is probably the strangest film in recent years.
It is hard to explain what it is about so I'm not going to talk about
that in this review.

The movie is very similar to most David Lynch films, especially
Mulholland Drive. Therefore, one of the best things about Lost River is
actually the cinematography, it helps to create the mysterious
experience. I'm a very big fan of thrillers which don't explain
everything to the viewer, but I know most people aren't. And that's why
many will dislike this movie for what it is. With that being said, if
you hate to re-watch films and want simple story lines, Lost River is
not what you should be watching.

I really appreciate all the effort Ryan Gosling has put into this
movie. It is risky to make a film like Lost River these days, and I'm
glad Gosling was willing to take that risk to show his trademark. It is
notable that he actually made the movie himself and didn't rely on the
producers. Fans of David Lynch, Nicolas Winding Refn and David
Cronenberg will surely have a good time with Lost River. I'm looking
forward to Gosling's next feature, and can't wait to re-watch this
film.
<|_=00=_|>
Straight off the bat, I am somewhat surprised about the overwhelmingly
bad ratings this film received, and no, I won't go down the route of
claiming that people "don't understand art". The more I explore art
house, the more I realise it is all about preference - not everyone
likes reading into films too much, and a particular style may not be
appealing to everyone. In 'Lost River', Gosling clearly combines
different styles of directors he worked with recently - I definitely
recognised influences from Derek Cianfrance and Nicolas Winding Refn in
terms of character interaction, cinematography and of course the
gorgeously atmospheric soundtrack. Apart from being a learning curve
for Ryan Gosling, 'Lost River' is an impressive directorial debut in a
lot of aspects.

One of the successful aspects is the overall plot surrounding these
strangely intriguing characters, including a family with somewhat
typical problems and a protagonist teenager son, along with a love
interest played by Saoirse Ronan (who also played the cute Agatha in
'The Grand Budapest Hotel') as well as the haunting presence of a
"bully" portrayed disturbingly well by Matt Smith. There's also a side
plot involving the troubled mother struggling to maintain her house and
family through a dodgy job and a delusional boss. To put it straight,
there is a lot happening in this film, yet, it doesn't feel at all
overwhelming. It was obvious that Gosling went into this project with a
lot of things he wanted to explore, however on the larger thematic
scale it seems subtle, at times focusing on style over content with its
beautifully composed shots accompanied by an enchanting score
reminiscent of Winding Refn.

On the negative side of things, the character interaction feels
slightly unrealistic at some points, and overall originality is barely
visible. However, "originality" isn't entirely necessary to create an
unsettling art house flick - Gosling succeeds in this and definitely
deserves praise, especially being his writing and directorial debut. To
conclude, 'Lost River' is a disturbingly enchanting addition to the
expanding genre of art house - undeniably deserving its spot not only
as an adapted experiment paying homage to great directors, but also as
a successful collaboration of under-appreciated talents.
<|_=00=_|>
Watched the trailer and was mesmerized by some of the imagery that Ryan
Gosling has managed to capture.

Then I watched the film itself.

It felt like i was watching the extended version of the trailer, small
snippets of dialogue surrounded by vast dreamlike imagery but with no
actual story to go with it.

This film isn't bad its just that it's not very good either. I felt
like i was left wanting a little bit more, that it hadn't really
fulfilled my appetite.

That said there is potential and because Gosling is just so damned cool
I will be looking forward to the next step (Fan boy mode deactivated).
<|_=00=_|>
Ryan Gosling's first rodeo at the Writer/Director's chair was
something. The dramatic mystery-fantasy ride that Gosling is taking us
on is enchanting but also disturbing. 

Lost River first looks like a documentary or an old film but it gets
weird real fast. The documentary aspect of it comes from the debt
crisis theme the movie has, people choking with debts leaving their
homes, deserted neighborhoods and ghost towns but the film goes from a
very grounded theme into a phantasmagorical world filled with
disturbing dark metaphors with violent and/or dodgy characters.

The music is hypnotic and fits the surrealism atmosphere of the film
but it gets annoying real fast. Although it mostly fits the movie,
there's almost too much of it, the music is not really helping in the
cinematic experience of Lost River.

No matter how you may feel about the movie you can't deny that it's
beautifully acted. Ryan Gosling knows how to pick his cast but the one
I was most surprised about, was Iain De Caestecker, whose presence and
performance was electric. Iain is impressive, from the second he
appears on screen everything you need to know about his character is
there, you can read it on his face, his attitude and hear it in his
voice. He held his own next to Hendricks and Ronan, as it turns out he
is incredibly talented.

I know Lost River must be - is - a metaphor but god I need help to
figure it out. I may not be doing enough drugs to understand that film
or I haven't experience enough of life but it was difficult for me to
decipher. A short version of the film would have been fine, great even,
but a full feature film, wow that's something.

Lost River is an experience, like any ride in an amusement park it will
leave its mark but it doesn't mean that you'll enjoy it. @wornoutspines
<|_=00=_|>
Charting the career of Ryan Gosling has been like examining the
exploits of a half-crazed explorer who, after conquering the seven
continents, decided to wander out into the great white wastes on the
map where there be dragons. After a meteoric rise in popularity with
films like The Notebook and critical adoration in Half Nelson, he
decided to eschew the mainstream heartthrob role and take on parts that
were more off the beaten path. First came Lars and the Real Girl. Then
came his laconic-but-instantly-iconic role in future best bud Nicolas
Winding Refn's Drive. Just when he seemed ready to zig back to
mainstream adoration, he zaggedby taking a seat in the director's
chair himself. 

And so we have Lost River, a film that could pretty much be considered
the neon-bathed blood child of Santa Sangre and Beasts of the Southern
Wild. When the film premiered at Cannes last year, it was met with
resounding criticism (not unlike the previous Gosling film to debut
there, Refn's Bangkok-set Only God Forgives). Yet if something elicits
that level of vitriol, that means it at least must be seen. 

In truth, the film is borne out of Gosling's influences, which he wears
on his sleeve quite garishly. There's a little Lynch, there's a little
more of Refn, there's even some Gaspar Noe and Derek Cianfrance
peppered throughout the place. It makes for a bizarre and unsettling
mulligan stew that might behell, probably isa touch radioactive. 

Nevertheless, there's something beautiful about Lost River, which at
its core feels like an American folk tale given a 21st-century jolt.
Set in the dying titular town that may or may not be a Detroit
analogue, a single mother named Billy (Christina Hendricks) desperately
tries to keep herself and her two sons afloat, even as the mortgage
payments fall behind and her home is about to be repossessed. Billy, a
waitress by trade, can't make ends meet . . . until, that is, she is
met with a proposition by her bank manager (Ben Mendelsohn, skeevy as
usual despite gussying up in a suit and tie this time) to take a job at
a nightclub that specializes in the freaky-erotic. 

Meanwhile, her elder son Bones (Iain De Caestecker, who comes off as a
younger clone of Gosling here, right down to the brooding silence)
recognizes the dire straits they're in and pitches in by stripping
dilapidated ruins for copper wire, only to cross paths with a
strutting, skinheaded psycho named Bully (Matt Smith of Doctor Who
fame). When he's not trying to keep out of Bully's line of sight, Bones
cares for his baby brother Frankie while at the same time making eyes
at his neighbor, a pretty girl with the unlikely name of Rat (Saoirse
Ronan). Through her, Bones learns of the mythology of Lost River, and
how there may be a monster lurking in its watery underbelly. Gosling
has kickstarted two stories here, and while both exist in the same
milieu, they are nevertheless wildly divergent. 

And that, part and parcel, is the biggest flaw of Lost River. Kubrick
once said that a director is a taste machine, sifting through various
ideas and seeing which ones work the best. Gosling is a cinematic
gourmand, devouring his influences with relish and spewing them out
with gusto. Unfortunately, he probably ought to have limited himself to
one course instead of two. 

The Bones subplot, while boasting some truly gorgeous imagery (you
really can't beat Benoît Debie's Korine-esque cinematography), feels
vacuous. I think a large part of it is that, despite Ronan and Smith
giving it their all and both crafting unique characters and giving bold
performances, that young De Caestecker just doesn't have the necessary
screen presence to hold our attention for long . . . and, quite
frankly, I feel that Gosling himself wasn't terribly interested in this
particular plot of the film. He knows enough to give it some pep in
certain scenes, but whenever the film switches over to Billy's
perspective, everything galvanizes, and we know where Gosling's heart
is. 

And it's easy to see why: this is where Gosling is allowed to drop plot
and let image and atmosphere take hold. When Billy joins the act, she
meets a beautiful burlesque dancer (Eva Mendes) who is something of her
Charon into the dark world this nightclub represents. And what it
represents is a sick fascination with death, blood, deformity. When we
first see Mendes's character, bathed gloriously in violet, she brings
to mind the creepy ceremony from Jodorowsky's Santa Sangre, and when
Billy allows herself to be part of the show itself by encasing herself
in a clear plastic woman's outline, Gosling's crazed creepiness hits
Lynchian levels of inspiration. It doesn't hurt that Mendelsohn, who
feels like a love child of Dennis Hopper and Dean Stockwell's
characters in Blue Velvet, gets to channel both those guys in these
scenes (in one instance, he croons a Hank Williams tune while oozing
menace). 

For a debut, Lost River definitely shows a great bit of promise for a
fledgling director. Gosling's biggest challenge now is refining his
technique, paring down his influences and finding an original bent to
take. There is a unique voice in there somewhere, buried under all the
homages. And while Lost River feels aimless, it's still hypnotic.
<|_=00=_|>
Warner Brothers is one of the best movie studios in the business.
Putting out controversial movies such as, A Clockwork Orange, Natural
Born Killers & One Eight Seven, it's clear that this is a studio that
likes to takes risks with films. They prove it yet again with the
directorial debut of Hollywood heartthrob, Ryan Gosling's art house
flick, Lost River. I'll start by saying this about the film; it is
absolutely gorgeous to look at. Gosling has an eye for camera placement
and style, taking a page out of the David Lynch School of directing.
Unfortunately that's where the praise stops, as this is one boring and
rather pointless movie. The story centers on a single mom played by
Christina Hendricks, (Mad Men) who lives in a virtually abandoned city
of Lost River, with her two kids, one of which has run afoul of the
local gangster played by Matt Smith. (Dr. Who) A Gangster so mean that
it's widely know throughout the community his love for cutting off
peoples lips who cross him. In the end it's clear that Gosling wants to
shed his pretty boy persona and come across as more intellectual and
thoughtful. Hopefully the next time he decides to get behind the camera
he has a better script to film.
<|_=00=_|>
I really wasn't sure about this to start with, but I rented it, so I
stuck with it to get my £3.99 worth. I am so glad I did. The pace is
slow to begin with, and it's hard to like any of the characters in the
beginning. But as it unfolds you become intrigued by the relationships
the characters have, and you see a part of yourself in each of them,
even if their plight is so different from ones own. The thing I found
so amazing about it was that every single shot was so well considered-
the composition and colour. It is reminiscent of David Lynch in places,
showing the darkness of human nature in such a beautifully shot way. It
really was like a moving painting. This film should not be compared to
other films of this genre. The film making was very mature and
considered, and I truly view this as a work of art. I liked how in
parts, the acting was very raw, like watching a documentary rather than
a 'movie'. And I am not sure what it has left me with- Sometimes when I
watch a film, I want to know more about the characters and what becomes
of them when the credits roll. I didn't want to know more. I was
content with having seen the journey they made and where we left them.
I was very cynical, 'a Hollywood star steps behind the camera' - we
have heard it before. But if this was his debut film as a director,
then I think there are amazing things to follow and he should stay
behind the camera.
<|_=00=_|>
Few indie films of late have more effectively captured the inescapable,
haunting truth of urban decay in a narrative capacity the way 'Lost
River' does. We may hear about it in the news, or occasionally see
glimpses of it via online write-ups but are we really getting the whole
story? Still, Lost River's eerie tale of a young man and his mother's
desperate attempt to hold onto their rapidly decaying home gets under
your skin. It's not the kind of story everyone will enjoy, some frankly
won't have the stomach for it. Despite it sporting a supremely well
written and directed script by Ryan Gosling - with visuals and
cinematography that are breathtaking, hypnotic and cryptically
gorgeous. The fact that corporate greed is literally wiping out entire
towns across the United States is a reality some are just not going to
be interested in, but that might be this film's central conceit.

The American Dream is slowly but surely turning into a sad, and
devolved nightmare - governed by 'dark subcultures' which seem to be
gaining momentum while murder, mass genocide, chaos and destruction
continue to reign supreme. This is what's at the twisted heart of 'Lost
River.' It also beautifully pays homage to Argento, Bava, Lynch,
Tarkovsky and more. Some might feel inclined to make accusations that
name actors like Barbara Steele are grossly underused. That may or may
not be true, but I'd wager those folks are missing the point. If you're
looking for a supremely bizarre, heady, visually striking foray into
what some folks will do to hold onto their own little status-quos then
this film is not to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
The plot seems centered around a mom with two kids trying to hold on to
their home in a virtually deserted part of town. She's months behind in
mortgage payments. She takes a job at this weird club to earn money to
pay the mortgage. Everything else in the movie seems designed to
complement that idea: her oldest son scavenges copper from abandoned
homes for money to buy car parts so he can fix his car and leave for
who knows where; a neighbor girl who speaks of a curse on the city that
can only be undone by dredging up something from part of the city under
water; a vicious hoodlum type that thinks he's lord and master over
this deserted part of town. These elements ARE connected but not very
well.

I got from the main characters a sense of helplessness, a sense of
hopelessness and desperation. It wasn't spectacular but there was some
interesting photography.

By the end I was scratching my head wondering how to makes sense of
what I saw. I'm not sure it makes sense.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a beautiful metaphor, a dark fairy tale where a
mythological hero needs to break the spell to save a society in
decadence. The setting is a city in decay ruled by evil and violence
(if you love abandoned places and urban exploration you will love this
movie). The soundtrack is a piece of art. The moment where the young
lovers dance in an abandoned building is one of the most beautiful
shots I have seen lately. The lovers need to fight to find hope in a
place where society is in decay and people are trapped by sadness. The
lake is a metaphor of the past, under the water lives the lost world,
the things that we lost, the past that is still haunting us. I was a
bit skeptical about Ryan Gosling's debut as a director, but I must say
that he has surprised me. You need to watch this movie as it is, a
fairy tale and a metaphor of today's decadent society.
