
I am completely surprised at some of the low ratings and remarks
concerning this movie. My daughter and I just watched it. I hate
horrors because I have nightmares all night long after watching one. I
stick to the suspense and thrillers. I had reservations about this
movie after reading the makers of this also made paranormal activity
which I watched and found utterly cheesy. Just my own personal opinion.
But this movie I really enjoyed. It kept me on the edge of my seat with
my hands at the ready to slap across my eyes. I love a well made alien
encounter movie and this movie did it for me. Lots of jumping moments,
lots of edge of the seat suspense. I did not walk away feeling like I
should have spent my money on something else!
<|_=00=_|>
Can a science fiction film be given the horror treatment? This isn't
something new, like The Fourth Kind, but unlike that film, this one is
truly terrifying, especially when you least expect it to be. Granted
its credits never fail to remind you that the producers here were also
behind Paranormal Activity and Insidious, but look hard for that ghoul
set to spook, and you'll never find it. Instead it deals with alien
abduction, and boy, has it never been delivered this good, and scary.

Written and directed by Scott Stewart, this is a definite improvement
from his earlier efforts with Legion and Priest. Dark Skies lulls you
into some complacency, introducing the audience to the Barrett family,
who may seem like the typical all American one living in the suburbs,
where dad Daniel (Josh Hamilton) is in between jobs, and mom Lacy (Keri
Russell) supports the household for the time being as a realtor to keep
the mounting bills at bay. Sons Jesse (Dakota Goyo) and Sam (Kadan
Rockett) are the typical teenager and toddler growing up, with a little
bit more focus on the former as he hangs out with relative geek
company, and is on his first romantic brush with the daughter of his
mom's best friend.

Then things start to go all strange, and at times begin to feel like
Paranormal Activity in treatment for just a bit. Lacy finds herself
inexplicably waking up in the middle of the night to encounter things
like having her fridge raided by someone unknown, or seeing her kitchen
wares and containers stacked in a geometric pattern. These are the more
benign encounters, until flocks of migrating birds start to violently
converge at their house, and each family member start to behave as if
possessed, losing track of time, and being subconsciously unaware
during their awake hours. Worse, they also seem to bear the marks of
physical harm, and it's not long after that CCTV cameras got placed
around the house.

But no, we're not given any found footage treatment or first person
perspective, because that would be pushing the envelope of familiarity.
Instead, Dark Skies relies on good old fashioned storytelling, with a
fair bit of conventional devices, techniques and styles to amplify key
moments in the narrative that will make you cringe at your seat, or be
tightly grabbing onto that armrest when Stewart deftly builds suspense.
The horror imagery got strongly built into carefully crafted scenes,
which made this many times more effective than the average horror film
that had blood, gore and makeup as part of its arsenal, something
conspicuously absent in Dark Skies, but demonstrating that it could do
a lot more with less.

The narrative was kept simple enough to revolve only around a handful
of characters, and firmly around the family that allows it to be easily
identifiable under a What If scenario, while building one's affiliation
with them as they seem nice enough not to be suffering under such
inexplicable terms. But what worked wonders here are the technical
aspects, from its steady cinematography which is minus all the
trappings of badly formed habits that would have made this a blur to
follow, and solid editing that instills fear especially when
transitioning between lost time. What stood out will be the brilliant
sound design of course, adding that layer to bring that shiver down
your spine. Watching this with the volume turned off would have
neutered the film, and that's testament to how important, and effective
this aspect was to the movie.

The finale is set to ruff a few feathers, although it may be a stretch
to suggest that there would be doors left open for a follow up film.
The cast delivered top performances, augmented by technical competency
to make this the perfect blend of science fiction with horror
sensibilities that puts many contemporary horror films of late to
shame. A definite recommendation if you're looking for that
heart-thumping thrill ride that's lacking in recent times for the genre
fans.
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe I had too high of hopes for this. I never, well I try to avoid
watching the TV ads and I don't make a habit of watching trailers.
Nonetheless I had a pretty good notion of what this film was about and
I had really thought maybe this was going to deliver something new that
I hadn't seen before. The story was interesting enough for a decent
viewing experience & it did have some good frightening scenes spread
thinly throughout. Overall it was mainly a psychological thriller and
was hardly a horror film, so if you're thinking you're going to be in
for any kind of brilliant sci-fi visual experience you won't get much
more than very thin "shades" of the most commonly used interpretations
of what an alien being looks like. Also don't expect any visual horror
scenes because there is little more than a bit of head banging. With a
budget of $3.5 million the film relied heavily on story & acting, but
laid off on the CGI. Overall it's cast did a fine job & it's production
value was as good as any other Hollywood film. While I believe it will
hold peoples attention, I doubt many people will be walking out of the
theater saying wow or OMG brilliant! The plot was very similar to many
other alien abduction films, which made it somewhat predictable right
down to the final scene, which contained little more than a very very
slight turn of events. Should you run to the theaters or otherwise to
see this film, no, but it's still a pretty good watch and do recommend
seeing it at your convenience, it's a solid 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Being a fan of supernatural, science fiction movies such as Fire In The
Sky, The Forgotten, Close Encounters Of The Third Kind, Knowing, The
Arrival, Contact, Night Skies etcetera I had high hopes for Dark Skies.
The result was a better than average genre mash up that borrows
elements from the best including my all time favorite horror film
Poltergeist. The story was gripping that involves a suburban family
that we instantly relate to and care about, making the chilling events
that follow effective and downright surreal. The film takes an
old-school approach when it comes to developing the story and
characters and delivering the frights, which might be too much of a
slow burn for fans of fast paced horror flicks. I happen to like how
the film took its time delivering the details and made it a suspenseful
and mind boggling watch even if it raises more questions than answers.
In real life though, there is events out there that were can't explain
or have answers for, which makes this quote even the more true that
showed at the beginning of this film: "Two possibilities exist: either
we are alone in the Universe, or we are not. Both are equally
terrifying." Â— Arthur C. Clarke 

The performances hit it home for me even though it wasn't always as
emotionally powerful as it should have been. Keri Russell isn't in
enough movies as she should be, but when she does make a movie her
performances are always genuine and for surprisingly her horror film,
this role fits like a glove and gives a raw and layered performance.
Keri plays wife and mother of two boys Lacy Barrett, who is a
struggling realtor trying to make ends meet while her husband Daniel
Barrett played effortlessly by Josh Hamilton, tries desperately to find
a better job to support their family. Right away their peaceful
suburban life is turned upside down when they become under attack by
strange supernatural forces. The child stars of this film were also
impressive. Dakota Goyo and Kadan Rockett give natural and unflinching
performances as the sons Jesse Barrett and Sam Barrett, who are just as
confused and terrified of the strange events as their parents, but also
show their own coming of age story on the side. J.K. Simmons gives a
standout performance as Edwin Pollard, a man that the parents turn to
for help as he knows exactly what they are going through, for he has
dealt with the presence for some time. His role could of gone on the
silly side but it was handled with such seriousness that you to will be
on the edge of your seat with his accusations.

Director and writer, Scott Stewart delivers a nice change of pace and
more of a restraint here compared to his other films Legion, which I
was one of the few that actually enjoyed it and Priest, which I haven't
seen yet but want to soon. This type of style seems to be more of his
niche and has a more plausible approach even if he doesn't have answers
for but that's fine because in real life we don't as well. I like that
he went with mood, suspense, characters and story over cheap scares,
over use of CGI and gore which makes the film have an old-school vibe
which brought me back to horror movies of the past like Poltergeist
mixed with The X-Files, Close Encounters Of The Third Kind and Signs
for instance. The Fact that he waits until the end to reveal the creepy
beings make you sit in constant suspense, even though they could of
done a much better job with their digital appearance and gone with more
natural FX to make the reveal all the more terrifyingly effective. It
could of been worse though so it was fine; the ending leaves you on a
cliffhanger and has possibilities of a sequel in the future that I'm
very intrigued by and hope they go through with one.

Overall, another horror movie out of left field that is way better than
what most critics make it out to be. It's a shame that not a whole lot
of people went to go see it, as it might be the more decent horror
films of the year, so far at least. If you like slow burn horror movies
with suspense, you will probably enjoy this but don't expect a whole
lot of action or scares just a slow building nightmare.
<|_=00=_|>
I came in to this movie not knowing it was anything but an 'Alien
movie.' I expected it to be some cheesy B-rated style thriller with
cheesy 'pop out at your face' moments, but was pleasantly surprised at
the quality of the movie.

The actors did a very nice job at their parts, and there were parts
where I was left dumbfounded at how the little kids did their parts so
well. (Trying not to give spoilers!)

The movie did a very nice job of leaving the viewer with a sense of
fear long after the movie had ended. when I walked out of the theater,
I, along with almost all of the other movie-goers, were slightly
shaking. As long as you are not too critical to minor details in the
movie, it was an excellent flick to give you a good sci-fi scare. I
will probably be taking a friend to see this movie in theaters soon.
<|_=00=_|>
An interesting ride would pretty much sum up my experience of this
film.

The director did a smart job in the beginning by introducing the
subject slowly and gradually in the sense that although we knew
something was not quite right with this suburban house, he did not rush
to bombard us with any massive amounts of visuals or gory scenes thus
leaving us both intrigued and in anticipation mode. That is a technique
not commonly used and achieving that takes skill.

Following that, the story runs smoothly as our characters go from
surprise, to shock, then disbelief and acceptance. Good choice of adult
and children actors, in combination to the gradual built up made this
an stimulating watch.

It was the climax that I found to be rather anticlimactic. Nothing
innovative, or even new. Whilst it never ceased to be thrilling, let's
be clear about that, somehow the overdoing of visuals and certain
ambiguities concerning the unfolding of the final moments left me
somewhat colder.

Still, it is a highly effective and watchable thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit i'm very surprised with this movie, also i'm surprised
that its getting low ratings, i guess crap like paranormal activity is
whats popular around... Anyway, this is by far the most scary movie in
the last 10 years, i could dare anyone to name another movie that can
deliver the scare in a better way than this?... yes there are a LOT of
clichÃ©s, but they are so well done, that it doesn't matter.. Also the
acting is simply TOP-notch, which adds so much to the plot... Im a big
fan of mashup genres, and this is a great mixture of sci-fi and horror,
it takes elements from many other movies, which is not a bad thing at
all... The ending leads (hopefully) to a sequel, i really think it
deserves one...
<|_=00=_|>
'DARK SKIES': Three Stars (Out of Five) 

A science fiction thriller about a family terrorized by an unknown
force which may be extraterrestrial in origin. It was written and
directed by Scott Stewart (who also helmed the sci-fi thrillers
'LEGION' and 'PRIEST'). It stars Keri Russell, Josh Hamilton, J.K.
Simmons, Dakota Goyo (of 'REAL STEEL' fame) and Kadan Rockett. The
movie is a routine suspense thriller/horror film but it does have some
good scares and creepy imagery.

The film revolves around the Barrett family, who live in the suburbs,
struggling to get by while Mr. Barrett, Daniel (Hamilton), tries to
find work. Lacy Barrett is a real-estate agent who's struggling to sell
a house while her oldest son Jesse (Goyo) is discovering girls. Strange
occurrences begin happening in the families' home, involving food in
the kitchen, and what first looks like a possible intruder turns into
Daniel and Lacy questioning their youngest son Sam's (Rockett) mental
stability. Weirder things keep happening though and they soon begin
involving the other family members as well.

The movie is kind of slow-paced at times but it has enough good scares
throughout to keep it going. It's a little like a 'PARANORMAL ACTIVITY'
film except better (in my opinion). It also seems influenced by two
Spielberg flicks; 'CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND' and
'POLTERGEIST'. 'POLTERGEIST' is one of my all time favorite movies in
this genre and to say a film resembles it at all is quite a compliment.
This film isn't nearly as creative, fun or memorable but it does work
as just a thriller. Not a great scary movie but a little better than
average.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PKhLjf_1MKw
<|_=00=_|>
Not knowing exactly what we were in for, having seen only a trailer or
two, we were very pleasantly surprised. The last "alien" movie we went
to was "Signs", which really soured our opinion of these types of
movies. We are interested in the phenomenon and this movie actually
handled the subject quite well. For those of us with an interest in the
field, it was very believable and it was written well. The pace of the
movie made it seem over too quickly - I was ready for more! I left the
theater feeling pretty stressed, partly because of the suspense and
partly because the characters made their struggle so believable. I
would highly recommend this movie to anyone with an open mind. My
husband is a much better film critic than I, and he really liked it
too, which is interesting because he is typically drawn to movies with
a fantasy component or a lot of computer-generated scenes. Again,
having an interest in the phenomenon ourselves, this movie made it very
real for us.
<|_=00=_|>
This really was the best alien-movie i have ever seen. There was lot of
things happening throughout the whole movie, and i never got bored. It
also feature a few surprises which at least i could not see coming, and
the ending came totally out of the blue.

I would recommend this movie to anybody looking for a good and
entertaining movie, which will send numerous chills down their spines.
But i do think that even the most serious watchers of movies about
alien invasions and such (not talking Will Smith now), will find this
film quite entertaining.

It puts stuff in your mind you probably will want to get rid of as soon
as possible, and it definitely gives pictures to the worst nightmare
that could happen to parents.
