
Cringe-worthy mistakes. If it was just a little worse it would be
funny. Instead -just embarrassing to watch. 

Before we start - check out the 10/10 IMDb user review. Clearly written
by a production member. Easy guess I reckon. Hilarious. Yes. And
delusional.

Anyway, back to the task;

>The family start out feeling alien and uncomfortable in this rough,
dry, remote central desert town. Later in the movie you learn they came
FROM THE NEXT TOWN! The dad drives back there to see the old school
teacher. Really? They found the next town that weird compared to the
nearest town??

>It's a 40 degree summer they tell us. But nobody has sweat marks on
their clothes even in the desert scenes. (BTW - everyone is always
dressed in fresh crisp clothing, straight out of the packet. Unless
they have neatly painted-on dust) Everyone looks cool as a cucumber.
The little boy even wakes up in the middle of the night under a DOONA
with goose bumps! Was this movie shot in winter?

> Solution - add a loud cicada sound effect. Oops first attempt and
they used crickets instead - which chirp at night. But Nicole wakes up
to them... At least they used the cicada effect for the rest of the
movie. Crazy thought - if its a movie set in the brutal hot desert...
why not just shoot in summer? I guess blame Nicole's schedule.

> At the start there is a fly-over of the desert town. Maybe 50 houses
spread out amongst salt bush and red sand. Looks like a modern mining
town in NT or WA. Miracle! Later in the movie, the main street is
something out of NSW or VIC built in the 1880's -with enough shops to
look after 20,000.

>And the pub has lush green overgrown grass next to it... in a Central
Desert town, in 40 degrees... And the family house, late in the movie,
has big thick forest in the distance. Looks like outer Melbourne. Where
did the central desert go?

> The kid has severe burns all over his face... so Nicole runs into the
hospital room and grabs HIS FACE in her hands... Thanks mum.

> Both Nic and Joe get hit by the dust storm. But later in the day at
the house - Joe is all showered in clean clothes but Nic is still
looking like something the cat dragged in. 

> Hugo Weaving: "I'll see myself out". Umm Hugo - you are standing next
to the door.

>Nicole hugs the little boy and says something like "Ohh darling you're
home" then three seconds later screams at him to talk. Emotional light
switch.

>Speaking of 3 seconds. There is an uncut shot of a full sex scene with
Nic and Jo that was about 23 seconds long. One cut or two cuts and we
could have believed it was a longer scene. Instead, we see ridiculous
flacid-to-champagne corks.. in 23 seconds.

> Umm what scene comes next? Director shuffles deck of 4 cards and
says: "Ohh... I pulled out the card that says "desert sunset shot". No
wait we've done that 5 times already. New card; it says "someone knocks
on the front door. Door ripped open in apprehension". As long as that
doesn't happen more than 10 times in the film i think it can work
again. No wait - we haven't shown that same flyover of Kings Canyon for
a while... 4th time lucky. In between, just show the dad getting angry.
Or Nicole trying to have sex with people for no reason or people trying
to have random sex with her, for no obvious reason either.

SPOILER > Plot fail: The whole grandmother scene outside the super
market about "please, please, did... did "the land" take her?" is
entirely emotionally redundant to the audience. We know "the land"
didn't do it - we just got told she got in a car! Did anyone in
production actually see the movie before it was released?

SPOILER > Plot. So umm all the picnic-at-hanging-rock inspired Kings
Canyon shots playing with the plot idea "the land" took her, or the
"dad abused her" hints, or the "mum abused her" hints, or the "tattoo
kids" took her, or the brain-damaged worker got her... all those
potential plot lines got trashed/resolved with "she got in a car".
Seriously. that was it? Oh. OK. I guess that's it. 

>Joseph Feines is always concerned and angry. Always. Every scene. What
a journey. From C&A to C&A, via C&A. Get that guy (or the script) an
emotional gearbox, please. This movie had emotions: every actor got
one.

Let's not be too negative. 

There is one good thing in this train wreck: Maddison Brown. She plays
the daughter. Thrown into a $5 script, a $4 plot with $3 characters and
$2 continuity... she is $1 million dollars! She out-acts everyone.
Great screen presence. Shame she disappears so soon. The movie fell in
a heap once she was gone. 

Film makers in Australia should be issued with govt license before they
can say "I'm an Australian film maker". That brand is already deep in
the toilet. This just jams it further past the s-bend. 

It's a shame - it could have been good. Choose one plot line. Shoot it
in summer. Shoot it in a desert town. Move beyond people opening doors,
sunsets and gorge-flyovers... Let the characters have a range of
emotions and reasons for having them. A half decent movie is there,
deep inside this train wreck.

If I'm too harsh - blame the internet and don't take it personally.
Films are a team effort - everyone is to blame. And I'm just one
person, probably a ratbag. Besides, the lady next to me said she liked
it.
<|_=00=_|>
This Movie, on the surface had the potential to go somewhere and to be
intriguing, but just falls flat on it's face, becomes extremely stupid
in spots and drags horribly. Worst of all, it leaves you without an
ending.

It's one of those movies where the viewer is left to make up their own
ending. You are left with no satisfaction after sitting through slow
dragging torture.

I will give you the obvious ending that the movie's producers never
did. 

In the story, the missing girl had sex with her teacher but the
teachers wife never left him for his act of betrayal and pedophilia and
instead blamed the girl for seducing her husband. So, the teacher's
wife abducts, murders and buries the school girl in the outback.

This would have explained why the girls mother received the phone calls
where the women on the phone says, "your daughter's a whore". 

This, however, still doesn't work as and ending because there is no way
the teachers wife would have just randomly found the missing and her
bother wondering in the wilderness.

We are just left with; she got into a car and disappeared, I guess to
head of to the big city to become a professional whore?

My conclusion; this movie is just plain stupid and a BIG waste of
anyone's time.
<|_=00=_|>
After their free spirited, too mature for her age and nubile daughter
Lily (a walking Lolita clich√©) takes off with her brother into the
desert the already unstable marriage falls prey to resurfacing old
resentment. Nobody in the small sleepy outback town knows where she has
disappeared off too yet many seem to have had some involvement. As the
movie progresses we see the mother (Kidman) fall further in desperation
induced mental frailty while dad (Fiennes) holds her responsible for
their daughters 'adventures nature' so to speak. Although it starts off
well with what seems to be wholesome plot, either a mystery or a
psychological thriller, it lingers and resumes in exploring the
relationship between mainly the parents and the towns people. Some
over-dramatization doesn't do the plot any good and by the end it
leaves you hanging. It lacks a firm direction and goes on tangents
instead, many scenic shots, dramatic outburst and at last an
unsatisfactory ending. It is the indecisiveness that irritates. When
presenting a strong leading plot line it needs to be followed through,
at least partly. Fiennes and Kidman performance is impeccable despite
the failing script.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't listen to the people saying it doesn't make sense or it doesn't
have an ending or whatever. Look, this film isn't really for everyone,
because it's slow-paced and not a lot is happening all the time, but
certain things are undeniably great about this film, like the acting
and the cinematography and the soundtrack and the REALISM. This film
really surprised me in it that it's not at all "hollywoodized". It's
purely just real. It reveals human nature in a way that not a lot of
films do, as in, people are more complicated that we give them credit
for, and they act certain ways for a number of reasons that we just
won't know on the getgo. In the beginning of the film, you'll probably
find yourself annoyed with a lot of characters, but as you learn more
about them and realize that there's more to them than what you first
saw, you kind of feel bad for judging them. My only small nitpicks
about this film is that some scenes I wish they had long static shots
of the characters, like in Shame if you ever saw that film, because it
would've fit better than cutting between the faces of the people, but
other than that, this is a well made film. Don't go into this film with
any "pre-judgements", because it's likely not correct. All that I can
say is this is not an action packed film. It's not really a thriller.
It's not a fantastical plot. It's slow and steady and real.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at Sydney Film Festival. One of the worst movies I've ever
seen (and I see a lot!). I felt sorry for the actors - the script was
AWFUL. The direction, woeful. Holes all over the plot. The Director was
calling this a feminist movie - can't see that at all. Joseph Fiennes
had an Australian accent for the first scene and then reverted to his
normal English accent - lazy direction! Sex scenes that the audience
laughed out loud at. Awful. Director said it took 13 years to make this
movie. Sad. One of the finest Australian actors, Hugo Weaving, wasn't
even good in it. None of the main actors turned up for the Australian
premiere - no surprise there. I stayed for the Q&A after the film to
get some answers. The Director continued to talk it up without really
answering the questions. I'll never get those 2 hours of my life back!
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe that it wasn't obvious at the first reading that the
script was letting it down. Basic idiosyncratic transitions and poor
dialogue abounds. Hugo Weaving (something of a fixture in Australian
films) manages to make the best of his scenes, and gives a good
credible performance throughout. Nicol Kidman works wonders to give the
other credible performance. Mr Fiennes is miscast and struggles from
his first frame to his last, to even convince us that he belongs there
at all.

The rest of the great problem with this film is down to the appalling
direction. Basic character relationships are ignored, logic is ignored,
some the smaller roles seem to have been left to tag along by
themselves, dramatic tension is frequently killed in its infancy by
casual happenstance, and there are too many red rock dessert shots,
that look for all the world, like stock footage.

It no doubt made great headway as it stood the test of the template
during the funding process, as it was labeled a feminist story (it even
failed at that) it was to be directed by a woman, it was to be set
within a sand storm in country Australiana, and it even featured a
smattering of indigenous characters and folk law.

It's a shame that the piece could not have been saved by skillful work
shopping during the early stages of production, and good film making
throughout.
<|_=00=_|>
I love Nicole. One of the best of her time. She normally chose good
movies to be part of. Not this one, though. Can't understand what made
her accept being part of this...thing. It started out well, but soon
loses pace and logic. I couldn't see it thoroughly. Nothing happens.
Ridiculous scenes...even sex scenes. Strange and ridiculous. The
actors, couldn't deliver cause there's nothing to. A lot of scenes
should be cut off, cause they don't make any sense at all. And the end,
gosh, deplorable. Deplorable ending. I can't understand what's the
point of this movie? For what purpose was it made? And what about the
title? Strangerland?! My God! Awful!This movie could have been good.The
ambiance, the actors...what a waste of talent and of my time!
<|_=00=_|>
A middle age couple moves with their children to isolated outback town
called Naghtgara where children go missing routinely. The town exists
in a vacuum and it has no apparent reason for beginning. The family is
not happy with the new surrounding. It becomes evident that the couple
and family is highly dysfunctional.

The husband played by Joseph Fiennes is also inattentive and
uninterested in his attractive wife played by Nicole Kidman. Lilly, the
young teen daughter, is sexually provocative to point of making the
viewer uneasy. But why is she this way? Her brother is distant and
cold. But why is he this way? Slowly the desert heat builds and one can
begin to discover that family has secrets. The kids disappear during
huge dust storm and we begin unravel the whys to our questions. Great
acting all the way around and Hugo Weaving steals the show with his
rugged Australia outback cop portrayal. The cinematography was
excellent it conveys the harsh reality of the outback and small towns
anywhere. This is steeped symbolism and an ambiguous ending.
<|_=00=_|>
A film that for its entirety is crying out for a satisfying ending to
make all that has come to pass worthwhile, Strangerland fails at its
final hurdle and becomes a tale with huge potential that remains left
in the dusty plains of the outback wherein the stories mysteries lie.

Strangerland is most certainly a unique disappearance mystery, a
strange hybrid of domestic drama moulded into the intrigue of just what
happened to the two Parker children, last seen wandering off into the
great unknowns of outback Australia, but despite consistently
threatening to become a great addition to the recently mostly barren
Australian cinema classic handbook, Kim Farrant's film just can't gel
into something totally recommendable or overly memorable.

First time director Farrant does show glimpses of a filmmaking talent,
her images of the land and direction of some of her actors is of a high
order and Strangerland's tone is often nerve rackingly eerie and
there's an air of dread that permeates through most of film. From
Maddison Brown's performance as promiscuous teen Lili, the town of
Nathgari itself and the looming shadow of the barren landscape that
surrounds our characters mixed with Keefus Ciancia's atmospheric score,
all combine to give Strangerland a unique identity worthy of lead
Nicole Kidman's committed turn.

In the doldrums for some time now it's great to see Kidman showcase her
considerable talents once more with a layered turn as the conflicted
mother of the lost children Catherine Parker. Kidman's performance is
both brave and unflattering and she's a highlight of Strangerland's
ensemble. Ably supported by the evergreen Hugo Weaving as the local
detective, Kidman elevates the film despite the overplayed presence of
a distracting Joseph Fiennes who once again reminds us as to why his
been largely forgotten about since his appearance in Shakespeare in
Love. Young Australian performer Meyne Wyatt is also worthy of a
mention in his role as young Aboriginal local Burtie.

Strangerland has moments; it also sucks you into its mysterious centre
only to drop the bundle in the films last act. If Strangerland had in
fact had a better catch on its hook it could've quite easily become one
of, if not the Australian film of the year but as it stands it's going
to be remembered only for a timely reminder that Nicole Kidman can in
fact act and lead a film. A disappointing result for a film that just
might have been.

2 ¬Ω high quality skate parks out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
Trouble is stirred up in a stifling hot Australian desert town after
the two children of new arrivals Nicole Kidman and Joseph Fiennes go
missing...and everyone who came into contact with them becomes a
suspect in their disappearance. Well-acted study of stunted small town
lives, with Nicole Kidman particularly gripping as the sad, desperate
mother of the kids (a promiscuous teenage girl and her restless younger
brother). Some of the drama has a prickly edge, and the dialogue is
strong, however the supporting characters are not a terribly
interesting lot, while the simmering tempers in this dust bowl town are
not used to heighten the tension (director Kim Farrant treats it as
subtext, preferring to focus on the embattled married couple).
Repetitive aerial shots of the mountain terrain and surrounding desert
grow tiresome (arty yet unrevealing), but the complicated scenario is
enough of a draw for admirers of character studies. ** from ****
