
Hollywood has been running out of ideas for years  remakes, sequels,
prequels and reboots now seem to be the order of the day. What's hard
to imagine is why anyone thought a remake of Endless Love was necessary
in the first place. The 1981 film of the same name  based on a pulpy,
albeit well-regarded, novel by Scott Spencer  wasn't even that good to
begin with. At least that version of the story had the distinction of
starring a young, nubile Brooke Shields, not to mention a title song
that became more famous than the movie itself. This remake manages to
be both extremely bland and painfully melodramatic, bled of almost any
hint of controversy or genuine complexity and darkness.

Jade Butterfield (Gabriella Wilde) is the quintessential poor little
rich girl: a beautiful, blonde ice princess who has shut herself in
with her parents, Hugh (Bruce Greenwood) and Anne (Joely Richardson),
after the untimely death of her brother Chris. David (Alex Pettyfer) is
a kid from the poorer side of town who has nursed a crush on her
throughout high school. She's college-bound, he just wants to work in
his dad's (Robert Patrick) workshop. When they finally connect, sparks
fly and Jade starts to re-think the safe, perfect future she's planned
with Hugh.

It's all very cookie-cutter high-school romantic melodrama. Nothing
about this film feels particularly fresh or smart, although it does
start out a little better than you'd expect. But, after the initial
meet-cute between Jade and a thoroughly smitten David, Endless Love
quickly descends into trashy predictability: Hugh does everything
within his power to get rid of David, but the spark of love and lust
between the star-crossed couple burns so hot and bright that nothing
will stand in their way.

What's frustrating is that the film has almost completely excised
anything even remotely complex about its plot and characters. The 1981
movie may have been faintly terrible and soapy, but it at least made a
stab at psychological darkness, suggesting that the 'endless love' of
the title bordered more on creepy, damaging obsession than sweet,
romantic love. There's no such suggestion here: David is troubled but
ultimately noble; Jade is purely, truly in love; and it's the
curmudgeonly Hugh who must realise the errors of his ways.

The cast is watchable but not really memorable. Pettyfer broods as if
he knows he's meant for better things. Wilde is effortlessly, often
stunningly beautiful, but doesn't have much to offer beyond that.
Greenwood has the most scenery to chew  he practically twirls an
invisible moustache and cackles at some points  but it's Richardson
who walks away with the film's few affecting moments (even though her
character loses much of its shock value in morphing into the archetypal
loyal, loving housewife).

You would imagine that, in a cinematic landscape overrun by remakes,
these films would  at the minimum  have something interesting to say
about the times in which we live now. They can make a case for their
existence, perhaps, by being a little edgier than the original films:
explaining why there's a need to tell this old story again. Endless
Love doesn't really manage that. Instead, by forgoing depth and
darkness for schmaltz and sentiment, it ends up being even safer and
sweeter than a movie shot over thirty years ago.
<|_=00=_|>
Personally I actually liked this movie, regardless of the annoying
people sitting behind me laughing the entire movie and the people
sitting beside me who were crying the whole entire time for god knows
what reason. This movie was not a serious movie, but one of puppy love.
Its similar to movies such as The Last Song, Letters to Juliet, Dear
John, the Vow and the Lucky One. While these movies aren't all that
serious and have a lot of depth, they're a good light happy movie that
you'll walk away feeling happy from. I actually thought the acting was
very good, and the movie was actually pleasant, and something I would
definitely see again. I mean what do people expect when they go to
watch a movie called 'Endless Love', honestly of course its going to be
a cheesy love story about a girl and a guy falling in love. I mean
thats what the whole story is about, so if you don't like a good old
fashioned love story than this isn't for you. I will say that it is
more of a girls type of movie than a guys movie, but thats not to say
that a guy would not like it to. I rate this movie about a 7/10. It is
a good movie, not great, but it is a cute love story that was a good
pick for me and my girlfriends to see on valentines Day. Happy
Watching.
<|_=00=_|>
This is basically a good romantic movie. If you are hoping for more
depth, more story or more anything you will be disappointed. But for
what it was, I enjoyed it.

The acting was solid, I really liked Gabriella Wildes performance. She
was fresh faced and innocent. I was really not interested in Alex
Pettyfer's performance prior to watching it, but he proved me wrong and
was believable and you found yourself with a vested interest in their
relationship.

If you are after an escape into a good romantic movie, I think this one
is worth the effort...
<|_=00=_|>
Do you remember "Safe Haven"? Yeah, that soppy romantic drama last year
that ended with (SPOILER ALERT if anyone cares) Robin Scherbatsky's
character being a ghost that wanted her former husband to find true
love again.

Safe Haven is several times better than Endless Love, and I hated Safe
Haven.

Endless Love is a movie so mind-bogglingly inept, so blissfully
unaware, so morally empty, and so raucously confident that if it (God
forbid) took the form of a human being, you would alternately want to
weep for her, educate her, and bash in her skull with a bowling ball.
This movie takes place in a world that is structurally unsound and is
populated with aggressively stupid characters whose actions are
unjustifiably opposed to sound logic and good morals. 

Yes, Endless Love is a film aimed at a very particular target audience
with a very specific goal in mind, and therefore its flaws mean little
to the filmmakers or to the numerous squealing 13-15 year old girls at
my showing. However, that does not excuse it from following film rules
that, when broken, force a viewer out of the entertainment experience
and instead force them to put their head in their hands in disgust.

1. You need a strong lead character. Jade Butterfield is the opposite
of a strong lead character. She is a selfish, spoiled, and ignorant
17-year-old who falls head-over-heals for a stranger and then proceeds
to give up everything (from body to future) to this reckless young man
whose first impression on her is taking a client's car for a joyride
and then assaulting the man. She treats her father awfully even before
he turns into a dominating jerk and she says stupid things like, "Let's
be young and dumb" and "I want to go sneak into a zoo and get high with
people I don't know and I demand you go with me!" Okay, maybe I
stretched that last one. Also, don't even try to consider the boyfriend
as the main character: he is two-dimensional, un-complex, artificially
constructed and a poor excuse for a human being, whose purpose is to
make the target audience swoon and be severely disappointed with real
men.

2. You need convincing conflict. Jade's father is not convincing
conflict. He seems like a genuinely good father whose good character
traits seem to reflect his inner love nature and his negative traits
are unconvincing and contrived in every sense. This is especially
displayed in his affair, the provocation scene against Jade's lover,
and the scene where he almost beats said lover with a baseball bat.
These scenes are in direct contrast to scenes that describe a man who
left his job to support his dying son, who constantly wants to help his
daughter succeed, and is wary of a violent young man who hides with his
daughter in closets during parties. To any logical viewer, it is much
easier to side with a hurt father figure who only wants a bright future
for his children (as opposed to a mother who only wants her children to
find "true love" and to get "good at getting their hearts broken") and
not a mindless 17-year-old caught up in a week-old infatuation and who
is insisting that she found the love of her life. And don't even get me
started on the living son and his girlfriend, whose characters are
entirely irrelevant and whose sole purpose seems to be to force the
audience to believe the dad is the bad guy.

3. In a romance aimed at tweens and teens, you need some underlying
morality or a subtle message to "do what is right". This movie knows
what is right and what is smart, identifies it, and then promptly
laughs in its face and grinds it into the dirt. It is NOT okay for a
young girl to ignore the violent tendencies of her boyfriend before
intending to give up her life for him. It is NOT okay for a mother to
be jealous of the "love" between 2 teenagers that just met and be upset
with the father when attempts to break it off. It is NOT okay to steal
people's cars because they are jerks towards you. It is NOT okay to
sneak into people's houses that don't like you and have sex with
someone you hardly know. It is NOT okay to say "screw you" to
internships and opportunities you have committed to when teenage love
shows up: that's not how life works. It is NOT okay to say it is more
important to seek out a lover before deciding what to do with your
life. It is NOT okay to smoke weed in the elephant's exhibit. It is NOT
okay to make out with an old boyfriend while you are in a relationship
and then promise to run away to the other side of the world in the
middle of college, with no money or plans or future. None of what this
movies says is okay, is okay. 

There was so much wrong with Endless Love, but my space is quite
limited so I touched upon my biggest gripes. As a college student soon
to be engaged, this type of movie should appeal to my inner romantic at
least on some primal level and instead, both my girlfriend and I left
this movie embarrassed to have spent money in this film and laughing at
the sheer ridiculousness of the film's messages and characters. As my
girlfriend said, "I have never enjoyed the trailers before the movie
more than I enjoyed the movie until I saw Endless Love". 

As a postscript: dear filmmakers, teenagers coming from a party that
just got busted by the cops aren't going to go to a new party with
adults and then play games that involve choreography and a boombox and
then go home nicely when told to by the adults. Nice try.
<|_=00=_|>
Though "Endless Love" feels like a rehash of "The Notebook" (as if one
were needed), it's actually a remake of a long-forgotten film from
1980, starring Brooke Shields and Martin Hewitt, based on the novel by
Scott Spencer. In fact, if that film is remembered at all, it's
probably as much for the drippy, inexplicably popular title song (sung
by Diana Ross and Lionel Ritchie) as for the movie itself (it also
marked the screen debut of Tom Cruise, which gives it some historical
significance).

This is another of those dime-a-dozen romances between two kids from
opposite sides of the tracks (as always, the adolescents are portrayed
by actors long out of their teens). Jade is a poor-little-rich-kid
who's just graduated high school and is about to embark on a promising
career in medicine. David, on the other hand, is all ready to set up
life as a mechanic in his dad's garage. The movie has to find a way to
explain how the beautiful Jade, who would clearly be the most popular
girl in any high school in the United States, just happens to be the
least popular girl at this one. Turns out Jade's brother died of cancer
a few years back and she's been isolating with her family ever since. 

"Endless Love" lines up its cast of stereotypes in dutiful fashion: the
snooty rich folk, the jealous exes, the super-supportive mother and
brother, the wisecracking sidekick, and the over-protective, elitist
dad who fairly drips with disdain for the lower social orders, of whom
David is a prime example, and who will stop at nothing to keep such a
boy from marrying his daughter.

Jade is such a dreamy-eyed dolt and David such a paragon of dime-novel
romance that it becomes impossible for us to identify with either one
of them as actual people. Even David's allegedly troubled background
seems gussied-up and phony, a bit of back story tacked on to make him
more relatable to the audience. It doesn't work. 

Riddled with cheesy dialogue and ridiculous plot points, especially in
the melodramatic finale, this sappy, white-bread take on "Romeo and
Juliet" (minus the poetry, of course) scrapes the bottom of the barrel
as far as recent movie romances go. Though, come to think of it, at
least they dropped that dreadful song. That's at least one point in the
movie's favor.
<|_=00=_|>
To my surprise I actually really enjoyed this movie. 

I wasn't sure with all the P-G 13 romantic movies, I figured nothing
would make this stand out and it would be another typical teenage
romance.

I was pleasantly surprised with the film and though it may be a bit
clichéd, I was captivated by the tender acting of Gabrielle Wilde.

The character of the tough, stubborn father of Gabrielle brings to
perspective the reality of needing to let go of the past in order to
allow in good of the present.

There's really not much more to say. This film isn't very deep, or
original, but it was nice to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was one of the most disappointing I have seen in a long
time. The plot is predictable, the characters the same washed-out
figures from movies past, and the message is unrealistic and
ridiculous. The movie itself contains a predictable array of Hollywood
dramatics, ranging from a car crash and subsequent hospital visit, to a
raging house fire to complete the "climactic" ending. The characters
are disastrous- Jade simply a pretty face with little emotional depth
and David a clichéd young man trying to escape from a dark past. The
plot is a series of ludicrous, unrealistic twists and turns designed to
pull at the emotions, which only made me laugh at how absurd the entire
thing was. A complete waste of time & money.
<|_=00=_|>
I admit that a small part of me is rating this movie poorly because I
am not part of the target audience. But another reason is that the teen
love stories from my adolescent years were way more intriguing. Movies
like: A Walk to Remember, 10 Things I Hate About You, and even Cruel
Intentions, were far more intense, had better dialogue, and were more
memorable. It would be impractical for me to rate this flop higher than
those prototypes. 

Also, no one can film a successful romance without chemistry between
the lead actors. The female lead was bland! Clearly the director
ignored her lack of expression for the sake of her pretty nose and
lips. The male lead only had one expression, confusion. Even when he
smiled, it seemed like he didn't get the joke. At one point, he knelt
down to look at a fleck of dust when he was supposed to be distressed!
The rest of the cast shouldn't have to carry the film because Juliet is
monotonous and Romeo's open mouth is drooling. Anyway, who am I
kidding? I guess the dull girl is supposed to end up with the confused
guy; but my glass ball tells me they have some quiet dinner tables in
their future.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the updating, this story is still dated. The disapproving
father thing is just too clichéd. At least the story in this 2014
version isn't as depressing as the Brooke Shields version (for those
who can remember) which was famous for the Diana Ross / Lionel Richie
theme song.

The predominantly British cast isn't quite right for the movie. Alex
Pettyfer looks too old and rather slimy with his slick hair for the
role. He has a 20 something playboy look that isn't right for a high
school kid. Gabriella Wilde isn't a terribly expressive or convincing
actress. She doesn't act in love. Brooke Shields did a better job.

It's not even as good as an inferior Nicholas Sparks movie. This one is
totally optional.
<|_=00=_|>
Life is unpredictable and then life will turn upside down when you meet
you the right person and will feel like staying in safe haven with the
person closest to you. Endless Drama is romanticdrama that has strong
performances but is mowed by a weak script.

Endless Love tells the story of a high-society yet shy and introvert
girl who falls in love with charismatic boy who works in a garage with
his father. The journey of their love begins but faces hurdles in form
of their parents who disapproves of their relationship. 

Endless Love has everything going in its favor - enchanting chemistry
between the screen couple, nice background score , beautiful location.
However the fairy tale does not last long with never ending drama
towards the climax and is saddened by a weak script which makes the
movie a one-time watch. Alex Pettyfer gives a fine performance and
giving admirable performance with each film. Gabriella Wilde is eye-
candy but needs to have better expression. Bruce Greenwood, Robert
Patrick are usual dependent.

So, if you are looking for a nice romantic date with your partner, you
might choose Endless Love for a perfect evening. Decent 2.75/5
