
When the first Expendables was announced, it was supposed to be a
throwback to the early years of action cinema - gratuitous violence,
one liners and major carnage. The first two films lived up to this. The
third is just awful.

Instead of spending more time with the aging heroes we've come to love,
we get stuck with a bunch of whiny youngsters who don't do anything and
aren't very interesting. I seriously doubt the so called "broader"
audience this film is aimed at are gonna care about it. And the people
who were interested in the series are going to be bitterly
disappointed. Nice one, Sly!!!

Some of the new additions to the cast aren't that bad: Banderas,
Snipes, Ford, Grammar, but Gibson completely owns the film - which dies
whenever he is not around.

How's the action? Instead of being focused and over-the-top like the
other two films, we get bland MTV style kills, thanks mainly to the new
PG-13 rating. Who thought giving the film this lame rating was a good
idea? Hey, lets take a series that is aimed at adults, starring aging
action heroes who only the older audience will remember, and turn it
into a dumb teen movie where the target audience WILL NOT CARE who they
are or what they have done. Surely one of the worst business decisions
in recent memory.

Newcomer director Patrick Hughes has not done anything with this film,
but its really hard to tell if that was intentional or if the PG-13
hack job done to the film has made it bland.

Overall, this film is just a waste. Too soft for its hardcore fans, and
not "hip" enough for its intended young audience. No one will be happy.
Sure, it might puts bums on seats for the first week, but it will
quickly disappear after that...and with good cause.

"What mean Expendable?" "It's like when you're invited to a party and
don't show up and nobody really cares".

I suspect theater owners are gonna know the meaning of this come August
15.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed the first two movies for what they were. They were fun rides
with old actors kicking ass and making jokes about how old they are.

The third installation of the series has both of those things, but,
sadly, not enough. The whole reason these movies exist is for us to
enjoy the nostalgia exploding through the screen while we listen to
crappy one-liners and bad jokes. This movie takes itself way too
seriously and, even though it tries, it just isn't self aware enough
for it to work. It spends a big portion of the plot introducing a bunch
of young characters pretty much no one cares about, and then it tries
to make us care about those people we've never seen in our lives
before. Needless to say, it does not succeed. All of a sudden we're
suppose to give a damn about these one dimensional characters, and I'm
not saying that the main cast has more dimensions than one, but we
don't need dimension. We don't need backstory. We don't need emotion.

We need to see old people doing over the top action, make old man jokes
and reference their old movies. The movie just takes itself too
seriously. There are jokes, but there are also dramatic moments which
just fall flat. The acting isn't that good either, and neither are the
new characters. It was cool to see Snipes back in action but his
character was pretty much useless and didn't make any sense plot wise.
Banderas was suppose to be annoying for the characters in the movie and
funny for the audience, but he was just annoying. Gibson's role was
pretty fun, even though he kind of just played the Joker. There's a
scene taken straight from The Dark Knight, but I didn't really mind it,
it was fun. Ford was just really plain and did nothing for the movie.

Overall it's one of the most boring action movies I've seen. It has
literally every single action movie clich√© ever made, and the
performances were average at best. There are also moments where the CGI
is terrible and takes you away from the movie even more. I don't
recommend it unless you are a big fan ( a really really big fan).
<|_=00=_|>
I read a lot of bad reviews about this film, attacks on the script,
plot and direction, so I was pleasantly surprised to find they were all
wrong and they totally missed the point. I think these people were
expecting Oscar winning performances but this film is about watching
bad guys getting their a*s kicked. I also read that the actors seems
withdrawn and bored of their roles and that is utter rubbish, and even
if that were true it doesn't matter, im not interested in deep
characters and meaningful performances in films like this, I just want
to see lots of destruction and the bad guys getting owned.

There's some funny dialogue here and there and Banderas' character had
me smiling a lot.

If you like action films you will enjoy this action romp, so ignore
those bad reviews and grab yourself a bucket of popcorn and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
You know what. With a busy lifestyle and so much to do everyday, every
now and then you just need to watch an action movie that you do not
need to think too much about, that simply washes over you and puts a
nostalgic smile on your face.

The plot might be thin, you know it will likely come good in the end
and you know that the good guy is going to win. But that does not
matter a jot. It is filled with quips, familiar faces, memories of the
80's and just good fun.

There will be people that hate this film as just another example of
mindless violence, but who cares. It is what it is.

If that is what you need, then go and see this film. I loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
-Jet Li appeared for 5 minutes total and doesn't even fight (seriously?
Feels like he was kept in the movie (top-billed too!) just to lure
asians to watch it. Yes I'm an Asian.) 

-Action scenes are a yawn; all the been there done that. No suspense
whatsoever; it's even worse than a Micheal Bay film. 

-The climax fight was just 3 minutes tops and was like Stallone wasn't
even trying. 

-PG-13 violence; Christmas's knife stabs are now blood-less and bullets
are now made of rubber since nobody bleeds or spurts blood after being
fired upon by a minigun. Seriously? 

-The storyline is just a drag and dull; the worst in the series IMO.
The "young-bloods" in this movie are just plain unlikeable, arrogant
and disrespectful i.e. One of the young ones (I didn't even bother
knowing his character name) screamed at Stallone to shut up. Are these
kind of characters the ones we're supposed to like?

-Banderas was just wasted and everyone hates his character. He was
supposed to be comic-relief, but instead he's just annoying. -Talking
about comic-relief, the jokes were just bad. I remembered laughing with
tears watching EX2; I barely grinned at this. Stallone said he wanted
to go back to the dramatic storyline like EX1 and look what happened.
Not dramatic and not funny.

5/10 P/S: Just don't waste your time.
<|_=00=_|>
The second was mildly enjoyable, the third time it's tired, the
attraction has lost any charm and they still haven't figured out a way
to create a sense of world. Terminator, Lethal Weapon, all these films
created their own world. Even Cobra had a home to come back to, that
marvelous Venice beach apartment next to the Pepsi logo where he forked
pizza with a knife. 

There's absolutely none here. There's an action plot with actors
mouthing their lines when they have to, then on to the next scene.
Willis is swapped for Ford but it's again the same thankless plot
function of a few minutes. Arnie hovers around in spots - he says
'choppa'. A few amusing scenes with Snipes and prison. And the action
mechanics are completely slapdash, overall it feels like the second
album after reunion of old heavy metal stalwarts, still polished but
all the passion has gone out a long time ago.

Banderas is the only one who manages to charm and that's because he's
the only one written with a tiny smudge of life - a screw loose because
of what he witnessed.
<|_=00=_|>
The first one was interesting seeing old big names on screen. The
second one had the Chuck Norris jokes and van Damme doing his signature
kicks. This one?... This one has a lot of "kaboom and badawoom"...
Which is why, I guess, it is an all right movie.

Unfortunately none of the big names do anything interesting on-screen.
If you're expecting to see Wesley Snipes do Blade stuff, or Jet Li some
amazing kung fu, nope! you will be disappointed...

Mel Gibson is great, but he's got a tiny part. The only fun is provided
by Antonio Banderas.

As for the new actors... who cares!

The problem with the Expendables movies is that the more big names are
on the credits their on screen time has to be shared with others and it
breaks down to just a few moments each.

I do not understand how they missed the point again!
<|_=00=_|>
If you are looking for intellectual enlightenment please stop reading.
The Expendables 3 is not for the cerebral it is full of blazing action
scenes, comfortable humour and a plot that is held together by duck
tape but it delivers in spades. OK Harrison Ford is his usual gray self
but Antonio Banderas shines in every scene he is in mixing pathos and
humor in a heady mix of, "why has he not been the lead in anything more
than the cat in Shrek", for so long. Also Wesley Snipes has his moment
in the sun as a quipping killer whose knife prowess and capability
makes Stratham's character step up to the plate.

The character list is a who's who of action heroes and the in jokes
keep on rolling. If you love tanks, guns, huge explosions and larger
than life characters you'll not be short changed.

Personally I think this is the best of the three and I say look past
its flaws and just enjoy the ride.
<|_=00=_|>
Continuing my plan to watch every Sly movie in order, I come to
Expendables 3.

Plot In A Paragraph: Barney Ross (Sly) disbands The Expendables and
signs up some new blood to take down arms dealer Conrad Stonebanks (Mel
Gibson) 

Expendables 3 is certainly action packed and while there is plenty hand
to hand knockabout and a lot of people die, but they either quickly
fall bloodlessly, or it's all off screen (a lot of quick cut aways)
with a PG13 rating there is no viewing of the actual carnage. 

For me Snipes owned the beginning of the movie, (but then seemed to
have been forgotten about the rest of the movie) Grammar kept things
moving a long nicely during the recruiting section. Then Banderas walks
away with the movie in the final third. If the character of Doc
(Snipes) had been more carefully scripted, and given more screen time
in the second half of the pic, he would have easily stolen the picture.

Sly has shown before he can be a fine dramatic actor when allowed to
escape his action hero confines, however here Gibson steals the scenes
he shared with him. His hairline is distracting again (especially when
he meets Ford for the first time) at times, as is his wardrobe. He
seems to change clothes every scene. In fact he actually looks younger
in this movie, than he did in the first.

A big problem for me with this one is, Sly's Barney Ross is suddenly
invincible!! the old man who "just got my ass kicked" in the first
movie is long gone. No longer are The Expendables a team, who are there
for each other (the first movie is the most ensemble of the three) it's
a Barney Ross led gang. And he is fine with doing things on his own. 

For his brief time on screen Ford brings style to the proceedings and
simply radiates presence. Gibson is under used (in the first half) But
he owns the scene with Sly in a Van midway through. It is the stand out
scene of the movie (the only one with any intensity, and an example of
how good an expendables movie can be) and a reminder of how good Gibson
is. He is easily the best villain to grace the franchise. That scene in
the van is possibly the best acted scene in the franchise.

Jason Statham has less to do in this movie than the other movies, but
he gives his usual fine performance as Christmas. Jet Li once again is
sadly nothing more than a cameo. Lundgren's Gunner seemed to be
slipping back to the unbalanced guy from the first movie, and Couture
just seems happy to be there!!

Of the young guns, Ortiz and Powell are bland and uninteresting, Kellan
Lutz is at least annoying with his lack of respect for Barney, whilst
Rhonda Rousey (My god is she hot) is OK

There is an Expendables movie so of course there is a fiery climax,
which unfortunately involves some Awful CGI explosions. If Superman IV
should have thought film makers anything, it is 'if you have bad
special effects, don't reuse them over and over again!!' 

There are less jokey references to the stars previous roles than in
Expendables 2, and it is much effective than the infinite amount in
Ex2. It is longer than other two movies, so it gives a bit more time to
know the characters, Sadly it wasted on the likes of Ortiz and Lutz,
who are both a waste of screen time. 

The fight between Sly & Gibson is too short (About same as Sly and JCVD
in Ex2) and is predictable. The climax is also more than slightly
ridiculous. As I said earlier, Gibson is the best villain to grace an
Expendables movie, one you felt could hurt the Expendables, and it is
was saddening to see him dispatched so effortlessly and singlehandedly
by Sly. I'd have rather Gibson got the better of Sly in a brutal fight,
with both of them giving every ounce they had (as Rambo and Riggs would
have done) before Sly won, or even better if Jet Li (ala Lethal Weapon
4) helped Sly fight him. 

The core audience of this franchise don't care about the new younger
people that were added to the cast, and they also don't want to see a
PG-13 movie with them in, whilst younger cinema goers don't care about
an Expendables movie.

I think if we got an R rated DVD, it may be a bit better thought of,
but the lame new recruits would still be a waste of screen time, the
fight would still be the same and again all of the Expendables would
live. 

Another Expendables movie that continues the trend of the previous two
movies, some good parts, some not so good parts, an overall feeling of
a missed opportunity, but still OK.

Hampered by the rating, which angered some/most fans, and the HD
screener leak, Expendables 3 limped to $39 million at the domestic box
office, and ended the year, the 80th Highest Grossing Movie of 2014.
<|_=00=_|>
The Expendables series was supposed to be bring back the thrills of the
great 80s action films. Nostalgia is the safe go-to for audiences of
today, and Stallone knows this. Most of the man's career has revolved
around him playing the same roles for over 30 years. The trailer came
out and it was extremely promising. Bringing in actors like
Schwarzenegger, Dolph Lundgren, Bruce Willis and what do you know?
Stallone was even directing, a man who had proved himself a competent
action director. Even of recent years, Rambo IV was pretty awesome.
Ironically however, these 80s stars created something as dull and
humourless as today's modern action films. Where was the fun? Where was
the one liners? What should have been a spectacle piece with soul was a
shaky-cam filled ride of nauseating proportions. Sure there were some
small moments of fun, but they were few and far between. So, has the
third iteration in the series any good? Not really.

The movie follows The Expendables on a mission to stop a weapon's
trade, they discover an old foe once thought dead (Gibson), takes out
one of their own. Their leader, Barney (Stallone), to keep the rest of
his Expendables brethren safe, goes on a suicide mission with a new
younger team to exact revenge.

Here lies the fundamental problem with the film - the actual
Expendables aren't the focus of the movie. There's been an attempt by
the filmmakers to attract a younger audience by bringing in fresh,
younger 'action stars' and of course the PG-13 rating, the series'
first. This could have worked, if they hired ANYBODY who had a star
credit in the past three years. Instead, the audience is subjected to a
bunch of no-name stars running around, spouting annoying banter at one
another. The reason why people come to see these movies are for the
nostalgia of the past films these actors have been in, and that they
are in a film altogether. So when you disband what the audiences came
for and replace them with a bunch of nobodies, you're completely
alienating your existing fan base. What people want to see if Rocky and
The Terminator killing bad guys together, and when you just replace
them with regular mercenaries, it isn't special to the viewers anymore.

That's not to say that's the only problem with the film. For this type
of movie, motives of character's aren't entirely clear. Why would
Barney abandon his loyal team ready to fight by his side for a bunch of
random mercenaries? The action is still largely incoherent, with either
way too many cuts during the scene or really poorly executed fight
choreography. The visual effects department looks like it had to take a
pay cut for the actor's, there is better CGI on Agent's of Shield
(every car ride is flat green-screen, one scene with a base jumper just
looks completely unfinished). The editing - dear lord - the editing in
this movie is some of the worse I have seen in a film in a long time.
There are multiple cutaways to things for a minuscule amount of time
that the audience has no idea what it is (a scene ends with a guy who
the audience hasn't picking up a magazine and leaving), or is
completely unintentionally hilarious with how the cut has been
executed. The main example that sticks out is a scene that slowly zooms
in dramatically on Stallone's face for about thirty seconds, as if the
character was about to have a flashback, just to cut straight to the
next scene at a hospital. However, the biggest crime this film commits
is it's waste of talent. Jet Li is one of the top billed actors, and
yet has about 90 seconds of screen time. Wesley Snipes has a fun and
humorous introduction to his character, but then is just relegated to
the background after the first act. Terry Crews is one of the most
charismatic actors in films today and he is COMPLETELY wasted in the
movie.

This movie is getting a 4/10 from me, because there are several
elements that save this lazily made film. Antonio Banderas is an
absolute joy to watch, giving a crazy, over the top performance that
would make Nicolas Cage jealous. Mel Gibson, whilst more restrained,
gives his all as the crazy bad guy, and although the majority of the
visual effects are an eyesore, the stunt work in the third act of the
film is quite impressive and even engaging.

Skip this one, go watch Guardians at the cinemas again.
