
I saw this movie on Sept. 8 at the Toronto Film Festival. It was an
honest and powerful portrayal of Mandela the man and the toll his
striving for a better South African society took on his personal life.
The movie showed how his first marriage crumbled because his wife
couldn't take his long absences from her and their 4 children while his
role in the ANC and the anti-apartheid movement became his greater
focus. Although he explained to her that he was doing this work for all
of South Africa's black people and the children who were growing up in
those oppressed conditions, his own children suffered for his strong
convictions for the greater good. He married a woman he truly loved,
Winnie, and had 2 daughters with her. Although Winnie supported and
fought alongside Mandela for the cause, this family ultimately
suffered, too, when he continued his campaign with the ANC and it
turned to more drastic means to send a message to the South African
government. As a result of his arrest and conviction for those actions,
he spent 27 years away from his young family. There were some truly
heart-wrenching moments and the actor who played Mandela, Idris Elba,
convincingly conveyed the doubts and regrets that Mandela felt in not
being able to be with his wife and children all those years.

The movie showed this personal side of the Mandela story well. It
skipped through the facts that are well known and easily accessed. This
wasn't the focus of the movie. Now knowing the great sacrifices he
endured to achieve the freedom he desired for all black South Africans,
it made me ever more grateful for having witnessed a small part of the
Mandela story. I was part of the "Free Mandela" movement in the late
'80's and I saw him speak when he came to Toronto in 1990. Seeing this
movie, with it's inclusion of live footage from that time, brought back
memories of the emotions of the era, the "Boycott South African goods"
campaign, the elation when Mandela was finally freed, and feeling the
goosebumps when he spoke. He was, and is, one of the most inspiring,
great leaders of our time. I highly recommend everyone go see this
movie when it is widely released. It will leave you wanting to learn
more about Mandela (I plan to read his autobiography bearing the same
name as the movie), and maybe even go out and do your part to make this
a better society too, however small the contribution. As Mandela says
in the movie, "Alone we have no power, together, we have the power to
change the world".
<|_=00=_|>
As a 37 year old white South African, who never really saw, felt or
experienced Apartheid and the way SA was back then as I was too young,
I now have a much better appreciation for all the suffering,
discrimination and pain that was caused.

Nelson Madela gave up most of his adult life for a cause which has now
come full circle and SA is now better off for it, mostly.

A powerful movie, that shows a man more passionate about equality and
human rights than his own well being, and sadly at the detriment of his
own family.

I strongly recommend every single South African to watch this movie,
especially our current government!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film that is difficult to judge simply in cinematic terms
since the subject is such a titanic figure in recent history, many
older viewers (such as me) will have lived through most of the events
depicted, and Nelson Mandela himself - the prisoner who became a
president - unknowingly heightened the interest around his life by
dying just weeks before the film was released. Yet, allowing for all of
this, by any standards "Mandela" is a success, telling a powerful story
in a honest and immensely moving manner with some outstanding acting.
If it is somewhat reverential, this was to be expected, given the
subject and the timing.

Unfashionably for recent bio-pics, "Mandela" chooses not to concentrate
on a seminal incident in the subject's life but to paint on a huge
canvas, covering many decades and lots of political events in a linear
narrative that frequently deploys news clips from the time. It is based
on Mandela's long 1995 biography of the same name which I bought on a
visit to Robben Island and read with great admiration. British William
Nicholson ("Gladiator") has done a skillful job of turning such a huge
story into a manageable script and British director Justin Chadwick
("The Other Boleyn Girl") handles a complex of ingredients with genuine
talent. It looks good with attention to period clothing and artifacts
and use of actual sites and some breathtaking countryside (it was shot
entirely on location in South Africa).

Ultimately, however, the success of such an ambitious work rests
especially on the lead actors and the casting here was inspired. Idris
Elba as the eponymous hero gives a towering performance, while Naomie
Harris is a revelation as the more complex and less sympathetic
character of his second wife Winnie. It helps that both are not major
stars - although that is now set to change - and notable that both are
British actors who affect convincing accents.

This is a balanced portrayal of multi-layered characters. Mandela is
represented with great respect but he is not offered to us as a saint.
He treats his first wife unkindly and his support for violence is not
disguised. The film really impresses with its representation of Winnie,
a woman who suffered so much, hated so much, and herself caused so much
injustice. Mandela is now dead but his great project - the creation of
a peaceful and prosperous multiracial nation - is still a work in
progress.
<|_=00=_|>
Mandela: Long Way To Freedom (English): The film which is releasing in
India after 2 months (24 January 2014) of it's international release (a
week before Nelson Mandela's death), is indeed a nice cinematic outing
based on the Classic Hollywood narrative style. Despite the film losing
it's track while focusing more on the life and times of Late Nelson
Mandela, the film scores with it's screenplay (William Nicholson) based
on the autobiography written by the legend himself, then comes the
production designing work by Johnny Breedt, whose brilliantly portrays
the Apartheid times on screen, the cinematography by Lol Crawly whose
shots brilliantly bring out the best of the legend and his times and
then the proper placement of music score as well as the archival
footages within the film's coarse, the the performances by the lead.
The best among them comes the performance by Idris Elba who greatly
delivers a performance that's worth cherishing and successfully brings
out the portrayal of Madiba well and then comes the narration by the
director Justin Chadwick, who keeps you engaged and sympathize with the
film's journey to freedom. Not to be missed! My rating would be: 4/5.ï»¿
<|_=00=_|>
Watched it earlier tonight. A reviewer was right when he said Chadwick
had done a by-the-numbers job on it. 

I am Not a fan of biopics. However, I did enjoy 'Gandhi', and, to a
relatively lesser extent, 'Aviator'. Those characters too were
undeniably compelling, which made the tales all the more riveting.
Mandela's character is definitely one such. However, something was lost
in translation when it came to filming Madiba's life's work,
ironically, in the year that he was finally laid to rest. 

No fault lies with the performers, but choosing to sideline a great
many supporting characters and not depict the horrors of apartheid in
the year of '12 years a slave' (the preview for which played before
this one) seems a tad ironic, in not giving the audience something
powerful to root against. I don't know if the responsibility rests with
the original work itself (in terms of skimming over the details, that
is), but the punch, the power, that was sorely needed to make this a
rousing epic that it should aspire for, is missing. Someone needs to
remake this, if possible, with the same cast, and hopefully make it
more powerful/riveting. The old-age makeup on Elba also took me out of
the movie multiple times. U2's 'Ordinary love' plays during the
end-credits, but I don't know if the movie would have benefited more
from it being played over one of the key sequences (take your pick).
Perhaps Justin Chadwick was not the man for this job (He took the bite
out of 'the other Boleyn girl', so that aspect's consistent enough,
that did not make him suitable for this job in any case).

Having said all that, this is still a decent effort, just about right
in most departments, and far better than other by-the-numbers
predictable/routine fare playing at the local multiplex.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an insightful biography about great leader Nelson Mandela who
was a South African anti-apartheid revolutionary, politician and
philanthropist . He was leader of the African National Congress, who
has been imprisoned since 1963 for allegedly inciting riots against the
government. As he spend long time in prison amidst tight economic
sanctions by the international community, and growing unrest by the
natives who continue their fight for equality, and freedom for Nelson
Mandela. Amongst mounting international pressure to free Nelson, as
well as imposition of crippling economic sanctions, the South African
government representative meets with Nelson and agrees to free him .
One time freed Mandela served as President of South Africa from 1994 to
1999. He was South Africa's first black chief executive, and the first
elected in a fully representative democratic election. His government
focused on dismantling the legacy of apartheid through tackling
institutionalised racism, poverty and inequality, and fostering racial
reconciliation. Politically an African nationalist and democratic
socialist, he served as President of the African National Congress
(ANC) from 1991 to 1997. Internationally, Mandela was Secretary General
of the Non-Aligned Movement from 1998 to 1999.

This is an enjoyable biopic about Mandela's life , an emotive journey
from his boyhood by means of flashbacks in a rural village , his
imprisonment through to his inauguration as the first democratically
elected president of South Africa . The picture has some strong moments
as police cruelty on civilians as well security officers' brutality
against people , including women , and infants . There's enough
background information to give the spectator a taste of what South
African life was like under apartheid, detailing hard confrontations ,
violent environment , fear and tension . The flick describes perfectly
a great man who could have lived in bitterness and anger all his
existence , seeking vengeance when he ultimately achieved power, but
who instead chose to devote himself to democracy and peaceful
reconciliation between blacks and whites in South Africa . The main
actors , Idris Elba and Naomi Harris give awesome interpretation and
the story was professionally directed by Justin Chadwick . Any film
that concerns Nelson Mandela is a picture worth watching in my opinion
and this one results to be one of the best . Worthwhile seeing for
historical characters buffs . Other films based on this historical
figure are the followings : Â¨MandelaÂ¨ (1987) by Philip Saville with
Danny Glover , Alfre Woodward , Warren Clarke , Julian Glover ;
Â¨Mandela and De ClerkÂ¨ (1997 )by Joseph Sargent with Sidney Poitier and
Michael Caine ; Â¨Goodbye BafanaÂ¨ (2007) by Billie August with Dennis
Haysbert ,Joseph Fiennes , Diane Kruger and Â¨WinnieÂ¨ by Darrel Root
with Jennifer Hudson , Terrence Howard , Elias Koteas . 

The picture was well based on real events and characters whose
screenplay was faithfully written by William Nicholson upon Nelson
Mandel's autobiography : As Mandela or Xhosa born to the Thembu royal
family, Mandela attended the Fort Hare University and the University of
Witwatersrand, where he studied law. Living in Johannesburg, he became
involved in anti-colonial politics, joining the ANC and becoming a
founding member of its Youth League. After the Afrikaner minority
government of the National Party established apartheid in 1948, he rose
to prominence in the ANC's 1952 Defiance Campaign, was appointed
superintendent of the organisation's Transvaal chapter and presided
over the 1955 Congress of the People. Working as a lawyer, he was
repeatedly arrested for seditious activities and, with the ANC
leadership, was unsuccessfully prosecuted in the Treason Trial from
1956 to 1961. Influenced by Marxism, he secretly joined the South
African Communist Party (SACP) and sat on its Central Committee.
Although initially committed to non-violent protest, in association
with the SACP he co-founded the militant Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) in
1961, leading a sabotage campaign against the apartheid government. In
1962, he was arrested, convicted of conspiracy to overthrow the state,
and sentenced to life imprisonment in the Rivonia Trial. Mandela served
27 years in prison, initially on Robben Island, and later in Pollsmoor
Prison and Victor Verster Prison. An international campaign lobbied for
his release, which was granted in 1990 amid escalating civil strife.
Mandela joined negotiations with Nationalist President F. W. De Klerk
to abolish apartheid and establish multiracial elections in 1994, in
which he led the ANC to victory and became South Africa's first black
president. He published his autobiography in 1995. During his tenure in
the Government of National Unity he invited other political parties to
join the cabinet, and promulgated a new constitution. He also created
the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate past human
rights abuses. While continuing the former government's liberal
economic policy, his administration also introduced measures to
encourage land reform, combat poverty, and expand healthcare services.
Internationally, he acted as mediator between Libya and the United
Kingdom in the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing trial, and oversaw military
intervention in Lesotho. He declined to run for a second term, and was
succeeded by his deputy, Thabo Mbeki. Mandela became an elder
statesman, focusing on charitable work in combating poverty and
HIV/AIDS through the Nelson Mandela Foundation. Mandela was a
controversial figure for much of his life. Denounced as a communist
terrorist by critics, he nevertheless gained international acclaim for
his activism, having received more than 250 honours, including the 1993
Nobel Peace Prize, the US Presidential Medal of Freedom, and the Soviet
Order of Lenin. He is held in deep respect within South Africa, where
he is often referred to by his Xhosa clan name, Madiba, or as Tata
("Father"); he is often described as the "Father of the Nation".
<|_=00=_|>
Mr. Mandela's story wold be better celebrated in a mini series spanning
several episodes if one is to try to examine the real effect of his
life and struggle. From his beginning in the legal pursuit to the
incredible resolutions his endeavor and great strength delivered to the
world, a glancing look is not sufficient to either dissect or fully
understand the scope of this man's achievement on all of us and our
existence.

There are simply too many elements to the story line of this man's life
that cannot be appreciated when so much material is covered in such
short order. The early rise of his group, the man's personal
confliction, the nature of the apartheid movement and the incredible
will of the man to transcend it all is touched upon but never really
explored to a level where the impact of his triumph is delivered to the
audience.
<|_=00=_|>
Nelson Mandela is a man that should be remembered for his incredible
fighting spirit that not only helped him achieve his goals, but also be
remembered as an important leader to his people. When making movie
about such an iconic and historic figure, one has to cast the perfect
actor. Idris Elba was very much the right man for the job. The actor is
Mandela in every scene he appears and shares the same emotions as our
real life protagonist. This is clearly one of the best roles of the
year and one of my personal favorites. Naomie Harris is not far off
either as Winnie, Madiba's second wife, a woman who stands by her man
during his imprisonment, and slowly drifts apart from him as she no
longer feels she knows him and his intentions. Much has been said about
the movie's plot flaws, something I do not agree with as I found it to
be quite entertaining and a great homage to the legend that is Nelson
Mandela. Great performances in a fantastic movie.

Rating 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie I watched a couple of days ago. I do know a little bit
of what happened in South Africa but not enough for me to say "This is
wrong, and so's this". I was interested in this because I wanted to see
how this movie held up and for what it is... It isn't that bad. I mean
I can see people not liking it but I enjoyed it.

Okay so the plot, Nelson Mandela is a lawyer and political activist who
cheated on his wife. He continues to fight for Black Rights, gets
married again and has more children until he gets arrested. As his time
in jail goes on the situation in South Africa becomes more and more out
of control and he gets released from jail by popular demand.

Okay, the acting - especially from Idris Elba is fantastic. He gets
completely lost in the role of Nelson Mandela and Naome Harris does a
good job as his wife, I don't know that much about her to say whether
it is accurate or not. Pretty much everyone does a good job in this
movie.

The second half of this movie is also really good. It tells the events
in the way they have done but also goes pretty in-depth as to what
Mandela was like and it was the point in the movie where it didn't seem
like he was fighting for Black rights alone, he was fighting for
equality on both parts.

I personally think one thing that is interesting here is that instead
of most of the anti-racism movies I watch where, for the most part it
shocks you with what happened (depending on the time period in which
the movie is set) this movie does that but it is more focused on being
inspirational rather then this.

If there was a complaint with this movie is even reaching in 2Â½ hours
it seems like they're squeezing a lot in. I mean it's at least a clear
50 or 60 years of this person's life as well as showing what happened
to the people around them. I mean I would have loved to see something
along the lines of Mandela's early days in trying to overthrow the
Apartheid government and ending with the arrest or on the flip side
about Mandela being released, Black people getting the right to vote
and him becoming President, even those couple of scenes would have
worked as an hour and a half movie. However, for what they have - It's
not bad.

In the end I really enjoyed this one. I can see why some people
wouldn't though but if you're looking for a story showing the entire
adult to elderly life of one of history's greatest people showcased as
an inspirational story - this is fine. I would recommend it but at the
same time I'd also say what it is to expect.
<|_=00=_|>
Nelson Mandela is one of the most important and celebrated political
history, known for his imprisonment, his stand against apartheid and
his commitment to peace and racial equality. A film based on his
autobiography was always going to be of interest and seen as clear
awards bait.

Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom follows a young Nelson Mandela (Idris
Elba) in his early days in politics, working as a lawyer in
Johannesburg, 1942 and is approached by the ANC to become an achieve
member of the defiance movement. During the cause of the film it
follows Mandela's relationship with Winnie Madikizela (Naomie Harris),
his move into violence, his trial and imprisonment. But the 1980s South
Africa becomes ungovernable the Apartheid regime are forced to open
negotiations with Mandela.

Mandela's autobiography is a large book, spanning nearly 800 pages and
the film attempts to tell the story of over 50 years of history in a 2
hour, 20 minute package. This results in a bio-pic of broad
brushstrokes, giving ups brief snippets of moments in Mandela's life,
giving us a glance of events instead of going into any details. This is
especially the case of the early part of the film, skipping through
Mandela's early political activism, the foray into terrorism and the
trial. Even the events on Robbin Island were quick and it was only when
the film enters into the political negotiations when there is more of a
narrative throughout and we able to feel the violent tension South
Africa was going through.

Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom has an excellent cast with the likes of
Elba and Harris and they performs were able to transcend the fact they
did not look the like people they did played. They get the voices and
mannerisms down as the film explores Mandela's and Winnie's different
ideologies later on in the film. They relationship is one of the
longest running themes of the films. The supporting cast were also very
strong in their performances and there was no weak link in the film.

Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom was helmed by Justin Chadwick and written
by William Nicholson. Chadwick is a very safe director and Mandela is a
competently made film. His direction is solid, showing casing the
period effective, with set pieces being well set up and well shot as
the film goes through a lighting pace. But it was the script that was
the biggest let down, with Nicholson rushing through Mandela's life
instead of letting moments have a chance to breath. This was a film
that either needed to be longer, a three hour epic so many parts of
Mandela's life could be explored or been more focused on one or two
events. There were parts that were just screen writing tricks then a
real moments, like the fist metaphor.

Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom is a solidly made, but safe film. There
are excellent moments in the second half of the film as South Africa
implodes with violence, but it is a very safe film that tries to fit
too much in its running time. It is a film that can easily appeal to a
middle -aged, mainstream audience.

6.5/10
