
Emily Dickinson isn't the easiest subject for a feature-length biopic.
True, she is the greatest female poet in the English language, maybe
even in world literature. But her life was uneventful in the extreme.
She never married and probably died a virgin. Her love affairs were
conducted by correspondence. She became reclusive as she got older,
donning a white dress, rarely leaving home, and holding conversations
through doorways. She wrote poetrya kind of literature appealing only
to a tiny minority of readers and not amenable to film adaptation.
Moreover, with a few exceptions, her poems are difficult: she
specialized in extreme mental states and thorny intellectual paradoxes.
And she died in complete obscurityit's only by good fortune that the
1800 poems she wrote still exist. At her death the vast majority of
them existed only in a single handwritten manuscript and could easily
have been consigned to flame as the ramblings of an eccentric spinster.

So Dickinson's biography hardly conforms to the typical story arc or
dramatic requirements of the average American film. Until now, the most
successful dramatization of the life of this poet who lived an interior
existence, both literally and figuratively, was the one-woman play The
Belle of Amherst, which needless to say emphasized her isolation. 

Terence Davies's film knows and accepts all this, yet remembers that
Dickinson in her own time was not a great poet, except perhaps only in
the farthest reaches of her own imagination. Instead of a lonely
genius, Davies conjures up a Dickinson who was very much a social
being, even if her interactions were largely restricted to her family.
Cynthia Nixon's Emily is a flawed, totally plausible, and deeply
sympathetic woman of her time. 

This is a brilliant film in the way it exploits the resources of the
medium. The performances are universally excellent, and the dialogue is
as witty as it must have been among clever Emily and her circle. Davies
captures the claustrophobic interiors and repressed souls of still-
Puritan mid-19th-century small-town Amherst, Massachusetts. The editing
and pacing are superb, as for example in a slow 360 degree pan around
the Dickinson sitting room that begins and ends on Emily's face. 

But it's also brilliant in the way that it interprets Dickinson's life.
How did the Civil War impact her Amherst domesticity? Why did she wear
a white dress? What did she feel when her brother Austin, who lived
with his wife Susan next door, started conducting an adulterous affair
in her own living room? How did she feel to be dying slowly and
horribly of kidney disease knowing that her poetry (her "Letter to the
World" as she put it) was almost totally unread? Did the hope that
she'd be appreciated by posterity reconcile her to her fate? Nixon's
Emily behaves in each case as a human being would, making her
predicament painful to watch. But it's strangely exhilarating toowe
watch knowing that Dickinson's "Letter" has most definitely been
delivered.

The film is slow-paced and developed as a series of vignettes. There's
quite a lot of poetry in voice-over. At no point does it pander to
21st- century sensibilities. It will not be to the taste of the
majority of the cinema-going public. Nor will many Dickinson cultists
enjoy it, as they often prefer to idealize or mythologize her rather
than think of her as a flesh-and-blood woman. But as a plausible
biography of one of America's greatest poets, this film is nothing
short of a triumph.
<|_=00=_|>
The only positive comment I can make after wasting over two hours
watching this sorry mess of a film is that Cynthia Nixon does a
creditable job of acting in spite of a lame and mordant script. Most of
the rest of the cast for the most part sounds as if they were doing an
initial read-through. The direction is stagy and there is an excess of
glacially slow pans around candle-lit interiors that contribute nothing
to the story line, such that it is. The story told is highly
inaccurate. It characterizes Dickinson as a reclusive, shrewish,
depressive, neurotically cruel bitch. ED actually had some close and
possibly even romantic relationships both in her youth and in middle
age -- you would not know that from this selective script. 

The script also fails to convey her love of Nature and her quiet joy in
life, even when she cloistered herself. In fact she was more widely
known for her expertise in gardening than her poetry while she lived,
but she is barely shown outside her rooms throughout the movie. There
are many imagined unpleasant confrontations and bitter exchanges
between characters in the film that have no apparent basis in reality.
It's more a contrived soap opera in period dress than bio-pic;
"Desperate Housewives of Amherst" might have been a more accurate
title.

As to direct contradictions to the truth: Dickinson's sister in law was
an acquaintance known to her years before she married into the family
-- the film shows her as a stranger being introduced to the family
after the marriage. Dickinson also NEVER met her brother's mistress,
Mabel Todd, let alone caught them in flagrante delicto, as shown in the
film. In fact, Todd respected ED's work and was one of the people who
made sure that Dickinson's poems were posthumously published. ED was
also not emotionally close to her distant mother, though the film turns
their relationship into a sappy cliché. In a final blow to ED's memory,
the film shows her coffin being hauled to the cemetery in a horse drawn
hearse. In fact, per her wishes, her loved ones placed her favorite
flowers in the casket with her and then carried it by hand through
fields of buttercups to the family plot.

This film left myself and my companion (a published poet who teaches
writing at University level) feeling drained, depressed and
disappointed. There were so many aspects of ED's personality and
incidents in her life that could have enriched and enlivened this film
-- perhaps they were left on the cutting room floor? Honestly, if you
have not read Emily Dickinson's poetry before seeing this mordant
flick, you are not going to be inspired to do so afterwards.
<|_=00=_|>
The great American poet Emily Dickinson wrote: 

"Because I could not stop for Death, He kindly stopped for me; The
carriage held but just ourselves And Immortality." 

Whether or not Dickinson stopped for life, it kindly stopped for her
and her immortality is enshrined in the legacy of the 1800 exquisite
poems she left, only ten of which were published during her lifetime.
She did not leave any commentaries to interpret her work, but left them
for us to understand and explain. One interpretation of her life and
work is provided by Terence Davies in his film A Quiet Passion, a
sympathetic but overwritten and curiously wooden look at her life and
the influences that shaped her art. Starring Cynthia Nixon ("The
Adderall Diaries") as Emily, Davies traces Dickinson's life in a
standard linear format. Raised in the Puritan New England city of
Amherst, Massachusetts (the film is shot near Antwerp, Belgium) the
poet was lonely and secretive throughout her life, seldom left home,
and visitors were few. 

She stayed with her family all of her life, living through births,
marriages, and deaths but always setting aside the early morning hours
in her study to compose. Bright and outgoing as a young woman, Emily is
portrayed as becoming more isolated, and bitter as she grows older. Her
only companions were her austere and unforgiving father, Edward (Keith
Carradine, "Ain't Them Bodies Saints"), a one-term Congressman, her
haughty brother, Austin (Duncan Duff, "Island"), who became an attorney
and lived next door with his wife Susan Gilbert (Johdi May, "Ginger and
Rosa"), and her younger sister, Lavinia (Jennifer Ehle, "Little Men")
who was her greatest solace. As the film opens, Emily is tagged as an
outsider almost immediately. As a young student (Emma Bell, "See You in
Valhalla") at the Mount Holyoke women's seminary, she stands up to the
governess by declaring that she does not want either to be saved by
divine Providence or forgotten by it and also speaks out for feminism,
women's rights and abolitionism. 

Her willingness to challenge conventional thinking by dismissing
Longfellow's poem "The Song of Hiawatha" as "gruel," and her support
for the poorly-regarded Bronte sisters was not appreciated by her
family. "If they wanted to be wholesome," she retorted, "I imagine they
would crochet." As Davies cleverly morphs the faces of Emily and her
well-to-do family from children into adults, a clearer picture emerges
of her relationship with her strict father and reserved mother (Joanna
Bacon, "Love Actually"). Her only refuge from family conflicts and
disappointments was her intimate relationship with Vinnie, the
companionship of her best friend Vryling Buffam (Catherine Bailey, "The
Grind"), and the sermons of Reverend Wadsworth (Eric Loren, "Red
Lights"). Irreverent and provocative, Emily, Vinnie, and Vryling are
shown walking through the gardens, exchanging witty aphorisms while
they twirl their parasols, but the element of artifice is overbearing. 

We do not see Emily in the process of composition but listen to her
poems read aloud in voice-over. They are the highlight of the film, but
there are not enough of them and too much time is spent on Emily's sad
physical deterioration as she confronts the debilitating Bright's
disease. In this regard, there is no subtlety in the film's
presentation as the camera unnecessarily lingers over Emily's shaking
fits for an inordinate length of time and her last days are an
endurance test for the audience. In spite of the family's strong
religious approach to life, there is no reflection about her life and
legacy or talk about life's meaning and purpose. 

Though Emily Dickinson's poetry glimmers with a spiritual glow, the
uniqueness of who she is does not fully come across. For all of its
fine performances and moments of comic satire, A Quiet Passion is
dramatically inert, and its stilted and mannered dialogue is an
emotional straitjacket with each character talking to the other as if
they were reading a book of aphorisms. Terence Davies has directed some
memorable period films in his career such as his remarkable adaptation
of Edith Wharton's The House of Mirth. A Quiet Passion, however, has
neither quiet nor passion. Gratitude must be offered, however, to
Davies for introducing the poems of Emily Dickinson to a wider
audience. Thanks Terence and thanks Emily. 

"You left me, sweet, two legacies, A legacy of love A Heavenly Father
would content, Had He the offer of; You left me boundaries of pain
Capacious as the sea, Between eternity and time, Your consciousness and
me"
<|_=00=_|>
I dragged myself to see a film about someone I knew nothing about -
except from a line in a Simon and Garfunkel song - and the odd mention
from friends years ago - assuming it could easily be a scriptwriters
fantasy world - but at least a costume drama outlining the person, her
surroundings and time.

It was in fact very moving - drawing you into a the completely unknown
mind of this women and the people around her - no one left the cinema
immediately but just stayed and stared - were they as upset as I was ?

It was all the more interesting coming one day after a very interesting
documentary of the journey of the Mayflower migrants from 1608 when
they fled to Holland for a new life and then to a ship in 1620 to cross
the Atlantic so their children would still be English and not Dutch
puritans - the documentary forces you to step into the minds and
motives of these people, who should have perished but managed to
survive due to a powerful faith - which appears just nonsense to me -
but it does come from the times - the evolution of human consciousness.

Emily Dickinson is there 200 years after - still in a fossilized
society - soon to be taken over by Irish Catholicism in Boston - in a
style reminiscent of a theater play of the day - at first too witty and
full of riposte, but which slowly takes hold of you.

The actors are all good, but the driving force is the question of what
it was like to be a woman in this time - what did they actually think
and do - why did Emily and her sister not marry but stay at home - was
the world outside, and the society of men, so cold, foreign and formal
that they stayed where they were sure there was warmth.

A good film if you want to realize you don't really understand how
other people see the world - and to be moved by the fact they simply
exist and feel, and are then snuffed out like a candle flame.
<|_=00=_|>
- He's not even capable of making up his mind. - That's because he's
too stupid to have one. 

You'd expect this kind of witty dialogue in a Woody Allen film about
condescending New York intellectuals. But 'A Quiet Passion', about 19th
century American poet Emily Dickinson, is also full of it. Clearly, she
used her talent not only to write poetry, but also to engage in
spirited conversation. 

British director Terence Davies shows Dickinson as a person who refused
to stick to the strict rules of life in the Victorian era. She had a
mind of her own, and was not afraid to speak out. At the same time, she
seemed to have trouble finding happiness. The most tragic element of
her life was that her poetry was hardly appreciated. Only a few poems
were published in the local paper. 

All this is subtly shown in the biopic, which follows Dickinson from
her childhood to her death. The poems are read by a voice-over, which
is not the easiest way to appreciate poetry. But at the same time, the
poems are a necessary element to understand Dickinson as she was. 

Cynthia Nixon gives a good, restrained performance. It's nice to see
her in a role that's the complete opposite from the career lawyer
Miranda in 'Sex and the City'. 

Director Davies doesn't speed things up. The film is a calm and quiet
affair, which is good because Dickinson's life itself was calm and
quiet. Some scenes are beautiful just because they are unhurried: in
one scene, the camera moves extremely slowly around Dickinson's living
room, lingering on walls and doors as well as on the people present. 

If you are acquainted with Emily Dickinson's work, this film gives an
interesting insight into her life and her poetry. If you're not, this
film is a great introduction to it.
<|_=00=_|>
Not balm for those who admire Emily Dickinson, and far from being a
stupendous celluloid tomb, "A Quiet Passion" is as dreary an entry in
film biographies as I've seen since Hilary Swank sank Amelia Earhart.

The principal problem is the dialogue. Dickinson's verse is used in
some scenes, and as a voice-over, but not to any particularly evocative
effect since her verse, like haiku, is more for contemplation than
recitation. And so the story is told through character, which means
through the rest of the dialogue, the bulk of which is just plain
preposterous. Human beings do not converse like this gang does, where
every single comment is quasi-philosophical, and often delivered with
tear-filled eyes.
<|_=00=_|>
There are two things that spoil this movie:

1) The actors are simply not up to the task especially when it involves
reciting poetry. (We went home and watched a DVD of Judi Densch in
Ibsen's Ghosts and the contrast between actors who know how to read
their lines and actors who don't was striking.) 2) The movie is far too
melodramatic.

There are other lesser problems too. Characters refer to male-female
issues as "Gender" which is the modern PC way to put it while in the
19th century and through half of the 20th century it was simply called
"Sex". Does no one remember the job applications that said SEX: M or F?
This is the way it was and, if the movie was to be more accurate, the
way it used to be in the 19th century too.

In all this is the Simon and Garfunkel version of "and you read your
Emily Dickinson, and I my Robert Frost". Here's hoping they don't do
another movie of the latter.
<|_=00=_|>
Emily Dickinson lived her entire life (1830-1886) in Amherst,
Massachusetts, rarely leaving the town and, in middle age, not even
leaving the family home. She never married and, in this biopic, only
once falls seriously in love  with a married vicar who almost
certainly did not know of her "quiet passion". A young man who courts
her later in the movie has to talk to her unseen at the top of the
stairs.

Dickinson's life lacks the stuff that might make a substantial movie.
Cynthia Nixon does a valiant job of giving her substance  in
conversations and arguments with her sister (Jennifer Ehle), her father
(Keith Carradine, looking like a Mount Rushmore effigy) and visitors
and relatives  but what little drama there is here comes from illness
and death scenes, of which there are many, long drawn out. The overdone
manners of the era are parodied in drawing-room scenes borrowed from
Jane Austen and Oscar Wilde, scenes that are pleasingly comic but seem
more than a little contrived. Nixon reads some of the verse in
voice-over but the early efforts, celebrating Nature, are not in Walt
Whitman's league and only the later poems anticipating (almost
inviting) Death have any real resonance. It is for these that Emily
Dickinson is mostly remembered.

The cinematography is splendid, and the costumes and the over-
furnished sets convey a stifling sense of the period. A moment in which
portraits of the younger Dickinsons morph into their older selves is
exquisite and there's another nice one at the end. The script  and the
direction  struggle to make a mountain out of the molehill that was
Emily's life. I was constantly thinking how much more 'oomph' there is
in an Austen or a Brontë adaptation.
<|_=00=_|>
After the disappointment of of "Sunset Song" Terence Davies has made a
storming comeback with "A Quiet Passion", though it is quietude rather
than 'storming' that is most applicable. Expect nothing more or less
from Davies than more of the same, of course. Davies makes slow films
and "A Quiet Passion" is no different from anything else he has given
us nor would we want it to be. This time his subject is the poet Emily
Dickinson and this is easily one of the greatest of all period films.

Davies sketches Dickinson's life in a series of brush strokes from
rebellious youth to painful death in early middle-age through a series
of short, sharp conversation scenes, mostly with members of her own
family together with readings from her poetry and the detail he packs
into these scenes is extraordinary. He is helped in this by his
brilliant cast. What we have here is an ensemble performance of the
highest order; from the supporting cast it's almost impossible to
single anyone out though I doubt if either Keith Carradine or Jennifer
Ehle have ever been better while Cynthia Nixon is quite magnificent as
Dickinson.

Nothing she has done in the past quite prepares you for this; it's an
indelible performance as fine, indeed, as Gillian Anderson's in "The
House of Mirth" but then Davies has always been a great director of
women, going all the way back to "Distant Voices, Still Lives". Perhaps
this has something to do with his sexuality, perhaps not; perhaps his
being a gay man has nothing to do with anything, though one only has to
look to Cukor to see a connection.

He is also a remarkably fine writer with a perfect 'ear' for dialogue
regardless of the period in which his films are set. Of course, "A
Quiet Passion" won't light up the sky when it comes to the box-office.
This is a film for aficionados but anyone willing to embrace its
multitudinous charms will be amply rewarded. Personally, I think it's a
masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
"A Quiet Passion" from 2016 is a beautifully photographed and produced
film about Emily Dickinson, here played by Cynthia Nixon. Some may be
more familiar with the old Julie Harris vehicle about Dickenson, The
Belle of Amherst, which she performed on stage.

As a young woman, Dickinson attended a female seminary but ultimately
returned home to her family. She was very opinionated and rigid in her
beliefs and considered eccentric. She became more and more reclusive
and later on refused to leave her bedroom.

She wrote beautiful poetry, much of which was discovered after her
death.

Dickinson was a troubled woman, preoccupied with death and no doubt
suffered from depression which worsened over the years. She may have
also been agoraphobic.

The film, written and directed by Terence Davies was overly long, slow,
and boring, done in a pretentious manner. Someone who saw it the same
time as I did described it as "starched." It did not draw in this
viewer.

The acting was good, with Nixon doing a fine job as Emily and Jennifer
Ehle, whom many remember from the wonderful Pride & Prejudice some
years ago, gave a lovely performance as her sister Lavinia. Keith
Carradine played their father; he was excellent and inspired casting.

"A Quiet Passion" was obviously a labor of love for Davies and for
Nixon, and much care was taken with it. For me, it wasn't energized or
accessible enough to truly enjoy, which is a shame, as it was treated
too preciously.
