
Oh dear oh dear HAMMER..where do I start with this appalling bit of
unimaginative garbage. Lets says a few words for the actors because
they are the only good thing in the whole film. They struggle and
probably held back their laughter at some of the appalling lines that
had to be delivered, and Helen McCrory, why Helen why?? You're an
excellent actress especially on stage and you've severely wasted your
talent here, your reputation can only be damaged by agreeing to be in
this poor excuse for a film.

Did they dig up a BBC TV cinematographer who lit an episode of Dr Who
in the 1980's??? It was like a watching some lousy cheap xmas special
that was knocked out within few days and ZERO thought was given to
"atmospheric lighting", this is a meant to be a horror film, you have
to create atmosphere to keep the mood of the film, to keep an audience
scared, enthralled, intrigued, and most importantly make it look
COMMERCIAL, not light it in the style of below par art house knock off
for a personal showreel, having lens flares and portions of the frame
out of focus do not make you artistic DUMMY, they make you look
incompetent which this DOP is, did this person just sleep their way
through the project, did this silly DOP think for more than 5 minutes,
are they capable of one creative thought in their brain?? What on earth
is Hammer thinking when they are making a sequel to the biggest hit
they've had in years and they employ talentless unimaginative
incompetents like this?? 

Just look across the pond at the US horror films, some may be bad but
pretty much all of them at this budget level all look slick, moody,
atmospheric and COMMERCIAL not sub par art house. 

Now lets get on to the director, never heard of him before but again
this person shows such a deep lack of understanding of the horror genre
that you'd think he just stumbled on the set by accident from a heavy
night out and started directing this silly piece of nonsense. He keeps
using a scare technique that when you see it the first time you think
OK, not bad but then he goes on to repeat it about 11 times more, and
by the 11th time you think. PLEASE STOP, GET A CLUE! Along with the
useless DOP who probably dominated the director with their appalling
shots, this director was just walking through the production for the
pay check, hang your head in shame, this was a chance of taking the
franchise in new directions but its wasted by a lack of imagination of
the horror genre.

In summation, this film could have been so good but Hammer in their
haste to cash in have misfired and shot themselves in the foot,
backside and face.

A ROYAL STINKER, AVOID AT ALL COSTS!
<|_=00=_|>
. . . or the reinvention of Radio? That is the key question posed by
THE WOMAN IN BLACK 2: ANGEL OF DEATH. My eyesight is above average, and
I could barely make out 10% of the screen for the two-thirds of this
flick set at night. I know Hollywood's job is to cut every corner it
can, as movie props and scenery tend to cost more than those of
Broadway or Radio productions. However, my Multiplex screen was a 37
1/2-footer. So unless you have a 450-inch home entertainment or mobile
device, do NOT rent or stream ANGEL OF DEATH (except if you enjoy eye
strain). It seems as if most of this movie was shot with a black filter
(save for the daylight or dusk scenes, which alternated gray and brown
lens coverings). Novel as it is to experience 1890s film quality, those
flicks lasted two minutes at most. This is pretty hard to stand for 99
minutes straight. (For those who are Harry Potter Completists, Mr.
Radcliff is only present for this prequel in spirit, as one of the
film's final lines reads, "Harry's watching over us - - SHE can't come
back," the SHE referencing the witch Hermoldevort.)
<|_=00=_|>
I personally enjoyed the movie very much. It wasn't too scary but it
was interesting. If you like a ghost with a back story this is your
movie.. Also if you are a young lady a certain fellow is quite darling.
It also has a sort of interesting development of the main character as
you learn more about her.

This movie is not full of action or gore, in fact it's quite simple.
Though you are kept thoughtful and wondering. The movie is like a
puzzle and you are trying to figure out who lives and who will die. 

I loved it. I loved the year it was placed in and I loved the child
actors. But if you want a very enthralling horror movie, this is not
it. It's more of a mystery type with a little romance thrown in.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not quite sure why this is getting all the bad reviews that it is.
I went along tonight, expecting a creepy ghost story...and got a creepy
ghost story. Of course it repeats some elements of the first films, but
most sequels do. And no, it doesn't come over as such a "worthy" film
as the first one - but that's not such a bad thing. By having far more
characters within the film, it is in many ways more entertaining. There
are far less scenes of someone walking around the house with a candle
in this effort.

There are moments where the script does let the side down and it sinks
into cliché, which is a shame. But, on the whole, the direction is more
than serviceable and the acting is generally good. Jeremy Irvine is
rather wasted in a rather one-dimensional role, but he performs well
enough.

I'm not quite sure what people are expecting from a sequel such as
this. It does what it says on the tin, and there's nothing wrong with
that - and it's a damned sight better than many horror sequels that are
simply remakes of the first movie. Yes, it could have been better, but
it zips along quite briskly and yet still manages to pack a punch when
it needs to. Not bad at all.
<|_=00=_|>
I usually never write movie reviews but after watching this pathetic
excuse for a horror movie, I felt obliged to warn people. I mistakenly
went to see this movie even after reading all the bad reviews on here,
as I thought it couldn't possibly be all that bad and would at the very
least be a somewhat scary horror film. Boy was I wrong! There is
absolutely NOTHING scary at all about this movie. It relies completely
on out of context jump scares to get any kind of reaction from its
audience, which is nothing short of pathetic. The storyline is
ridiculous and nonsensical, the characters are stupid, as are their
actions, there is absolutely no creepy atmosphere or build up and at
the end, you don't give a crap what happens to anyone in the movie.
Even the hour and a half run- time is painful to sit through, you just
can't wait for it to end it is so uneventful and boring. The worst part
is that the jump scares come completely out of nowhere at times, there
isn't even a buildup so you don't even get scared. It's just a mild
shock and then nothing again. The woman in black herself isn't even
scary in this one. They really shouldn't have bothered and I feel
totally ripped off going to see this. There was no effort put into this
movie whatsoever, which is a shame as the first movie was decent and a
very effective horror. There is so much one (with talent) could do with
the premise, the woman in black character is scary and a child dying
every time someone sees her is a very creepy idea. An idea which they
forgot about until halfway through this movie. Please, please stay away
from this cliché ridden mess!!! This movie solely relies on constant
jump scares and creepy child ghosts (which didn't at all feature in the
first movie) in order to be scary and fails miserably on every level.
As a horror fan, it's a very sad time when horror (sequels) are now
being made without the horror with no effort whatsoever just to cash in
the original.
<|_=00=_|>
It's 1941 and London is in the grip of the blitz. Eve Parkins (Phoebe
Fox) and Jean Hogg (Helen McCrory) are taking a group of Children to
Eel Marsh house. On arrival, they are greeted at the Station by Dr
Rhodes (Adrian Rawlins). After voicing there concerns over the house's
suitability, Rawlings finally convinces them that there's no
alternative. 

That night, Eve's sleep is disturbed by a vivid nightmare about being
forced to give up her child years earlier. She also hears the sound of
a rocking chair coming from the basement and goes to investigate. There
on the wall is a message thats clearly disapproving of her giving up
her child. Then Eve momentarily sees a woman in the shadows....a woman
dressed in black. Jean thinks it's nonsense and accuses Eve of
frightening the children and tells her to keep her ghost stories to her
self. However, Eve does find someone who believes her, in the shape of
Harry Burnstow (Jeremy Irvine) the air force officer that she met on
the train. One of the children Edward (Oaklee Pendergast), hasn't spoke
a word since the death of his parents in a bombing raid. However, it
becomes apparent that Edward is being contacted, but by who and why
isn't clear.

The Woman in Black: Angel of Death is a dark, atmospheric movie, that
keeps faith with a lot of the qualities made famous during Hammer Films
hay day. The music and sound effects make the hair on the the back of
your hands stand on end. Oaklee Pendergast, is my stand out performance
and reminded me, in some aspects, of the young Damian Thorn in The
Omen. The movie is genuinely spooky, with a few genuine shocks. So if
you don't like your movies with a good sprinkling of jolts......give
this one a wide birth.
<|_=00=_|>
I have not scanned all the reviews, but in the case that that none have
praised the splendid set designs, I wish to do so here. It is evident
that much thought went into the sets and the props for this movie, just
like in the first; and I was completely convinced that I was seeing Eel
Marsh house and Crythin Gifford forty years after Arthur Kipps. The
dismal and melancholy atmosphere was much less in the sequel, but
perhaps this was because of the size of the cast. If Hammer would
undertake to produce remakes of the excellent BBC M.R. James stories, I
would welcome such enthusiastically. And if Susan Hill were to pick up
her pen again and weave another story involving remote and lonely
British locales, ruined or dilapidated houses, and nineteenth century
tragedies haunting the present day, I would be transported!
<|_=00=_|>
"The Woman in Black 2: Angel of Death" is terrible. Absolutely
terrible. I cannot believe that I spent 98 minutes of my life and that
the majority of people in that screen had paid money, money that they
had most likely WORKED AN HOUR FOR considering how most were round
about my age on such ABSOLUTE RUBBISH. Something that has the b******
to call itself a film. The guys who made that film must have been
laughing since its release on New Year's Day as much as Michael Bay did
when Transformers: Age of Extinction was the highest-grossing film of
2014. Anyway What really lets the film down is. NO F****** ANYWAY THIS
FILM IS SO BAD. The cast is terrible and so is the plot. Man. *sigh*. 

I quite enjoyed "The Woman in Black". It had a decent and proved plot,
as seen in the original success of the book with the same name written
by Susan Hill, and with the stage play, as well as a decent lead in the
form of Daniel Radcliffe in his first role since the "Harry Potter"
series. BUT, as I'm sure you've already noticed, I THOUGHT THIS FILM
WAS TERRIBLE. Such a let-down. The plot of this film is set in 1941 and
follows Eve Parkins (played by Phoebe Fox) and her stereotypically
stern boss Jean Hogg (played by Helen McCroy) as they are evacuated
along with a group of children up north to Eel Marsh House, where the
first film was set. Its promising at first but by the end of the film
nothings really happened? Where the plot is somehow possibly a little
bit better than terrible is where it introduces the concept that Eve
could turn into the Woman in Black or where we see Harry Burnstow
(played by Harry Irvine) stopping and having some sort of seizure
hallway down the road to Eel Marsh House which is a key plot aspect for
about half of the film. I was waiting to know what was wrong with
Harry. Was the Woman in Black having his way with him, morphing him
into some sort of sidekick? No. Of course not. BECAUSE THAT WOULD BE
GOOD. Instead, guess what? HE IS JUST SCARED OF WATER. THAT WAS A KEY
PLOT FOR HALF THE FILM! And this is just the first half of the film.
THE SECOND HALF IS TERRIBLE TOO. From Eel Marsh House to a fake RAF
airfield and then back to Eel Marsh House with a load of RUBBISH in
between. 

And guess what, that's all that seems to be between the cast members
ears. RUBBISH. It's what came out of their mouths too. The performances
AS YOU WOULD PROBABLY GUESS are also terrible. Everyone is TERRIBLE.
The only person I possibly liked was Harry. And that was only because I
had a bit of a man crush on him. I mean he was quite a cool pilot. OH
NO I MEAN RUNNER OF A FAKE AIRFIELD WHO IS SCARED OF WATER. There are
no characters. I didn't care about anyone. Man I mean I wanted Eve to
f****** die at the end. Man f*** that film. 

The film ultimately relies on jump scares throughout and although I am
extremely vulnerable to those there were only about 3 good ones in the
entire film and one of them was one of those false ones where this kid
with a F****** SAUCEPAN ON HIS HEAD OR SOMETHING DECIDED TO F******
SCREAM AT THE CAMERA. There was 1 that made me jump. And guess what? It
was one that was entirely unrelated to the plot with a little girl and
an old man just holding a finger to their mouths to the camera. You
know what the best bit of the film was? The END. Oh, and the bit where
one woman screamed out at a bit of wood falling in the background which
prompted the whole audience to burst out laughing. I feel sorry for
those who were involved with this film. It was just too bad. And man I
liked the first film. The reason I've given it two stars is because of
how the film does well to take make it look like it is 1941. But don't
worry because the cinematography is TERRIBLE. FOR F**** SAKE I COULDN'T
READ WHAT ONE OF THE MAIN CHARACTERS (who was mute) WAS WRITING DOWN
FOR THE ENTIRE FILM!

D***** I HAVE JUST REALISED I HAVE BEEN TRICKED INTO WASTING MORE OF MY
TIME ON THIS S***** FILM.
<|_=00=_|>
Slightly predictable ending and predicable plot features yet gripping
storyline and some good jumps. The storyline itself isn't scary, but
the occasional jumps and screams are what provide the horror effect.
Not an overall "scary" movie but good enough. The cinema had a scary
atmosphere but the first 15-20 minutes of the film are really dark and
hard to see, it might have just been our cinema but I had to squint and
really strain my eyes to see what was going on. This improved during
brighter scenes but the issue later returned during basement scenes. I
think having the "angel of death" concept emphasised more by killing
off more characters would have been effective. I also think that there
is not enough links to the first film. Good film in all, and unlike
other sequels, this is actual better than the first, but you know whats
coming in some scenes.
<|_=00=_|>
'THE WOMAN IN BLACK 2: ANGEL OF DEATH': Two and a Half Stars (Out of
Five)

The first movie of 2015 might actually be one of the worst. This
sequel, to the 2012 supernatural horror flick 'THE WOMAN IN BLACK'
(which stars Daniel Radcliffe), was directed by Tom Harper and written
by Jon Croker and Susan Hill (Hill also wrote the novel that the first
film was based on). It stars Phoebe Fox, Jeremy Irvine and Helen
McCrory and takes place 40 years after the events of the first movie,
during World War II. A group of schoolchildren are taken to the haunted
'Eel Marsch House' and terrorized by the angry ghost there. I like the
atmosphere and decent production values, of the film, but it's also a
complete bore.

The story begins in London, during the Blitz of WWII. A group of
schoolchildren are evacuated to the countryside by their headmistress,
Jean Hogg (McCrory), and her aid, Eve Parkins (Fox). They meet up with
an air raid warden, named Dr. Rhodes (Adrian Rawlins), who takes them
to the 'Eel Marsch House' to hide out in. They soon realize they're not
safe there either, as the ghost of Jennette Humfrye (Leanne Best), also
known as 'The Woman in Black', begins to haunt them. 

I enjoyed the first film, to a certain extent, but I wasn't overly
impressed by it either. This movie is even slower-paced and less
frightening. Like I said it looks good and has the right mood and
atmosphere for a decent supernatural thriller, but it never feels scary
and it isn't the least bit involving. It's not an amateurish or poorly
made film, really, but it is painfully dull (which is the worst crime a
movie can commit, in my opinion).

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/GZMz2QipSqQ
