
Wow! That was complete and utter rubbish. Can we please have it listed
under genres as Teen Romance / Brain Rot and not under the genre
Sci-fi, Action, Adventure as it is listed above. Are teenagers these
days all goldfish???, is this not the same plot as Twilight, Divergence
etc only replace vampires etc. with Aliens?. I love my apocalyptic
movies and after the first 20 minutes I thought it wasn't going so
bad... decent special effects, seeing what each "wave" was going to do
and I was looking forward to seeing "the others", but alas that was it
for the movie after that it was like opening a teen magazine while
jamming a skewer up my nose in to my brain.

I must say I did get a few laughs at the many clichés I called before
they happened followed by my swift exit to save my brain from rotting
by the absurd stupidity of it all. If you are not a girl aged 11 to 15
avoid this movie like you would avoid the plague
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand how this is getting any good ratings, I guess people
who benefit from it are the ones giving those ratings.

There is nothing interesting about this movie, the story is very flat
and everything is predictable. It is filled with illogical decisions
and the alien race, who is intelligent enough to come here and rule on
landing, has no clue what to do and how to do anything efficiently.

The so called waves are a fun given fact but make little sense. If if
an alien race would go with that, I am sure they could come up with a
more efficient 'wave' than to just infiltrate the human race. Their
drones seem to be having no use at all, other than flying from point A
to B. 

If an alien race has such technology and are in such dire need for
living space, I don't think they will go with such a slow and pretty
stupid method. They were already observing the earth for decades (if
not longer) so I am sure wave 3 could have been a lot more efficient.

Even setting all that aside, the movie is just one cliché event after
another. It's one of those movies you go watch if you have really,
really nothing else to do.
<|_=00=_|>
As a low-budget sci-fi flick, The Fifth Wave starts quite promisingly
with a more logical continuation from the opening scenes of
"Independence Day". The end of the world is nigh. An alien spacecraft
has put itself into a threatening earth orbit (note: actually
'orbiting' - as a nod to science guys like me - rather than just
inexplicably hanging there in the sky, as Douglas Adams once put it,
"in much the same way that bricks don't").

The aliens are throwing calamity after calamity down at small-town
America in 'waves': earthquakes; tidal surges; modified bird flu; and
bombings.

Against this stressful backdrop, the ever-reliable Chloe Grace-Moretz
("Kick Ass"; "Let the Right One In") plays Cassie who after getting
separated from her younger brother Sam (Zackery Arthur) faces the
dangers of a cross-country Alabama trek to rescue him.

Like I said, quite a promising premise, and it flows quite nicely until
the family get to a Fort Wilderness style sanctuary in the forest.
There however the plot goes awry, with the aliens making a seemingly
ridiculous strategic move.

Jaw-dropping dumbness now follows with a
'see-it-coming-from-a-mile-away' plot-twist casting Cassie onto her
solo-mission, and the film declines into a rather poor
'Hunger-maze-giance' wannabe with Cassie torn between the affections of
old crush Ben (Nick "Jurassic World" Robinson) and mysterious saviour
Evan (Alex Roe). Much muscle-rippling and skinny-dipping ensues as
Cassie oohs and aahs in a girlie fashion that erodes her kick-ass (no
pun intended) characterization to date.

The director is J Blakeson.... no, me neither. This is only his second
feature, and is a big ask.

The film rather obviously cues up a sequel: this is the first of a
series of  apparently quite good  books by Rick Yancey, with the next
in the series being called "The Infinite Sea". I don't think I will be
rushing to the cinema to see the sequel, if it does happen. 

A disappointing film that starts with real promise but then loses its
way. Grace-Moretz really does deserve better. Nice animated Gif poster
though!.

(Please visit http://bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical version of
this review, and to comment with your thoughts. Thanks).
<|_=00=_|>
When Earth is attacked by aliens, there is a sequence of waves of
destruction to annihilate the population. The aliens drain the energy
and create diseases and natural disasters. The teenager Cassie Sullivan
(Chloë Grace Moretz) moves with her family to the countryside, but when
her mother Lisa (Maggie Siff) dies, her father Oliver (Ron Livingston)
decides to go to a refugee camp with Cassie and her young brother Sam
(Zackary Arthur). Out of the blue, the army comes to the camp to
transfer the survivors to a military base. They transfer the children
first but Cassie misses the bus where Sam is. She learns that the in
the 5th wave, the aliens have assumed the human form and she witnesses
the military executing the civilians in the camp including her father.
She flees and now she begins her quest to find Sam. Meanwhile the
teenagers and children are trained by the military to fight the enemy.
But how to know who is human and who is alien?

"The 5th Wave" is a teen adventure with a silly and illogical story and
a shallow romance. The plot has an interesting beginning but
unfortunately becomes terrible. The idea of using the teens and
children to destroy the survivor is totally absurd. My vote is five.

Title (Brazil): "A 5ª Onda" ("The 5th Wave")
<|_=00=_|>
"The 5th Wave" is the umpteenth version of a post-apocalyptic scenario
that has all but taken over pop-culture since the turn-of-the-century
(or, more specifically, the attacks on 9/11). In this case, it's a race
of mysterious aliens who, in an effort to take over the planet, are
eliminating humans one "wave" at a time (destroying the power grid,
creating massive earthquakes and tsunamis, spreading fatal epidemics,
etc.). The screenplay focuses primarily on one Ohio family, and,
specifically, their teenage daughter, Cassie (Chloe Grace Moretz), who
suddenly has to find ways of surviving in this new and dangerous world
where everyone is out for him- or herself and, thus, no one can be
trusted.

As they pass through desolate, auto-strewn landscapes that look like
they came straight out of "The Walking Dead," Cassie and a caring (and
dreamy) stranger (Alex Roe) - who saves her life at one point and
rehabilitates her to full health - go in search of her missing little
brother. And, speaking of TWD, since the movie can't fit any ACTUAL
zombies into its narrative, it partially compensates by at least having
a character NAMED "Zombie" (Nick Robinsons).

Ah well, after a few moments of fleeting interest in the early stages,
the movie quickly settles into a predictable and boring series of teen
drama, alien invasion and end-of-the-world tropes. 

And with its open-ended conclusion, we're left wondering (or is it
dreading?) if there will be a 6th wave in our movie-going future.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, just to be clear. I have watched some terrible films all the way
through to the end, and for the sake of the time and effort it took to
make the film gave those films lots of leeway. Then came the 5th wave.
This (at first) was a new take on alien invasion movies, and I have to
admit I got fooled. Nothing was fresh. Everything re-hashed, and
patched together like a bad last minute Thanksgiving dinner. So bad it
wasn't worth staying for. Even worse... this film is predictable. Like
a bowl of cold lumpy oatmeal. It's going to be unpleasant, and you
already know how it's going to end up. Not sure why, but I have serious
reservations about the Earth being saved by anyone in High School. The
effects in this film are tired, as was the acting. The situations were
even more ridiculous. I mean ask yourself seriously, are you (even for
a second) going to wander off or away from your family to get a stuffed
toy? It's the end of the world, suck it up. So yeah, if you're tougher
than myself, stick it through to the end. I didn't last 30 minutes and
I already know how it ended up.
<|_=00=_|>
We had The Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candles, St Elmo's Fire, The Goonies
to name but a few. Defining moments in movies, defining teenage angst,
growing pains and young love and loves lost. Films that stand up today,
not just for nostalgia's sake but because of solid acting, amazing
characters and good stories.

I despair for the drivel that our millennial's have to endure today in
the name of cinema. If you've grown up on good films through the years
then you want to avoid The Fifth Wave. Encourage your young-lings to
watch something else.

Chloe maybe a good actress, but she couldn't drag the film from the
mire of this cliché driven plot line with shallow characters and an
awfully banal story of an alien plot to take over the Earth in as
seemingly clueless manner as possible.
<|_=00=_|>
The 5th Wave is based on the book of the same name and it's main focus
is on a girl reconnecting with her brother. It's a tried and true story
for the post-apocalyptic genre and doesn't do anything really cool with
it except for the title. The title of the film plays into the "twist"
in the film, if you can even call it that and it's about the only thing
that it does a little differently.

Nothing too bad on the acting side. There's no Oscar winning
performances but everybody does a decent job with the crap dialogue
they are given. Except the kid... He just stares all the time, looking
dumbfounded. Must have been a way to keep people from calling him "The
annoying kid." 

The film looks good in it's presentation. The choreography in the fight
scenes is a bit exaggerated but I enjoyed that. What is does so wrong
is the absolute straight 'teen angst novel' scenes and relationships.
The books suffered from this too and I feel it could have been made to
be a bit more serious to kind of adult up the series and make it fit
with a wider audience.

Overall it is a bad adaption of an average book. It alienates everyone
over the age of 12 by making it way too much like the novel and not
trying to change up some of the things it needed to.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. Yet another steaming pile of Hollywood garbage filled with thin
white "good looking" people instead of actors. 

If it weren't for some huge writing flaws like gaping holes in logic,
super flimsy character development, completely unnecessary romantic
"tension" crowbarred-in and the aforementioned
models-where-actors-should-be trope, the idea and story could have been
pretty cool.

I was actually looking forward to seeing this movie, but honestly just
had to force myself through from about the half hour mark.

Adding insult to injury is the very obvious set up for what the film
makers are most likely hoping will be two or more sequels.

Twilight, but aliens. Not even cool or scary aliens. Just lame,
romantic aliens. Or incognito aliens. Huge yawn.
<|_=00=_|>
For the first time i am writing a review for a movie. If you are not
under 15 years old you should stay away from this movie because its
just a really bad movie with some visual effects. The movie was looking
good at first 10 minutes but after that everything in the movie started
to seems stupid. Ending scene was the worst part of it. Scenario and
most of the scenes in the movie is just disaster.
