
If #TheMummy is supposed to be the beginning of Universal's ambitious
Dark Universe that showcases their classic monsters in one big shared
cinematic crossover, then they're off to a terrible start.

There's probably only a couple of sequences that somewhat thrill, the
rest are just a continuous string of one poorly written, poorly acted
and poorly executed scene after another. It feels more like sitting in
a dentist's waiting room as opposed to rockin' on a roller coaster
ride. And Tom Cruise is just wrong for this role, a huge case of
miscast. Perhaps they should just press the reboot button again.

Sofia Boutella plays an evil ancient princess imprisoned in a tomb deep
beneath the unforgiving desert. When a couple of treasure hunters and
an archaeologist awaken her in our present day, she returns to life to
reclaim her destiny while at the same time unleashing unimaginable
terrors in this new take that ushers in a new world of gods and
monsters. Co-starring Tom Cruise, Annabelle Wallis, Russell Crowe and
Jake Johnson, directed by Alex Kurtzman.

The concept of what the writers and director Alex Kurtzman is trying to
present to us with "The Mummy" is nothing new, in fact it's quite
predictable, but the biggest problem about it is that along the way
from point A to point B, they fill it in with moments that just don't
work. And it gets even more frustrating when they bring it up again the
second, third and fourth time as if shoving it down our throats would
make it better. The jokes fall flat so much so you kinda feel sorry for
Jake Johnson who clearly wants to make some effort as this film's comic
relief. There are also parts that are just absolutely pointless and
unnecessary. The characters including Dr. Jekyll frequently draw
conclusions out of their butts. I do think "The Mummy" is what happens
when the story is forced to serve the visual spectacle instead of the
other way around. That said, rising star Sofia Boutella is a marvelous
choice, she exudes that thirst for power effortlessly in addition to
being incredibly seductive.

But of course, just as expected, instead of it being a movie about
Sofia Boutella's The Mummy, it becomes all about Tom Cruise, who as I
said earlier is just awfully wrong for this role. I understand that the
studios probably think that banking on a A-lister would translate into
box office results, but fact of the matter is outside "Mission:
Impossible" franchise, Cruise just doesn't fit anywhere else anymore.
The character that he plays here is is a thieving treasure hunter, much
like Nathan Drake from "Uncharted" games, but all you see on the screen
instead is special agent Ethan Hunt desperately trying to be someone
he's not. By the end of "The Mummy" you're going to have second
thoughts about anticipating the next installment of this Dark Universe,
and you're going to want to wish Brendan Fraser had still been around.

-- Rama's Screen --
<|_=00=_|>
"The Mummy" is the first movie in what Universal Studios wants to call
their "Dark Universe." Yeah, that's right. Those re-shoots that 2014's
"Dracula Untold" went through to tie into a Dark Universe; those don't
matter now. That 2010 Benicio del Toro "Wolfman" movie; also doesn't
matter. 

In a world where Universes are becoming more and more of a thing,
Universal seems determined not to let this monster mash-up of The
Wolfman, Dracula, Frankenstein, Mummy, Dr. Jekyll and Mr Hyde and more
slip through their fingers. 

And they're also not skimping out on finding A-list talent to help sell
the whole thing. So far we've heard Johnny Depp, The Rock, and Javier
Bardem's names being thrown into the mix, plus Russell Crowe is already
here as Dr. Jekyll. 

That last one I think is really cool by the way because while so many
others have been portrayed by the likes of Gary Oldman and Jack
Nicholson's, Jekyll's best portrayal in the past 20+ years has been
ughÂ….David Hasselhoff. 

But now let's talk about "The Mummy", specifically that old trilogy
with Brendan Fraser. There's no doubt director Stephen Sommers lucked
out with that first film and there's also little doubt Universal wants
to move away from that overall cheesiness here. The question is can
they still go serious but also have fun at the same time?

And say what you will about Sommers; the guy was a C-grade filmmaker
who got a kick out of a cheap thrill but at least you could say he
committed to it. This new Mummy is just a wrong-headed disaster. 

The set-up is pretty much the same as the older Mummy film although
here it's a woman played by "Kingsman's" Sofia Boutella. She's Ahmanet,
an Egyptian Princess who wanted power, sold out to some powerful entity
for eternal life, and paid for it by getting entombed.

Universal of course is also putting it's faith in Tom Cruise, who plays
an Army Vet prone towards treasure hunting. He and several others find
Ahmanet's sarcophygus but while bringing it back to be examined, the
plane goes down over London and a bunch of strange things happen that
they learn can't just be coincidence. 

This is Cruise just being Cruise here. He gets to run around a lot
doing his "intense face" all while an attractive woman half his age is
along with him for the sexual interplay (more on her in a moment).
Yeah, there's discussion about his character growing something of a
conscience as this goes on but it's pretty perfunctory.

Plus having the Mummy be a woman after Cruise's body so she could plant
her demon God inside of him and they can reign as King and Queen; this
seems more like it falls into being of one of Cruise's aging vanity
projects than on acting skill. 

Boutella gets very little to do otherwise but try and be seductive
while waving her hands in a threatening manner. Otherwise auto-tune
does the rest. 

The Cruise character's love interest is an archaeologist played by
Annabelle Wallis who looks like she just stepped out from a Paris
fashion show into an archaeological dig. Did I believe her as an
archaeologist? No. Did I believe she could spell it? Sure. Either way,
it doesn't matter. What does is that she and Cruise are DOA in their
scenes together. 

No character makes much impression here, including Crowe's Dr. Jekyll
who's maybe in the film for 20 minutes to explain stuff so simplistic,
silly, and predictable that it hardly needs explaining at all before
the film rushes through his particular ailment. 

For some reason screenwriters David Koepp and Christopher McQuarrie
think more explanation is still warranted though and in that they
couldn't be more wrong. For something trying to feel new, it's
remarkably easy to tell where all this is going. 

Their biggest crime is what they do to New Girl's Jake Johnson, a funny
actor who they turn into the Dark Universe's version of Jar Jar Binks
in only five minutes. He comes in and out of the film at really odd
intervals, either screaming dialogue in the hope of making it funny or
giving us yet more exposition we don't really need. 

Add to that first time action director Alex Kurtzman is a disaster. The
action sequences look haphazardly thrown together, just cartoonish and
unbelievable, while a spoiler I won't give away about the Tom Cruise
character makes them even harder to give a crap about anyway. 

The fights are stiff and uninteresting, and the special effects are
either forgettable or look just as hokey as they did in the Brendan
Fraser movies. The plane sequence we saw in the trailer looks pretty
decent but hey, you've already seen the most decent thing in the movie,
why pay to see the rest. 

Overall this is not just a bad film, but a film that has no idea what
it even is. It wants to resurrect classic monsters, but isn't the least
bit scary. It wants to take it in original directions, but winds up
being an ultra-serious, dull version of the 1999 film. It's silly but
not funny, it's a lot of commotion but no excitement, it's a Mummy
movie that if the ending of this can even be believed, thinks it's
something totally different. This is a worse start to a Universe than
King Arthur was. 

If you liked this, check out more of Craig James Review on Youtube
<|_=00=_|>
There was literally nothing to enjoy in this movie. Cheesy, hollow
writing is rarely delivered better by A-List actors. 

This is the first DARK Universe film, and there's nothing dark about
it. It's hokey without having classic charm.

There is this thing about Dr Jekyll that is beyond hilarious, but not
to the film's benefit.

The unintentional hilarity of this film is it's greatest aspect. But
will anyone say this was a great movie?? Not if they've ever seen the
Brandon Fraser films. Brandon was funny, even with bad lines. Tom can't
pull it off, it's just too bad and he's too.. A-list for it.

Gonna have to re-watch the 2001 Mummy to push back the memories of Dark
Universe's The Mummy.

If you're gonna brand yourselves as dark, make something EVIL. Jeez.
<|_=00=_|>
The Mummy has had countless iterations of the character grace the
screen for the better part of the 20th Century. With the 1932 original
and the fun but lazy 1999 remake and anything in between, we pretty
much got it. It can be scary or it can be action packed as it seems
Hollywood has left there to be no in between for this type of film.
Unfortunately neither of those extremes apply to this one. The Mummy is
a pandering and very meager attempt at cashing in on a potential
franchise. It's sad to watch because it feels like the studio made
this. This doesn't feel organic in any way, shape or form and relies on
CGI filled action sequences, Tom Cruise, and cheap scares that end up
being unintentionally funny to progress the story. None of which comes
off the way it should.

The story is absolute crap to put it as lightly as I can. It is plotted
so on-the-nose that you can't have anything left up to your imagination
except for some scenes of violence that may have been too much for a
PG-13. Outside of that, everything is spoon fed to us as the audience.
Instead of making you feel like you can keep up, the movie treats its
audience like we are stupid and still expects us to continue watching.
Honestly, I almost walked out at certain points, it got that bad.
Especially during the scenes with Crowe's Jekyll, which are so heavily
plot oriented that you can't get a feel for his character and when you
get the chance to, it fails, crashes and burns.

The cast is surprisingly strong on paper but director Alex Kurtzman
fails to utilize them in roles that best suit them. Tom Cruise is
really the only cast member that fits the part which, when considering
what genre we're talking about here, is a horrible thing. Courtney B
Vance, who delivered an awards caliber performance in American Crime
Story, is watered down to nothing more than a mere walk on role.
Russell Crowe is so obviously doing the film for the paycheck, it feels
like he isn't even acting and he is just reading queue cards. 

As a fan of the cast and the 1932 original, I was left completely
disappointed by everyone here. Director Alex Kurtzman, who went from
directing a small indie to all of a sudden directing this big bombastic
action summer blockbuster, feels out of his element here and misses the
beats of a good action movie and completely neglects everything that
could make a great horror film. The Mummy is by far one of the worst
blockbusters in recent memory and stands as a major misfire for
Universal's Dark Universe and Tom Cruise.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a good start for the rebooting of the Universal Dark Universe,
if you're expecting a remake of the 1990's Mummy films then you've got
the wrong idea. The first thing you should know is that this has
NOTHING to do with those movies and are completely unrelated. This is a
re-imagining of Mummy's Hand (1940) that started the Mummy series of
movies but with a whole new agenda. This time Universal are making
these films to link in with all their other monster movies,
Frankenstein, Dracula, The Wolfman etc so comparing it with any other
Mummy film before it like the critics keep doing is utterly pointless. 

The movie is a high entertaining fantasy horror film, its not the
glossy action comedy level of the Brendan Fraser films, its darker and
a lot more violent but still full of spectacle and a decent amount of
humour that doesn't completely dominate the dramatic content as many
film allow these days. Only Disney's Goofy or Loony Toon's Wild E
Coyote can take the level of battering Tom Cruise gets in this movie
and still stay standing. The Mummy is an exotic beauty who can hit like
a Mack Truck. There are elements reminiscent of An American Werewolf in
London (1981) and Lifeforce (1985) that forge this version of the Mummy
and Russell Crowe's Dr Jekyll makes his glorified entrance half way
through to remind you this is a shared monster universe so expect more
of the same.

Quite simply you either like this sort of stuff or you don't, if you
listen to critics they'll convince you this is the worst movie ever
made, it's not. It's actually really good fun and nothing more, it
won't suddenly change your life and have you buying movie merchandise
like a Star Wars film or Marvel franchise flick but it will entertain
you if you're not already going into the cinema armed with a critical
gun ready to shoot it down for daring to star Tom Cruise like the
average Hollywood critic and their anti-Tom Cruise agenda.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never written a movie review before, but after seeing this one I
just had to, I was so disappointed. I was a kid when the previous Mummy
series came out, and those movies were infinitely more
interesting/entertaining. Its a huge disappointment because this film
falls apart for several reasons:

Story- Cursed Egyptian princess is awoken after 5,000 years. Okay,
awesome. Has all the same powers as previous incarnation, Imhotep
(controlling sands, super strength, animating corpses, etc.). Okay,
cool- could've been a little more creative/ original, but okay. You
cast Sofia Boutella as the new Mummy- super awesome (I'd never even
heard of her before this movie and now I'll probably go see everything
else she's ever in).

And then the best the writers come up with is that the endgame for such
a powerful entity would be... to just summon a more powerful entity
than her into existence? Way to drop the ball- someone should be fired
for that hack job. The potential was there to make Ahmanet an
infinitely interesting character ( Sofia Boutella's seductive charm
alone has you routing for Ahmanet half the movie) but they reduce her
to an eye-candy role, writing her to literally need Tom Cruise's body
to do what she has set out to do (not even going to delve into that
ridiculousness). At least when they wrote Imhotep in the previous
incarnation, it made sense in that his motivations were his own power,
not someone else's.

And that's without even touching on the rushed backstory for Ahmanet,
or the fact that there is really no development in the relationships
between the characters nor the characters themselves.

Action- Its like they somehow took all the iconic scenes from the
previous incarnation and made them awful. The Mummy absorbing people's
life force. The images when the mummy is controlling the sands. The
chase/escape scenes. Not only were none of these concepts elaborated
on, they somehow managed to make them less interesting this time
around, too. If you don't believe me, go back and watch the 1999
version.

Cast- This is probably the most egregious problem with this movie, and
its very disappointing because it wasn't all bad. Russel Crowe as Dr.
Jekyll? Brilliant. Absolutely awesome portrayal of the Jekyll/Hyde
characters delivered masterfully. Previously mentioned Sofia Boutella
as the Mummy? What a perfect choice for the role. Even Jake Johnson's
Sgt. Vail would've been good if the writing had been better. But 54
year old Tom Cruise as the lead? Embarrassing. Say what you will about
Brendan Fraser, but in 1999 he had hit his stride and was funny and
charming. He was also in his 30's and much more believable as a
treasure-hunting action star. There's no point in even talking about
the casting choice of Annabelle Wallis, because her presence might as
well have been non-existent after the scene where she slaps Tom Cruise
in the face (you know, right at the beginning). The writing didn't make
it believable that she is an archaeologist, and the performance isn't
memorable in the slightest. Especially if we're comparing that to 1999
Rachel Weisz's Evie who was a dream-babe.

And even without the comparisons, if the two most
interesting/compelling characters in your hero-saves-world action movie
are A) a character who had all of 10-15 minutes of screen time, and B)
the main antagonist, then you did something way wrong.

All in all this was a sad attempt to reboot an awesome story which had
great potential- a solid frame of reference in the previous
incarnation, a darker, more dramatic/less goofy tone, and almost 2
decades in updates to CGI/special effects which could have made for
much more compelling supernatural/action scenes- but it was squandered
with terrible writing and awful casting which lead to hollow
performances.
<|_=00=_|>
Disappointed...no real story line, predictable events, and choice of a
particular character line was lame... Lots of holes in the story...
Story jumped all over without real connections to plot... Characters
lacked depth... Would have liked to have seen more actual references to
Ancient Egypt that would have made the story line more believable. Not
a movie I would see again...
<|_=00=_|>
"Dead is just the beginning", right? In this case it might be the
beginning of the end of the world of gods and monsters. I have been
dwelling on how to review this movie as I want to be fair but I don't
want to mislead you.

I will start by saying that Sofia Boutella nails the character of
Princess Ahmunet, she is truly a goddess with of course an ancient
course that she brought upon herself, but her character is so likable
you actually end up rooting for the ultimate evil, Boutella brings a
charisma to the mummy that it is hard to match.

My biggest fear going in was Russell Crowe as doctor Henry Jekyll and
his other persona, Mr Edward Hyde, but the actor gives the performance
of his lifetime as both characters and his seedy organization, which is
truly as evil and ruthless as the "monsters" they chase. And this is
how I like my "heroes", men or groups that for the common "good" are
willing to become monsters themselves, it makes for an interesting
plot.

Here's where things go sideways: Tom Cruise, yes I said it. Nick Morton
is an amalgamation of Rick O'Connell of the Brendan Fraiser movies and
Ethan Hawk from M:I. His character lacks charisma and his romance with
Jenny (Annabelle Wallis) is less than believable. It borders in a cheap
Fabio novel paper back, the movie would have been much better without
Tom Cruise and Nick Morton.

Here's where things go bad: The special effects, last year I hammered
Ghostbusters for their "Scooby-like" CGI and it pains me as I have to
do the same here, the CGI was awful, seriously! 

When a TV Show like Game of Thrones can have great FX there is
absolutely no excuse to have a big franchise movie, the start of one
had FX so incredibly awful, they looked like a freaking cartoon. That
seriously killed the movie.

There are a couple of good scenes but I have to say sadly that the Dark
Universe is dead, or at least it should be.

My rating is 6 out of 10, and I'm being nice.

Welcome to a new world of meh...
<|_=00=_|>
Disappointing. A few good visuals, but hardly any story. The plot: an
ancient mummy gets a new lease of life. The actress playing the mummy
is quite good but Tom Cruise and Russell Crowe are awful. They play
themselves and most of the time seem half-hearted and bored,just going
through the motions to get a pay check. Lucky my vote is a generous:
3/10.
<|_=00=_|>
No Brendon Fraiser, no stars. Enough with the remakes already. Remakes
Remakes are not well made these days.Gohstbusters, Fantastic Four,
Total Recall, shoot now they are even thinking about remaking
Flatliners and Overboard. These were great movies that did not need to
be remade and degraded. Please have an original thought Hollywood, is
it too much to ask for? Anyway. It was a forgettable film that should
be lost in the dust.
