
I feel like sometimes great movies don't get enough recognition, films
like Prisoners, Enemy, or Predestination. 

This film impacted me heavily, and it kept me thinking and thinking
about it for a week after I saw it. Ethan Hawke gave a great
performance, which keeps me wondering why he ever agreed to do "The
Purge", but the real standout is Sarah Snook, who is breathtaking in
her role.

One of the best things about this film was that when I thought it was
going in one direction, it took a hard right hand turn. Not many movies
make me doubt myself like that. The direction was clean and solid, the
cinematography was immaculate, and the special and visual effects were
outstanding. Everything about the look of the film was perfect.

My only complaints are that the movie's first act was a little slow.
However, as the film progresses into the second and third act, the long
first act is absolutely necessary. If it was a little shorter, it
would've worked so well. 

Confusing? Yes. Enjoyable? Big time. 

If you can see Predestination, definitely do so. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is not just classic sci-fi it is almost a classic Greek play:
Fateful and tragic. That's the parting feeling. But it delivers so many
genres on any level you care to enjoy it. To me the strength of this
film is the charactersevery day people like ourselvesseeing
themselves in an extraordinary light. As time-travel stories go there
are none of the paradoxes of other such films to frustrate you. The
elegant, thought-provoking symmetry of the original short story is
respected beautifullybut hats off to the directors for expanding it
into a study of human self-identity. In my opinion the best sci-fi only
uses fantasy (within the realms of possibility) to explore humanity in
ways that a grounding in known reality cannot, and this film offers
viewers a 'what if' so believably presented they can put themselves in
that situation and question themselves in a way they normally never
would. The only paradox here is the very real inescapable self of all
of us and yet being so many different people throughout our lives. You
will benefit from seeing this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Sadly I had to travel to an old and tiny cinema to see this movie as it
didn't play in the major cinemas on the Gold Coast...after watching
this movie i have absolutely no clue why.

I truly enjoyed every minute of this film, all of the actors did a
great job, especially Ethan Hawk. I did see some of the plot lines
coming and still got a bit of a surprise in how they delivered those
plot lines...if you get a chance and like a sci-fi with brains then go
and watch this!!!

I would definitely not compare it to looper (just to add to the end)
yes looper and predestination are about time travel, but thats were it
ends... :)
<|_=00=_|>
"Predestination" is an incredibly original and creative film, employing
what may seem like 'common' aspects of the science-fiction genre, and
putting a darker, grimmer twist on them. Time travel is handled quite
well in this Australian film, focusing less on the effects of
travelling back (and forth) in time than other sci-fi films.
"Predestination" uses decidedly odd pacing, beginning with a 'bang' and
following that up with almost an hour of subdued plot. But oddly
enough, these moments of -almost- pure dialogue and occasional
flashbacks never become boring, but rather deepen the film's characters
and their back-stories. The cast performances are what really make this
movie 'shine'. Ethan Hawke, as usual, delivers an almost flawless
performance as the unnamed lead, and Sarah Snook, an Australian
newcomer, surprises with her wide range of acting abilities. Overall,
the third feature film by the Spierig Brothers is a surprisingly
original, daring, and genre-bending film.
<|_=00=_|>
A must watch for anyone who enjoys a mind bending, soul imploding film.
Although the first scene is action packed, not much is understood as to
the who's and why's. After that, and for only a few minutes, the movie
seemed slow and without direction. Soon after it becomes intriguing,
suspenseful, and where the direction of the film is going (although not
yet understood). The Director was able to clearly explain the
unexplainable at the very end of the movie. So, for those that
sometimes walk out of a movie not understanding what happened, I can
assure you that will not be the case here. I give many kudos to the
original writing, screen writing, directing, and acting. This movie
will be ranked as one of my all time best films ever.
<|_=00=_|>
it's been a while since i've been this satisfied with a movie, it's
compelling, thought provoking and extremely clever film that keeps you
guessing to the last frame.

excellent storytelling thanks for the great work from the
directors/writers despite the low budget they pulled out a great movie
with good production values, sets, costumes and special effects.

powerhouse performances from the two leads Ethan Hawke as usual is a
very serious actor though he haven't been in any good movies in the
past few years but you can see that he's making a comeback with this
one as well as this years magnificent BOYHOOD but his performance in
PREDESTINATION is a very strong one because he had to handle such a
very complicated character, same thing goes for Sarah Snook.

the less i say about the plot the better, this is the kind of movies
where you have focus throughout the whole runtime of it trying to
figure out where is it going and any detail that you miss might ruin
the whole experience for you but hey don't worry there's an explanation
for everything here. 

this movie is one of this years' personal favorites as well as the
indie of the year so far (still have to see BIRDMAN).
<|_=00=_|>
Anyone who loves mindfuck movies and movies incredibly hard to
understand at the end, will love this one. The beginning seems kinda
weird, and what the director does with the beginning is planting a seed
of thought into the minds of the viewers, i bet you 10 people will have
10 different outcomes thought through while watching the movie from the
start. The plot twists and the originality of the movie were fantastic,
haven't seen anything quite like that in a movie. The fact that all the
movies main characters, except Robinson is the same person is hard to
believe and extremely well thougth through and displayed for the
viewers. Were else have you seen a movie which can lead to you having
sex with you, giving birth to you, then bringing yourself back to 1963
to break up the relationship between yourself and yourself and taking
yourself as a baby back in time and toping it all by killing yourself?
Awesome plot, great idea and something very original and amusing.
<|_=00=_|>
Twisty, turny and mind-bending, one viewing won't be enough for this
time travelling head scratcher. Two plots  one revolving around Ethan
Hawke's temporal agent seeking to stop a terrorist, the other following
the life of a precocious orphan who isn't quite like everybody else 
are intricately and intelligently woven together to not only build
tension but to explore provocative themes to spoiler-y to mention here.
In fact, Predestination is one of those movies its hard to say much of
anything about. It's such a meticulously drip-fed thriller  slowly and
superbly unravelling as each and every minute of the runtime ticks on 
that the real joy here is unwrapping and grasping (or attempting to any
rate) what it is you're actually witnessing. In his second
collaboration with Aussie filmmakers the Spierig Brothers, Hawke is in
career-best form as the veteran time traveller on the brink of burning
out, whilst relative newcomer Sarah Snook (born and bred South
Australian) is outstanding in a complex and demanding role that has
rightly grabbed the attention of Hollywood. The Spierig's also
demonstrate their diversity in both the writing and directing
departments, going from the enjoyable but tonally lightweight
splatter-fest Daybreakers to this altogether more mature, thematically
heavy and narratively elaborate sci-fi saga that still manages to
maintain a high excitement level. This year's Looper or Inception.
<|_=00=_|>
Interesting and captivating with a new twist to the classic formula.
Great cinematography and excellent acting contribute to this refreshing
Sci-Fi/Time Travel film.

Rising actress Sarah Snook with a stellar performance is backed by
solid performances of both Hawke and Taylor. 

Such movies usually suffer from failed attempts at originality and
complexity boarding on confusion. This movie avoids both by not trying
to surprise and shock the viewer but rather act more as a mystery novel
- unfolding with precision, letting the viewers participate in the
events and discoveries to come. Much like a good old Agatha Christie
book would successfully do.

The Spierig brothers keep getting better with each movie and this is a
great step forward in what seems to be a promising career.

There is nothing new under the Time Travel sun but the delivery is
excellent which makes this movie worth watching - at least twice, as
any good Time Travel movie requires.
