
This is probably one of the best movies I've seen. Okay, disagree with
me, but hear me out first. I've never understood the desire for
children. I don't know why people have kids. And nobody, not even my
own parents, have been able to explain to me why. But this film
inspired me to become a father one day. 

I laughed. It brought me tears three times. I walked away from that
movie feeling satisfied, warm, and with a whole new outlook on life.
Don't go into this movie expecting the comedy or the drama or the story
of the year, because you're not going to get that. What you are going
to get is an enjoyable film that will make you smile. And that's truly
all that matters. This film is full of love and what it means, and I
left loving this film and loving and understanding the desire to have
children. 

-Jackson
<|_=00=_|>
When David (Vince Vaughn) finds out he's the father to 533 children
through donations he made to a fertility clinic 20 years ago, he learns
that a fraction of them want to meet him. Against the advice of her
lawyer best friend Brett (Chris Pratt), and while trying to mend the
relationship he has with his girlfriend Emma (Cobie Smulders), David
decides to set out and see how his children turned out. Along the way
he starts to find himself waist deep in the situation.

Based on his original French film Starbuck, director Ken Scott brings
his original film in American form. The film starts out with some nice
comedic moments from Vince Vaughn's character playing the typical
immature adult. However, it gradually shifts gears into a more
sentimental film. As we watch David interact with his children, often
ranging from some comical moments with them, but then we get the
genuine and sincere moments where we see David begin to open his eyes
to the world. From the outside, the film looks like some average
comedy, but in the long run it runs so much more deeper and sentimental
than that. 

While at first glance, it would appear Vince Vaughn plays the typical
character he always plays, but as the film progresses we start to see
him take a more serious side that we rarely see from him. It is a major
treat to see him interact with some of the youngsters who play his
children. When Vaughn has to express his sentimental side, he really
nails it. It makes you wish he would do more roles that require this
type of range. Apart from his serious moments, Vaughn also has fun
chemistry with Chris Pratt who plays his best friend. Their
relationship is really believable and they have some good and funny
moments together. Pratt on his own provides a lot of the major comic
relief in the film, even though we find his character has his own
troubles he has to deal with. 

Delivery Man definitely earns a ranking as one of the surprise
feel-good films of the year. It will have you laughing and by the end
it can leave you with tears of joy and a smile on your face. 

My Rating: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly I will start by saying I am a huge comedy fan!, I have seen
pretty much every major and a lot of indie comedies in the last decade.
I have seen a lot of Vince Vaughn films and have to say I am not a big
fan of his, he sometimes shines like in the Internship, but mainly is a
stiff, one dimensional actor who delivers wooden performances.

His last film as I said was totally enjoyable, so I was open to seeing
this as I thought maybe he has turned a corner and hell was I right!.
He shows comedy timing brilliance and shows the one thing I have rarely
seen from Vaughn... Emotion.

This film is as funny as it is deep! it is a joy to watch and is also
just strangely gripping in a way most comedies do not succeed. He is an
endearing character chasing his 500 odd children and most bring flashes
of hilarity whilst the rest bring a nice emotional warmth.

You will definitely enjoy this film, after poor comedy outings such as
this is the end, bad grandpa and the diabolical grown ups 2 this will
restore faith that there will be some genuinely funny films that don't
rely to much on swearing, sex and unnecessary shock humour such as
casual racism and sexism.

Enjoy and prepare to laugh and say awwww until the film leaves you
feeling like you've finally after a few months seen a truly great
comedy film again.

If this is the standard Vaughn is now setting then I cant wait for the
next one!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Coming into this movie I expected a hard core comedy full of Chris
Pratt puns and Vince Vaughn One liners, but after watching this movie I
saw it as something else. Vince Vaughn just blows it out the waters
with an actually heart felt performance, This isn't just a sly comedy
but a heart felt family drama where one ordinary man has to come to
terms with an unordinary situation and Vaughn does it well and with
great help from his co-stars. Definitely worth at least one watch, if
not for Vince Vaughn then definitely watch it for Chris Pratt because
even if this movie isn't just a straight odd ball comedy it's
definitely got it's funny moments and all mostly revolving around Chris
Pratt and his Attorney at Law bit.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't believe the genre and go into this one thinking its a comedy.
Yes, the premise that a person could actually donate sperm so many
times and the number of kids to whom he now is the biological father is
kinda funny. But, apart from a few scenes that are really funny, it
felt to me at least a more deep movie. 

The story is pretty basic, a guy (Vince Vaughan) who has donated his
sperm some 690 times discovers that he is now the biological father of
593 kids who are suing in order to obtain the identify of the man who
goes by the pseudonym "Starbucks". In the midst of all this, Starbucks'
girlfriend (Cobie Smulders) is pregnant and wants to know if he can
actually make a commitment to a family. The story then revolves around
the emotional decision that Vince Vaughan has to make and what makes
him make those decisions. 

Bottomline, a good movie which will be entertaining, but not a comedy
at any level.
<|_=00=_|>
"Yo no soy David Wozniak"

I went in expecting a comedy but got a serious drama with a bit of
humor to make it funny. Watching Vince Vaughn fumble around in his role
as a meat delivery man can seem kinda humorous but its almost annoying.

When David (Vince Vaughn) finds out he's the father to 533 children
through donations he made to a fertility clinic 20 years ago, he learns
that a fraction of them want to meet him. Against the advice of her
lawyer best friend Brett (Chris Pratt), and while trying to mend the
relationship he has with his girlfriend Emma (Cobie Smulders), David
decides to set out and see how his children turned out. Along the way
he starts to find himself waist deep in the situation.

Delivery Man has a hard time finding its tone and at times suffers from
not knowing what it wants to be, but it does have some heartfelt
moments. I wasn't familiar with the original Canadian film so I can't
be the one to judge if this remake holds up to the original. Cobie
Smulders didn't have much to work with, and the same thing could be
said about the teens playing Starbuck's children. I still ended up
enjoying this a lot more than I expected to so I was pleasantly
surprised with Delivery Man.

This is, I think, a fairly original concept, which could be pursued as
a drama just as easily as a comedy, as is the case here. It isn't the
tidiest job of scripting in the world - the debt subplot is largely
unnecessary, there are other plot lines which aren't necessarily
resolved satisfactorily (or at all) and, for a comedy, it is not
especially loaded with laughs.

Despite it's many lows, it also has some highs that make this worth a
watch. It really comes down to a 50/50 and whether you like Vince
Vaughn or not. For these reasons Delivery Man gets a 5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
The basic premise of this movie Is......lots of children sue their
'Sperm-Donor' father. I would have had no problem with giving this
Movie the lowest possible score - but It would be unfair to severely
criticise the actors and crew for what Is clearly Writer and Director
Ken Scott's problem! Just 2 short years before this Movie, our Mr.Scott
wrote AND directed 'Starbuck' (2011), Identical to 'Delivery Man'(which
he also wrote & directed) In every way (even down to our main man
having exactly 142 disgruntled offspring)! Whilst 'Starbuck' only
grossed around £15k on It's first weekend (the fact that It had French
dialogue can't have helped It's popularity), Ken Scott must have
realised that he was sitting on a Cracking Script - and so, less than 2
years later,behold.....Delivery Man! Only this time with a budget of
£26 Million and an opening weekend take of £8 Million!
Fittingly,perhaps,'Starbuck' Is generally considered the best of the
two,and don't take my word for It....check out the votes here on IMDb
and elsewhere and, of course - see them both for yourselves! It's an
Interesting journey.
<|_=00=_|>
Literally... the exact movie, theme, and plot! Except Starbuck is a
much better version (if you don't mind reading the subtitles, it's
worth it). Since both were released fairly recently, I'm surprised by
the blatant and obvious copying of the original screen play and wonder
if the producers had to buy the rights to do this? Or maybe this is a
bonified "remake". In any case, where Starbuck was charming, authentic
and even believable, I found what I watched of Delivery Man to be a
sillier watered down and disappointing version. I would rent Starbuck,
you will enjoy it. Here is the link below.
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1756750/
<|_=00=_|>
Imagine a life where you are flat broke, unreliable, and have trouble
doing the easiest job in the family business. That is the life of David
Wozniak (Vince Vaughn). Being the delivery man for his father's meat
market, Wozniak lives a debt-riddled life, and not even his girlfriend,
Emma (Cobie Smulders) can count on him to be around. Upon learning Emma
is pregnant with David's child, and Emma's telling David that he is
unreliable and does not have a life, Wozniak sets out to do just that 
get a life.

While working to get a life, a lawyer from a fertility clinic stops by
David's apartment to tell him that for over three years, the clinic
accidentally only used his sperm, which he donated almost 700 times in
order to earn some money, and is the biological father of 533 children.
The lawyer tells Wozniak that, even though he signed an anonymity
clause under the name Starbuck, his children are filing a lawsuit to
find out who their father is.

Wanting to stay anonymous, David goes to his lawyer/friend, Brett
(Chris Pratt), to fight the lawsuit. And after Brett gave David an
envelope containing the profile of 142 of his kids, David sets out to
meet them and be their guardian angel, all the while proving himself as
a father and person to Emma.

A remake of the 2011 movie Starbuck, Delivery Man is OK. The movie
isn't bad, but it's not the greatest movie ever. The story, crazy as it
is, is heartwarming, watching Vince Vaughn's character attempt to
silently reach out to his children. In the movie, we see a different
side of Vince Vaughn's acting. Normally, in movies such as Dodgeball
and Wedding Crashers, we see your typical comedic-movie character.
However in Delivery Man, Vaughn shows feeling and emotion, really
getting across what Wozniak must be feeling and how he is handling it.
Cobie Smulders' performance is fine, and Chris Pratt's character
doesn't make much of an impact, but overall, the movie is fine. While I
did laugh a couple times, I personally am not so sure that Delivery Man
should be classified as strictly a comedy, especially since I laughed
more during Thor: The Dark World than this particular movie.
Nonetheless, Delivery Man is a decent, feel good movie that won't waste
your time.

Rating: 6 of 10

BrickMovieReviews.wordpress.com @BrickFilmReview
<|_=00=_|>
I am dumbfounded at the critics' lackluster to bad reviews of this
great movie, which is funny and poignant, as well as thought provoking.
Vince Vaughn gives a wonderful performance, and is evolving, in my
opinion, into his generation's Bill Murray, a very funny comic actor
with a gift for the dramatic. Don't let the odd premise or the off the
mark reviews keep you from watching this touching film. Good supporting
performances from Chris Pratt and Andrzej Blumenfeld round things out.
No spoiler here, but a scene late in the film between Vince's character
and his father is so understated, yet hilarious, that I had to pause it
several times until I stopped laughing. What I really loved about this
film was how the humor came out of truthful situations even though the
main premise of the film is preposterous.
