
It's really unfortunate that Goldie Hawn was in this movie, because
she's genuinely capable of doing great work.

Schumer on the other hand has never really been funny, and has been
recycling the same tired vagina jokes for what seems to be an eternity.

The mother-daughter duo have horrible writing, it's difficult to really
relate to them (which is a problem with a lot of Schumer's stand-up -
she says a lot of unrelatable things) and I had a very hard time liking
or even finding the characters interesting.

At some point Hollywood is going to realise that the quickest way to
kill a movie is to include Schumer, who is rapidly becoming a poison
pill in the industry. 

That time can't come fast enough.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly this movie was hard to watch. Amy Schumer really declined.
It's so sad to see once great comedians lose their ability to make us
laugh.

Very boring and cringy movie. Save yourself the ten dollars and don't
watch this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Arguably the worst movie I've seen in a very long time. 

I got free passes to check out this movie at a pre-screening, without
knowing what it was or who was in it. As soon as I saw Amy Schumer I
knew I was in for a bad time. She's done some okay stuff in the past
but the last year or so has been a total nosedive for her, and I
honestly can't even look at her anymore. Between her political rants
and her in-your-face tryhard attention-seeking antics, she's just done
as far as I'm concerned.

Anyway, I did try to give the film a fair shake despite all this, and I
have to say that Schumer isn't even the problem. You can replace her
with nearly anyone else and the movie will still be awful. Mind you,
it's extra awful because of her, but she's not solely responsible for
it's failure.

The writing was poor, the entire plot was contrived, and there was
really nothing that held my interest overall. It was nice to see Goldie
Hawn on the screen again, so if I was forced to say something nice that
would have to be it. 

Avoid at all costs. Not worth it, even if the tickets are free.
<|_=00=_|>
Feel so sorry for Goldie she is such a good actress & to be in such a
boring movie is just sad. She waited 15 years to make a movie, I think
she should have waited a little longer. The attempt at humor was
pathetic & strained. I sure wish I hadn't wasted my money on this.
First time I have seen this many people leave a theater before the
movie was done.
<|_=00=_|>
I never knew what it felt like to be on the verge on suicide when
leaving a screener. Not one laugh was muddled from the entire viewing
audience, only sounds of disgust, and shocking awe from how poorly this
movie was executed. It is quite literally was 1.5 hours of my life that
was truly, and entirely wasted. I will never get that previous time
back. When i'm on my death bed, the one regret i will have is seeing
this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, the reviews (if you can call them that) here are
ridiculously biased and definitely come from a place of pure disdain
for Amy Schumer. While I do feel the critiques of her are warranted to
an extent, I also feel that the film is not going to get a fair shake.
So here is my attempt at giving Snatched a fair review. First off, I
saw this last night at a preview screening and I'd be lying if I said I
didn't chuckle a couple times. I did. Goldie Hawn being back on screen
is awesome to see and to see her doing comedy again was a huge selling
point. However, despite a few chuckles and me being enamored with
Hawn's return to the silver screen, Snatched is simply a dismal film.
It isn't just because of Amy Schumer that this film is bad, it is a
joint effort by all parties including Goldie Hawn. 

The film begins in slapstick fashion by introducing us to Schumer and
Hawn's mother- daughter team. I'm not gonna lie, the two have some
serious chemistry in their respected roles. The only problem is that
Schumer & Co. rely on gross out humor and even lift some jokes from
certain cult comedies to make their film work. The script is barely
there and hopes that Schumer can fill in the gaps with stupid jokes
rather than some on-the-surface character development. Instead, the
film brushes through topics ranging from promiscuous sex to human
trafficking to the power of a mother-daughter bond. These are all
topics that could carry a film and at every chance the film gets, it
fails to capitalize on any of those themes. 

In between vaginal jokes and gags from Schumer and some scenes of
pretty hardcore violence for a comedy, there is barely anything to make
us want these characters to succeed other than they are mother and
daughter. While I can't exactly relate to that relationship, I can tell
the filmmakers were hoping that that familiar bond would be enough to
carry the film. Guess what, it's not. They're poorly written
characters, which is a shame because Schumer and Hawn do make quite the
dynamic duo and when it works, it works. The big problem here is that
it works far too little and there is far too much wrong with the film
overall to really recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
All I can say is my buddy works at a movie theater, and with free
access to this film, I still felt like I lost something. 10 min in one
can accurately see what is coming the rest of time. Predictable,
forced, recycled content hour in a half harsh language vagina-humor. I
tried to give it a chance because I grew up watching Goldie, but if it
wasn't a free viewing I may have tried to swap tickets and see
something else.
<|_=00=_|>
Tired, Lazy, Racist, Ill-Cast, Do not waste your time or money on this
total waste of celluloid! The story is awful, the acting is awful, the
action is tired and the direction leaves something to be desired. As a
barometer of success for this film, the theater was just about empty
and if not for my girlfriend, I wouldn't have been there either. Wait
for it to hit TV and then watch the Animal Planet Channel!
<|_=00=_|>
I still love Goldie but all through the movie I just kept wondering how
that Amy chick gets cast in anything other than an extra on the walking
dead. This review has to be at least 5 lines so to recap, I thought the
movie could have been OK with a better choice of actresses, I wouldn't
have even gone without free tickets.
<|_=00=_|>
I just couldn't believe it. Amy Schumer, the comedian of the moment and
iconic Goldie Hawn decide to make a movie together, wow! But this is
the best they could come up with? So depressing. Have they heard of
Preston Sturges, Billy Wilder. No of course not. Goldie Hawn must know.
She was in "Overboard" and in that original, witty and phenomenal
comedy with Mewryl Streep "Death Becomes Her" She was with Ingrid
Bergman and Walter Matthau in "Cactus Flower". My point is, she must
have known, reading the script that this was going to be offensive to
an audience who love her. There is nothing to recommend here but lots
to reprimand.
