
The Smurfs The Lost Village is the latest offering from Sony Picture
Animation, the team that brought you Goosebumps and Cloudy with a
chance of meatballs. As a longtime smurf fan, it is without question
that I would go to see this film. I was delighted with this latest
film, its animation is beautiful, the look of the smurfs is faithfully
recreated from the well loved cartoons of Peyo. The depiction of the
smurf village is stunning and the detail of the characters is lovely,
you can see every texture and this really adds to the movie. The new
characters are a nice addition, finally Smurfette isn't the only girl
in the village. The character voices are handled well and are in
keeping with the feel of the film. I would recommend it wholeheartedly
to everyone, children and adults alike. I hope to see more films and
lots more merchandise. I would love to see more stories that include
Johan & Peewit and Homnibus etc..well done Sony Pictures Animation on a
glorious film
<|_=00=_|>
I got to see the advance screening of the move with my kids. I enjoyed
the fast pace of the movie and the exciting story line. Kids did not
get bored throughout the movie. Unlike some movies that are geared
towards boys or girls specifically, this movie entertains both boys and
girls. There was no vulgarity in the movie and no unnecessary violence.
<|_=00=_|>
Sony outdid themselves with this movie. I have been waiting for a long
time in anticipation of this movie and it definitely did not disappoint
me. If you liked the first two then this is a must see movie, and is
great for children and the kid at heart. I look forward to Sony making
another Smurfs movie in the future but please don't take so long next
time. Keep on Smurfing.
<|_=00=_|>
"Smurfs: The Lost Village" is a story that fits nicely between the
classic Peyo comics and the Hanna-Barbera Saturday morning cartoon. The
animation is beautifully done. There is no way you can take every
little detail in with just one viewing. The plot is fairly
straightforward with adventure at the forefront. This film avoids the
misplaced pop culture references and overused Smurf puns that many
disliked about the previous movies. "Smurfs: The Lost Village" aims for
a younger audience, but adults shouldn't have a problem remembering why
they liked these characters themselves.
<|_=00=_|>
Brilliant animation work. Smurfette looked like Peyo's Smurfette
instead of the half human half smurf humonculus that was the first two
movies. Seriously, the first two were a mockery of the smurfs. Hefty
needed to be in them and this time he was. The voice acting was spot on
and Demi Lovato voiced Smurfette perfectly and the animation captured
her sweetness. People who say it is rubbish are not fans of the Smurfs
and should not be taken as credible critics. The Smurfs needed to be
done right and now it has. I could share this with my kids and say"
This is what I watched as a kid and learned tolerance of other's
differences." Everyone was different and that was okay, in fact it was
treasured. Where is the heart in movies now days? I loved it! Brings
back childhood memories.
<|_=00=_|>
Absolutely loved the movie :) They took the original cartoons and
rebooted the whole thing in a very cool fashion. And Hefty has always
been my favorite, so it was so damn cool to see the team back together
again. The ending was very very emotional. Hope to see more Smurfs
after this one. Way to go!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a masterpiece in its own element! It was how I
remembered my favorite cartoon as they ran through a forest, on an
adventure, with that true Smurfs charm which really made me blush like
crazy! Don't get me wrong, but the Smurfs and Smurfs 2 was pretty good
and they were unique; but, this movie was the right way to do a Smurfs
movie! This movie is such a treat! The family will love it! I am sure
of it! And seeing it in 3D was even better! So I highly recommend
seeing in 3D, it's worth the extra bucks!
<|_=00=_|>
The Smurfs - The Lost village is a tribute to Peyo and his artistic
ability in 1958 in creating the Smurfs. Great work to the director,
crew, stars and of course Sony Animation to creating a lost village
like no person not even some Smurfs has ever seen before. Avatar had
loads of colour. The Lost village is that and more. Great movie for
everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Attention parents of young children. I saw Smurfs: The Lost Village on
Friday night and recommend that you ignore the mostly negative reviews.
This animated film features fast action, magical colors, fun music, and
a whole new magical Smurf village of fire-breathing dragonflies
andgirl Smurfs! Went to an 8 PM show, but there were some children
thereI heard lots of laughter and saw one girl dancing in the aisle.
Go, enjoy, and let your kids have fun at a movie made just for them.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I've been a smurfs fan/collector for over 30 years now and
I'm going to be as unbiased as possible. Despite its flaws, I loved the
first Smurfs live action movie from 2011 and unfortunately I have a
hard time watching 'Smurfs 2' in it's entirety. Simply put, 'Lost
Village' gets back to its roots and is the best of the Sony Pictures
Animation offerings. It may not have the depth of most Pixar movies but
the movie has heart and it stays true to what the Smurfs are. I'm
planning on seeing it again in 3D (which I'm not a huge fan of) due to
overall visuals in the movie which really popped even in 2D. The only
concern I had originally is how Rainn Wilson would be as Gargamel since
it's hard to top Paul Winchell's Gargamel from the classic Hanna-
Barbera series but he brought something new & different and I wasn't
disappointed with it. Definitely worth seeing on the big screen and be
sure to stay during the credits for a little added bonus about halfway
through. Overall A-/B+
