
Joe was well-received in its American premiere at Austin's SXSW Film
Festival. David Gordon Green's film, based on Larry Brown's novel, was
filmed locally in the Austin-area. The film is dark, brooding, intense
and most of all depressing. The story about a local lumber foreman 
Joe - who tries to rescue a 15-year-old drifter with an abusive
alcoholic father is violent and disturbing and one knows from the start
that there is no way for it to really end well. I found the film a
little too dark and a little too slow as it moves to what seems like an
inevitable bitter end. I think it could use some editing to speed the
pace a bit. The acting by Nicholas Cage as the foreman and young Tye
Sheridan  fresh off of his success in Mud alongside Matthew
McConaughey  are excellent. In a way, it reverses the characters in
Mud where Tye Sheridan's character is trying to rescue the older man;
in Joe, the situation is the other way around. The film is hard to
watch at times and difficult to call enjoyable, but the story is still
powerful. It is difficult to imagine that such a dark film will attain
much cinematic success. Green often casts locals in his film. In a sad,
but perhaps appropriate corollary, the Green cast a local homeless man,
Gary Poulter, to play the important role of the alcoholic father.
Poulter died on the streets of Austin two months after the end of the
filming. It is a powerful film, but I doubt I will ever want to watch
it again.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the darkest, bleakest films I have seen in a long time.
All characters, without any exception, are unhappy souls, surviving in
a grim world, unable to improve their lives, prone to an almost
genetically determined urge to mess things up. 

The image of rural America this film paints, is almost like that of a
third world country. Most men have a cigarette in one hand and a bottle
in the other. Dysfunctional families live in decaying shacks, without
money or food. Violent dogs are barking everywhere. Disagreements are
settled by fistfights or, in some cases, by bullets. The only community
centres are a grocery store and a whorehouse. Homeless people are
killed for a few dollars and a bottle of liquor. 

The central character is Joe, an outstanding role from Nicolas Cage. He
is a loner, living on the edge of society, earning a living by
poisoning trees so that they can be removed legally. He hires workers
on a daily basis, one of them being a 15 year old kid who regularly
gets beaten up by his alcoholic father. They get to like each other,
but when the boy seeks Joe's protection, things get out of hand. 

The main characteristic of the film is the gloomy atmosphere,
emphasizing the desolate hopelessness. The cinematography is stark and
bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. The acting is very
effective. Above all the part of the boy's father is worth mentioning.
It is played by a local homeless man, who apparently died a few weeks
after shooting was finished. 

Some reviewers compared 'Joe' tot 'Mud'. An obvious similarity is Tye
Sheridan, who plays the same sort of role in both films, as a young kid
who befriends an older man. But to me, 'Joe' had much more in common
with 'Winter's Bone'. This film was also set in rural America, with
Jennifer Lawrence as a teenager trying to keep her dignity in a world
of violence and dysfunctional families.
<|_=00=_|>
'An ex-con, who is the unlikeliest of role models, meets a 15-year-old
boy and is faced with the choice of redemption or ruin.'

It is hard to describe life. Stories about mermaids fighting wars in
different galaxies, that is easy to describe; but writing about life,
sometimes all you can say is, 'It's about life'

Joe is a story about a place, a place most people might not be able to
conceive: where things are dying, where people survive off liquor and
cigarettes, where those who are supposed to love us drive knives into
our backs.

Joe (Nicholas Cage) runs a small foresting outfit poisoning weak trees
so the land can be replanted with sturdy pine. A troubled life, past,
Joe moves from bottle to bottle and day to day, but when he gives a
young man named Gary (Tye Sheridan star of the movie 'Mud') a job, the
bond they form brings direction into each of their lives. Joe is
compelled to help Gary out of the pit dug by his drunk father.

Director David Gordon Green of Prince Avalanche and Snow Angels and
Pineapple Express can pretty much cut on all sides of drama. I think
the mark of a great Director is you hardly notice he is there. Like
Prince Avalance and Snow Angels, the movie's scenes blended so well
with the story and characters.

Nicolas Cage is good when he is bad and good when he is good, so, no
point in dwelling on him. It's worth watching this movie just to see
him.

Tye Sheridan hasn't been acting long, but god damn, he has been in some
good movies and he showed a lot of range in this flick, portraying an
abused and scared and strong young man.

If you know David Gordon Green, you don't need convincing to see this
movie. If you like Cage or Sheridan, you probably will check it out to
see them.

Green likes to show certain things: scenes that might not be a part of
the story, but add so much to the story in general, the way a writer
might prelude a chapter by describing something connected to, but not
in line with the characters. Joe has a feel, you can sense it and I was
getting a little shaky half way through.

I know places and people, some that might pass for the world in 'Joe'.
I have seen people drink themselves evil. I have seen young people fall
apart because of those around them. But, I guess there is always the
chance of coming out, and surviving, if you keep up the fight.

From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and
character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do
however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can
accept them.

in the end, Joe is a movie about people. I finished this film,
thinking, 'There are people out there suffering and I can do something
to help them.'
<|_=00=_|>
Joe is a masterful work that imbues you to it through its realism. It
is a perfect movie for Nicolas Cage to be in at this point in his
career. While he has continued to put in world class performances and
appear in uniquely great films, the actor has developed a reputation as
a set-up joke. The interesting part is that there is no true punch
line. He is one of the world's supreme artistic talents and he does
more serious work than possibly any other movie star. With this culture
of ignorance in the Information Age persisting fed by the corporate
media, Cage has appeared in one of his best films yet, and in one that
brings humanity down to its root nature.

Joe is a blue collar boss doing questionable work in the South who
takes a teenage boy, Gary, that is at a pivotal point in his life under
his wing. The kid's real father, Wade, is a disturbed alcoholic. Joe is
not a perfect man himself, but he gives off the feeling that he wants
to do right. The movie is a character study of him, and it is delivered
in a type of full force by David Gordon Green and Nicolas Cage that is
rare today.

It is not the restrained performance that the critics have described.
Cage is in a fit the entire time. What the "professionals" are seeing
is how DGG was able to make the moments seem almost like a documentary.
While there is some strong personality being displayed, it is done in a
way that is truthful to human nature. There is a real duality to all
the characters. Joe brings death and life. Gary honors his family and
judges them. Wade commits cruelty and shows his strong desire for
empathy. 

The "restraint" isn't done by Cage, but Joe. He is working to keep
himself from emerging under the pressure of a backwards country. Cage
is able to show that Joe isn't being two different people, but one man
forced to go against his heart if he wants to survive, in a measured
performance. He strikes a rhythm with his role and it combined with the
entertainment of a drama that feels real, makes the movie go at a nice
pace.

All the characters struggle against the system that has also
perpetuated the falsehoods about the star leading the project, though
it is best embodied by Cage's Joe. There is his fisticuffs back and
forward with those who claim to work for justice, but an even better
example is his job, which seems necessary but is criminal. The trains
can't be stopped and their incessant movement brings about reactive
forces in the people it affects.

Tye Sheridan does a remarkable job as Gary, however it is Gary
Poulter's execution of Wade, or G-Daawg, that along with Cage's takes
the film up a notch. His sullen moments where he stares down another
character are deeply moving despite the dark nature of the person he is
playing. It is a legendary performance, that will long be remembered.

The Old Media will tell you that this is a comeback for both Cage and
DGG, but don't let them brainwash you. Most people just want to give
everything lip now, thinking that this endless determination makes them
a higher being, and the system needs to feed on its own BS borne out of
greed's simplicity. Truth isn't found there. In Joe, it is. 

Nicolas Cage has been roundly criticized since winning his Oscar for
taking action and fantasy roles as well as playing "dark" and
"unrelatable" characters, but he is simply being himself. He has always
had a taste for the peculiar. If he were to do the projects "we" wanted
rather than the ones he did, then he wouldn't be a true artist, and we
would not have the profound work that we find in this film, with a
character needing to do the "wrong" thing to be the good person others
think he is. Cage was made to play Joe, and DGG, who has received
similar criticisms for his "naughtiness," was made to direct him. They
have both stayed themselves, and therefore have a better understanding
of what is real. That this particular movie has come at this point in
both their filmographies, is poetic. It is a reminder to the diseased
audience not to let the system think for you both in terms of the story
and who is telling it. For, it gives a picture of a backwards society
that diminishes reality where culminating incidents brought by suffered
individuals show the truth. Here you will find a bit of realism
existing in a delusional world.

9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
There's a quote about midway through David Gordon Green's Joe that I
believe is crucial to understanding the film's thematic core. Forgive
me if I'm paraphrasing but it goes something like 'These men have no
more frontiers'. The line is in reference to the men Joe works with and
in many ways applies to the titular character himself. Joe is a man
that knows he is stuck; he has no where to go because his surroundings
can't let him. Even though he thinks five steps ahead of the average
man it is only delaying the inevitable. The conflict of the story
however is not whether or not Joe lives but if he can save the future
of a promising child, named Gary.

Joe is the kind of film that proves that a small story can be much more
meaningful than a larger one. This kind of unsentimental character
piece needs a small tight focus so all of the nuances of said
characters shines through. Thankfully David Gordon Green understands
this; his approach to directing the film is subtle and organic,
allowing the actors to shine first and foremost. There are some
understated flourishes and several instances of visual poetry but for
the most part Green keeps things taut and unsentimental. He wants the
audience to be immersed in the volatile world Gary and Joe inhabit.

And what a convincing world it is. Green's depiction of Southern lower
class Americana is unsentimental, austere and straightforward. The film
doesn't feel the need to overemphasize aspects of these characters
live. Nothing is glamorized, nothing romanticized; the film aims for a
hard hitting depiction of the character's world which only serves to
further highlight the core conflict. Green understands that the
audience needs to understand how close Gary and his sister are to harm
and in doing so has crafted a thoroughly realized community teeming
with details and nuances.

But the real centerpiece of the film is it's acting; three performances
in particular stick out. Cage's Joe, Sheridan's Gary and Gary Poulter's
Wade. Cage's depiction of Joe is not quite the subdued performance many
critics made it out to be. Instead it is a silent colossus of a
performance. One of Cage's biggest strengths as an actor is the ability
to convey a character's thought process without saying a word. He makes
a perfect fit for Joe; a man who is always moving, thinking, never
given to slowing down. He is a frank straightforward man and Cage does
the character justice. Equally excellent is Sheridan's Gary. Coming off
his sterling performance in Mud, Sheridan proves himself one of the
most promising actors of the younger generation. He brings balances
both the character's more mature and intelligent feelings and ambitions
with a raw, primal rage that surfaces in a truly explosive manner.
Finally we have Gary Poulter, the dark horse of this movie. A non-actor
Poulter was hired due to his similarity to the character he was
portraying. And boy does he nail it. Seething with a kind of disheveled
rage, imbued with a selfish nostalgic anger for a time he had a future;
Wade is a truly terrifying character only made more terrifying by
Poulter's raw, thoroughly convincing performance. If Joe is symbolizes
a man in societal stagnation, Wade is that stagnation taken to it's
logical, horrific end.

Joe is a gritty, hard movie about gritty hard people but it's also
intelligent, heartfelt and riveting from the first frame to the last.
It solidifies the comeback for David Gordon Green as a unique presence
in American cinema and hopefully is a sign that Cage will do more of
these kinds of austere, gripping character pieces more often in the
future.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
"You pretend to be asleep, but I know you'd cry if I said the wrong
thing."

Joe is a powerful and emotional drama that despite being slow grips you
thanks to an intense realism and some excellent performances. Many have
compared this to last year's MUD perhaps because teenager Tye Sheridan
is in both films and they happen to take place in southern America
dealing with some trashy characters. I really felt this film was more
similar to Jennifer Lawrence's Winter's Bone in mood and tone, since
MUD had an underlying romantic theme which this film lacks and you have
two young characters that have to face great obstacles in order to
sustain their families. With his performance in Joe, Tye Sheridan, has
acquired quite an impressive resume despite his young age adding this
performance to his work in MUD and The Tree of Life. As the title
suggests however, the film benefits from a great lead performance from
Cage who plays Joe, a man with a troubled past who gets a chance at
redemption when he meets this young kid and becomes a sort of role
model for him. This is one of Nicolas Cage's top 5 performances and a
return to form for the actor that I grew up loving in the 90's. Perhaps
my favorite performance in the film comes from newcomer, Gary Poulter,
who plays the abusive alcoholic father. I can't think of a more
horrifying villain than the character he portrays in Joe. Director,
David Gordon Green, has also had a return to form after his
disappointing turns in the comedies The Sitter and Your Highness. He is
a very versatile director who received a lot of critical acclaim from
his early small indies, George Washington and All the Real Girls, and
then he also had success with his first stoner comedy, Pineapple
Express. You would never imagine Joe was directed by the same person
considering this is such a dark emotional drama.

Joe takes place in the wild South lands of Mississippi where we meet
Joe Ransom (Nicolas Cage), an ex-con and heavy drinker who is trying to
lay low working as a lumberjack. His life takes a turn when he meets a
young 15 year old named Gary (Tye Sheridan) who comes to him looking
for a job. Gary is the oldest son of a homeless family who suffers
abuse from his alcoholic father, Wade (Gary Poulter). Wade spends all
the money in booze and beats Gary on a regular basis. Joe's protective
instincts come to play when he takes a liking for Joe who he tries to
help. Despite having a lot of friends in the small local town, Joe also
has made some enemies due to his heavy drinking and constant trouble
with the law, and despite how much he tries to restrain himself from
hurting others, seeing Gary being constantly abused awakens his anger
towards his abusive father.

The characters in this film have a lot of depth and the realism with
which they are portrayed by the actors is shocking at times. Sheridan
gives a similar performance as that of Lawrence in Winter's Bone,
Nicolas Cage is outstanding as well in his restrained role, and Poulter
is so terrifying that he makes everyone's father look like a saint. The
film has a haunting atmosphere and the drama is so rich that it is hard
to remain emotionally detached to the story. It is a powerful and
honest drama, one of the best from 2014. It's one of those rare
emotional character studies that doesn't feel manipulative and never
hits a false note. Cage reminds us why he was such a success in the
past and I'm glad to see him back in form after a terrible batch of
films.
<|_=00=_|>
I couldn't help but notice how much J-O-E is similar (or at least as
simple as) to a D-O-G. The film is more than just a glimpse into the
life of a man who does know how to live, but I was wondering if he
served more as a metaphor for everyone of us as a part of the human
race who live better when we're on a leash. Nicolas Cage plays the
title character as a man who can smile and have fun, but lives off the
leash. He'd be a good dog to the extent that he will always do the
right thing. Just don't mess with him. Or his friends. "Joe" has been
the movie event of the festival. It plays a dramatic chord through
notes of laughter and some extreme intensity (seriously, of "Gravity"
caliber). The violence is strong (the 60-year-old man next to me had to
look away during one scene in particular), and the acting is subtle
(realistic). Nic Cage, in his conversation at the SXSW Film Festival,
spoke about his wife telling him that this role was as close as he's
gotten to his real persona. I found it more along the lines of "Leaving
Las Vegas." If you're reading that right, you should be expecting Nic
Cage do start doing lower-budget movies (this was made for $6 Million,
I believe). This is what he wants to do now (I quote him personally),
and I believe this could be the start of a sustainable career toward
what we might come to know as a legacy. Nicolas Cage, you should know,
is the ideal movie star. He knows how to live, and he knows how to be
kind. This is his return to form while there may be a *wink* or two in
this film at what he's known as on this wild thing called the
"internet." Still, he's not really like any other movie star, and there
will never be anyone known as "the next Nicolas Cage." He is truly
one-of-a-kind. As is this film. "Joe" is a simple story of simple
people. There are many minor characters who just seem to exist in this
world. There is one scene of him looking over to see a couple in a jeep
next to him. I felt this might have been out of place, although the two
made eye contact and it granted a laugh from the audience. What I
wanted was this scene to be a metaphor for was a life Joe could have
had. He doesn't like being messed with, especially when nobody has a
reason to mess with him. He doesn't give them one, but when he fights
back at them, the consequences are played out throughout the film. The
editing lets the actors breath and the music lets the atmosphere live.
Shot around Austin, an audience member (that same 60-year-old man) told
me that the director, David Gordon Green (Pineapple Express), grabbed a
few people off a bus, and gave them starring roles. They serve as decay
of human beings. We're shown the lowest of the low, and it will make
you angry to see what people are capable of doing to each other. I
don't believe people are happier on a leash. When we're told what to
do, we may be rewarded with food, but at the end of the day, it's the
connection to each other that makes us want to wake up again. Dogs play
a major role in this film to the extent that one serves as a major
character. In the final moments (No spoiler, I promise), there is a
tear-jerking scene that lets you know that we can find happiness and
peace. We see the dog in the front seat, happy with it's tongue out for
the first time in the film, as opposed to the brute-ready-to-fight
we've come to know in the back of Joe's truck. All we need in life is
to be raised well. On that note, Tye Sheridan's (from "Mud" (2012) with
Matthew McConaughey) part is played tough, but his deadbeat abusive
father has become such a bad influence, and Gary is smart enough to
know not to follow in his footsteps. This film was nearly perfect, but
sadly still not made for everyone. I hope, when it's finally released
worldwide to audiences everywhere, I'm wrong about that, and audiences
see it. It's an important film, as well as very entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
David Gordon Green, who's versatile career has swung from the sublime
('Snow Angels' & 'Undertow) to the completely absurd ('Pineapple
Express' & 'Your Highness'), has swung back once again with this
adaptation of Larry Brown's bleak novel, 'Joe'. The thriller follows
the lives of country drifters surviving on the fringes of modern
America's mid-west. The title character, played by Nicolas Cage, is a
man with a troubled past and a short temper that has found a
respectable - if teetering - balance in life. When he hires a young
drifter, played by Tye Sheridan ('The Tree of Life' / 'Mud') as a
day-laborer and tries to take the boy under his wing, that balance
begins to tip when the boy's vagabond father becomes jealous of his
income and his friendship with Joe. This is a film about fighting
against your own nature and, though his more serious roles are often
overshadowed by his over-the-top gonzo-ness, this is, by far, Cage's
most subtle success to date. Don't worry though, he still gives the
camera 'crazy-eyes' at least once.
<|_=00=_|>
Joe (2013)

Where our children turn when their parents let them down is one of the
most troubling areas for fact and fiction both. Nicolas Cage's
checkered career doesn't diminish his strong, heartfelt performance
here as Joe, leading a group of workers in the deep woods of some Deep
South state doing illegal tree killing. But that's just backdrop,
because a teenager, Gary, comes along looking for work, seemingly just
from some patch of these rural woods or one of the little backwards
towns nearby.

Joe has issues with violence and alcohol, but he's a truly good person
deep down below all the conflicts and bad judgments, and he learns that
Gary has an abusive father and troubled family. And he gradually gets
involved. As this intersection grows, we learn more about Joe's world
in the town, about some other guys who have it out for him, and about
his sense of honor. It's that kind of world where government of all
kinds, including the police, is considered unnecessary to the point of
being bad, and instead people have a kind of independence that is
sometimes admirable and sometimes pure belligerence.

That's the part of the movie I liked much more than I expected, and was
what I took away above allthe portrayal of a kind of life and a kind
of people, told with an odd kind of honesty that works.

It doesn't just reside there, however. The plot becomes highly
dramatic, even sensational, as some of the shifty characters get
motivated to get really violent. There is even a point when it gets so
hairy for Joe he does something unthinkable until nowhe calls the
cops. You'll see, it's an odd turning point. So this vengeance and
violence make the plot have teeth, I suppose, and it's fine, but I
actually sense another movie that didn't get made here that was toned
down two steps and had all these elements and yet kept the focus on the
real grit.

And there's Gary, who is a pretty decent kid somehow (his father is
about as bad as fathers can get, but his mom had some influence, I
guess). We can finally see how a kid can escape a family horror and
move on, while growing up and becoming a decent person, maybe another
Joe, which oddly enough the world needs. It's worth watching just for
all these things. Give it twenty minutes to develop, and it'll click.
<|_=00=_|>
Director David Gordon Green is known for Pineapple Express (2008), All
the Real Girls (2003) and George Washington (2000) and makes it his
practice to cast his movie extras from locals in the area in which he
is shooting his films. In Austin, Texas he found a street person - Gary
Poulter - who plays a significant role in this film, Two months after
the film was completed Pouter was found dead on the streets of Austin.
That sets a tone for the film - very dark, little in the way of
redemptive force, but an opportunity for Nicholas Cage and Tye Sheridan
to prove their acting chops.

Joe Ransom (Nicholas Cage) drops the bottles as quickly as he burned
his life. Joe is perhaps irresponsible, but is no less a hard worker.
He manages a work team of black men who admire him in a forest where
his task is to poison trees so that an outside contractor and come in
and rid the woods of bad trees and plant good ones (there is a fine
line of parallel to the story here). Joe encounters Gary (Tye
Sheridan), a boy of 15 years, and his father, Wade aka G-Daawg (Gary
Poulter), an alcoholic good-for-nothing. For Gary, all is not lost;
there is still time for him to seek the right path, to escape from the
control of damaging his father yet still support his mute sister and
pathetic helpless mother. Joe struggles with his past as an ex-con, his
alcoholism, his dependency on female sex workers, and attempting of
manage his short-fused anger that gets him into trouble all too
frequently. Joe takes on Gary, gives him work, lets him use his truck,
and in general protects Gary from harm. A town bully/creep
Willie-Russell (Ronnie Gene Blevins) has endured abuse from Joe and is
stalking him and eventually Gary and G-Dwaag in a revenge twist. How
Joe deals with coping with redemption or ruin plays out in the final
scenes of this film.

The film is unrelentingly dark, both in camera action and in storyline.
The only thing that keeps is afloat is the sensitivity of the
bilaterally desperately needy relationship between Cage and Sheridan -
and they make us care about them.
