
Greetings again from the darkness. This is my third "first feature"
from a writer/director this week, but there endeth any similarities.
Ana Lily Amirpour presents the first ever Iranian romantic vampire
thriller that blends the styles of Spaghetti Westerns, graphic novels
and 1950's rebel flicks, while making a social statement regarding
Muslim women.

This festival favorite is an expanded version of Ms. Amirpour's 2011
short film of the same title, and the use of black and white, combined
with cinematographer Lyle Vincent's extraordinary photography, delivers
a beautifully stark dream-like atmosphere that lends itself well to the
sparse dialogue approach.

Despite minimal conversation, we quickly recognize Saeed (Dominic
Rains) as the ultra-arrogant drug dealer and bullying pimp, Arash
(Arash Marandi) as the hard-working dutiful nice guy who sees himself
as a would-be James Dean, Hossein (Marshall Manash) as the
drug-addicted dad who burdens his son, and Atti (Mozhan Marno) as the
aging, powerless prostitute with little hope. There is even the street
boy (Milad Eghbali) who sees all and says little  and is the target of
the film's most terrifying scene (and maybe one of the most terrifying
bloodless scenes of any horror film).

What really stands out about this low-budget gem is the seamless and
effective mixing of genres. In addition to the "vampire" moments, there
are a couple of the most quietly erotic scenes that I can recall
(including an ear-piercing), and even a quite humorous scene with an
under-the-influence Arash mesmerized by a lamp post while wearing a
Dracula costume and being observed by a real vampire.

The vampire is played perfectly by Sheila Vand, whose intoxicating eyes
and subtle facial gestures convey all whether she is feeding her
appetite, being gently seduced by Arash, or slowly coasting on her
skateboard. Her only time to unleash pent-up emotions is the previously
mentioned scene when she warns "Be a good boy". Otherwise, she is the
lonesome vampire in search of connection who periodically weeds out the
bad men  simultaneously improving society and empowering women.

It's an odd production as the characters speak Farsi, but filming took
place outside Bakersfield, California in a locale that fits the story
town's name, Bad City. Any influence of Iranian culture is only evident
through interpretation and the excellent cast. The beautiful camera
work is complemented by an outstanding and unusual soundtrack  a
combination that proves Ms. Amirpour's eye and feel for storytelling.
The minimal dialogue approach is successful thanks to the atmospheric
style and the talents of the cast (many of whom will be familiar to
American TV and film audiences). It's an exciting first feature and has
many anxiously awaiting the next project from Ana Lily Amirpour.
<|_=00=_|>
Within the first 2 min of this film, anyone with any level of knowledge
on cinema can admit to the film's "uniqueness" in style, looks and the
neo-genre it is trying to create from the ashes of genres such as
western and vampire. That much is evident right off the bat. and it
summarizes the overwhelming high praises it is receiving in the
festival world. This powerful revelation leaves you in anxious
excitement to want to see and know where this journey is taking you and
how it will leave you. 

The story happens in an imaginary city in Iran called "bad city". A
very 'sin city' like atmosphere where basic human values have vanished
and what is ruling this land is money, corruption, extreme misogyny and
LOTS OF OIL. As a matter of fact, oil refineries seem to be the only
legit functioning industry within this very bad city. One can only
guess where the oil money is going to and how it is being spent judging
from the state the city is in.

The glorious black and white cinematography paints a very dark
atmosphere that quite effectively suits the characters, storyline and
the location. Almost every shot was carefully composed to the point
that you'd want to pause the film to appreciate them to the fullest.

The most important and powerful aspect of the film, besides its
brilliant cinematography, is the vampire character: both in substance
and style. Taking in the fact that chador, a tool of female oppression,
is used as the vampire's cape took a while to sink in. the
juxtaposition of both of those concepts, oppression and domination,
made the character mysterious, powerful and quite fascinating to watch.
Sheila Vand is very effective as the vampire as well. She wears a cold,
inhuman and aloof face yet there is so much sympathy and curiosity
within her. She hit both spectrum quite well. There is an iconic
tracking scene of the vampire skateboarding on the road which
cinematically is one that will always stay with me. It was purely
magical.

The vampire is out to get justice for all the women that are being
harmed by the patriarchal system they find themselves in. in a creepy
scene, she stalks an old man on the empty streets of bad city. The
reversal of roles here hits the right note and it acts as very
competent punch line that sets the tone for the whole film. In the end,
A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night is in the simplest of terms "Style
over substance". The film sets up a brilliant and for lack of a better
word "unique" platform to explore the unexplored and to say the unsaid.
However, It sadly leaves a lot more to be desired. Most of the scenes
drag on for too long. If done right, silences within scenes could be a
powerful tool to assert things that no word can. But this was not the
case here. Such silences made the scenes drag for too long offering
nothing in return. It seemed that Amirpour wanted us to take in the
atmosphere and the inner-character tensions that was supposedly going
on, but sadly nothing of substance could be found there, no matter how
hard one tried.
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of the most anticipated art-house horror films. The fact
it's done in Persian with Iranian director and crew absolutely peeks
every filmophile's interest. Unfortunately, the hype surrounding it
sometimes works against anticipated releases like this, but the wait
was worth it.

A Girl Walks Home...was heavily influenced by Jim Jarmusch's aesthetic,
like a love letter to this director. A vampire western with a touch of
romance - something I haven't seen before. Let's see if this unusual
combination worked... The last few years were great for vampire
subgenre, reviving it with a few films that have became instant
favorites and, in my opinion, deserve their place in film history.

Let The Right One In and Only Lovers Left Alive are notable examples,
and now A Girl has joined them, forming fantastic trinity of style,
ideas, cinematography and unparalleled atmosphere. Modern vampire
subgenre works best in authentic urban surroundings, with as little
action sequences as possible, focusing on loneliness, inner turmoil of
the characters, existentialism and sometimes unlikely companionship
between humans and vamps. A Girl has it all, adding extra cultural
layer to these key ingredients.

Jarmusch's Only Lovers Left Alive have set vampire tale in Western and
Eastern world both, and A Girl... paints excerpts of Iranian life.
(Although filmed in California) the rest is authentic. This black&white
picture offers style and atmosphere, quiet, meditative and rarely
violent, it's filled with music and shadows. There is a running thread
of social commentary although the town and premise are fictional.

Mysterious titular 'Girl' in fictional town named 'Bad Town' stalks the
residents quietly, watching them go about their routines, helping the
weak and good, punishing the crooked and corrupt. We know absolutely
nothing about The Girl, but there is a pattern...unlike women in Iran,
she has a certain, albeit supernatural power, and she uses it to punish
men who have bullied others and wallowed in vices. Even if I'm only
reading into this, I thought this was liberating in the context of the
culture that's old and rich but traditionally repressive against women.

However, The Girl is not some feminist vigilante fixing to destroy the
mankind, just like Eli in Let the Right One In, she protects those in
need. Unlike Eli, The Girl does not look for symbiotic relationship
with disposable humans, the companionship she forms with Arash is of
different nature. Big shout out to Masuka the cat, the talent and
screen presence is fantastic and adorable. One lovely and immersing
cinematic experience, bravo, Miss Amirpour!
<|_=00=_|>
Here's how this film got me into the theater. It sported gorgeous black
and white photography, was filmed in Farsi, and was a vampire art-house
flick. Behind it was the apparently unstoppable hype machine powered by
Vice Films (and Kino Lorber, usually a distributor worth watching) who
promoted the picture beyond its actual appeal, in part with a
dishonestly paced trailer. The ingredients sounded amazing. It was the
perfect bait.

But there's simply no there there. The marketed hallmarks that made it
seem different turn out to mean nothing.

Yes, it's in Farsi, but it's culturally void of anything Iranian beyond
that. It's actually filmed in Bakersfield, California. and while
Bakersfield comes off as starkly cinematic, the whole endeavor feels
extremely western. So if you're going to catch a glimpse into an under-
represented culture, you're not getting that here. It's cool that there
are some great roles for Farsi speaking American actors, but it means
nothing and serves nothing. Even if it had taken place inside the
persian community in Bakersfield that would have been interesting
enough, but that's not the case. This is a fictional, western-pulp
style Iran community called "Bad Town" and it sets up a whole series of
creative decisions made for their cool factor rather than for any
deeper purpose.

Yes, it's an art house flick, but it's least ambitious kind. It
celebrates style over substance. It's about nothing. It assumes that
disaffection equals cool and chooses aesthetic principles over theme at
every turn. It takes stabs at greatness, imitating some of the giants
of the Nouvelle Vague, Post Punk and No Wave cinema (others have cited
Spaghetti Westerns as an influence, but that's only on the soundtrack)
but when all you have is image and music, unsupported by character or
theme, you miss what makes the greats great in the first place.

Yes. It's a vampire movie. And the lead is affecting and beautiful, but
it's yet another "cool" vampire narrative so soon after the great
Jarmusch gave us much of the same with LAST LOVERS LEFT ALIVE. But
Jarmusch is a much more seasoned filmmaker who is able, even in his
most non-narrative attempts, to place emphasis on style AND character
AND theme. LAST LOVERS LEFT ALIVE. LOVERS is more than a music video or
a tonal exercise, GIRL WALKS HOME ALONE AT NIGHT isn't, and it doesn't
aspire to be. It's also not scary or creepy, which it obviously doesn't
have to be, I'm fine with its tone, just don't go in expecting a horror
film. Even still, I do long for the days of a good scary vampire movie.

And so that leaves us only with the gorgeous photography by Lyle
Vincent, which, quite frankly, saves the whole flick. Without it this
would be an intolerable bore featuring a few really strong cinematic
moments. But every shot is truly a joy and the film relies on it almost
completely. If you love beautiful cinematography, than that's it's
saving grace.

Other bright spots. The music is excellent throughout. Sometimes it
rises to even greater heights than the sequence it's supposed to be
supporting, but unquestionably, the director uses music to great
affect. There are some really nice little moments sprinkled throughout.
The final and climactic death is an especially beautifully done piece
of filmmaking and the two leads are lovely and fun to watch in their
few scenes together.

But in the end the movie is more tedious than meditative. It's pretty
obvious it was a short film first, now stretched out beyond its means.
I love the cinema of the slow, but I have to have something to
contemplate if a long languid shot is to have any real hold over me.
There must be something underneath the image and the music, I must feel
that there is some meaning in the exercise, or at the very least that
I'm seeing something fresh and different. And here there is no meaning,
or if there is it's surface and barely qualifies. There's nothing
really new here at all, actually. The parts seem unique but the whole
is tired.

I will, however, be snooping around Amirpour's future films in the
hopes that her aesthetic will one day find an engine of purpose and
that her cinema will have something unique to say.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a bit disappointed to learn after seeing A Girl Walks Home Alone
at Night that it was not an actual Iranian film. Turns out it is
entirely American funded and made in California, it's just that it has
an Iranian director, crew and cast, while it is set entirely in the
Farsi language. When I say I was disappointed it was only that I truly
wanted to believe that a film with such frank scenes of sexuality was
being made in Iran. There has been something of a surge in Iranian
films in recent years, most prominently in the case of the excellent
drama A Separation (2011) and I thought it could be possible that this
was another in this cycle. Alas, but no. Still, that doesn't deter from
the fact that this is a pretty singular bit of work. I suppose the very
fact that it is an Iranian film made entirely with American money is in
itself pretty interesting.

Like another of 2014's best horror films Honeymoon, this one is also
directed by a woman. Ana Lily Amirpour is of Iranian descent but born
in the UK and brought up in America. I guess because of her heritage
coupled with the tensions between America and Iran, many meanings seem
to have been interpreted in this film. I think the truth is that this
is a film with some minor political undercurrents but which takes its
influences far more from cinema itself. Set in a bleak dusty place
called Bad City, a settlement full of drug addicts, vice and despair,
it follows a small group of characters one of which is a female vampire
who roams the streets at night preying on the worst in her society.

It wouldn't be unfair to say that this is an exercise primarily on
style over substance. This doesn't bother me personally, as I enjoy
films that embrace cinematic style. It's typified by great black and
white cinematography with lovely widescreen framing. It is also a
mash-up of film genres with a hero and car which evokes 50's teenage
rebel films, Ennio Morricone inspired music that references spaghetti
westerns, moments that recall the odd tone of David Lynch movies, the
visual look of Francis Ford Coppola's Rumble Fish (1983) and the
revisionist approach to the vampire film typified by Let the Right One
In (2008). When you combine all of these disparate elements together in
an American film shot entirely in Iranian, the result is a very odd
film indeed. I guess you could call this a feminist vampire film, in
that she only attacks predatory and immoral males, while she is quite
far removed visually from the slinky female bloodsuckers from many a
European vampire flick (although there certainly isn't anything wrong
with them!). It also plays on the idea that the Hijab veil looks
similar to the garb of those traditional vampires. It is also
distinctive for having bizarre details such as a prominent cat, a
skateboarding vampire and a soundtrack that mixes Persian music with
new wave influenced western pop. The latter being a particular
favourite of our vampire lady.

My feeling on the film overall is a little mixed. I really appreciated
the visual style and the original aspects inherent in an Iranian
vampire film, while the mix of genres did create something new. On the
other hand, it begins very well and does meander in the second half
somewhat. It would probably have worked better as a ninety minute movie
given the slightness of the material itself. Still, it has to be
praised for going somewhere new and it shows there is always a
different way to approach old ideas.
<|_=00=_|>
In my 5 decades of enjoying film I thought that I had seen every genre 
possible. Musicals, horror, horror musicals, foreign films, cult films 
and independent all. I thought all my bases were covered. But as I sat 
at the Bell Lightbox Theatre for a screening of A Girl Walks Home Alone 
at Night, I was quick to realize that this was the first Iranian black 
and white vampire film to hit my filmography resume.

A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night comes courtesy of writer/director Ana 
Lily Amirpour who took her 2011 short of the same name and stretched it 
into a feature film. A Girl Walks Home at Night focuses on a young 
music-loving female vampire (Sheila Vand) who stalks the streets of Bad 
City casually picking her prey. On a collision course to intersect 
story lines is Arash (Arash Marandi), a young man with a prized car who 
spends his days caring for his heroin addicted father (Marshall 
Manesh). Arash and our vampire antagonist first meet after she feasts 
on a local drug dealer, Saeed (Dominic Rains). Saeed supplied Arash's 
father with the drugs that kept him incapacitated and the family debt 
results in Saeed leaving with Arash's cherished car. When Arash heads 
to Saeed's home in an attempt to reclaim his vehicle he finds Saeed 
bloodied and dead with a briefcase full of drugs and money left 
untouched on the table. Arash takes the briefcase and the new found 
fortune commences a character arc that will eventually lead Arash to 
meeting the vampire girl under a street lamp after a costume party.

The two leads spark up an unlikely relationship with the girl hiding 
her vampire-ism from Arash as the non-sexual bond between the two 
intensifies. But when Arash's father becomes a victim, things become 
complicated and life-altering decisions are made in its wake.

A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night is soft horror. Shot in glorious black 
and white there are some scenes of blood and a few seconds of violence, 
but the film is primarily rooted in the characters and Ana Lily Amipour 
masterfully weaves the tale through familiar ground without losing to 
the temptations of stereotypical checklist horror positions. The 
overall body count is low and there is no abundance of secondary 
characters and sub-plots to deviate from the original story.

Amipour uses a wide range of music from multiple genres which fit 
seamlessly into the story as if she was tutored on the importance of 
music in film by Quentin Tarantino. Some exceptional lighting used for 
shading and shadows made A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night an intriguing 
watch but not necessarily an important one. The film is slow. Maybe too 
slow. And the characters are interesting but not involving. We 
appreciated the style, but wished for there to be more meat on the bone 
to keep us from having to focus on the lighting and music to pull A 
Girl Walks Home Alone at Night from meritocracy. Style took the film as 
far as it could but the lack of anything truly original kept us from 
wanting anything more once the screen finally faded to black.


<|_=00=_|>
In Bad City, Arash (Arash Marandi) is a young man that lives with his
father Hossein (Marshall Manesh), who is drug addicted, and he brings a
stray cat home. Arash has a car that he bought after working for many
years. One day, the drug dealer Saeed (Dominic Rains), who is also a
pimp, takes Arash's car to pay the debts of his father. Saeed abuses of
the prostitute Atti (Mozhan Marnò) and soon he meets a young lonesome
woman (Sheila Vand) and takes her home. However she is a vampire that
attacks abusive men and homeless and she kills him. Meanwhile Arash
steals a pair of earrings from his employee and goes to Saeed's house
to get his car back, but he finds Saeed dead. He brings his car and a
wallet with drugs and money with him and starts dealing drugs with the
users. He goes to a party dressed of Dracula and two girls give drug to
him. Arash wanders through the streets completely lost and he stumbles
with the vampire that brings him home. The vampire meets Atti and then
Arash schedules to meet her during the night in a sort of date and he
gives the pair of earrings to her. In the morning, Hossein trashes the
pictures of his wife and Arash gives money to his father and expels him
from home. Hossein takes the cat and goes to Atti's house and abuses of
her, forcing Atti to use drug. The vampire attacks Hossein and kills
him. Soon Arash finds the body of his father dumped in a wasteland and
he decides to go away from Bad City with the girl. When he meets her,
he finds the stray cat at her home. What will Arash do?

"A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night" is a weird black and white American
vampire movie spoken in Persian. The story is strange and original and
the viewer never knows or can guess what will happen next. This film
has been nominated and won awards in independent film festivals and
does not disappoint those that like to see a different movie. My vote
is seven.

Title (Brazil): Not Available
<|_=00=_|>
"A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night" is a movie that you thought couldn't
exist: an Iran-set movie that mixes the spaghetti western genre with
vampires. In fact, in the opening scene the woman makes a face
reminiscent of some a person in a Fellini movie. Overall, Ana Lily
Amirpour's movie depicts a presumed seedier side of Iran, the sort of
image that you get of a polity in a Quentin Tarantino movie (without
the pop culture references and over-the-top violence). It's set in a
fictional industrial town where the residents have no discernible
future prospects. The vampire reminds me of the vampire in the Swedish
movie "Let the Right One In": she relates to people like any ordinary
human would, and she just happens to be a blood-drinking creature of
the night. Even more eye-opening is the cast: Sheila Vand co-starred in
"Argo" and appeared with Robin Williams on Broadway; Marshall Manesh
co-starred in "The Big Lebowski"; and Mozhan Marnò co-starred in
"Charlie Wilson's War".

I understand that Amirpour's next movie is basically "El topo" meets
"Dirty Dancing", starring Keanu Reeves, Jim Carrey and Jason Momoa
(Khal Drogo on "Game of Thrones"). If this movie is any indication, her
upcoming movie should be a neat one. In the meantime, I recommend "A
Girl Walks Home Alone at Night". Really fun.
<|_=00=_|>
When I was younger, my friends and I would go to the video store and
rent the cheesiest B-Movie title we could find and laugh at the plot
holes and general cheesiness. In college we would do the same on
pay-per-view while we drank and do the same. As expected the B- Movies
mostly had poor production value, needless nudity (usually with just
one character who was into that), and overall didn't take themselves
seriously and certainly didn't pass themselves off as artsy by making
it black and white.

A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night has all the elements of a B-rated
movie, but can't decide whether it wants to be a fun cliché vampire
movie, or a social commentary on the topic drug use and prostitution in
the Iranian community. It can't be both. You can't have a fun movie
with the over-acting of the father smashing things while he's going
through Heroine withdrawal and then have a D-bag pimp dancing to
techno. 

Speaking of the pimp, the whole movie has some of the worst elements of
LA Iranians in general where they use every American Cliché they can
find be it the club, vampires (seriously, the vampire fad was over in
2010), the rave, black and white, the gardener, the wannabe James Dean,
etc. and the movie missed an opportunity to use Iranian elements. As it
stands, this is a cheesy American B movie that uses LA Iranians and
Farsi dialog. That's the extent of the Iranianness of the movie.

Speaking of the dialog, everything about it seemed un-natural and
forced. Non-Farsi speakers reading the sub-titles may not notice, but
for Iranian viewers, it really seems like the script was written in
English and translated to Farsi first. The actors make almost no effort
to become the character or take any risks. It's just dry reading of the
script without passion. The cat had better acting.

It pains me to say this, but Iranian film-makers have a long way to go
if they want to let their presence be known. There are some great
Iranian American Actors - Argo ("the girl" is played by an actress on
that movie), Homeland, SNL, but they need to find an American director
and writer to get over themselves first and put these great actors in a
position to win. 

Anyway, if you want to support Iranian film makers and throw some money
at them, then go watch this, or if you're an American who wants to show
you're artsy by watching films other people don't watch, go watch this.
If you are a little weird, watch this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
"A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night" is an interesting movie. More a
curiosity at moments than a movie with a body and a plot, it ends being
saved by its atmosphere and the cinematography, even if some of its
moments fall into the silly.

A vampire is roaming an Iranian town. She goes around killing 'bad'
men, talking with people and just being very, very shy. She becomes
friends with a young guy. Will she end up killing him?

Who are we kidding. The movie doesn't really care about vampires or
anything. On the other hand, it has a very nice atmosphere and some of
its aspects, like the music or the bleak black and white, give it an
atmosphere close to a Western. The camera-work is good, and the
direction acceptable enough. There are a couple of scenes really good.
The acting, however, is a little bit stilted and, in a couple of
occasions, just too silly. The vampire's movements are hilarious (not
sure if on purpose).

"A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night" ends being a movie that will be
enjoyed more by people who like their movies about atmosphere and
'messages'. Just forget about plot and pace.
