
Just like the mud and the dust on the characters in the film, the
excellent The Rover gets under the skin and remains there, long after
the screen went black.

The story takes place in the Australian outback in the near future
after a collapse. A bitter loner sees his car stolen by a gang and
tries to get it back at all cost with the help of the wounded, simple
brother of a gang member, left behind after a disastrous robbery.

Slow and intense The Rover sucks you into the desert, you can almost
feel the heat and the flies in your face. Few words are used, more is
said by gunshots. Here are no action heroes who at the end clean up the
mess, restore the order and peace and let you leave theater with the
feeling that you were nicely entertained. The people in The Rover are
desperate to such extent that they've almost become indifferent towards
life. They try to survive, period.

The bizarre relationship between the angry loner Eric and the naive,
dependent Rey is wonderfully brought on screen. Both Guy Pearce and
Robert Pattinson deliver brilliant performances. Guy embodies perfectly
the bitter,rude, inner wounded Eric with his body language and the
intense gaze . Robert disappears into Rey, a damaged rather innocent
soul who IMO has been taught to blindly obey and not to think for
himself, in a way that will blow people away. The tics and blinks
belong to Rey, you see them disappear when he feels more at ease,
reappear in situations of stress. The supporting actors are amazing as
well.

Although the film is dark, the mood is not cold IMO. Under the surface
of alienation and cruelty there's a palpable emotional layer of
vulnerability and fear. Michôd created a world frighteningly realistic
and raw, a world we, civilized people, in fact don't want to face. With
his second movie David shows again how incredibly talented he is. 

I was eagerly anticipating The Rover and it met all my expectations.
The performances alone is pure enjoyment together with the beautiful
landscapes and the amazing music score. Some scenes are quite funny
like Rey trying to do his best to be a good partner, or when he's
singing.

There's also a lot to think about after watching The Rover. What
collapse can cause such situation? How far are civilized people willing
to go when there's nothing left to loose? Is Rey mentally disabled or
is he the product of a very unfavorable education?

And why did I think about Animal Kingdom after The Rover had finished?
See the movie and you'll know. 

Sorry for mistakes, English isn't my native language.
<|_=00=_|>
As soon as I saw how slowly this movie moved in the beginning, I knew I
was going to like it. It's a serious film that doesn't care about
having popular appeal.

The writing, directing, and cinematography are all great, but the
acting by Guy Pearce and Robert Pattinson is flawless. They do a
tremendous job, together, of showing what causes each subtle change in
their relationship that leads to a much larger shift in their feelings
about each other.

I have to admit I am the mom of a special needs kid, which may have
made me really focus on the great job Robert Pattinson did of
portraying Rey. The way he showed Rey's desire to be liked by someone
who didn't want a friendship with him brought tears to my eyes. And he
was so real when he showed Eric (Guy Pearce) and the audience that Rey
was much more capable than he seemed. I keep thinking about his speech
problem, and that David Michod (the writer and director) and Robert
Pattinson were so accurate when they initially allowed us to view him
as more disabled than he was because he couldn't express his thoughts. 

In an interview, Robert Pattinson pointed out that Rey couldn't do
anything without someone telling him to, meaning that Rey couldn't
function in a practical sense without another person. I think he is so
close to the character he created that he doesn't see how complex he
made him. The feeling I had was that Rey could function in a practical
sense alone, but emotionally, he couldn't function without
companionship. And that's a big theme in the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll admit I don't watch a lot of Australian cinema. I'll also admit
that I didn't really care a whole lot for Michôd's previous film Animal
Kingdomcertainly not as much as the rest of the world seemed to. So it
was with some amount of skepticism that I went to see The Rover. But I
am really, truly glad that I did.

This is an astonishingly good film, built around a wonderfully nuanced
and rich, but extremely sparsely specified post-apocalyptic Australian
outback setting. We follow Eric (Guy Pearce), a taciturn but brutal
loner, who goes on some kind of personal rampage after his car is
stolen on a remote road. Along the way, he finds Rey (Robert
Pattinson), who he forces to assist him.

The world-building in this film is astonishingly good. Michôd creates a
very bleak environment for his very bleak characters, and hints at the
disaster that left the world in this waypeople only accept US
currency, for example, but the reasons are left tantalisingly absent.
The dusky red cinematography of the outback creates a beautiful
backdrop for the sense of desolation.

Moreover, the performances throughout are superb. Pearce is dangerous
but distant, creating a character who seems to have lost the same
vestige of humanity as has the society in which he now lives. But I was
even more blown away by Robert Pattinson's co-dependent Reynolds, whose
violent actions belie his heart-rending naïveté and fragilityone scene
towards the end of the film where Rey and Eric seem to open up to each
other a little more around a campfire is truly affecting. I'm really
pleased to see Pattinson taking on these sort of roleshe's a truly
great actor, and I'm so pleased that the Twilight franchise didn't ruin
him for the rest of us.

Overall, this film was a truly remarkable and wonderful piece of
cinema. Even though I doubted Michôd after Animal Kingdom, this film
assures me that I will continue seeing his films going forward. This
was an absolute highlight for me, and I hope more broadly marks a
resurgence for Australian cinema on the world stage.
<|_=00=_|>
What a bleak future this film portrays.

Felt like an apocalyptic Western meets old school Road Warrior. Filmed
in the Australian desert, I think they could have financed this film
from loose change at starring actors Guy Pearce and Robert Pattinson's
houses.

Without a doubt the best performance from Robert Pattinson I've seen.
Granted, I've not seen too many Pattinson films but he does a really
good job of playing the half wit brother of one of the dudes jacked
Guy's car.

Mysterious drifter shows up at the filthiest, dingiest outback pub in
Australia just for a glass of water. Three shot up dudes in a truck
crash outside the pub, steal his car and he will stop and nothing,
nothing to get it back.

It's a wonderfully dreary world in which this film is set. Everyone is
so dirty. They should get an Oscar for make up when all the actors did
was not shower for what looks about three months.

Lots of long shots, tension filled chords supply the majority of the
soundtrack.

I really dug it. Most folks are gonna hate it. Very gritty. Very dirty.
Very violent. Very non-Hollywood.

It's a nice piece of cinema. And there's a midget.
<|_=00=_|>
I LOVED this film ! It is a dark, bleak, mature , violent film yet it
is uncompromising and unflinching in the way it tells its tale.I found
it to be a blend of Mad Max, Drive, Apocalypse Now, and Of Mice and
Men. Guy Pearce portrays a man as a feral drifter; a wounded, rabid
animal; a monstrous creature who has lost everything. He does this to
perfection. Rob Pattinson plays a slow, bullied kid from America's
South to a tee! He was simply superb in his nuances, facial tics,
stuttering , and accent to portray a scared, fearful , dependent yet
ever-so- hopeful kid. He is the glue to the film. He is the soul . It
is these two and their journey that IS the film. It is the anarchy of
the souls. Amongst all the bleakness of the post-collapse world, it
hints of the elements of hope, faith, and love. . the need for human
connection. If you like seeing good strong, smart films with quality
acting, then go see this incredible movie ! The cinematography and
musical score are very unique !
<|_=00=_|>
A visually stunning and surreal film which left me perplexed and
amazed. Guy Pierce is a marvel, who knew anyone could do so much with a
script that is about ten words long, 'Under' acting at its best.

I never really thought much of Robert Pattinson up until now but he is
also surprisingly excellent in his risky supporting role. 

Very original, very Australian and definitely not a film for the
masses, it's certainly open to interpretation. Shockingly
violent,dark,gritty, confusing and awkward. But it's the best thing
I've seen in years. 

If you are bored with the ten a penny 'Blockbusters' that Hollywood
churns out by the dozen then I would thoroughly recommend this thought
provoking and refreshingly different film. Ten out of ten.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Rover" is one of those productions that remind me of everything I
love about movies.

The director is a master of his craft, providing us a very captivating
story with a slow narrative. The visual composition impressed me a lot,
along with the great atmospheric soundtrack.

Guy Pearce plays the lead character so well. He deserves to win all
awards that he will be nominated for. But the overall acting is top-
notch, with Robert Pattinson giving a very good performance, totally
immersing himself into his character.

While "The Rover" may not be everyone's taste, I believe anyone who
enjoyed "The Road" or "No Country For Old Men" will like it. And for
me, this is certainly up there with those two films.
<|_=00=_|>
The Rover is an anti-blockbuster mainly because of its rhythm : it is
very slow, therefore preventing many people to stick to it while
watching it. 

What you get here is not some amusement but rather gives material to
think. We're not escaping from existence, like with e.g. Gravity,
Hunger Games or whatever acclaimed propaganda. And it is quite
disturbing as the more we go on watching the movie, the more we
confront with some reflections about our time : there's no more gods,
no more laws and we're getting increasingly isolated. Just the gruesome
reality. People are striving to survive and protect what is theirs
(always material things), though remains some hints of optimism - and
Pattinson is playing quite well on this regard.
<|_=00=_|>
I will admit that The Rover is not the kind of film that will be
admired by mainstream audiences, but those who like to have their films
to be deep, gritty, tense and yet meaningful will find this an
incredible Australian drama to rank alongside not only Animal Kingdom,
but America's The Road and No Country for Old Men.

The story takes place in the Australian outback (around South Australia
in its hot and blistering atmosphere) in the near future after a
collapse. A bitter, silent and loner Eric (Guy Pearce) sees his car
stolen by a gang and tries to get it back at all cost which has value
to him. Asking various civilians (who are fighting to survive in this
world, Eric finds a wounded and yet simple brother of a gang member
named Rey (who was left behind after a disastrous robbery) putting both
Eric and Rey in a intense trip.

What I really enjoyed about The Rover is the fact that the director
David Michôd (Animal Kingdom) chooses to tell a story that appears to
be so realistic that it could happen, I felt that the Economic Crisis
would have been a major backdrop to the story's setting. Character
development and emotion is truly present in this film and both of the
leading actors deliver that to excellence. The use of music too is raw
in some scenes but when music is played it's not the average orchestra
score, it consists the use of sound and deep tones. Lastly as well what
makes the film truly beautiful despite the subject matter is the
cinematography, the out-lands of South Australia are a sight to behold
and the camera shots give a detailed look of the collapsing characters
and their environment.

Summarise, The Rover is indeed a beautiful but dark Drama that will be
only be seen by those interested in the concept and I hope that the
film will go on to win some awards for the efforts of its cast, amazing
direction and quality.
<|_=00=_|>
By definition a rover wanders without a fixed destination. Likewise,
this movie just meandered about for an hour and a half and abruptly
ended. 

The whole thing starts when three people steal Guy Pearce's car and he
goes mad crazy and starts hunting the guys that did it. Early on he
comes across one of the culprits' brother, Robert Pattinson, who had
been wounded and left behind in a robbery gone wrong. So Pearce uses
him to find his car. Along the way they kill several people. They get
to where they're going and they kill some more people, Pattinson dies,
and then we find out why Pearce went murder crazy to get his car back:
because his dead dog was in the trunk and he wanted to bury it. 

Now this whole story takes place 10 years after "the collapse." We
never really find out what the collapse is, but its clear from watching
the movie that the biggest change is that people don't bathe anymore,
because everyone in this movie had a perpetual layer of grime on them.
No doubt this was to make things "gritty" but honestly if a society is
still using paper money to buy and sell things then mankind can't be
that far down the tube, right? 

Anyways, the movie is very well put together, with some good
cinematography and a decent performance from Guy Pearce. But there's
really nothing at the center of the movie. There is absolutely NO
character development for Pearce. We get no insight into his actions
throughout the film because we don't know where he's been and we don't
know where he's going. All we really know is that he really wants his
car back. I think the ending with his dog is supposed to signal that he
lost the last thing on Earth that mattered to him and he now has
nothing left to lose. But if you're really willing to risk your own
life and kill a half a dozen people just to bury your dog then there's
some deeper problems there. Lastly I have to say Robert Pattinson's
performance nearly killed me. He way overplayed his character, which I
think was just supposed to be a little slow, but Pattinson played him
like he was missing a chromosome. And if he was supposed to be a
mentally challenged character then I wonder why he was given a gun in
the first place. Long story short, Pattinson's character was just plain
annoying and he somehow made a deep connection with Pearce's character.
I really couldn't tell you how or why that happened, It just kinda
happened and I suppose the audience is just supposed to accept it.

Overall I rather hated this movie. Still, it's probably better than
half of the other movies playing at your local cinema. But I would
recommend you just stay home and watch (or re- watch) Animal Kingdom,
which is a much better film.
