
The Green Inferno is a standard Eli Roth fare - gore galore,
cannibalism, and occasional humor - set in the Amazon rainforest. The
acting is terrible right off the bat, but thankfully it isn't an issue
halfway through the movie when the body count starts up. The characters
themselves are paper thin, only about 3 of which are given actual
personalities while the others are just fodder for the natives. 

The premise of the movie is disturbing and will sound appealing to most
horror fans, including myself, but the execution leaves a lot to be
desired. Yes, the gore is done very well; as usual Roth uses great
practical effects to create some wince-inducing scenes. The problem is
that the first half of the movie feels like a student film. Really bad
acting, horrific dialogue, and the documentary style filming doesn't
help at all. It's not so much an issue once the characters are
captured, but you aren't able to get immersed into the world from the
get-go so you're never truly frightened or concerned for them when the
bloodshed begins.

The biggest issue is that The Green Inferno isn't scary in the
slightest. Apart from a cheap jump scare near the end, there's little
to no suspense or tension in the movie. It's just a linear storyline
with characters getting killed off one by one with very little left to
the imagination. It also isn't funny. There's maybe two times I
chuckled at the tongue-in-cheek jokes. Most of them come across as
forced, partly due to the acting and partly due to the jokes not being
very funny. Roth tries for a darker, more disturbing atmosphere and he
succeeds, but he sacrificed the potential fun to be had with the film.
It's not terrible - Eli Roth fans will get exactly what they're
expecting - but it also isn't anything new. The Green Inferno is a
decent effort but a wholly mediocre movie watching experience.
<|_=00=_|>
Eli Roth is a director whose fame certainly goes before him. These days
you don't really get many directors unashamedly dedicated to the horror
genre like you did in years gone by. I like Eli Roth for this reason
and I do find him a somewhat engaging, funny and entertaining guy. On
the flip side I would have to say that I have found his output to be
somewhat patchy and uneven. And frustratingly sparse at that. The Green
Inferno is his first feature film as director since Hostel: Part II
from way back in 2007! It's a long time to be out of the game. The
question would have to be has he came back in a good way? Well, despite
the undoubted promise of the central idea, it's a film that is kind of
as frustrating as most of his other work.

The basic idea here is to bring back a type of movie that only really
existed briefly over thirty years ago. The cannibal film was a
particularly notorious sub-genre. Most of the films got banned here in
the UK; some still remain so to this day in their uncut forms. Their
combination of graphic violence, sexual assault and real animal killing
made them real bad boys of the horror genre. Cannibal Holocaust (1980)
is the one film that Roth has mentioned in particular as an influence
and for this viewer it is easily one of the most disturbing films I
have ever seen. Its docudrama, found footage style mixed with a proper
mean-spiritedness made it a pretty gruelling film but very well made.
The Green Inferno takes a decidedly different approach to its material
and it's not always a successful one. Where Holocaust was relentlessly
confrontational, Roth's film is often quite jokey. This approach means
that the tone overall fluctuates wildly but it definitely dissipates
the overall threat posed by the cannibals. The choice of protagonists
points to the change immediately in that it centres on a group of eco
aware students who travel into the middle of the Amazonian rain-forest
to stage a viral protest against some environment destroying workers,
needless to say things take a bad turn and they wind up captive by a
tribe of cannibals. The very fact that the film centres on a group of
students makes this film surely the first cannibal film that doubles up
as a teen movie! It's an awkward combination with a pretty ropey script
and  the main girl played by Lorenzo Izzo aside - unlikable
characters. The social commentary is not so unexpected for this type of
movie, as Cannibal Holocaust had that too but it is modernised
considerably here  the target is after all viral warriors who are more
interested in being famous than for doing the right thing.

So how does it work simply as a horror movie? Well, it certainly has
its fair share of gory violence. But it has less impact than it should
because of the silly jokey tone that permeates it, even once the
students have been captured. Because they aren't taking their situation
seriously enough, it's hard for us in the audience to either
unfortunately. The on-location photography certainly adds a fair bit it
has to be said and the cannibals themselves are quite distinctive too,
in particular the more prominent members of the tribe were somewhat
creepy. I can't help feeling though that if Roth had reigned in the
silly stuff and went full-on with this material with a more disciplined
approach then it would have made for a far better film. It feels
slightly like a missed opportunity and I am sad to say this as I was
really on this one's side and had quite a bit of optimism for it.
<|_=00=_|>
NOTE: slight spoiler in the second last paragraph, duly noted below.

I've always found Eli Roth's films to be mixed bags. GREEN INFERNO is
by far his best picture, but as in most of his other films his
limitations as a dialogue writer are foregrounded too often, albeit
thankfully to nowhere near the extent they were in the RZA's execrable
vanity project MAN WITH THE IRON FISTS. His character development
skills, however, show unexpected signs of refinement during his six
year absence from the director's seat.

In particular, Roth's take on environmental activists -- all of the
main characters in Green Inferno are self-serious, latte-drinking "save
the rain forest" university types who infiltrate a clear-cutting
operation deep in the Amazon jungle and chain themselves to the logging
machinery in order to protest "corporate greed" via satellite linkup
with their iPhones -- cuts effectively deep for a filmmaker not usually
given to social criticism.

Most criticism that could be leveled at the film's dialogue and
subtext, however, is irrelevant since the drawing card for horror buffs
will without question be the exotic, "dangerous" location (which
promises enough stories for multiple gory sequels, according to Roth),
and the copious scenes of torture, dismemberment and cannibalism that
ensue when the protagonists' plane -- possibly due to sabotage, it's
later implied -- crashes into the forest on the return trip home (the
opening protest mission is entirely self-contained, and actually
successful, or so it seems at first). Enter the natives -- reportedly
played by an authentic Chilean tribe, albeit one not prone to dining on
human flesh -- and the feasting begins.

The grisly makeup effects are by a team led by legends Gregory Nicotero
and Howard Berger (who aren't credited at IMDb as of this writing, but
ARE listed in the opening credits of the film), and they certainly
deliver, particularly the squishy, screaming dismemberment that sets
the ball rolling. As far as cannibal movies go, the special effects in
GREEN INFERNO are certainly the most elaborate to date, but considering
the most notable (and notorious) run of this genre happened thirty
years ago, that probably goes without saying.

Manuel Riveiro's full orchestral lends the film an appropriately
ominous sense of portent -- especially when it accompanies sweeping
flyover shots of dense jungle -- and a feeling of scope and import that
belies the fact that GREEN INFERNO is ultimately a throwback/valentine
to the works of Ruggerio Deodato and Umberto Lenzi, almost to the
letter, in particular Lenzi's CANNIBAL FEROX (aka MAKE THEM DIE
SLOWLY). Speaking of those two, Roth's film is actually dedicated to
Deodato, and the credits list most if not all of the films in this
sub-genre that one should probably see or at least be aware of going in
or coming out. At TIFF, Roth claimed this list (along with numerous
tweet handles in the final roll) was simply a great way to insert some
marketing magic directly into the film itself, but one could also read
it as a preemptive strike against critics (and fans) who might realize
just how shamelessly he treads familiar ground with this show and
attempt to dock points for it. Mind you, if enough future audience
members haven't seen any of the late 70's or early 80's Italian
cannibal pictures -- and let's face it, a whole new generation or two
probably doesn't even know they exist -- that might bode well for this
picture, especially via DVD/streaming, as there's nothing like
experiencing a dedicated cannibal movie for the first time, and with a
strong stomach. It's also now very likely that some of GREEN INFERNO's
predecessors will get fancy new Blu-ray re-releases thanks to the
existence of this film. So there's that.

As for gratuitous skin -- always a component of the originals -- Roth
treats us to more of Daryl Sabara's junk than most viewers probably
ever thought they'd care to see, for what that's worth, while for the
likely-to-be-predominantly-male demographic of this type of picture,
Loranna Izzo spends a fair portion of the final act bounding through
the rain forest in a skimpy little muslin jungle bikini (and -- SPOILER
AHEAD!! -- appears oh-so-briefly topless during her FGM "preparation"
scene), while she and a couple of the other actresses have fleeting
moments sans pants getting "examined" by the tribe's cataracted,
jaundice-skinned resident witch doctor and gynecologist. Such as it is,
the skin quotient -- when it's not being ripped and chopped apart, and
cooked and eaten, at least -- is more or less on par with the original
films. Thankfully Roth and company avoid scenes of animal cruelty (even
faked) altogether, so those who uncomfortably recall such
unpleasantness from the Deodato/Lenzi films can rest easy; it's only
the humans who get eaten this time out.

Finally, a dangling subplot involving one character will undoubtedly
serve as the foundation of the just-announced sequel, which reportedly
begins production almost immediately. To be honest, I'd almost
forgotten about this character until the drive home, which was probably
the point all along.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the worst movies I have ever seen. Acting, writing and directing
were just horrid. I actually watched this today, came home, signed up
for IMDb just to say how awful this movie was. Stupid diarrhea scene
for no reason. They just witnessed their friend hacked to pieces and
eaten, then a girl explodes her bowels in the corner of their cage.
What is their reaction? Total disgust and act like they cant get far
enough away from her, really? They acted as if it was the worst thing
that had happened on their trip. Then the random masturbation scene?
Served no purpose. After everything that was done to the lead actress;
beating, raped, almost had her genitals mutilated and she doesn't tell
anyone out in the world that these monsters are running around the
woods? SO DUMB I CANT FATHOM IT!!! While watching this movie I felt as
though I would rather be on the cannibals table then in the movie seat.
Don't waste your time or money on this mindless drivel.
<|_=00=_|>
Since Eli Roth broke out on the scene with his indie CABIN FEVER, he's
never stopped talking about how much influence Cannibal movies were to
him growing up.

Well, it didn't translate to his own film.

This was laughably bad. Bad writing, acting & directing. The one good
thing was the look of the Cannibal tribe. They looked like a remote
tribe of cannibals.

There are WAY too many issues to list. I'll keep it to 3.

1) A couple ounces of weed stuffed into the mouth of a human, who's
then cooked would NOT turn an entire village into goofy messes.
Unfortunately, this wasn't just a "dumb" horror film moment. It was a
plot point. Roth & his co-writer NEEDED the village to be distracted
for 2 of the kids to escape. AND THIS IS WHAT THEY CAME UP WITH?

The MAIN problem Roth has is with the villagers. He clearly doesn't
know what he wants them to be and he doesn't take a side. The Villagers
are shown as victims and just in their actions in some scenes and then
barbaric, erratic & just vicious for vicious sake in others.

While I understand they are cannibals, Roth doesn't give the audience
any clue he knows who they are. They seem to have principles &
traditions, then seem to ignore them. They seem to be extremely well
organized one moment, and then the 3 Stooges the next. They are expert
sharpshooters hitting people 50 yards away through heavy foliage one
scene, and the next won't/can't hit a character in the wide open.

Why were some humans sedated at the plane crash & why were others bow &
arrowed to the head?

2) The Almost female circumcision scene. This scene served no purpose,
it was completely "attempted shock" for "attempted shock" purpose and
not for anything that in any way made sense. I say "attempted" shock,
but nothing happens. It was supposed to make you squirm, but this scene
was stupid & shows that not only did Roth NOT know the natives he
created, but, IMO, took a massive step BACK as a filmmaker.

We are told early in the film's WAY TOO LONG exposition setup, that
tribes around the world, including in S. America, view the horrible act
of female circumcision as a right of passage from being a girl to being
a woman. Horrible but that's what they think.

When the humans are brought into the village, they're treated like
food. The pigs are kicked out of the pen & the humans put in the pen.

Now, either the villagers are truly cannibals or they simply eat the
captured people they believe to be enemies. The kids weren't their
enemies, but they were wearing the clothes of the construction guys, so
they mistake them for their enemy.

So, they are either simply eating the kids b/c they're food or that
consuming the bodies of the enemies make them stronger.

So why on Earth would they care about circumcising their food before
they consume it? Why would they care if the lead girl goes from being a
"girl" to "woman" before they eat her?

Roth goes out of his way to explain that this is a time honored
tradition for the natives. Why would they show their food/enemy the
same respect they show their blood? Do they circumcise the pigs before
they cook them too?

No. It was all simply to make the audience wince. And it didn't.

3) Lastly - and most importantly - it wasn't scary. I have to wonder if
Roth even ever watched ANY Cannibal movies.

Roth may have peaked with HOSTEL. I personally think HOSTEL 2 was
better, but I think I'm alone there. This was a huge letdown.
<|_=00=_|>
If Eli Roth is known for one thing, it's that he is known for high
levels of violence in his films and pushing the envelope. And The Green
Inferno is no exception, it's easily the most graphic movie of the year
to receive a theatrical release. The movie features some extremely
cringe-worthy scenes where the villages show no mercy to the young
students. Of course, this is the focal point of the movie, the
gore/torture of these somewhat arrogant, twenty somethings. 

Yes, there is some social commentary in the movie, mostly poking fun at
today's society and how everyone wants to 'appear' to be fighting for a
cause when in fact, they are doing very little. And yes, he has a point
here, but it isn't as thought provoking as he wants it to be,
especially once the carnage starts and those ideas fly out the window.
Only for those ideas to awkwardly return at the end of the movie.

There is not much to say about this movie other than the obvious, it's
extremely violent, nothing more nothing less. The Green Inferno is
obviously a homage to those 80s cannibalistic horror movies. Which
means the body count is high and the foreigners are going to be
punished by the natives in some of the most cruel ways imaginable (at
least since the SAW series). But I can't help but feel a bit letdown
after years of build up with the movie being stuck in release hell.

While The Green Inferno isn't on par with other strong horror
contenders for best horror movie of 2015, it is easily the nastiest,
most violent movie of the year. Thus, if the torture-porn genre is your
cup of tea, then look no further, you've found your next fix!
<|_=00=_|>
A movie inspired by the ultra-violent 70's Italian cannibal movies
seems perfect for a director like Eli Roth. If you're not a fan of his
films already, this won't win you over, but if you his brutal,
tongue-in-cheek horror, The Green Inferno is a perfectly serviceable
gore-fest. The Green Inferno follows Justine, a freshman in college who
joins a student activist group that plans to save the Amazon rain
forest. But these guys aren't just all talk: they are going to go
directly to a village in Peru to rescue it from impending bulldozers
before the village is destroyed, and their mission is successful. They
rejoice on the plane ride back home, but their celebration is short
lived as the plane crashes somewhere in the vast sea of green. Soon
enough, they are taken hostage by a cannibalistic tribe and must escape
before they are turned into someone's next meal. Like Roth's previous
films, The Green Inferno takes its time before unleashing hell on the
victims. The crew doesn't actually encounter the cannibal tribe until
about 45 minutes into the plot, so when the violence comes, it really
packs a punch. You'll definitely want to finish your popcorn early.
Unfortunately, the movie doesn't have much of a plot after the group
gets captured, so a lot of it is focused on the gruesome death scenes.
I have to give credit where it's due, though. There are some really
hard to watch scenes in this, and that's exactly what this movie wants.
However, what makes The Green Inferno not just your average torture
porn flick is how stylish it is and some darkly funny writing. The
humor does sometimes get a little unnecessary at times, but there are
many times where I had a laugh with the movie. Mainstream audiences
won't appreciate how it homages classic cannibal flicks, but Eli Roth
fans should be satisfied with a suitably nasty descent into hell.
<|_=00=_|>
Opening Day. Waited 2 years. Pretty dazed and confused, and I just want
to put on the record that there is a vibe in the flow of this film that
gives the impression it's been sliced and diced up and put back
together again for reasons that hopefully will leak out at some point.
This seems like a movie torn from it's director's hands, and
homogenized for American audiences.

Keep focusing on the fact that Eli Roth is not stupid, and during this
2 year waiting period and reading about the stages it went through,
SOMETHING had to be causing the delays. This was intended as a homage,
or re-imagining of Cannibal Holocaust, and seeing Mr. Roth's arc of
history, he had a blueprint to go off on that it looks like at first he
was going to do.

I am willing to bet there are HOURS of footage he shot that went
unused, allusions to the original "Holocaust" gore, yet they are like
writing full sentences as part of a paragraph, then all of a sudden,
the sentence just "stops" - and if you know the source material - you
know precisely why the action stops, and it's because it would have
been a bridge too far for American audiences. There are several times,
we get the foreshadowing (like someone taking a p*ss, not a spoiler)
that is clearly a setup for something that happened in Cannibal
Holocaust, yet you see the lead up . . . .the pitch . . . .and then
there's no hit. It was clearly ripped out. Hollywood ruins everything
with it's formulas. My hope was Eli would wield some power, and do what
the French have been doing and break some ground in the horror /
thriller genre. I don't like that I hated this experience tonight. I
was pulling for it. If you were hoping for a new level, you still can
only go to the French, with Haute Tension, Inside, Frontier(e)s, and
Martyrs. They leave Hollywood in the dust. 

Sure, it was aggravated by several cringe worthy moments of dialogue,
but it was mostly tight. The lead actress was amazing and nearly
carried the entire picture on her shoulders. The villain's arc
completely unbelievable and cartoon-ish. 

Greg Nicotero from the Walking Dead did the effects, and I was
salivating for how much more he was going to get away with than he
could on television, yet this was LESS than we see on a weekly basis
with Walking Dead! Less gore than television? The Cannibals of Terminus
arc was infinitely more visually horrifying than this. I didn't have to
look away once. The laughter in the theater tonight didn't come at the
right parts either. No one would be cracking jokes in these characters
situations.

Say what you will about Hostel - it reinvented the genre a bit for
American audiences, and caused the creation of the idiotic expression
"torture porn" to roll off everyone's lips in an excuse to explain
breaking new ground.

I've never heard of a completed film of this nature delayed for so long
without explanation. I think the original vision is shut down, I think
major moments were cut, and knowing the blueprint of Cannibal
Holocaust, the ending is particularly infuriating because anyone with a
film background knew where the ending was headed - yet in a series of
strange edits that reek of "post post production tag ons", we seem
setup for a damn sequel. Jammed into the middle of the credits,
seriously? Half the audience was gone. That's the most disgusting
torture of the night.
<|_=00=_|>
The Green Inferno (2013) 

** 1/2 (out of 4)

A group of college students decide to head to South America where
they're going to protest some developers who are damaging the rain
forest and threatening a tribe that has lived there for thousands of
years. Their plan doesn't quite work when their plane crashes in the
jungle and soon the survivors have the unlucky fate of being served up
for dinner.

Eli Roth's homage to the Italian cannibal movies of the 70s and early
80s is a rather mixed bag. After the movie was over I really didn't
know what to think about it because there had been so much hype built
around it. For the most part I don't think the film lived up to the
hype but this is going to depend on your knowledge of the genre. If you
have no idea what CANNIBAL HOLOCAUST, EATEN ALIVE and CANNIBAL FEROX
are then there's a great chance that you're going to be shocked and
horrified at what you see here. If you're familiar with those films
then you're going to see THE GREEN INFERNO as a watered down American
film.

Again, it's really hard to judge this movie but I'm overly familiar
with the Italian cannibal movies so let me get that out of the way. I
think this film is going to shock, outrage and gross out the majority
of the people who watch it as there's no question that this contains
some of the most graphic and goriest violence that has ever been in an
American film that had to go in front of the MPAA. How this got a
R-rating is rather shocking in itself and it really makes you laugh
when you watch something like this and think at one point something
like SCREAM had to be cut to avoid a NC-17 rating. Again, the gore
effects are rather great with many practical effects that are quite
effective. The gore and violence, again, will shock most people.

With that said, if you're familiar with the brutal films in the genre
then you're not going to blink an eye here. There's really nothing
shocking, outrageous or too graphic if you're familiar with the films
that I mentioned before. This movie certainly doesn't have the animal
violence but it also doesn't have the graphic rape, mutilations or any
of the infamous moments from those films. You'd think that this homage
would wink at those movies and their graphic moments but the film
doesn't even try. This just gives the movie an overall watered down
feel that fans of the genre are going to notice and especially when you
consider that there's not even any real nudity in the picture. If you
can't show nudity then you know certain elements of violence aren't
going to be shown.

I think another disappointing thing is that the jungle settings really
aren't used. Those Italian movies worked so well because you could
enjoy them as adventure stories but that's not the case here. I will
say that the build-up was a lot more entertaining than I expected it to
be because the violence doesn't happen until the last portion of the
movie. The performances are certainly better than you'd expect with
Lorenza Izzo making for a good and likable lead. The story itself is
okay with some sly humor thrown in at times but then again there are
some really stupid moments. There's one girl in the cage who gets
"sick" and this scene is just downright stupid. There's an incredibly
awful jump scare towards the end, which will have you rolling your
eyes.

THE GREEN INFERNO is a decent movie but at the same time it doesn't
quite live up to all the hype that people have created for it the past
couple years.
<|_=00=_|>
how low have the American populace become to think that we are as
stupid as the characters in this film? The entire film is just an
exercise in hoping the mains get killed because they are so stupid and
idealistic.. and the end is even more disappointing. I found myself
actually cheering the savages when the were eating the idiots... Thank
you for making this world worse by promoting this crap.

I am not sure how to explain how much this movie offended me and my
sense of common sense. The idiot who was to scared of snakes to urinate
or his efforts to avoid the flesh eating disease that was infecting the
gun he was given to ward off snakes. Or the idiot who ran his face into
the still spinning aircraft propellor. These were a bunch of starry
eyed college idiots trying to change the world with cell phones rather
then something real.

I hope the average American is not as stupid as what is portrayed in
this film.

This movie is stupid...
