
As several critics have observed, this wonderful film, just shown at
TIFF, is destined to become this year's King's Speech (which began its
Oscar run in Toronto too, though Philomena has already picked up
accolades in Venice). Both British films have strongly emotional
undercurrents leavened by wry humour, feature outstanding performances
from the leads and are based on true stories.

Judi Dench, as the Irish woman whose out-of-wedlock son is taken from
her by Catholic nuns and sold to a rich American couple in the 1950's,
has never been better. She imbues the role with a mix of wisdom (after
all, as she reminds us repeatedly, she was nurse for 30 years) and
naivet√© that would seem to be impossible were it not so deftly handled.
While the cynical atheist portrayed by Steve Coogan rarely misses an
opportunity to poke fun at her, more often than not she enjoys the last
laugh.

Despite the consummate acting, and Frears' slick directing, the
greatest treat of the film is Steve Coogan's screenplay. Given its
subject matter, the story could easily have veered into melodrama, but
just when it is on the verge of doing so Coogan pulls us back from the
edge. Thankfully, Coogan himself is there to convey precisely the
proper blend of sarcasm and compassion.
<|_=00=_|>
Having lived the mother-baby home experience in Ireland (born at
another of the Sacred Heart homes, Bessboro, in Cork in 1960, and
trafficked to the US in 1961) and working as an advocate for the rights
of adopted people and survivors of Irish Magdalene Laundries for more
than twenty years, I'm always prepared to be either underwhelmed or
angry at the film industry's ineptitude with subjects like this, I have
to say I have not been as pleasantly surprised since Mike Leigh's
excellent 'Secrets and Lies' and Peter Mullan's superb 'The Magdalene
Sisters'. Frears, Coogan, Dench et al give Philomena's very true story
such punch, truth and pathos, a heady accomplishment given the subject
matter.

I look forward to the film's US release and urge my fellow 'Banished
Babies' to see it, although I recommend going with support as it's very
triggering. Let's hope Philomena's strength and tenacity, so powerfully
portrayed by Dame Judy, coax more mothers living in shame and denial to
reach out to their lost children before it's too late.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife talked me into going, I wanted to see Captain Philips but she
was adamant this time. We both grew up in Ireland and I didn't want to
see another one of those movies focused on stereotypes, the marketing
blob types like the Quiet Man and Ryan's Daughter...stereotypical
nonsense that lampoon our history and our culture. Steve Coogan and
Judy Dench, especially Judy got it just right from the very start. They
were smart, witty, serious and most of all, Judy was 'Irish' They
really got the spirit of an Irish mom, that cocktail of guilt,
generosity, inferiority and a heart to care for the entire world spot
on. Dench in the hotel thanking everybody for being 'so nice' and
getting who her son was as a child as others were today trying to
'break the news' to her...she wasn't just a step ahead, she was years
ahead. Really excellent, really well done. Beautiful!
<|_=00=_|>
Steve Coogan deserves utmost respect for producing and writing this
film. His script is excellent, consistently witty and engaging on the
surface whilst spinning many more layers beneath the surface which
became unconsciously stirring. Normally with these kinds of films I
find the humour becomes contrived, forced or inappropriate, like the
writers/director buckle under a need to impress and please the
audience. You won't find those jarring moments here - Philomena is
expertly judged and balanced. The story itself is fascinating, and
again Coogan's script steers clear from overt sentimentality to allow
the humanity to speak for itself. A gentle, funny, heartbreaking and
unforgettable film. I actually much prefer it to the Kings Speech.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes I get the feeling filmmakers have lost their way. Formulas
work and make the basics irrelevant so we get carbon copy blockbusters
appealing to the masses clearly showing a reckless disregard for what
filmmaking is all about: visually telling a story. And then a film like
Philomena comes along and reminds us of the magic that can happen when
a true craftsman and artist skillfully blends the basic ingredients of
story, character, camera, and music into an exhilarating and powerful
work of art. This film is satisfying at every level and gives me hope
that some people still know what they are doing when they take the
money and do their job effectively. The folks on this one should be
extremely proud of their efforts.
<|_=00=_|>
The most remarkable thing about Stephen Frears' remarkable film
"Philomena" is just how unsentimental and just how funny it actually
is. Human Interest stories, the phrase Martin Sixsmith, (played
superbly here by Steve Coogan), uses to describe exactly what it is he
is doing in taking on the case of Philomena Lee, usually leave me cold
for the very reasons Sixsmith describes in the film. But this is no
ordinary 'human interest' story but a study of goodness triumphing over
evil in a very real sense for surely Philomena Lee, as portrayed here,
is a truly good person and the system she found herself fighting,
though hardly by choice, namely the Catholic Church in Ireland, is in
this instance anyway, evil. It's a heart-wrenching story but told with
a good deal of natural humour and a distinct lack of lachrymation,
(though you would need to have a heart of stone or no heart at all not
to be moved to tears). The director is Stephen Frears who almost takes
a back seat and lets the tale tell itself. The script is by Coogan and
Jeff Pope and it beautifully encapsulates the book that Sixsmith wrote
about Philomena Lee's search for the son who was taken away from her by
Irish nuns and sold to an American couple simply because she had given
birth out of wedlock at a time when such 'sins' were considered almost
unforgivable. But Philomena never displays bitterness nor does she feel
hatred. It simply isn't in her nature and in the end it is she who
forgives rather than feel the need to ask for forgiveness. All the
performances are first-rate and in the title role Judi Dench is simply
phenomenal. This could so easily have become a display of actorly
histrionics but Dench underplays almost to the point of invisibility.
We certainly never see Dench up there on the screen but the incredible
woman she is playing. Her performance is heart-breaking but then so is
the whole film. Oscars are just not good enough.
<|_=00=_|>
The film starts with the message that it is based on true events.
Although you might wonder what was changed for the film, you soon
forget that and accept it as a whole. In short it was brilliant. It
could have been a predictable story but instead it had other dimensions
and took unexpected directions with strong characters and some humour.
I thought I knew an outline beforehand and was pleasantly surprised
when that part was covered in the first twenty minutes. It was
intriguing where the story would take us and that happened a few more
times later. In addition to Philomena's journey, there was also Martin
Sixsmith's journey from the beginning as just a detached journalist
doing a human interest story on someone, whom he thought was beneath
him, to being totally involved and offering not to publish it. To
illustrate the depths of this film you can see how it attacks cruel,
narrow-minded, sanctimonious Catholicism and at the same time shows how
the faith gave strength to Philomena and the ability to forgive rather
than to wreak vengeance. The acting was totally convincing. It is going
to be a competitive year but Judy must be up for another Oscar. Just
watching Steve Coogan's almost imperceptible expressions of irritation
as Philomena told him the interminable plot of the book she had just
been reading, was wonderful. This is definitely the best film I have
seen all year. After writing this I read the interview with Martin
Sixsmith on the Guardian web-site. It fills in more detail about
Michael Hess (Anthony Lee) but confirms the whole truth of the story.
<|_=00=_|>
*****May Contain Spoilers***** This heart-warming and humorous drama
screened at TIFF this year and I was lucky enough to see this premiere,
and this film stars Dame Judi Dench, Steve Coogan, Mare Winningham, &
Michelle Fairley. "Philomena" comes to us from director Stephen Frears,
and he has been a very successful director for a very long time with
films the likes of "The Queen" & "High Fidelity" going all the way back
to "The Grifters" & "Dangerous Liaisons".

This tale tells of a woman in her mid to late 60's named Philomena, and
she is and has been in search of her long lost son for many years. As a
young teenager she got into trouble and gave birth to a baby boy out of
wedlock. Now in a last chance effort for Philomena she contacts a
disgraced journalist to enlist his help in finding her son. This writer
is Martin Sixsmith and he is coincidently very much in need of
something in his life at this moment, and together he and Philomena
embark on a journey of parental heartache while tackling new frontiers
within themselves.

Well people I will start by saying that director Stephen Frears has
picked up right where he left off with "The Queen". He seemed to have
struggled here and there for a few years, but he is at the top of his
game for the second time in the last two attempts. This filmmaker has
created drama that is compelling, laugh out loud funny, and solidly
entertaining all at the same time, and his direction unfolds the story
in a smooth and even manner. Frears knows exactly when and where to be
serious, he knows when to lighten the story, and most of all he always
keeps the film interesting. There is a plot reveal in the beginning of
the second act and it really could've dampened the mood and tone of
"Philomena", but instead this director constantly takes us into fresh
and enjoyable territory.

The screenplay is delivered by star Steve Coogan & Jeff Pope and
together they have countless television writing credits to their names,
but I am totally shocked at just how fulfilling a feature film that
they have crafted with "Philomena". These screenwriters consistently
fill this film with doses of wit and charm, but those moments surround
a very interesting and investigating tale. They have created a story
full of rich and full characters, and these characters deliver their
lines brilliantly. The spoken dialogue is out-and-out bold at times,
and even some of the humorous lines had quite an edge to them. On top
of all of this the movie is very touching and sincere, and you'd better
bring a box of Kleenex when you see this because many were weeping all
around me. People will be crying for moments both happy and sad as the
tale plays out, but the entire movie will resonate with most people for
a while after the end credits have stopped rolling.

This takes me to the driving force of this feature, and that would be
to stars Judi Dench & Steve Coogan. Dame Judi Dench delivers to us a
wonderful turn on the silver screen, and her performance is quite
unique because few can find the line between warm, cordial, and direct
all in the same film. She very much sheds her usual hard edge in favor
a lovely and humane role. She opens the audience up to a motherly love
and passion for finding a child that has been long since gone, and at
the same time she swears and brings a blunt truthfulness to many scenes
throughout the movie.

Then Steve Coogan trades in his usual straight comedic portrayal and
instead gives us what I would say is his best work on the big screen to
date. His work as Martin Sixsmith is a wonderful slice of drama, and
his combination of serious & light humor couldn't have worked more
brilliantly. Coogan must have had a real passion for this project
because he serves as screenwriter and producer as well as star, and you
can see that passion when you're watching the end result. He is a
character that is maturing into a new spot in his life, and to me as an
actor he has accomplished the exact same thing.

Now together Dench & Coogan are quite a character all their own, and
the brilliant banter between them was definitely the motor that drove
this story. "Philomena" thrives on the great and constant
confrontations between Martin and his older counterpart, and these two
performers actually get the best acting out of each other. The more
that they are together in the film the better the movie gets, and as
the film plays on they both learn and grow as people because of their
interaction together. Just like "Midnight Run" this movie doesn't work
without both the ying and the yang, and would have fallen apart without
cooperation.

At right around 1 hour and 40 minutes "Philomena" was nothing short of
a bright shining jewel of a film. This is one of the most moving and
pleasantly constructed features that I have seen all year, and I could
easily sit through this one again when it gets a wide push across the
country. The two lead characters work so incredibly well together that
they should consider working with each other more often. If you are a
Judi Dench fan this movie is a must-see, if you are a Steve Coogan fan
this is a must-see, and if you are a fan of truly great movies¬Öthen
this feature is for you as well. This movie is absolute perfection &
that's why Nick's Reel Screen Review is a perfect 4 stars out of 4, and
that's for one of the year's best in "Philomena".
<|_=00=_|>
Fabulous piece of work by all concerned. We get to see all sides of a
single story without excessive back flips, cartwheels and other
cinematic tricks. Coogan has got the measure of this story and pulls
off a truly convincing performance as Sixsmith whilst Dench almost
manages to do an entire film with a dialect....occasionally lapses but
you may not notice. This is a real tear-jerker at points, thought
provoking at many junctures and full of ironic humour. That's quite a
feat and the more enjoyable for being so. I presume the timescale is
roughly ten years ago so attempts at getting tech right for the period
is still possible - amazing that so recent history can seem like
centuries ago when we see old technology in use. I can see this film
being a 'classic' long before it reaches any real age. Its the 21st
century version of a 19th century Dickens tale, that it is.
<|_=00=_|>
Steve Coogan is in danger of becoming a good actor. After the dull thud 
that was Alan Partridge: Alpha Papa, 2013 has seen Coogan turn heads as 
Paul Raymond in The Look of Love and more than hold his own in What 
Massie Knew. And now comes Philomena, which he co-wrote, co-produced 
and stars alongside Judi Dench.

Based on the 'human interest' story of Philomena Lee (Dench) written by 
out of favour journalist Martin Sixsmith (Coogan), Philomena recounts 
the true story of a devout Catholic girl who was abandoned by her 
father at a convent when she fell pregnant out of wedlock. The nuns at 
the convent, while abusing the many girls in their care and subjecting 
them to what accounted to slavery, ran a sideline business in selling 
their babies to rich Americans. Fifty years after the theft of her son, 
Philomena, riddled with good old Catholic guilt, goes in search of her 
son aided by Sixsmith but the nuns, not content with their initial 
abuse and kidnapping, weave a shroud of lies to thwart her.

For those who have seen Peter Mullan's excellent The Magdalene Sisters, 
or read the news any time over the past couple of decades, you'll be 
very familiar with the many indiscretions of the Catholic church and 
the multitudinous cover-ups that have ensued. If ever there was need 
for yet another reason not to be Catholic, Philomena is it. But Coogan 
and director Stephen Frears are at pains not to make this a 
catholic-bashing exercise. Wrongs are highlighted and they cannot 
change the opinions of the viewers, but judgment of specific 
individuals is held at bay. In the final act, though it's not a huge 
shock, there is hope given for humanity, regardless of religion.

Philomena is a simple story of huge consequence and heartbreak. So 
often one finds oneself thinking evil thoughts and relief that it 
happened to someone else, and that is a fine achievement of the 
director. He unravels the story as he loosens the binds on his 
characters. Certain elements feel too good to be true and we find 
ourselves dreading the Hollywood veneer that often coats 'based on 
truth' stories, but Frears never falls into that trap and stands fast 
to tell the truth. Frears is back to the form of 2006's award-laden The 
Queen, and Philomena, complete with another Dame in the title role, 
looks like taking more gold before the award season is out.

Judi Dench is wonderful here, but then how often is she anything but? 
She brings much gentle humour to the role of a woman who has lived a 
very simple life of toil, secrets and hidden emotions, who is unaware 
that the drinks on her flight are free. It is easy to view her as a 
woman from the backwaters with no experience of the real world, and 
then she drops statement that makes it perfectly clear she is aware of 
the world around her; she just chooses not to engage in all of its 
activities and attitudes. It is an uncomplicated performance that feels 
very true, very real and is very affecting. One hopes that the real 
Philomena is at ease and comforted by Dench's respectful portrayal.

Coogan continues to be a revelation. Gone (finally) is his reliance on 
Alan Partridge idiosyncrasies and instead he has climbed into a 
character that is real and flawed in a natural way. It's not a 
performance that is going to make jaws hit the floor but he plays 
assuredly against Dench, ensuring she has something more than a plank 
to react to. His next big screen outing, Northern Soul with Antonia 
Thomas (Sunshine on Leith) is suddenly a very attractive prospect.

Philomena is one of those fine cinema experiences that leaves one 
questioning one's own capacity for resilience and forgiveness. Whilst 
the crimes are heinous, is anything truly unforgivable? More than that, 
Philomena is a film that lingers. It is never going to have the wow 
factor of, say, Gravity or bring forth the smiles Sunshine on Leith, 
but it is fine story worthy of your attention an accolades.

Just not if you're a certain type of nun.


