
I've always had a lot of respect for the "Paranormal Activity" movies,
if not a whole lot of love. "Paranormal Activity: The Ghost Dimension"
(R, 1:28) is the sixth installment in the series, which has scared up
about $1 billion in ticket sales worldwide, against less than $25
million in production expenses. The original "Paranormal Activity"
(2009) was filmed in the house owned by Oren Peli, who was the film's
producer, director, writer, cinematographer and editor. Peli made that
film for $15,000 and it ended up earning nearly $200 million worldwide
 almost 13 THOUSAND times what it cost. This, of course, was the film
that started that billion dollar franchise and, co-produced by Jason
Blum, helped establish Blumhouse Productions, which eventually brought
horror fans the "Insidious", "Sinister" and "The Purge" films, as well
as the Best Picture Oscar Nominee "Whiplash" in 2014. Now THAT'S a
success story that anyone who has ever tried to make a buck on their
own idea or vision has to respect but what Movie Fans really want to
know about a movie is whether it's any good. That's what matters to us.

Personally, I liked all of the "Paranormal Activity" movies but I
didn't LOVE them. As they were bringing us creative stories, helping to
turn the found-footage subgenre from a novelty into a viable filmmaking
option, redefining horror movies for the 21st century and giving
audiences thrills, chills and our fills of plot twists, there was a
downside to the fun. For one thing, the "Paranormal" movies did what
the "Fast & Furious" series did  give us films out of the sequence of
the overall narratives of its characters  but even tougher to keep
straight. The other problem with the "Paranormal" films has always been
a lack of action. Although they've put some scary and interesting
moments on the screen, in most of the movies, not a whole lot happens 
especially in the first one which seems overly dependent on the single
big payoff at the very end of the film. The advertising for "The Ghost
Dimension" promises a franchise-capping story that will answer all of
the fans' questions and take us where no "Paranormal Activity" has
taken us before. The question is whether the sixth installment gives
the series the ending fans deserve.

"Paranormal Activity: The Ghost Dimension" takes place in 2013, after
the events of "Paranormal Activity 2" and reflective of the events in
"Paranormal Activity 3", from a present-day perspective. Young married
couple Ryan and Emily Fleege (Chris J. Murray and Brit Shaw) move into
a house built on the land where the home of Katie and Micah stood in
the first film. Ryan and Emily have a little girl named Leila (Ivy
George), whom they call Lee, and Emily's sister Skyler (Olivia Taylor
Dudley) lives there too. When Ryan's brother, Mike (Dan Gill), newly
separated from his wife, comes to stay for a couple weeks, there are
then enough unsuspecting people in the house for the ghosts to begin
tormenting.

While setting up Ryan's Christmas decorations, Ryan and Mike come
across a mysterious box that Ryan says isn't his. Inside there is a
series of VHS video tapes and an old, but uniquely upgraded video
camera. The tapes show the young Kristi and Katie, circa 1988, being
introduced to Toby (as in the third film) and being taught to make the
most of their psychic abilities. That camera has the ability to see and
record spectral phenomena. As Ryan and Mike try to figure out what's
really happening on those tapes and record increasingly prominent
ghost-like apparitions, Lee is observed talking to an invisible
"friend" and behaving very oddly. At first, the Fleeges try to solve
the mystery and protect the little girl themselves. They eventually
call in a priest (Michael Krawic), but it starts to look like it might
all be too little, too late.

"Paranormal Activity: The Ghost Dimension" is a very disappointing
ending to the groundbreaking series. The film suffers from the same
malady as all the others  not enough action and not enough dread until
the very end. The special effects are good, with paranormal wisps of
black smoke looking a lot like those in "Crimson Peak", and the 3-D
gives a very nice depth to the shots of that wide-open house and those
spectral images and it serves the few brief action scenes pretty well.
Unfortunately, contrary to what the movie's advertising would lead us
to believe, our peek into the Ghost Dimension is frustratingly
fleeting, with even the "Poltergeist" remake doing a better job of
showing us "the other side". This movie has a half-way decent climactic
scene, but the story's ultimate resolution and the final image on the
screen elicited dissatisfied groans from my fellow theater patrons.
Although I settled for the more subtle eye roll myself, I felt their
pain. Basically, this movie gives us the standard "Paranormal Activity"
formula, but without a worthwhile payoff. Much like the ghosts that the
films portray, the 2015 installment shows that the "Paranormal
Activity" movies have outlived their usefulness and should just fade
away. "C-"
<|_=00=_|>
Oren Peli must be mortified that this movie "follows" his sleeper hit,
the original Paranormal Activity. I have seen each of the following
films - in theaters, I must add. After PA 4 (the worst one until this
one), I had little to no expectations for this movie. Somehow, I was
still disappointed. This movie takes everything that made the humble
Paranormal Activity good and does the polar opposite, such as replacing
the long, tense silences with synthy sound effects of the physical
evidence of Toby moving around the frame. Too much is shown and too
little explained. And really? 3D? I left the theater only thinking that
there could be another one, and that fact alone is scarier than
anything in the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Remember Saw? Remember what happened to that franchise? After becoming
a Halloween staple, it was immediately overshadowed by the newer,
fresher Paranormal Activity series, with the last Saw using 3D as a
final resort to churn out one more film from the dying franchise. Now,
we're seeing the same thing from Paranormal Activity. In fact, the
desperation to milk one last film is apparent, and it's sad. Alas, this
is the cycle every horror franchise goes through. I have to admit, I
personally enjoyed this series longer than I would expect. To call PA4
disappointing is an understatement, but The Marked Ones made up for it
and surprised the hell out of me.

However, TGD is easily the worst film in the series, one of the worst
films of the year, and a sad, cynical, soulless attempt to salvage
whatever is left from this franchise. There's literally nothing
memorable here, nothing iconic. It's all so generic and inept, from the
constant jump scares, to the forgettable actors, to the 3D, which is
used in the most clichéd way possible. The story doesn't make a lick of
sense compared to all the buildup in the previous films, most likely
due to the noticeable absence of Christopher Landon, who wrote all the
sequels up until this point. And why the hell did it take two years for
four writers to write the script? Was that really necessary? Overall,
there's not much to be said about TGD because there's not much to
actually talk about. By the time of writing this review, I've already
forgotten about 90% of the movie, and you will too. So don't watch it.
You don't need to see the activity. Whatever you come up with in your
imagination is probably far scarier than this movie would ever dream to
achieve.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't even know if I want to do the review of this film. I feel like
my review has more depth than the plot of this film. Good lord, I try
to keep these reviews as professional as I can. I even try not to
include spoilers, because I want people to go out and see the movie
themselves, but good lord in heaven, I mean it quite literally, this
film was possibly the biggest let-down all year. You can't spoil
something like this, because there's nothing to spoil. I don't feel
like the screenwriters took the time to write anything down. They kind
of just wrote down brainstorms, and payed the actors to improv them on
screen. 

As usual with the other films, we seem to carry our cameras around
almost obscenely. Nobody, and I mean nobody, carries a camera around
for no reason like that. It makes the realism of the movie seem so
faked, and unreal. That's something you can yell at the entire series
for. What makes the obsessive camera-use even worse, is the fact that
they try to address it in this film, but do so....miserably. "Do these
people film everything?" Said one of the characters, and then goes on
to see his brother film everything. 

Good lord the plot was just so poorly written. They created a really
good thing for themselves in this film. They started it out very well,
except for one problem, they didn't carry it out very well. They for
whatever reason, thought that it was a good idea to create wrinkles in
the plots of the earlier movies, by showing older tapes of the 1988
events, and then cutting to "ritual sessions" that weren't part of the
tape in the first place. They show the two sisters being able to see
into the newer house. And then, it just stops. The writers must have
forgotten that they put that in there, because they never mention it
again. It literally had nothing to do with the plot. All it did was
make way for a cheap jump scare. They left a lot of things unexplained,
such as where Toby came from, what happened to Christi, where the ghost
camera came from, and all sorts of other points. The producers butcher
their old plots, with the plot of this movie. The worshipers need the
blood of Hunter, and the blood of Leila to make one of the 7 fathers of
Hell, real. So goodbye the premise of the first born son, and breeding
witches to find the first born sons. It will not be missed. 

The producers have to understand that throwing in jump scares, and
creepy faces every 10 minutes, do not make for a scary film, and does
not create suspense. All jump scares create, is a sense of not wanting
to be scared. That is all the film is filled with. It does not make for
a good film. 

The visual effects were definitely low budget. Just because the "ghost"
looks like a blob of oil, doesn't mean that it looks convincing. The
movie looks like they added effects in right before it was launched to
critics for review. Every special effect in the film was just poorly
made, and felt rushed. Especially at the end, where Toby is in real
form. First off, they thought that because he is in the night vision
lens It was just a man, with bare feet. It was rather sad. They made
Toby sound like he was going to be a Beezlebub lamb, with crazy inhuman
features. Good lord we were sadly disappointed. That seems to happen a
lot in this movie. 

The only good part about the movie is that the acting is actually
pretty decent. The actors were great for the terrible screen writing
they had to deal with. Child acting is hard thing to deal with, and
getting used to; it can make giving the sense of realism nearly
impossible, but the child actors in this film were pretty decent. They
definitely have a bright future ahead of them.

Please, for the love of God, do not go out and lose brain cells because
you watched this film. It is literally in no way worth it. The writing
was terrible, the effects were terrible, and pretty much everything
about his movie was just terrible. Spare yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Poor acting, poor storyline, stupid ending. At what point does it
become completely absurd to keep a huge, heavy 80's vintage video
camera in your hand instead of saving your daughter? One particular
dumb line of dialogue is when the token hot hippie mystical aunt says
she has heard of spirit photography. Just like that, a stupid plot
point is explained away. I know they had to tie it into the previous
movies, but it was ham-handed at best. It was all about jump scares.
Nothing else. The director didn't manage to create a scary atmosphere.
Not even suspenseful. I took my 15 year old daughter and her friends to
see this, and they laughed out loud at every "scare." Save your money.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "Paranormal Activity:The Ghost Dimension" starring Chris J.
Murray-Bad Roomies, Failing Better Now; Brit Shaw-Nashville_tv, The
Best Sex; Ivy George-in her first movie; Olivia Taylor Dudley-The
Vatican Tapes, Chernobyl Diaries and Dan Gill-The Wedding Ringer, Bad
Sports_tv.

This is the 5th and last, at least according to the producers, in the
found footage horror franchise. Thank goodness! I mean, I like good
horror movies but this is not one of them. This cheapy just uses loud
noises for shock value. Or, people will hear strange noises and decide
to go investigate them instead of getting the heck out of the house,
and this is after they have already seen evidence of an evil presence
messing with them. Meanwhile, back to the plot; Chris & Brit with their
little girl, Ivy, move into Katie Featherstone's old house and No,
Katie does not make an appearance in this one. The young version of
Katie is shown in video tapes that are conveniently found in their new
house along with a video camera that has a hidden feature on it, it can
see spirits and in this case, it is Toby, the evil spirit from the
earlier movies. FYI: this is the first time that they actually show
what Toby looks like and I must say, it's not bad, just the rest of the
movie is. Olivia and Dan come for a visit-I guess they needed more
people for the spirit to mess with-and still, no one thinks about just
getting up and leaving the house. It's rated "R" for language, violence
and scary images and has a running time of 1 hour & 28 minutes. I would
not buy this one on DVD. I would not rent it, either. If, for some
ungodly reason, you wish to see it, I would wait until it reaches cable
TV.
<|_=00=_|>
When you look back on old horror series like 'Friday the 13th' or 'A
Nightmare on Elm Street' and you see 'Part 8: Jason Takes Manhatten' or
'Part 5: The Dream Child' you can't help but shudder at just how
ridiculous the sound of that sequel is. Sadly I fear when people look
back on the 'Paranormal Activity' series 'The Ghost Dimension' is going
to sound equally ridiculous and appear the same for anyone who bothers
to watch it. The film isn't good and does a real disservice to an
otherwise great series. A huge disappointment.

The filmmakers on this one seemed to have absolutely no understanding
of what made the first four (or five including 'The Marked Ones') so
effective. It was the fact that even for those of us that don't for the
faintest second believe in ghosts or demons, it's still scary because
everything was so simple. A person standing over their partner at night
simply staring at them for hours on end is much more frightening of an
image than actually seeing a completely unrealistic monster-like
creature jump out of nowhere. This film did not belong in the series
and if it is indeed the last 'Paranormal Activity' film to be made, it
was a sad way to end things.
<|_=00=_|>
Released in 2007, PA bought a welcome return to scary horror infecting
cinemas with a fear that the multiplexes hadn't seen for a while.
Building its fanbase on rumours it had terrified Steven Spielberg, and
made on a small budget, the film was a success and over the coming
years has become somewhat of a Halloween tradition. Over the years
there's no denying that the series has taken a downward spiral only
revitalising itself with 2013's spin off movie 'The Marked Ones'
changing the format to a more comedy led lead but still retaining the
same framework and storyline progressed through previous instalments. 5
sequels later and as Jason Blum (Producer of the series) has confirmed,
this will be the last chapter in the series and will bring all of the
answers to the questions the series has so far bought to its audience.

This time, a new family, the Fleeges, enter a home sold by PA original
star Katie and events turn to the predictable as they come across a box
of tapes and a strange camera featuring two girls, Katie and Kristi, in
their childhood. It soon becomes apparent that the events unfolding on
film have further connections with the new family and history begins to
repeat itself as their daughter Leila (Ivy George) becomes friends with
the infamous Toby. 

While this is the finale to a franchise that has mixed opinion, there
is so much to explore with the breadcrumbs left behind. The coven of
witches in 3, the portals in "The Marked Ones", the ongoing saga with
Katie, what does it all mean? Well, one thing is for sure, there are no
answers here. In fact, the film leaves with even more questions: 

- Where did the camera come from? Why did the coven want to summon
Toby? 

- Why is the demon called Toby and seeking human form?

- Why does the demon only need the blood of Hunter and Leila born on
the 6th day of the 6th month of the 6th year? 

- What ever happened to Katie?

- What is her exact role in all of this? 

- What is the cause of the portals/dimensions and why do we not see
more of this? 

- What IS the "ghost dimension"? 

- What does it all mean? 

- Can I have an aspirin? 

The feeling is that the guys behind the series had an idea and rather
than spend the time and invest in a long term story, felt they had to
wrap it up in a finale that is as bland as white sheet for a Halloween
costume. The series could have benefited from further spin offs to
create a bigger scale as now "The Marked Ones" feels more like a
standalone film than part of the bigger picture. 

What should have been closure to the franchise, ends as an unsatisfying
blend of repetitive bangs and a mad dash attempt to create a cash-in to
the 3D that is limited to 2 scenes. Throughout the film are a number of
jump moments that focus more on waking you up than actually delivering
a scare.

Toby's appearance is a disappointment to say this is a demon but merely
masks the appearance of Baghuul from the Sinister series with a more
human like posture than the horned faced demon the film leans towards.

Where the original entry and even some of the other films, there are
standalone moments that are memorable but here lies a repetition of the
worst moments of the franchise, taking away any plot that was promised
in favour of a new gimmick (3D) that is well underused. Previous movies
have kept Toby in the background and have decided that now is the time
to let the world see this menace but what unfolds is merely
disappointing. Gone is te suspense of what is/isn't there and instead
the venom-like creature (fans of Spiderman would understand this
reference) adds little in terms of fear. While some of the 3D moments
wherein the fragments of the supernatural look impressive but never
really add anything to the experience. The forceful demon that was seen
dragging Katie in chapter one is missing here, and if Katie is now
possessed, how can the demon himself appear if he's inside Katie? 

Unlike previous instalments where the films unravelling occurs over a
number of weeks, here the hauntings are all delivered by the 10th
consecutive day and pretty much sums up the rushed and heartless film
that is Paranormal Activity: The Ghost Dimension. The longer you think
about the film the more disappointing it becomes. It's a huge let down
for what could have been a solid conclusion to a mixed bag of films,
instead doing more of the same and stitching a half thought out plot to
close the series. You'd even question if the makers had even watched
any of the previous instalments, as many will not be tuning into this
one.

> Martyn Wakefield is a writer and editor for BloodGuts UK Horror and
has contributed over 250 reviews on the horror genre
<|_=00=_|>
So, I saw an advanced preview of this film so there wasn't many ratings
up. After the preview I looked and it was rating around an average of 5
out of 10.....did I miss something? I loved this movie, not enough to
give it a 10, but enough.

I think the main thing to focus on this film is the 3D, if you see it
in 2D you have made a terrible terrible mistake. The 3D is amazing!! It
actually legitimately makes you jump as the objects hurtle towards you,
I flinched. Then the 3D element isn't just carried out with tricks like
that, but actually all throughout the movie, as you see specks of the
demons black liquid stuff (best way I can describe that) floating
around, and it looks like you can reach out and touch it and the camera
they use to see the demon (you'll see if you watch the movie) looks
good in 3D.

Sure, the actual storyline wasn't the absolute best, and the CGI was
slightly less convincing....cause let's face it, when is CGI ever
really truly convincing. But the acting was good, a believable family
and an amazingly creepy little girl, and it was a genuinely thought out
plot, easy to follow, carried on from the other films (so tied up loose
ends), a little bit scary, a little bit nail biting. Overall a good
horror movie. 

Go see it, but....see it in 3D, or you will miss out on the intended
experience!
<|_=00=_|>
"I've heard of spirit photography before, I've just never seen it in
person." When looking through boxes at their house Ryan finds an old
video camera. Excited about the find he begins to walk around filming
everything. He begins to notice strange things through the lens and
when he looks at tapes of movies filmed with the camera he makes a
horrifying discovery. This is a series that has been on the decline
ever since the first one. Each one tries to do something different than
the others, and this one actually shows the activity rather then
showing things happening without knowing why. This new idea makes
things not as creepy to me. Seeing a chair start to rock without seeing
something do it is scarier then seeing a ghost move around. This movie,
however, much like every other sequel, is almost review proof. This is
the 5th movie in the series and by now you are looking forward to the
new one or not. As for me this is a series that should probably stop.
If you can't improve on the last one don't make it. They haven't
reached Batman & Robin status with the franchise yet but they are on
their way. Overall, not un- watchable but another drop off from the
previous one. I give this a C+.
