
Source of my comment: hitfix.com Review By Drew McWeeny.

When we live in an age when everything, no matter how pure the intent
of the creator, is simply IP to be farmed, it is right to be suspicious
of a "Peanuts" movie. After all, Charlie Brown and the rest of the
characters created by Charles Schulz have been huge business for
decades, and it makes sense that they would put something together if
for no other reason than to keep the characters active in pop culture.

Thankfully, it appears that the people behind "The Peanuts Movie" take
the legacy of these characters very seriously, and the result is a
gentle, charming movie that seems far less frantic than much of what is
created for young audiences these days. Blue Sky, one of the two major
producers of CG animated films for Fox, has produced ten feature films
now, and while the majority of their efforts have been originals, it
was clear from "Horton Hears A Who" that when they adapt someone else's
property, they try to do so from a position of authenticity and
respect.

One of the things that makes "Peanuts" such a broad target is all the
different versions there have been. Even in our editorial meetings at
HitFix, as we talk about the films or the specials that we think of
when "Peanuts" is mentioned, we all have our own take on what that
means. For me, the old school TV specials and the first few movies were
the defining version. Louis Virtel told me he always thinks of "Race
For Your Life, Charlie Brown!" first. My kids have been exposed to some
of the specials, but Toshi took it upon himself to read the
Fantagraphics collections of all of the strips that I have on my
shelves. And to any of those people, I would say, "You'll recognize the
'Peanuts' you love in this movie, and you'll be happy." That could not
have been an easy task, so for that alone, Blue Sky and Fox deserve
some accolades.

One of the most interesting choices they made in approaching the movie
was how to design the characters. They are 3D CG objects, but the faces
are "drawn" onto the heads in a way that always feels like there's a
physical brush stroke, a pencil mark. I assume the entire thing is CG,
but it connects the characters to the long hand-made tradition that
started with the comic strip itself. It's a strong stylistic decision,
and it makes sure the characters feel like the characters we already
know. Steve Martino, working from a script by Bryan Schulz, Craig
Schulz, and Cornelius Uliano, touches on any number of familiar jokes
and scenes and set-ups, with a number of references to the long history
of the characters. Snoopy spends most of the movie working on a book on
his newly-discovered typewriter, the story of a flying ace and his
battle against the infamous Red Baron. Sally's got her crush on her
sweet baboo, Linus, who nurses his faith in the the Great Pumpkin. Lucy
gives advice at her sidewalk psychiatric stand while making passes as
Schroeder every chance she gets. Peppermint Patty and her assistant
Marcie both play their familiar roles as well, with Charlie Brown at
the center of everything, constantly put upon, constantly taking one on
the chin. If this is going to be true to the original strip that Schulz
created, then Charlie Brown has got to be suffering, a kid who can't
catch a break.

What surprised me was the way they took a quiet approach to finding
something else to say about Charlie Brown. I was worried that this was
going to be a film where they had to turn him into something he wasn't
just to tick some demographic checklist, and instead, the film makes
some very strong and interesting points about what is heroic when
you're just a kid trying to define yourself. In this case, there's a
new kid in school, the Little Red-Haired Girl, and Charlie Brown is
determined to reinvent himself in a way that will win this girl's
attention and approval. This being Charlie Brown, things are not that
easy, but I thought the way they eventually bring it together was
unexpectedly honest. At this point, these characters have been playing
the same beats for so long that it is genuinely surprising to see them
do something new that doesn't feel like a violation of the characters,
but rather a natural extension of what we already know about them.

The cast of young voice actors all seem appropriately chosen, and it's
interesting to hear how they've gone out of their way to find kids who
naturally sound like the voices that have been connected to the
characters for over 40 years now. One of the reasons I don't ever want
a "Calvin & Hobbes" adaptation to happen is because I don't want to
hear anyone else's take on how Hobbes should sound, but with these
characters, they've had the same voices for so long now that it's kind
of like a magic trick. It's a cast of real kids here, but they sound
like the "real" Charlie Brown, the "real" Lucy, the "real" Linus.

Frequently very funny, undeniably aimed at younger audiences, and true
to the source material, "The Peanuts Movie" is too mild-mannered to win
over brand new audiences, but it's going to please people who were
already fond of the underlying property, and it should be a big
nostalgia-driven hit for the studio.
<|_=00=_|>
When the Little Red-Haired Girl moves into his neighborhood, Charlie
Brown develops a crush on her, but is frustrated that his long-running
streak of bad luck will prevent him from ever getting noticed. Lucy
tells Charlie that he should try being more confident. Charlie Brown
decides to embark upon a series of new activities in hope of finding
one that will get the Little Red-Haired Girl to notice him. His first
attempt is to participate in the school's talent show with a magic act.
However, when his sister Sally's act goes wrong, Charlie Brown
sacrifices his time for her and then with Snoopy's help, rescues his
sister and her act, only to humiliate himself in return. Learning that
the Little Red-Haired Girl likes dancing, Charlie signs up for the
school dance and gets Snoopy to teach him all his best moves. At the
dance, Charlie Brown starts to attract praise for his skills until he
slips and sets off the sprinkler system, which causes the dance to be
cut short. All the other students forget his success and blame him for
ruining their fun.

Later, Charlie Brown is partnered with the Little Red-Haired Girl to
write a book report. At first, he is excited to have a chance to be
with her, but she is called away for a week to deal with a family
illness, leaving Charlie Brown to write the report all by himself.
Hoping to impress both the Little Red-Haired Girl and his teacher,
Charlie Brown writes his report on the collegiate-level novel War and
Peace. At the same time, Charlie Brown finds he is the only student to
get a perfect score on a standardized test. The other children
congratulate him, and his popularity begins to climb. However, when he
goes to accept a medal at a school assembly, he learns that the test
papers were accidentally mixed up and that the perfect score actually
belongs to Peppermint Patty. Charlie Brown declines the medal, losing
all his new-found popularity. He feels worse when his book report is
destroyed, and admits to the Little Red-Haired Girl that he has caused
them to both fail the assignment.

At the end of the school year, Charlie Brown is surprised when the
Little Red-Haired Girl chooses him for a pen pal. Linus convinces
Charlie Brown that he needs to tell the Little Red-Haired Girl how he
feels about her before she leaves for the summer. Racing to her house,
he discovers that she is about to leave on a bus for summer camp. He
tries to chase the bus, but is prevented from reaching it. Just as he
is about to give up, Charlie Brown sees a kite fall from the
Kite-Eating Tree, and the string becomes entangled around his waist and
sails away with him, quickly bringing him up to the bus's window.
Amazed to see Charlie Brown successfully flying a kite, the other
children follow.

Upon reaching the bus, Charlie Brown finally asks the Little Red-Haired
Girl why she chose him in spite of his failures. The Little Red-Haired
Girl explains she admires his selflessness and praises him as an
honest, caring, and compassionate person. The two promise to write to
one another. The other children catch up to Charlie Brown and crowd
around to congratulate him before picking him up on their shoulders and
carrying him away.

In a side story, Snoopy, upon discovering a typewriter in a dumpster,
decides to write a novel about his alter-ego, the World War I Flying
Ace, trying to save his lover Fifi from the Red Baron. He ends up
acting out his adventure, coming across the Peanuts gang several times
along the way. He successfully defeats the Red Baron and rescues Fifi.
However, as he is celebrating his victory with Fifi and his siblings,
he learns that the Red Baron has survived, causing him to furiously
declare revenge.

Both me and my only son Muhammad enjoyed this movie and honestly my son
wanted to see this great movie again. Well Done.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoy The Peanuts Movie. It reminds me of the classic Charlie
Brown movies, but even better! Even though the Peanuts creator, Charles
M. Schulz passed away in 2000, this movie is a tribute to his memory
and the legacy that he left behind.

While the members of the Peanuts Gang look and act like their lovable
selves, there are many updates to this film. The animation is much more
detailed than the previous movies and viewers are able to watch it in
3D. There are many new upbeat songs in addition to the much loved
tunes. "Better When I'm Dancin'" by Meghan Trainor is a great addition
to the original songs. 

The Peanuts Movie is about Charlie Brown trying to break his losing
streak so the little Red Haired Girl (voiced by Disney's Francesca
Capaldi) will view him differently than his friends do. He tries to
change his luck in a dance contest, a talent show, flying a kite and
writing a book report. Also, Snoopy tries to defeat the Red Baron in
order to win the love of his life Fi Fi, voiced by Kristen Chenoweth. 

My favorite character is Snoopy because he is very funny. His story is
well written and filled with love, comedy and adventure. Some of the
funniest characters are Lucy, Sally, Snoopy and Woodstock. They got
great laughs from the audience including kids as young as three. All
the voice talent perfectly suits their characters. Fans of Linus,
Schroeder, Pig Pen, Peppermint Patty and all the others will not be
disappointed. 

The moral to this film is, "if you see yourself as a winner or a loser
in life, you are probably going to act like one. If you think you are a
winner, act like one and others might think so too."

I rate The Peanuts Movie 5 out of 5 stars because of the colorful
animation and it being true to the original Peanuts Gang. I recommend
this movie for ages 3 to 15 or any people who have enjoyed the other
Peanuts movies. At the end of this film there is a 3 second clip. The
credits are very long so be sure to stick around until the end. 

Reviewed by Mia A., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic, age 11.
<|_=00=_|>
The daily newspaper comic strip of Charlie Brown and friends (AKA The
Peanuts) has been around for decades. Created by Charles M. Shulz in
the 1950s about a bald headed kid doing his best to get by in life like
any other average Joe, seemed to stick with its audience. Schulz passed
away in 2000, far too long to see his largely popular foundation
publicized in this fashion  full on Hollywood style. It's surprising
that this even happened though. When most beloved childhood properties
or cartoons become produced by a big budget Hollywood studio, people
are less than pleased. The whole idea of taking something from the past
is to either bring it to current time or at the very minimum
reintroduce it to a new generation as it was when it was originally
made from its inception. Schulz did have the classic animated specials
for the holidays and even a short-lived TV show, but having it brought
to the big screen never felt like it was ever a part of his intentions.
Perhaps it never was, but it's safe to say this will not make him roll
in his grave.

Taking a look at the credits, it is clear as to why this film is as
good as it is. First, Steve Martino, the same director of Dr. Seuss'
adaptation Horton Hears a Who! (2008), directs it. Secondly, the
descendants of the creator himself, Bryan and Craig Schulz were the
writers. From that alone there seems to be a decent amount of people
who care about this project. The plot is the classic story for new
generations that are not familiar with The Peanuts crew. Charlie Brown
and his friends discover a new classmate has come to their town. That
new person is no other than Charlie Brown's crush, the little
red-haired girl. Meanwhile, Snoopy's having trouble of his own with the
red baron constantly fouling up his plans. Anyone who enjoys Snoopy and
friends will continue to enjoy how this film takes the things people
love about them and runs with it. There are numerous references to
other iconic Peanuts moments; the list is long. There's also a lot of
new material as well. An example of this is when Charlie Brown ends up
becoming the most popular kid in the school and how his life
dramatically changes. These different scenarios are important because
they put Charlie Brown in new situations probably not even the veterans
of the comic have scene.

Also, Snoopy's story arc is delightfully written as the allegory to
Charlie Brown's life struggle where the Red Baron is Chuck's annoying
bad luck that doesn't cease to leave him alone. The voice actors to
this production are well cast and perfectly blend with their animated
counter parts. Noah Schnapp as Charlie Brown was perfect, Alexander
Garfin as Linus was great, Hadley Belle Miller as Lucy had the best
attitude to match, Bill Melendez (if were still alive would've been 99
this year!) voices Snoopy and it's as cute as ever. The list is too
long to fully mention but all cast members perform their roles spot on.
For writing of various characters they all get a decent amount of
screen time too and their own gags. There are times when they do act in
ways that seem rather silly but these are children based characters,
which makes them gullible so that is acceptable. If there's anything
that doesn't make sense to this film is the fact that a cinematographer
was needed (Renato Falcão). There have been animated films that have
credited cinematography but it's not common. So as to what was filmed
physically isn't answered but that doesn't diminish the quality.

The animation is another solid component to this feature. Headed by
senior animator Joseph Antonuccio (Rio (2011) and Epic (2013)), almost
every scene flows extremely well. There are areas where the animation
looks choppy but this was apparently done on purpose to resemble that
of the older films. As long as there's a reason. One thing though that
stands out is the 3D texturing on this 2D film and that doesn't mean
watching it in 3D either. The fact that Charlie Brown's shoes look like
real tangible leather and Snoopy's fur is made up of individual
follicles is astounding. Then there's the film score by Christophe Beck
and soundtrack by various artists. Meghan Trainor's "Better When I'm
Dancin'" and Flo Rida's "That's What I Like" both help bring forth the
moral of the story about believing in oneself and not giving up. They
are both catchy and optimistic songs. Christophe Beck's score is
another added bonus. To hear The Peanuts main theme in full updated
orchestra sound is truly something. Plus Beck adds in a lot of his
signature instrument sounds with organ, drums and even bells. By far
though, his most effective motifs are when he brings out the solo piano
that reminisce of his Paperman (2012) score and it does tug on the
heartstrings. Very effective and heart warming.

Seeing Snoopy, Charlie Brown and his crew for the first time in a long
time with updated animation and music are great. The story is a classic
and although it has been used before, it is still an original
nonetheless. It's new for people unknown to it and a favorite for the
fans. Topping that off is the spectacular cast of child actors who
helped bring the characters to life and a script with fortified
character development.
<|_=00=_|>
Ten stars is too low of a rating! I am a thoroughly invested Peanuts
fan, and have been for as long as I can remember (I'll be 32 this
year). Peanuts is far and away my all time favorite cartoon. I have
always appreciated the blend of childhood innocence with deep theology
and philosophy that is present throughout the 65 years since the world
was introduced to the lovable blockhead Charlie Brown (actually 68
years going back to 'Li'l Folks').

This movie continues the blend: both modern and classic animation
styles that I believe set Blue Sky Studios apart from and ahead of both
Pixar and Dreamworks; a classic Vince Guraldi soundtrack with some
tastefully and not overdone modern sound; but best of all nearly all
the classic tropes and references to story lines blended together in a
thoroughly entertaining story that might have come from Schulz himself.

Without giving too much away, this movie has everything any and every
super fan of Peanuts could want: kite eating tree; baseball; hockey; an
epic battle with the Red Baron; Lucy's booth; Schroeder's toy piano and
Beethoven; Snoopy sneaking into school; Leo Tolstoy's 'War and Peace';
and Charlie Brown pining away for the little red headed girl.

As I said, ten out of ten is too low a rating.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, WHO doesn't love peanuts?! I remember watching the
Charlie Brown and Snoopy show in the 1980's on Saturday mornings...
Aaah... What memories... This movie has captured EVERYTHING! It has
captured the magic of Peanuts. In this movie you will find Classic
recurring themes like the football gag, Charlie Brown's kite flying and
a thrilling Dog fight with the Red Baron! This movie is perfect for
kids who haven't grown up with Peanuts and for adults who want to go
back to their childhood. It has a great life message and it shows the
qualities that every person must have. Charles M. Schulz would be
really proud of this movie. This movie is worth it! This is a perfect
comeback for Peanuts
<|_=00=_|>
As someone who grew up watching the Charlie Brown animated specials as
well as reading the comic strip "Peanuts" in my local paper and also in
various book compilations, I highly enjoyed this movie immensely.
What's to like? Well, how about an adult "voice" being represented by a
trombone doing that "wah-wah" sound? Or Vince Guaraldi's music score
occasionally being sprinkled throughout like the unofficial theme of
"Linus & Lucy"? And then there's the various unrequited love pairings
of Sally & Linus, Lucy & Schroeder, not to mention both Peppermint
Patty and Marcie liking Charlie Brown who doesn't even notice? Speaking
of whom, here he once again has a crush on a Little Red-Haired Girl
who's depicted here as the new kid in town and school. Creator Charles
Schulz never had her drawn in his strip nor given her a name though I
remember one of the animated specials-"It's Your First Kiss, Charlie
Brown"-had her animated and called Heather there. I don't think she
spoke there, though. Here, she's not named but she does speak and is
seen quite a bit. Since Schulz' son and grandson wrote the screenplay,
I don't think he would have objected one bit especially when we hear
what she says to Charlie Brown at the end. Also enjoyable was Snoopy's
active imagination when playing the World War I Flying Ace and his
battle against the Red Baron and his attempted rescue of Fifi. In
summary, The Peanuts Movie is a wonderful tribute to the comic strip
and the animated specials produced by Lee Mendelson and Bill Melendez
whose vintage voice tracks as Snoopy and Woodstock were provided here
as well. Really, all I'll now say is go see The Peanuts Movie if you
like entertainment that is both funny and touching and makes you look
fondly back at your own childhood.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching this made me remember the Charlie Brown specials I use to
watch when I was a kid, I believe kids and adults will find this movie
charming.

The plot centers around Charlie Brown trying to overcome his
insecurities in hopes to talk to the new girl that lives across the
street, and course you know what follows.

The whole Peanuts gang really come alive here, I also love the subplot
with Snoopy. I believe a new generation of fans will get into this.
It's perfectly harmless fun for the whole family. The animation is
incredible. If you are looking for harmless fun to take your kids to
see this movie is it.
<|_=00=_|>
Not having released a new Peanuts movie since 1980's Bon Voyage,
Charlie Brown (And Don't Come Back!). For Blue Sky Studios, their most
successful movie franchises Ice Age and Rio, and even tackling Dr.
Seuss' whimsical work Horton Hears A Who! proved that the studio can
compete alongside the big-name animation studios continuing to thrive
in the movie industry today. Now as for them taking on the beloved
comic strip Peanuts, I'd say the studio has definitely outdone itself
by pulling out a great movie from the mind of Charles Schulz. Over the
past six decades, Peanuts had leapt from its comic strip medium and
into the form of animated TV shows, holiday specials, and even a few
movies, but rendering these well-known characters into CGI in this new
animated feature turned out to be unique in its own right because it's
basically channeling the essence of Schulz's original designs and humor
that the older generation had gotten to know so well.

For the littler crowd who are just getting to know Charlie Brown
himself, his beloved dog Snoopy, and the rest of the Peanuts gang,
they're in for a story that focuses on the insecurities of the former
and how he manages to overcome it on a life-changing adventure with his
friends along the way.

The Peanuts Movie serves as a fitting comeback for the characters who
have long been absent from the big screen. I appreciated how the studio
consulted the Schulz family to preserve all the gags and themes used in
their beloved patriarch's past specials. I even noticed throughout the
film that modern day conveniences and current events like today's
electronic devices, music (save for one), and even trends are
completely absent. This is to keep the story timeless and to avoid
violating what Peanuts actually stood for, which I found both
appropriate and nostalgic since I too grew up watching these characters
on TV. Another thing to take note of are the scenarios and nods to past
Peanuts-related segments and specials, which adds a nice touch to some
scenes. To keep true to tradition that's been done many years prior,
having several new child actors to voice these characters remains
intact making them sound vibrant and full of energy. And as an homage
to the late Bill Melendez, his voice (as Snoopy and Woodstock) was used
via archival recordings. To conclude, although Charles Schulz had
passed on since 2000 - and therefore no longer around to see his work
still live on for future generations - this movie serves as a reminder
that the studio wasn't trying to make his work relevant again. Instead,
it's more of a personal tribute to him that shows how these characters
may remind you of yourself at that age or the kids of this current
decade personality-wise. Now it makes sense on how this became the
studio's most critically-acclaimed film compared to their previous
projects. A robust effort and appropriate for the holiday season.
<|_=00=_|>
Great movie, for people who likes the The Peanuts. Great for the kids,
even if I'm 16, I got a few laughs out of it nice movie.

This movie may not be all for the newer generation who never even seen
a piece of The Peanuts. So before you go show your kids the movie..
please.... show them a couple of comic strip of the The Peanuts, and
see if they like it and you guys can go! :)

Other than that the movie was excellent, great for all ages for people
looking for a nice nostalgia stuff. So this is why I give this movie a
10/10. A fun loving movie, that's purely a great art style and that
gives humour. :)
