
It's not hard to see why this movie divides people. Some will always
find a tale of an under-dog's trial over adversity compelling, no
matter how clumsily it's told. And some will find a story about the
manufacture of a mop dull, no matter how charismatic the characters or
inspirational the telling of the tale. The problem here is that
charisma and inspiration are in short supply. David O. Russell doesn't
make much of the real strengths of the story. And he can't resist
imposing his trademark style on characters and a story that really
don't either warrant or suit it. So the characters are more than a
little grotesque around the edges; the situations are all heightened,
even given an absurdist spin; and the facts are never allowed to get in
the way, even when they might actually strengthen the story. So much of
Joy is desperately predictable, which makes for dispiriting viewing.
And the real moments of surprise or pathos are just so much grist to
the Russell mill. Jennifer Lawrence somehow shines through in the lead,
and Isabella Rossellini does her best to enliven her scenes, but that's
about where the positives end. For the most part, Joy is a tedious
mess. While it's a story that would probably never have been told
without David O. Russell wanting to enhance it with his schtick, it's a
story I wish they'd entrusted to anyone other than David O. Russell.
<|_=00=_|>
I heard that this movie received negative reviews and feedback, so I
was pleasantly surprised when I enJOYed the movie as much as I did.

There is no denying that the grand appeal to the movie was Jennifer
Lawrence's compelling performance. The movie's story itself does not
seem like it has much to offer. A poor, overworked woman selling a
plastic mop does not sound that thrilling on paper. However, Lawrence
takes it up a level to a powerful story about a woman never giving up
and making her own opportunities happen against all odds. She takes you
on an emotional journey from start to finish. Lawrence has the
undeniable ability to make you ache along with her struggles. This can
be uncomfortable for the helpless movie-goer, which leads me to wonder
if this is the reason so many people had distaste for the film. No one
wants to be told that hard work and strong will are not enough to
succeed in this world, and, as a whole, "Joy" does just that. 

That being said, "Joy" still left me feeling inspired. As a young,
aspiration-filled woman myself, Lawrence's portrayal of Joy makes me
feel like I can take on the world (which is dream that current American
society consistently crushes on the daily). Lawrence's deadpan stares
as she struts in and out of offices along with her turning point
bathroom haircut, confirm that both Jennifer and Joy are a force to be
reckoned with.

"Joy" also possesses a subtle humor, although many reviews seem to deny
its existence. The purposefully over the top soap opera scenes obsessed
over by bed-bound Terry (played by Virginia Madsen) are just enough to
raise the otherwise dark tone. 

Lawrence and David O. Russell take you on an emotional journey with
"Joy." It may not be the uplifting movie you want this holiday season,
but I would argue it is the movie you need.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a supposedly "inspirational" kind-of movie based on the life of
Joy Mangano a business woman and inventor of home products.

As I'm reading this is far from the actual life of Mangano (who, unlike
the Joy in the movie, she went to University and has a degree in
business administration). It is more like a blend of the stories of
other housewives turned to businesswomen (if you can believe that) and
contains lots of fictional elements for dramatic purposes.

Nevertheless the plot is weak. So is the script. There isn't any actual
moral here (like "Try and you will succeed"), and the narration of her
grandmother dilutes any of that "moral" with too much "it is your
destiny" crap.

Soooo, the movie is an empty shell (or should I say Sell, pun intended)
but is it fun to watch? No. Not really.

The characters (including Robert De Niro's who plays her father,
Elisabeth Röhm's who plays her half-sister, Virginia Madsen's who plays
her mother and Isabella Rossellini's who plays her father's girlfriend
and serves as the initial investor) are heavily unsympathetic.

The direction is blunt, the pace uneven (I wont spoil you but the
resolution of all problems comes in just a few seconds near the end),
the situations unbelievable (like going to the...bathroom and unveil a
conspiracy by pure luck) etc.

Overall: A blunt movie with weak script and plot. The unsympathetic
characters also make this unbearable. Not fun to watch and no true
moral in this fictitious sequence of events.
<|_=00=_|>
I started watching this movie with high hopes considering it was the
work of David O. Russell (who has made some great movies) and highly
praised stars like Jennifer Lawrence, Robert De Niro (my favorite actor
of all time), and Bradley Cooper. Unfortunately, after the first thirty
minutes or so I lost all my hope... it seemed like a childish movie
made by an amateur film-maker!

The script was utterly immature. The main message of the movie was
female empowerment, a cause worthy of fighting for and to which I say
kudos; however, it was represented in the most childish way. Let me
give you an example: "You are going to grow up and be a strong, smart
young woman. Go to school meet a fine, young man. Have beautiful
children of your own. And you're gonna build wonderful things that you
do in your room." Sounds like an advice a 14-year-old, obnoxious,
recently-turned-feminist girl would give! 

Furthermore, the story was completely disoriented and difficult to
follow. One doesn't even know how time passes in the movie! I mean
after Joy grows up there's clearly some significant passage of time,
judging from some of the major occurrences (for instance grandmother
dying, etc.), yet the movie gives absolutely no information about it. I
was also bothered when the narrator of the story died in the middle of
the story, nevertheless still miraculously narrated the events after
her death... this is what I call 'posthumous narration' -- yep, seems
legit!

The directing was so horrendous it gave me a freaking migraine! Very
rarely one can find a scene in this movie in which the camera is
actually stable. I don't oppose to a fluent type of camera movement but
in this case it was a continuous, subtle, yet super annoying jerky
motion that went on and on and on...

Moreover, there are certain scenes in which the acting is incredibly
fake. For example, the scene in which Joy walks out of the garage just
before releasing her anger by shooting -- never seen this fake of an
acting from Jennifer Lawrence before. (I kind of think it's a directing
problem though, considering the high level acting Jennifer Lawrence can
perform, the director could have and should have repeated that scene)

In conclusion, the movie was disappointingly weak and boring. I
certainly do not recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
Mostly, the everyman applauds when another everyman struggles against
odds to find success. Sometime those struggles are herculean. Not the
case in "Joy." While the real life, inventive Joy deserves kudos, the
bottom line is this is a feature film about the creator of a better
mop.

Russell struggles, unsuccessfully, to portray as harrowing the path to
the mop. Joy (Jennifer Lawrence), deals with a houseful of kids, only a
few of them children by age. The motley crew in a small house is not on
Joy's side. She is the breadwinner, the adult, the rock whose
imagination is a liability to those overly dependent on her. It's a
paint-by-numbers affair from there  familial jealousy, dirty financial
dealings, the nightmare foretold by the old saw, "Do not do business
with your family."

The only one with an eye on Joy's genius is Grandma (Diane Ladd). Joy
uses her small crumb of encouragement to build a mop prototype. She
brings it to QVC where the initial sale segment bombs. Slick QVC
huckster Bradley Cooper takes a chance and allows Joy to showcase the
mop herself. Bingo! The mop sells out. Success? Nope. The parts
supplier is screwing Joy, every sale of the mop loses money, and the
family wants their money back. Financial ruin follows. Then Grandma
dies. But the plucky Joy womans up to settle all scores financial and
emotional. Hoorah!

In lieu of dramatizing a woman overcoming, Russell instead created a
painfully unfunny comedy. His palette is broad with a spectrum of
quirkies mincing about with a family dynamic that could only exist in a
poorly written movie like "Joy." The spot-on Russell eventually had to
fall. "Joy" is the X marking the spot.

Made-for-this-film, unfunny soap opera segments are unmotivated. There
is no subtext pointing to the off-TV characters. There's also no
payoff. There are out-of-left-field scenes of the soap in the first
quarter and it's never seen again. What's the point? 

The Cooper-Lawrence chemistry bright and vibrant in past screen
pairings is absent in "Joy." Here, it's given way to forced discomfort.
There's a sense Lawrence, Cooper and DeNiro at some point knew "Joy"
was a dog and tried hard to not phone it in. That or their direction
was, "You've just been hit by a phaser on stun."

The tonally confused "Joy" offers little on the path to an unsatisfying
end where Joy makes it big, big, big and helps others succeed.

There's little sympathy for Joy. The stakes: not living to one's
potential and living with unfulfilled dreams. Her children are healthy.
Her dad, DeNiro, runs a going concern and could help financially if
push came to shove. She's smart and capable of working. Poor Joy.

One wonders about the scores of courageous men and women who daily
struggle against far greater odds, wolves at the door, to put bread on
the table. Where are tales of these folks? It's an odd and tragic
choice for Russell to highlight Joy's story (and insensitive in the
current economy where one in seven US children go to bed hungry). The
can-do attitude of a person overcoming trials is powerful. Open your
eyes, Mr. Russell. There are far better underdog tales to make. They're
just not sexy as Lawrence dancing with a mop.
<|_=00=_|>
My mother is the kind of person who, when walking out of a movie,
always has something good to say about it regardless of how bad the
movie was. We saw this movie together along with my brother and a
friend of mine and when we were walking through the parking lot
afterwords she was suspiciously quiet.

I was hesitant to give this movie such a low rating because I can think
of movies that were objectively much, much worse but frankly the
complete lack of substance makes it hard to give it any kind of rating.

The plot seemed simultaneously dragged out and rushed and contained
zero suspense because no legitimate stakes were really raised and even
if they had been, I cared so little about the characters that it
wouldn't have mattered.

Jennifer Lawrence's character is trying so hard to be The Every Man
that it comes across as painfully fake and her performance was very
much sub par. Every other performance in the movie was not all that
memorable, even in regards to a few bigger name stars.

Two separate characters die over the course of the movie, one of whom
is never actually fully seen on screen. Both times Joy seems to have
moved on completely by the next scene.

A huge problem this movie had was in its attempt to retain some kind of
vaguely political message without actually taking a firm stance on the
issues in play. For example, there's a scene that essentially ripping
on Joan Rivers for being anti-feminist and yet, we never really see Joy
struggling in the work place for being a woman or having her decisions
questioned by the men she works for. She seems to have it remarkably
easy actually, and most of the things that go wrong are solidly on her.
Another aspect of this is in the fact that they're poor and it causes
Plot Issues but this is never truly discussed in any meaningful way. We
are told that they are poor and that it causes problems, but they never
really talk about it nor do they ever seem to face real consequences
for the fact.

Really the only positive things I have to say about this movie are: the
soundtrack was good when it showcased period appropriate tracks as
opposed to generic drama movie background music and I was very glad
that Bradley Cooper and Lawrence didn't hook up in this movie.

Overall, exactly as bad as I expected it to be and definitely not worth
the watch.
<|_=00=_|>
(Rating: ☆☆ out of 4)

This film is not recommended.

In brief: Clean-up in Aisle 4

GRADE: C

The usually reliable David O. Russell lets down his fine cast of
performers in his latest film, Joy, which doesn't quite live up to its
title. Except for a strong performance from its lead, the delightful
Jennifer Lawrence, the film remains a major disappointment. 

The film is loosely based on the true story of inventor Joy Mangano,
but the screenplay also written by its director is a mess that needs to
clean up its act. The film swings wildly between comedy and drama but
never stays long enough to be effective in either category. Joy,
winningly played by Ms. Lawrence, is interesting and the actress brings
some verve to her role, but all of the supporting characters around her
are sketchy and never amount to much more than quirky curmudgeons whose
actions are so over-the-top that they never resemble anything remotely
believable.

The plot: Joy's life is in shambles (but then, so is the script).
Living slightly above the poverty level and sharing her household with
her dysfunctional divorced parents, Terry (Virginia Madsen), a
reclusive soap opera addicted mother, and Rudy, a crotchety
self-absorbed father (Robert De Niro) who takes up with a rich Italian
widow named Trudy (Isabella Rossellini), Joy's ex-husband, Tony (Edgar
Ramirez), who is trying to be a professional singer, Peggy (Elizabeth
Rohm), her jealous stepsister, and Joy's two adorable children. Still
her creative impulses compel her take action and change the direction
her life is taking, which leads Joy to her long- time friend and
adversary in business, Neil (Bradley Cooper), who gives her moral
support on her latest venture. 

However, none of these relationships build to any satisfactory
conclusion due to the stilted writing and uneven tone of the film. The
ending also seems pat and forced as it quickly tries to tie up its
loose ends, be they cotton or synthetic.

With all of the talent involved, sadly, Joy is a joyless filmgoing
experience.

Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.com

ANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com
<|_=00=_|>
I don't see what the hype is all about. The story is average and done
many many times before. Nothing really likable or inspiring about the
characters or the story. The acting is nothing notable. Just very
standard stuff. Let me cap it in one sentence. Down and out mother
thinks up an invention, brings it to market, and becomes rich after
some travails that, in reality, is all fought and done with lawyers in
the end. That's it. If you watched "The Pursuit of Happiness" the Will
Smith movie, you've pretty much seen this one.

And just an off note, these type of movies are ridiculous. For every
success story like this one, there are thousands of others who've tried
and failed. People who risked the financial well beings of their
children and family on an improbable venture because they think
themselves special, even though they never done the hard work of
getting an education or training. But they still think themselves
special. You never hear about them, the losers, the irresponsible ones
who ruined the lives of their families. You only hear about the one in
a million, like lottery winners. For a society, this isn't healthy when
even the dumbest dingbat thinks himself above everyone else, and
they're going to be millionaires. I guess that's why people vote
Republicans.
<|_=00=_|>
David O Russel is a good director. "I heart huckabees",

now this is a great film, with lot of ideas and inspiration.

"Three Kings", "The Fighter", and the two previous with Lawrence, i
enjoy all of them "Joy" is not even a mediocre movie, it is a bad
movie, with a terrible and naive script. A failure in every level.
Actors performances are good but they cannot save any movie like this.
Every minute, it was getting worst and worst, there are no words to
describe this mess, i wish i could say it better but my English are not
that good, my English are on the same level with this film:Αwful. And
what was the message of this film?That there is still hope in a
materialistic world and we should chase our dreams, even when all seem
against us? Maybe interrupt and invade to a board meeting of a powerful
company and confront the CEO? Come on, a director should respect the
audience. If you want to direct a fairy tale,OK, i like fairy tales but
don't present me an uninspiring fairy tale as a realistic movie, "based
on a true story". Even if it was a true story, it is not convincing.
Please, respect the audience. A talented director like O Russel should
not forget it
<|_=00=_|>
Well, what can I say? Joy is a plain, boring and uneventful movie
lacking great performances from Robert de Niro and Jennifer Lawrence
(of course I wasn't expecting much from Bradley Cooper). The plot could
have been interesting but the script completely ruined it I am not a
fan of David Russell bu he did a really really bad job with Joy: his
sequences don t make any sense, the narrator character choice is just
pointless and many scenes are really hard to believe in. During the
initial part of the movie, there were some funny bits which kept me
moderately entertained but, after those 30 minutes, it was just plain
boredom. The fact that Jennifer Lawrence won a Golden Globe for this is
just unbelievable and proves what we all already know and what Ricky
Gervais mentioned at the ceremony: all awards are bought by studios as
a marketing campaign. Well, they succeeded, because I spent the money
to see that, and I could not regret it more than I do.
