
I loved it! I haven't laughed this much since Due Date with Robert
Downey Jr; in fact I laughed even more during this. I read some very
negative reviews on here about this and all I can say is that if you
don't have a sense of humour for slapstick comedy then don't leave a
negative review because of it.

An innocent guy working as a security van driver gets talked into
robbing the company he works for by an attractive ex-employee that he
has a real crush on. He thinks they're going to be living together,
happily-ever-after, once all the heat has settled, but things don't
quite go to (his) plan.

There are so many hilarious moments in this film and the rest is all
pretty humorous, as well. It's comedically brilliant, fast paced,
intelligently written and an all-round good film. Not a dull moment.
Give it a go and DO NOT listen to any ("meh, so-so") reviews with less
than five stars. One reviewer said it's the same kind of humour as
Airplane and Naked Gun. It's not!
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I just can't believe that this movie was based on a true
story. It left me captivated to a point of going back to do research on
the real story. I wanted to see pictures of these people in person. I
just had to laugh while reading some of it. 

After doing research on the real story, I found the movie to be very
balanced in that it tried to find a humorous way to tell the story. I
think that they actually pulled it off. Was it laugh out loud comedy?
No...but entertaining, Certainly. It isn't something that I'd ever
watch again, but I didn't feel as if it were a complete and total waste
of time. There were a few funny moments and in some moments, I even
felt sorry for the main character. It will definitely hold your
interest. Worth a movie rental.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite having comedy juggernauts like Kristen Wiig, Jason Sudekis and
Leslie Jones (The people who made me laugh other than...), Zach
Galifianakis was the powerhouse genius that made this movie flow. When
he was not on the screen, it did not flow like when he was on, and he
was always on. He played stupid so brilliantly that he will have you
busting a gut uncontrollably. The more dimwitted the funner it got.

Proving the It's so funny it's true statement is correct, Galifianakis
leads an ensemble cast in a story based on true events about a security
guard leading a boring life about to marry the only woman who would
have him (Played hilariously by Kate Mckinnon) until his co-worker
(Kristen Wiig) used her lady charm to convince him to help her friend
(Played Owen Wilson, but not in his best role) rob their employer. Now
he's on the run from The FBI (Played by the Hilarious, Leslie Jones),
and a hit man hired to keep him from talking (Played by also Hilarious
Jason Sudekis).

It's a pretty well laid out heist movie, but I got to say, it has so
many comic masterminds in it you'd expect that I would laugh so hard, I
die of it, but the only real worthy laughs come from Zach Galifinakis,
who took the simplistic and turned it into comic gold. It's good enough
just to see him do that.
<|_=00=_|>
There's an unwritten rule when it comes to bratpack comedies  Don't
expect much wit. Masterminds has none and that's not even the biggest
downside given the combined comic talent in this film.

With a lineup comprising of Zach Galifianakis, Owen Wilson and Jason
Sudeikis, it's hard not to recall bratpack comedies like Hall Pass or
The Hangover. Those films were not very witty either but they were
setup to be outrageously funny and they delivered with laugh-out-loud
gags. On the other hand, Masterminds has been in production hell for a
long time and was supposed to be released over a year ago. While this
doesn't say much about the overall production and budget, it explains
why there are as many as six writers for the screenplay. That's never a
good sign and it shows  jokes are not only a misfire but the repeated
use of toilet humour is a definite indication of lazy writing and poor
taste.

It is still interesting to note that this film is based on a real life
robbery. Details of the heist are almost identical including actual
names of the perpetrators, and set in the 90s, this film could have
even worked as a Martin Scorsese crime caper. Instead, Galifianakis is
in the lead as real criminal David Ghantt but resembling Jim Carrey
from Dumb and Dumber. And as expected, his character is as bright as a
flickering lightbulb. Orchestrated by Steve (Wilson as the titular
perp), the plan is to con Ghantt into stealing money from the armored
truck company he works for and have him eliminated in Mexico after the
job. Dubbed the 'Loomis Fargo Bank Robbery' by the FBI, the real
incident turned out to be one of the largest cash hauls in the United
States. What happens in the film is a struggle between staying true to
the facts and letting Galifianakis loose.

While most of the film barely serves any real laughs (when not being
cringe worthy awkward), the only reason to recommend Masterminds would
have to be cameos from Sudeikis as a psychotic hit-man and Kate
McKinnon as Ghantt's psychotic fiancé. Both are show stealers and with
the inclusion of Leslie Jones as a tongue-lashing FBI agent, perhaps
the only saving grace in a crime film disguised as a comedy. And
speaking of disguise, this film is second to none in imagining what a
wanted thief must do to evade airport security. Watch and laugh. Or
weep.
<|_=00=_|>
Stories about stupid criminals are funny. And when those stories are
true, besides laughing, we find ourselves shaking our heads in mocking
disbelief. Just think about how many times you've read such stories in
an Email or heard them on the radio or on TV and how amused you were
picturing what was being described. Well, "Masterminds" (PG-13, 1:34)
brings us a true story of stupid criminals in vivid detail  helped
along by some of the funniest actors in movies today  including a few
"Saturday Night Live" veterans. This ensemble comedically dramatizes
the true story of a 1997 North Carolina Loomis Fargo robbery, which
remains one of the biggest heists in U.S. history. Although the script
by Chris Bowman, Hubbel Palmer and Emily Spivey, along with the
direction of Jared Hess ("Napoleon Dynamite", "Nacho Libre") and the
comic stylings of the talented cast, adds a significant amount of humor
to the action, the film's story and many of its details stick very
close to the facts of the case.

David Ghantt (Zach Galifianakis) is a clumsy and socially awkward, but
basically honest and well-meaning armored car driver in Charlotte,
North Carolina. He is engaged to the even more awkward and
self-centered trailer park dwelling Jandice (played with a sort of
catatonic glee by SNL's Kate McKinnon), but David has fallen for his
fellow driver, Kelly Campbell (Kristen Wiig). Kelly lives (also in a
mobile home) with an old friend named Steve Chambers (Owen Wilson) and
his wife, Michelle (Mary Elizabeth Ellis). When Steve hears on the news
about a recent Loomis Fargo robbery, he hatches a scheme to use Kelly's
connection to David to get him to rob Charlotte's Loomis Fargo. Kelly
is reluctant to play on David's affections, but she'd love to get a
share of that money and David is tempted by the promise of a new life
with Kelly down in Mexico. After Kelly "trains" David for the things
that he'll have to do to commit the robbery (and how to possibly "live
off the land" until it's "safe" for Kelly to join him in Mexico), and
with the help of a few other down-on-their-luck (and none-too-bright)
co-conspirators, the plan is all set.

Let the comedic missteps begin! David is a trusted employee with keys
to a Loomis Fargo vault, which he accesses after hours. In spite of his
natural clumsiness and lack of logical thinking, David somehow manages
to load a van with a fortune in bundled bills and gets the vehicle to
his fellow criminals waiting outside. They stash the cash, giving David
a few thousand dollars (stuffed into his underwear) for his flight to
Mexico, where he thinks that he'll soon be reunited with Kelly. Back in
North Carolina, an FBI agent (played by SNL's Leslie Jones) knows that
David did the deed and she's working hard to piece together the rest of
the puzzle. Steve gets nervous and decides to take out a contract on
David, hiring an old friend turned hit man, Mike McKinney (Jason
Sudeikis) for the job. Mike turns out to be a pretty unhinged hit man
and his trip to Mexico in search of David ends up being a comedy of
errors. David eventually figures out that he's the patsy and does his
best to turn the tables on his partners in crime.

"Masterminds" is a hilarious send-up of that real-life heist from the
late 90s. And not all comedies that depict real-life stupid criminals
do the job this well. (See 2013's unfunny "Pain & Gain". And by "see",
I mean as an example. Don't actually watch the movie.) This script's
enhancements to the true story make for good plotting and make great
use of the cast's significant and diverse comedic talents. The humor
comes from a combination of the colorful characters' personality
traits, Galifianakis' talent for slapstick, some gross-out humor and a
lot of good old fashioned stupid criminal mistakes. The movie never
oversells its characters or its humor, even actually keeping some
moments too low-key. Not all the jokes work, but there are plenty of
great sight gags and other laugh-out-loud moments that make this movie
exactly what such cinematic experiences are supposed to be  fun. "A-"
<|_=00=_|>
Despite a set of tremendous comedic actors, 'Masterminds' isn't half as
funny as it ought to have been. It has some moments, but they aren't
enough to pass this delayed release as a winner. 

'Masterminds' Synopsis: A guard at an armored car company in the
Southern U.S. organizes one of the biggest bank heists in American
history. Based on the October 1997 Loomis Fargo robbery.

'Masterminds' tries to adapt a crazy true-story into a much crazier
film. Sadly, it only engages in bits. I enjoyed the sub-plot of the
hero & his crazy girlfriend (Zach Galifianakis & Kate McKinnon), but
the main plot doesn't bring out the best laughs. Also, the jokes are
too crass & get silly after a point. Chris Bowman, Hubbel Palmer &
Emily Spivey's Screenplay is alright. Its only sporadically funny.
Jared Hess's Direction is just passable.

Performance-Wise: 'Masterminds' rests on the madness of its cast. Zach
Galifianakis can be dumb & funny more than anyone else can right now &
hence, he's spot-on. Kristen Wiig is irresistible, even though she
doesn't much scope. Owen Wilson is okay. Jason Sudeikis is absurd, yet
entertaining. Leslie Jones hams. Kate McKinnon is fantastic as Zach's
crazy girlfriend & she, completely steals the show.

On the whole, 'Masterminds' isn't funny enough. Nonetheless, watch it
if you must!
<|_=00=_|>
Jared Hess's "Masterminds" is the sort of movie that you'll appreciate
if you accept low humor. I do. It might be a surprise to learn that the
movie is based on a true story (the October 1997 Loomis Fargo robbery).
I'm sure that a lot of what the movie shows is added for comic relief,
and to let the cast members do their stuff. Even so, they lay
everything out quite well, as the scheme's main man sets up the armored
car driver as a patsy.

While Zach Galifianakis, Owen Wilson and Kristen Wiig are the
top-billed stars, some of the best lines come from Leslie Jones (if
she's in a movie, you know that it's gonna be good). As expected, Kate
McKinnon and Jason Sudeikis also turn in good performances. Basically,
the combination of the heist, the snappy dialogue, and the occasional
gross-out humor makes for one funny movie. Betcha never thought that an
Enya song would get used this way! 

It's also gotten noted that three of the four modern Ghostbusters star
in this movie. 2016's "Ghostbusters" is a criminally underrated movie.
It's hard to believe that there are people who call it one of the worst
movies ever while still regarding as masterpieces the obnoxious
"Everyone Says I Love You", the vacuous "Eyes Wide Shut", and the
pointless "Man on the Moon".
<|_=00=_|>
"My name is David Ghantt. I always felt I was destined for a life of
adventure. It didn't quite pan out that way. Then one day I met Miss
Kelly Campbell." David Ghantt (Galifianakis) works for an armored car
company, is engaged to be married and is loving life. He starts to
develop a little crush on his co-worker Kelly (Wiig) which results in
an opportunity for one of Kelly's friends. David becomes involved in
one of the biggest bank heists in US history, with no clue of what he
is actually involved in. First of all I have to say that this movie was
decent and I laughed a few times, but I was very disappointed. I
watched Keeping Up With The Joneses which I thought was very funny, and
this one was not nearly as good. The one huge saving grace of this
movie was Jason Sudeikis. He saved this movie pretty much by himself. I
would watch an entire movie based on that character. The rest of the
movie felt a little flat and uninspired and the only thing that really
kept me interested, besides Sudeikis, was that it was based on a true
story and I wanted to see what actually happened. Overall, funny in
parts but really disappointing and I'm glad I waited to rent this
rather than go to the theatre for it. I give this a C+.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie coasts by on the good will previously generated by the
people appearing in it. I've seen all these actors in better films, I
like them, this time it just doesn't work. I was interested in the true
story the film is based upon. These events occurred in King's Mountain,
20 minutes from the town where I grew up in the 90's. So, I can say
that the personalities of the locals where slightly exaggerated, though
it was the 90's!
<|_=00=_|>
If this is based on a true story, and it was, I can't believe a bunch
of nimrods like this were able to pull it off. Coming off looking even
worse to my mind was the security company Loomis Fargo, which didn't
seem to have any measures in place to prevent something like this from
happening. The actual robbery took place in October of 1997, so that's
not that long ago for the company to have gotten with the times. Having
just read a summary of that heist, the details in the film are
amazingly accurate, right down to the picture of Elvis hanging over the
fireplace of the Chambers home. Unbelievable.

As far as the movie goes, it's got it's share of hits and misses, with
the funny parts coming across as slapstick more than anything else. I'm
not a big fan of movies with Saturday Night Live alumni in them, and
this one had a couple in Kristen Wiig and Kate McKinnon. Both were OK
here and that's as much as I'll concede, but considering the inane
nature of the story, they fit right in with the kind of forced humor
the picture came up with.

For some real laughs, stick around for the outtakes following the film
because they're funnier than the movie itself. You know, The Bowery
Boys made a 1949 movie titled "Master Minds", and in comparing the two
one would be hard pressed to decide which one had a dumber cast of
idiots. In the Bowery Boys flick, Huntz Hall is gifted with a mind
reading ability to predict the future. If he could have told us about
this one coming out in 2016, we would have all been better forewarned.
