
This movie was simply AWFUL. Really, really bad. And to those who are
going to argue that the reason why this movie is rated so low is
because people are becoming "anti- Christian", NO. The acting was
terrible, the script was horrendous, seriously. A group of high school
kids in drama club could do better. It was deathly boring, i thought I
was in there for more than three hours. 

Worst of all is the message its trying to send. Isn't it curious that
the movie tried so hard to portray all of those that were left as bad
messed up people? So is that supposed to mean that those who don't
believe in the Christian God are all either cheaters, flirts, gamblers,
thieves, drug addicts and just generally messed up? Because that's what
I saw. Don't think I wouldn't catch that. I get that its a Christian
movie but its still a pretty offensive way of showing off your faith. 

Even in the Philippines, which is predominantly made up of believers,
people in the theatre couldn't help but laugh at how absolutely
ridiculous everything was. Worst movie EVER
<|_=00=_|>
This movie epitomizes the problem with religion in general.

It starts with a conclusion, so it's tediously predictable & boring
boring boring, strictly by-the-numbers fluff for the easily
entertained.

As demonstrated the featured review, the only people who will like this
dog are those who take a creepy satisfaction in their belief that they
alone will get sucked up to heaven while everybody else fries in hell.

As a result, it's aimed at a narrow audience of knee-jerk true
believers who would like it no matter how awful it is.

And this was awful, folks. The script falls so flat I even lost my
taste for popcorn. Even my daughter, who wanted to see it, got bored
pretty quickly. 

So when some other people walked out, we 'left behind' them.
<|_=00=_|>
Was it the money? Did he owe someone a favour? Cage why are you in this
terrible movie ? Left Behind is even worse than the Kirk Cameron
version ,which also sucked. The book I am sure is better, since many
have read it. This movie is a career killer ...it is sad to see Cage
left behind by Hollywood. The acting is bad , Cage tries hard to make
work out of a script that was seemingly penned by 8 year old's . I mean
the dialogue is terrible. Why waste your money making a film that is
just bad. Cage needs to really rethink his career . Honestly I felt
ashamed for Nick . Wild at Heart , Leaving Las Vegas, and Oscar
winner... My God man have you no self respect? Nick you are better than
this.
<|_=00=_|>
When you start reading the reviews of a film, and it's compared to
"Sharknado", "Birdemic" and that 1970 groan-worthy classic
"Airport".you have to wonder what the hell Nic Cage was thinking, and
just how broke he was to accept this painfully bad pay check.

Ah, but it's just those nasty secular critics that are panning the film
because it's wholesome and religious, right? WRONG! Christianity
Today's Reviewer gave Left Behind one-half of one star, a four page
review of everything that was wrong with itand this warning in bold
print: "I will bold this next point so that readers now searching
desperately for the vanished comments section can take note: Left
Behind is not a Christian Movie" 

When you read a group of movie review slug lines like these, your
eyebrows go up (and your money tends to stay in your pocket) 

"Score One for Satan" -Toronto Star "Left Behind seriously could have
used some divine intervention." -USA Today "Featuring local-cable
production values and dialog that seems written by a crack team of
Sunday schoolers" -New York Post "The movie is just too silly,
roundabout, and bungling to feel anything other than a little pity for
it." Top Critic Rotten Tomatoes "You expect this kind of shoddy work
from a movie with the guy from 'Growing Pains,' but not with the guy
from 'Bangkok Dangerous.' " -Metro "At best, Left Behind is shoddily
made sensationalist propaganda-with atrocious acting-that barely
registers as entertainment. At worst, it's profoundly
moronic."-Entertainment Weekly "You'll be praying for salvation from
this awkward apocalypse" -Film Racket "The Rapture won't come soon
enough for the unfortunate souls forced to suffer through Left Behind."
Hollywood Reporter "With a Sharknado-inspired visual style and a
deeply weary lead performance from Nicolas Cage, Left Behind is
cheap-looking, overwrought kitsch of the most unintentionally hilarious
order." -Variety 

So what's the back story here? How did this hot mess come to be?
Apparently, it all started with a series of 16 books that were popular
nearly two decades ago, that feature gratuitous violence and political
whodunits in a loose Christian End of Times wrapper.

The books did well, so why not make a movie? They didin 2000starring
Kirk Cameron. It flopped rather miserably and went the way of direct to
video bargain bins. Could this be a prophecy of future events involving
Left Behind 2014? Time will tell.

But despite all this bad pressthere IS an up side: Credit where credit
is due!!! At a very divisive time in American HistoryLeft Behind has
managed to make the Secular and Religious UNITE in a wincing groan and
forehead smack of appalled disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is so banal it takes the banality out of The Banal. The
premise is absurd. The unravelling of the plot is absurd. The
performances are, at best, distracted as is the direction. Even the
actors seem unconvinced. I'm still kicking myself for watching this
film. Sin and purity are depicted with juvenile simplicity. Religious
bias is arrogantly displayed (but I'll leave that to the unfortunate
viewer to spot). Complex ideas like forgiveness, atonement and
judgement are reduced to idiocy at an atomic level. I apologise if this
sounds too much like a rant but for someone who watches well over 15
films a week, I have never subjected myself to anything this offensive
(to the senses) in over 25 years.
<|_=00=_|>
Do not sit through this. 

You hope it becomes better, but it never does.

There is no actual plot or ending. If you are in it for Nicholas Cage
or airplanes, it will assault all you know of them. 

This is my first review, I had to get an account to verbalize how
horrible this was, it just leaves you grasping at straws why you
watched this and anything good there was in the movie is not enough
when you reach the end. 

I have no idea why we continued to watch, it was insulting and base
when it came to the end. The beginning starts with the lead female
getting to up in Christian grills. It was a bit unnecessary, but it
serves as a HA! Told you so moment at the end when it turned out that
this was a rapture film. Which is not bad, but there is just nothing to
it. The lead females role is grating and irritating by most peoples
standard, she did not have to be a Christian basher for this to be
apparent.

H O R R I B L E
<|_=00=_|>
This was the worst movie I have ever seen. It is clearly destined to go
straight to day time television. From the start the movies direction,
plot, acting and music all give the impression of a day time drama but
much much worse. 

I don't hate the premise of the movie, it's just like any other sci-fi
fiction. However, this movie with it's bad acting and direction make it
a complete and utter flop. Too much emphasis is placed on the religious
aspects of this story making it feel like a veritable propaganda flick,
ruining all chances of immersing in the story-line.

Do not waste your money on such a poorly produced movie. Religious or
not, you will walk out of the theatre with nothing but regrets.
<|_=00=_|>
Shockingly horrible movie. I can't imagine anybody being able to sit
through it except for morbid curiosity. Poor Nicholas Cage - must have
fallen on hard times to agree to acting in this disaster of a show.
Acting is terrible, effects are cutting edge (if this movie had been
made in the 1950s), lines are cheesy, plot is crap. What more can I
say? Save yourself 1 hr and 40 mins of pain and cringing (or however
long you can tolerate this train wreck of a production). Buy this move
and save it as a punishment for your grounded kids if they use the
Lord's name in vain or *gasp, God forbid* indulge in premarital sex.
Make them watch it back to back 3 times and they will behave.
<|_=00=_|>
I was expecting a sci-fi thriller going into this: Millions of people
suddenly disappear and Nicolas Cage has to land a plane... that's about
all I gathered from the synopsis, but it sounded promising enough. I
had no expectations going in. I didn't care; I like "bad" movies
anyway: popcorn B-flicks, anything to keep my hands of my dick for a
couple hours; and it has Nicolas Cage in it so how bad can it be? Let's
just say this movie made me feel bad for having a dick. It made me
upset to be alive. In fact the only solace I got from Left Behind is
that I know I can never see a movie worse than it; it's that bad.

First things first: this is a rapture movie. Its dialogue consists of
religious theological nonsense that pose more questions than answers,
questions you shouldn't be thinking about during a movie in the first
place. No one should be blaming Nicolas Cage for this abomination. It's
not his fault it was bad - the only fault Cage holds is the fact that
he accepted the role making fans of his aware that this movie exists
(which, yeah, kind of a dick move Nic). 

Nicolas Cage has the top billing but he's hardly the star. No one stars
in this movie. The dialogue is so bad that nobody has anything to do.
Even Cage sleepwalks through this one. The film has no flow whatsoever.
It feels like a mishmash of melodramatic scenes with insufferable
characters portrayed by horrid actors, backed by offensively bad
writing, special effects, and every other conceivable thing you can
think of. Hell, even the lighting sucks ass. It's a "thriller" with
absolutely no tension or suspense; everything is so stiff and
uncomfortable. This movie does literally everything wrong. The music is
even awful. The girl's brother dissipates into her arms and smooth jazz
Kenny G bullsh*t is playing in the background. 

It takes half an hour for anything to happen in this movie. You're just
bombarded with character after character, each one more boring than the
last, for the sake of having some "impact" when the rapture actually
happens; and there is none. You don't care what happens to any of these
characters. None are developed - you know their title or job (father,
daughter, wife, journalist, what have you) but there's no personality.
Nothing driving them. They're just puppets used to get this
pseudo-intellectual garbage on screen. Then when sh*t finally goes
down, they get even stupider. Half of the people on the plane vanish,
and the first thought that goes through their heads is "It's the
captain's fault, let's get him! Surely he's behind this!" Really, they
just lost a loved one and their first instinct is to form a mob and
storm the cockpit. The only guy that can land the plane is the one guy
they antagonize. Smart.

In a way though, they're right. It is Cage's fault this movie was made.
Of the $16 million budget probably $15 million was for Cage to show up.
On the bright side, Left Behind is the new bottom of his career. There
is no production value here - just pure, unadulterated, toxic sh*t.
They made God the villain in this movie; do I need to say more?

I had to get this rant off my chest so I can continue my life never
thinking of this sh*tpile again. It's not even so bad it's funny; it's
simply horrendous. This movie doesn't deserve to be read about, let
alone watched, so please spare yourselves. If you ended up paying money
for this movie, then may God have mercy on your soul.
<|_=00=_|>
Once again I was deceived by the trailers as they made this movie look
absolutely amazing; however, the trailers were the only good things
that came out of this movie, and that says a lot.

First of all, we have the common Christian movie stereotype where some
of a family is for God, and some of it is against God. Than we are
provided with the frequent misunderstandings non-Christians face
regarding the meaning of scripture due to Christians who have almost 0
theological education. So because the Christians fail to provide an
adequate answer, the non-Christian lashes out. At least provide the
audience with some level of complexity if you're going to have some
kind of a theological debate. Your audience understands more than you
think. Now if we could simply ignore the horrendous script not to
mention the awful acting, we still have a movie full of stereotypes
regarding non-Christians, Christians, Muslisms and even smaller people
(just trying to be politically correct) which got old very fast.

But believe it or not, this is not even the worst part of the movie!
The worst part is the terrible background music! To put it bluntly, it
was GARBAGE!! It was so floaty and totally ruined the atmosphere. Now
don't get me wrong, some movies require floaty music, but it would have
made more sense to have music that was thematically apocalyptic. For
example, Armageddon, Independence Day, or World War Z each had
excellent pieces which blend perfectly into the atmosphere of the
movie. The fact is even if the script to a movie is mediocre, having an
excellent soundtrack can drastically improve the atmosphere. With a
corny 80's saxaphone piece playing in the background, or cheesy
orchestral music, which sounded digital, my wife and I walked out of
the movie going "what did we just see?"

Though I am a pastor, I was hoping to be raptured during the movie. Do
what I should have done and save your money by not seeing this film.
