
Parts Per Billion follows the intertwined stories of three couples at
different stages in their lives who are dealing with their
relationships during a time of global crisis. Each couple is dealing
with their own issues within the context of larger events. Those
seeking scenes of mass hysteria and destruction will be disappointed.
This is a relationship movie, through and through.

It's no surprise that the cast is terrific, and do the best with what
they have to work with. Whatever faults may exist, the writers and cast
create believable and interesting characters. The non-linear nature of
the story -- the scenes jump from couple to couple and from time to
time -- can be a tad confusing at times, but it was probably necessary
to provide a feeling that something is happening. This is important,
because nothing actually is happening. To use a cliché, it's like the
characters are rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic without even
acknowledging that its sinking. There is an unreal feel to how the
looming external crisis is ignored by pretty much everyone until it is
on top of them. For this reason, the film wastes the whole concept of
impending doom and leaves us dealing with normal couples dealing with
normal issues.

Perhaps it was the director's intent to show how we get so swept up in
our own personal affairs that we can't see the big picture, but it just
seems to me to be a waste of a good premise. I can't help but compare
Parts Per Billion to Another Earth. Both are small-budget films that
deal with tragic relationships in the shadow of bigger events, but the
later film was able to tie the two things together. This, too, could
have been a poignant film, but it comes up short.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is not sci-fi and it's not an end of the world disaster
movie as the title seems to suggest. I think its abysmal rating is
because people are going into it thinking it's a certain kind of end of
the world, doom and destruction movie and then they find out it's not
that at all. Not by a long shot. 

This is a romance/drama film that tries its darnedest to be deep. 

This is one of those interconnected drama movies along the veins of:
Crash, Magnolia, The Air I Breathe and Happiness. 

So if you're into that sort of style, plotting and character driven
storytelling you'll almost definitely like this. If not, you'll most
likely find it tedious, boring and depressing.
<|_=00=_|>
"Parts Per Billion" is a film written and directed by Brian Horiuchi.
It's very well madewith some really nice acting. However, it's also
one of the most depressing films you could ever watch and I don't think
most folks would want to see a film quite like thisespecially since it
seems very obvious where all this is headed.

When the film begins, you learn that some sort of biological weapon was
unleashed in the Middle East. Soon, folks in that part of the world
start dropping dead and it seems like the weapon will spare no one in
the immediate area. However, when the effects start spreading globally,
it seems like perhaps no one will be left alive. However, this film is
not so much about this directly but how a few individuals react to all
this. Some fight desperately to survive, some ignore the inevitable and
some can't stand to face life in this post-apocalyptic world and are
ready to just give up. Naturally, these scenarios are depressing and
the film keeps cutting back from one story to the next.

The film stars a few famous folkswith some really nice performances by
veteran actors Frank Langella and Gena Rowlands as well as Josh
Hartnett and Rosario Dawson (among others). The direction is also good,
though in a few scenes I was annoyed by a modern filming technique
which I think is way overusedthe unsteady cam (it can make you
nauseous if you see too much of this on the big screen). But the
combination of the music, writing, acting and director's touch is quite
good.

I am going to make this review rather short. Suffice to say if you like
Robin Cook stories about pandemics, then you'll probably enjoy "Parts
Per Billion" (well, enjoy might not be the right word for this).
However, it's a lot more depressing than most of Cook's doom and gloom
scenariosmuch! Well made but so thoroughly unpleasant I am not sure
who would really want to see this one. My advice is see it if you want,
but if you are suffering from depression or are worried that this one
might make it tough for you to sleep, I suggest you try something else.
Well done but awful to watch at times.
<|_=00=_|>
"Nothing is left. The radio stopped. There's no more planes or
helicopters. When's the last time we heard anything other then birds?"
After a man made virus escapes the entire world is threatened. The fast
moving and fast acting bug is bringing about the end of the world with
no hope for a cure. Three couples each deal with it in their own way.
Even though their stories and experiences are different they realize
that life revolves around one thing, love. For some reason ideas and
plots for movies seem to come in clumps and no matter what they get
made back to back to back. Armageddon and Deep Impact came out very
close together. So did Volcano & Dante's Peak, Olympus Has Fallen &
White House Down, and Legend Of Hercules and soon Hercules. This movie
is part of the new up and coming trend, movies about a man made virus
that causes the apocalypse. Contagion, It's A Disaster, Goodbye World
and the more recent ones just to name a few. All of them have their
good qualities but like so many copy cat movies they are never as good
as the original. This one is no exception. Overall, good movie with a
very good cast but it is very depressing so you must be in the mood for
it. Not as good as Contagion. I give this a B-.
<|_=00=_|>
Watched this on Netflix, and it became so tedious I started to
fast-forward through the prolonged, meaningless rounds of chatter. The
ending was so incomplete you might think that they all just decided to
call it quits and walked off the set.

It was an interesting premise, the status of relationships against the
backdrop of a global health crisis. However, the crisis itself wasn't
developed in a believable manner. Dude is playing basketball blissfully
unaware that an airborne chemical weapon is drifting to the US, after
having left hundreds of millions dead in the Middle East and Europe.
(Really, that didn't turn up in his news-feed?) 

And there was little reflection within the relationship, in regard to
these terrifying events, as most of what you are subjected to is the
events in their lives prior to the release of the toxin.
<|_=00=_|>
"Parts per Billion" is that movie where you see the characters and
can't help but like them because they are spectacularly flawed. They
are human and you can relate. It is also the movie that you pray that
there will be a happy ending but there isn't.

The film follows 3 couples as they are faced with the reality of a
biological weapon which is killing the human race. We are told that it
will last exactly 8 days and until then you would need pure oxygen to
survive.

The first couple is a lawyer and her writer husband who are in their
basement as they wait out the 8 days. You see their lives and what has
led them to that moment. They are connected to the second couple (an
old married couple) through the writers sister (a nurse) and through
the lawyer representing the man in court.

The second couple is an old married couple who are directly linked to
the disease. The man helped develop the pathogen for money so as to
care for his sick daughter. We are shown their attempt to survive and
the point where they are standing in front of a hospital.They are
linked to the third couple (a young engaged couple) through the man who
is their grandson.

The third couple are a young and engaged pair. This couple seem to hold
a lot of the films focus as they are at the beginning of their marriage
while the others represent the middle and end. The young couple are
seen from the moment of their engagement to the woman telling her
fiancé she is pregnant. While we see where the others are from the
beginning we do not see the couple.

The film leaves you feeling very depressed as you are left not knowing
if the lawyer gives up and runs outside before the 8 days are up or if
the old couple died because they could not find anymore oxygen. One
thing we do find is that the young couple died in each others arms
shortly after she told her fiancé she was pregnant. AS one can imagine
this was a heartbreaking discovery and makes the watcher feel depressed
as you couldn't help but hope that they lived and were happy.

All in all it was a good film which unfortunately will not get the
attention it deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
So this takes place in an alternate Earth where the prevailing winds
over the Atlantic blow from east to west. As a consequence, some
terrible bioweapon blows all over the United States from the Middle
East, and 3 couples try to use the power of love... or something.
Apparently love doesn't conquer all, as all 3 couples give up and
presumably succumb to the mysterious pandemic.

Props to the director for filming in Detroit, which already looks like
an apocalyptic wasteland. Wonder if the bodies in the street were
extras or if the crew found them there?

You would be better served by reading the label from a bottle of Dr.
Bronner's soap (the one that the characters read from - "Dilute!
Dilute! OK!"). It's much more interesting, entertaining, and
enlightening.
<|_=00=_|>
But with a Whimper, that is how the world ends" So wrote TS Eliot.
Spoiler Alert, some plot points revealed. I have seen many of the, "End
of the World" scenarios played out, of late. This one takes a more
intimate approach then many, closer in spirit to movies like,
"Melancholia" which only hinted at the global repercussions. Three or
more couples, journey to meet their fate. The cutting from past to
present,to a possible future, is done seemingly randomly, As is the
mixing and interweaving of each couples background recollections. It's
all here folks, the love and the tears, the hopes and the fears, only
in the end to seem pathetic and meaningless. with the exception of the
little girl shot, which if showing the future offers the possibility of
redemption. Ultimately it did get wearisome, toward the end, even all
the passionate embraces could not enliven. I am grateful for these
independent films to hire senior actors,and younger actors too. There
were a few touching moments, scenes well played, I liked the soap label
scene, having had personally met Dr Bronner, of the "All One"
persuasion. I thought the "sick boy" parable was creditable.

I suppose my biggest objection with, "Parts in a Billion" was the
seeming haphazard editing. For example; We see a nurses body, and then
we flashback to get the story of the nurse. Things like that made the
events anti climatic. Not a good story telling device. 

The actors took their parts in earnest, the film was capably shot, with
good production values, The music was marginal, pared down to suit the
action. last word, Yeah, it was a depressingly serious little movie.
<|_=00=_|>
With the familiar faces of Teresa Palmer, Penn Badgley, Rosario Dawson,
Josh Hartnett, as well as Frank Langella, you must admit this seems
like an interesting collective for a film. Especially with their
stories all to be connected, much less with this possibility of death
due to biological weapons hanging in the air. But, the question is,
with a limited amount of time before a major portion of the Earth's
population being wiped out, will the film lead you to care about three
sets of people?

Characters & Story

Things begin with us being presented what in any other film would be
the introduction to a love story. Young Anna (Teresa Palmer) and Erik
(Penn Badgley) live in this cute house together, seem barely into their
adult years, and yet are helplessly in love. But, in order to pay for
the house, Erik's grandparents, Esther (Gena Rowlands) and Andy (Frank
Langella), give him money. Something which increasingly is becoming an
issue as he seeks to establish himself as a musician.

Though Andy likes giving his grandson money, especially considering his
money, which is in millions, was gained through dirty business deals.
Which is how his association with Mia (Rosario Dawson) comes about for
she is his lawyer trying to protect him from the possible issue of him
breaching his contract with his former employer. Then, lastly, when it
comes to Len (Josh Hartnett), he seems to be an almost polar opposite
to Erik. For while Erik can spend his days with his girlfriend and
write songs, Len seems to be someone who may have been big at one point
and time, but now is broke, jealous of his wife Mia, and has only his
sister Sarah (Alexis Bledel) and friend Rick (Hill Harper) to vent to.

And all together we watch these characters deal with a bioweapon attack
which happens in western Asia, with its effects spreading, despite wind
currents, across Europe and then to the United States.

Praise

If you focus on each of the three sets of stories, you can see a full
length movie within itself. Like the story between Anna and Erik could
easily be combined with Andy and Esther and make a quality and cohesive
film. For the romance between Palmer and Badgley is not only cute, but
compelling. As is this huge amount of guilt Andy has over his
involvement in creating bio-weaponry, if just because he wanted to give
his daughter, Erik's mom, a few more years. And while this may make you
think Dawson and Hartnett's roles are just extra fat, if anything they
too could be separated and with Dawson being Andy's lawyer, having
marital issues with Hartnett, and then with the bioweapon outbreak,
again you can see a full fledge and quality story come about.

Criticism

However, instead what is given is a story which has too many cooks in
the kitchen, sort of speak. I say this because, like most films which
try to spread its focus this thin, you never feel like you can truly
get into the characters for your attention quickly gets snatched away
as they move the focus to develop another set of characters. Then, to
add onto the films problems, it doesn't go in chronological order.
Which bugged me because not only was it not in order, but there was no
notification so that you knew what the time-line is for when certain
events happen. Such as whether the event took place 2 months before the
bioweapon, during the bioweapon attack, or 2 days after the attack, and
so on. And while details like that may not seem major to most, but when
you are switching between sets of characters with the time period
shifting, it does have the potential to confuse you. Also, considering
the significant moments which Palmer, Badgley, Langella and Rowlands
have, not presenting a chronological order, or at least informing you
of the time period, does slightly weaken the overall story, as well as
make it a bit more difficult to get the emotions from the actors and
take it in.

Overall: TV Viewing

To me, this film is the prime example why splitting the focus between
3, or more, sets of characters should be avoided whenever possible. It
leaves you wanting more when you really shouldn't have to, and you can
always find one set, or one character's story, which is weak enough
that you wished it was simply cut to accommodate the more focused on
characters. And because of this slightly disjointed storytelling, and
the inability to really get into the characters, I'm labeling this as
"TV Viewing."
<|_=00=_|>
A strangely compelling, end of world tale, that could easily have gone
astray but did not, due to the intimacy of the relationships told
through exquisite writing and performances. Told in a mosaic fashion
that builds to create a beautiful whole, the film first intrigues and
then, inch by inch, draws you in. Wonderful performances all round from
veterans and newcomers alike. ( Always a sign of an excellent
director.) Frank Langella, Gena Rowlands shine in the mature,
understated way of older greats. Josh Hartnett also brought something
special to his role, as did Rosario Dawson. But it was Theresa Palmer
who brought an exquisitely luminous and fragile element to her role and
really brought true soul to the whole movie. An actress well worth
keeping an eye out for.

A movie that transcends its not so uplifting subject matter to somehow
create an uplifting movie, in a melancholy kind of way. Welll worth a
deeper look.
