
To set the record straight, no one gets taken in 'Taken 3', a condition
that its principal star Liam Neeson laid down before he agreed to
return for this third and presumably final instalment. That is
perfectly fine with us; after all, how many times can ex- Special
Forces operative Bryan Mills find himself having to deploy his very
particular set of skills after a member of his family is taken away
from him? Indeed, that is not the issue we had with this utterly
disappointing third outing, which totally squanders what audience
goodwill the first movie had accumulated and its immediate predecessor
had not yet depleted.

Produced by French-based EuropaCorp, the Luc Besson and Robert Mark
Kamen-scripted 'Taken' was one of the most notable action films in
recent memory when it was released back in 2008. Key to its success was
Neeson, whose viciously efficient qualities as the former CIA badass
were excellent complement to the actor's natural gravitas and air of
gentleman nobility. The inevitable sequel that followed four years
later was a letdown to say the least; not only did it slavishly repeat
the original's formula, it toned down the former's no-holds-barred
brutality to make it more accessible to a younger audience, and in the
process losing the former's gritty, visceral, and even transgressive
edge.

Unfortunately, fans of the original hoping that the series would go out
on a bang will be sorely disappointed to know that 'Taken 3' is cast in
the same mould as the sequel. There are plenty of gunshots but no sight
of blood. There is hand-to-hand combat that plays out more like a
playground brawl between teenagers. Even a torture scene that sees
Neeson waterboard fellow co-star Dougray Scott is extremely tame in
comparison with a similar and brutally memorable one in the first
movie, that if one recalls involved the use of electric clamps that
Neeson stabbed into his nemesis' thighs. Not that we relish the
portrayal of extreme violence, but 'Taken 3' seem to know not the
difference between being restrained and being dull.

But the deadened violence isn't quite the movie's most critical flaw;
that belongs unquestionably to its director Olivier Megaton. A Besson
regular since 'Transporter 3', Megaton took over the reins from Pierre
Morel on 'Taken 2' but has apparently learnt nothing from his previous
directorial duties. If there was already a worrying ineptness to his
ability to craft a proper action sequence in 'Taken 2', then this
follow-up shows Megaton at his most incompetent.

Clearly influenced by Paul Greengrass' frenetic shooting of the
'Bourne' movies, Megaton insists on flailing hand-held camera-work,
frantic over-editing and claustrophobic close-ups to ruin every single
action sequence in the entire f**king movie (and yes, it is indeed that
frustrating to watch). A freeway car chase is reduced to a flurry of
close-ups and rapid edits that bear no continuity or coherence. A
confrontation in a liquor store between Neeson and some of the Russian
mobsters who took his ex-wife's life is shot in such close-ups it is
impossible to make out who is doing what. And worst of all, there is no
climax to speak of  not when a shootout between Neeson and another
group of Russian mobsters protecting their boss Oleg Malankov (Sam
Spruell) is so poorly staged it makes not a single iota of sense, or
when a race between a Porsche driven by Neeson and a private plane ends
in an collision that takes out the plane's front wheel but leaves no
one hurt.

It is even more infuriating to think that Megaton manages to f**k up
every single sequence when there aren't that many to begin with.
Eschewing the simple set-up of the previous two films, Besson and Kamen
have instead opted here for a more plot-driven narrative, setting
Neeson up against Forest Whitaker's LAPD Detective Franck Dotzler even
while the former hunts down his wife's killers. That certainly recalls
the dynamic between Harrison Ford and Tommy Lee Jones in 'The
Fugitive', but 'Taken 3' is nowhere as smart and Whitaker nowhere near
as keen as Jones' ever was. Though Besson and Kamen's script opts for
double-crosses, hidden agendas and whodunits to keep their audience's
attention, it is quite clear right at the very start just who has been
pulling the strings, a mystery that once solved makes the rest of the
proceedings unnecessarily protracted.

Not that it actually matters  while Neeson went about methodically
tracking down his kidnapped family in the first and second movies, he
rarely exhibits the same kind of discipline clearing his name here. Too
much time is spent on emotionally hollow character relationships in the
first act, i.e. between Bryan and his young adult daughter Kim (Maggie
Grace), or between Bryan and his ex-wife Lenore (Famke Janssen), or
between Bryan and Lenore's current husband Stuart (Scott), while the
second act is equally wasted on Bryan's strenuous efforts to contact
Kim who is placed under the close watch of the LAPD. By the time Bryan
actually gets down to investigating, almost everyone involved looks
more keen on getting it over and done  none more so than Neeson, who
looks tired and completely uninterested from scene to scene.

Perhaps Neeson is all too aware that the 'Taken' franchise has
completely sputtered out; indeed, 'Taken 3' plays almost like a parody
of the original movie, which was to action fans a sheer unbridled
delight for its realistic stuntwork and hand-to-hand combat. Both these
elements are sorely and sadly missing from a movie that can't even get
its priorities right, no thanks to the utter shocking ineptitude of its
director. Like we said, no one in the movie gets taken, but little did
we know that the title was meant to be a joke on its audience, who are
literally taken for a ride here. Spare yourself the agony, frustration
and disappointment, and just NOT get on in the first place.
<|_=00=_|>
3 stars might be a little harsh seeing as I did enjoy this film, but I
enjoyed it for all the wrong reasons. Seemed like a movie made by
idiots for idiots. Anyone who is mildly intelligent will find it
laughable.

Where do I start, the way this film was shot was poor at best, no scene
lasted longer the 3 minutes to try and achieve the same relentless pace
we enjoyed from the first Taken movie. This was even worse during any
action sequence where there would be about 20 different shots in a
space of 30 seconds showing pretty much the same event from pointless
angles. 

The dialogue, so cheesy, they put in every cliché line from any action
movie you can think of, one dimensional characters sounding like
idiots. There was a moment in this film where Mills plugs in a USB into
a LAPD computer and the computers voices says "You are currently
accessing the LAPD hidden files" just in case people in the cinema
missed this. 

This movie treats its audience like they are slow, and I feel you
actually have to be to enjoy it for what it is. Some of the actions
sequences were so unrealistic even a 9 your boy would find it a push to
believe let alone us adults. Poor way to end a dying trilogy. Hopefully
it will now stay dead.
<|_=00=_|>
You'd have to be an idiot to trust the opinion of someone who can't
review a movie without waffling for 20 minutes. Listen to me; you won't
be sorry. This is not a good movie. Taken was pretty good; Taken
2...not so much. This one is just bad; It's just an old guy running
around, shooting at stuff. None of the clever stuff from the other 2
movies is here. Nothing that made Taken good is in here. Nothing that
made Taken 2 at least recognizable as a Taken movie is here. 

If you ignore me and watch it anyway, I will look for you, I will find
you...you know the rest. Actually, if you'd sat through this movie,
you'd probably welcome the sweet relief. I meant to end this review
right after "This movie is bad", but IMDb apparently likes people to
waffle, and there is a 10 line minimum.
<|_=00=_|>
Whoever edited and filmed this, should visit a doctor ASAP.

The editing is atrocious, you can't see anything during the action
scenes. Moves and hits are usually lost and you can't see who is
hitting who, where, how. If you think Taken 2 was bad, this movie takes
the spot at clearly trying to do the worst to suck badly.

The movie is also slow and it's less focused on action, if compared to
the previous ones. 

By the way, if nobody is taken, then why is it called Taken? Is it
because my money was TAKEN by a crappy movie?

Bad guys appear in the first 5 minutes and then come back only after
the 1 hour mark. That means we got almost 1 hour of pure nonsense.

Our hero destroys at least 20 cars, obviously killing innocent people.
Nothing happens to him, he's called a hero, he is free to walk away,
Such cool guy that Brian Mills!!!

This movie is a turd and you should avoid. Ah, it doesn't even have a
real conclusion. If Taken 4 gets made ( you know it'll get made ), we
know his grandchild is gonna be Taken. I'm serious, he now has a
freaking grandchild to take care.
<|_=00=_|>
In Los Angeles, Lenore St. John (Famke Janssen) is murdered with sliced
throat in the apartment of her ex-husband Bryan Mills (Liam Neeson) and
he is accused by the police of murdering her. Detective Franck Dotzler
(Forest Whitaker) pursues Bryan while he investigate who might be the
killer and protects his daughter Kim (Maggie Grace). Bryan discovers
that the Russian gangster Oleg Malankov (Sam Spruell) is the
responsible of Lenore's death and together with his team of friends and
Lenore's husband Stuart St. John (Dougray Scott), he hunts him down.
But why Lenore was killed?

"Taken 3" is a movie with awful camera, edition and direction and
senseless plot. The edition is annoying with several cuts, but the plot
is ridiculous. When Bryan is arrested at the gas station, no police
officer is interested to see the surveillance camera footage. Why
should he drug his daughter instead of putting a note in the yogurt
scheduling a meeting with her in the toilet? How did he escape from the
explosion in the elevator? Oleg's building is surrounded by security
system, but a van parks in the parking area and no guard comes to
check. Stuart spends lots of time in the van and it is not strange for
the security guards. Why Stuart need to flee abducting Kim? Did Bryan's
friend die in the van? Bryan causes several accidents on the highway
certainly with injured people; destroys a parking building and cars;
destroys an airplane; but in the end everything is OK. My vote is four.

Title (Brazil): "Perseguição Implacável 3" ("Implacable Search 3")
<|_=00=_|>
One of the worst movie editing I've ever seen in my life for an action
movie. That killed the movie for me. I think they should just withdraw
Taken 2 and Taken 3 and admit that they should have stopped at the
first one.

This movie was so boring, and when you expected to see some action
scenes, you were getting yourself in the paranoid mind of a director
who wanted to experiment on the poor audience. My eyes still hurt from
the crappy editing of this movie.

Guys please stop here, enough, no more Taken sequels. With each one of
them you're killing the hype that the first one created.
<|_=00=_|>
In the beginning, former special forces expert Bryan Mills (Liam
Neeson) found that his daughter was taken in Paris while, in the
sequel, he himself was taken in Istanbul. Clearly Neeson took a bit of
persuading to play the role a third time, but it would appear that
three factors persuaded him: first, he didn't want to do any travelling
this time (so all the shooting -in both senses of the word - is in the
overly-familiar Los Angeles where he goes "down the rabbit hole");
second, apparently he didn't think anyone should be taken this time
(and the writers obeyed the injunction until near the end when they
just couldn't resist any more); and third, he wanted the money.

This is a movie which divides the critics and the public: the former
have been very condescending about it but the later enjoy Mills using
his special skills again and again (and you can't really blame them).
The bad guys here are (mostly) Russians who have terrible accents and
awful clothes (especially underwear), but it is always a pleasure to
see Forest Whitaker (an intelligent member of the LAPD who knows the
significance of a warm bagel). The tag line in the advertisements for
"Taken 3" is "It ends here" and I think that would be a sensible
decision (although I wouldn't guarantee it).
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, sure, there are a ton of sequels that both "take" down a series,
but also "take" it too far. Taken 3 is the A Good Day to Die Hard of
the series and by God, I hope both movies end the two franchises. 

I recently gave Taken 2 another chance after not liking it the first
time it was released. Wow. If anyone thought that movie was bad, just
watch the third chapter I initially was hoping would be the Last
Crusade of the series. False. And I actually like Taken 2 the second
time a whole lot more than the first viewing.

This absolutely atrocious sequel that has nothing to do with the
series, let alone anything to do with "TAKING," is basically a
sometimes action script that was altered to piggyback on the successful
series. Yes. Just like Troll 2 and just about as bad.

After an incredibly stale opening that, again, feels nothing like a
"Taken" movie, it continues with basically, the same dumb opening of
Alien 3. What follows is an amazingly predictable movie where a
wrongfully accused 62-year-old actor acts like someone as athletic as
someone a third of his age and can escape explosions as easily as
Batman dodging a nuclear explosion in under 5 seconds. It's no wonder
Liam Neeson starred in The A-Team movie  he never has a scratch on him
after unbelievably surviving multiple car wrecks that would easily kill
999 out of 1,000 people.

What this movie should've done was to fire Liam, hire Jason Statham,
rename this as Transporter 4 and acknowledge the silliness like that
series did. 

The decision is clear: Watch 2008's Taken and repeatedly. No need to
see #2 or #3. Dear God, please let there be no fourth Taken. I can't
possibly "take" this anymore.

* * *

Final thoughts: Lesson learned  to clear your name from a crime you
didn't commit, kill as many people in cold blood while leaving more
than enough evidence behind  not to mention, admitting to the police
that you murdered someone  and then you can live happily ever after.
For shits and giggles, run a car into a plane taking off that's holding
the very person you're trying to protect. Don't worry, it'll survive
the explosion, as, um, most planes do.
<|_=00=_|>
Taken 3: Liam Neeson is the king of action movies. He is the ultimate
badass. Every action movie I have seen with Liam Neeson, I have
enjoyed. Every single film... except Taken 3. Liam Neeson tried but
ultimately the movie was terrible. The film suffers from a near non-
existent plot that thinks a lot of car chases and explosions is enough
to make this movie passable- it was not. 

Not often in an action movie do I find myself getting bored, but it
happened here. During one of the unmemorable scenes of the car chase, I
found myself wondering what Liam Neeson's character Bryan Mills is
trying to accomplish here. The answers was nothing. I thought long and
hard about it throughout the film and came to the conclusion there was
no actual point to the chase. It added nothing to the plot and Bryan
Mills could have easily gotten rid of the cops before they even
hand-cuffed him because of his "very special set of skills" which he
exhibited numerous times throughout the film. Hollywood should know
that, although Liam Neeson is awesome in every way, he is not a
substitute for a well- throughout plot. 

The script was even worse. The dialogue throughout the movie was
terrible. None of the lines added any depth to the characters. We
already knew the returning characters but the new characters could have
been horrendously murdered and the audience wouldn't have really cared
because the director didn't give any depth to them. Worst of all Forest
Whitaker's character Detective Franck Dotzler was said to be smart
numerous times, but the grand conclusion he makes at the end of the
film is something the audience figured out in ten seconds. I don't want
to give away the big surprise but it has to do with "very tasty
bagels."

I honestly felt bad for Liam Neeson during this movie. His acting was
as good as it could be, but the script and plot were terrible. He had
to carry the movie from the very second it started. I know he had a
contract to do the film, but I would have demanded a rewrite if I was
him because it was about a thousand times worse than the original
Taken. Again, Liam Neeson was still incredible as always and only
because of him, watching the movie was not a total waste of time. 

This movie might be an entertaining movie to watch on DVD or video on
demand. That is a big might though. I do not recommend you see this
movie in theaters and you should only watch it if you are having a
really boring Sunday afternoon. 

For more of my reviews, go to my website at reviewsbywest.com
<|_=00=_|>
Taken 3 is a step down from Taken 2, itself a lesser film than the
original. But that is to be expected and forgiven. The title could be
considered an unimaginative misnomer, but it makes marketing sense.

Aside from the part of Stuart (husband to Famke Janssen's Lenore), the
casting is consistent. The addition of Forest Whitaker as a smart cop
is for me something of a saving grace since Taken 3 offers up
absurdities without question. On reflection, however, the plot has
enough coherence to do the trilogy justice. Moreover, it is a joy to
see Liam Neeson in this role again.

The director Olivier Megaton has an irksome penchant for frenetic,
up-close, disorienting action sequences whereby shots are rarely longer
than two seconds. He was a little better in this regard for Taken 2,
which had the benefit of superior choreography.

Another personal point of contention is the casting of Sam Spruell as
the top Russian villain. He has not an imposing physical constitution
and quite frankly brings to mind Jim Carrey, who sported the same
haircut in the Dumb and Dumber movies. Not at all what I want in a
villain.

I generally enjoy the films I see, and this onenotwithstanding the
negativesis no exception. However, I would not recommend it for people
who are more stern in matters of taste.
