
He's handsome, she's gorgeous. He owes money lenders a lot of money,
she's has some dough. It's your usual boy- meets-girl flick, but this
time, there's a lot of running around and jumping, all in the name of
parkour.

The only thing that kept me awake was the action, which, after awhile,
got a bit blas√©. 

Lautner's character may have got into trouble because his desire to pay
off his debts, but it certainly doesn't absolve him from using ill-
gotten wealth to clear them. 

2 out of 5 stars

wwww.facebook/jeffleemovies.com
<|_=00=_|>
The two young stars, Canadian beauty Marie Avgeropoulos and Taylor
Lautner, are both considerably better than the material.

Which is a back-handed compliment since the material is pretty
terrible.

What you have here is a targeted-to-young-audience "street drama" with
pretensions of being an action thriller because of the backdrop of
Free-Jumping. In fact the closest antecedents would be the "crime
dramas" of the 1940s. Sort of.

That is a lot of ambition here and very little in the way of delivery.

There are problems galore. The script is all over the place. Sometimes
it thinks it is a rom-com. Sometimes it thinks it is a Van Damme
knockoff. And sometimes it thinks it is West Side Story.

The free-jumping scenes are over-directed. What that means is that
while the film tries to maintain a "street cred" sort of realism, the
action scenes are so well choreographed you might think you were
watching a music video. This creates dissonance, which does not help
the viewer experience.

And the action climax, the last 10 minutes which is where most films
get to shine, is actually weaker than the first 10 minutes, where the
romance starts. Which is hardly a great recommendation.

Bottom line: the two stars deserve better. Much better.
<|_=00=_|>
Surprisingly, this seems to be inspired by the book, Tracers, by J.J. 
Howard. Although, it is not listed as an adaptation, the book and the 
movie follow the same plot. Taylor Lautner acts in a low-budget action 
movie that seems to take the Direct-To-DVD route. Unsurprisingly, the 
trailer is unconvincing. Perhaps, the trailer didn't show much except 
pointless parkour scenes. So when I watched it, I have already lowered 
my expectations. It turns out that the movie is just borderline 
entertaining. Calling it an action thriller is an overstatement.

The story: Taylor Lautner acts as Cam, a bicycle messenger, who is in 
debt. One day, he knocks into an attractive female, Nikki (Marie 
Avgeropoulos). And guess what, he becomes interested in what she does: 
parkour. If you are wondering where the story is leading to, for the 
first hour, it is leading to nowhere. You see Cam training hard and 
falling for Nikki. There is no sense of threat and there is no 
life-threatening or thrilling action scene. The last half and hour sees 
Cam realising what he has involved himself with. The action plot 
catches up late and it becomes rushed and pointless. It is almost for 
the sake of action sake, a character turns into a 'villain' and gives 
Cam the chase of his life during the climax. The parkour and chase 
scenes are not too bad however at times, they are marred by extremely 
shaky camera work. Acting wise is just passable. Music is serviceable 
during the action.

Overall: It is screened in Singapore's cinemas. I would say the shaky 
camera work and tepid action storyline are not worth the watch on big 
screen. It is disappointingly tepid when it is classified as an action 
thriller but if you are able to overlook at its classified genre, it 
may be worth a watch on a rainy and boring day.

<|_=00=_|>
Moronic bike messenger meets a pretty girl and then teaches himself
parkour in a montage in order to join up with her parkour gang, led by
an older guy who you will immediately peg as the movie's villain.
Anyway, this dumb kid can't pay his bills and owes the Chinese mafia
$15,000. During his training montage, I kept thinking to myself "maybe
this is why this kid can't pay his debts -- he's doing this instead of
working." It's a pretty by-the-numbers movie of its type. The lead
character is one of the most hard-to-like protagonists I've come across
in recent memory. The guy is a total loser who seems to have the
intelligence of a gerbil. They give him a hard-luck backstory that will
have you rolling your eyes. He's a high school dropout who doesn't show
up for work and turns into a thief living in a makeshift tent on a
roof. I'm not sure he even bathes and he certainly doesn't shave that
scruff off his face. The stunts are okay but the plot (and especially
the romance) is uninspired. It's one of those movies where characters
have to do the stupidest things at all times in order to keep the plot
moving. There are also a frustrating number of loose ends that are not
tied up by the end of the film. But there is a twist late in the movie
that was somewhat surprising, so I'll give it that. Ultimately it's a
forgettable movie but it's worth watching once. If you enjoy laughing
at bad movies you'll probably get more entertainment out of it than
most people. Oh and here's an example of this movie's great dialogue:
"...tattoos are like scars that you wear on the outside to hide the
pain that's on the inside." Script must be by R.M. Drake.
<|_=00=_|>
Taylor Lautner may always be remembered as Jacob, the annoying werewolf
boy from the Twilight Series. People have a hard time seeing him as
anything else, but Tracers is the second action film I've seen him star
in, and this kid has the perfect make up to be a huge action star.
Lautner is more than just another good looking actor, as he can speak
several languages, is a martial arts expert, and an avid parkourer, all
skills he uses in his latest film, Tracers. Lautner plays Cam, a down
on his luck bike messenger, who comes to befriend a group of parkour
enthusiasts. What they do fascinates Cam and he wants to join them, but
when he does, he realizes that they aren't just clowning around, they
use their skills to commit crime, and once he's in, Cam has no way out.
Original action films are hard to come by, as most people are satisfied
with all the special effects and dead bodies. It's a genre that really
doesn't call for originality, that's why when you come across a film
like this, it's a breath of fresh air. The stunts and moves you see in
this film are nothing short of magic, and it's star Taylor Lautner did
them all himself. We are so used to seeing Lautner as the sensitive
love interest in some romanticized film, that it's hard to even imagine
him as an action star, but that changes 10 minutes into this film. It's
the stunts, the attitude, his characters whole personality, that makes
his a unique a-typical action star, and it is really something to see.
On the surface, Tracers may be nothing more than another story about a
group of burglars, but what they can do is extraordinary, and was
really fun to watch. This film is original, fast paced, and brings to
light a new action star, who isn't in his sixties or the WWE. It may
not have all the bodies and explosions normally associated with this
type of film, but as I said, It was a lot of fun to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Quickie Review:

Burdened by the debt he owes the Chinese mafia, Cam (Taylor Lautner)
must find a quick way to earn money. In his desperation he joins a
group of street runners who use their skills to commit high-paying
crimes. Cam soon finds himself in criminal world with higher stakes
than he expected. Other than the parkour scenes there is no other
redeemable quality to Tracers. In fact there is a severe lack of
quality in acting and story logic. This should have been a simple
crime-heist movie with some parkour action in it. Instead there are
numerous instances of forced drama that you will not care about at all.
This movie is simply a waste of time.

Full Review:

Let's be blunt here, other than the Twilight fans nobody is looking
forward to a Taylor Lautner movie. Then again I used feel the same way
about Kirsten Stewart and Robert Pattinson, but lately they have been
making good decisions in choosing their roles. So I thought I'd give
Lautner the benefit of the doubt. I was wrong.

I'll give Tracers this, the parkour scenes were well done. There were
plenty of these chase scenes and they did bring some excitement in an
otherwise dull movie. It's not to the skill level of parkour master
David Belle in the French film District B13, but the chase scenes were
certainly the best parts of movie. That's where the kudos end for me.

I think everyone would agree that movies should try to make us
empathize with the main characters. However, the writers try to achieve
this by going overboard and giving everyone a troubled past. I mean we
have characters who are in deep debt with the Chinese mafia, have been
abandoned by their father, had a mother who died after being evicted,
living on scraps on the streets, attempted sexual assault victim. With
all these problems and horrible past I'm shocked they are even
functioning human beings! Every other scene is some character deeply
brooding about how their hoping for a better life. Then there is a love
story that doesn't make sense beyond "hey you're kinda hot, I'm kinda
hot. Let's get it on." Oh and of course that comes with an obligatory
love triangle that you see coming from miles away. There is no
chemistry because the dialog and the performances are cringe worthy.
Honestly, why these people are even interacting together makes no
sense. As if the movie wasn't bloated enough with unnecessary
backstories, there are random twists and turns in the story that are
very illogical because there was no previous setup.

I am sure some will say I'm overthinking this. No, I'd argue it's the
writers who overthought this movie. There was a good hook here: using
parkour skills to pull off heists. All that was needed was a simple
story to give reason for these chase scenes, but they try to add drama
with poorly written characters and the laughable performances didn't
help either. Definitely not worth parkour running out to see it.

Check out more on my movie review blog The Stub Collector:
http://thestubcollector.wordpress.com/
<|_=00=_|>
The story presents a common used plot line of a desperate loner who
gets cornered into learning a new thing or skill only to get betrayed
by his mentor at the end. The movie shows really nice parkour action.
The freestyle bike and chase action is also not bad. What really
reduces the action's quality is for me the way the movie uses the
camera to capture those action. The overly zoomed and overly unstable
camera movements may look good to the common shootout or hand to hand
combat. But it cuts away great parts of the parkour moves. Taylor
Lautner doing a good chunk of the parkour moves is really something
nice for this movie. It really adds the authenticity. Too bad that the
other cast don't really balance his acting well enough
<|_=00=_|>
"Tracers" offers decent parkour action scenes and a better than average
BMX action scene. The parkour isn't nearly as well choreographed as the
opening scene in "Casino Royale" or most of the scenes in "Banlieue
B13," and is often not credible because the characters make seemingly
blind leaps on unfamiliar cityscapes, but the scenes are shown in a
realistic manner and Taylor Lautner the other actors seem to do much of
their own stunt work. 

The script brings entirely new dimensions to the concept of "lame." It
might pull passing marks as a high school creative writing assignment
if it were submitted on a day when the instructor was in a good mood,
but fails miserably as a movie script. The film often feels like some
insipid urban hip hop dance movie with predominantly lily white
protagonists and parkour substituted for dance. 

The inciting incident involves the protagonist being distracted by the
love interest to the point that he damages his property. In a fit of
frustration, he discards it, even though it could easily be repaired
and he needs it for work and he's desperate for money, then goes home
to his well-equipped garage and does an analogous repair for his
landlady's kid. Meanwhile, the girl feels bad because this person she
doesn't know damaged property that could be replaced for a hundred
dollars or repaired for fifty, so she buys him something to replace it
that costs about a thousand dollars and somehow tracks him down and has
it delivered to his place of employment. 

This is just one example of the muddled motivations of the characters.

There's a Chinese bookie that wants his money right away. Why? It's not
as if he needs the money. He should want his money on the street
earning vigorish. If the borrower is still paying but running a little
late, all the better as it provides an excuse to tack on extra charges. 

Why do the hero and heroine fall in love? Because they're both so
irresistibly attractive, but have absolutely no other active love
interests and both have athletic bodies that they keep hidden beneath
baggy sweats. Because they have troubled pasts and limited future
prospects. Because a movie like this needs a central love story. The
romantic angle seems superficial, to put it mildly. 

If you're a criminal, why reveal part of your devious plan in a room
that the police undoubtedly have wired for sound? 

If you're planning something that requires a team of five people to use
parkour to get out of a dangerous situation, wouldn't it make more
sense to rehearse in that same area so everybody learns the terrain
rather than keeping the location a secret? 

If you need to stop the action for a scene with exposition explaining
the meaning of the title to the audience, would it make sense to
consider a different title? 

What does jumping through windows have to do with parkour? 

Characters are given flimsy generic backgrounds in a half-hearted
effort to make them three-dimensional, but character development is
pretty much nonexistent. The parkour moves are not nearly as extreme as
in other films, but they're made to seem too easy. We don't see the
grueling training that is necessary to master the techniques or any
consideration of different approaches to clearing an obstacle. The
dangers and need for practice are given lip service in dialogue, but
not shown, other than a shot of a scar that has long since healed. Some
of the free runners seem to be there to fill the screen, as there is
little interaction between the characters. Dialogue is heavy on
exposition with little subtext and even less humor. If there is a moral
or theme, it would take a far more astute observer than this humble
critic to understand it. Parkour is described as overcoming obstacles
in your mind, but never becomes an allegory for overcoming the
obstacles in life. 

The film lacks passion. Not that it should be melodramatic or devolve
into pathos, but everyone behaves as if they are on Quaaludes when they
aren't scaling walls. The most dramatically intense scene occurs when
something happens to a car that hasn't run in a very long time. 

The parkour and BMX action scenes are fun to watch but not great. The
story is a hackneyed and derivative disappointment. The actors do well
with the action scenes and as well as can be expected with the dialogue
they're given. The one love scene is shot so modestly it won't need to
be edited out for network television and might not even cause much
furor if shown in Muslim countries. Production values are adequate,
although the use of jiggly-cam in static shots is distracting.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this movie. It did exactly what it intended to do,
entertain. The pace was just right for me. The character relationships
were, for the most part, believable. I don't think they set out to win
an Academy Award, but more to make a quality action film of this genre
that would entertain a wide variety of tastes. The ladies will like
this along with their men. The only weak spot was the character of
Miller and that was more the writing than the acting. Also I cringe
when an actors lines have to explain the plot instead of the story
itself doing the job but that was very minor in this case. Marie
Avgeropoulos is new to me and I want more. I rated it 9 because I got
more than I expected. Truthfully I hope there's more. I can easily see
how a series of films based from this could be possible.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd really recommend watching this movie all the way through. It
doesn't carry you all the way, so you need to have some preliminary
interest(s) in the genres of this film, mainly parkour. If you are
looking for a good parkour film, you're in luck and you should be
pleased overall. Its also not bad for action, crime, or thriller
genre-fans either. 

The cast does a good job in their roles, though the script is fairly
basic. The story-arc is intriguing throughout the majority, and while
there are a few holes, I was left feeling content with the final
execution. There is a very good amount of parkour-"action", so if you
have any interest in this area, you should be well pleased.

I had no interest in the teen-drama aspect of the film, but the other
aspects of the film allowed me to endure this weak point. They were
probably trying to appeal to the female, Taylor Lautner fan-crowd on
the romantic aspects of the story line. This is the first film I've
seen him star or co-star in, and I will say that he did a decent job.
It looked like he did a fair amount of the parkour moves himself, so he
has my respect for his dedication to training for this film.

If you are a fan of District B13 movies, the video game Mirror's Edge,
or just a parkour enthusiast in general, I really think you'll enjoy
this flic overall.
