
Alright, I confess, I simply could not get through this. And I tried,
god knows I did, but the amount of deeply unpleasant police brutality
played for laughs, and the extremely overt misandric humor, not to
mention the good old-fashioned mind-boggling stupidity of it all, in
the FIRST TEN MINUTES ALONE was just about as much as I could take. I
soldiered on for another half hour or so but couldn't make it to the
end. The Melissa McCarthy character is just foul, a female fascist pig
(sow? can I say that?) screaming abuse at every man she meets and
taking glee in inflicting completely unnecessary physical pain on them
just for laughs. Playing Russian Roulette pointing a loaded gun at a
man's genitals. Taking a teenage boy to jail just for smoking a joint
and going out of her way to destroy the family life of a foolish john
caught trying to pick up a streetwalker. We're supposed to find this
kind of contempt and hostility funny and... empowering? something like
that. But I really didn't. And if the genders were reversed, neither
would anyone else. Neither would you.

Anyhow, I don't know which is the more astoundingly implausible: Sandra
Bullock effortlessly being the best cop on the force without doing a
single scrap of detective work or the morbidly obese McCarthy
successfully chasing after and catching a 19 year old black kid in peak
physical condition. I guess the latter, just for sheer absurd
spectacle, but it's a close call.

There's a few funny moments around the McCarthy character's family
dinner table, and you get to see Bill Burr for a little bit, which is
always worth a watch. But still: awful, awful film.
<|_=00=_|>
Warning - Spoilers ahead: Who is writing all the rave reviews here?
This is one of the worst movies ever. Cringe-making scenes of drunken
writhing and vomiting. Non-stop F-bombs from an obese slovenly woman
police officer. Why does her boss tolerate an interminable scene where
she comments on how small smaller and smallest his testicles are?
Affirmative action? Several scenes of binge drinking, random shooting
between the eyes or between the legs of good guys and/or bad guys. Who
cared anymore? Then Sandra Bullock gets stabbed in the leg three times
with a 2-inch knife blade and says Ow! Ow! a few times. Har! Har! Funny
- huh? We saw this at an early matin√©e on 7-1-13 with only one other
older man in the audience. He left halfway thru - didn't even finish
his popcorn. Yet the movie finished #2 at the box-office this week. I
guess that's where the rave reviews are coming from. Man - am I out of
step.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never come so close of walking out of a movie theater in my life.
The film was really that bad. And the script was even worse. This must
have been written by someone with just one brain cell or two, at the
most. It wasn't funny or entertaining at any point. So how can a studio
spend even one dollar on a crappy script like this, a script that
shouldn't have seen the light of day in the first place? It' a complete
mystery to me.

The actresses unfortunately aren't much better either I'm afraid. Since
they have no chemistry at all, both are doing their own thing. McCarthy
is cursing and foul-mouthing 24/7, probably to make her look hip, cool
& tough. Well the contrary was the case. She was just annoying from
start to finish.

And Sandra Bullock? What the hell is she doing in this picture? How
could she have sold herself out to this garbage? I can't remember
another film where she was this bad (I haven't seen 'All about Steve').
There are only two films this year so far that were worse. 'Movie 43'
and 'Scary Movie 5'. And now there is 'The Heat'... Yes it's really
that bad.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot understand all the very negative reviews for this movie. They
almost convinced me not to watch it. Fortunately, the decent reviews
convinced me to take an chance, and I am glad I did. This movie is as
good a comedy as any of the decent comedies to come out in the last two
years, of which there were not many. The acting was top class. The
script was very funny and the direction was just right. The leads
complimented each other perfectly. The pace was very good and kept you
interested. Even the slower part which was only a very small portion of
the overall movie, but was one of the things which made it more human
and easier to relate to. Well worth a look.
<|_=00=_|>
What are all you moaners bitching about? Seriously what did you expect?
Yes it's foul mouthed! It made that perfectly clear on the trailer! I
am not dumb, nor am I a junior high student as stated from another
negative review. But I got exactly what I wanted! Rude, crude and
hilarious laughs a plenty! Yes it's cheap, yes it's not particularly
intelligent but it is very funny! And the screening I went to was sold
out and the entire auditorium were laughing their asses off just like
me! And that's why it's been a hit at the box office! So all you haters
go crawl back under your rocks and get a sense of humour and stop
rating this movie a 1 when it does exactly what it set out to do! Make
you laugh!
<|_=00=_|>
I have no problem with remakes. Considering how much it costs to make a
movie these days, selling something that people enjoyed the first time
makes sense; it's a predictable return on the studio's investment, and
it's easy to market a movie that's just like "so-and-so meets such-and-
such". So, when a studio wants to remake an 80s buddy-cop comedy, with
women in the lead roles, I say why not? There are enough Murphy-Nolte,
Gibson-Glover, and Willis-everybody role models out there, how could
you go wrong?

Here's how. Instead of ripping off a successful buddy-cop franchise,
The Heat has Running Scared meeting The Odd Couple. Instead of a
completely unconvincing pairing of a Borscht Belt ham and a tap dancer,
they've got Sandra Bullock playing, yet again, a neurotic tight-ass and
Melissa McCarty playing, yet again, a foul-mouthed slob. These two
completely unlikable, and unbelievable, characters, one an FBI agent
who somehow manages to confound detection dogs with her ability to find
hidden drugs and weapons despite a complete lack of detection skills,
and the other a Boston cop who (somehow) manages to successfully work
undercover, in her own neighborhood, despite being morbidly obese,
obnoxiously loud, and wearing the same clothes for days at a time. Both
are (deservedly) pariahs within their respective departments, who
somehow succeed despite their own individual and collective
incompetence, and grow to adopt each other's most annoying bad habits.
This movie plays to an audience's lowest, dumbest instincts- sadly, it
will probably be a hit. Avoid at all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe this was outside my demographic. There were several women in the
theater laughing hysterically the whole movie. I think I chuckled once
or twice or maybe I threw up a little in my mouth - I'm not sure. I
LOVED Bridesmaids so I was expecting a funny movie. This movie was
depressing and I would have walked out but my girlfriend was enjoying
herself so we stayed.

Decent cast and some good comedians which had nothing to work with. I
was saying the lines before the characters were, they were so obvious.
The plot is terrible with no surprises and the script seemed to be an
ad lib for Mellissa McCarthy. Don't get me wrong she is funny but it
got to the point the movie seemed like a 2 hour Saturday Night Live
skit. The executions and deaths were puzzling in a comedy. Our heroines
waving guns in the faces of innocent civilians for laughs wasn't funny.
The message that Sandra Bullock couldn't get a man because she was
threatening to men was ridiculous. 

The Heat is more like a summer blizzard. I can't recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
Not sure if it counts as a 'spoiler' to emphasise how bad this movie
is. Its only redeeming feature was the depressing thought I had when a
quarter of the way through that it might have been a blessing to
humanity if the whole invention of cinema had never been invented, just
so that civilisation could have been spared of such trash. I suppose I
might be being a tad harsh, since there was one or two reasonably funny
moments from a couple of minor characters - but the overwhelming sense
was that the only chance this film had of being watchable was if the
two main characters had been wiped out within the first 5 minutes and
the end credits started rolling there and then. I would not have minded
so much in paying good money and might even have thought this was an
art-house short film with a worthwhile message. 

However, as it was, please, please spend 100 minutes in your dentist
chair instead.
<|_=00=_|>
The Heat is hilarious! I watched this film twice while on some recent
flights and laughed out loud both times. Sandra Bullock and Melissa
McCarthy are well cast as the misfit FBI and Boston cop team tasked
with finding a local drug lord. Yes its a female cop "buddy" movie and
yes it works, thanks to Bullock's and McCarthy's funny lines and well
timed physical comedy.

The Heat is refreshing to watch. Unique in today's all too male focused
cinema, The Heat's two main characters are women and NOT typical
stereotyped females - no big breasts, skin tight unrealistic clothing
and high heals, no bleach blonde airheadedness, and no, they don't get
frightened and wait for some guy to to come along and save the day.
Neither of these women pine away for men to come sweep them off their
feet and get married. Neither possess any stereotyped domestic skills
(McCarthy's character calls curtains "window blankets" and keeps her
refrigerator stocked with high powered weapons). Both are very career
focused and the best at what they do, and both are very very funny.

Yes this movie contains lots of profanity, as many reviewers have
noted, but what recent male buddy comedy hasn't? Hot Tub Time Machine,
The Hangover I, II, and III, Grown Ups, This is the End, etc. ....all
very funny buddy movies starring men and all contained lots of
profanity that isn't really noted in reviews. So why is The Heat's
profanity even noted? Because its women mouthing the words? I think it
was even funnier with Bullock and McCarthy (especially McCarthy
"tattletits") then if done by male characters - unexpected and well
timed.

I was pleasantly surprised that in this movie era where only men are
allowed to have fun, and women only get bit parts, that this movie got
the green light. Hopefully this is the beginning of a new era in
Hollywood where female stereotypes get replaced by movies that give
women more lead roles and opportunities to act in comedies, dramas, you
name it, outside of stupid outdated stereotypes.

If you're in need of a good laugh watch The Heat- seriously fun comedy
for adults!
<|_=00=_|>
I remember when I saw reviews when "The Heat" first came out,
everybody, and I mean everybody was bashing this movie. Saying it was
worthless, stupid, vulgar, pointless etc. It even got to the stage
where people were getting so offensive and making death threats to the
film makers. Seriously, all of you, i'm here to tell you, BACK THE HELL
OFF! And, for those people out there, who are really smart, do not
believe what you have been told. This movie is truly great in so many
different ways.

It is, indeed, the stereotypical buddy-cop type movie. But, if you can
exclude that clich√©, it is actually, extremely well thought out and
well put together.

We start off with a professional, smart agent named Detective Ashburn
(Sandra Bullock). She has everything you could have. She's smart,
intelligent, polite, so committed to her job that it makes other
officers look bad. Yet, somehow, has relationship troubles, does not
have any friends, and just works, works, works until she can sleep.

Now, we have Officer Mullins (Melissa McCarthy . She is the complete
opposite of Ashburn. Mullins is vulgar, crude, rough, tough, mean and
says the f word almost in every sentence, and is not afraid to shoot
your dick off or throw watermelons at you! Both of them are fighting
over a serious case over a serial killer named Larkin. Larkin means
business, this man kills families, and is not afraid to kill anyone who
gets in his way of either drugs or murder.

The humor is a combination of everything. There is a lot of witty
humor, and at the same time, loads of vulgar humor. I loved the
chemistry between Mullins and Ashburn as well. I like how we watch them
slowly have a connection with each other and start talking about each
others lives and how they start forming a friendship they have never
had before.

In my opinion, hilarious, lots of action, lots chemistry and loads of
fun. Don't know where everyone else went wrong! 10/10
