
This padded-out feature would have made a very good short. There are
good scenes, and ideas worth considering, but absolutely not enough of
them for a feature. The stop-motion and design are great, but it has
problems on the story/art/intellect side because of stretching the run
time past what the story/themes can bear.

Too many of the scenes (whether attempts at exploring the humdrum, or
attempts at absurdist conflict) subtract more than they add to the
whole. The main metaphor of a Fregoli delusion well-represents a kind
of mid-life crisis, but it also loses quite a bit in flattening out the
mid-life crisis into a general alienation (granted, with a mix of older
existentialism issues, and newer ones such as 'personhood as
illusory'). In a short film, this bare-bones metaphor would have enough
of a poetic quality to work. But here, when the story is stretched out,
we are constantly reminded of the lack of particulars. And at some
point, not telling us more about the main character and his problems is
just coy or frigid on Kaufman's part.

I should note that I have no problem with the main character being
unsympathetic, nor the attempt at exploring the humdrum side of life in
many scenes, nor the film's plot/conclusions being
flat/troubling/puzzling, nor scenes that aren't always "entertaining".
But those scenes have to do something besides show you that dull
dialogue imitates dull talk in life. And if Kaufman was interested in
tone/lyricism, theme, and irony OVER human particulars (and therefore
other things that art can do), he was obliged to take careful,
un-self-indulgent account of what the story could sustain. For the
second film in a row, he hasn't.

I see why, on the the business side, this CAN'T be a $3M short when you
can make a $10M feature instead. But this has no bearing on whether the
feature has problems. And I understand why a lack of human particulars
is fitting for puppets (and how from an ironic, existentialist and
behaviorist point-of-view, we might be more puppets than we care to
admit), but a few modern ideas don't automatically make 90 minutes
worth of story.
<|_=00=_|>
"Anomalisa" is in my opinion one of this year's most important films.
The film centres on Michael Stone, a depressed customer service guru
who struggles to connect with others, finally meeting someone he can
truly connect with - a woman named Lisa.

Anyone familiar with Kaufman's work knows that he has a tendency to
write incredibly deep and complex stories embedded with a plethora of
themes. "Anomalisa" might just be the one exception (or anomaly) to
that fact. The story is surprisingly simple; most of it takes place
over the course of 24 hours. The messages behind it, fortunately, will
still require multiple viewings and further analysis in order to be
fully grasped. The final synthesis is elegantly woven to near
perfection and is at times humorous and even thrilling. Running at only
90 minutes, the film never feels slow nor bloated. I believe
"Anomalisa" is a good starting point for those just starting to get
into Kaufman's filmography.

The stop-motion animation is some of the best that I have ever seen on
the big screen. For a project that was funded on Kickstarter, I have to
say that the quality of the animation is the equivalent to what you
would see in an Aardman Animations or Laika production - if not better.
There were certain shots that made me stop and really appreciate the
efforts that the team went through just to make all of their
characters' movements flow realistically. Kudos to them!

The reasons why I think "Anomalisa" is one of this year's most
important films not only have to do with the way the film was financed
and produced, but that it also opens up a dialogue on isolation and
social disillusionment - they are usually seen as flaws inherent only
within the individual, despite the fact that everyone plays some part
in furthering it.

"Anomalisa" is a true work of art on many levels. It is a simple story
that touches on a wide range of emotions, riddled with the complexities
of our perceptions on relationships. Do not be surprised if this film
makes you laugh more than cry. Do not be surprised if this film makes
you cry more than laugh - for that is the true beauty of this anomaly
of a film.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a small film  by which I mean it's not a great one. This is,
of course, in contrast to all the critical praise which has been heaped
on it. The word "masterpiece" has featured in many reviews, but I can't
agree. I'd stress that I'm a huge Charlie Kaufman fan and my
anticipation on going to see the film was equally as big as my
disappointment after I'd done so. So what's the problem? I think it's
the smallness of the story;yes it's about alienation,yes it's clever,
yes the sex scene is achingly real and uncomfortable, but this movie
has only a few points to make  mostly about alienation and the
"otherness" of people  and while it makes them well, they don't amount
to a decent movie. Thinking about it afterwards  and puzzled by the
praise it has received and disconcerted by my own disappointment  I
realised that if this movie has been made with human actors it simply
wouldn't get the same sort of critical acclaim, in fact, it would be
deemed dull, dull, dull. The thing which lifts it out of the ordinary 
but not into the extraordinary  is the fact that it's told via
animation. I urge anyone who loves the movie to try and imagine sitting
through the same script acted by real people  it would be achingly
boring.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Seeing Charlie Kaufman's work
described as "strange", "weird" or "bizarre" makes me cringe a little
because most of his films hit my sweet spot of curiosity, insight and
expression. I easily relate to his creative vision and commentary in
films like Being John Malkovich, Adaptation, Eternal Sunshine of the
Spotless Mind, and Synecdoche, New York. His characters are always
searching for something and trying to discern the meaning of life  or
at least of their own life. This latest has Kaufman adapting his own
stage production, and collaborating with co-director Duke Johnson for
what is likely (for the vast majority of us) our most startling
existential stop-action animated puppet cinematic experience.

The unusual opening of the film is a black screen with only background
noise and voices, and the first chuckle occurred within about a minute
thanks to one of my favorite cultural references of the year: "Kojak,
not Kolchak". Slowly the screen evolves to show clouds in the sky, and
soon an airplane appears and our first peek at Michael occurs  he's a
passenger on a flight. The vast majority of the rest of the film takes
place inside the Fregoli Hotel  aptly named because Michael seems to
suffer from a twist on Fregoli Delusion (a person believes those around
him are all the same person in disguise).

We soon notice that Michael appears beaten down, even exasperated with
life. He is an author in town to give a presentation on his specialty 
Customer Service. The story continues along familiar lines of a
business traveler in the midst of a mid-life crisis, until things
change for him when he stumbles on a couple of his fans who are in town
for his presentation. One of them is Lisa, whom Michael is attracted to
thanks to her innocent energy and wonderful voice. What makes her voice
so wonderful? Well, it turns out that Michael is voiced by British
actor David Thewlis, Lisa is voiced by Jennifer Jason Leigh, and EVERY
other character in the film (male or female) is voiced by Tom Noonan.
Lisa and her voice are the anomaly that makes up the film's title 
Michael is smitten with her because her voice is not like all the
others - providing a spark of hope.

Mr. Kaufman seems intent on making us realize how easily we can slip
into a rut and simply go through the motions in life  every day and
every person being pretty much like the rest. Michael has learned to
wear his Customer Service mask  one who pretends to care about the
issues of others. It's a terrific metaphor for someone refusing to face
the responsibility for their own happiness. His awakening occurs at the
hands (and in bed) with Lisa. Yes, you should be prepared for the
uncommon and slightly unsettling site of Puppet Private Parts. The
clumsy passion of the first encounter between Michael and Lisa does
wonders for each of them  restoring her self-esteem and awakening him
from his daily slumber of hopelessness.

While the story itself is quite simple, the use of puppets prevents us
from getting overly personal or judgmental with the characters, and
forces us to deal with the emotional and mental aspects of what keeps
so many from leading happy lives. Lisa's acapella version of "Girls
Just Want to Have Fun" ignites the fuse in Michael, and just like that,
both he and Lisa are jolted from their own self-imposed limitations. No
longer able to just go through the motions, Michael's overreactions at
breakfast and during his presentation are all part of his re-awakening
 the most profound puppet awakening since Pinocchio. Perhaps Mr.
Kaufman thought we might be more receptive to his message and
observations if delivered by a non-threatening puppet, and perhaps he's
correct. The message is delivered loudly and clearly  though I will
probably hear Tom Noonan's voice in my nightmares. The look of the
movie and the puppets is fantastic, and Carter Burwell provides yet
another spot-on score.
<|_=00=_|>
Reviewed by: Dare Devil Kid (DDK)

Rating: 2.5/5 stars

'm a bit mystified by the accolades of "masterpiece" that are being
heaped upon "Anomalisa", a stop-motion animation drama co-directed by
Charlie Kaufman and Duke Johnson. It's a unique film, no doubt, and one
that takes a lot of risks and has a number of scenes that work quite
beautifully. It has the mordant, awkward bits of humor and wry
observation we have come to expect from Kaufman, but not the insight;
it's all surface, which is inadvertently personified by the artifice of
the stop-motion animation. The film is supposed to tell us something
about human relationships and the conflict between our ideals and our
reality, but it's all muddled, which is what makes its near universal
praise by critics so bewildering. Kaufman has certainly earned his
share of deserved praise for his inimitable, boundary-pushing
screenplays for Spike Jonze's "Being John Malkovich" and "Adaptation",
and Michel Gondry's "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind". But, he's
also hit a few critical bumps along the way, including an earlier
collaboration with Gondry, "Human Nature", and his directorial debut,
the unmitigated mess "Synecdoche, New York". "Anomalisa", while not
quite like the latter, isn't also anywhere near to the quality of the
former.

The majority of the film takes place in a nondescript upscale hotel in
Cincinnati, where Michael Stone (voiced by David Thewlis), a published
customer service guru on the lecture circuit, has just arrived. Though
a conventionally handsome man in his early 50s who is clearly
successful professionally and financially, Michael joins the ranks of
miserable Kaufman protagonists whose lives are constantly running
aground on their own ennui. Potential redemption arrives in the form of
Lisa Hesselman (Jennifer Jason Leigh), a conference attendee he meets
at the hotel and to whom he is instantly drawn. Severely lacking in
self-esteem and poignantly awkward, Lisa is not the conventional object
of male desire, but that is precisely what makes her so fascinating
(and Michael's attention so surprising to her).

The film is irrefutably a technical marvel, spectacularly illustrating
how stop-motion animation can be just as physically and emotionally
convincing as any other medium of human expression or technical
wizardry. The puppets, which were individually designed and printed
using 3D printers, are amazingly lifelike - almost, but not quite, to
the point of being uncanny. They stay just this side of the uncanny
valley, never venturing toward that precipitous drop- off where
animation that is too lifelike becomes weird.

The problems with "Anomalisa" stem from the two main characters,
starting with Michael, who is such a miserable, self-absorbed mope that
it's virtually impossible to sympathize with him. Michael's physical
mundanity belies the intensity of his narcissism, which keeps him from
connecting with anyone and ensures that he remains miserable and alone,
even when surrounded by others. Early on in the film, we become aware
that all the other characters  from a chatty cab driver, to the hotel
bellhop, to Michael's wife and son and ex-girlfriend - all have the
exact same voice (Tom Noonan's voice, to be exact). It's a clever,
albeit potentially confusing, means of conveying the sameness with
which Michael views everyone around him, which is heightened by the
fact that all the faces on the puppets playing the other characters are
oddly similar, as well. The key is the name of the name of hotel where
Michael stays: the Hotel Fregoli, a reference to the real- life, but
extremely rare Fregoli delusion, a psychological disorder in which a
person comes to believe that different people around him are actually
the same person in disguise. We aren't meant to think that Michael
actually suffers from this disorder (although he says several times
that he feels like something is wrong with him psychologically);
rather, it plays as a kind of metaphor for Michael's interpersonal
isolation, which renders everyone around him a single, undifferentiated
mass to whom he cannot connect.

Except Lisa. When he hears Lisa's voice, he recognizes her as
fundamentally distinct from all the others and immediately seeks her
out. Jennifer Jason Leigh does a fantastic job voicing Lisa, and she
makes her the most interesting character on-screen (which she is
clearly meant to be - a lovable oddball). But, the film stalls
emotionally because there is never any depth or meaning to Michael's
intense attraction to her. The film is resolutely concrete in depicting
his depressive moroseness, but then it gets all abstract when it comes
to his propensity for love, which throws everything off-balance. Thus,
even the film's most touching sequence - a rather graphic sex scene
that plays fair with the inherent awkwardness of two people who barely
know each other suddenly getting intimate - doesn't ultimately work
because it has nothing emotional to connect to except an idea. Thus, it
works in isolation, but not in concert with the rest of the film.

The fundamental problem with "Anomalisa" is that it's little more than
the story of an unsympathetic narcissist assigning his piece of mind to
a good-hearted oddball. As a romance, it doesn't work because we just
want Lisa to get away from Michael lest he drag her into his sad- sack
pit of despair. As an interpersonal cautionary tale it doesn't work
because the film's attitude toward Michael is so vague. Had it been
more clear about what we were supposed to make of his relationship with
Lisa - is it a genuine spark of compatible souls meeting at the wrong
time or is Michael just a myopic, misguided jerk with no idea of what
he wants - then "Anomalisa" might have registered as something more,
even if it were just an indictment of its protagonist. Alas, it ends up
as a stew of potentially interesting ideas brought to life with amazing
artistry that can't quite hide its hollow core.
<|_=00=_|>
Charlie Kaufmann bores the universe with an even more dull and
depressive movie experience than Synecdouche New York, his last super
depressing movie. Using animation is interesting for the first few
minutes only as any kind of plot development is slower that plate
tectonics. As soon as you realize the raison d'etre you save yourself
some time by simply watching it fast forward, stopping occasionally to
listen to the dull, half wit dialogue, but only long enough to confirm
your initial (and correct) decision that there is nothing worth listing
to, let alone remembering as worth listening to. Got it? You can save
even more time by not watching it. I only wish I had the 14 minutes I
spent watching it back, and the 3 minutes I spent on this review. DON'T
BOTHER.... <<<<<<------ IN SUMMATION
<|_=00=_|>
The latest of Charlie Kaufmann's demonstrations of the effect of
point-of-view on story-telling, Anomalisa takes its place in that
magnificent line of works beginning with Being John Malkovich, through
Adaptation, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, and Synecdoche New
York, all works of genius.

Taking its cue from a delusional condition, Kaufmann applies the point
of view of a sufferer to an otherwise banal midlife crisis and comes up
with a remarkable and completely unexpected way of presenting it to us.

Kaufmann is awesome.

As well as the terrific visuals, courtesy of co-director Duke Johnson
and his team, there is yet another bullseye from composer Carter
Burwell.

The pace of the movie is leisurely. The material feels unusually
stretched for a Kaufmann script, which may be because it apparently
started out as a 40 minute work. Really, though, it doesn't matter. I'd
rather spend a little too long with Anomalisa than five minutes with
several other films I could mention. This, after all, is an amazing
piece of art.
<|_=00=_|>
There's no other to say it: 'Anomalisa' is beyond the ordinary, its
something like you've never seen before (well, almost). Oscar-Winner
Charlie Kaufman Writes & Directs this unusual story, with sensitivity,
although the final-act turns up bland. More on that later...

'Anomalisa' Synopis: A man crippled by the Mundanity of his life
experiences something out of the ordinary.

'Anomalisa' is a story about a man stuck in monotony & depression.
Kaufman along-with Co-Director Duke Johnson, delivers a sad story about
facing repetition in life. And they begin the story beautifully & it
remains great even after its protagonist forms a relationship with a
"different soul". BUT, the final-act is a downer. The narrative falls
apart & even though Kaufman's message comes across, it doesn't leave an
impact. The open-ending also doesn't work. In short, 'Anomalisa' works
wonders, until it falls apart in its penultimate moments.

Kaufman's Writing is truly terrific in the first-hour, but as mentioned
prominently before, this story deserved a better end! Kaufman & Duke
Johnson's Direction is skilled, as the stop-motion adult animation, is
brilliantly done.

David Thewlis, Jennifer Jason Leigh & Tom Noonan deliver mesmerizing
vocal performances. Leigh, especially, is magnificent. After 'The
Hateful Eight', Leigh triumphs once again with a super act in
'Anomalisa'.

On the whole, Despite some faults, 'Anomalisa' deserves a watch for its
brave approach & its perfectly done depressing setting.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a huge Charlie Kaufman fan, and was very excited to get the chance
to see this film at the Denver Film Festival this week. However, this
film was extremely disappointing. The plot was quite boring and the
film really just seemed to be a character study of loneliness and
mental health deterioration. It would have made a great short film, but
it was entirely too long for such a low-quality plot. The ending left
me extremely unsatisfied.

However, I did enjoy the animation, sound, and other technical aspects
of the film. But I'd have to rate this 5 stars and place it next to
down there next to Schenectady, New York as one of my least favorite
Charlie Kaufman films. Apparently I prefer films he writes but does not
direct. I'm ready for another Spike Jonze collaboration!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie had potential. It started out with an interesting premise
and a few laughs. the animation was also really beautiful. However,
this film had basically no story. A third of its runtime was one long
sex scene. The main character had no arc. He was the same person at the
end of the film that he was at the start. Typically when you film
something with no story and sex it's called porn. The pacing is also
terrible and I was bored with this movie from about 10 minutes in. I
don't need to see the first world problems of this successful man with
mental issues and him preying on a young woman. I haven't even
mentioned the continuous unnecessary F-bombs. The only redeeming
quality of this film is the talented animation. I only wish the artist
didn't have to animate so many penises.
