
The Woman in Gold is based on the true story about a woman, Maria
Altmann (Helen Mirren), and her lawyer, Randol Schoenberg (Ryan
Reynolds), as they attempt to reclaim ownership of an extremely
valuable painting (along with a few more) form the Austrian government
nearly fifty years after it was stolen by the Nazis. This film has
three distinct parts that intertwine through the duration of the show.
First, there is a family dynamic that focuses on the emotional stress
of the current situation on everyone's personal lives. There is a
strong connection between Randol and Maria that grows over time and is
given time to grow in these segments. Second, there are flashbacks that
dive deeper into Maria's past and emphasize the importance of the
artwork as well as explore parallels between the past and the present.
Finally there is the trial itself, which is where the action of the
conflict lies. This is the least important, yet still necessary part of
the story. The percentage of time given to these segments would be
around 40/40/20, respectively. While you might be surprised how much of
the story takes place in the past, it really does drive the plot. There
are many white-knuckle scenes and heart wrenching moments that really
add to the film. The past is just as important as the present in this
movie, and that is exactly what the film is trying to say. Helen
Mirren, as always, was amazing in this film. She was subtle and drove
many of the scenes that required raw emotion. Ryan Reynolds was also
very good and his role in this film might have been his best
performance (from what I have seen). Actually, all of the actors did a
fantastic job here. Everyone was on there A-Game and gave it everything
they had. There was great chemistry between Mirren and Reynolds which
made their characters' connection even more compelling. Reynolds was
able to subtly change his character as the case slowly changed his
motivations. While, yes, there are a few clichéd scenes that were put
in there for emotional levity and drama, but they don't really take
much away, if anything. This was an excellent film and I highly
recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
When I review a movie, I ask myself but one question: How entertaining
is it? Of course, such a thing is always a matter of opinion and
depends on an individual's personal background, personality, tastes,
preferences, interests, experiences, and so forth. As a reviewer who
likes all kinds of movies and hopes these reviews will be helpful to
all kinds of moviegoers, I'm as objective and open-minded as I can be.
Regardless of its genre, its subject matter or its background, all I
expect from a movie is to enjoy it. This attitude allows me the freedom
to like movies of any and all kinds, regardless of whether others think
that I'm "supposed" to like them or not. Did the movie's comedy make me
laugh, did its a drama draw me in and make me care, did its thrilling
moments thrill me? Etc., etc. You get the point. I expect a film to
entertain me  to make me FEEL something. But the best movies also
inform, educate, enlighten and uplift. Oh, and bonus points for
originality, creativity, and technical and artistic excellence. When
you have the pleasure of seeing a film with all of those
characteristics, it is a "must see". It is a treasure. It is art.
"Woman in Gold" (PG-13, 1:49) is such a film.

"Woman in Gold" is based on the true story of Maria Altmann, who, as a
young woman (played by Tatiana Maslany of "Orphan Black" fame) fled her
beloved Austria as the Nazi noose was tightening around the necks of
her Jewish countrymen. Encouraged by her family and with her new
husband by her side, she left behind the people, places and possessions
she loved. One of those possessions was a Gustav Klimt painting of her
dear aunt Adele (Antje Traue), a painting which would soon be taken by
the Nazis and, after World War II, end up in a Vienna art museum where
it became so revered that one character calls it "the Mona Lisa of
Austria".

When Maria (played as an old woman by Dame Helen Mirren) loses her
sister, she discovers some letters that, along with 1990s changes in
Austrian law, make her think that she might reclaim what once belonged
to her family. She enlists the help of Randol Schoenberg (Ryan
Reynolds), a friend's son, to look into the matter for her. Randy is a
young attorney who has just started a new job and whose wife (Katie
Holmes) is concerned about the impact of a lengthy case on their
growing family, but he becomes obsessed with Maria's cause. In Austria,
Randy gains the assistance of a local journalist (Daniel Brühl), but
this long and complicated bureaucratic and legal struggle may prove to
be too much for any of them, or even all of them. If you ever start to
think that this lengthy and emotionally taxing fight is merely about
the extremely high value of the painting or even one woman's need for
closure, you'll remember Maria ending a conversation about her
motivations with "and then there's justice." "Woman in Gold" has
something for everyone. It's an unusually dramatic history lesson, a
riveting drama, an involving mystery, a fascinating legal thriller and
a touching story of families and friendships. All members of the very
talented cast bring their "A game", the writing is excellent and the
editing is superb. All these factors come together in a narrative which
transitions seamlessly between the story's present and its past, doing
so as effectively as I've ever seen it done. The opening of the movie,
a short scene involving the creation of the painting, effortlessly but
effectively communicates how special the painting of the title really
is. The film shows the plight of the Jews in Europe more personally
than any film since "Schindler's List", but without being overwrought.
It also sheds light on what it meant for a country to capitulate to the
Nazis as well as the long-term effects of that chapter in history. Many
scenes in the movie are dramatic and suspenseful, but the portion of
the film in which Maria and her husband escape Austria is on par with
the climactic scenes in Oscar-winning films like "Argo" and "The Sound
of Music". Whichever genre or cubby hole that professional critics
choose to place this movie in, it rises above most films to which it
might be compared.

Like a great painting, a great film is a joy and an honor to see for
yourself. I hope that "Woman in Gold" is remembered when all those gold
statuettes are handed out this next awards season. The worth of the
movie is, in the end, only my opinion, but this film informed me,
educated me, enlightened me, uplifted me, and, as a wonderful work of
art, it entertained me. "A+"
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. The responsibility of the filmmaker
when the project is "based on a true story" is elevated when the story
has significant historical relevance and blends such elements as art,
identity, justice and international law. Add to those the quest of a
remarkable woman whose family was ripped apart by Nazi insurgents, and
more than a history lesson, it becomes a poignant personal story.

Helen Mirren portrays Maria Altmann, the woman who emigrated to the
United States by fleeing her Austrian homeland during World War II, and
leaving behind her beloved family and all possessions. After the death
of her sister, Ms. Altmann becomes aware of the family artwork stolen
by the Nazi's during the invasion. This is not just any artwork, but
multiple pieces from famed Austrian artist Gustav Klimt  including
"Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer". See, Adele was Maria's aunt, and the
stunning piece (with gold leaf accents) has become "the Mona Lisa of
Austria", while hanging for decades in the state gallery.

The story revolves around Maria's partnering with family friend and
upstart attorney Randol Schoenberg (Ryan Reynolds) to take on the
nation of Austria and reclaim the (extremely valuable) artwork that was
seized illegally so many years ago. They are aided in their mission by
an Austrian journalist (played by Daniel Bruhl) who is fighting his own
demons. The seven-plus year legal saga is condensed for the big screen
and we follow Maria and Randol as they meet with the Austrian art
reclamation committee, a federal judge (played by the director's wife
Elizabeth McGovern), the U.S. Supreme Court (Jonathan Pryce as Chief
Justice), and finally a mediation committee back in Austria. But this
is not really a courtroom drama  it's a personal quest for justice and
search for identity. What role does family roots and history play in
determining who we are today? It's the age old question of past vs.
present, only this is seen through the eyes of a woman who has survived
what most of us can only imagine.

Director Simon Curtis (My Week with Marilyn) uses startling flashbacks
(with Tatiana Maslany as the younger Maria) to provide glimpses of
Maria's childhood through her marriage and subsequent escape. We get to
know her family, including some scenes featuring Aunt Adele (Antje
Traue), and Maria's father and uncle (Henry Goodman, Allan Corduner).
We understand this family's place in society and just how dramatically
they were impacted by the Nazi takeover.

Helen Mirren delivers yet another exceptional performance and manages
to pull off the snappy lines without an ounce of schmaltz, while also
capturing the emotional turmoil Ms. Altmann endures. Director Curtis
and writer Alexi Kaye Campbell round off some of the rough edges and
inject enough humor to prevent this from being the gut-wrenching
process it probably was in real life. This approach makes the film, the
story and the characters more relatable for most movie goers  and it's
quite an enjoyable look at a fascinating woman and a pretty remarkable
underdog story.
<|_=00=_|>
just saw WOMAN IN GOLD and i must be of an entirely different
demographic than some other reviewers, but i enjoyed it mightily. The
audience obviously did also, as there was laughter and applause at
various spots. The acting is wonderful and the story quite
straightforward but done with both heart and a sense of humor. there is
excellent use of flashback and lovely shots of Vienna. Angelenos will
get a kick out of some of the recognizable LA landmarks. I have no idea
of what the requested ten lines means, whether it is sentences or
actual lines. It's a lovely movie. Not sophisticated but informative,
entertaining and thought provoking with excellent acting from both the
principals and supporting actors.
<|_=00=_|>
Before seeing Woman in Gold, I read three to four reviews, ranging from
"ordinary" to "extraordinary movie." I was more than curious, since I
am an historian and secondary ed teacher, always looking for excellent
historical films that remind us "why" we study history. This film
presents a WWII story with superb storytelling. Woman in Gold is about
a survivor of World War II, named Maria Altmann, a Viennese who wants a
famous family painting by Gustav Klimt returned to her possession since
it was stolen by the Nazis. She enlists the help of a family friend,
who also has a WWII connection, although he is quite inexperienced for
the challenge of taking on the Austrian government. The painting of her
aunt is famous for its size, the gold leaf, and its early twentieth
century modernity. Even if you are ignorant about art history, this
"Mona Lisa" of Austria, the Woman in Gold, is recognizable to almost
everyone else. Maria Altmann's connection to this stellar painting by
Gustav Klimt is that it reminds her not only of her aunt, but the
family, friends, and life style that she lost forever when she fled
Vienna with little more than the clothes on her back. The fight she and
Randy Schoenberg, yes - grandson of Arnold Schoenberg - are about to
wage is insurmountable if you have studied recent Austrian attempts to
conceal its Nazi past. Think Kurt Waldheim. Woman in Gold is told in
two stories, one about the pursuit of justice, and the other flashbacks
before and after the Nazis occupied Vienna, showing Maria's lost life.
Edited together, you get enough background into the Holocaust to
understand Maria Altmann's motivation to seek long-awaited justice not
just for herself, but all the other people who lost everything with
little to no hope of restitution. The director, screenwriter, set
designer, and all the actors did a fabulous job of finding a balance
between humor and poignancy. Woman in Gold complements those other
wonderful WWII movies, like Downfall, Lucie Aubrac, The Pianist, by
showing that WWII history is not dead, that new chapters are being
written in the 21st century.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got home from seeing this film, and I very much enjoyed it. I've
been reading some of the negative reviews and trying to understand what
they're on about, but I just don't get it. I think it was a great film
and I'm glad I saw it. OK, maybe following all the legal machinations
gets a little dry at points, but I'm happy with this. It means that the
film makers *respect* the story. This isn't one of those atrocities
that claims to be based on history, but in fact plays so fast-and-loose
with the facts that what you are getting is almost entirely fiction
(yes, "The Imitation Game", I'm looking at *you*). While I don't know
the details of the actual history in this case, from what I'm able to
make out it seems like this film stays pretty true to the facts. I, for
one, am glad they resisted the trend of schmaltzing the thing up.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is just flawless in any category; acting, cinematography,
sound, locations, story flow. Helen Mirren is of course the star but
everybody else involved were perfect also. Telling the young woman's
life story, their hair-raising escape from Nazi occupation, and at the
same time describing the red tape involved in trying to get back stolen
family property by the Nazi's 50 years prior is just a stunning
accomplishment. But, the icing on the cake, which they could have
ignored, is how most of the population of Austria (and other European
countries) colluded with the Nazi's.

This is such an incredible movie, it should be required screening in
high schools, it should never be forgotten what happens when hate and
prejudice team up with apathy. No graphic violence is required to get
the message across - classy all the way.
<|_=00=_|>
While this is a deeply moving story, this is the first film about the
Holocaust I've ever heard of that is not intensely violent or
overwhelmingly gut-wrenching. You could take the whole family to see
Woman in Gold without being concerned in the slightest about
traumatizing even a child. The story is told in such a straightforward
way you get to feel like you are a friend of the Altman and Bloch-Bauer
family! It's that intimate! Wow! That's what I call good filmmaking! 

The next time you visit New York City I highly recommend visiting The
Neue Gallery located on Museum Mile. Seeing the Portrait of Adele
Bloch-Bauer I by Gustav Klimt in real life is quite an experience!
There's good reason why the painting is called the "Mona Lisa of
Austria." This is also a story about being a good lawyer. 

If you want to be a lawyer someday, this story will give you an idea
what a determined and intelligent lawyer can accomplish!
<|_=00=_|>
In Woman in Gold, Helen Mirren, chameleon-like, inhabits the body and
personality of Maria Altmann, niece and heir of a prominent Jewish
family in pre-WWII Vienna. The family's best-known member today is
Maria's aunt Adele, whose portrait Gustav Klimt painted in 1907. The
painting was appropriated during the Nazi era and for many years hung
in the Austrian state's famous Belvedere Gallery, as "the Mona Lisa of
Vienna." After her sister's death, Maria finds correspondence
suggesting the painting was perhaps not left to the government of
Austria in her aunt's will, as it claimed, and therefore not rightfully
Austrian property. She hires a family friend's son, Randol Schoenberg
(played by Ryan Reynolds), a young down-on-his-luck Los Angeles
attorney, to look into the matter. Schoenberg, grandson of the
composeranother refugee from Nazified Austriais out of touch with his
family's past and slow to recognize the significance of Maria's quest.
Initially unwilling to take on the case, he is gradually drawn into it.
Their bureaucratic battles with stonewalling Austrian officials soon
unite the pair, and they are joined by a crusading Austrian journalist,
Hubertus Czernin. Formidable legal and bureaucratic hurdles stand in
the way of Maria being reuniting with the painting"When you look at
this painting, you see a work of art," Marie tells a reunification
commission, "I see my aunt." The story is another in a long line of
mostly not happy stories of stolen art works in World War II, brought
to renewed public awareness by movies and books like The Monuments Men
and Pictures at an Exhibition. The opportunity to reunite beloved works
of art and their owners is rapidly disappearing, yet this beautifully
filmed movie, directed by Simon Curtis, shows the importance of
continuing these efforts. Because this film is based on a true story,
and I for one remembered how it ends, a certain inevitability about the
outcome guides the plot. Perhaps this is what has caused reviewers (not
me!) to find it dull, though they find the actors captivating. As a
result of the strong positive audience reception, the film's
distributor will greatly expand its national distribution. If you like
stories that touch on beauty, truth, and justice, you will like it,
too!
<|_=00=_|>
A WWII true story drama that deserves to be told on the screen. Helen
Mirren gives yet another astounding performance and I was pleasantly
surprised by Ryan Reynolds. What would attract audiences to WOMAN IN
GOLD is its David Vs. Goliath story, everybody loves a story about an
underdog taking on the impossible and that's what WOMAN IN GOLD
essentially is.

Directed by Simon Curtis who gave us "My Week With Marilyn" four years
ago, Helen Mirren plays an elderly Jewish woman named Maria Altmann who
sixty years after she fled Vienna, Austria to escape the Nazis, starts
her uphill legal battles to retrieve a valuable painting that was
seized by the Nazis, a painting that is now in the possession of a
museum in Austria. A young lawyer, Randy Schoenberg (Ryan Reynolds)
helps Maria in her quest that receives resistance from the Austrian
establishment. All the while her quest forces Maria to finally confront
her past WWII provides a ton of stories for cinemas to depict, they
will never run out of WWII materials, this one tackles the fact that
thousands of artwork and paintings, that were stolen by Nazis, to this
day, have never been restored to their rightful owners. Maria's story
is just one of the thousands, and I think it's fascinating that WOMAN
IN GOLD basically says that yes, sometimes we need to leave the past
where it belongs, the past, but when the past committed a great deal of
injustice on us, one can't just easily dismiss it and simply use 'the
past' as an excuse to not pursue justice. It's obvious too from Helen
Mirren's performance, Helen understands that Maria carries a certain
guilt all these years, guilt that she blames herself for abandoning her
family and abandoning their possessions. Mirren is excellent at
presenting us this tortured conflicted soul, caught between being
haunted by the past and the desperate need to forget and move on. And
Ryan Reynolds holds his ground as the young persistent lawyer. I think
people don't give Ryan enough credit because he's a heartthrob, but the
man can pass as a struggling family man with strong conviction. I think
WOMAN IN GOLD is an important film, unfortunately I doubt that it would
be remembered during award season mainly because we're still fresh from
another Weinstein Company's drama, "Philomena" a couple of years ago
which also showed an elderly woman accompanied by a young lad, both on
a crusade for the truth.

Read more at Ramascreen.Com
