
Some time ago, my local art-house theater here in Cincinnati started
showing the trailer for this movie (which now is 1 1/2 yr. old), and I
was really looking forward to seeing it. Then the trailer disappeared,
and finally this weekend the movie showed up. I figured this would not
be playing long so I went to see it right away.

"Aloft" (2014 release from Canada-Spain-France; running time: TBD)
opens with the character played by Jennifer Connelly (later we learn
her name is Nana) and her two young boys, named Ivan and Gully, trying
to catch a ride somewhere out in a remote 9and very cold) area in
Canada. They go to a mysterious gathering of what looks to be a faith
healer. Shortly thereafter we are informed "20 Years Later", where we
get to know now grown-up Ivan, married and with a young baby. One day a
Canadian journalist shows up out of the blue at Ivan's house. She
informs him she is going up into the Arctic circle to go interview his
mom and she wonders if Ivan wants to join her. At this point we're not
even 15 min. into the movie but to tell you more would spoil your
viewing experience.

Couple of comments: firsts, this movie is written and directed by
Peruvian director Claudia Llosa. She previously brought us the
outstanding movie "The Milk of Sorrow", so that, along with the
intriguing trailer, had given me high hopes for "Aloft". Alas, things
are not that simple: "Aloft" is not a straight-forward movie, and it
takes a LOT of time before I was able to piece together what the heck
was going on. Not that there is anything wrong with that, but it does
require serious paying attention to the movie. The director jumps back
and forth between the two story lines (separated by 20 years)
throughout mots of the movie. The Big Reveal comes about 75 min. into
the movie, and from then on I was very much into it. Second, Jennifer
Connelly brings an outstanding performance as Nana, not always a
likable character. Connelly is intense and emotive. Also nice work from
Cillian Murphy as the grown-up Ivan, and last but not least also kudos
to the 2 boys playing the young Ivan and Gully.

However, I have a major complaint about this release. It was listed at
the theater and also here on IMDb as having a running time of 112 min.
The version that I saw in the theater was at least 15 minutes shorter.
When I started looking into it, I read the plot summary as it's posted
on Wikipedia, and there I learned of several KEY PLOT points that were
missing entirely from the cut that I saw. As you can imagine, I am
completely disgusted with the US theatrical release and, regardless of
the ultimate quality of the movie (which is not bad, although certainly
not without challenges), I cannot recommend to anyone to see this movie
in the theater. I have no idea whether the subsequent DVD/Blu-ray
release will have the original longer version or the US shorter
version, or both. Sadly, this is not the first, not the second, nor the
third or last time this has happened to foreign movies being released
in the US.

VIEWER BEWARE!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
In the opening scenes of the brooding titled ¨Aloft¨ or ¨No Llores
Vuela¨ , a young boy carrying a falcon rushes along with his mom
(Jennifer Connelly) across a bleak , frozen stretch of road in the
Arctic , on their way to see a mysterious faith healer . She is Nana ,
a single , working-class mother desperately seeking a solution for her
youngest child Gully (Winta McGrath) , who suffers from a brain tumor ,
while also dealing with her precocious , restless older son Ivan (Zen
McGrath). Nana lives in northern Manitoba , working part-time on a farm
, where she is having an affair with her married boss and attempting to
raise her two young sons . In a last-ditch effort to save him from his
terminal illness she drags her kids to that aforementioned faith healer
(William Shimell) . Later on , us we follow a mother and her grown-up
son (Cillian Murphy) . Nana has a great strength , almost stoicism, and
she will become a renowned artist as well as healer , and he will grow
into his own as an expert falconer married to an attractive woman (Oona
Chaplin) . In the present , that puts the very meaning of life and art
into question , so that we may contemplate the possibility of living
life to its fullest , despite the uncertainties littering our paths .
Tracking a journey by a documentarian , Jannia (Mélanie Laurent ), and
her subject (Cillian Murphy) toward the North Pole . As journalist
Jannia and accomplished falconer Ivan brave punishing winds and frozen
but crackling lakes to visit his strange mother . There takes place an
encounter between the two that will bring the very meaning of their
lives into question .

This Faith-Healing drama is moody , downbeat , slowly paced , somber ,
dark and attempts to comment on humanity , or the lack of such in the
world . ¨Aloft¨ is as remote as its Arctic setting , as the story is
certainly rare but with great actors though protagonists leave us cold
. Like cheeks on a freezing day , any curiosity or interest the sparse
script engenders is puckered dry by the end , leaving behind only an
irritating numbness ; and including some ethereal , semi-supernatural
roots . The picture relies heavily on the thunderous relationship
between a troubled woman who gets reacquainted with her adult son ;
both of whom marked from a past event marred by an accident that tears
them apart . The family's tough-to-follow saga is one of abandonment
and reunion , with filmmaker as well as writer Claudia Llosa showing
both to be equally taxing in their own ways . The film holds itself at
an icy remove from its audience , rendering its characters as
impenetrable as if they were encased in ice . Nice performances from
Jennifer Connelly as a struggling mummy encounters the son she
abandoned 20 years earlier , delving her evolution to becoming a
renowned healer , Cilliam Murphy as a peculiar falconer who bears the
marks of a double absence and Mélanie Laurent as the young journalist
will bring about an encounter between the two main starring . The
freewheeling camera often stays close on the important cast , which
also includes Oona Chaplin , William Shimell and Ian Tracey .
Furthermore , a colorful , cold and evocative cinematography by Nicolas
Bolduc . Sensitive and and relaxing musical score by Michael Brook . 

This thoughtful , meditative , thought-provoking , but deceptive flick
was regularly directed by Peruvian director Claudia Llosa who
previously directed the magical realism-infused 2009 drama titled "The
Milk of Sorrow" , it told the story of a rare disease transmitted
through the breast milk of pregnant women who were abused or raped
during or soon after pregnancy . This was her first English-language
film titled "Aloft" , like her prior two features  debut "Madeinusa"
and Golden Bear-winning follow-up "The Milk Of Sorrow" , "Aloft" boasts
Llosa's magnificently lyrical eye for photography and her unassailable
slickness to originate a haunted , slightly otherworldly atmosphere
even out of banal happenings .
<|_=00=_|>
I was anxiously awaiting the release of Aloft in the US because I
really enjoy the work of the two lead actors, Jennifer Connelly and
Cillian Murphy. The film was in competition at the Berlin Film Festival
last year so, there were plenty of reviews out there for me to read
beforehand. I finally had a chance to watch it and in my opinion the
critics missed the point of this film. They were in search of obvious
plot points and cleanly presented character arcs. But, there is none of
that. It is a melancholy film to be sure. The characters are existing
in an environment lacking love, levity, hope and basic comfort
(beautifully realized by the bleak environment of the frozen wilds of
Canada.) Jennifer Connelly's character, Nana, is a single mother
raising two boys; Gully who is terminally ill and Ivan who is woefully
unloved and overlooked. Nana is not a sympathetic character in the
least. She sees her circumstances as permission to inflict whatever
poor choices she wishes on those around her and her choices run the
gamete of self-indulgent to self- destructive. When she chooses to
leave Ivan her rationalizations are flimsy and cruel and really only a
justification for her to "get out" and put herself first. Cillian
Murphy is subtly enthralling as a grown up Ivan. Raised in an
environment of very little joy Ivan progresses from an unhappy, sullen
boy into a short-tempered, hermit of a man that seethes with anger and
distrust. There are moments throughout the film that show Ivan's
vulnerability and capacity for sweetness. Like when he is training his
beloved falcon or playing with his own son. But, he is damaged and
guarded. The result of being unloved and discarded. The story is told
in two separate timelines approximately 20 years apart and flashbacks
help fill in the story of the boys before they are separated from their
mother. Details are few and the circumstances of what caused the rift
between Nana and Ivan are not fully realized until the end. I do feel
like the depiction of the characters, flawed as they are, was
realistic. Their choices were selfish, rooted in anger and hurt. But,
it is a picture of the pain of physical and emotional abandonment and
ultimately survivor's guilt. It shows that the choices that we make
profoundly affect those around us and those ripples can be felt for a
lifetime. There are no happy endings or neatly defined explanations for
why people do what they do to the people that they love, this film
depicts that ambiguity in a lovely way.
<|_=00=_|>
"Aloft" is one of those films that it is impossible to write a
synopsis. The screenplay is so messy that the viewer will probably ask
in the end of the movie what the story is about. There are heartbreak
moments, like for example when Ivan asks his little brother Gully to
jump off the truck that is sinking in a frozen lake. But the story is a
whole is a complete mess. It is also heartbreaking to see Jennifer
Connelly, Mélanie Laurent, Cillian Murphy among others wasted in such a
bad film. My vote is three.

Title (Brazil): "Marcas do Passado" ("Marks from the Past")
<|_=00=_|>
An unusual film about a healer and what it cost her to be one, set in
Canada's far north. The three adult principals are flawless. The two
child actors are flawless too. If nothing else it's worth seeing these
performances which should impress even the most hard-hearted of
critics.

The story itself is rather slight. A woman is recognized as having the
gift by another healer but her own family problems might not withstand
her acceptance of her gift. Aside from that it's about relationships
between a mother and her two sons, and perhaps also about a loving
mother trying to live mostly through her emotions.

The real value of the film is how it seems to represent a breakthrough
for all of the actors involved. Cillian Murphy, Jennifer Connelly, and
Melanie Laurent are all unforgettably good. The two McGrath brothers
are irreplaceable.
<|_=00=_|>
The acting is fine, Jennifer Connelly is always good as is Cillian
Murphy and the kid-actors were fine as well.

Visually it's also a nice looking movie, with limited colours that
creates and cold and melancholic feeling which suits the movie just
fine, because it is rather melancholic.

The movie though is just good enough not to be bad, but far from great.

Needless to say Jennifer Connelly's character is very spiritual and
believes in healing, I believe her character is supposed to be Native
American although I am not quite sure about this but a lot of her
spiritual beliefs stem from them if nothing else.

So it helps if you have some sort of interest in that or at least an
open mind because it's not always very up front and direct in it's
approach to tell the story with plenty of metaphors and subtlety more
so than direct big orchestrated dramatic scenes.

The blu-ray version (at least the one I watched could possibly differ
in some countries) is 97 minutes, and not 112 minutes like it says on
IMDb.

From what I've heard the version shown on festivals was indeed 112
minutes but it wasn't received that well so they cut it down to 97
minutes for the blu-ray/DVD market.

And although that caught me off guard initially, I'm not quite sure if
it would be able to sustain my interest for 112 minutes so this could
be one of those times where the cut down version is actually better,
although I of course can't be sure about this.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a good watch but there were so many parts that didn't make
sense. After watching the film, I came online to read what people had
to say and behold! I was right, some key parts were missing from the US
theatrical version, at least fifteen minutes of footage was left on the
cutting room floor and I feel they should have at least left in the
part where grown up Ivan (Cillian Murphy) and the journalist (Mélanie
Laurent) had an affair. It would have explained why he suddenly became
affectionate towards her (this alone changed the course of the movie
without rhyme or reason) in the final quarter of the film as well as
made the story come full circle with the issue of abandonment that
seemed to plague Ivan's lineage. The main characters were mostly
unlikable but the actors behind them were good enough in the roles to
keep you interested in what happens next. All in all it was definitely
worth the watch and not as bad as it was reviewed.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a serious and intelligent movie watcher of more than 55 years. I
look for movies that attempt to say something when selecting an indie.
After watching any movie, if it stays on my mind for days or weeks, I
count it as a worthwhile film to have watched. Aloft has been on mind
for weeks since viewing it.

I suspect that those of us with moderately wretched lives due to
personal and family tragedy are prone to be more affected by the
effort. You know, those of us who still do not have all of the answers
to life even after 60+ years on this rock and years of formal
philosophical and literary education.

I recommend that if anything in the trailer, reviews or other sources
about the movie appeals to you at all, you should watch the movie with
an open mind and make your own decision about its "worth".

Connolly and Laurent (sp?) were compelling.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a journalist, who sets up a meeting
between a young man and his mother who tragically abandoned him twenty
years ago in a cold, icy land.

I don't quit know what "Aloft" is about, because of a poor story and a
poorly presented story. The non-linear storyline does not help to clear
things up, and in fact it confuses and meddles up everything. Central
plot ideas are poorly conveyed, for example the first scene seems
completely unrelated and even irrelevant to the rest of the film.
Motives and actions of characters are poorly explained that most of the
time I don't know what they are doing. As a result I don't even know
what exactly drove the mother to abandon her son. I understand there
was a tragedy, but what exactly happened that linked the tragedy to the
abandonment, which was poorly presented that it happened already before
I realised that the scene was about abandonment.

I watched it for Jennifer Connelly, but unfortunately "Aloft" is not a
high point for Jennifer Connelly's portfolio of work.
<|_=00=_|>
i just finished watching the movie.. Didn't know anything about it
before...Didn't know what it was about about! i just knew the actors!

in the beginning i couldn't understand what it was about.. i just felt
sorrow for that pour mothers dream and hope to save her son! By the
middle of the film all my emotion when to the boy the guilt he must
have felt and the courage to say what he believed! he didn't want to
believe that his mother could heal because if she did then his brother
would have lived and the accident would have been more harmful for him!
Like a strong boy that he was ...he coped with the loss his own
way...as his mother did! who is to blame more ! i am not a mama so for
sure i would say the mother...But all this emotion the movie gave
me..it was worth the while to see the movie! Not for everyone of
course!! but if you are looking to open up your mind in a other way of
thinking..perhaps you don't understand..but i enjoyed it!! As the
ending left us sort not knowing if the girl was saved or not.. probably
both ways hurt! For me...she got saved and the boy forgave his mom and
himself for the accident! He was always strong...
