
Having grown up around housing commission areas in NSW, this film made
me laugh non-stop from beginning through to the end.

All the characters have been stereotyped to perfection, every line is
hilarious and quotable. Just the look on Shazza's face whenever she is
going off puts this film ahead of most Australian films. 

Well done to Paul Fenech, the cast and crew. You pulled off a very
funny film which should have received more marketing push / more
support from Australian audiences.

If you do a Kickstarter or Pozible for your next project, let me know
and i'll throw a $50 your way.

Thanks.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a brilliant satire tongue in cheek comedy and highlights the
many cultural diversities in Australia and superficial nature of the
social upper class. Most of this will be lost on those upper class
people and those not from Australia and in particularly Americans.
There's no big name multimillion dollar actors/actresses or explosives,
fireworks or even CGI, which Hollywood are much more comfortable with.
Instead talent is what makes this film hilarious. Great editing and is
fast paced all the way through. The acting is superb and the writing is
brilliant and totally unpredictable. Laughter from start to even past
the end credits, so make sure you watch the end credits. So grab a
pizza and a six-pack and sit back for some hilarious entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
Move over 'The Man from Snowy River', Australia now has a new
representative of the national identity: 'The Houso'.

One was the product of generations of independent-minded pioneers whose
concept of social security was riding a boundary fence armed with a
rifle; the other is a product of the Nanny State.

This is a funny movie, especially for Australians who have more than a
passing acquaintance with the housing commission areas depicted in the
film. Australian cinema has always been able to come up with outrageous
movies that offend just about everyone, however not many of them are
funny  this one is. 

The reason it works so well is that Paul Fenech, the director, writer
and star of the film, built the satire on keenly observed truths. A
unique commentator on Australian society, he delivers his insights
cloaked in humour, giving them more power than any lettered university
lecturer with access to all the demographic data and pie charts in the
world.

You don't need to know the TV series to follow this movie, it stands by
itself. The setting is Sunnyvale, 'Australia's worst suburb', with a
culture that makes the one in "Lord of the Flies" look enlightened. The
story centres on Shazza (Elle Dawe) who lives in a crowded housing
commission home with her defacto and his parents. She just wants to
have a quiet bong on the bed while someone minds the baby, but Shazza's
life is full of crises.

When her mother sends a letter asking for help, Shazza is given a van
and a fuel card by the leader of the local bikies (a perfectly cast
Angry Anderson) and heads for Alice Springs with the anarchic crew from
Sunnyvale.

Although you could spend hours analysing the things that inspired the
humour in this film, Fenech put his finger on the biggest effect the
lifestyle has on just about everyone in Sunnyvale  they are totally
reactionary  they live minute by minute, let alone day by day, and the
only forward planning that takes place is triggered by anxiety over the
next Centrelink payment.

Not all the bits of business work; it gets a bit crazy before the end,
but the laughs arrive regularly. Much is communicated visually  the
scene of the diminutive housos set against the backdrop of Sunnyvale's
most impressive structures, the jungle of electric power towers, says a
lot about their environment. The antithesis of political correctness,
the film is however non-discriminatory; everyone gets a thong slap.

Although overseas audiences would probably need subtitles for this film
 there were times when I could have used them myself  Australia's
Housing Commission program probably equates to the council estates in
the UK and 'The Projects' in the US, but I can't remember too many
comedies emanating from them  maybe there is an opportunity for Fenech
to expand his franchise.

Now that a gap in my knowledge has been closed  next time I pass the
housing commission complex in the suburb where I live, I will have far
more respect for the comic potential that exists therein.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is almost as funny as the series, though the movie feels
like the series. The movie's story basically has Shazza, who in no way,
has lowered her use of profanity, go to Alice to visit her dying mother
who left her, many years before. But funds are a bit tight. How the
moolah is scored is funny too. The scenes at the mothers house in the
dusty aired city are some of he funniest parts, while Frankie is busy
outside to trying to rile some wildlife. Some of the situations and
mischief that took off after this, with the Housos gang finding
themselves in some pretty hot water, minus Frankie, defecating a
historical monument, and worked on by some extra terrestrial forces, I
liked. Though at the start, it had me at a bit of a worry, as the
laughs rang short early, where I only found one or two things funny in
the first ten minutes, bit then it got better. With the late Turps
gone, we have narrator replacement, we're not surprised to see. I'll
give you a hint. A Hey Hey it's Saturday regular, who loves exposure
and does has the Midas touch, but not the same powerful volume or
narrative skills as Turps, which fitted the trashy series greatly.
Fenech is a comedy writing genius and has come through on this. A lot
of other side splitting shows lose a lot of their laughs and impact,
most of it, practically goes out the window. Not really the case here.
I think most Housos's fans will appeased here at the result. It's just
not as funny as the series.
<|_=00=_|>
Not since the days of Paul Hogan and "Crocodile Dundee" has a movie
captured the essence of the True Australian. This movie should be part
of the induction process when new immigrants move here , and be added
to the Tourism Board as recommended viewing material. If you want
insight as how the typical Aussie behaves, you cant get closer then
this movie. Although the characters appear stereotypical , rest assured
this is how they behave on a daily basis. The only slightly concerning
part was when the aliens beamed down , but apart from that , this movie
is more of a documentary then a movie. Bottom line if you want to
understand Australians watch this movie
<|_=00=_|>
How can people like this? I guess if you find crime, drugs, vandalism,
constant swearing and a bunch of unlikeable morons funny then please
feel free to watch this movie. The really sad thing is that there are
far too many people who are like the characters in this movie but that
does not make them funny. The movie tries to somehow turn a bunch of
bludgers terminally sponging off welfare and ensuring their kids will
continue the chain, into endearing people and at least in my opinion
just reaffirms that society is not heading in the right direction when
things like manners, honesty and respect for law are shown as things to
be despised.
