
I've only seen the first Paranormal Activity so I'm reviewing this as a
standalone movie, even though it's actually a spin off or whatever.
It's the same premise though - found-footage, teenagers, ghosts,
demons, and what have you. 

The first 30 or so minutes I was invested in the movie. I really was. I
liked the characters, I thought the filmmakers were doing something
interesting and fresh, there are some comedic bits thrown around, it
was just enjoyable to watch. Then it turns into clich√© city. Easy jump
scares, stupid mythology that isn't even explained and makes no sense,
people running around from room to room with no suspense. It's like
halfway through the movie the filmmakers were like "oh crap, this has
to be a Paranormal Activity movie. Let's just make a bunch of
supernatural crap happen to these characters we developed and wrap this
up as quickly as possible". And that's how the entire third act feels:
rushed and lazy. It basically went from being an intriguing murder
mystery to a generic possession movie.

I won't say it's terrible because I didn't hate myself watching it. It
just got really uninteresting really fast. Near the end I was just
waiting for it to be over because you know there's not going to be any
explanation or any depth to the story at that point. You just want
these stupid jump scares to stop so you can go about your life not
watching this movie. There are worse found-footage movies out there,
but The Marked Ones is definitely one you can skip over.
<|_=00=_|>
A fun movie. I love how people post how much they "hate" the Paranormal
Activity franchise yet they continue to see every new one that comes
out.

I enjoyed all of the PAs including the 5th. No they're not ground
breaking new material, but they are FUN. I don't go to movies to
criticize every little thing. I go to have fun and enjoy myself.
Although this one was a little slow to develop in the beginning the
last 20 minutes were pretty intense.

If you "hate" all the previous Paranormal Activities then save your
money and your hate-filled drivel and stay away. Nobody is forcing you
to see it. If you didn't mind the previous PAs and just want to enjoy
yourself for 2 hours then go see PA5.
<|_=00=_|>
When the news of a new entry in the series came to my attention, the
idea exhausted me; especially given the previous entries and their
deteriorating quality. Nevertheless staying true to the reason these
films are still being made, and fans of real horror, like myself
continue to watch them, Paranormal Activity: The Marked Ones, rewards
its loyal audience with a fairly sensible connection with the previous
films and characters. 

In a way, the film does show some maturity, and they seem to have
graduated from chicken feet on the floor and utensils and sheets flying
around the place...at least for the most part. Here to begin with the
lead character, Jesse was given just enough footage to get the audience
to like him. We begin to instantly empathize with his family and
friends and unlike the previous movies, none of them are extremely
annoying. The actors, all do justice to their parts, and if not
extremely strong performances, are convincing enough to keep us
watching

This entry does give the audience more action than the prequels,
however they divert themselves into satanic rituals, rather than pay
any focus to the actual demon they are to be dealing with. There are
just enough scares to justify one watch, and enough back story to make
sense of a few huge question marks the previous films leave us with. 

With the exception of these, the film has not much else to offer, and
it is best to be watched as a part of this series and not compared to
several of the other strong demonic possession films we've had in the
past few years.
<|_=00=_|>
The first PA movie was a surprise hit that made millions out of its
miniscule budget which led to several sequels that were both average
and disappointing especially the fourth one which was made so lazily
that its sole purpose was to make a quick cash-grab. 

I expected this to be another average PA film but was surprised to see
how well it was made. If you are not a fan of found-footage films which
has recently become a huge trend, then obviously this movie will do
nothing for you. The typical static camera shots of spontaneous noises
and random things moving from the previous movies are gone now which is
a good thing since there's only so much they can do with that. It takes
place in a new setting with new characters and a lot more humor is
added in this time. The protagonists were likable and not annoying and
acted competently. 

However, the good always comes with the bad but not too many. The film
does nothing new or original but it wasn't as big a problem for me
since the film was effectively made. Some of the scenes involving
Latino gangs were too stereotypical and unnecessary but other than
that, the movie didn't have too many flaws.

All I'm going to say without spoiling anything is that the last 20
minutes of the film will truly scare you with a huge twist at the end
that will obviously not be explained further until the confirmed PA 5
comes out this October. I really thought this franchise was sealing its
fate after the fourth one but The Marked Ones gives fresh opportunities
for the filmmakers to indulge in. If you are a fan of the PA films
excluding the fourth one and are unsure about whether you want to spend
money to see this film, my recommendation is go see it without a doubt.
I got my money's worth. :)
<|_=00=_|>
What I loved about the first three installments of Paranormal Activity
was that the scares were subtle and tension was built over time.
Unfortunately, the fourth and now fifth installments of the franchise
have fallen by the way of generic horror films of our day. The 4th
movie had so much potential but fell completely short, and the 5th
movie relies on all of the tried and tired possession plot lines.

You will definitely find some great "jumpy" scenes. Some you know are
coming because they managed to create the tension, but some are
completely unexpected. I also found the main characters very likable
and funny...character development did not fall short at all like it did
with the 4th film. The very best aspect of the movie is the highly
touted surprise ending, which ties up all of the loose ends of the
franchise.

I think some people are very confused by the progression of the
Katie/Kristi story so I want to explain this a bit better. The story
really begins with the prequel (PA3), showing Katie and Kristi's family
being terrorized by "Toby"...a demon with whom the girls' grandmother
has made a pact (to deliver the firstborn son of the family line). She
is the leader of a coven of witches. It continues with PA2, which
intertwines a bit with the first movie. Kristi has the firstborn son
and the demon comes after him. Trying to ease the family's strife from
the demon's presence, Kristi's husband performs a ceremony to sic the
demon on Katie instead. The original movie follows Katie's
terrorization and eventual possession. At the end of the movie we hear
Katie screaming downstairs and Micah running down to help her. Moments
later, Katie throws him bodily into the camera. Cutting back to PA2, we
see Katie leaves her house and goes to Kristi's. She kills both Kristi
and her brother-in-law (Kristi's stepdaughter Ali was on a school
trip), and steals Hunter. This is why the 4th movie doesn't make much
sense when you first view. Hunter has been adopted by a new family and
Katie moves in across the street with a random little kid who
introduces Hunter to the demon "Toby". That movie ends by the coven
repossessing Hunter and killing his adoptive family. 

I hated the 4th movie and thought that it was just filled with
potholes, until seeing The Marked Ones. Jesse's downstairs neighbor is
a part of the same coven as Katie and Kristi's grandmother, and her job
is to create an army of demon children (marked ones) who will
"activate" when they turn 18. When she dies, they investigate her
apartment and find a journal that talks about a portal to dark places.
Turns out Jesse was a "marked one", and is slowly possessed by a
demonic force. To complete the possession, however, the coven must take
him to their headquarters (Katie and Kristi's grandmother's house) and
perform a final ceremony. Having consulted Ali from PA2, his friends
know where the house is and go after him to stop the final ceremony. As
his best friend is trying to run away from a fully possessed Jesse, he
enters the portal and we find ourselves back in Micah and Katie's
house, with Katie walking down the stairs in a trance and pulling a
knife out of the kitchen drawer. The friend approaches her hoping for
help and Katie starts yelling for Micah. Micah sees the friend and goes
after him, but Katie stabs Micah instead...now we know exactly what
happened downstairs in the first movie and why. It also answers the
questions I had in the 4th movie. The random little boy living with
Katie was obviously a "marked one".

So, is it a good film for the scares? Not so much. Is it good for
understanding the franchise? ABSOLUTELY. If you're a loyal viewer, you
have to watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
At first, it seemed like the fun might be back in the Paranormal
franchise with "The Marked Ones". There's a much needed change of
environment, good comic relief and even a few decent horror images. All
of this is completely negated by the movie's utter stupidity. While the
first film was a worthy cultural phenomenon, the series is becoming a
chore. If "The Marked Ones", the first big release of the year, is a
sign of things to come, then it is going to be a LONG year. This is the
fifth "Paranormal" film, and is more of a spin-off than a sequel. It
follows Latino teenagers in California and (SURPRISE) strange things
begin to happen to them. This movie is clearly trying to hearken its
own previous films while also laying new ground, but fails on both
fronts. It tries exorcism horror¬Öand fails. It tries haunted house
horror¬Öand fails. It tries mythological horror¬Öand fails. In fact, what
made the first films so great was their simplicity; we could place our
personal fears within the story. With all of this convoluted, lazy and
stupid mythos, all relatability has been thrown out the window. Worst
of all, it's clich√©d and predictable. That's never good, but especially
for a horror film that relies on being surprising. Instead, the
creepiness is laughable, and the found footage element has become less
of a device and more of a gimmick, too often being boring instead of
scary. So while the first few films caused nightmares, this one will
just put you to sleep.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, allow me to stress that IMDb has been my reference point
for years now - with its share of ups and downs. This time however, I
felt like I need to say something, because the overall rating of this
movie is a gross understatement.

Second of all, reading this you should keep in mind that I am no
particular fan of the series. I have seen all the previous parts except
for no.4 (I think), and as much as I appreciated them, I don't wear PA
t-shirts, nor do I have PA posters hanging over my bed. This is a very
solid series, with the first part being the obvious winner, but to rant
The Marked Ones is a bit unjust. 

I saw this movie last night at a cinema (which, I believe, is
important). I won't attempt comparing it to the other films in the
franchise, but it certainly provided some awesome chills. More
importantly, there were some parts of the movie that kept me on the
edge of my seat for minutes, not just for a moment. That is, I believe,
what makes a successful horror movie. Plus I'm definitely not into
torture- porn, but there is no gore in this one, which is great. 

- The story is neither super-original nor an obvious rip-off. - The
"found footage" modus operandi works just fine throughout a movie, and
- acting is believable enough to root for the characters.

The Marked Ones does not write genre history - nor does it boast with
such ambitions. But if you're into some good chills, give it a shot.
Don't believe everything people (including critics) write. Have an
unbiased go at it and see for yourself. It's just another decent horror
flick, not Blair Witch Project.
<|_=00=_|>
The acting is quite good, that is the only reason why I am giving it 4
stars.

I love the first 3 movies they were exciting and fun. The 4th and 5th
one don't feel like the same movie. When I watched this I realized I
shouldn't have watched it because it makes me appreciate the first
three less. This sucks I loved these movies until the 4th and 5th one.
The writers are jumping around scraping for a way to draw out a movie
concept that was fine the way it was. The main two actors were great
though so don't hold it against them. But the movie wasn't scary and
had a couple okay moments but all in all not worth your $$. You pretty
much wait an hour for the movie to actually get exciting. Maybe there's
hope for the next one if they decide to make one but honestly I want to
just stick with the first three.
<|_=00=_|>
From beginning to end, it's awful, If you're watching the whole series
just stop at the 3rd. The makers of this movie should offer refunds for
putting this garbage out. It's a film just to make money from the loyal
PA fans.

I also hate film makers that think harming (or pretending to harm) dogs
or animals is any way a selling point or humorous. Get a grip, get a
life, and get some real ideas instead of living off the popularity of a
set of films.

If you're going to watch this at all, don't, just go find another movie
on the shelf.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved all the paranormal activity before. Not sure what they were
thinking when they made this. I laughed through most of the movie
because it seemed like a spoof film about horror movies. Very
disappointing. The end was confusing and involved gang-bangers with
guns, who are unsuccessful in killing off the hordes of witches. There
are some pop outs, but most of them you see coming. The friend "Hector"
was great in the movie. He was quite comical and had some funny
t-shirts but his performance isn't enough to save this stinker.

Lucky the movie is only about an hour and a half, though I felt like It
dragged on for hours. I should have guessed it was a stinker when the
audience only consisted of my party of three, and a few pre-pubescent
boys the second week it was in theaters.

Take my advice skip this movie and go to something else. If you really
must watch it. Wait until it comes out for rental on DVD, and don't
spend more than .99 to rent it.
