
Hotel Transylvania 2 is a 2015 American 3D computer animated
fantasy-comedy film. The film is the sequel to the 2012 film Hotel
Transylvania.

Hotel Transylvania 2 takes place seven years after the first film, with
the hotel now open to human guests. Mavis and Johnny have a young son
named Dennis, whose lack of any vampire abilities worries his
grandfather Dracula. When Mavis and Johnny go on a visit to Johnny's
parents, Dracula calls his friends to help him make Dennis a vampire.
However, an unexpected visit from Dracula's old-school human-hating
dad, Vlad soon turns things upside-down.

As an adult,I quite enjoyed watching this excellent movie. If you are
looking for real Comedy/Adventure movie with perfect action from start
to finish,then you should see this masterpiece movie.
<|_=00=_|>
"Hotel Transylvania" is truly an excellent family movie with all
elements of success included: good script,perfect
entertainment,wonderful direction and great comedy.

I saw it with my girlfriend after hearing this film has been achieving
international success.

Honestly "Hotel Transylvania" was extremely funny for adults and the
movie theater was crowded. People were looking for a real comedy that
would make them forget their own problems and the movie was absolutely
hilarious from the beginning till the end.

The voice acting was stunning and honestly this lovely film is worth
seeing for all ages,you will move into another fantastic world for 90
minutes.

I am not surprised at all why this movie has been number 1 in most
counties around the world.

Well Done!.
<|_=00=_|>
Just got back from seeing it in theaters, and let me tell you, there
were several moments when just the kids would laugh, and moments when
just the adults would laugh, and even moments when everybody laughed.
This is coming from a guy who doesn't watch a lot of "kid" movies, and
I can tell Adam Sandler wanted more than just kids to enjoy it, so he
threw in child-raising jokes, nipple jokes, and a few other jokes and
themes that go right over your average kid's head. And of course
there's silliness plentiful for the kiddies to enjoy. 

If you're reading reviews, you should already be familiar with the
plot, which in a nutshell for those who aren't, is basically the two
kids from the first one are older and married and have a kid, who the
grandfather, Count Dracula, hopes is a Dracula/monster like his own
bloodline, but it doesn't seem to be the case. So family relationships
are slightly strained in this movie as Dracula wonders if he'll be
helping to raise his vampire grandson, or watching his human grandson
and human son-in-law and vampire daughter move away and leaving him
behind alone in his hotel, to go live with *gasp* HUMANS. 

So on top of it being hilarious for everybody, there's a lot more to it
as well. Obviously if you're a fan of the first Hotel Transylvania,
it's a guarantee you'll enjoy this sequel. The style of animation is
exaggerated, highly sporadic, like a human gas molecule with ADHD and
an IV inserted coffee bag. There is a lot going on in almost every
scene, and with the characters behaving so hyper, it may take a couple
viewings to take in all in. The humor is quick, very in your face, but
welcoming. And trust me, humor is a-plenty. 

There are a few minor flaws; while tailored to two separate audiences,
obviously there will be moments where one side will feel out of place.
Either a child will cock their head to the side in puzzlement and maybe
laugh but only because the adults are, or an adult will think to
themselves "well that was just weird." And yes it's mostly a kid's
movie so much of everything is easy to swallow. 

Go see it, even if you don't have kids, it's a fun, easy-going flick
that's sure to make you jiggle with joy like Blobby. The characters are
fun and diverse as before, humor is constant, and for those sticklers
out there (you know who you are), the plot exists and it flows
sufficiently enough to follow, and at a reasonable pace. So bust out
your popcorn and brain juice, and enjoy this light-hearted comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, many people says this movie sucks but I think they are saying it
because Adam Sandler is in the movie but I think this is a good movie,
it's funny, is not trying to be something it is not because is not a
movie with a super message obviously no, it knows that is just funny,
the animation is beautiful, the mayority of the characters are OK but
it have some flaws and they are: it have some characters that are in
the movie just because they have to be on it but they really
unnecessary and boring characters. The opening scenes feel very
accelerated and many things pass so fast that you can't pay attention
to all of them. I would say that is as good as the first one but I
think that isn't better and they are in the same place, none is better
than the other. Well I'm going to give it an 8.2 of 10, it's a good
movie that is really enjoyable to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
It is not as good as the original. But it is still very funny. And
really shows Adam Sandler who has starred in some flops recently, still
has his charm as Dracula.

With his girl now grown up and married Mavis to human Johnny. Played
respectively by Selena Gomez and Andy Samberg. As they become parents
later on to a boy named Dennis. With curly red hair and Dracula hopes
he becomes a vampire like his grandfather.

In order to prove he is a vampire with his only child and son in law to
visit his human grandparents, Dracula and friends like Frankenstein
must take off with young Dennis, without Mavis knowing about it.

Mavis gets to discover a bit of the outside world along with doing
things that she never did like ride a bicycle or drink slur pees. Much
to Johnny's amusement.

Still it is about accepting people no matter what in their hearts. Not
just with words. There is a "cameo" with Mel Brooks as Dracula's
estranged father. 

Not as good as the first one but still fun.
<|_=00=_|>
For cartoons, Genndy Tartakovsky has had his hands in and on a lot of
peoples' favorite shows. There's something about Tartakovsky's vision
of cartoons that breathes life into every movement that is made by
them. Tartakovsky made his directorial debut with Hotel Transylvania
(2012) and although it was not universally renowned, made people found
it to be a fun family movie with a well-developed story, energetic
animation and colorful characters. Plus even though it dealt with
Halloween related characters, the idea wasn't to scare but make light
of the characters and the lore of which they originated from. Here we
are with its sequel and although it does keep several elements from the
original the same, some things have changed and other parts should have
changed. Thankfully, this sequel isn't brought down a whole lot, but it
is enough to notice the differences in what should've been focused on
more.

The story to this installment revolves around Dracula (Adam Sandler)
trying to bring out the inner vampire of his hybrid grandson Dennis
(Asher Blinkoff) brought upon by newly wedded couple/parents Mavis
(Selena Gomez) and Jonathan (Andy Samberg). The reason for this is
fearing that if their son has no vampire blood flowing in him anywhere,
Mavis would end up leaving the hotel for good. Although the premise
isn't as obvious, unfortunately the execution ends up feeling very
similar to that of the first (plot wise). Dracula claims he is more
open minded now but still clings to his past and tries to hide his true
ambitions. In some respects, this particular play out moots the point
of the first film altogether. Once Drac accepted Jonathan into his
world, he should've been prepared for what came after. It just makes it
feel like he didn't learn from before. The writing group for this entry
shrunk in size. For the first film, five writers were involved. Here
only two were, of which only one of them were from the original five.

The one from the original five was Robert Smigel, a writer for multiple
Saturday Night Live episodes. The other writer credited for this film
was Adam Sandler and unfortunately it shows too. How? Two words, potty
humor. Yes, and it sticks out like a soar thumb. Hotel Transylvania
(2012) did have some silly moments but none of the comedy required
potty humor. That's not to say all of the scenes don't work, but there
are scenes where experienced viewers will be able to point out the
scenes that Adam Sandler had wrote in. It's just not necessary. Of all
problems with this and a familiar plot, that's it. For the moments that
don't included immature humor, the rest of the comedy bits are new and
contemporary, which is having the characters play off of their own
flaws and personalities or trying to have them figure out social media.
Drac can't seem to understand that to use a touch screen, you can't
have long fingernails. He'll get it I'm sure.

There's also new character additions to the cast, which is great
although sometimes it can sink a film if it becomes over saturated. All
the original characters voiced by Adam Sandler, Selena Gomez, Andy
Samberg, Kevin James, David Spade and Steve Buscemi all sound exactly
as they should and still play off one another well. Even Keegan-Michael
Key who replaces CeeLo Green as Murray from the first film practically
sounds the same too. Some of the new voice actors to jump on board or
receive more attention are Sadie Sandler as Winnie (one of Wayne's
children), Jon Lovitz as a "phantom of the opera" type character and
the comedy guru himself, Mel Brooks playing Vlad, Dracula's father. It
really is nice to see a bunch of new and old voice actors work together
though. Plus, a star talent like Brooks isn't wasted either. His
appearance isn't as long as everyone else's roles but he comes in at
the best time.

Again since this production was headed by Tartakovsky, the animation
and character designs are nothing but great. The character designs are
all unique and have intricate texture detailing. Alan Hawkins who
worked as an animator for the first film serves a senior animation
supervisor for this entry. Considering his past work being on projects
like Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs (2009) and Arthur Christmas
(2011), Hawkins feels like a great collaborator for Tartakovsky's
vision. The film score produced by Devo member Mark Mothersbaugh
continues his usual work but again fails to provide his listeners with
an actual soundtrack for download. The score itself matches the scenes
well and portrays the right emotion but it's weird that Mothersbaugh
can provide a score for Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs (2009) or The
Lego Movie (2014) but can't for these films. Why so selective in
distribution?

It's not a huge step down from the original but it is noticeable. The
sequel does maintain all the character relations and chemistry while
adding in new ones like Drac's father voiced by Mel Brooks. It also
keeps the same great animation and music. Unfortunately although the
premise feels new, the execution is very much parallel to the first
film in some ways. Plus with Adam Sandler now active in writing the
script, some his childish annoying potty humor got in the recipe as
well and it's obvious as all get out.
<|_=00=_|>
More monster characters, more amusing moments and more exciting parties
have upgraded an additional star rating for the hotel this Halloween
season. The animation starts off immediately from where it ended
previously, progresses in a moderate pacing, filled with numerous
hilarious moments though with the usual ridiculous Adam Sandler type of
humors, it's not overly used and creates just sufficient amount of
laughter. The message about to change and to adapt in order to fit
oneself into a new environment is well simplified to cater children's
understanding while the eye popping, colorful visual effects together
with pop styles emerging into the story are well crafted to make young
adults feel like kids. Overall, the sequel is an energetic animation
compared to its predecessor, heart-warming and certainly a satisfying
family goers movie to enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard this movie was announced I did not know what to
think. The first one was entertaining, witty and brought a new spin the
old story of a dad not thinking the "slacker dude" is good enough for
his daughter. There have been many occasions where sequels either
aren't as good as the original or wear out the original concept too
much. This movie thankfully does neither of those things. From start to
finish this movie feels fresh and unrestricted by the expectations set
by the first.

If you've seen any of the previews you already know the plot.
Johnathan, the human from the first movie, and Mavis, Dracula's own
daughter, get married and have a child which they are raising in
Dracula's hotel. Count Dracula, proud of his own heritage as a monster,
wishes for his grandson becoming a vampire like himself and is
concerned when he does not show signs of being a monster. He also
wishes to raise him the traditional monster way. This of coarse begins
to clash with the human teachings from the other half of his family and
cause the conflict of the entire movie. Said conflict is whether or not
young Dennis should be raised in the hotel or in the monster-less safe
human world. Though this plot sounds like the first one remixed, I feel
it is more of a continuation as good sequels should be. 

The animation is on par if you've seen the first movie, which is not
bad. The animation of the first movie was active and full of life and
that same attention drawing quality animation is here again. Everything
in this movie flows to an unseen rhythm and nothing feels stiff or
artificial. That's not saying there aren't a few scenes that are more
dynamic then the first movie, because there is, but as a whole if you
liked the animation from the first movie you will like it here as well.

As far as the characters go everyone is as kooky as they were in the
first movie. Adam Sandler's brilliant comedic version of Dracula taking
center stage, leading the still funny renditions of classic movie
monsters. As Dracula, Sandler is just the right amount of hammy without
it being off-putting. Such a performance makes it seem as if the over
the top way movie monsters acted in our films was just the "old way" of
acting for them.

The mood and colors used in the movie are a great mix of themes. The
moody backdrops with dank dark colors fit the horror movie style the
characters in the movie originate from perfectly. Then add some bright
colors to mimic the happy comedic tone of the movie. Combining this
together you have a brilliant mix of happy and spooky that made both
the first movie and this one enjoyable for everyone. 

When it comes down to it Hotel Transylvania 2 is a heartwarming family
movie full of comedy that everyone, whether you're big or small, can
enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is most appreciated. My favorite in the movie is the Count
Dracula. There were so many creative things put in this. I honestly did
not personally like the little boy myself, whereas the Count saw so
much in him being his grandson, impressive. It was cute to see the girl
with her dad. I don't recall seeing the 1st installment. The father was
pretty cool but a little annoying. I guess no little pets in this one
save for the hundreds or whatever of the little wolf creatures. I guess
the little boy was cute in some ways, save for things like the bulbous
red curly hair. He was a little mushy for even if he is a little boy.
Anyway, most of what makes this movie what it is is the collective work
of all the artists, especially also with the storyboard sequence humor,
and the voice of Dracula.
<|_=00=_|>
Wildly funny, bursting with energy and capped off with a sweet touch of
family love 'Hotel Transylvania 2' brings it home for the audience
young and old.

Poor Dracula Adam Sandler  voice is very concerned that his grandson
Dennis Asher Blinkoff voice isn't showing any signs of becoming a
vampire. His concern deepens when he also sees the possibility that his
most beloved daughter Mavis Selena Gomez  voice may leave Hotel
Transylvania and move into the world of humans. So Dracula puts
Jonathon through a monster boot camp when his daughter and son in law
take a trip to the human world to visit the human in laws.

The entire experience turns into a giant explosive and hilarious event
of one cataclysmic disaster after another. Capping it all off is the
appearance of great granddad and devoted human hater Vlad Mel Brooks 
voice. But in the end Dennis finally shows signs that he is indeed half
human and half vampire and there is a very happy birthday celebration
that brings humans and monsters together at the Hotel Transylvania.

This is a fun movie designed mainly for children but when I watched it
I and other adults added significantly to the steady stream of solid
laughter. Kudos to Sony Pictures Animation for giving us this somewhat
silly but totally enjoyable fantasy film right when our real world
seems to be utterly overwhelmed in events and circumstance far more
scary that any that might flow form the Hotel Transylvania. Yes, it is
a great escape and very much enjoyed. Odds are it won't win an Oscar,
but take your kids to see Hotel Transylvania 2 and it will win their
hearts and yours as well.
