
When I read this on Wikidpedia I was amazed:

Critical Review The Light Between Oceans received mixed reviews from
critics. On review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an
approval rating of 59%, based on 133 reviews, with an average rating of
6.2/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "The Light Between Oceans
presents a well-acted and handsomely mounted adaptation of its
bestselling source material, but ultimately tugs on the heartstrings
too often to be effective."

This is a brilliantly acted film with some stunning scenery filmed in
New Zealand. Both Michael Fassbender and Alicia Vikander put in two
very strong performances, along with Rachel Weisz in a supporting role,
and the film completely captures the period after the First World War.
To me it seemed very much in the mode of 'The Piano' and equally as
strong in terms of its dramatic dynamics and conflicts. 

I saw this film with my wife who was equally impressed so I think it
has an appeal for both a female and male audience. Definitely should be
an Oscar contender and both actors deserve a gong for their
performances.
<|_=00=_|>
You better take a box of Kleenex with you to the screening of 
#TheLightBetweenOceans because you're going to need it, trust me. 
Heartbreaking pretty much encapsulates the entirety of this film which 
from the start aims to drive its point home on an emotional level.

Based on M.L. Stedman's best-selling novel, starring Michael 
Fassbender, Alicia Vikander, Rachel Weisz, Bryan Brown, and Jack 
Thompson, adapted and directed by Derek Cianfrance, THE LIGHT BETWEEN 
OCEANS is essentially about a lighthouse keeper and his wife living off 
the coast of Western Australia and they raise a baby they rescue from 
an adrift rowboat. But years later, the lighthouse keeper and his wife 
encounter the real mother of that baby. Should they go on with their 
lie and keep their child or do they tell the truth and risk losing her 
forever? I've never been a parent, so I don't know what it feels like, 
because I can only imagine that the fear or anxiety of the possibility 
of losing your child through any circumstance crosses the minds of 
every parent who wouldn't want such misfortune befalls them. In this 
case, it cuts even deeper because it's about miscarriage, to have that 
happen to a woman whose dream is to become a mother, it's the worst 
nightmare for her. In THE LIGHT BETWEEN OCEANS, I think Alicia Vikander 
plays that with such strong conviction and ferocity, so much so that 
even though you know her character is doing something wrong, a part of 
you wants her to get away with this act, because Vikander has made you 
feel sorrowful for what her character has gone through. It's a 
remarkable performance for a woman who won Oscar for last year's "The 
Danish Girl," you see THE LIGHT BETWEEN OCEANS and you'll immediately 
understand exactly why she deserves that statuette. And Michael 
Fassbender plays the lighthouse keeper husband with a conscience, the 
film does deal with fate, love, moral dilemmas, and how far you're 
willing to go to get your dreams realized after having previously seen 
them crushed a few times, what secrets would you keep to make those 
dreams realized and so Fassbender's moral compass keeps bugging him. 
Fassbender is so gentle and sturdy and calmed in this film.

If you've seen director Derek Cianfrance's previous films, "Blue 
Valentine" and "The Place Beyond The Pines," you'd know that Cianfrance 
is not one to shy away from couples' confrontations, it's as if he 
wants his actors to really unleash their strongest resentment possible, 
so when conflict arises between Vikander's character and Fassbender's 
character or between Vikander and Rachel Weisz's character, it's so 
real and ugly that you wouldn't want to get in the middle of it 
otherwise they might come at you as well. The cinematography for this 
film is exquisite, such a beautifully designed, beautifully shot film, 
not to mention composer Alexandre Desplat's music, his emphasis on 
piano, that makes the emotional journey of these characters all the 
more deeply affecting. THE LIGHT BETWEEN OCEANS guarantees to tug at 
the heartstrings.

-- Rama's Screen --
<|_=00=_|>
For those who were fans of the book, it was a great adaptation. It was
slow, but that was certainly true to the book.

The acting was excellent, and I loved the cast. Fassbender and Weisz
are always winners, of course - Vikander I have enjoyed in the three
movies I've seen her in. She was great when she needed to be great in
this movie - there were some very dramatic and poignant scenes, and she
pulled them off. 

I loved the cinematography  especially the scenes filmed on the island
 the constant wind! That was something which was conveyed in the book,
but it's hard to keep "constant ferocious screaming wind" in your head
while reading, because it would be awful if it were mentioned every
paragraph, yet it's easy to forget that crucial detail while reading 
the movie definitely conveyed that. Very atmospheric. 

Yes, it was on the slow side - so don't watch it while drowsy, and you
should be fine!
<|_=00=_|>
Hardly a movie is so mesmerizing to me. Hardly a movie is so gripping
and captivating for most cinema goers these days I believe. The Light
Between Oceans is one such movie! I did not expect it to be so
absorbing when I chose to watch it while having a day off. I just
thought it could be a bit boring as the story is based on a faraway
light house. But at the end I was glued in to my seat spellbound by its
infinite beauty and strength; quite pleasantly captivated by great
acting of Alicia Vikander and Michael Fassbender. Particularly Alicia
truly lives in the character and wouldn't let your mind roam anywhere
else. She makes it so real and emotional that you feel that it's you
who is inside her character. I was just thinking how lucky we are that
Alicia came to this world to make us so fulfilled with her spellbinding
acting! One of the best scenes displayed with utmost acting talent was
the scene Tom agreeing to Isabel's plea to adopt the child, keeping the
incident a secret. The facial expressions and the body language of both
Tom and Isabella are so natural and intense in those few minutes, you
could be frozen to your seat! Fassbender plays the role equally well
too, a character well displayed with his identical razor sharp eye and
intense facial expressions. He needs no extra effort to play such a
complex character as he is born with such fascinating acting talents.
Rachel Weiz does justice to her role well but I believe her character
belongs to a younger actress to match the story. You get to see great
cinematography by Arkapov in such beauty that captures spellbinding New
Zealand landscape at its best. It rhymes well with the melancholic
music by Desplat. Last but not least I had never watched a movie by
Derek Cianfrance before but he simply has done smart work by directing
this ingenious epic. 

My only disappointment is towards the end of the movie, as the final
scene building loses its momentum. When Tom is in remand the characters
begin to lose cohesiveness a bit but it sinks further when Isabel
passes away, Lucy is suddenly grown up and become a mother too, within
the next five or ten minutes. That chaotic haste really smashes the
beautiful rhythm so well built up throughout the movie. And the the age
related make-up is totally hopeless as Tom still looks the same person
even when Lucy is a mother and visits him after 25 years! However, all
in all it's an engrossing cinematic experience that brings you the
quality of film making and you will never regret watching such a great
creation!!

It is so sad that great sublime creations like this movie didn't even
get a a single nomination for Academy awards in 2016, while a synthetic
junk crap raked almost all the awards. It shows what a deep stinky
Hollywood political sinkhole the Academy has sunk in to now!
<|_=00=_|>
The Light Between Oceans starts Michael Fassbender, Alicia Vikander and
Rachel Weisz. And its the story of a couple living in a lighthouse and
in the ocean they find a baby. And that's all I am going to say since
the trailer again ruined some important plot points of the film. This
movie is very slow but is the kind of movie in which almost everything
is on point and it never goes to a route in which derails the movie, I
was pleasantly surprised! I loved this film! The cinematography is
amazing with a lot of shots of the ocean and the wind, it was truly
jaw-dropping. The acting was also great, Michael Fassbender as always
gives a brilliant performance. But the actress who surprised me a lot
is Alicia Vikander. She is fantastic as this lady who has lost a lot
and has a lot of regret. She was truly Oscar-worthy. The story was
great as it is not only about the relationship between Tom and Isabel,
but it's also about guilt, sadness, loss, etc. The ending floured me, I
absolutely loved it. The only issue I have is that Toms and Isabels
relationship is a bit rushed and with no real sense of direction, and
the beginning is kind-off slow but then it picks it right back up the
next 5 minutes. I had a great time with this film and i would recommend
it to everybody who wants to experience a heart-breaking story that is
actually realistic and authentic.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are not addicted to entertainment motion picture and you prefer
deeper meaning. This movie is in my point of view a must watch.
Metascore rated this movie 60 whilst it should be 75 minimum. Watch and
if I am wrong please tell me why.

Michael Fassbender just takes emotion to a very realistic place and
portrays a man with fear , regrets , love. The decision he makes , as a
man , we can relate to it. Alicia Vikander also takes you on a journey
that helps you understand what being a parent mean and the sacrifices
that comes along with it. 

Rachel Weisz plays her role very well and together with the two main
actors gives us some very emotional scene. I was touched by this movie
and blow away by the acting. 

Some beautiful shots are taken and really helps to get in the mood for
something different , heartbreaking , questionable . The line between
right and wrong can be difficult to see and this movie also decides not
to give you what you expect. The narrative of the story is simple and
yet very complicated once you try understand the reasons for certain
decision. Without really realising you , as an audience you start to
ask yourself , what would do , as a women , as a man. 

Questions like this scares people unfortunately , but I think we should
embrace those movies that challenges you emotionally. It is part of who
we are.
<|_=00=_|>
"She doesn't belong to us. We can't keep her." Tom (Michael Fassbender)

I was ready to witness a Nicholas Sparks imitator with The Light
Between Oceans; rather I enjoyed a whiff of Thomas Hardy. A
newly-married couple, Tom and Isabel (Alicia Vikander), living on a
remote lighthouse island off the west coast of Australia in the second
decade of the twentieth century, find a baby washed ashore in a
rowboat. The tension comes not from storms at sea but the ramifications
of their keeping the child a secret.

Notwithstanding the absurd good fortune that they find a baby after her
two miscarriages, the story becomes increasingly complex with
intersecting themes of passionate love and doing the right thing. Where
this does not become a maudlin, sentimental romance is in a few
realistic details. Most of us would question whether we would keep the
child, given that we may never have one ourselves, just as this couple
does.

Along the way, the accomplished acting throws a powerful cast over the
proceedings so that as outrageously melodramatic as it may seem, the
film relentlessly shows at each turn how conscience does indeed make
cowards of us all. Just as what he has done preys on Tom's conscience,
the needs of his wife to have a child overcome this otherwise beacon of
upright manhood and good sense.

The end of WWI brings survivors like Tom an overpowering guilt that he
survived while so many others didn't. With the presence of a child who
belongs to someone else, he is tortured by thoughts of taking a loved
one away as the war did for so many families.

Fassbender is the Oscar contender he was meant to be. His every facial
muscle works to show immense joy at his marriage and deep sorrow at his
crime. Vikander is equally convincing as a youthful bride with grit and
joy who convinces her husband, sworn to save lives in the lighthouse,
to endanger himself and her by his foolish act.

The cinematography is frequently gorgeous, and the romantic Andre
Desplat music lovely but manipulative. While writer and director Derek
Cianfrance navigates occasionally successfully through some choppy
tear-jerking scenes (the close-ups of Vikander's tears are too many),
it's still also a melodrama with too many fateful turns.

Besides, what handsome, sensitive war veteran would exile himself to a
lighthouse? Only if he knew Alicia Vikander would join him!
<|_=00=_|>
The first film I watched from director Derek Cianfrance was Blue
Valentine, which impressed me very much because it was able to
transform a trite domestic drama into a devastating exploration of the
factors contributing to the breaking off of a love between a very human
and realistic couple. His following film, The Place Beyond the Pines,
was also intense in its handling of the characters, but it didn't leave
me completely satisfied due to some problems in the screenplay. And
now, his most recent film, The Light Between Oceans, also challenges
expectations by taking a typical "prestige" movie, and bringing it an
emotional deepness which is rarely found in similar films aiming at
attracting nominations and critical acclaim; you know... the kind of
"period" films (such as The English Patient or Atonement) whose elegant
costumes and British accents attempt to make them seem better than they
are. The Light Between Oceans has a few cracks in its well structured
screenplay, but the experience ended up being quite satisfactory. The
story of The Light Between Oceans is superficially simple and not very
original; however, the gradual accumulation of complications and moral
dilemmas adds an intellectual and almost philosophical aspect which
complements the tormented romance of the lonely man who found love
late, only to see it in danger when certain circumstances interfere in
his happiness. Michael Fassbender brings another one of his full of
subtle details performances which almost eliminate the necessity of
dialogues; he transmits absolutely everything we need to know about his
character with his look and his expressions. As for Alicia Vikander, it
was very pleasant to see her in a role which takes advantage of her big
talent, after having recently seen her absolutely wasted in Jason
Bourne. So, in conclusion, The Light Between Oceans could have polished
some details in its screenplay better, but I found it a very competent
romantic drama which definitely deserves a recommendation.
<|_=00=_|>
In my review of "The Two Faces of January" I described it as a film
that "will be particularly enjoyed by older viewers who remember when
story and location were put far ahead of CGI-based special effects". In
watching this film I was again linking in my mind to that earlier
film... and that was before the lead character suddenly brought up the
two faces of Janus! For this is a good old-fashioned weepy melodrama:
leisurely, character based and guaranteed to give the tear ducts a good
old cleaning out.

It's 1918 and Michael Fassbender plays Tom Sherbourne, a damaged man
seeking solitude and reflection after four years of hell in the
trenches. As a short-term job he takes the post of lighthouse keeper on
the isolated slab of rock called Janus - sat between two oceans
(presumably as this is Western Australia, the Indian and the Southern
Oceans). The isolation of the job previously sent his predecessor off
his trolley.

En route to his workplace he is immediately attracted to headmaster's
daughter Isabel (Alicia Vikander) who practically THROWS herself at Tom
(the hussy), given that they only have snatches of a day at a time to
be together during shore leave. Tom falls for her (as a hot blooded
man, and with Vikander's performance, this is entirely believable!) and
the two marry to retire to their 'fortress of solitude' together to
raise a family and live happily ever after.... or not... For the path
of true motherhood runs not smoothly for poor Isabel, and a baby in a
drifting boat spells both joy and despair for the couple as the story
unwinds.

(I'll stop my synopsis there, since I think the trailer - and other
reviews I've read - give too much away).

While Fassbender again demonstrates what a mesmerising actor he is, the
acting kudos in this one really goes again to Vikander, who pulls out
all the stops in a role that demands fragility, naivety, resentment,
anger and despair across its course. While I don't think the film in
general will trouble the Oscars, this is a leading actress performance
that I could well see nominated. In a supporting role, with less
screen-time, is Rachel Weisz who again needs to demonstrate her acting
stripes in a demanding role. (Also a shout-out to young Florence Clery
who is wonderfully naturalistic as the 4 year old Lucy-Grace.) So this
is a film with a stellar class, but it doesn't really all gel together
satisfyingly into a stellar - or at least particularly memorable -
movie. After a slow start, director Derek Cianfrance ("The Place Beyond
the Pines") ladles on the melodrama interminably, and over a two hour
running time the word overwrought comes to mind.

The script (also by Cianfrance, from the novel by M.L.Stedman) could
have been tightened up, particularly in the first reel, and the
audience given a bit more time to reflect and absorb in the second
half.

The film is also curiously 'place-less'. I assumed this was somewhere
off Ireland until someone suddenly starting singing "Waltzing Matilda"
(badly) and random people started talking in Aussie accents: most
strange.

Cinematography by Adam Arkapaw ("Macbeth") is also frustratingly
inconsistent. The landscapes of the island, steam trains, sunsets and
the multiple boatings in between is just beautiful (assisted by a
delicate score by the great Alexandre Desplat which is well used) but
get close up (and the camera does often get VERY close up) and a lack
of 'steadicam' becomes infuriating, with faces dancing about the screen
and - in one particular scene early on - wandering off on either side
with the camera apparently unsure which one to follow! A memorable
cinema experience only for Vikander's outstanding performance. Now
where are those tissues...

(Agree? Disagree? Please visit bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical
version of the review and to comment. Thanks!)
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a married couple living in a remote
lighthouse, who finds a drifting boat in the sea with a healthy baby
and a dead man inside. They raise the baby as their own, but soon moral
challenges arise and they find themselves at an important crossroad.

I'm impressed by how beautiful "The Light Between Oceans" is. The
scenery is so beautiful that it makes me want to visit that place and
feel its serenity. The pain of the couple and their reasons for making
such a decision is well portrayed in the film, and I do feel for them
for having live with the consequences of their wrongs. The story is
really beautiful because it is a story of love, and paradoxically tells
that sometimes the right thing to do may not be the right thing to do.
It is so hard to determine what is right and what is wrong in this
situation, thereby creating a conflict which keeps the film
captivating. I'm deeply moved by both Michael Fassbender and Alicia
Vikander's performances. The film haunts me after it finishes, and I'm
still affected by it and ruminating about it.
