
Before I shatter this film, I would like to say that I do respect the
filmmakers of Hollywood (somewhat). They are creative geniuses that
have transcended the art of filmmaking time and time again. They have
continuously pushed the boundaries, especially when it comes to
bringing astounding visual effects to the big screen.

However, the art of storytelling has become lost on them. This is
primarily because conglomerates have bought out the studios. A movie is
merely a commodity to the shareholders. The question they pose
themselves before financing a movie is this: Do we already have a built
in audience for this story? If there isn't already a built in audience,
good luck getting the film financed. 

With that being said, it is clear that storytelling is the last
priority of Hollywood. Through the Looking Glass is a prime example of
this. No matter how many groundbreaking visual effects they throw on
the screen, the plot stinks. There was no suspense. Very little irony.
No interesting characters. No memorable scenes. No compelling conflict
and dynamics between the characters. The entire premise of the film was
based on Alice saving the Mad Hatter from his illness. Yet, I could
really care less. The story reflects nothing about the human condition.
It raises no intriguing questions. Not to mention that the plot itself
is aimless and disjointed. It meanders along, zipping in different
directions without a clear focus and purpose. One wonders how a script
like this even gets greenlit. 

Maybe this is what audiences have come to accept. Maybe it's our
culture that is the problem. However, I won't lay down without making
my voice heard. When the credits rolled, I personally booed the film.
My girlfriend tried to get me to shut up.

Story is a metaphor for life. Compelling characters represent something
about each of us. We relate to them on different levels. We witness the
actions they take, and say "Ah, I would've done the same." or "Wow. I
would've never done that, but I can understand why they did it." The
problem with fantasy films like this is that they are so far
disconnected from reality that they literally represent nothing. 

So I shall pose a challenge to those reading this review who have seen
or intend to see this film: watch Alice, then watch a movie like
Birdman, The Social Network, Nightcrawler, Fury, or a TV series like
Breaking Bad, then compare the two. I guarantee that you'll find
yourself much more emotionally fulfilled upon watching one of the films
I mentioned. Not all superhero/fantasy films are trash. But Through the
Looking Glass was an egregious example of all special effects, but a
junk plot.
<|_=00=_|>
I usually don't go in depth much about my thoughts on movies, and
that's because in most cases, I feel like everything there is to say
about a movie has already been said because so many people, not just
critics, are able to voice their opinions now with the advent of social
media. I also understand that it's very hard to make a movie,
especially a good one, so I generally try not to give much attention to
bad movies or waste my time and energy bashing them.

With "Alice Through the Looking Glass," though, I feel like I have to
put my opinion out there. I'm in the minority with this one in that I
loved "Wonderland" and was incredibly excited to see "Looking Glass."
Having finally seen the movie, I'm really disappointed. I feel burned.

Tim Burton directed "Alice in Wonderland" but chose not to direct this
one - in his place is James Bobin, director of the two most recent
"Muppets" films (the first of which I thought was great, the second
much less so but still fine). I think it would be unfair to put all of
the blame on him, but he's certainly responsible for some of what went
wrong here... as is screenwriter Linda Woolverton, who I almost can't
believe is the same person who wrote "Alice and Wonderland,"
"Maleficent," and the original "Beauty and the Beast." While her
previous work is whimsical but subtle and sophisticated, "Alice Through
the Looking Glass" is an uninspired mess, and I can't help but suspect
that she really didn't care about this at all.

You know, it seems like almost no one involved in making this movie
cared. Mia Wasikowska is probably the only member of the cast who
deserves any praise, and I thought she did an even better job playing
Alice here than she did in the first movie. Everyone else though,
ESPECIALLY Johnny Depp and Anne Hathaway, should be embarrassed.
Johnny's Mad Hatter was one of the best things about the first one, but
here, he's just really weird and annoying. Like, super annoying...

I don't even think the composer, the usually amazing Danny Elfman, put
forth much of an effort here. The score for "Alice in Wonderland" is
one of my favorite scores for a movie ever, but it's like for this one,
he thought he could just recycle the stuff he wrote for the first one
and that no one would notice? Well, I did, Danny. I noticed.

The visual effects and production design are pretty great, as they
should be, but you never get that sense of wonder or escapism that you
should get with a movie like this because so much of the movie is just
people standing around bantering or delivering boring exposition. The
movie is loud and sometimes frantic but rarely fun or engaging. It's a
major disappointment and a major step back from "Alice in Wonderland"
and Disney's other recent live-action fairytale adaptations. It's just
not good.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't believe any of The negative reviews. This Is a GOOD Movie! I was
amazed to see so many negative reviews about a really good movie. My
comment is about not believing comments on IMDb. There has been times
when I've read positive reviews about a movie, and the move sucked
major ass. Now I read negative reviews about a movie that was really
good from beginning to end, and it simply amazes me. That's why I've
decided to pay no attention to reviews too much and just watch the film
and make my own decision on whether its good or not. There are just too
many critics and you just can't rely on what you read. Don't get me
wrong, some of the reviews are spot on and I find myself in total
agreement with some reviews, but this movie was really awesome. I like
when a movie keeps my interest the way Alice through the looking glass
did. So for anyone looking for a nice escape from reality, don't go by
the negative reviews, give this one look. I promise you will not be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Alice Kingsleigh has spent the past three years following in her
father's footsteps and sailing the high seas. Upon her return to London
from China, she comes across a difficult decision that may determine
what she's going to do during the rest of her life. After
re-encountering Absolem, she finds a magical looking glass and returns
to the nonsensical realm of Wonderland.

Alice discovers that things are going very wrong with the Hatter, who
is now acting madder than usual, haunted by past events that he refuses
to reveal. In order to prevent a heartbreaking end to her friend, she
turns to Time himself. Despite his warnings about Alice not being able
to win a race against time, and not being able to change the past, she
borrows the Chronosphere, a time device that everyone (including the
now banished Red Queen) wants, and winds up returning to the past.

As Alice witnesses the hits and misses of friends (and enemies) during
their lives, discovering how it prompted them to their current states
in the present, she may learn how to solve not only the problem with
the Hatter, but her own back in London Â– but only if she can win the
race against the ticking Chronosphere.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed the 2010 "Alice in Wonderland" that had that unique Tim
Burton touch to it. But I wasn't in any rush to get to see the 2016
sequel "Alice: Through the Looking Glass". Why? Well, because just what
more could there be to tell about this story?

With that being said, then don't get me wrong. "Alice: Through the
Looking Glass" is not a bad movie, it just seems like a movie that
hardly was necessary to have been made. It is a good movie in itself,
and works quite well as a stand-alone, if you will.

The effects in "Alice: Through the Looking Glass" were great, as they
also were in the previous movie. And it was nice to see the beloved
characters from the first movie return, and also to see the amazing job
that the special effects team pulled off at bringing the world to life.
Lots of details, vivid colors and memorable characters.

The actors and actresses in the movie were doing good jobs with their
given roles, and it was a great treat to have the original cast return
to play their characters once again. The Time character was
interesting, but it left a less than savory taste in my mouth that they
had cast Sacha Baron Cohen for this role. He is not an actor that I am
too fond of, so in my opinion another cast would have been preferable.
I do enjoy the Mad Hatter character and Johnny Depp does a great job in
portraying him. And it was nice to get to see more of that quirky
character and get to know more of his background.

The special effects and wardrobe teams really are the ones shining in
this movie, because there are just so many wonderful things to look at
throughout the movie. And the level of creativity is just astounding.
No matter where you look there is something breathtaking.

"Alice: Through the Looking Glass" is certainly an entertaining movie,
but it is hardly one that you will sit down and watch again any time
soon.
<|_=00=_|>
First off if you are looking to be magically transported to the pages
of this beloved children's story, please prepare yourself to be sadly
disappointed. The only thing this film has to do with anything from the
book is the characters. The story is as ridiculous as the absolutely
exhausting Red Queen baby talking and The Mad Hatters stupid lispy over
acting. Both are equally annoying through the entire film. You actually
just want to shake Johnny Depp and beg him to stop. I understand film
makers taking some creative license in adapting a book to film but this
is just pathetic. I can't understand how this movie was even allowed to
be released with the title of Alice Through the Looking Glass. It made
wish there was a looking Glass that I could jump through to escape
having to finish the film, but as I was with family I had to endure it
til the end.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked the fact that the script of the movie is full of puns and
rhymes taken from the original work. This makes the movie as
interesting as the original Through the Looking Glass since Lewiss
Carroll was famous with riddles and hidden messages in his works and he
was known to include mathematical wonders in the writing such as the
case of Alice in Wonderland. Maybe the plot was not greasy enough but
overall it was a nice movie. The character that I liked most is Hatter(
Johnny Depp) who has again striken me with his ability to wear
different hats of roles and to impersonate himself in the character
he's given. Also, the character of Alice was a fit with her angelic
smile that reflects an innocent adult.
<|_=00=_|>
The Book "Through the Looking Glass," like it's predecessor, "Alice's
Adventures In Wonderland," is a charming and witty piece of nineteenth
century political satire which is based on a chess game (unlike it's
predecessor, which is based upon a card game). But like it's
predecessor, it works both as satire (for adults) and fantastic
adventure (for children). 

Both books were written for the Alice Liddle, a young girl at the time
and friend of author Lewis Carroll, a childless clergyman and
mathematician. 

The original Disney animated film combined the books much more
accurately and never went so far over the top as to lose the essential
spirit of the originals. Even the political satire was still present,
though dulled by time and overwhelmed by the magic of animation. 

However, this film and it's predecessor concentrate almost exclusively
on eye-popping visuals and fantastic everything, losing sight of the
political satire altogether. Plus, the absurd shipboard wrapper to the
basic story is totally unnecessary and misleading. Apparently, two
screenplays were mashed together in an awkward and contrived effort to
reinvent the story for today's audiences. 

Why? Obviously, to showcase the (admittedly) extraordinary computer
graphics and special effects skills Hollywood currently has at its
disposal. And give the actors another chance to dress funny, wear weird
makeup, and act crazy. The original story is fantastic, agreed, but it
is a lot more than that. Both of these new interpretations stop at the
fantastic and miss all the rest. Turn the sound off and ignore the
naval wrapper, try to forget the original books, and this film can be
enjoyed as a visual feast. It might help to get high first. Otherwise,
you may wonder if anyone was actually in charge. Maybe everyone was in
charge!

You more serious viewers, try watching Disney's animated "Alice In
Wonderland" from 1951 and Jim Henson's "Labyrinth."

In the world of traditional art, one basic rule of thumb is "Less Is
More." Here, we get, as with so many of today's special effects driven
films, "More Is Less."
<|_=00=_|>
Alice Through the Looking Glass is the sequel to Tim Burton's Alice in
Wonderland that nobody asked for, but yet here it is. We return to the
ugly world full of annoying caricatures for a second and hopefully
final time (for the sake of my sanity).

The ensemble cast fail miserably. Mia Wasikowska's enthusiasm is so
false and patronising its as if shes talking to an infant child the
whole way through the film. Sacha Baron Cohen and Johnny Depp both
suffer from stupid voice syndrome as they both speak with a lisp and an
accent that only they know what they were going for there. Helena
Bonham Carter reprises her roll as the big headed (pun intended) Queen
of Hearts, sulking her irritating little way through this 2 hour
cluster f*ck. Its hard to care about these characters when you are
simply struggling to tolerate them in the first place.

The script is garbage. It's littered with unfunny jokes, puns that are
so bad they aren't even funny and convenient exposition like "Oh no
only the return of the cronosphere can save us now." Long story short
its lazy and hard to believe someone was paid to write this piece of
sh*t. I do wonder if the dialogue in the script includes the stupid
lisps and accents because if so that just makes things worse.

The narrative is heavily flawed from the start of this 2 hour slow
motion car wreck. We spend the first 5 minutes hearing Alice go on
about nothing being impossible only for her to go against everything
she believes in another 5 minutes later. The whole series of events
that take place in this film could have been avoided if Alice had just
stood up for what she believed in and wasn't so fast to give up on her
beliefs. But the illogical narrative points don't stop there, no sir.
When the Queen of hearts takes her sister Mirana to a pretty petty
moment in their childhood, what is her plan? To bust in the door, point
and shout "LIAR" like a bitchy school girl and in doing so almost
ending the world and all of time. Also its kinda pathetic that the
explanation of why the Queen of Hearts is such an ass hole is because
one day her sister ate the last tart and blamed her for it. Seriously?
It's not even an excuse, some people are just born ass holes and the
Queen of Hearts is one of them.

BUT WAIT THERE'S MORE, the ending of the film is literally bull*t saves
the day as they straight up lost. Everything was consumed by some brown
rust like substance and Alice did not return the cronosphere in enough
time to restore time back to normality... Roll credits? Nope, have no
fear the magical synapse of time will suddenly make a connection to the
cronosphere and time is saved hooray for bs. Also if Alice literally
let go of the cronosphere before turning to rust then the balance of
time would have been restored, so yeah the ending is beyond stupid.

I could go on about the many other aspects of this film that are
terrible like the not so great sfx that the film chooses to focus on a
lot or how the sfx create an ugly world to look at and yet for some
reason the film persists with lingering on it, but I think I've made my
point abundantly clear. This is not a good movie plain and simple,
about the only thing that's good about this is hearing Alan Rickman's
voice and seeing Andrew Scott both of which last for like 2 minutes.
Stop trying to make Tim Burton Alice films happen they aren't going to
happen, and I hope now that this film has flopped in typical Johnny
Depp fashion, most likely due to his wife beating allegations, that
this is the last we shall see of Annoying Alice and the ugly
Underlandians.
<|_=00=_|>
Literally every second of this movie is worth watching ! it's even
better than the first one. I love the visual effects, maybe that's why
I loved this movie so much, I mean the nature in Underland, the time
castle, much effort was put on this movie and it was worth it . I
wasn't expecting that much of it, since I didn't expect a good story.
But the story of Time is incredible ! And those little seconds of his
are so cute, I liked the idea of the white queen not being totally good
by lying in her childhood and being part of the reason that made her
sisters' head big. I wish there were more parts for the Cheshire cat, I
love his grin :D. But, finding The Hatter's family could've taken more
light, the hatter just finds them and that's it. We should've got the
opportunity to watch more of them after they come back. Still, this
movie's became one of my favorite fantasy movies .
