
Louise Banks (Amy Adams) is a linguist who teaches at a College. One
day, twelve giant spacecrafts appear in random locations across the
world overnight. Louise's skills make her a requirement for the U.S
forces, who recruit her - and mathematician Ian Donnelly (Jeremy
Renner) - to attempt to decode and translate the language that the
creatures inside the spacecrafts are using in order to prevent a global
war. Alien invasion films have, frankly, been done to death. Arrival's
script - penned by Eric Heisserer and adapted from Ted Chiang's short
story "Story of Your Life" - is ingenious in that it finds an entirely
new angle to focus the whole thing on. Rather than start a war and
depict the bloodshed and trauma of an alien invasion, Arrival focuses
on the struggle to communicate with the creatures (dubbed "Heptapods"),
and what the aftermath of this could lead to should it not go to plan.
The whole thing is pieced together like a piece of art - the
performances, dialogue, cinematography, soundtrack, screenplay, editing
and direction all form one elegantly structured whole. It's a simply
astonishing feat of film making.

Arrival finds strength in just about everything it is comprised of. It
does this to such an extent, in fact, that it's almost impossible to
break it down into individual pieces. Amy Adams is superb here, giving
a subdued but deeply moving performance. A lot of the film rests on her
shoulders for its twists and turns to stick the landing, but she
carries it without breaking a sweat. Never given any big Oscar-esque
moments, Adams tells Louise's story in her softest moments and through
her body language. It's an astoundingly delicate performance. Renner is
also solid, and accompanies Adams nicely, even if he can't help but
feel woefully overshadowed. Louise as a character is the film's most
exciting element - a woman that uses her knowledge and skills to change
the world in ways it has never been changed before, all of which comes
down to language. When Arrival ends, you will spend hours thinking
about yourself and the language you speak and use every day. The
potential behind this story was astronomical, and it delivers in
spades.

Much like in his previous film Sicario, Villeneuve has created a
masterful aesthetic in every way. The film's soundtrack, courtesy of
the terrific Jóhann Jóhannsson, is a sublime array of thumping horn
arrangements and softer pieces. The cinematography (by Bradford Young)
is breathtaking, bringing in references and odes to other sci-fi
classics (notably 2001: A Space Oddysey) but successfully acting as a
perfect match to the tone of each sequence. The flashback sequences
focused on Louise's young daughter look and feel like forgotten
memories, while the moments inside the spacecrafts feel entirely alien.
The production design is stunning, the large pitch black objects
hovering over the cities feel instantly dark and foreboding, and the
brief sights of the creatures we're given reveal something wholly
original. In terms of technicalities and aesthetic, Arrival is a thing
of beauty - a unique, visually resplendent film that you never want to
take your eyes off of.

But where Arrival hits perfection, though? The emotion. The power
behind the story, and the direction the story takes in its tremendous
final act. This is what makes Arrival such a phenomenal film. It sets
up a story (an already thought-provoking and well paced one, at that),
and then smoothly transforms into something much bigger than you could
ever have expected it to be. Another stroke of ingeniousness is that
the film doesn't do this in one movement. Rather than drop one
bombshell and change its direction, Arrival slowly sets up a series of
events, then puts them in motion one by one, binding everything neatly
around its central character. Y'know that feeling you get when an
absolutely killer plot twist lands? Arrival will give you that feeling
for the entirety of its final act. It is, of course, entirely possible
to work out where it is headed. I did, as a matter of fact, and it just
made the whole thing feel that little bit more special. You either work
it out and watch as it comes to life before your eyes, or you
cluelessly dedicate your time to its finale and feel mesmerised at each
and every turn. Whichever you experience, it is wonderful.

Arrival is a film that feels thrilling in its own unique little way.
When it ends, and you discuss it for hours (which is inevitable),
you'll find yourself not focusing on the aliens. You'll be focusing on
the emotional power of it all, on the human side of the story. I've
deliberately left a lot out of this review, just to avoid spoiling the
direction the film takes in its final act. The power behind the
constant twists and turns is game changing; it proves that science
fiction can be, despite what the name might imply, the most human genre
to make a film about. Arrival has some stunning imagery and effects to
play around with, but instead it focuses on language and conversation.
It focuses on humanity and time and memory, and all that is worth
fighting for on this planet. It is a breathtaking achievement, and one
I already cannot wait to experience countless times again. In a year
riddled with emotionless superhero films and crude comedies, Arrival is
a godsend. Villeneuve has been on the verge of a masterpiece for the
last few years, and he has finally landed it. Arrival is a film for the
ages. Seek it out at all costs, and let it transport you across time
and space only to bring you back down to Earth, evoking a feeling you
may never have experienced before. This, people, this right here is why
I adore cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie left everybody in the cinema clueless and bored to death.

So many things in the movie make ZERO sense, just a few examples:

- The colonel expects the linguist to decipher some alien language that
sounds like gwowodkgjdkgrowlhwkas on the spot from a dicta phone.

- Most important event in humankind and all decisions are taken by some
random soldiers in the camp. President of the US or any politicians are
never shown and take no role whatsoever in the story.

- Some "rogue" soldier (god knows how) gets his hands on explosives,
avoids all controls, and expects to destroy with a few C4 charges a
huge spaceship which defies the laws of physics.

- The way they "decipher" the alien random scrabbling are just
completely arbitrary and laughable (aka there is no explanation on how
anything is deciphered) but magically after a few months they have a
full vocabulary with which they can have a conversation. In real
history many real human languages based on actual letters (not random
stains in the air) were a completely unintelligible until the Rosetta
Stone was found with a key to understand them.

- The alien presence on earth is just nonsensical. They arrive, say
that they have bought some "gift" to humanity because in 3000 years
they will need help in return (for what?) and then they disappear in
thin air without having accomplished anything.

- The attack by the Chinese general (again, no government exists, it
seems that soldier can just do what the heck the want) is stopped by
some phone call whose contents nobody bothers to explain.

- most of the movie is just going back and forth from the ship,
zzzzzzzzzz

- The physicist is practically useless. He just sits around without
giving any scientific contribution. His only role is to represent the
love interest of the linguist. He could have been a janitor for all I
know.

People saying that this is the best movie ever have probably never seen
a movie in their life or have suffered a concussion. Proof of this is
that, while we're still talking about 2001 a space odyssey after 40
years, in 3 months nobody will remember this onsensical, boring, badly
written piece of garbage.
<|_=00=_|>
The aliens have arrived. And they are  Holy Calamari People, Batman!
 giant squid. The giant squid communicate in writing by shooting
magical retractable ink out of their tentacles onto a transparent wall.
It's up to linguist Amy Adams to decipher their communication before
the other crazy countries in the world try to blow up everything.

The Calamari People, who float in a room of steam, write in circles
 which is apparently how they experience time. Without a beginning or
end. They can see their lives in their entirety. And the Calamari
People are here to give humanity a gift, we find out: Once you unlock
their language and become fluent, you will experience time in the
circular way they do. It's a lot like becoming fluent in French and
suddenly realizing why the French love Jerry Lewis so much.

From the lack of character and character development to the way the
story unfolds, the movie is like watching a real-time long shot of a
grave digger digging a grave on the grayest of all days. It's morose
and filled with dread. Monotone and monotonous. Shovel after shovel
after shovel, and he never seems like he is getting anywhere.

The entire pic is filled with "music" that is just a bunch of low hums
that underscore the dread and monotone. It doesn't give us a clue to
how we should be feeling. And that's why I go to the movies, to feel.
How about awe at seeing the spaceships? The joy and celebration of the
first breakthrough of communication? Nope, we get tedium and low bassy
hums.

Jeremy Renner plays a physicist who doesn't do any physics, and he
nicknames the two Calamari People we see Abbott & Costello. Although
you can't tell them apart, Abbott becomes my favorite character in the
movie because he gets to die midway through and doesn't have to suffer
through the rest of the film. Lucky Abbott. 

Throw in voiceovers and flashbacks that we find out are really
flashforwards because time is actually circular to Amy Adams, and you
have a film that yearns to be so much more than the real-time
gravedigging than it is. It's the type of intellectual pretentiousness
I thought only the Nolans could put on the screen.
<|_=00=_|>
This should have been brilliant!

****SPOILER ALERT*****

I love Amy Adams and think she is a great actress, and the first half
of this films is suitably spooky, fully of mystery - but as soon as she
gets in to the alien space ship and starts writing her name LOUISE, I
just shook my head. Why is it so hard for Hollywood to write a decent
script???

We spent YEARS deciding what to put on the side of the Voyager
spaceship in case any sentient life forms discovered it, and used
pictographs and hieroglyphics, but in this film the world's best
linguist (allegedly) who knows Sanskrit (so therefore must know alien
languages) just stands there and writes LOUISE in bad handwriting on a
small white board and shouts her name whist enthusiastically thumping
her chest!

That is how the English behave abroad, not how you make first contact
with an alien race.

Close Encounters of the Third Kind did this so well with sound and
colour, but here we just have a flip chart and a marker.

such a flippant regard for science makes all the rest of the film
silly. People were laughing in the cinema when Ian started saying his
name, and walking up and down 'IAN WALKS'. And then all of a sudden
Lousie can recognise the word for time travel, which is a very complex
concept, and all in the space of a few days.

Clearly the director and writer had a really great idea, and set up the
world very well, but as soon at they go to the complicated bit - how do
you actually communicate with an Alien from another planet who has no
cultural references, then they bottled it and threw in a Voice Over
from Ian, who we never quite worked out what he was there for. It's an
old film making trick - if you are stuck thrown in a voice over that
explains stuff.

They didn't even bother to try colours, or sounds, or lights, or music
- just a white board and a marker and Louise has been writing in
English, whilst round the world everyone will be writing in their own
language and confusing the poor aliens.

And if you have got Forest Whittaker the Oscar winner in your film, for
god's sake give him something to do! He has no purpose in this film,
all his lines could be cut. Just have soldiers grab Alison and fly her
to the space ship - give her the briefing in the chopper...

The director and writer should be forced to watch Close encounters of
the third kind until they appreciate how pathetic their film becomes. 

Such a shame. 8 out of ten for the first 30 minutes and 2 out of ten
for the slow fart of the rest of the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Last night I saw Arrival at TIFF and my mind was blown. This is by far
Villeneuve's biggest film he has tackled yet with so many strong
universal themes but yet also feels very emotional and intimate from
the perspective of Amy Adams's character.

Unlike Villeneuve's previous works like Prisoners and Sicario, Arrival
isn't a dark or twisted look at humanity. Instead, Villeneuve chooses
to go for a lighter yet still serious tone with the mystery surrounding
the arrival of the aliens. That is what makes Arrival so incredible.
Villeneuve injects elements from Stanley Kubrick's 2001 to make the
story not only visual stunning but also makes it very captivating.
Arrival does not rely on conflict between the humans and aliens to keep
you invested and entertained because Arrival is against that trope.
Each time our characters interact with the aliens, who remain covered
in mist for most of the screen time, we as the audience gain something
new in the form of knowledge and discovery rather then an action set
piece. And when we return back to the outside world, we see through the
media how each discovery affects it in different ways. 

The characters are one of the reasons why this film works. They are not
treated as cliché plot devices but are just real people who just want
answers to this situation. Amy Adams truly is the star of this film as
she carries this film with a sense of gravitas but also vulnerability.
She shows a woman who is at first terrified from meeting the newly
arrived aliens but gains strength when she learns more. Flashbacks to a
tragic event also reveal the struggle she goes through especially as
the fate of the world is on her shoulders. Jeremy Renner does a good
job as a physicist with a dry sense of humor. Forest Whittaker is also
great a the general who isn't a trigger-happy idiot but someone whose
job is just to get answers in order to find the safest and most humane
solution possible.

Arrival is a film that is more then just about language. It shows how
divided we are as a species as each nation and culture interprets the
alien's language in different meanings. And from this lack of clear
understanding it creates fear and paranoia that could lead to global
war. But Arrival shows that despite the mystery that surrounds the
unknown, the future can be just as hopeful and bright as it might be
scary and we should approach it with confidence.

This has proved Denise Villeneuve has range in genre as a director. I
look forward to seeing him continue his work in the sci fi genre with
Blade Runner 2.
<|_=00=_|>
To this reviewer, there are two kinds of sci fi.

The common type dates back to Buck Rogers and has more modern
iterations in Star Trek and Star Wars. Action and mayhem.

The other type, the "smart" or intellectual type, is harder to
classify. It has been around forever but appears and disappears
randomly. Consider the DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL (1951/2008) or CUBE
(1997) or the more recent MARTIAN (2015).

The second type is an oddity because most of the heavy lifting takes
place in your brain, not on the screen.

I consider ARRIVAL the best example of the "Smart" genre ever done.

These films, because they are so subjective, require a central
character that the viewer can identify with. Ms. Adams deserves special
merit for picking this film up and carrying it to the finish line.

A must see, for fans of "smart" scifi.
<|_=00=_|>
Denis Villeneuve is without a doubt an upcoming director and I can't
wait to see Blade Runner 2049. Prisoners, Sicario and now Arrival
(haven't seen Enemy yet, or some of his earlier work). Denis knows how
to capture the tension. It is almost the strongest point of all of his
films. Minimal use of computer generated images, and main focus on
story, characters, acting and thrilling scenes. Back on IMDb board, I
have noticed a lot of people calling Arrival a boring movie. So many
hypocrites these days. People trying to point out every possible flaw
to look and sound smarter while at the same time hailing far worse
movies. Calling it boring and slow while at the same time complaining
no originality in Hollywood, only giant CGI laser explosions
extravaganza. Go watch Independence Day. In Arrival there is no action,
no explosions, just some amazing acting performances combined with good
directing, editing and cinematography. There was not a single moment I
felt bored.
<|_=00=_|>
Note to self: be sure to check the default sort order for IMDb reviews.
I realize now that it was set to 'best' and combined with all the
glowing reviews and 8.5 stars I was going to enjoy my first night at
the movies since Christmas.

So very wrong.

I don't thank I'm revealing any spoilers, but just in case, i'll say it
now.

The movie is about a linguist brought in to try and communicate with
aliens that have appeared around the globe. And that's it. You would
think that if she was successful there would be huge implications and
if she was not successful there would also be huge implications. In the
end, there were no implications - she wrote a book. And the book had no
impact on the world either. The end.

This is why I'm such a happy Netflix customer. I can give the movie
half an hour to get going and when I realize that it's going to be a
stinker (aka Fury) I can stop it and move on to something else. In this
case, I was trapped in a sold out theatre. When it was done everyone
just quietly filed out. I'm pretty sure its because, like me they were
trying to figure out what the point was and how they got tricked into
watching it.

I'll give it a star though for the music score.
<|_=00=_|>
Are we alone? This question has haunted mankind since they first gazed
at the stars. "Arrival" answers this question with an abrupt no. Other
films have tackled the question of humanity being alone in the cosmos,
from classics like "The Day the Earth Stood Still" (1951) "The War of
the Worlds" (1953) "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" (1977)
"Arrival" deals with the idea of alien landings in a much different way
than traditional Sci-Fi films. While the picture focuses on creatures
from another planet, it still has the uncanny ability to question our
own humanity. 

Although "Arrival" is set up like many other Sci-Fi films with a doctor
being needed by the government to do some top secret work to save human
kind, it is not a traditional Sci-Fi film. Being Denis Villeneuve's
first leap into the Sci-Fi genre "Arrival" is a story of
self-reflection which is helped along by an alien presence. For no
particular reason 12 alien ships land all over the planet in seemingly
random locations. The only true form of communication takes place from
a single opening in the bottom of the alien vessel, where Linguist Dr.
Louise Banks (Amy Adams) is tasked at trying to open up dialog with the
visitors. Physicist Dr. Ian Donnelly (Jeremy Renner) is tasked with
finding out how the alien vessel is capable of travel through space and
how it seemingly defies gravity. The real question however remains in
not how the aliens got to earth, but why? 

What sets this film apart from others in the genre is the way that it
plays with the notion of time, love and the essence of being human.
Which is showcased in director Denis Villeneuve and writer Eric
Heisserer's effortless ability to jump from time and place. While
trying to discover what the Aliens are, and their motivation, Dr.
Louise Banks discovers what makes herself human and questions
everything held sacred to her. "Arrival" is just as much a film about
aliens landing on earth, as a film about self-discovery and the value
placed on love and loss. Dr. Banks although participating in some of
the most ground breaking work a linguist could ever be involved in, is
haunted by the tragic loss of her daughter. This coupling of discovery
and loss is reflected perfectly in the acting performance of Amy Adams
who is often torn between several emotions throughout the film. 

Just as in his previous movies "Sicario" (2015) and "Prisoners" (2013)
Denis Villeneuve employed composer Jóhann Jóhannsson who created an
eerie and often unsettling composition for "Arrival". The sound pairs
perfectly with the strange other worldly images of the aliens and their
craft, the composition adds another layer of complexity to the already
foreign and creepy world that is the alien craft. Visually the film is
fantastic with an expert play on light and dark imagery, and the very
deliberate use of color to emphasize certain characters and events.
This transfers into the shadowy and smoke filled environment inside the
alien vessel as well as the ink like Rorschach style alien writing. The
visual effects used in Arrival give a sense of other worldly presence
making the ship look as if it were a great technical feat of some
unknown civilization, yet at the same time look organic as if were
merely plucked from the surface of some far off planet. The aliens
themselves look as if acquired from a Guillermo del Toro set, they are
octopus like with long tentacle arms and gunmetal gray coloration,
which begs the question of how a creature like this could have the
dexterity to craft a sophisticated vehicle. 

The film comes together to create a package of visual, intellectual and
audible bliss. The composition of Jóhann Jóhannsson is second to none
and at times the sound plays a critical character in the film. The cast
with inclusion of Michael Stuhlbarg and Forest Whitaker (2 actors not
really know for Sci-Fi) was a welcome addition. The dynamic between Amy
Adams and Jeremy Renner seemed organic and a hallmark of great acting.
But the stand out performance was that of Amy Adams who played a truly
troubled and conflicted character.

In "Sicario" Vileneuve finished the movie with unanswered questions and
left a lot to the imagination. In "Arrival" the film ended with a
perfectly packaged ending that felt too neat and tidy. The film went
into some sophisticated ideas that dived into the essence of humanity,
yet did not give the same license for abstract thought with the
conclusion. Ultimately Arrival is not just an exploration of alien
beings, it's an exploration at what makes us human, and the positive
and negative aspects that are associated with that humanity.
<|_=00=_|>
First thing I'd like to say is this is the most over-rated movie I've
seen in 2016! I'll eschew the bandwagon and tell you the
truth.....boring, Boooooring.......unless you want to watch endless
sequences of the heroine's face "showing expression" and a seemingly
endless sequence of "swirling hair, swirling mist, swirling hair,
swirling mist...", well, you get the picture. 

This is simply yet another example of a filmmaker trying to awe us with
the CinemaScope because there's next to no story line there! 

Her co-star appears to have no purpose except to stare at her in awe,
while she stumbles around and experiences flashback after flashback of
supposedly meaningful memories? of her daughter. Oh, yeah, she's so
awe-inspiring that he can't help but fall in love with her.....gee,
didn't see THAT coming! 

I'm not bashing Amy Adams, as to spend and entire two hours pulling out
endless facial expressions of confusion and sadness, alternating first
one, then the other, surely takes great skill. 

Truthfully, the leap between her being selected to talk to the aliens
because she was simply a renowned linguist with an old pre-existing
security clearance to, "oh, yeah, actually she is the only person ON
EARTH who is clairvoyant", defies imagination. Give me a big fat break,
and start putting out movies with substance, and quit counting on "jump
on the band wagon reviews" to pump your attendance records! 

Ask anyone who attended this movie, "Would you bother to watch it
again?" I think not!
