
Speaking critically, of course this film doesn't deserve a 10. It's not
a perfect, flawless film, simple as. Nor is it "ground-breaking"
story-telling. But I'm still going to go ahead and rate it a 10
regardless. Because, quite simply, I LOVE these films to death, so I'm
incredibly biased and could never give it less. But speaking on
noncritical terms, this film is perfectly deserving of a 10 anyway
(and it certainly does not deserve lower than a 6 for those of you dull
sods out there rating as such.). It's a harmless film and isn't there
to be picked apart for every little plot failing it may have. It's
there to be enjoyed and if you let yourself, you will. It makes you
laugh, it makes you cry, it makes you reflect. It gets the point of the
film across splendidly  that life can be an adventure at any age. That
is the point of the film. It's all that you want and need it to be. 

If there's been one word I've seen affiliated most with this film, it's
the word "unnecessary". You know what, I don't think it is. Because are
all films supposed to be "necessary"? They exist as a form of escapism
and to someone somewhere, a sequel to any film is greatly welcomed, as
this film was for me. I have been waiting for this film since the day
the companion piece (as they prefer to call it) was announced, and it
was lovely and amusing and certainly did not disappoint. And if people
enjoy it, why shouldn't they make more? 

This film allows you to reunite with an incredible cast and their
charming characters, which I'm sure are what made the first film such a
hit. Evelyn and Douglas (Judi Dench and Bill Nighy) are the highlight
of the film for me and seeing their tentative romance unfold is a joy
to watch. Muriel Donnelly (Maggie Smith) also comes to the forefront of
this film, providing her expected acerbic, hilarious one-liners but
with the film also allowing you to see a softer side to her, which
comes to a particularly emotional point at the film's conclusion. Those
three were the real highlights of the film, but the rest of the cast
did just as brilliantly, especially the Indian cast who I'm glad to see
had a lot more to do this time round. Lillete Dubey was wonderful as
was Tina Desai and Seema Azmi (who I was especially glad to see
return). Although he caused quite a stir when the line-up was first
released, Richard Gere wasn't a particularly exciting addition in the
end, but that's not to say he didn't do a good job  mediocre, but
still didn't take anything away from the film. Still, it was an amazing
cast who all played their parts flawlessly, all bringing something
different to the story. I don't think anyone can really argue with
that. 

It deserves a ten because Ol Parker (screenwriter) and John Madden
(director) did a fantastic job in creating a story that could match up
(and better, in some respects) to a film they did not imagine warranted
a second. It deserves a ten because it achieves what it sets out to do:
1) provide a film to a demographic poorly provided for in the film
industry (whilst still making sure that is doesn't scare away younger
viewers). 2) It generously allows you two more hours with characters
who most certainly charmed your heart in the first. 3) It makes you
realise that yes, "life can be an adventure, at any age" and creates
that feeling to want to live by that. It deserves a ten because,
simply, take a look at the cast list. Finally, it deserves that ten
because it's a harmless addition to an already adored film and why the
hell not. For another two hours with those characters I'd happily - AND
READILY - check in to a Third Best Exotic.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really anxious to see this film since we loved the first one but,
as always with sequels, I had low expectations. I was not disappointed
in any way, shape or form. There are a lot of negative reviews by
people who don't understand the human brain. A sequel will NEVER be the
same as the first time you experienced a great film. You already know
the characters, general story, etc. and there is no room for surprises.
What you can hope for is that the journey is continued and presented in
a manner that entertains and stays true to the first film. My wife and
I discussed the film afterward and we both agreed that there were
components of "The Second" that were actually better than the first
film. We got to know most of the characters better, we got to see
Indian culture in much more depth and the story was much more involved
than the first film. Overall, I have to say that this sequel was the
best I have ever seen. It stayed true to the characters and most
importantly to the Best Exotic Marigold Hotel.
<|_=00=_|>
...but managed pretty well.

There's a terrible risk with producing a sequel to a unique, quirky and
successful movie. For want of a better cliché, it's flogging a dead
horse.

This film confronted that risk and trounced it soundly. I was wondering
how the heck the producers would manage it, and went to the cinema
expecting to be disappointed at best and mildly annoyed at worst. But
no. I left uplifted, happy and feeling as though I had wasted neither
the time nor the ticket price.

The characters continue to develop. New characters are introduced but
are generally given the chance to have their own back stories as well.
The film genuinely manages to give the impression of being a candid
look at the lives of a disparate bunch of people - their interactions,
hopes, fears, prejudices and so on are all laid bare for us, as before,
yet somehow it still manages to feel fresh.

There are real, proper laughs, some fantastic one-liners and some very
well done moments of pathos. It's beautifully filmed and the big
set-pieces are a delight.

In short it steps into the large boots of its predecessor, and fills
them nicely. Go and see it.
<|_=00=_|>
26 February 2015 Film of Choice at The Plaza Dorchester Tonight - The
Second Best Exotic Marigold Hotel. Checking into back into The Best
Exotic Marigold Hotel was like visiting old friends with a familiarity
that is both comfortable and welcoming. We are reintroduced to all the
old characters as we follow the next part of their adventure in the
home for the Elderly and Beautiful situated in Jaipur, India. You have
to smile as the effervescent enthusiasm of the totally inept Sonny
bubbles over in every single thing he does. Held together by the team
around him, Sonny finds the demands on his time pulling him in all
directions as he tries to expand his business and arrange his marriage.
The audience were laughing throughout as we bounced back and forth
between each character's story and the addition of both Tamsin Grieg
and Richard Gere were both entertaining and welcome. It was great to go
back, the film was bright in colour, humour and emotion and I must
confess I will be going back to see it at the cinema and definitely
buying the DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I took my mum to watch this as she is the same age as the characters so
identifies with them and plot. But I equally found it a positive take
on the opportunities in old age albeit in an exotic somewhat
fantastical environment. It does acknowledge the downsides of getting
old but sends the message that these will occur anyway.......but the
good stuff can still happen to those who are open to it, whatever your
age. 

Fabulous casting with every character a joy to watch and all of whom
seem to be enjoying themselves immensely. 

Some reviewers seem to be disappointed that this film isn't ground
breaking or 'gritty' enough with its plot or dialogue. But if you liked
Best Exotic Marigold, this is like catching up with old friends who
always make you smile. A gentle film told with humour and warmth.
<|_=00=_|>
Have looked forward to this sequel and was not disappointed. It was so
good to catch up with old friends (literally and metaphorically). Maybe
the storyline was more diluted as less concentrated on the 'guests' and
more on Sunni and his attempts to expand his empire and get married but
the journey that the 'guests' had started was still ongoing. For me the
film is a testament to the fact that old age need not be a slow descent
into oblivion; we can lose interest before reaching the terminus or we
can hang onto the strap handles and stick it out to the end, which is
the message in the film and I know which I prefer. I have n't yet found
my personal Best Exotic Marigold Hotel but when I do hopefully Dames
Judi & Maggie,Bill, Celia, Ronald, Diana will be my fellow travellers,
all haphazardly supervised by Sunni. To those expecting gratuitous
violence, blood and gore, gritty reality and leave the cinema feeling
life is on a downward spiral, then stay away. To those who want to
enjoy a heart warming film,rekindle faith in human nature and joy and
expectation in life, go see it and escape this miserable, violent world
we live in; go with your friend/lover/partner or alone - just go and
enjoy. I am in the age group that would qualify me as a guest but I,
like them, am still on a wonderful journey, determined to strap-hang to
the end.
<|_=00=_|>
Many cinematic releases of late have excelled at contaminating us with
dross, puerile swearing and mindless violence. Here then is an oasis of
colour in both settings and characters. The first film was a
heart-warming experience, which reacquainted viewers with what good
cinema should be about. The sequel is equally as splendid - in my
opinion, and judging by my fellow cinema-goers, by all of those
attendees to. No violence, no swearing, no lavatorial humour. Gosh,
what is the world coming to? Just dollops of old-fashioned (and I am
not ashamed of using the term), gentle humour. The film is chock-full
of some of our (British, that is) top-notch thespians and boy, do they
knock anything our Yankee brethren could conceive in a million years
into a cocked hat. Okay,Richard Gere pops up as the token 'American',
but even he is out-acted by the British and Indian cast ten times over.
For two hours of sheer entertainment, with a feel-good factor tipping
the scales, then you will be hard pushed to beat this fine example.
<|_=00=_|>
There's lots of what the fine original movie had--great scenery and
atmosphere--plus lots of exuberant dancing, and of course a great cast.
But this sequel is crippled by an apparent need to wrap EVERYTHING up;
as a result there are way too many subplots, and the movie drags-- and
eventually bores (much like the Bill Nighy-Judi Dench romance, which
ground my teeth). There's inefficient writing: the opening is a
completely unnecessary subplot with our hero and Maggie Smith going to
the US to raise money to buy a second hotel. This gives Smith an
opportunity to be Downton-ishly waspy about bad American tea, but is
really a waste of screen time. Other forgettable subplots: the old
Randy guy and his two-timing girlfriend, the return of Nighy's evil
wife (although here she's as superb a bitch as she is the perfect prig
on Downton Abbey). By far the worst has Richard Gere as a hotel
inspector who falls for the hero's bitter, bullying, sharp-tongued mom.
The writing here is criminally bad and Gere is so wooden you could
carve him into a camp stool. This is a case of what the Brits call or
used to call 'over- egging the pudding.'
<|_=00=_|>
It's never too late to love, to learn or to really LIVE your life  or
too early. That was the message of the surprise British hit "The Best
Exotic Marigold Hotel" in 2011, and that message is even more
pronounced and entertaining in the 2015 follow-up, "The Second Best
Exotic Marigold Hotel" (PG, 2:02). Now, pay attention, teenagers and
20-somethings. When I review a YA movie and it's good, I encourage
older adults to keep an open mind and give the film a chance. Now it's
the turn of all young adults reading my reviews to keep THEIR minds
open

All the original cast is back for the sequel and with a few new veteran
and younger actors joining them. The action picks up a few months after
the story in the first film ended, with the Best Exotic Marigold Hotel
doing well, and some of its mature long-term residents beginning or
contemplating new romantic relationships and even jobs in their new
hometown of Jaipur, India. But this film opens very differently than
you'd expect: Sonny Kapur (Dev Patel) is speeding down Route 66 in a
Mustang convertible with the top down  and ignoring the protestations
of his passenger (and co-manager of the hotel back in India), Mrs.
Muriel Donnelly (Maggie Smith). They're on their way to a business
meeting with Ty Burley (David Strathairn), the head of a chain of
extended-stay hotels that cater to the aged. The very polite and VERY
enthusiastic Sonny and the very direct and very proper Mrs. Donnelly
each do their part to pitch the idea of a (using a nice play on words)
2nd Best Exotic Marigold Hotel near the original. They have the
customer demand, but they need investors to help them purchase a vacant
hotel in town. Mr. Burley won't commit, but he does agree to send an
incognito inspector in the near future. Very excited and mildly
encouraged (respectively), Sonny and Mrs. Donnelly head home.

Back in Jaipur, there's much more going on with the residents and staff
of the hotel than just expansion plans. There's romance in the air (as
well as threats to romance), both for the 20-somethings and the
70-somethings and maybe one or two others in between. Sonny is working
through wedding plans with his fiancé, Sunaina (Tina Desae), but feels
threatened by old frenemy Kushal (Shazad Latif) who has been teaching
Sunaina complicated dances for the engagement party and wedding. Randy
old lothario Norman (Ronald Pickup  and, yes, ironically enough, that
is his real name) alternately bemoans and appreciates having made the
decision to be exclusive with live-in girlfriend Carol (Diana
Hardcastle), who just may have a wandering eye of her own. Meanwhile,
Madge (Celia Imrie), Norman's female equivalent in the group, is being
courted by two wealthy Indian men, but wonders if she should be looking
in still another direction for happiness. Evelyn (Judi Dench) and
Douglas (Bill Nighy) seem to want to get together, but both are afraid
to make a move  and things get even more complicated when Douglas'
wife, Jean (Penelope Wilton), shows up to finalize their divorce  and
with their daughter (Fiona Mollison) in tow.

Last, but certainly not least, Sonny is falling all over himself to
impress a new guest named Guy Chambers (Richard Gere), who Sonny is
convinced is the hotel inspector. But, much to Sonny's dismay, Guy
mainly seems interested in getting to know Sonny's widowed mother
(Lillette Dubey). (Eventually, Sonny feels compelled to set up a date
between the two, selling Guy as "so handsome, he has me urgently
questioning my own sexuality"  one of the many funny lines in the
movie  but Sonny is getting married and his mother shows no interest
in the suave stranger.) Meanwhile, Sonny is being consistently rude to
another new guest, Lavinia Beach (Tamsin Greig), who tells him she's
looking for a place for her elderly mother to live. The stress of all
this STUFF is getting to Sonny and he begins making mistake after
mistake, both in his personal relationships and in his business. But
while he's working through all that, the hotel's residents are making
mistakes of their own  and jeopardizing opportunities that may never
come again. There's a lot going on here, but not in the
too-difficult-to-follow way. More in the too-difficult-to-turn-away
way. And as these subplots unfold, the story takes more twists and
turns than a horse-drawn taxi racing through the busy streets of
Jaipur.

"The Second Best Exotic Marigold Hotel" is an excellent movie that
stands on its own merits, but is also everything that a sequel should
be. The film builds on the appeal of the original  especially the
simultaneous clashing and blending of cultures  and generations  but
still stays fresh and relevant. The story stays true to its characters,
takes their journey forward in natural and meaningful ways, and brings
in new characters and new conflicts to shake things up. The script is
creative, engaging, touching and funny. A lot of the laughs are aimed
at the ages of the hotel's residents, but they're in on the joke 
laughing with and at themselves and each other, while also saying and
showing what lives well-lived are all about. The aging characters'
everyday speech combines common doubts and struggles with wise words,
reflecting a lifetime of experience, and carrying great lessons for any
younger audience members who will make the effort to really listen. I
found myself wishing that these characters could have their own TV
series, but alas, what makes them appealing is exactly what makes my
wish impossible  they really are quite old and vibrant and wise and
fun and entirely relatable. I'll just have to do what we should all do
with the elders in our lives  enjoy them while we have them  and give
them the respect they deserve. For this group of actors and filmmakers
and their film, that's an "A".
<|_=00=_|>
The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel was a surprise hit in 2012, leveraging
the "oldies" out of their armchairs and into the cinemas in droves: the
film returned around 15 times its modest $10M budget. Now three years
later comes the sequel  the amusingly titled "Second Best Exotic
Marigold Hotel", and its much of the same again. After all, why break a
winning formula? Set eight months after the original, and with an
enviable occupancy record, expansion is on the cards for the Marigold
Hotel. Sonny (Dev Patel) and Muriel (Maggie Smith) head to San Diego in
search of investment funding from the US company Evergreen Inc, with
the view to expand the franchise into a second property and beyond.
There is interest from the owner Ty Burley (David Strathairn, probably
best known as the head of Treadstone in the Bourne films) but that
interest also brings the threat of a hotel inspector making Sonny (now
back in India) suspicious of every new face. Richard Gere's appearance
as a wannabe novelist sparks a particularly frantic burst of
sucking-up, the farce surrounding these scenes being very reminiscent
of the famous Fawlty Towers episode.

Sonny and Sunaina (Tina Desai) are to be married, and the storyline
compounds the stresses associated with the business expansion with the
stresses associated with the rituals and relationships surrounding the
nuptials. Adding fuel to the fire is the unwelcome intervention  in
both love and business  of a rich and good-looking family friend and
rival (Shazad Latif), bringing the couple's relationship to breaking
point. In a slew of secondary story lines, the rest of the ensemble
cast comprising Bill Nighy, Judi Dench, Ronald Pickup, Celia Imrie,
Diana Hardcastle (sidenote: wife of Tom Wilkinson) and Penelope Wilton
pursue love and happiness against the romantic backdrop of Jaipur.

It is hard to actively dislike this film. Like the first film, and like
similar recent films such as The Hundred Foot Journey, the esteemed
cast demands your attention from the off and the lush colours of India
(strikingly enhanced by the job of Evelyn  Judi Dench  in fabric
procurement) wrap around you and warm you like a favourite cardigan.
The script entertains, with good humour throughout and a smattering of
laugh-out-loud lines. In terms of the acting, there is nothing like a
Dame and both Dench and Smith are once again excellent, displaying
nuanced and  particularly in Smith's case  very moving performances.
Bill Nighy (after the strikingly different performance in "Pride") is
back into reliable Bill Nighy acting territory again! New to the cast
in this outing is one of my favourite comedy actresses Tamsin Greig
("Episodes") and Richard Gere, looking more silver-fox than ever.

But a particular joy for me was Ronald Pickup, celebrating 50 years in
the business (after a debut in Dr Who!) who turns in a stellar
performance as the besotted but slightly neurotic Norman Cousins.

Another star of the film is India itself. Having had the opportunity to
travel extensively, I have never been particularly drawn to India: but
this film does more for the Indian Tourist Board than a host of travel
brochures ever could. Jaipur looks breath-taking  who knew they had a
"Great Wall of China"?  and I may need to reconsider my future travel
itinerary.

John Madden ("Mrs Brown", "Shakespeare in Love") directs again, with
Thomas Newman scoring.

Any sequel will naturally be compared against its original and, whilst
good, this is no "Empire Strikes Back". The film tries to partition
itself into the different stages of the wedding preparations, but this
becomes rather forced and irritating, particularly since the whole
wedding storyline, and the mining of Sonny's jealous streak, gets a bit
tiresome. I yearned to be left alone with more time for the quieter and
more subtle love story lines permeating the rest of the film.

The script also tends to overly labour the 'you're old so you're about
to die' angle in a manner that seems at times to be rather patronising.

But in summary, if you enjoyed the original then you won't find the
sequel to be much of a disappointment.

(If you enjoyed this review, please see the multi-media version at
bob-the-movie-man.com and enter your email address to receive future
posts. Thanks.)
