
Before I continue with this review, please note that I have not read
the book, but am going to in the very near future :) Please note that
Im also a (straight) guy... not that it matters :P

Wow what can I say about this movie. From the moment the title sequence
starts, I was hooked straight away. Scene to scene this movie just
manages to suck me into this beautiful world of Hazel Grace Lancaster
and Augustus Waters. The chemistry between Shailene Woodley and Ansel
Elsort is astounding and the performances were astonishing. Honestly,
this is the best movie I have seen all year, even better than Captain
America: The Winter Soldier and Godzilla which was a massive surprise.
I just thought this was going to be another teenie love story and boy
was I wrong. I loved this movie and recommend it to everyone across all
ages. I'm rambling on and praising the movie now so I should probably
get on with the review.

The direction and cinematography was fantastic. Not a single shot felt
odd or out of place. Every shot matched the scene and felt real. The
editing was also great as shot after shot matched with the characters
faces and where they were (typical good movie editing stuff). 

The acting perhaps was one of the best aspects of this movie. Seriously
it makes the two characters feel real and alive, and at times I forgot
this was fiction and not based on a true story. Their performances were
so heartfelt and definitely Oscar worthy in my opinion. But knowing the
academy this is just another teenie love story that will not be
acknowledged at all. Hopefully I'm wrong, but thats the way it normally
is. 

This is the first movie this year that I have given a 10. I don't give
out 10's easily, but there was seriously nothing wrong with this film.
The pacing was perfect, the acting was phenomenal, the direction,
editing and cinematography was exceptional and overall, this movie is
one of the best romantic comedies that have ever touched the face of
the earth. I encourage EVERYONE to go see this movie no matter what age
you are and bring a packet of tissues as well. You'll need it.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie not having read the book and not knowing
anything more than the overall plot. I am a sucker for a good love
story, especially love that I can relate to. The pain and emotions felt
by the characters felt so real, as if I was feeling the same emotions.

Though this was THE SADDEST movie I have ever seen, it was also one of
the most beautiful, as it truly showed how exhilarating and comforting
and exciting love is. 

I probably cried throughout about half of the movie, along with the
rest of the audience. I cried to the point of heaving out loud and
needing more than the 2 tissues I came in with. Again, the actors
really expressed the emotions of the characters well and I felt that. 

I am going to see it again for sure.

GO SEE IT IF YOU LOVE EMOTIONAL MOVIES!
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. Being an avid book reader, I'm always skeptical about watching the
words of my favorite books transformed and materialized on the big
screen... but TFIOS stayed true to the book. The movie was absolutely
lovely from beginning to end. The young actors were great. The comedy
hit on all the right notes, the romance made your heart smile and the
tragedy pulled at your heart strings. It really was a wonderful
adaptation, and I believe it stayed as true to the book as possible
without many changes where there were any. The minute it was over, I
wanted to watch it again. Upon leaving the theater, I looked around and
there was not one dry eye. Not even the men. If you are a big fan of
the book, like myself... and are skeptical about whether this stays
true. Don't be. Kudos the John Green on his first film adaptation. It
was an absolute success. I'd give it a 10 out of 10 if I could... but I
don't believe in "perfect."
<|_=00=_|>
This movie, simply put, is worth each and every one of its 125 minutes.
Including the closing credits, that you need to dry your eyes and think
about what you just saw. It's the inspiring story of two young people
who are no different then all of us, as they both are in the process of
dieing. Though Hazel Grace and Augustus are more aware of this fact of
life; because their eternity" has an expiration date, set by Hazels
terminal illness: Cancer. 

As the viewer is put on an emotional roller-coaster, alongside the
feelings and attitudes towards life and love the two teens share, this
movie will be a key to many locked doors in the recepients minds. And
through these doors we are lead by an ensemble of actors who are
amazingly sensitive in their portrayal of personalities and emotions.

The writing and directing is so brilliantly executed, that you have
sympathy with every character this movie so caringly brings to (short)
life. Even when they oppose another you feel unable to take sides.
Because you find yourself sharing both. And when the credits role -
like the tears on your cheek - you realize, that these opposing views
are one and the same after all: Life.
<|_=00=_|>
I was touched by the concepts and situations on this film, being myself
a survivor of 48 chemotherapy treatments, I can somehow understand the
feelings.

Is not a pretentious film, however full of little moments that creates
a very good and convincing environment.

I like both main rolls. The story is completely credible, it can happen
any time to anyone.

It is an Ode for Life, it tell us that "We can and should have moments
of infinite joy within a limited time" It is our choice!

I liked very much this film!
<|_=00=_|>
Average American guy right here, and I dug this flick. I don't care how
many 13 year olds were in the theater with me, this movie has emotion.
After watching the Descendents, I knew Woodley was going places. She
simply delivers in this movie. I'm not going to write a long winded
review about the summary, but I will tell you about the acting.

Elgort and Woodley truly deliver. You forget they're acting each and
every scene. The chemistry between the two is palpable. Laura Dern
comes out of nowhere; I think the last time I've seen her face was JP.
She puts up a pretty good role as Woodley's torn mother. Defoe is pure
love/hate on almost a House level. In fact, he goes beyond House hatred
with his apathy in this movie. And the two's sidekick (Wolff) is loads
of comic relief, which is surprising considering that he too is in the
therapy group. The rest of the cast is just kind of there (sorry
Tramell). But that's because the camera is on Woodley and Elgort the
entire time. I don't even think there's a scene except for flashbacks
where the two are absent.

As far as the movie... An emotional roller-coaster. You will get
addicted to their relationship. You will cry big man tears internally
(and probably externally) after 1.5 hours. You will be emotionally
drained.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't really cry in movies unless they're really, really sad. And
this movie is bound to get you crying like there's no tomorrow. I
brought a box of tissues and I used about half of them. I have never
cried so much in my entire life. Being an avid fan of the book, I was
kind of scared that like some of my other favourite books, the movie
would be ruined. But no, the movie had all of the book's materials in
it (except for one thing). I never thought Shailene and Ansel would
play Hazel and Gus, but when I watched it, their performance blew me
away. I think Shailene's ability to cry got ME crying, because that's
how real it felt. It is an amazing movie, and I'm sorry to say that
it's even better than A Walk to Remember. Go see this movie, and if you
do, maybe read the book first so that you can be somewhat prepared!
<|_=00=_|>
'Some infinities are bigger than other infinities' says my favorite
quote from the movie (and the book) and its true because I am going to
love this movie for the longest of the infinity. I am a huge fan of the
book and one thing which really makes the movie stand out is an amazing
performance by Shailene Woodley. She is outstanding in every scene she
is and I have to say I am kind of in love with Hazel. Even though its a
love story of a girl who has terminal cancer I wouldn't say that the
film is tragic rather the film is about living your life to the fullest
in your 'little infinity' If you have already read the book, the film
is true to the book and the great acting, directing and music adds
another dimension to the story. The Fault In Our Stars is definitely
one of the best romantic movies ever. When you see this movie you are
going to laugh and you are going to cry and when the end credit roles I
can guarantee most of you are going to be completely in love with this
love story.
<|_=00=_|>
The reason I am rating this a 1 is to combat the insane 8.2 rating that
this terrible movie has.

I'm a 17 year old girl, and most people would assume someone my age
would fall head over heels for a movie like this. I watched expecting
to see this amazingly realistic, incomparable, and tragically beautiful
love story, which is how TFIOS had been described to me. After spending
two hours watching this movie, I'm sitting here wondering if I'm made
of stone considering I did not shed a single tear. But several movies I
have watched, and stories I have read, have left me sobbing and
attempting to recover for days. I have never read the book, or any of
John Green's books for that matter but now I will forever hold the
opinion that he is a fully grown man attempting to articulate not only
the life of a teenage girl, but the life of someone suffering with a
disease. The first few lines of the movie, narrated by Hazel, made me
know I was going to hate this movie, since she was describing things
that happened in cliché romance stories (which is exactly what this
is), and how this was "true." The idea that this movie was realistic is
ridiculous. First of all, a few token one-liners in the movie were
clever and well written, but would never come out of a teenager's
mouth. As a teenager myself, I can confirm that we are not that
profound. I didn't understand the appeal that either of the main
characters had in the other, other than the fact they both had cancer.
Hazel was boring, and selfish, and self-pitying, and Gus was so
pretentious it made me feel sick, and I never believed for a second
that he was a virgin. Of course cancer is a terrible thing, as is death
itself, but the fact that I didn't care about either of them, and saw
them as a caricature of what John Green thinks or wants teenagers with
cancer to act like, made me completely indifferent to their predictable
demise. The story line with them going to Amsterdam to visit the author
of their favorite book was annoying and unnecessary. Although the
author was painted as this terrible person, I actually agreed
everything that came out of his mouth about Hazel. I'm pretty sure the
whole point of that scene was to say "hey, what can we do to make this
movie even more depressing? I know, let's take the one thing that the
main character cares about and destroy it, in order to make her
completely dependent on her love interest." There's too many complaints
I have about specific eye-roll inducing lines and scenes in this movie
to even remember, but the one that angered me more than anything was
when they went to the Anne Frank house. First, they tried to compare
the horrible death of Anne Frank and her family, which was an outcome
of the most horrible thing that has happened in human history, to these
teenagers dying with cancer. As soon as they reached the top floor of
the house, paying attention only to Hazel struggling to climb the
stairs, in my mind I started thinking "please make them be respectful.
I swear, if Gus tries to crack a self-righteous joke I will punch my
laptop screen." At first, I was pleasantly surprised, because they were
quiet and solemn, but then, they begin making out... Only to make it
worse, everyone in the room begins clapping. Why? If I was there, I
would be furious at their lack of respect. I can only hope this scene
wasn't filmed in the actual house. Towards the end I was constantly
checking the bar at the bottom of my screen to see how long I had left.
I kept thinking, when is this really sad part coming that will make me
cry? and when the credits started rolling, I realized it never would.
The fact that people are describing this piece of trash as the best
movie they have ever seen boggles my mind. I'm assuming it's the first
movie they have ever seen. If you want to watch a realistic romance
movie, you won't find it here. Don't waste your time.
<|_=00=_|>
I give it "1" because IMDb doesn't let me give it 0. I never wrote a
review before, but seeing the average of 8.5 gave me a feeling of never
being able to trust IMDb again.

I usually check movie scores in IMDb to decide if I should watch it in
the theaters. Below 7 is lame (except for comedies which gets lower
scores). 7 to 8 maybe. 8 and up must see (except for this movie).
Seeing an 8.5 I went to the theater excited. I hope someone like me is
out there and reads this review before he wastes his time and money
with it.

What I saw: Boring, depressing, cynic, pessimist, average looking to
slightly good looking girl has lung cancer. The audience is led to
believe she is smart because she read the same book 1000 times over
(doing that isn't smart) and goes to college (which she doesn't
really).

She goes to a support group where good hearted, Christian, cancer
survivor (which is made to look like a loser) helps young people who
have cancer. 

There, she meets 2 characters: 1) eye cancer guy who is going to have
to remove them and has a huge boobed (to good for him) girlfriend, who
will leave him 10 minutes later. 2) his friend, an extremely athletic,
pretty, extremely confident guy (even though he's a virgin (yeah right
*rolls eyes*)) who is also a cancer survivor (lost a leg to it, but is
paradoxically still very athletic). 

Even though his value on the meat market is much higher than the
protagonist girl's value, he only has eyes for her, even without her
saying anything but depressing things.

At the end of the meeting, if being athletic, pretty and confident
isn't enough, a girl passes by him trying to get his attention (to show
that even other girls are into him), so that the main girl can be
certain that he's an alpha male, but she still give's him a hard time
(because in every romantic movie a guy has to prove himself even beyond
the shadow of a doubt that he's the man for a boring girl (the
exception is when there are 2 awesome guys fighting for the same girl
(Twilight))).

They start talking on the phone and she lends him her favorite book. 

The leg cancer guy says that her book is amazing. And since the spoiled
brat cancer girl has some stupid question she wants to make to the
author, he decides to get them both a trip to Europe to talk to the
writer of the book. He could get anything for himself, but he decides
to give his special once in a lifetime cancer wish to her, even though
they are not boyfriend/girlfriend, they have not had sex, they haven't
even kissed yet.

Her doctor is the ugliest actor, so you know he's going to be the bad
guy. He tells her that she can't take the trip in any possible way! She
goes anyway (obviously).

In the generic romantic European country, the guy decides to use a tux
(which all men love to wear... Not!) to take her to a very expensive
dinner (which although he doesn't end up having to pay, he was more
than happy to be able to pay for her!).

The author seems to be a reasonable guy, he tells them in other words
that the book ended the way it should have ended, that her questions
are stupid and that she's a spoiled brat/ narcissist (which is all
true).

She gets sad, boy comforts her and tells her he could write a better
ending then the author (no he couldn't, and if that's the case, why
couldn't she? and why did they come in the first place?), they decide
to go to Anne Frank's house. She's tired of going upstairs because of
her lung cancer. When she's at the place where Anne Frank hid, she
kisses the boy. Other tourists who were there clap for the blatant
disrespect of Anne's suffering because they're Nazis(it's the only
reasonable explanation). This clapping cheers them on to having sex.

At this point me and my girlfriend were discussing going out of the
theater before the end, because it was so bad and cliché, but we
stayed, just in case the end was amazing to make up for all this
bulls...

They go back to America. Guy has cancer again and becomes depressed (He
knew it before going to Europe, but only gets depressed about it now, w
t f?!). In his depression he stops talking to girl (because romantic
movies need a moment of sad separation which can always be easily
resolved after some days by talking). He starts talking to girl
again... about death. Girl writes eulogy for boy, and reads it to him.
Boy dies, it's time for her to read eulogy (I'm thinking: she's
obviously not going to read the same thing again, because that would be
boring for the audience of the movie) and then she doesn't read it!
(what?! who saw that coming except for everyone!?). She decides to say
bland feel good lies in his funeral, instead of the truth, because
she's a conformist narcissist coward. 

Girl gets a paper that leg cancer boy wrote to her before he died. I
barely remember, but it's some romantic BS. The end.

There's also a scene I don't remember exactly when in the movie that
shows how deep does narcissism goes in the girl: She says that she
knows that when she dies, her parents are not going to be able to do
anything anymore, shrivel and die, because she's dead. Her parents are
like: No, we aren't. Get over yourself.

Highlight of the movie: Another guy plays violin for a short bit of
time.
