
The best part about this movie is seeing Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine,
and Alan Arkin all on screen together. They have fantastic chemistry,
and you really feel like their characters have actually been friends
for 30+ years. They just glow on screen, and seeing them riff on each
other and have a good time made for me to have a good time as well.
They all gave great performances. The supporting cast was also really
good. It was fun to see Christopher Lloyd pop up in a film again. We
also got see some good performances from Kenan Thompson and
Ann-Margret. Look, with this movie, there are no revolutionary jokes.
It's everything you would expect there to be. I do tend to prefer
edgier comedy than this, but I made my peace with it the second the
first joke hit. This isn't meant to be a Seth Rogen kind of comedy.
This is supposed to just be a fun, light- hearted, feel-good comedy,
and it was really good for what it was...
<|_=00=_|>
The new film, GOING IN STYLE, is the equivalent of eating a Grilled
Cheese Sandwich with Tomato Soup on a cold, rainy Sunday afternoon -
very familiar, very welcome and very comforting.  It's not going to win
any Academy Awards or change the course of movie history, but this film
delivers - competently and professionally - what it promises to deliver
with no fuss and no muss.

Starring film veterans Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman and Alan Arkin,
GOING IN STYLE tells the story of how these three are pressed against
the wall, financially, and their last resort is to rob a bank to get
the money they need.

And...it's fun...not hilarious...not groundbreaking, but fun.  Caine,
Freeman and Arkin believably play 3 long time friends who are nearing
the end.  There is a comfort there with each other and it was pleasant
to spend time with them.  Joining them was the one and only Ann-
Margret and the always fun Christopher Lloyd (in, hands down, the best
performance and most interesting character in the film).

Notice, I've used the words comforting, pleasant and pleasing.  I did
NOT use the words groundbreaking, hilarious or epic.  I certainly
enjoyed myself and am glad I saw it.

And you will too, whether you see this film in the movie theater or run
across it as you are lying on the couch some rainy Sunday afternoon.

Letter Grade:  a solid "B"

7 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank (of Marquis)
<|_=00=_|>
Personally, I really like the works of Zach Braff, I fell in love with
him in the series "Scrubs", which, thanks to the actor's play of Braff,
delighted the fans for many years. Later I became interested in his
first feature film "Garden State", which showed an unusual director's
style of Braff. Then, after many years, the second film "Wish i Was
Here" appeared, in which the matured director shared with the audience
his experiences about the upbringing of children and death. Before
watching "Going in Style" i found out that the film is a remake of the
same picture released in 1979, this prompted me first to see it. Let's
move on to the film itself.

Actors Actors on the main roles, Braff took the first magnitude: Morgan
Freeman, Michael Kane, Alan Arkin. Each of the actors is already a
professional in their field, so they played at their good level:
convincingly and vigorously. This film is the sixth joint work of
Morgan Freeman and Michael Kane after the trilogy of Christopher Nolan
about Batman and the "Now You See Me" dialog. Not a bad role was the
young actress Joey King, who played the granddaughter of the character
Michael Caine. I think that the actress will have many good and
interesting roles in the future. Also pleased with the appearance of
Christopher Lloyd, who was remembered by the majority for the role of
Dr. Emmett Brown in the trilogy "Back to the Future".

Story As I wrote earlier, before watching this film, I already looked
at the version of 1979. When I went to the film, I assumed that I would
see the story one by one, only with the eyes of another director. But,
as it turned out, the film's writers foresaw this and pleasantly
surprised me by changing the plot in key places. Both films, the 1979
film and the Braff movie are based on the work of Edward Cannon.

Cinematography Separately, I would like to note the excellent and
beautiful camera-work of Rodney Charters, which positively influenced
the film and created for him a memorable style.

The Result Although the film is not based on the original script of
Zach Braff, his style is still very clearly traced in the picture. I
believe that under the leadership of Braff, the film turned out to be
much more energetic and cheerful compared to the previous
interpretation of the work of Edward Cannon. Remained pleasantly
surprised and pleased of film. I look forward to the next product of
Braff.

9 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was the best thing, which could happen to me in sneak
preview. I laughed so often, an wonderful story combined with great
actors and Zach Braff, who made a great job to transform the old movie
into todays background. I'd like to see more movies like this, than the
stupid standard comedy from Hollywood. I recommend everyone to see this
film and have great two hours. A quick summary: perfect chosen actor,s
a bit predictable, but i liked it anyway, jokes,jokes,jokes... GO watch
this film !
<|_=00=_|>
Out of all of the movies that I have seen this year, this movie is by
far the funniest. Within five minutes, my stomach hurt because I was
laughing so much. 

I love a comedic plot and Going In Style is exactly that - three older
men try to rob a bank to obtain a better life. These lifelong friends,
Willie, Al and Joe, are having personal struggles. Willie (Morgan
Freeman) desperately needs a new kidney. Joe (Michael Caine) is losing
his home. And, Al (Alan Arkin) is just pressured into robbing a bank.
Joe thinks of making the idea a reality once their pensions are
canceled. Inspired by a robbery the men witnessed, Willie, Joe and Al
are optimistic they can steal their deserved pension money, but are
going to need help. 

Morgan Freeman's portrayal of Willie is incredible. Given that Willie
needs a new kidney to better his life, Freeman's despair is
heart-wrenching and he connects with the audience in a unique way,
because he remains hopeful that he will feel better in the near future.
Michael Caine really suits the role of Joe whose fearless personality
helps accelerate the success of the robbery. Alan Arkin plays Al who
acts innocent at first, but once the robbery becomes a reality, you see
his wild side emerge and it is quite hilarious. 

The costumes worn by Willie, Joe and Al are extremely entertaining.
They wear masks that resemble famous people! In addition to this, the
bank they plan to rob is very fancy. Seeing famous people walk into an
elegant bank with guns and large bags is humorous to watch. My favorite
part is when Joe and Willie are watching television and The
Bachelorette comes on. This scene had me laughing the entire time
because I am a such a Bachelorette fan. Seeing these older men discuss
Kaitlyn Bristowe's final pick was unexpected, but gave me a good laugh. 

The message of this film is to chase after your dreams, no matter how
old you are. If 70 year old men can rob a bank, then you can too. All
humor aside, the film illustrates that nothing is impossible and you
can better your life if you want to. Hands down, this film deserves 5
out of 5 stars. There are a multitude of jokes, action scenes and the
motivation that these three men possess to reunite with their families
and better their lives is so strong. It motivates me to jump over any
obstacle in my way and complete any task I need to. I recommend this
film to kids ages 13 to 18, because it leaves you with a smile on your
face. Even though it is about robbing a bank, kids know to not
replicate that, so I'm not concerned about them heading out to rob
their neighborhood bank. 

There are a few shooting scenes, so please be mindful about who goes to
see this film. Adults will love this film as well, because they can
relate to the personal issues these men face. It has something for
everyone and if you have never seen three older men rob a bank, you
definitely should. 

By Samantha M., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic.
<|_=00=_|>
Remakes shouldn't carbon copy the originals. "Garden State" director
Zach Braff of "Scrubs" and "Hidden Figures" scenarist Theodore Melfi
have jettisoned more from the original "Going in Style" than you might
expect, but they also have lightened up the tone with amusing
shenanigans and gags galore. Initially, "Going in Style" (1979) blended
low-key comedy with grim drama in its straightforward depiction of
brazen oldsters who engineered a bank heist wearing little more than
dime-store disguises, essentially Groucho Marx masks, with big black
glasses, big bulging noses, and big droopy mustaches. George Burns, Art
Carney, and Les Strasberg starred as the ambitious old geezers who held
up a bank because they were bored with their daily routine of sitting
on a park bench. Sadly, those three old-timers didn't live happily ever
after once they got away with the goods. Two of them croaked after the
crime, and the mastermind surrendered and served time. Ultimately, the
mastermind refused to divulge the location of the loot. In the end, he
decided that he could break out of the prison with little difficulty.
Imagine George Burns imitating the perennially pugnacious Humphrey
Bogart, and you'll have a good idea what a hard-boiled egg Burns made
as the ringleader of the elderly triumvirate. If you've never heard of
George Burns, he was the cigar-smoking comedian who made the "Oh, God!"
trilogy. 

In their "Going in Style" remake, Braff and Melfi have preserved the
premise about three seniors who decide to stage a bank robbery. Braff
and Melfi stick with the same three names of the original characters:
Joe, Al, and Willie, but change their color and nationality. Typically,
Hollywood prefers to reward altruistic characters who perform good
deeds and punish villains for their selfish, wicked ways.
Comparatively, Braff's "Going in Style" remake relies far more on
feel-good fantasy than abrasive drama, and the characters are not the
original skeleton crew. Braff and Melfi have gone to considerable
lengths to flesh out each character so these individuals boast stronger
motivations about turning to a life of crime despite the possibility of
not only shooting up a bank but also being shot by anyone during the
robbery. Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman, and Alan Arkin step into the
shoes of George Burns, Art Carney, and Les Strasberg as the three
codgers who committed the crime. Happily, the new Willie, Al, and Joe
enjoy greater success than their predecessors after they carried out
their criminal enterprise.

"Going in Style" never lets one of the three heroes outshine the other
two in terms of extended or abbreviated screen time. Willie (Morgan
Freeman of "Driving Miss Daisy"), Al (Oscar-winning actor Alan Arkin of
"Argo," and Joe (Oscar-winning actor Michael Caine) neither live
together nor contend with the dried-up, depressing, boring lives that
their predecessors endured with death looming on the horizon. Rather
than robbing a bank out of sheer boredom, the three new protagonists
resort to bank robbery because the company that employed them for 30
years has frozen their pensions and it is stashing that pension money
in a local bank for other purposes. Willie, Al, and Joe attend the
public meeting at their old company, and they walk away with rage in
their hearts. Willie teeters on the verge of death from a bad kidney,
but refuses to alarm them. His doctor warns him he must locate a donor
because his chances of acquiring a new kidney are slim to none. Al gave
the best years of his life to the same company, but he abhors the idea
of sticking up a bank. Eventually, he decides to join them. Ultimately,
the driving force behind the bank robbery caper is Joe because he has
overdrawn his checking account and is poised to lose his home. In the
original, Willie, Al, and Joe all shared the same house. Furthermore,
the original protagonists were all Caucasian, while the latest group
emerges as diverse, multi-cultural triad. African-American,
Jewish-American, and British, without a White Anglo-Saxon in sight.
Like the original, the individual who formulates the strategy for
stealing thousands of bucks at gunpoint is Joe. Not only does Joe fear
he will lose his house, but he also dreads the prospect that his
granddaughter, Brooklyn (Joey King of "The Conjuring") and her mother,
Rachel (Maria Dizzia of "Margin Call") won't have a place to live after
his eviction. 

Joe is oblivious to his monetary woes until he visits his bank and
discovers his dire straits. While he is learning about his woebegone
financial status, three masked felons decked out in black suits with
assault rifles burst into the bank and threaten to shoot anybody who
doesn't cooperate. They make all the customers lay on the floor and
they go from one bank cashier to the next watching each as they dish
out the dough and put it in their satchels. The efficiency and speed of
these three bank robbers stun Joe. Indeed, this robbery scene reminded
me of the scene in director Michael Mann's classic caper "Heat" (1995)
with Al Pacino and Robert De Niro. Like his predecessor in the 1979
original, Joe has a difficult time persuading his two lifelong friends
to accompany him to the Williamsburg Savings Bank in Brooklyn with
pistols and masks. Unlike their predecessors, these three decide to
learn a little about bank robbery from a pro, Jesús (John Ortiz of
"Kong: Skull Island"), who operates a dog grooming business, but
moonlights as a bank robber. Jesús trains them in every aspect of a
hold-up, and they cut him in for a quarter of the loot. When Willie,
Al, and Joe enter the bank, they have a clue about what they're doing,
and they maintain a timetable so as to escape before the police arrive.

"Going in Style" generates lots of comedy and some spine-tingling
suspense. Predictable in certain respects, this immaculate bank robbery
caper never wears out its welcome, with heroes that you can respect and
root for in their efforts to make good.
<|_=00=_|>
Joyful, hilarious, touching, exciting. "Going in Style" fits in all
these categories, proving how age does not  and should not  deprive
actors of comedic spirit. Michael Cane ('Joe'), Morgan Freeman
('Willie'), and Alan Arkin ('Al') give such good performances to the
point that moments of lack of subtlety  from both the script and the
direction  are minimized instead of forgiven. It is a hell of a good
time from beginning to end.

Down on their luck, the three old friends struggle to simply get
through the day is becoming more unbearable each day. 'Joe' is under
the pressure of bank eviction notices, 'Willie' has to overcome the
distance from the family, and 'Al', well, could not care less as long
as he is not alone. Alan Arkin, by the way, steals every scene 
"Little Miss Sunshine" vibes.

Their situation reaches its breaking point when their pensions are
frozen. The three leads decide to rob their mutual bank and this part
of the plot is what defines this movie for what it is. On the one hand,
it plays up, to the maximum level, all the possible jokes and funny
moments applicable to the circumstance  and the payoff includes a
supermarket scene that I will not forget so soon. Another way it works
is with the sneaky and twisty nature of the bank robbery operation 
orchestrated with the help of 'Jesus' (John Ortiz). These do not just
make sense, but they are truly clever. 

The part where it comes across as not as bright is in its efforts of
justifying the leads actions. Of course, situations like this can and
do very well happen, and are genuine injustices. Michael Cane sells
that emotion with a few dramatic scenes involving his granddaughter in
the film 'Brooklyn', played by Joey King. It is, however, in dealing
with the circumstances of the robbery and the nature of such a
situation that it falls short. Again, this is does not get in the way
of it being a good and fully enjoyable film; it only keeps it from
having that extra level of much appreciated sophistication. 

Ultimately, "Going in Style" does what it came to theaters to do: get
constant, big, and loud laughs from the audience. It provides
spectators with incredible 90 or so minutes of good fun at the movies.
Despite hilarious supporting performances by Christopher Lloyd as
'Milton' and Ann-Margaret as 'Annie', the three Oscar winners leads
carry this film with such class and wit that it makes it really hard
not to enjoy the trip to the theater.

7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Lately most movies are so full of killings and gross things I just do
not need to see! My husband and I went to see this movie as it looked
fun. BOY IT WAS FUN! Lots of laughter and truly made you think about
what some families go through to live day to day. WE LOVED THIS MOVIE
SO MUCH. Excellent cast. very nice! Will return to see it again. Worth
every dime.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "Going in Style", starring Morgan Freeman-The Dark Knight movies,
Unforgiven; Michael Caine-The Dark Knight movies, Miss Congeniality;
Alan Arkin-Million Dollar Arm, Little Miss Sunshine and Ann Margret-Old
Dogs, Viva Las Vegas.

This is a geriatric heist comedy that is a remake of a 1979 film of the
same name-it starred George Burns, Art Carney & Lee Strasberg. In the
original, the old timers were resorting to robbing a bank because of
boredom and wanting to feel young again. In this version, they are
forced into a criminal life because of necessity-they need the money
because they have lost their pensions. Morgan, Michael & Alan are the 3
old friends on fixed incomes that decide to rob the bank that is
foreclosing on Michael's house. Ann plays a woman at the local grocery
store that likes Alan. One of the funniest scenes is when the guys
decide to do a trail run on the grocery store, in preparation for
robbing the bank-they try to steal groceries. They are not very good at
it and decide to get help from a professional thief who gets them into
shape. It's not laugh out loud funny but it is entertaining and I
smiled a lot. It is directed by Zach Braff, who was an actor in Garden
State & Scrubs_tv. It's rated "PG-13" for drug content, language and
sexual content-no nudity-and has a running time of 1 hour & 36 minutes.
I enjoyed it enough that I would buy it on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
The age of comedy has certainly changed over the years, transitioning
from the classic slapstick to a simpler, straightforward approach that
today's youth loves. Yet, every once in a while, the legends from the
past return in an attempt to bring some whit back to the silver screen.
Tonight, my friend and I head back into the trenches of the local
theater to give some insight into Going in Style starring the legendary
trio of Morgan Freeman, Alan Arkin, and Michael Caine. Let's get
started!

LIKES:  Classic comedy  Good chemistry between actors  Cute  Nicely
tied together story

Summary: If the intro didn't spoil it for you, Going in Style is true
to its name, as the trio brings the classic comedy back into style.
Fans of the slapstick of yore are going to bust a gut at this film as
the timeless styles of the leads continue to shine bright. Caine and
Freeman have comedic timing and delivery down, with clever lines
craftily intertwined in the serious dialogue that put today's writing
to shame. Arkin on the other hand is all about the banter and
complaining, which for the most part is balanced and well-placed. The
trio have great chemistry together, and sell that they are best friends
who have faced the challenge called life. They sell the struggles and
praise the joys, and do it with such class and minimizing the stupid,
mindless banter famous today. And in addition to being funny, the lack
of crude comedy also makes this movie cute. Watching older men trying
to rob a bank, while also getting their lives in order makes for an
adorable adventure as my friend commented. Of course, this reviewer
likes a story to his comedy, and Going in Style gets this right too.
It's a hardy story for most ages, and one that won't have the older
audience members shaking their heads in shame. This may also surprise
you, but there were a couple of twists that fooled me, which isn't easy
in the comedy genre. 

DISLIKES:  Predictable  Depressing at times  Old jokes get a bit
stale

Summary: With a simple story as this, it's not surprising that much of
the story is predictable. Given the theme of the movie, you should be
able to predict most of the ending, and certainly can guess where
things are going to go wrong. Therefore, the uniqueness of this movie
takes a hit in the story department. And no surprise, the comedy is
also predictable and therefore loses the comedy edge they wanted to
deliverat least to me. While the trailers do promote the more fun
atmosphere of the movie, don't let it fool you that it is all happiness
and rainbows (that's the Smurfs!). Going in style emphasizes the end of
life generation, highlighting the less than glorious problems of
getting older. There are parts that brought me down as they emphasized
the sadder qualities of life. Thank goodness for the consistent comedy,
because otherwise this could have been a much harder movie to watch. Of
all the comedy this movie has in its folds, they certainly stuck with
the old theme of this movie. Positives, there are plenty of quips and
class to the punches they throw. Bad news, the quips get older than the
actors delivering them. How many insults about difficulties getting up
can you make, or metaphors for being poor and not having a check. It's
good political awareness (nice work there writers), but it would have
been nice for a little more variety to work its way into the
vaudeville. 

The VERDICT:

Going in Style is one of the classier, wittier comedies to end up in
the theater this year. Both this reviewer and his friend, enjoyed the
trade of simplistic one-liners and innuendos for a less aggressive
comedy style that shows the traditional style has not been lost quite
yet. Despite the trade up though, the movie is still very predictable
and simplistic enough to still be stuck in the mediocre territory. As
much fun as I had in the movie, there isn't much to warrant it for a
movie theater visit, unless you are a fan of the traditional comedy and
looking for a fun group/date movie. 

My scores are:

Comedy/Crime: 7.5 Movie Overall: 6.0
