
Many years ago, pre-scandal director Jack Neo scored one of his hugest
hits with I Not Stupid, a poignant, intelligent movie about the trials
and tribulations (mostly trials) of growing up under Singapore's
rigorous education system. That film remains my favourite local movie
because it so wonderfully encapsulates the Singaporean experience: it's
true to life, featuring characters and situations we will all
recognise, and it boasts an awful lot of heart and home truths. I was
hoping that Neo would make a long-awaited return to form with Ah Boys
To Men, following a string of increasingly commercialistic films that
have drawn flack for their shameless product placement.

As I Not Stupid did with our schools and students, Ah Boys has in its
cross-hairs the National Service (NS) scheme that's been in place in
our little island republic for forty-five years now. Joshua Tan plays
Ken Chow, the spoiled scion of a wealthy family  and self- absorbed,
vaguely ungrateful son to a father who just wants him to make the most
of his time in NS (Liu Qianyi) and a desperately over- protective,
indulgent mother who tries all ways and means to get her son off the
proverbial hook (Irene Ang). When he's enlisted against his will, he
meets his bunkmates: well-connected buddy 'Lobang' (Wang Weiliang), ang
mor pai aspiring officer-to-be Aloysius (Maxi Lim). But Ken just wants
to be with his girlfriend, who's due to go overseas to study, and he
starts plotting ways and means to get off his enforced sequestration on
the training island of Pulau Tekong.

How does Neo's Ah Boys measure up to Michael Chiang's oft-revived play
Army Daze? Ah Boys updates the circumstances in which the boys find
themselves  so there's some talk of camera phones and the occasional
use of Skype for not-so-romantic tête-a-têtes. But, strip that all
away, and the two stories are broadly similar. Both feature a
tongue-in-cheek look at the enlisting process, and then the training
period  following a group of very different kids who start out as
strangers but find that friendships can be bred in the (literal)
trenches. Neither film is a fierce political statement decrying
mandatory conscription. There is some mocking of the institution, but
for the most part, NS is accepted as a fact of life, and celebrated as
something that brings a mismatched group of boys together and forces
them to become men.

In that sense, Neo's movie doesn't mean to be inoffensive though it
may annoy some people with its largely benign, nostalgic depiction of a
military stint that they personally didn't enjoy or value. There is a
whiff of chest-thumping to this film that could prove annoying after a
while: Ken's father is a lonely advocate for NS in the film, begging to
be heard above the jokes that constitute the memories and narratives of
those who look less charitably on the army  but he's presented as the
voice of reason, the one who should be respected. It certainly doesn't
help matters or impressions that the director received the Ministry of
Defence's full cooperation in terms of loans of machinery, equipment,
weaponry and access to Tekong although he firmly maintains that Mindef
did not invest in the project.

That's not to say Neo's depiction of NS and a possible war-time
scenario don't impress on occasion. They do  any young man will
recognise the days when they were hazed mercilessly by their platoon
sergeants, and forced to drop twenty for insolence or disobedience. My
favourite parts of the film are probably the nostalgia-tinged flashback
segments that are scattered throughout: Ken's uncle reminisces about
his time in the army, when hazing was twenty times worse, and those
moments serve as funny, surprisingly sweet counterpoints to our more
regulated, modern times.

As for the vaunted war-time scenario  for which Neo famously scored
special permission to shut off parts of the busy business district 
it's fun enough to watch, and the CGI doesn't look too bad (though it
looks rather too shiny and perfect to be quite real). It serves as a
framing device for the rest of the film: it's intended to drive home
the real stakes our army boys are playing for, that there might well be
blood and death and sacrifice in their futures, however impossible that
appears in the safety of their bunks and the lack of a military threat
against Singapore. The concept works well enough  but the execution
leaves a little to be desired when it becomes clear that the blood,
bombs and destruction were less serious simulation and more silly
game-play.

As for what can be expected from the rest of the film: Neo goes into it
with his standard bag of film-making tricks. His humour is sly and
subversive, but only a little bit so; his characters manage that
difficult trick of being both caricatures and real people; and he
crafts sneaky emotional hooks into his stories which would cynically be
called emotionally manipulative. Ken, Lobang, Aloysius and even Ken's
parents come close to being stereotypes we've seen before, but their
concerns still come through in a way that's occasionally affecting.

For anyone who's watched a Jack Neo movie or two, there are two
possible ways to respond to Ah Boys: it could be a comfortingly
familiar experience, as it feels just exactly like the kind of movie
he's made many times before. It even hits some of the same far-reaching
emotional notes as I Not Stupid, reminding every boy of his own
experience with NS (whether it lies behind or ahead of him) while
every girl will have known someone who's enlisted. The other way lies
frustration: annoyance that Neo is pulling the same old cards out of
his sleeve, for a movie that's bloated with padding so that he can
slice off another two hours to make the sequel (which follows in
February next year).
