
Many people said it is an anti-war movie,I don't think so. This movie
is far more than anti-war.Because it is not a rich story ,but a rich
truth and an emotion. It doesn't want to give you an opinion about what
war is, but show you an emotion about a young man and a war. A
so-called hero came back from Iraq, how is his life?

In the real world, the truth and emotion are complicated. So it is hard
to say what its theme is. Maybe the theme is to doubt our fake society
Maybe the theme is to show the hero's confused life. However, they are
parts of this movie. It is more like a section of Billy's life. He has
family,battle companion, stranger and girlfriends. Sometimes he is
distracted at his important moment,sometims all in front of him remind
him of war. He sees and thinks.He might find that life is difficult to
choose,finally he go back to the place where he belongs.

If you can feel you are Billy Lynn, you can feel how ridiculous this
society is.Nobody understands you,people see what they want to see.the
sad thing is, you can change nothing but follow the direction of fate.

If you don't have sensory substitution,this movie is boring.

From the beginning of Billy's halftime show， I can't help crying. I
even can't detail the reasons of my tears. The emotion is so strong, so
complicate and so advanced. I feel so sad about Billy's life.

I think it is a good movie, not very fun, but revolutionary.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watched this film as part of the New York Film Festival early
screening and it's a film that will be stuck in my mind for awhile,
it's a deeply emotional and moving film with great acting (particularly
newcomer, Joe Alwyn), cinematography and an original score. The ending
was strong and had me choked up, the movie is based on a satirical
novel so there is definitely some humor in it so it's not a totally
depressing film but definitely a thought-provoking one, this was the
film I was anticipating the most out of the 2016 releases then upon
reading some underwhelming reviews from the opening night my
expectations went down a little but I think it will be go down as one
of the best films of the year, it's images and its anti-war message in
my opinion were powerful and the film should inspire a lot conversation
about what it means to "support the troops" and how we can help those
returning who are suffering from PTSD, overall I give it 8 out of 10
stars, I hope people go out and see this in the theater and talk about
it afterwards.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very effective anti war movie. And it achieves a lot with a
pretty low body count. It looks at a young soldier who after performing
a heroic action caught on camera is involved in a promotional tour.
It's subtle but completely clear in it's message.

Through flashbacks there are many effective contrasts here between what
went on in Iraq in attacks and the public relations football match
slash Destiny's Child concert. Also showing the troops rounding up men
in their home with their families watching.

It is very insightful how he was about to give up the soldier life for
this cheerleader he hooked up with only to find she only was interested
in him as a hero.

Another great realism shown is how the slimy developer magnate played
by Steve Martin wants to short change them for rights to a film about
the soldiers.

Liked how they are so unappreciated by the guys back home who try to
pick fights with them The most touching parts are with his sister
played by Kristen Stewart who is the only one who really cares for him
and tries to do something about it. There is no sentimentality wasted
in the movie so their final scene is more meaningful for that. Kristen
acts convincingly as the injured sister. Subtle and thoroughly
convincing.

Joe Alwyn as the title character is a good choice. He isn't too good
looking so it's realistic. And he doesn't overact either. Just the
right amount of emotion.

This movie makes one think about it after it's over. Best Ang Lee movie
for a while.
<|_=00=_|>
-Warning! Spoilers! Do NOT read this until AFTER you have watched the
film.-

Around 1:35 in the film, when Albert (Chris Tucker) is in the bathroom
talking to Lynn about what "they call in my business, a Hollywood
Moment."

As he is reassuring him, he says that he will, "Go all the way to China
to get this film made if he has to."

So meta. So awesome. Even the cinematography there, with the pep talk
to Lynn "..more Americans need to see the war like you guys do.." was
straight out of a prior generation American propaganda flick. Vocal
tone. Framing.

Ang Lee and the rest of the team did an amazing job with this. If any
hour's plus worth of film can communicate so, so many of the true
dynamics involved in the "War on Terror", this is the film to do it.

This film should be mandatory viewing for all middle school or high
school students. The characters and dialogue are so over the top
sarcastic and poignant, that I truly believe all but the most dense and
indoctrinated Americans will be forced to think and question by this
film.

The moment where the union thugs, whose conflict started over their
slighted authority to clear the stage previously, ambush the shoulders,
really drives how upside down our society has become with regards to
where the reins of power are. They are there in hands those who put on
the show to support the empire. Not those whose story is propagandized
to in the first place.

Military or Minimum Wage Service, which one will it be? Too many
Americans are forced with that brutal choice for survival. This film
does an amazing job of touching upon the absurdity between 'rich' and
'poor'. 

Above and beyond everything this film did well, the dialogue and
casting for Garrett Hedlund as the SSGT leader of Bravo was beyond
stellar. He perfectly projected that manipulative technique, that the
military uses as a lever to keep some of the most good intentioned
troops engaged in combat.

"No matter how screwed up the mission. No matter how dire the
circumstances. It is all about the man to your left, and to your right.
They are there for you, and you are there for them."

Or as it was written in the film. (paraphrased) "I need you Billy. I
need you to help me keep these guys alive." It was the moment that Lynn
decided to stay with the guys. It is a moment that anyone who has ever
made a commitment to someone else, and had that commitment tested in a
manner that few ever will, can perfectly understand.

I hope that people, after watching this film, take a real hard look at
what is going on behind the reasons they are given. That they look at
the reasons television, and the Internet give them for supporting a
government, that sends good men, to do violence in some of the poorest
places on earth, for the benefit of fewer than 1% of the world's
population. Not just less than 1% of America's population, but of the
world's population.

"It would take a real hero to stand up to our country." as Kathryn
(Kristen Stewart) says at the end.

But first, heroes would have to unplug from the narrative.
<|_=00=_|>
Ben Johnson's novel has been exceptionally well adapted for the screen
by Jean- Christophe Castelli and directed with the expected sensitivity
of Ang Lee. It is a kick in the gut for those who see it  an anti-war
statement placed in front of us as the never- ending wars in the Middle
East continue to fester and destroy lives on all sides of the war zone
and beyond. But it is also a biting statement about the time in which
we live, a time when entertainment and gross spending of money is
directed toward the insatiable appetite for big shows and stars and
shallow moments of pleasure that appear to obsess us. The manner in
which returning soldiers face 'instant glory' is overshadowed by the
inherent bully-ism by a public that does not understand the cancer of
war and how it metastasizes throughout our troubled planet.

The film is told from the point of view of 19-year-old private Billy
Lynn (Joe Alwyn) who, along with his fellow soldiers in Bravo Squad
(Garrett Hedlund, Arturo Castro, Mason Lee, Astro, Beau Knapp, Ismael
Cruz Cordova, Barney Harris and Vin Diesel) becomes a hero after a
harrowing Iraq battle and is brought home temporarily for a victory
tour. Through flashbacks, culminating at the spectacular halftime show
of the Thanksgiving Day football game in Dallas, Texas, the film
reveals what really happened to the squad - contrasting the realities
of the war with America's perceptions. Billy's family's response to his
Silver Star heroism is conflicted with Billy's damaged sister Kathryn
(Kristen Stewart) who pleads with Billy not to return for another tour
in Iraq. Billy finds a possible entry to fame through a film about
Bravo by Albert (Chris Tucker), thwarted by the wealthy insensitive
would-be backer Norm (Steve Martin), an introduction to love by one of
the Dallas cheerleaders Faison (Makenzie Leigh), and in the end, though
disenchanted with America's reaction to what soldiers suffer in war
zones, Billy makes the 'long halftime walk' back to his beloved buddies
of Bravo as they prepare to return to duty. 

The film seems all glitter on the surface until the inserted flashbacks
of the realities of war in Iraq  a factor that makes the film even
more poignant as an anti-war statement. This is a strong film that will
move sensitive viewers  hopefully to action.
<|_=00=_|>
This will be short and to the point. Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk is
not a "war movie". It is not a propaganda picture about American
Imperialism, it is not a recruitment poster, and it is most certainly
not an action movie. War, in all its complexity, is incidental to this
film. Billy Lynn just happens to be a soldier and the events that kick
off the film happened at war. 

This is a film about labels.

From the moment Billy is labeled a "hero" by the press for doing
something he didn't have time to think about, his life is consumed. He
comes a symbol to everyone he meets, even those who are supposed to
love and know him best. 

To the Army, he becomes a recruitment tool. They send him on tour to be
the Face of the War despite accomplishing nothing more than anyone else
in his unit.

To Hollywood, he becomes a character. A fiction to be utilized in
winning more accolades for people who already have plenty of it.

To his admirers, he becomes a "hero". A walking uniform onto whom one
can pin all their unfulfilled aspirations and unrealistic expectations.
One whose hand they can shake and be freed of all responsibility.

To his sister, he becomes a victim. An unwilling pawn of an unjust war,
no matter how he himself feels about it.

To everyone, Billy Lynn becomes everything except Billy Lynn. The flesh
and blood and memories of the person disappears into the mystique of
heroism, until the only people left who still see it are his fellow
soldiers. And the only place left where he isn't a symbol, the war.

This is not a war movie. If that is what you are expecting, don't see
it.
<|_=00=_|>
These young men come home to be celebrated, but instead find themselves
dropped headfirst into America's worst examples of decadence and greed.
It is the most accurate representation I've seen yet, of the cancer
eating away at our great country.

Bravo to Mr. Lee!

I have to admit I wasn't expecting a great deal out of this movie's
director, what with the failure of 'Hulk', but I walked away from it
with a new depth of understanding. It was an astoundingly well
portrayed film.

I gave the movie 9 out of 10 because of Vin Diesel's lack-luster
performance. Else, the movie was excellent!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is far from anti-war. This movie is full of emotion and
thinking of soldier after-war life. They are not understood and being
treated with people's arrogance and coldness. People do not really care
about them but what can they dig from them. The director again use his
way to express the emotion inside the character which he is most good
at. the movie is worth seeing and currently is under rated. Besides the
clips of the movie is excellent. It is harding to contiune switching
between two time and spacing and not make audience feeling wired and
confused. But in this movie you can feel that it is natural and your
mind will completely goes with Billy. You will feel what he feels and
see what he sees. Again Ang Lee made it.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Ang Lee has a knack for packing a serious, emotional punch in
even the most quiet moments of a movie; and he does that again with
"Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk," a mostly quiet movie that
contemplates the craziness of war: started by the rich; fought by the
poor and young; the physical and emotional damage it does to the
soldiers and their families; the lies that are told to keep the war
effort going; the lip service that most civilians give to the soldiers
as life goes on as if there is no war happening, etc.

After his heroic actions during the second Iraqi war are captured on
video for all of America to see, Joe Alwyn (who plays the title role)
and his infantry squad are paraded throughout the U.S. to be used as
living propaganda for America's war against Iraq. On the last day of
their "vacation" in the U.S. before being shipped back to the war,
Alwyn's experiences in Iraq and his first days of coming home are told
in flashbacks. He clearly suffers from post traumatic stress disorder,
and he finds a way out of going back into combat duty thanks to his
loving and tenacious sister played by Kristen Stewart. But he must make
a tough decision whether to take care of himself and take the way out,
or take care of his squadmates and go back into combat with them.

My most memorable, movie moment of "Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk" is
the scene when a civilian starts making fun of soldiers during a
football game. One of Alwyn's squadmates puts the loudmouth in a
sleeper hold, silencing his big mouth in seconds.

Ang Lee does a great job with "BLLHW," focusing on Alwyn and allowing
the audience to see what this soldier has seen and what he is thinking.
I especially enjoyed the unpredictable nature of this movie, as it
could have gone in so many clichéd routes in the third act under the
guidance of untalented directors/producers/writers; but the filmmakers
chose to take the road less travelled, and produced a relatively quiet
ending that is still emotionally powerful.

Mannysmemorablemoviemoments
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know what to say bout this movie. It is a story which I agree
totally with, in his message. It is outrageous how the war vets are
treated when they come back. If they are not ignored, ostracized or
insulted - see for instance the Nam vets - they are used as tools,
puppets to make money, used by sharks who intend to make big, big money
at their own advantage over the poor soldiers. I agree with the message
of this film which denounces this. But it is too big, it is caricature
to me, too easy...See for instance Steve Martin, the ruthless and
disgusting business man who uses the vets. The way Ang Lee has to show
him - don't miss the takes on his eyes, shark eyes - made me sick, if I
had a gun, I would have shot at the screen to kill him. I would say
that is a didactic purpose. No nuance here, good guys again bad ones,
and this is a shame. Sidney Lumet would have given something different
from such a topic, no doubt about this.
