
You are probably not going to see this film for riveting story-lines
and in depth character studies. The RE series has about action and fun
sequences. Leaving aside all the ridiculous plot points and lazy screen
writing, the editing of this movie is going to become legendary for
it's awfulness.

I've never seen a full budgeted movie get hacked up so poorly that the
expensive action scenes are pretty much butchered to the max. This
movie needs to be studied in film school for how NOT to edit a movie.
Every single action is shot with countless shakes, moves, and camera
switches. A simple action of, say, putting away your knife, takes 3- 4
camera edits. I was counting them by 15 minutes in per shot. It was
insane. A fight sequence will be nothing but a countless series of
quick edits form close up, medium and far away shots mashed together so
it's impossible to follow what's going on. Shaky cam is one thing, but
this is shaky cam plus strobe effect editing. Every single punch or
shot requires 4-6 edits and quick cuts. It will give you a headache to
figure out what's happening in any fight or sequence. Even mundane
actions like people standing on top of a building looking down takes
5-6 edits and quick cuts? 

Bring the puke bag.

I guess they tried to film some neat locations and the costumes are
pretty and sets, but you wont even notice with the multiple edits
jarring your eyes.
<|_=00=_|>
Aside the nonsense plot, the total lack of logic and the poor script
that I could expect from a full action-based movie, there is this
filming style where the camera flies, rebound, shakes, zoom in and out
(so close that I can see the skin cells of alice and suddenly from 50
feets in the air) that makes the action scenes impossible to follow,
and the actions scenes are like the 99% of the movie so the movie is
unwatchable. The special effects seems good but it's hard to appreciate
them because it's a dark movie and again, the constant movement of the
cameras. The acting is not bad.

If a movie director is reading this please consider stop making that
thing with the cameras, the action can be exciting even with a fixed
plane, if you don't believe me play the first 3 resident evil games ;)
<|_=00=_|>
If a hamster with ADHD was fed nothing but cocaine and Red Bull for a
month and let loose in an editing room it would do a better job than
Paul W.S. Anderson. Someone should really introduce him to the concept
of shots not measured in milliseconds. I thought this seizure inducing
train wreck was banned. Oh, sorry, that was a Pokemon episode. Not sure
how I got confused, the Pokemon episode made more sense. But in all
seriousness, over the course of the entire Friday the 13th, Nightmare
on Elm Street and Halloween series the three slashers made fewer cuts
than Paul did in the first five minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
it is terrible no logic,story makes no f*****g sense and the best of
all the flippin epilepsy attack in every action scene i almost got a
heart attack for god's sake you can't see s**t because it goes by so
fast that i had to put it to slow motion sometimes to actually find out
what the hell is going on
<|_=00=_|>
It gave me motion sickness 20 minutes into the movie. Every action
sequence has 3-4-5 cuts every other second The camera is shaking even
when all the characters are static. While the quality diminished with
every new episode, I still hate to see such a disastrous ending to one
of my favorite franchises. This is sad.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw it in the theater the night it came out and it sucked really
really hard, and this has to be the one film I've ever regretted paying
money to see. 

The fight scenes are filled with nothing but jump cuts, so you can't
tell what's going on until said fight is over. The story makes no sense
from what they were going with from the fifth movie (In the last movie,
RE: Retribution, the red queen's trying to kill Alice along with the
rest of humanity. In this one, it turns out she's trying to SAVE
humanity, which directly conflicts with retribution's story.)
Seriously, Watch the other five movies first, preferably in one
sitting, and then watch this one. You'll see exactly what I mean when I
say it sucked.

The new people didn't even matter. They had time to bring in like a few
random new people, who die one by one as soon as they get into the
hive. They had Chris Redfield, Leon, Ada, Claire, and Becky, they could
have had these people survive (Oh yeah, it turns out they're all dead,
except for Claire, apparently and to make matters worse, they don't
even mention them except for a passing mention of Chris by Claire and
Alice then it's not talked about ever again.) and help Alice in her
mission, but instead we settle for a bunch of nobodies who got
introduced in the middle of the movie and then died like 30 minutes
later. These people didn't matter. Not even the one who turns out to be
an umbrella informant. And this is AFTER they built up that the people
from the last movie were going to play a significant role in the final
chapter.

They set up all this cool stuff in the 5th movie, that we could have
seen at the beginning of TFC and instead they chose to hand wave it.

Wesker barely did anything then he gets killed off in terrible way,
which they stress that the red queen can't kill umbrella employees,
despite the fact that she did in the first movie.

Also they pretty much retconned the first two movies. Originally the
red queen was modeled after Angela Ashford, and in this abomination, it
turns out the red queen was modeled after James Marcus' (From the
games) daughter, who turns out to be Alice's DNA template (shocker,
Alice was a clone the whole time!). Which brings me to my next point.
Also, they made it a huge plot point that the red queen can't kill
umbrella employees, and yet in the first movie she slaughtered everyone
in the hive except Matt and Alice.

The "Everyone is a damn clone" nonsense. They went hard with this after
extinction. Turns out the Dr. Isaacs we watched die in extinction, was
just a clone and it seems that he's leading three tank things that are
drawing zombies behind them, seems simple, right? Nope, turns out that
guy is a clone too. The real Dr Isaac was underneath raccoon city the
whole time.

OH AND THE ENDING! God the ending sucked too! They made a big deal
about how Alice would die if she released the antivirus, which is
apparently airborne now, into the air and that this was the final
chapter, but what happens? She tosses it to the ground and goes
unconscious for a bit but survives. They wussed out on a perfect end to
Alice's tale and cemented her as a true Mary sue character.

Just...If you're reading this Paul Anderson, You should have worked way
harder on this movie, because this movie is garbage. And I say that as
a fan of the other 5 movies. There was no reason for this to be this
terrible, I mean they even stopped showing it a week after it released
in my town, that's how bad it was.
<|_=00=_|>
*** This review may contain spoilers ***

Totally waste your time and money.

Paul W S Anderson think he is smart enough, using lot of stupid,
pointless & unnecessary action scenes to cover up the one page poor
script; Does it make the movie look exciting? Sorry! man! It doesn't
make the movie look exciting at all; in the matter of fact, It only
makes the movie bored to dead.

By just one small bottle of anti-virus, immediately kill off millions
of zombie in just one second? Are you kidding me? Come on, man! It is
totally stupid story arrangement! yap.. not to mention another stupid
arrangement such as meet up the old friend, and Oh! We have a betrayer!
It's so Boring!!!!

Alice come back to life again at the end, make her sacrifice totally a
joke. Paul W S Anderson keep the character alive, which means....? More
episode on the future..? Oh! God!
<|_=00=_|>
This is just some Paul Anderson cash grab, crap fest abomination that
carries Resident Evil title, features some zombies, loud music, gun
shots, explosions and one of the worst directing and editing I've ever
seen. Every scene in this movie, right from the start, is shot with
shaky camera and fast cuts.I don't know who thought that this approach
would make The Final chapter a better movie, because it made it the
worst, and hopefully the last under the supervision of Paul Anderson.
There was only one scene, one moment, where the glory of the real
Resident Evil showed some signs of life, but that scene was butchered
with amazingly awful editing that made my eyes hurt. What the hell
happened to you Paul? It seems the glory of Event Horizon will remain
the peak of his career. Now lets just hope they let Resident Evil rest
for some time before they reboot it with proper people behind the
camera, people who understand what RE is all about.
<|_=00=_|>
Alice (Milla Jovovich) emerges from the ruins of Washington DC and is
contacted by the Red Queen (Ever Anderson), who tells her of an
antidote to the T-Virus that is located under Raccoon City. Alice has
only 48 hours to find and release the antidote before the rest of
humanity is wiped out by the Umbrella Corporation, whose plan is to
repopulate the earth with the rich and the powerful, who are stored in
cryogenic suspension in The Hive.

I've always been a staunch supporter of the Resident Evil films,
finding them to be fun slices of slick action-packed horror, but that
support ends with The Final Chapter. Once again directed by Paul W.S.
Anderson, this supposed last instalment is an absolute mess, any
potential for enjoyment hindered by an extremely slight plot, even by
RE standards, and some of the worst direction and editing I have ever
experienced.

As far as content goes, the film is business as usual, with big
monsters, hordes of zombies, evil corporate types running the show, and
Milla being bad-ass, but with the camera shaking all over the place and
the majority of shots lasting for a fraction of a second, the action is
virtually impossible to follow, making the film more likely to result
in a headache than a thrill rush. And as if the wobbly cam/ADHD
approach wasn't bad enough, much of film takes place in poorly lit
locations, making it even harder to keep track of what is happening.

Despite being called The Final Chapter, the end of the film inevitably
leaves things open for further adventures for Alice. If Anderson does
intend to make more Resident Evil films, let us hope that he doesn't
continue in the same style.
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly a few points

1. A masterclass in how NOT to edit an action movie together, shaky cam
mixed with overly fast sequencing is enough to give you a headache or
at the very least go "wait whats happening right now?" it was just so
unnecessary and only went to further show the lack of directing ability
when it comes to actions scenes, if you cannot get a few second shot
during a fight and instead have to splice 100 half second shots
together just to get 50 seconds worth of a fight scene, then why even
bother?

2. The whole plot with wesker "wesker you are fired" so now the red
queen can take you out.... is so ripped off from robocop and has been
done to death, lazy writing.

3. And at the end... alice is told that they had to know she was
willing to give up her life for others, but honestly what a load of
nonsense, alice still could have released the antivirus to save others
whether she thought she would die or not, pointless plothole for the
sake of adding extra tension with the "oh but if alice does it, she
will die" then at the end "nope, you wont" its like the old "and they
woke up and lived happily ever after" ending so trivial.

Honestly, I didn't mind the first movie, but since then it has just
dragged on and on limping along with more wounds with each new movie,
this new one was purely to make a bit of cash off of those die hard
fans that love trash movie franchises, those that don't care about 1000
plot holes and just want to see something explode unrealistically and
see the same actress do all the same stuff over and over again that has
already been seen and done in the previous films, I would put this
franchise now on par with Underworld, just pointless drivel scripted
out in about an hour without any care whatsoever, childlike almost,
what is worse is that this film adds nothing to the overall series, its
just there for the sake of dragging it out further, would love for it
to finally just die off and maybe reboot it, different, with better
writers and directors but most of all acting, the lead actress almost
acts now like she couldn't care less about being there despite it being
the only real franchise that keeps her in work. I can enjoy bad films,
good films, great films, but I just cannot enjoy movies that feel like
they where slapped together in a made for TV movie style for the sake
of making some cash.
