
I have just watched this movie and it was a terrible disappointment. I
loved other Del Toro's movies, but this ones feels totally empty. The
film is a visual feast. Gorgeous locations, wonderfully lit serve as
the background for the tale. Fantastic shots and good acting would make
you think that this is a good movie. But it is not. The plot is so
cheap, that you can tell what is going to happen since the first frame.
The evil characters are so cartoonish that you can see their next
movements from miles away. The "good" character is so bland and
pathetic that you never have a real connection with her. In fact, as
you can see where the film goes from the beginning, this movie is a
total bore. Do not waste your time and watch "The Devil's Backbone"
instead.
<|_=00=_|>
Guillermo del Toro is a director and artist whose films fall into two
distinct categories: big budget English language blockbusters like
"Hellboy" and "Pacific Rim" and lesser known, low budget Spanish
language horror films like "Devil's Backbone" and "Pan's Labyrinth".
His latest film, "Crimson Peak" is what happens when these two worlds
collide, in other words, a big budget English language horror film.

"Crimson Peak" is set in the late 19th century, first in New York, then
in rural England. Edith Cushing (Mia Wasikowska) is a young budding
writer who is intelligent, beautiful, and strong willed, refusing to
allow Victorian sensibilities dictate what she can and cannot do, and
as a result butts heads with those around her. Thomas Sharpe (Tom
Hiddleston) is an English aristocrat and inventor who is in New York
seeking financial backing for his mechanized clay mining business back
home. When tragedy strikes, Thomas marries Edith and brings her to his
home, Allerdale Hall in Cumberland, where his sister Lucille Sharpe
(Jessica Chastain) is waiting. As Edith tries to fit into her new
surroundings, she discovers that secrets abound and nothing is as it
seems.

The visuals in "Crimson Peak" are so glorious, they are almost
overwhelming. The sets are spectacular visions of beauty and decadence
in decay; costumes are intricately detailed and gorgeous; the lighting
and over saturated color bring depth and meaning; the ghosts are
grotesquely beautiful; and, of course, the del Toro trademarks of
insects and clockwork gracefully found their way into the story as
well.

Because "Crimson Peak" is a rather large studio production, it is being
marketed to a large audience. I believe this accounts for some of the
lackluster reviews I have been reading. If one is not familiar with del
Toro's prior Spanish language films, they may not understand his unique
cinematic perspective. For some, this will mark the beginning of a
journey into del Toro's fantasy world, for others it will be a
disappointment. For me, it was almost everything I wanted it to be.
<|_=00=_|>
Do we need another Gothic horror from Guillermo del Toro after 'The
Devil's Backbone' and 'Pan's Labyrinth'? Depending on your answer to
that question, you may find yourself lapping up del Toro's latest or
feeling blasé about it.

Aside from the fact that there is a romance at its core, 'Crimson Peak'
feels very much a mishmash of over-familiar elements from del Toro's
previous films and other Victorian-era fiction, including the very
well-received Showtime drama series 'Penny Dreadful'. There is a
mouldering manse, an aristocratic family hiding a dark and terrible
past, and last but not least a young woman who enters both family and
house for the first time to discover that all is not well within its
crumbling walls. Because del Toro's idea of homage to the Hammer films
of the 1950s and 1960s is not by way of revisionism, his Gothic horror/
romance feels less refreshing than conventional  and that is
especially true of its story.

Set at the turn of the last century, it tells of the American heiress
Edith Cushing (Mia Wasikowska) who aspires to be an author in the vein
of Mary Shelley, much to the chagrin of her publisher as well as her
self-made industrial magnate of a father (Jim Beaver). Though her
father wishes for her to marry the childhood-friend-
turned-handsome-optometrist Alan McMichael (Charlie Hunnam), Edith
finds herself falling for the British baronet Sir Thomas Sharpe (Tom
Hiddleston). Thomas is visiting with his older sister Lady Lucille
(Jessica Chastain) to seek funding from Edith's father for his 'clay
harvester', though the latter rebuffs both his invention as well as his
Old World status of privilege.

Del Toro, who scripted the film with veteran writer Matthew Robbins,
takes his time letting Edith and Thomas fall in love with each other,
but because the filmmaker is no specialist when it comes to affairs of
the heart, the romance is largely stilted and bordering on cheese. It
takes no less than an hour before we finally arrive at the titular
haunted house, so named because the clay Thomas mines from the ground
below the family property is blood-red and taints both the snow as well
as the sunken floorboards. But the crimson is just one aspect of the
gorgeous production design which we have come to expect no less of from
the Spanish maestro; from the architecture to the stone pillars and
arches to the moth-lined walls, del Toro's imagination and attention to
detail is palpable in every frame.

Sans two brief sequences in which Edith's late mother returns as a
black wraith with an ominous warning, the rest of the haunting takes
place within the creaky, creepy confines of Allerdale Hall. Maybe it is
because the recent bumper crop of haunted house movies have steeled our
nerves, but horror aficionados are unlikely to find the ghostly
inhabitants that del Toro conjures jolting, notwithstanding his attempt
to build genuine atmosphere through a mixture of quiet anticipation and
sudden sound cues. Del Toro's tendencies towards the fantastical also
mean that the apparitions are less terrifying than intriguing,
consisting largely of skeletal ghouls drenched in some sticky red
substance.

Yet a more fundamental issue is the role that these supernatural
entities play in the context of the story, which contrary to what you
may expect, is much less substantial. Besides rousing Edith from her
sleep in the middle of the night to lead her on a tour of the house's
dark corridors and dank basement, these ghosts of Thomas' past are no
more than sideshows to the central plot that has something to do with
the sizeable family fortune Edith has been bequeathed following the
sudden death of her father which Thomas and/or Lucille may have
something to do with (and you probably already know the answer to
that). Though it may seem at first that these spirits are trying to
protect Edith, that assumption is pretty much laid to rest by the time
Edith is in real peril, with the actual danger being (shall we say)
more earthly.

That shouldn't come as a surprise to those familiar with del Toro's
works. If there is one thing we've learnt, it is that ghosts exist due
to attachment to place or emotion, and while frightening in and of
themselves, are really not the evil we should be afraid so; instead,
what we should be afraid of is the evil which exists in the heart of
man, be it greed, lust or envy, each one of which Edith comes to
discover within the human companions in the haunted mansion. As
admirable a philosophy that may be, it does mean that the story unfolds
in largely predictable fashion, which isn't helped by a dearth of any
supernatural presence in the third and final act.

Indeed, there is no shaking off the feeling that there is something
awfully generic about the story as well as the characters. In fact, the
same can be said of most of the elements of 'Crimson Peak', which like
we said at the start, seems as if it were cobbled from tropes and
clichés of the Gothic horror romance genre  and the fact that del Toro
has put them to more effective service in his earlier films doesn't
help. The style is quintessential del Toro, lush and sumptuous in both
mood and visuals, but there is something hollow about the substance
within. Depending on how much you like a retread over familiar
territory, you'll either love his latest or find it just a tad
underwhelming.
<|_=00=_|>
I only saw this film because I am a del Toro fan--Pan's Labyrinth is my
favorite movie. While Crimson Peak does not come anywhere near the
quality of Labyrinth in terms of the script, it still showcases del
Toro's unique skill for beauty and suspense.

The sets, costumes and general atmosphere are sumptuous in that
signature del Toro way. The luxurious train on the heroine's robe that
audibly thumps behind her as she sweeps down the staircase? Yes,
please. There is a nod to all the images our minds ever conjured while
reading fairy tales. The rich colors, the music, the textures all help
draw us in to this world and settle us in for the story.

The film is not without its flaws. There are a few glaring plot
contrivances that had me groaning. There is a superficial quality to
the scenes involving Thomas Sharpe's clay mining business.

I was impressed with Jessica Chastain's talent for conveying two
conflicting emotions at once, all playing out on her face, reminiscent
of Gillian Anderson in Bleak House.
<|_=00=_|>
"Crimson Peak" has much to recommend it. Its cast is spot on, its
costume design and set are beautiful and spooky. The story itself
doesn't really go for the cheap thrills that most horror today goes
for, and I appreciate that.

Mia Wasikowska and Tom Hiddleston have a fantastic chemistry and you
readily fall in love with the love story they present you, but the real
jewel of the film is Jessica Chastain. As soon as she walks on screen
you know something wicked this way comes. Her piercing glare and
overall sense of distaste for the other characters really unease's you
in the most fun way. You can see little to no sympathy in her face and
you cannot wait to see just where she'll go with it.

The story starts off as pleasantly as any period piece and you wonder
what the ghouls and ghosts are up to, and whether they are in cahoots
with Hiddleston and Chastain. Unfortunately by the second half, the
movie looses some of its spook and becomes somewhat predictable in
plot, but because of this you will be able to watch it over and over
again without ever really getting bored. This is because the horror
isn't the selling point of the story, the heart of the characters are.
And each character has more heart than they could possibly know what to
do with. 

The acting is superb and although this story has been told in one way
or another, you still root for a positive outcome. Guillermo del Toro
creates yet another masterpiece of film. I fully enjoyed it. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Having been a fan of Guillermo Del Toro for some time now, I had
expected 'Crimson Peak' to be his next great masterpiece. Although the
film didn't meet my expectations, I can't say that it disappointed them
either.

Near the end of the 18th century, aspiring author Edith Cushing
(Wasikowska) meets a struggling inventor by the name of Thomas Sharpe
(Hiddleston). The two quickly fall in love and move into Sharpe's
dilapidating mansion - which is also inhabited by Thomas' sister,
Lucille (Chastain). Once there, Edith slowly realizes that not
everything is what it seems and decides to dig deeper, in spite of the
growing dangers.

First, 'Crimson Peak' is not a horror film; it is a 'gothic romance'
(with some horror elements thrown into the mix). The genre hasn't been
visited upon for decades, yet Del Toro does a fine job of offering his
own take on it. The film also contains plenty of blood and gore - so if
you don't have a stomach for that kind of stuff, your chances of
finishing this film are nil (for there are far more disturbing
aspects).

The story constantly switches in tone. I get that its a 'gothic
romance' (two genres that can't be any further apart from each other),
but it can get confusing for some people very quickly. One scene might
seem like it was from a romantic period film while the next might seem
like something out of a thriller! I think Del Toro and Robbins did a
fine job of balancing the pacing, but they could have certainly tweaked
a few things and cut the runtime down by an extra ten or fifteen
minutes.

That being said, the plot is pretty straightforward - up until the last
third of the film. Again, there are some disturbing details that both
Edith and the audience discover. It took me some time to connect
certain things, but I eventually figured out the bigger picture.
Nevertheless, the very nature of this film will undoubtedly shock you -
and will do it in a way that no other film released this year has.

Both Wasikowska and Hiddleston give good performances, but Chastain is
the standout. Her role as a cold-hearted, manipulative aristocrat is
done with sheer excellence; you can't help but suspect of her
something. She allures your attention with her mysterious persona, yet
you can't help but hate her for who she truly is.

Just like in any other Del Toro film, the visuals in this film are
amazing. This time, instead of the visual effects (like in 'Pacific
Rim'), the main focus is on the production design and costume design.
Every set, prop, and article of clothing not only have their own unique
design but are also very telling of a scene's or character's given mood
(now that's some good attention to detail). I would honestly be shocked
if this film wasn't nominated for Best Prod. Design nor Best Costume
(although I also wouldn't be surprised as the Academy usually forgets
about films like these).

Despite its narrative problems, 'Crimson Peak' is a grand visual
experience that needs to be seen on the big screen (notwithstanding the
blood and gore). Del Toro's directing has not faltered one bit, and he
truly has come up with an original concept that we haven't seen in a
very long time. And although I didn't completely fall in love with this
film, I will say I'm glad I watched it in theatres.

My actual rating for this film is 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Del Toro's movie was just like Edith's book in the film. It needed more
real romance, not some weird contrived romance that never felt real at
all in any facet...and just missing something despite a lot of
potential. So much wasted potential.

I am very disappointed by this film. I was looking forward to something
with Del Toro (as well as Hiddleston) for some time. While I'm not
generally a fan of much horror I do tend to like Gothic romance. I feel
that this story started out delivering all of that.

I love the cinematography, the staging, and the costumes. Everything
was gloriously detailed and lovely. I really enjoyed the amount of
effort that went into the pictures as they were made. Sadly, the plot
starts wonderfully and is even a bit surprising but then it falls flat
and doesn't get up again. I'm not sure if parts were just a result of
poor editing, or if it was planned to become dull after the trio move
to England.

The opening was really inviting, there was a lot of promise in the
plot. Some of the hints for the future were a little obvious in my
opinion but others were less so. I feel like the director must have
been trying to insult people that like romance because there was
incredibly little. There were a few lines that didn't feel all that
romantic and instead felt a little more like bad smut novel lines. 

Once you get to England and the haunted house things just get weird.
Half the time no one is around as Edith wanders about discovering all
the murders that the siblings were up to. Edith is almost always left
to her own devices while Thomas works on his red clay machine and his
sister...plays the piano and I dunno...sharpens her knives? I guess
they must have been off practicing the 'incest is best' mentality
almost all of the time - to include the middle of the night. Why does
she never ask her husband why he is never actually in bed with her? Is
this for the same reason none of his marriages have been consummated
without any questions? A tradition followed by law to this day. She
just assumes all husbands don't want their wives? What? This was the
first of many glaring issues.

Why is the heroine first depicted as incredibly clever, self-reliant,
and capable in the first half of the film? (Before they arrive at the
crumbling manor - I now take this to be a symbol for what is about to
happen to the movie.) All of these aspects sort of fall apart when she
ignores all manner of clues despite previously noticing small details.
When she, even though she has the money, just goes along with living in
the estate at all when all logic dictates to not...yeah, well there
goes a reasonably intelligent main character. Damn, we had one for the
first half.

Then suddenly he does have sex with her the night they're in town? Why?
It was just ill-timed, forced, and awkward, not romantic. I think Del
Toro just figured he'd sell the movie more if he added a bizarre
Hiddleston sex scene.

From the first scene with both siblings I knew they were shagging. It's
not like it's a new theme for Del Toro. He's done it before. (Hellboy
2) It was overtly predictable and boring. Which leads me to believe he
must have had some pretty unhealthy thoughts about his own sister. 

Thomas as a character felt worthless. Never was I convinced he actually
loved Edith, I think he just really wanted to love her and wanted her
as an escape from his abusive sister. I didn't feel bad for anyone.
Thomas was a coward, that was pretty obvious and clear from the get go.
Edith would have been good if she hadn't suddenly turned into a retard
instead of seeking real help.

The ending bothered me the most. The order of it was just all over the
place. Thomas was bumbling about like the imbecile he is. He doesn't
come to really mean much of anything. Edith saves herself and he just
wanders in to his sister's lair. He might as well have just stabbed
himself in the face and saved everyone else the trouble of his
existence. His presence might have meant something if he would have
walked in to declare that this wasn't okay and that he was going to let
Edith go or that they'd live together or something in his crazy head
BEFORE Edith had already saved herself. But since Edith had already
seemingly stabbed the bitch in the heart (a lot of that pen went pretty
deep) it wasn't really meaningful. That plot arrangement was just as
pointless as the character, Thomas.

Then crazy sister goes on a merry chase when she's been stabbed heavily
near her heart. Cause you know, she wouldn't be bleeding to death or
anything...evil people don't bleed, just not totally horrible ones.
Then finally Edith doesn't get any real help from Thomas' ghost other
than to function as the oldest trick in the book: 'hey look over
there!' before she smashes in evil sister's head. Wow really? Worst
ending I've seen in a long time. If at least he would have intervened
before Edith saved herself then it might have had an ounce of feeling,
but this was just poorly put together. So incredibly hollow, I'm sad
good acting was wasted on that.
<|_=00=_|>
Crimson is "of a rich deep red color inclining to purple". It's a color
of passionate love, seduction, violence, danger, anger, and adventure -
all of which are contained in Del Toro's latest film, Crimson Peak.

Guillermo del Toro is no stranger to adding detailed elements in a film
to add depth, subtle or not. In Crimson Peak, his use of color and
setting accompany the characters in a dark Gothic tale of love and
deceit, with a sprinkle of suspense and gore that take the viewer on an
enchanting experience. 

Rich color tones stylize the film for a gritty and unique ambiance.
Edith, the main heroine, lives in a world where everything is dull and
dark. But her presence, however, is evident in subdued yellows, greens,
and neutral colors as she stands out in the world she resides in. Her
pale skin and light hair also attribute to the innocence that she
attains.

The story itself takes the viewer down a dark path, following the love
between two people from two different worlds. Del Toro was smart with
the balance of action and build up. For just a brief time did the story
feel slow, but it later facets to the build up of later scenes. 

Although this film wasn't as thrilling as I tend to prefer, it did a
beautiful job of telling a dark love story that held hints of violence,
making it just as enjoyable. 

I couldn't help but feel that Del Toro paid homage to some of the
classics, such as The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari, Nosferatu, and even his
own Pans Labyrinth and Mama with his use of transitions, shadows,
symbolism, and sound.

If you're looking for a film that is romantic with a dredge of somber,
makes you uncomfortable yet hopeful, leaves you heartbroken but still
enamored - all while being visually breathtaking, then Crimson Peak
should be at the top of your list.
<|_=00=_|>
What a disappointing movie. It starts promising - a few motives,
characters, conflicts, sumptuous period detail (if all a little "clean"
and theatrical if you know what I mean - everyone with perfect teeth
and makeup and speaking like a thoughtful scriptwriter). Then gradually
you realise that everything that is glaringly obvious and predictable
IS actually what is happening - and its a long, painful process
watching it play out just as you expect it to. There's nothing to make
you go "ah! That's interesting!" whatsoever. The ghosts look incredibly
CGI and therefore not scary at all, but more to the point they had
absolutely no point or function - clearly just shoehorned in (perhaps
after the original draft?) as a way to make it "horror" and more
marketable to the teenage market. Jessica Chastain is always watchable,
and the film looks pretty colourful, but that's about it.
<|_=00=_|>
Just for the record, i'm not a fan of horror movies. The only reason i
watched Crimson Peak was the director: Guillermo Del Toro. His previous
movies showed that he is a genius whose mind is filled with creativity,
moreover he is able to turn his visions into reality. He has a great
sense to create unique worlds and his ability to balance CGI and
practical effects makes these worlds more existing.

I was terrified and amazed at the same time. Visually this movie is
unexceptional, i wanted to carefully examine every piece of it, but the
scary theme didn't "allow" me to immerse deep in this visual beauty for
too long. The tension was built up well and constant fear of the
unknown was in the air all the time. Music was a very good "wingman" of
the thrill and well-timed sound effects added even more to the overall
experience.

Many famous trademarks of Del Toro were smuggled into the events
successfully. The sets, make ups, costumes looked amazing, but (for me)
the most impressing was the creative use of colours. The external and
internal design of the house ensured a perfect environment for the
creepy atmosphere. This atmosphere was the major element that
captivated me from the beginning till the end. That thrill that carried
me through the movie is hard to describe. I was under the influence of
fear and anxiety, so all elements were in the right place to make your
heart beat faster.

Tom Hiddleston and Mia Wasikowska were great, but Jessica Chastain was
clearly the one who almost stole the whole show. Her character was
cold, seductive, mysterious and scary at the same time. I couldn't even
decide whether to love or hate her.

All in all, Crimson Peak is another masterpiece of Del Toro. I
recommend this movie even for those who don't like horror movies,
because this is one of the few that offers much more than jump scares
and unimaginative stories.
