
Ajith once again has proved himself in this most awaited movie of this
year.Director Vishnuvardhan, Subha and editor Sreekar Prasad have to be
applauded for their interesting script and editing that keep the
audiences hooked to their seats throughout the movie. 

Ajith's screen presence is mighty as ever, and his classy salt and
pepper looks and colorful V neck T shirts suit his character very well.
The stunt choreographers, Jegan, Kecha and Lee Whittaker, take the
credit for the numerous action set pieces and it is slam bang all the
way. The entire crowd watching the movie rises to clap when Ajith dives
out of a van onto an approaching car and zooms around in a Ducati.
Ajiths gesture and shades delight the audiences throughout the movie.

Rana's portion in second half along with Ajith is a highlight and is
sure to grip the audience.Arya is energetic and spunky as ever and has
done his part well. Kishore as the honest cop has done his job very
well and receive applauds for his performance in the climax.

Yuvan's work on the BGM has added enough muscle to the tension and
action in the movie with his score.

Om Prakash's work on the camera makes Aarambam as a slick and glossy
commercial action entertainer.

On the whole Aarambam is a perfect treat for all Ajith fans and to the
general public.

Let's make this simple ... Ajith's mission continues. MY rating will be
10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this movie with my husband whose an awesome die hard fan of
Ajith, which dragged my interest to watch this movie and i would say it
has been a pleasure watching it. Ajith's charismatic look and his
stylish screen presence has been simply gripping.

For the much hype created by media it really lives up to the
expectations and is a satisfying thrill ride. Arya is a charm, as the
happy-go-lucky guy and hilarious effort in college with Nayan is a
rocker. Om Prakash has canned every frame with passion.

Music didn't go satisfying for a bump, could have been better.

Simple, elegant and class -- Ajith show all the way

I am ready for the next one.
<|_=00=_|>
CAST

ARRAMBAM a blockbuster script with mass crowd puller Thala,attractive
Arya.I think Vishnuvardhan made this movie in full cool with confident
and made this movie a big Blockbuster . Garenty that a big action sorry
stylish Action of Ajith,Fun of Arya,rude action of
Nayanthara,Attractive Tapsee and om Prakash cinematography capturing
perfectly every thing.

STORY

The story star starts with Thala bombing various building in Mumbai
city who comes out like a terrorist then it is carried out by Arya who
is a Hacker.college comedy of Arya as a Fat boy worked out. Ultimate
makes Arya to do his jobs in a gun point. unsatisfied Arya traps Ajith
to Mumbai police are the first half with good flow.Then stars the
second half which decides the ARRAMBAM as a blockbuster 

WATCH OUT

There are plenty of Scene which makes us to go for the movie for second
time.The opening of Thala was normal,the notable thing is Thala dance
in first song where a man with these many operation,accident had made
it with full energy(great).Thala boat ride "can any hero in Tolly,Bolly
even Holly"repeat it today even young Sixpacked hero's says i cant risk
my life for a bike ride with rope all over their body you may say Thala
is a race so he may do it then u must be accepting the fact that "he is
a fearless mass hero".In one scene When the Ducati bike was shown the
whole crowd went up but it was a normal ride like other hero's even
though the whole crowd went up till the end only because it is Thala.

Director loved Thala Soo Soo mush he brought every thing out of him but
with 4 to 5 risk scene which was "Marana Mass" I thought how could
Thala do it "Thala has every thing money good wife and family" but
takes a risk shot does every thing for fans but do not want to have a
fan followers.What is this Thala? Every day fans will be increasing for
u Thala But we doesn't want you to risk too mush.

Cinema Psychos 

Not only because of Thala the story made with every other character is
also engaging. Tapsee was top in acting.There was more Editing mistakes
and even the rerecording in some scenes were too bad.For those who want
to learn from movie you can learn how to engage the crowds and the
beautiful CG work in song and in action scene.Other than that this is a
normal Blockbuster movie which comes out every year for nearly a Decade
which has no formula why it is Hit.You would be the only persons in
theater thinking that am i sitting in a Blockbuster movie.This movie is
only for Public 

ARRAMBAM is a movie which cannot be stopped from its Blockbuster.But it
is not the new beginning For THALA,Vishnuvardhan or TAMIL CINEMA.
<|_=00=_|>
Vishnuvardhan is one of the very few directors who knows how to extract
the best from Ajith and what exactly people like in him. He has written
the screenplay accordingly and given plenty of scope for Ajith to
impress the audience. All the little mannerisms, the 'Ducati' bike
ride, racy boat chase sequence and the climax dialogue are few
examples. Dialogue writers Subha have kept the dialogues really simple
and catchy. Kudos to Vishnuvardhan for touching up on the Mumbai
terrorist attacks and it looks like a little tribute for the fighters
who lost their lives during that attack.

On the flip side, the flashback sequence in the second half drags a
little. But, once the flashback ends, the movie moves at an intense
pace and ends on a high.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the biggest movie events of the year was unveiled for the
public's viewing pleasure today morning. Arrambam, directed by
Vishnuvardhan, has a lot going for it and has it satiated the appetite
of countless Ajith fanatics? Right from frame one, it is clear that
Ashok Kumar (Ajith) is a man on a mission and one who is hell bent on
exposing the people behind an ugly scam and bringing them to book. He
has his comrades who will go to any lengths for him and help him in his
operation.

Director Vishnuvardhan, writer duo Subha and editor Sreekar Prasad have
to be commended for managing to keep the audiences hooked to their
seats for a majority of the movie with very few drag moments. With a
running time of more than two and a half hours, the screenplay is taut
and crisp enough to keep the crowd arrested.

The large mass of Ajith fans have plenty of moments to scream and
whistle in delight. Ajith's screen presence is mighty as ever, and his
classy salt and pepper looks and V neck T shirts suit his character's
mean streak. The star's prowess at stunts and his knack of taking risks
for the stunt scenes is all too well-known and when he dives out of a
van onto an approaching car and zooms around in a Ducati, the entire
crowd rises in unison to clap. Even some of Ajith's subtle gestures,
his gait and his typical shades delight his fans. #behimdwoods.
<|_=00=_|>
Thala Ajith Starrer Aarambam Released on 31st Octber Created an hype in
First Day Iself.... The King of Opening Once again Proved it Just By
the Reservation itself, It is Expected to Broke The Previous Box Office
Records of Tamil Movies Thala Ajith Back in his salt and pepper look,
he exudes charm throughout the film. Thanks to director Vishnuvardhan
and costume designer Anu Vishnuvardhan,Thala's costumes have been
carefully chosen to make him look stunning. There are plenty of scenes
in which Ajith would make the audience go crazy. The way he says
'Tok..Tok..Tok..Tok' and the way he stares at an officer for holding
his hand bring deafening response from the audience. Thala's Littke
Mannerism is Shown Well By The Director...

Arya has a little serious role in the film, which he pulls off in his
own light-hearted manner. He does provide some giggles now and then
with his dialogue delivery. Among the leading ladies, Nayanthara has a
meatier role and she has lapped up the opportunity well. Taapsee has
limited scope, but she does not hinder the proceedings. Rana shines in
his cameo performance in the second half. Supporting actors like
Kishore, Atul Kulkarni and Krishna fit into their roles neatly. Even
though Yuvan can't make brilliance in Background Music he doesn't spoil
it......

Direct Vishnuvardhan does an excellent job by providing a Social
message in Action/Thriller mass entertainer.....Thanks to Vishnuvardhan
for touching up on the Mumbai terrorist attacks and it looks like a
little tribute for the fighters who lost their lives during that
attack... First half is SPEEDY than Second Half..... This movie is an
Entertainer better do not expect logic in some areas where the director
failed JUST IN SOME CASES... Dialogue writers Subha have kept the
dialogues really simple and catchy. This Movie is a Definite Visual
Treat for "THALA VERIYANS" TO MAKE IT SIMPLE:-- Aarambam Is Must Watch
Movie With Friends IN Theater.....
<|_=00=_|>
After Mankatha ajith has come back up with a blockbuster... Ist half is
too speed and racy,second half quite quite lags compared to first half
but over all the movie is too good. It can be enjoyed by all the
audience, I don't know why few social websites are writing their
reviews against the move. Yuvan could have done better BGM. Ajith's
screen is excellent and dialogue delivery is excellent.

Arya,Nayantara have done their best

The movie is released 500 screens across the TN but getting ticket is
too difficult

I loved the movie for the fast screenplay and ajith's screen presence

Thala Diwali
<|_=00=_|>
Aarambamï»¿ is a cool movie. Salt and Pepper look worked out for Thala
again. Not sure why negative comments floating around in some social
networking sites. Yuvan's Billa kinda music is missing, still BGM is
OK. Arya and Tapsee played comedian role here without including a
specialist. Arya insulting Thala at certain places could have been
avoided, Thala fans are getting angry.:) Story moved at good pace
revolving around the storyline. All necessary ingredients were put
well. Even-though old story, it has been delivered well by the director
and Hero. Great enjoyment for Diwali. Happy Thala Diwali..!!

Just make it simple - tic toc

Overall rating :- 3.75/5
<|_=00=_|>
Yet again, Ajith delivers an action film that satisfies all his fans,
however will general & neutral moviegoers enjoy it? I am probably a bit
biased but I would say that film thrilled in parts but lagged at many
points. 

Ajith Kumar is once again at his best, playing a role tailor made for
him with shades of grey. The first shot of him saw the whole cinema
reverberate in loud whistles and claps (and this was in TGV KLCC @
11:30am mind you). He excels in all areas that you expect him to.
Action sequences are top notch & his dialogue delivery is flawless and
impactful. His salt-and-pepper look, 5 O'Clock shadow beard, shades and
wardrobe suited him to a tee. 

Nayantara meanwhile is revelation, playing an action heroine role with
ease. Is there any other South actress who is so apt with hand-to-hand
combat or a gunfight and yet look so ravishing while at it? I doubt it.
Her dressing style in the film is very different to what we see of
heroines in Tamil films. Big props to costume designer Anu Vardhan for
Ajith's, Arya's & especially Nayan's look in the film.

Arya is his usual comic self and carried his role well. However, his
love scenes with Taapsee were not very interesting and probably
hampered the film a bit. The rest of the starcast did their parts well,
especially Kishore, Atul Kulkarni & Rana Daggupati. Special mention to
Mahesh Manjrekar, as the Marathi director/actor does extremely well as
a villain, plus he also dubbed in his own voice which is a rarity
nowadays (among non Tamil actors)

Technically, the cinematography by Om Prakash & Sreekar Prasad's
editing were the plus points. All the stunt sequences were also well
choreographed and shot. Vishnuvardhan's direction was par for the
course, however writing duo SuBa will have to stop "rebottling old wine
in a new bottle". There is nothing new in the lead pair's motives to
their actions in the film. Screenplay was racy enough but I sure wish
that there were no songs at all (well maybe apart from the opening song
) as it would have had a smoother feel to it. 

The biggest minus point though is surprisingly Yuvan's BGM. He lets
down the film at many points with a very mediocre score. The VFX is
also very cartoony for what is for all intents & purposes a high budget
film. There are also several plot holes in the film whereby deus ex
machina is used as a plot device for several scenes.

On the whole, Arrambam is a very watchable action flick, with the
climax being racy & action packed. It meets the expectations of the
Thala fan in me, but an unbiased opinion would be that it could have
been much better.

So, one thing I have learned after watching his last two movies is that
I really need tone down my expectations. It does seem that Thala Ajith
is stuck in an average run of films. With Veeram not really stoking my
fires, I really do hope he gets a really good film soon.

Final rating: 7/10 - Old wine in a new bottle
<|_=00=_|>
Cast : Ajithkumar, Arya, Nayanthara, Kishore, Taapsee, Rana etc.,

Cinematography : Omprakash

Music and BG Score: Yuvan Shankar Raja

Editing: Sreekar Prasad

Story, Screenplay and Direction by : Vishnuvardhan

Positives : Â Ajith Kumar Â Nayanthara Â Cinematography Â Songs Â BG

Negatives : Â Second half Â Choreography

First Half was very racy but the second half was dragging.. A stylish
Movie from the team.. Though movie is not like the previous Billa and
Mangatha.. #Arrambam has all the necessary elements to succeed in the
Diwali race 

On the Whole #Arrambam is a watchable movie for neutrals and a treat of
Ajith Fans..
