
You get the best actor to play Pablo Escobar. Then because for some
reason the writer didn't feel that Pablo's life was interesting enough
they make up a weird love story with a fictional character reminiscent
of the character in the last King of Scotland.

This movie did not have to be like this. When I heard that Benicio was
signed on to play Pablo Escobar I was excited. From his early
beginnings stealing tombstones to his death on the rooftops of a
Colombian city, his life was interesting enough. Why did we just waste
probably one of the few chances will ever get to make a proper movie
about Pablo with this?

I'm very disappointed, I have no issues with the actor's performances,
but Josh's character did not belong in this movie. Is this a bad movie?

It is if you're expecting a true story about Pablo. I guess if you
going to watch it, enjoy the performances and hopefully try to get over
the fact that this did not happen.
<|_=00=_|>
Pablo Escobar the most powerful drug lords in human history.

This movies gives you an insight to how he would have been viewed by
his family, associates and of course the public of Columbia.

You'll find that life is cheap, trust is thin and power is everything. 

It also leaves you with a questions.. 

Is the wealth, power and money worth the sacrifice of family,
simplicity and freedom?

Would recommend you make your own opinion of this movie, personally I
found it enthralling and couldn't look away.. 

If this review helped, please leave a like or what have you. 

Cheers, Thomas Lyons
<|_=00=_|>
First thing I have to say about the movie: Benicio Del Toro. Although I
am not a big fan of him, this movie shines with his charisma. Great
performance from the first scene to the last.

Although the movie is about the clash between a mafia leader and his
niece's boyfriend, there are several subtexts that can be pulled out.
One of them is the love around this drug dealer by the fellow People of
his country. He starts a fight against the government and he gets as
many supporters as the legal side; maybe even more.

Josh Hutcherson gives us hope for the future movies with his great
talent despite his moderate outlook. Throughout the movie you can't
stop looking at amazingly beautiful Maria (Claudia Traisac) and I can't
say these two both are the perfect match.

A few words for the director,Andrea Di Stefano; this is a very
impressive story-telling for a first movie. I believe we'll hear more
about him very soon.
<|_=00=_|>
After watching a movie like 'Blow' (about George Jung) or Goodfellas
(about Henry Hill) this movie seemed horribly irrelevant from Escobar's
life. The movie, and plot, are both excellent but the main focus is not
Escobar himself, and his story was not fully told but rather a story of
this white dude who becomes friends with him and gets in trouble.

I think this would have made a great movie if it didn't have the title
of "Escobar" because it really isn't a movie about him. Escobar
(character) appeared in many other great movies but wasn't the main
focus, and that worked. This title, however, is unfair because now this
movie will be the main one about Escobar while it shows nothing of him.

Hats off to Benicio del Toro, another solid performance!
<|_=00=_|>
Pablo Escobar, like other notorious criminals before him, was revered
and loved by the common man in Colombia. He built schools, clinics and
churches in their communities. He took care of "problems". He was a
(seemingly) loving husband, father, and in this movie, an uncle who
could do no wrong by his niece, Maria. Imagine her boyfriend Nick's
(Josh Hutcherson's) surprise then when he finds out that dear, sweet
Uncle Pablo is in fact a ruthless and deadly cocaine kingpin.

There wasn't much I didn't like about this movie. First-time feature
director and writer, Andrea Di Stefano, offers up a solid script, which
he told the TIFF audience is part fact, part fiction. He lets Del Toro
weave his magic as Pablo (was the guy born to play the role, or what?),
but he also lets Hutcherson do his thing. Both give great performances
without straying over-the-top, which they could very well have done
with roles like these.

I think I was concerned that the movie would evolve quickly into a
cheesefest and it never did. The action is good and the plot is highly
plausible and well-paced.

This is NOT an Escobar biopic. It is a really well-told story in which
Escobar plays a central role. I hope North American audiences will be
able to get past the subtitles and give this film a shot - no pun
intended.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the rather stupid movie title, Escobar: Paradise Lost is a damn
good film. It's very suspenseful and realistic. The only implausibility
in it is that the Canadians who set up shop on a beach in Colombia are
so whimpy. I doubt anyone as whimpy as these characters would have the
guts to leap right into the middle of a jungle ruled by cocaine cartels
like that. But luckily the two whimpiest of them don't have a lot of
screen time and the main protagonist, who starts out pretty whimpy and
who falls in love with Escobar's niece, while always giving surprised
and stand-offish looks to the goings on around her that should have
raised everyone's suspicion right from the starts, slowly progresses
into kind of a bad-ass by the end; and although it's no trek through
FarCry 3, his transformation from a helpless victim into someone who
finally stands up for himself has a great momentum that pays off in the
end. Benicio del Toro is nothing short of superb as Escobar, ominously
talking in riddles behind which are his murderous intentions. The
cinematography is also superb, giving this film a similar feel to any
number of classic gangster films. But the best part of this film is
that it skips all the Hollywood clichés. There's no happy ending for
anyone. It's as pessimistic as The Counselor. Nobody is spared the
cruelty, not even the children. There's no walking away into the sunset
to live happily ever after. It's the real deal, a portrait of what
happens when evil gains ultimate power and convinces itself that it is
good.
<|_=00=_|>
Pablo Escobar (1949-1993) was a notorious drug trafficker and leader of
Columbia's infamous Medellin drug cartel. He dealt exclusively in
cocaine, starting in the mid-1970s. At the height of his power, his
cartel controlled 80% of the world's cocaine, smuggling fifteen tons
per day, and Escobar himself had an estimated net worth of $30 billion.
He maintained his power and his freedom by either bribing or killing
his enemies, including those in law enforcement and politics. He also
enjoyed the loyalty and support of the mostly poor people in western
Columbia who benefited from the many community service projects he
funded.

In spite of his personal popularity and the strength of his criminal
empire, the authorities were closing in when he made a deal with the
government in 1991 to surrender himself in exchange for a light
sentence in a luxurious prison. Escobar continued his criminal
activities from "jail" and ended up escaping after just over a year
behind bars. After a year and a half on the run, a U.S.-trained task
force of Columbian police found Escobar, shooting and killing him as he
tried to get away. Now, imagine marrying into Pablo Escobar's family
when it seemed the world was his. That's the story in "Escobar:
Paradise Lost" (R, 2:00).

Josh Hutcherson (Peeta in "The Hunger Games") stars as Nick Brady, a
young man from Canada who follows his older brother to Columbia with
dreams of living on the beach. While working as a surfing instructor,
he meets a beautiful young woman named Maria (Claudia Traisac) as in
Maria Escobar. By the time Nick learns that Pablo Escobar (Benicio Del
Toro) is Maria's uncle, Nick has fallen for her. She knows what her
uncle does, but talks about it as if he's just an important businessman
who exports their country's most popular product. She doesn't seem to
understand the full extent of her uncle's power and brutality and Nick
only gradually comes to his own understanding of who "El Patron" really
is.

Nick marries Maria and is welcomed into the Escobar family with open
arms. The couple even moves on to Uncle Pablo's estate. Nick's brother,
Dylan (Brady Corbet) and his wife Anne (Ana Girardot), who have a new
baby and another one on the way, become very worried for Nick  and for
themselves. But Maria isn't like the rest of her family and she is all
Nick really cares about. Eventually, even Nick and Maria see that they
should be joining Dylan and Anne in leaving the country, but by then,
audience members have to ask themselves if it's too late.

Most of the film's action takes place in the final couple of days
before Escobar surrenders to authorities to begin his prison term.
Before he goes away, he has a plan to safeguard his vast wealth and he
asks for help from Nick, whom he appears to hold in very high regard.
Pablo gives Nick a series of very specific instructions to carry out,
which includes asking Nick to do things that he tells Escobar he's
never done before. Escobar responds simply, "We all have to make
sacrifices, Niko. You can do this." Without spoiling the ending, let me
just say that Nick's errand doesn't go according to plan  anyone's
plan.

"Escobar: Paradise Lost" feels so authentic, I was surprised to learn
that it is NOT based on a true story. The film tells a tale that seems
very plausible even in its smallest details, based on what we now know
about Pablo Escobar and his criminal empire. Basing this film on a real
person and real events, but focusing on a fictional main plot leaves
writer-director Andrea Di Stefano free to be as creative as she likes
with the story  and what a yarn she has spun! The film starts with
intensity, allows for good characterization and for the development of
the romance between Nick and Maria, then builds to a thrilling third
act, while avoiding clichés found in many films of this kind. In short,
the audience gets a little education and insight, a heartfelt romance
and a harrowing fight for survival, all in a film that's fresh and
entertaining from beginning to end. "A"
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at TIFF 2014 at the Gala event(yes i saw all the stars;
gotta high five from Josh Hutcherson too). But thats besides the point.
I really enjoyed this film and thought that it was very impressive for
the directors first shot at directing. Its quite nice on the eyes as it
was filmed on location and had some clever directing shots as well as a
complementary score. While watching you have a love hate relationship
with Escobar and you can understand why he did this in one scene and
then be appalled by what he does in another. Its interesting because it
is from the perspectives of the two main characters in love so we don't
always no whats happening with Pablo Escobar. It is based off of a true
story and they casted Pablo Escobar perfectly!(in my opinion). The film
left me thinking what i could have done in Nicks position and what a
girl might have done in Maria's position. I might even daresay an Oscar
nom for Benicio Del Toro at the 2015 Academy awards. But well just have
to wait and see (9/22/2014). It is a clean well made film. Very much so
a telling of a story and also so realistic. It is nothing like a
Hollywood major budget film, but thats precisely what gives is charm.
It was a long film to sit throughout, but it held my attention. My
favourite part of the overall movie was definitely the setting and the
whole idea of becoming involved with a drug lord. Worth checking out!
<|_=00=_|>
This is the first movie Andrea di Stefano directed and i really think
it is a realistic glimpse in the life and surroundings of Pablo
Escobar. The setting and scenery is coherent and the whole cast are all
wise choices. Especially Benicio del Toro as Pablo Escobar is such an
excellent choice, his performance is exceptional. I like the timing in
the movie and how it shifts from idyllic surfer paradise to a savage
environment. The story is beautiful told and has a permanent tension. I
did not expect too much from the movie and so for me it was a positive
surprise. The only thing that kind of disturbed me a little is the fact
that i think that when you move to Colombia in 1991 you might know who
Pablo Escobar is, so that is one little bug for me, that Nick appears a
little bit naive, because he does not know that Ecobar is such a BIG
and powerful drug dealer. But besides that really a great movie*
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't expecting much out of this film. But I do enjoy del Toro, as
well as Hutcherson, so I thought I'd give it a shot. It was a little
fast in some parts, but overall not a terrible film. For those saying
it was based on true events, that's a big stretch. Nowhere does it say
that it is based on true events. The movie is very loosely based around
the final years of Pablo Escobar. Think of it like Titanic, true event,
fictional characters. Neither Hutchersons or Traisacs characters
actually existed. As for the ending, it's pretty obvious what happens,
even if you don't see it happen on screen. I would have liked a little
more explanation as to how characters ended up where they were through
the film, but the movie doesn't lose anything because of it. In the
end, it was an OK film with some wonderful acting. Worth a watch.
