
This movie can be summed up in a single word: awful. The performances
were phoned in, the plot was weak, and the premise was ridiculous.

***** SPOILERS *****

The person who wrote this drivel apparently expected everyone to
believe a number of complete implausibilities: that a catatonic boy who
requires extreme care would be released to a home that lacks any
accommodation for his condition other than an adjustable bed; that
someone could convincingly fake being catatonic for six months; that
despite his need to never be seen moving about, he also managed to slip
his mother frequent doses of a tranquilizer that had been prescribed to
him (we aren't shown how he managed this); that somehow the missing
pills were never noticed during the six month period; that a raccoon
rummaging in the garbage outside would wake her from her drug- induced
sleep feeling compelled to investigate, but her supposedly catatonic
son running around the house at night didn't disturb her a bit; and
that the little boy trapped in the house only managed to make it to
Naomi during the night when she was in drugged slumber and the fake
catatonic was free to run around, not during the day when the fake
catatonic had to sit passively in his chair or reveal his farce.

In my experience, the care the makers' of a movie take with the minor
details shows how much they care about the production as a whole. Here,
they apparently didn't give a f---. An unexpected visitor tells the
mother that the huge storm raging outside has already deposited so much
snow that the end of her driveway was blocked when the road was plowed.
Yet a little while later, when she runs outside, her driveway appears
freshly plowed and there is a well beaten path to a dock on a little
lake or pond. Despite the supposedly raging winter storm, the dock is
free of snow and ice. Although it is supposed to be bitterly cold,
there is not so much as a crust of ice on the pond/lake. This list
could go on and on, but that's enough.

In short, there are so many good movies out there, that it would be a
shame to waste any time watching this one.
<|_=00=_|>
"I just want to help you." Mary Portman (Watts) is a child psychologist
that has lost her husband and is taking care of her invalid son. She
does her best to counsel other children while her life is crumbling
down. She becomes concerned with one child in particular and now she
has to decide to do what is best for the child. What she wants, or what
others think. This is a movie that is worth watching because of Naomi
Watts. She does everything she can to hold this movie together but it
still just doesn't work. The movie starts off OK, but by the end it was
hard to tell what was actually happening and what was real and what
wasn't. I do like movies you have to think about, but this one just
didn't make sense and you are left thinking about what is happening,
then something else strange happens and you are trying to figure out
how it fits and then something else happens and you just give up. That
is not a good thing to happen in a movie. Overall, a movie with really
good acting but just never really settled into something I could get
involved in. I give this a C-.
<|_=00=_|>
From my point of view this movie was a good movie that has all
ingredients which a suspense/thriller movie demands. Story was OK,
acting was OK, dialogues were OK according to the scene neither more
nor less, cinematography was also good. I think it was a perfect movie
i don't know why people have given below 5 rating with bad comments.
For me if you have to watch a suspense/ thriller and horror movie then
there are some rules to apply before watching. first you make an
environment for the movie, you have no other work to do between the
movie, you don't talk between the movie, you don't even miss a single
dialogue, your lights should turn off so that your focus should be
completely on the movie. So i think those who have given it less than 5
rating did not apply those rules otherwise the rating of this movie
should have been not less than 6.
<|_=00=_|>
This review of Shut In is spoiler free

* (1/5)

EVERY ONCE IN a while there will be a horror-thriller with an
interesting premise, and for a while this will bode well for the film
industry but then disaster strikes. There will be a film released when
the thrills take ages to kick in which is interesting if it's done
well, even Naomi Watts has been in a few of them Mulholland Drive and
The Ring to name a couple. 

If it's done horribly nothing bodes well for the film, this shows in
director Farren Blackburn's Shut In. Here Blackburn is away from his
natural home of directing TV episodes (he's even been tasked for making
the first episode of this year's Iron Fist). The film stars Watts as
Mary Portman a Child Psychologist who works close to home. She has a
good day working with a child until she gets the call that her 18
year-old stepson (Charlie Heaton) has been involved in a head-on
collision, and he is paralyzed. She has to take care of his every need,
bathe him, feed him and clothe him. 

For a while this isolation horror-thriller has an interesting premise,
there are even a couple of gorgeous shot of Watts walking through the
snow covered wooded environment outside her home. Unfortunately the
screenplay written by Christina Hodson is garbage, and at points
awkward down to a tee that it makes it hard for its main star to read
out the lines. In addition with terrible performances, even at Watts'
standards. There is a point in which Mary seeks help from her employer
(Oliver Platt), she states that she is seeing a ghost of a child that
she takes care for, he then says that ghosts don't exist she's just
sleep deprived. It plays on this for quite some time not giving much
information or any idea of where the film is heading.

To an extent the film also involves pretentious jump scares, which
appear in a theme, of she hears banging goes to investigate and it
turns out to be a false alarm, or she is grabbed and scared
half-to-death, this sparks a vulnerability theme. There are a lot of
those feelings in this. It's not original. At this point there is no
hope left for Shut In. Seemingly we wait for what feels like an
eternity for something even remotely thrilling to happen, at which
point we've had our thousandth yawn. To spark the audience's attention
it calls the barricade & hunt style card, last year's The Boy played on
that theme too. It doesn't need to be said, but it's fair to say this
is a tired - frankly unoriginal, incoherent horror-thriller with
nothing interesting going for it, it's just drivel we've seen before.

VERDICT: A tired horror-thriller, with poor performances even by Watts'
standards, and garbage screenplay. It'll be better to watch this while
sleeping.
<|_=00=_|>
It has to be very difficult to care for a shut-in, especially when
you're doing it by yourself, and even more so when you live in the
middle of nowhere. You have very little support (physically or
emotionally), which means you're probably very lonely, overworked,
frustrated, you can't easily go out much and you don't have much of a
life to call your own. Even if you love the person you're taking care
of (as most, if not all caregivers do), it has to be extremely tough.
That's the set-up for "Shut In" (PG-13, 1:31).

Oscar nominee Naomi Watts stars as Mary Portman, a family psychologist
who's unable to help Stephen (Charlie Heaton), her troubled teenage
stepson, get past his (unexplained) inner turmoil. When Stephen gets
expelled from school (for reasons also not explained), Mary and her
husband make the very difficult but necessary decision to send him off
to a special boarding school. On the way to that school, a car accident
kills Stephen's father and leaves Stephen in a catatonic state, with
Mary as his sole caregiver.

Mary loves her stepson and does her best with him, but she also has to
keep working. After feeding, bathing and dressing Stephen each morning,
she sets him up in front of the television and walks over to her office
in a small building right next to her house in rural Maine. One of her
patients is a young orphan named Tom (Jacob Tremblay), who is nearly
deaf and doesn't speak. When Tom finds out that his caregiver is
planning to send him to Boston, he runs away and shows up back at
Mary's house.

Before Mary can get Tom's caregiver to come out to her place and pick
him up, Tom disappears. As that cold Maine winter day turns into an
even colder night, Mary and those helping to search for Tom fear the
worst. Mary starts "seeing" Tom in her bedroom at night and actually
starts thinking that he has died and his ghost is haunting her. Mary
has a psychiatrist (Oliver Platt) who tries to reason with her and
offers to prescribe sleep medication, until he learns there's something
about Mary that he didn't know.

"Shut In" is an entertaining thrillerÂ… if you can look past the many
plot holes in Christina Hodson's script and inconsistencies in Farren
Blackburn's directing. There are numerous basic questions left
unanswered (like those examples mentioned above and others like why, in
the midst of a winter storm, there's no ice on Mary's pond) and some
characters' actions don't make sense in light of their motivations. The
twists are cool, but the acting is shaky and the plot is simplistic and
contrived. "C+"
<|_=00=_|>
Shut In represents the worst that the horror/slasher/stalker/thriller
genre(s) have to offer, but it's also lame in the way that is all too
common to screen writing. It's got a hackneyed story that for the first
two thirds is dull as dishwater - deathly serious when it should be
interesting, or at least giving us more with the character that Naomi
Watts plays (or, I should say, passively inhabits until she gets her
quick pay day for filming) - and then in the last third becomes
atrocious as far as doing what I'm sure they thought of as "homage" to
the Shining when it comes off as being a shallow and insipid rip-off.

It's unimaginative in the ways that should matter for it to either be a
legitimately good movie about a mother taking care of her invalid son
(the opening shows her aggressive teenage stepson, going off to some
special school after being expelled with his dad, and the two get into
a car wreck that leaves the father dead and the kid in a lobotomized
state), while also tending to a seemingly troubled boy who is
practically deaf (this Jacob Tremblay, making sure like Jennifer
Lawrence and Kristin Stewart before him among many others to get in
that s***y horror movie in early in his career) and who runs away and
he may be a ghost now, OR if it became a sleazy exploitation picture
with hints/direct references to incest and gratuitous nudity and
violence.

Instead this is kind of lazy, boring thriller where the main character
has dream sequences that are meant to trick us to make us think
something terrible or suspenseful is happening (she's washing her son
and then tries to drown him, so early on in the movie, wow that's
effed-oh wait nevermind). It does something I cannot abide or stand by
when it comes to clichÃ©d screen writing which is not carrying the
courage of its storytelling convictions: it should take its premise of
a woman in a snow-bound Maine area and run with it in creative ways,
not in fake-outs and dreams/nightmares that are meant to make us jump.
And, as is the case with spineless horror thrillers from Hollywood (The
Darkness was another one this year, but at least that had the slightest
bit of something different with the conceit of its premise), it's
PG-13. Soft, squishy, one F-word and 'partial' nudity with Naomi Watts
(or, as Jerry Seinfeld might say, "Bad naked" in the scene we actually
see her exposed in an act of escape from a bathroom).

This isn't the kind of movie that could have been saved necessarily by
stronger performances - Watts is doing her best to keep above water,
and Oliver Platt is there to, uh, deliver lots of clunky exposition
about medical stuff and "there's no such thing as ghosts" - but I could
have at least seen someone with stronger balls or crazier
sensibilities. Here, Charlie Heaton is the son (or, sorry, 'step son',
got to continue to say that, god forbid they went for the much more
dangerous territory), and he comes off less like someone who could give
this a pair of over-the-top magnificence (think 80's Nicolas Cage or
early Crispin Glover for example), and is instead like a 2nd rate Dane
Dehaan. By the time his 'secret' is revealed it's a) so preposterous
that, as it turns out, was actually a *joke sub-plot* on Arrested
Development, and b) if it's meant to be serious it doesn't hold up to a
shred of scrutiny. Compared to this, this year's The Boy is Hitchcock's
Psycho.

But at least The Boy tried to give it a good go with giving good actors
some decent dialog, and once it finally went full-stupid it was so
mind-blowing as to grab my attention by the throat (the ending, as
uproariously silly as it was, at least tried something different). This
does nothing different, aside urinate on The Shining and Stephen King
in general, and if I wasn't being angry at other times I was nodding
off almost about to sleep, which is very hard for me to do given the
light and sound of a theater experience. It's not scary, not thrilling,
not dramatic, not exciting, not enticing, not well acted (yeah, it's a
career low for Watts), and it's not even much of anything. I'd expect
it on a ten-pack DVD of bargain basement horror flicks you can get in
Wal-Mart, not on over 1,000 screens.
<|_=00=_|>
The beginning of this film has Watts' character suffering the sudden
loss (in a car crash) of her husband, which seemingly sent his 15 years
old son (her stepson) into catatonia. She then cares for him (despite
the fact it was clearly established that he was aggressively violent
toward her, and his father, and the three of them never got along with
each other).

Then, a small boy Watts is counselling disappears from her house, in
the freezing cold winter in Maine. She then seems to be going mad, both
searching for the boy, and blaming herself for her stepson's accident,
which it turns out, was all an act by him to get attention from her,
despite the fact that again, they didn't get along to begin with, so
why does he suddenly care if she pays attention to him?

Far too complicated of a setup, especially for a film which cannot
decide where it wants to go, this then degenerates into a really lame
combination of this year's The Boy (which was quite derivative of
several other films), Halloween (during the hiding-in-the-closet
climax), and The Shining, with Oliver Platt's character obviously
standing in for Scatman Crothers' Dick Hallorann.

Seriously, anyone who cannot figure what his fate will be is a moron. 

There is so little to say about this one because there is so little
substance to anything here. None of its under developed plot threads
make any sense, or go anywhere. Seeing Naomi Watts just kept reminding
me of my second favourite movie, Mulholland Drive, and seeing Oliver
Platt just kept reminding me of Lake Placid, and made me want to watch
both of those gain. They're both vastly superior movies than this.
<|_=00=_|>
Shut In is a rather predictable thriller that treads a well worn path.

That's not to say this is a poor film, its just that this concept has
been recycled so many times, its become rather obvious whats happening
and where its going.

Naomi Watts hands in a decent effort in the lead role and indeed, the
cast in general hand in competent performances. The tension builds
nicely but I felt, the reveal was too sudden and robbed the film of
much of the scare factor that had been built up to that point. 

The actions of the key character also seem a bit absurd at times as
does the overall concept, which stretches credulity to a degree.

In short, not a bad film if you like a few scares but regrettably
nothing terribly special either. Six out of ten from me.
<|_=00=_|>
Child psychologist Mary is trying to put her life back together after
losing her husband in a car accident. Her teenage son was in the same
car and he's in a coma.

Mary, who works from home, is given a patient, Tom, a boy grieving
after his mother's death. When she's told Tom is being taken away, she
doesn't agree that the move is the best thing for him. He escapes from
custody during a storm and is presumed dead by authorities.

Mary starts hearing his voice in her house and catches glimpses of him.
But then more mysterious things happen as she's trapped in her isolated
home during the storm.......

What could have been a totally perfunctory little supernatural thriller
starring a once prolific actress, turns into nothing more than a bland
thriller that thinks it's something better than what it is.

Watts sleepwalks through her performance as the troubled Mary,,and it's
not surprising, because this film is so dark at times, it's really
difficult to see what is going on. But it's all for the sinister effect
of the overall product, isn't it?

Platt pops up every now and again as Mr. Skype advice, but then turns
all Scatman Crothers in The Shinjng come the third act, and you can
probably guess what happens.

But it's this huge, ridiculous twist at the end that makes the film so
laughably bad, and it almost harks at an incestuous relationship.

Instead of shocking the viewer, it almost turned my stomach, making me
dislike this wretched film a little but more.

If the thought of a once great actress walking around a dark house for
ninety minutes with a look of disdain on her face throughout, then this
may be your cup of tea.

Watts must have needed some money quick, because heaven knows why she
agreed to be in this ridiculous piece of work.
<|_=00=_|>
It's crazy how bad movie production has become lately.. What is wrong
writers and directors? This predictable movie stuff being produced now
days is no excuse to blame on piracy or low sales.. It IS getting
Ridiculous!

I practically sat there with my wife at the movies and could dam near
predict almost half of what was going to happen past half way through
the to the end.

Its a shame because this movie could have went so many other ways to
give us something refreshing to look at.. but NO.. The laziness kicked
in on this movie like many of the other crap being produced now..

It's getting bad!
