
This is my first review. I have finally gotten tired of fake reviewers
and haters rating films poorly because they don't like the actor and
likely never saw the film. Reviewers are offended because he was
working outside without a shirt on or because his shirt sleeves were
short? Give me a break. I've seen plenty of 1 and 2 star movies, but,
this was not one of them.

What I want to know from a review is whether or not a movie is worth
watching. I do like action films and I don't dislike Sean Penn. This
review comes from that angle.

You're not going to find cars jumping between sky scrapers, people
falling 100s of feet and walking away or phony cliffhangers in this
film. What you will find is an attempt to show necessary action in a
mostly realistic way.

Sean Penn's role is more like Rambo than Superman. The action was
original, clever and well executed. The dialogue was realistic and the
acting was believable.

The only reason I didn't give it an 8 or 9 is because I felt it tried
to do too much in too little time. That having been said making the
movie longer wouldn't have worked because it would have taken 5 hours
to do it right. The first 20 minutes could have been its own 2 hour
film.

That having been said it all made sense. I didn't leave the theater
wondering why or how anything happened. I would have cut several of the
longer scenes short in order to tell more of the back story.

If you are looking for something fun to do on a Saturday afternoon you
won't go wrong by seeing this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a huge Sean Penn fan. To my way of thinking, his best
performance up until this movie was as Bradford Whitewood, Jr. in "At
Close Range," but right now, after just having watched The Gunman, I've
got to say, "Wow..." I never thought of Sean Penn as any sort of
"action" star and I certainly never imagined him doing a film like
this. But he can sure pick them. And picking this one was a stroke of
genius. Some folks might see it as formulaic or routine, but I
guarantee you that whoever wrote the screenplay either did more
research than he should have or knows more about it than he should. It
was almost perfect.
<|_=00=_|>
There's nothing much to say about 'The Gunman', but I'll keep going
until I've said too much for an action flick that deserves an
assessment no more than a "disaster".

It will be a real wonder to be able to find something that is of any
interest through the movie's entire two hours. The film itself strikes
as a mere guessing game that pushes the audience to asking themselves
which asset (if there's any) it actually aims to present: the bad-ass
hit-man story the writers seem to claim the film has, or Sean Penn's
overexposed shirtless bulging physique. Unfortunately, two hours isn't
enough to achieve a sensible answer, as both eventually grow to become
extremely irritating toward the end of the film. A handful of
overqualified actors and aesthetic settings may come across as efforts
to salvage the wreckage, but none of this attempts seems to have
manifested an evident result. The plot is plagued with predictability
and clich√©s, but bears no real shocker twists to shake its overly
familiar course.

'The Gunman' feels like just another attempt to make another Liam
Neeson out of another over-50 star. Unfortunately, with its utterly
thin and convolutedly-written material, the result is neither near
'convincing', nor far from 'misfire'. OK, I've said more than too much
already.
<|_=00=_|>
'The Gunman' opens with the BBC footage that civil war has erupted in
the Democratic Republic of Congo between rebel militia and governmental
forces locked in a bloody civil war for the control of the country's
prized natural resources. Enter Jim Terrier (Sean Penn), a NGO worker
providing security while an airstrip is being built. In the middle of
chaotic Congo, Jim has fallen in love with Annie (Jasmine Trinca), a
Doctors Without Borders volunteer. Annie has attracted the heart of not
only Jim but also co worker Felix (Javier Bardem). Felix's jealousy is
readily apparent and can only spell disaster for Jim and Annie's
relationship. Only a few minutes into the film we discover that both
Jim and Feliz are living dual lives. Jim is a hired assassin for a
multinational mining company, which is set on protecting their
interests in the war torn Congo. Felix is the civil liaison for the
foreign mining companies and Sean Penn's assassin team. When the
Minister of Mining in the Congo nullifies all mining contracts with
foreign companies, Jim is activated by his employer who wants the
politician assassinated. The team of four assassins is lead by Cox
(Mark Rylance) who announces to his sharp shooters that Felix will
decide which of the assassins will take the fatal shot and then said
assassin will have to flee the continent immediately after. No surprise
Felix chooses Jim to take the shot and having accomplished the mission,
Jim is forced to leave Africa and Annie without so much as a goodbye. 8
years later Jim has reunited with the African continent as a UNICEF
employee drilling wells when suddenly his past assassination comes back
to haunt him. For the next hour and a half, Jim must circumvent Europe
to track down who has knowledge of his past deeds and understand why he
is wanted dead. Without giving any spoilers, the reason 'The
Gunman'never gets off the ground is because the film is unable to
sustain any intrigue. Jim is a glorified henchman for a multinational
corporation, he is hardly the hero that you want to root for. Jim's
character is drawn so thin you know very little about him to care
enough whether he lives or dies. Additionally his relationship with
Annie earns so little screen time before being abruptly halted that you
invest almost nothing in the possibilities of Jim and Annie rekindling
at some later date. The questions that Jim seeks answer to could have
easily been solved with a couple phone calls, but instead his contacts
send him on a treasure hunt around Europe. Apparently the information
Jim needs is only accessible with a change of location at each turn.
Each new venue invites its share of killers and combat. While Jim is on
his mission for answers, we catch wind that Interpol, headed by Idris
Elba, has Jim on their surveillance. Interpol seems one step ahead of
Jim in terms of solving the puzzle, however they are convinced Jim is
the linchpin to cracking the case. The final act of the movie is very
predictable not to mention familiar and even a bit silly. Sean Penn's
physique in the film is impressive and we are constantly reminded how
much the actor got in shape for the role considering how much screen
time his giant biceps earn. There are hardly any production credits
that are distinguishable and worth mentioning here. Ultimately, the
film underwhelms and feels like it wants to cash in on the fan base of
the retired Bourne franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
Good plot - took you to Congo, Spain and London. Something to think
about what may or does go in Africa with the corruption of their
natural resources.

Well thought out, no silly stupid explosions, villains held their guns
right and for a change there were no Chuck Norris's or Bruce Lee's in
the fighting.

And that is the biggest gripe of mine when it comes to action film -
most films are too far fetched. Need more films like this and such as
the 'Heat ' Leon'. Why cant they make real films anymore? The only bit
that spoil it for me was an illness - didn't need it in the script
<|_=00=_|>
When you hear a movie titled the Gunman what do you think of? For me I
think of a few scenarios that come to mind: an action pack shoot em up
movie, something on the lines of James Bond, or following down the
rogue agent Bourne pathway. So I can't help but say I was excited for
this movie this weekend, especially with Sean Penn leading the cast.
With few trailers to give me insight, I eagerly headed to my local
theater to give this film a try. 

Unfortunately the movie did not go down the expected path, and even
worse it took the wrong direction for this reviewer. For those
uncertain of the plot, Gunman is about a sniper named Terrier who is
targeted for assassination by an unknown group. In order to save
himself and his loved ones, he must dig deep into a convoluted scheme
that may related back to an incident. I know sounds awesome right, if
old hat, but Gunman held some promise of action mixed in with good old
fashioned spying. 

Not the case my friends. Gunman is actually a snooze fest, being one of
the first movies to make me nap in almost half a year. It starts with
the pace of the movie, not necessarily too slow, but just enough that
you start to lose interest. For me, it wasn't that the plot was boring,
but the details they tried to lay out for us were very convoluted, many
details ambiguous and confusing in their presentation. May of the
scenes involved him obsessing over his former love, which after a few
arguments and an unnecessary sex scene, started to grow staler than
month old bread. Now don't get me wrong, convoluted plots can be a good
thing, but they require a good presentation that keeps one engaged in
the movie. And this film did not do it for me. 

Perhaps I could have been entertained more if the action had lived up
to my, I'll admit, high expectations. The opening shot scene was
nothing special, but the following skirmish held some promise for
excitement down the line. And in truth, two or three battles brought
the flash in the pot, bang in your ear entertainment that I so crave.
Despite being an elite shooter, Terrier didn't have perfect accuracy,
and had to pull some creative stunts to take down his killers, who by
the way could actually hit him. Taking away our hero's invincibility
was a smart move, but some battles get led down the wrong path, or are
a repeat of an earlier fight. Kills are graphic, the camera not shying
away from someone's head getting a new hole, as torrents of red litter
the ground. If you are up for this kind of stuff, then by all means
stop reading this review and head down to the theater. Looking back
over the movie though, I can't say the action was as on point or
exciting as I had hoped, nor as fast as these scenes sometime need to
be. 

Helping save this movie from complete failure was the acting. Sean Penn
as Terrier was good. The actor was able to transition across the
emotional spectrum, being a relief worker with a little troublemaker
streak to an angry killer on the loose. Penn has always had a talent
for playing well developed characters, and while annoying as this role
is, he still plays it well. Jasmine Trica as Annie was a decent
addition to the cast, though I must say her character could have been
much stronger than they made her. Trica's main talent involved huffing,
puffing, and crying as people died. Her dialog was too shallow for me
and they threw her as nothing but an object for Terrier to protect.
Javier Barden brings his Hispanic background back to the screen, but
his role was very short and unfortunately very sad as a love obsessed,
drunk who loses his min. Not my favorite role, but again he does okay.
As for Idris Elba, he is hardly in the film for fifteen minutes, really
only to bring some "coded" advice and a means to end the movie. No
offense Elba, but had you been tailing Penn for the whole movie, I
might have boosted your score.

Special effects wise the editing worked for me in this movie. Stable
camera angles and detailed fighting helped bring the action to life.
The battlefields that became the stage for our fights were also
beautiful, crafted or located in a variety of settings. Some were cool
like a mansion, and others were ridiculous, like at a matador arena.
Nevertheless we had an epic soundtrack to add some slight touches of
excitement to the mix, as well as high definition pings, twacks, and
booms to nearly deafen your ears. Unfortunately the team's cuts of the
footage were nowhere near perfect for me, even though they were under
the 2 hour mark. I don't know why they kept half of the dialog heavy
scenes in, especially when they kept us going in circles. Oh what a
waste of good film..

The Gunman is not the movie I expected it to be, and despite the
assembled cast of actors, the potential is lost to fast production.
With an overly ambiguous plot, and a pace that moves like a snail, the
execution of this movie was below par. Those who are fans of extreme
violence and profanity, as well as shots of poverty Africa are at home
in this film, but otherwise skip this film for something better. A trip
to the theater is not recommended from me, but we all know enough
desire can make you see anything. Overall my scores for Gunman are:

Action/Crime/Drama: 6.5 Movie Overall: 5.5
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Sean Penn becomes the latest
addition to the AARP action hero club ¬Ö a very crowded club these days.
Unfortunately for Mr. Penn, he lacks the smirky charm of Bruce Wills,
the uber-cool of Denzel Washington, and he fails to generate the
empathy of Liam Neeson. He simply doesn't come across as a very likable
guy, and certainly not someone we can root for.

Based on the novel of Jean-Patrick Manchette, the movie starts out in
the Democratic Republic of Congo where Penn is a mercenary disguised as
part of a mining security detail. The first 20 minutes are convoluted
and introduce numerous characters and sub-plots that leave us wondering
if there are any good guys here ¬Ö other than Penn's idealistic doctor
girlfriend played by Jasmine Trinca. A sure sign of a weak script is a
film that is bookended by "newscasts" to explain both what is going to
happen as well as what just happened.

Pierre Morel directed the first Taken movie, and his cast is stellar:
Sean Penn, Javier Bardem, Idris Elba, Ray Winstone, and Mark Rylance.
Somehow that combination delivers a hokey, over-acted, cheesy dialogue
mess featuring absurd shoot-outs and action sequences that try to
convince us Penn is some kind of quasi-superhero. His transformation
from geopolitical hit-man to humanitarian is tough to buy, and it's
downright chuckle-inducing to see the times he manages to show off his
sculpted torso. We can only assume his personal trainer received a
bonus for each shirtless scene.

The story bounces from Africa to London to Barcelona to Gibraltar and
back to Barcelona. It does include the best use of a live bull so far
this year, though the actual bullfighting is somehow one of the least
gruesome segments of the entire film. The film isn't as sneaky as it
thinks it is in making a statement about multinational corporations
raiding Third World resources. Evidently, the message is that former
assassins can be forgiven if they are re-born as committed to
humanitarian causes, but capitalistic companies cannot possibly justify
their work in impoverished areas.

All of the above could be shrugged off if so many wasted opportunities
didn't consistently frustrate. Penn has scenes with all of the other
actors mentioned above, but there is almost no interaction between the
others. Why no confrontations between Idris and Javier? How about one
sequence with Penn, Javier and Winstone squaring off? So many fun
actors, but so little cross-over. Frustration may be the best overall
description for this one, and it encompasses everything from script to
dialogue to camera work.
<|_=00=_|>
Sean Penn is too old to play these roles and very unsuitable. The love
interest was only used to show her skin, not much of an actress, how
she got cast in the movie is baffling. They both looked terrible and
the plot was barely able to hold the movie. Two men fighting over a
woman, lots of sex and clothes coming off. Sean Penn thought making
another 80s clich√© movie would make comeback, he was clearly wrong. All
in all an awful movie, awful cast, awful acting. Very deserving of the
Razzie award. I would not recommend this movie to anyone. How it ever
hit the screens is perplexing. The only good acting was by Javier
Bardem which shows that only he was able to bring some flavour to it
but then his role is minimal.
<|_=00=_|>
Boring, predictable and not much to see. Penn, comes across as an old
guy who would be very unlikely to pull off 1/2 of the movies plot. Very
disappointed. If you nothing else to do and feel like throwing your
money away, you might consider seeing it. Just another rehashed shoot
um up bang bang special effects looser. How many times are they going
to take the same plot, add different names and characters and call it a
new movie? The same plot has been done to death. No creativity here
folks, move on to something else. The cast ties their best, but there
isn't much to work with here. I would have preferred to stay home and
get some rest.
<|_=00=_|>
In the same grain as "The American" and "The International", "THE
(notice a trend?) Gunman" is a international thriller/action. Where the
former 2 films focus more on the thrill, and are overall failures,
Gunman is more action, and much more entertaining. If you are looking
for a fairly low commitment to a 'smart' action movie, then you can do
worse.

In 2006, Terrier (Penn) works for a global corporation (that might as
well be called Umbrella Corporation) and is asked to kill a high
ranking diplomat. The movie then skips ahead to the present where
Terrier is not being chased down by unknown assailants. Nothing
original there.

Terrier (Penn) is a likable character. Penn tends to be an actor your
either hate or love, but he is does a good job as a grittier, more
realistic Jason Borne. The movie ties to humanize him, but that side
plot is mostly a thud. After Penn, the cast is stellar - however
underutilized. It really is the peak of 'hey that guy' British actors.
Unfortunately, Elba who gets second billing is in the movie for 2
scenes total and less than 3 minutes screen time, a role that has so
little to it that I might as well have played the character. Winstone
and Bardem exist, but their talent is mostly wasted.

The movie is a step sideways from a classic action movie. If you like
the Borne series and its fast paced action you likely won't enjoy the
more 'realistic' violence of "The Gunman". Unfortunately, if you are
not interested in the Borne series, this likely won't be of any more
interest. I give the movie a 7, because I enjoyed it. It is far from
perfect, I feel the movie definitely 'left sometime on the table' in
terms of directing and acting, it misses often in character
development, and the movie kind of devolves into clich√©, but there is
enough substance to watch.
