
Liv Ullman gets just about everything wrong in her slow, heavy, inert
adaptation of "Miss Julie." The play needs white hot intensity; she
kills its momentum with portentous silences. It needs the
claustrophobia of its kitchen setting; she dissipates this by "opening
it up" as you're supposedly required to do when filming plays, taking
it down corridors and outdoors. It needs an atmosphere of raucous
midsummer revelry right outside the windows, with the revelers at one
point invading the kitchen; she lets us hear them, briefly, but
otherwise the three characters seem to be the last people on earth.
Instead of merry folk dancing, which provides an ironic counterpoint in
the original, we get a string trio playing tasteful Schubert adagios.
Jessica Chastain is well cast and, when allowed to come to life, very
good, as is Samantha Morton, but Colin Farrell is misdirected; his Jean
("John" in this version) lacks the charm and sardonic humor that would
make the character compelling. For no good reason the play is relocated
to Ireland, a setting Ullmann makes no use of. (I guess it's to justify
the actors' brogues.) Strindberg sets a clock going right from the
start, so that the proceedings carry tremendous urgency; Ullman drains
all the tension out of it so it plods drearily. The worst thing you can
do in adapting any work is drape it in the deadening mantle of a
"classic." There's nice decor, costumes and cinematography to gaze at,
but don't let this be your introduction to Strindberg's electrifying
play.
<|_=00=_|>
August Strindberg wrote his play MISS JULIE in 1888 and while it is
often performed today by classical repertory companies, the story is
strong and deserves the very frank and stage-like production that
brilliant actress Liv Ullmann brings to the screenplay adaptation and
directs with a sure hand.

The story is set on Midsummer's Eve on the estate of a Count in
Fermanagh, Ireland. Miss Julie (Jessica Chastain in a brilliant
performance), the young woman of the title, is drawn to a senior
servant, a valet named Jean (Colin Farrell also quite brilliant), who
is particularly well traveled, well mannered and well read. The action
takes place in the kitchen of Miss Julie's father's manor, where Jean's
fiancée, a servant named Kathleen (Samantha Morton), cooks and
sometimes sleeps while Jean and Miss Julie talk. On this night the
relationship between Miss Julie and Jean escalates rapidly to feelings
of love and is subsequently consummated. Over the course of the story
Miss Julie and Jean battle until Jean convinces her that the only way
to escape her predicament is to commit suicide.

While the acting and cinematography and production values are
excellent, the aspect of Liv Ullmann's emphasis on Strindberg's reason
for committing this work to the public  as one historian phrased it
well, 'Miss Julie and Jean, as vying against each other in an
evolutionary "life and death" battle for a survival of the fittest. The
character, Miss Julie, represents the last of an old aristocratic breed
about to die out. Whereas Jean represents one who is clambering
upwards, and who is more fit to thrive because he is better able to
adapt in terms of the "life roles" he can take on. The play contains a
variety of themes, partly because Miss Julie's actions are motivated by
a range of factors and influences: her class, her desires and impulsive
nature, her father, and the dynamic traumas of her family histories.'

The musical score is brilliant  various combinations of violin, cello
and piano with works by Schubert and Bach performed by Håvard Gimse,
piano, Truls Mørk, cello and Arve Tellefsen, violin. The music is an
integral part of the atmosphere. Highly Recommended. Grady Harp, May 15
<|_=00=_|>
(possibly Mild Spoilers) I am not a fan of Chastain at all, but she was
well cast with the ethereal elegance she brings to Julie's madness, her
seeming lucidity only when she is growling and snarling in anger and
frustration at John (Farrell). Farrell is a chimera of resentment,
hope, sociopath behavior and tender confession. He moves from trying to
stop the disaster he foresees, to active participant and then tries to
deny his own desires. When he finally agrees to take Julie, to make a
run for a new life with her, she cannot let go of the bird that
represents herself, her privileged life... And the symbolism of John's
response is brilliant; Farrell displays the complicated emotions at war
with each other that his character feels with astonishing depth. Morton
was brilliantly solid, her understated portrayal of the character
making Kathleen all the more real amidst the madness.

Unlike other critics, I found the "opening up" of the play into other
areas and venues to be done very well. We step into Julie's 'garden'
which is really as much in her mind as real, it's her view of life as
she'd have it be. Kathleen is equally trapped as Cook and then in the
small rooms of the house, as she is in her existence. Only John, who
can see better things for his life, moves freely throughout the house,
as he wants to do between the classes of Irish society.

The incredible depth of human psychology, the love hate relationships
with each other, their own lives, the class system, is explored both in
action, dialogue, and in the settings chosen for each part of the play.
The viewer feels both sympathy and revulsion for the characters in
turn. The nuances that these three actors brought to the characters,
and the narrow focus of the film over the play, add to the intensity.
<|_=00=_|>
Jessica Chastain and Colin Farrell are superb. Although the critics
seem to hate this movie, lauding it to be nothing like they imagined
the play to be, nonetheless, having not ever seen the play or read it,
I had nothing to base my preconceived ideas on. Therefore, this was
something of a masterpiece. Incredible performances from the actors,
painful, and actually a treatise to the hideous mores and codes of its
times, despite being adapted by Liv Ullman, the over-riding theme is
astonishing when you discover that the original play was written in
1888, and depicts the absurdities of human belief systems and caste
systems. In this day and age, they would have had a rollick one night,
said goodbye and avoided each other's eyes in the hallway whilst
getting the heck on with their lives! A story of a very lonely, overly
sensitive young woman who has no idea what life is about, and the
sanctimonious serving maid who thinks that Jesus will save her, and how
ultimately, a poor boy has a turmoil of stored hatred and
vindictiveness toward the gentry, albeit rightly so, yet turns that
into a crime that is inconceivable. An utterly brilliant work. Kudos to
Liv Ullman. If you want action, no dialogue, and joy, this movie might
not be for you. But if you want to take a good, long look at how evil
the natural function of humanity is made by an unnatural society, this
is a winner.
<|_=00=_|>
I had never seen her be this loud, this unabashedly theatrical. But,
the character calls for it, and it all somehow works. Farrell doesn't
have to go as big, and yet he's the one that comes across as
unconvincing. The film only really comes alive when it gives Chastain
the space to be as loud as humanly possible. It's not a terrible film,
but it just seems like an excuse for such powerhouse acting showcasing,
and in that respect it's tremendously glorious to witness Chastain's
work. It could've easily gone off the rails with many actresses, but
she still manages to surprise me in what she can achieve. Again, it
worked for me, but it won't for everyone. Several people will
absolutely loathe her (really, any performance of this nature is bound
to) but I can honestly say she is probably better here than in Rigby,
if only because the material allows it. In that way it's a hard
performance to analyze, it's basically "here, watch Chastain ACT!"
without really caring if we get the character. But it worked for the 2
hours, mostly.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not familiar with the source material, but the movie version of it,
will not be everyones cup of tea. It feels like a drag and the pacing
is slow to say the least. The characters seem to be stuck at a place
where it'll be hard to feel something for them. Having said all that,
the acting is superb and if you like your drama to be slow paced, but
filled with dialog to make you think about, this could be exactly the
one you were looking for.

It never did have the punch or the feeling that it could be something
great to me, but that's always in the eye of the beholder and might
feel different for people who know more about it (more familiar with
source material) than myself. It also feels like it is way too long for
its own good. While good, there are things that make this tough to
watch ...
<|_=00=_|>
Norwegian actress, author, screenwriter and director Liv Ullmann's
fifth feature film which she wrote, is an adaptation of a play from
1888 by Swedish 19th and 20th century writer, playwright and painter
August Strindberg (18491912). It premiered in the Special
Presentations section at the 39th Toronto International Film Festival
in 2014, was shot on locations in Northern Ireland and is a
Norway-UK-Ireland-France co-production which was produced by producers
Synnøve Hørsdal, Oliver Dungey and Teun Hilte. It tells the story about
a baron's daughter named Julie and her involvement with a servant named
John and a live-in maid named Kathleen. 

Distinctly and precisely directed by Norwegian filmmaker Liv Ullmann,
this quietly paced fictional tale which is narrated by a protagonist
and interchangeably from the protagonists' viewpoints, draws an
increasingly gravitating and incisively psychological portrayal of a
relation which evolves in a kitchen on a Midsummer Eve. While notable
for its distinctly naturalistic milieu depictions, majestic
cinematography by Russian cinematographer Mikhail Krichman, production
design by production designer Caroline Amies, costume design by Irish
producer and costume designer Consolata Boyle and film editing by film
editor Michal Leszczlowski, this dialog-driven and narrative-driven
story about survival, depicts some internally scrutinizing studies of
character. 

This atmospheric, ingeniously dramatic and bittersweet romance which is
set in Ireland in the late 19th century and where an at that period in
time unsuitable attraction between human beings within a castle which
turns into a royal affair, escalates into a crucial competition of
mutual insults and condemnations, is impelled and reinforced by its
cogent narrative structure, substantial character development, rhythmic
continuity, instrumental music, comment by Kathleen: "It is a work of
" and the eminent acting performances by Irish actor Colin Farrell,
American actress Jessica Chastain and English actress Samantha Morton.
A concentrated and reverently cinematographic character piece.
<|_=00=_|>
From the works of William Shakespeare to more modern works, stage plays
have always provided a rich source of material for filmmakers. August
Strindberg's 1888 play Miss Julie has apparently been a particularity
rich source, having been adapted for the screen more than a dozen times
in little more than a century. While not being overly familiar with the
play, and perhaps drawn more by the actors than the source material, I
recently sat down to take in the latest film version of the play and
discovered an interesting, if often contradictory piece of work.

On the surface, the film is well acted. There's only really three
performers in the whole film: Jessica Chastain as the title character,
Colin Farrell as the valet John and Samantha Morton as the maid
Katherine who is also John's finance. Chastainis perfect casting as
Miss Julie, the daughter of a wealthy baron sitting at home alone on a
midsummer's night in 1890 who finds her fragile little world thrown
into chaos. If there's any reason to watch the film it's Chastain who,
with her red hair and green eyes standing out against her blue dress,
goes on a remarkable emotional journey between extremes of happiness
and sadness, authority and submissiveness, maturity and childishness,
quiet contemplation and fits of anger before realizing that she is
ultimately trapped by the world and situation she finds herself in. In
a way, Chastain's performance sums up the entire film: beautiful,
fragile and a mess of contradictions.

Then there's Farrell and Morton. Of the trio, Farrell is the weakest in
that his acting often seems forced rather than natural, making him at
odds with his co-stars. Mot to mention an Irish brogue so thick you'll
likely have to turn on subtitles to understand it which rather
undermines the refined air that the character tries to put on and is
meant to have (though that might be a deliberate move, it's hard to
tell). That said, there's an undeniable chemistry between him and
Chastain that makes their lengthy and at times unlikely encounters
interesting to watch. Morton, the member of the trio with the least
amount of screen time, comes across as an often silent and appalled
witness to the events unfolding around her. It's her quiet, understated
performance that makes for a wonderful contrast with the sometimes
explosive performance Chastain gives. Together, they make for an
interesting group of performers who bring the film to life.

What makes their performances interesting is the script, adapted from
the original play. Ultimately all three of these characters go on the
same journey and discover the same thing: that despite whatever actions
they may take they're ultimately trapped in the world and roles they
find themselves in. What they do with that fact is what defines them.
There's more to it than that of course as sparks fly in not only a
battle of class but also of the sexes as each tries to gain the
upper-hand over the other with consequences that ultimately prove both
disastrous and that have an almost tragic inevitability to them. Even
as character's bounce back and forth between emotional extremes, it
somehow seems believable under the circumstances as roles are reversed
and hearts both laid bare and broken in the space of a single night.
The results are incredible to watch...at times.

Which brings us to the production. The direction of Liv Ullmann, and
the editing of Michal Leszczylowski, has the film unfold not with the
white-hot intensity suggested by the dialogue or indeed the
performances often suggest. Instead, the film unfolds slowly, never
really building up momentum as it takes the viewer on its two hour
journey. It's something that turns what could have been a fascinating,
well paced drama into one that is as often infuriatingly static despite
the emotions and tension building up between the characters. Making up
for that is the film's visuals in the form of some beautiful
cinematography from Mikhail Krichman as well as the sets and costumes
of Mikhail Krichman and Consolata Boyle respectively. It's the
combination of their work, and some gorgeous shots of the Irish
countryside that makes the film visually interesting to watch when the
direction and editing undermine performances. Yet they can't save the
film from being at times the one thing it shouldn't be: dull.

What are we to make of the film then? There's beautiful visuals and
performances, including some of Chastain's best work to date in a
career full of memorable performances. Yet the film is also treated
with a fragility that at times undermines the drama unfolding within it
as well as those aforementioned elements. It's an emotional drama that
is played in a fashion that is contradictory to its nature and renders
it at times utterly dull. In the end, the film is perhaps too much like
its title character: beautiful, fragile and a mess of contradictions.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not going to waste a bunch of your time. My wife and I watched this
on Netflix and both agree it was ridiculously, over-the-top, terrible.
It is as if they wanted to make the worst movie in movie making history
and hit a home run. Bravo!! Trust me, no matter how bored you are it's
not bad enough to watch this piece of crap. Go outside, go for a walk,
throw a ball around with your kid, pop a game in the X Box, lay on a
bed of nails, smash your head against a wall until you pass out... do
anything except waste two hours of your life on this piece of garbage.
Know that you have been warned and I feel like I have done my good deed
for the day. Gotta go wash my eyes out with soap now and do what I can
to unsee this thing!! Wish there were a zero star option!
<|_=00=_|>
Miss Julie is a very compelling piece, that cannot be denied. The
small, confined setting allows for this epic problem to play out in the
most stressful way possible. And the performances by both Jessica
Chastain and Colin Farrell are powerful in all of their subtlety and
rancor. The two characters are always perfect juxtapositions; one with
their innocence and the other with their malice. But which character is
which? This is never made clear as they both seem to jump into one of
the roles and back again. This leaves you more confused with the
arguments that follow and the events that take place, and with
questions that will forever remain unanswered. 

The problem that is the catalyst of the story isn't even, in my
opinion, the act that takes place halfway through the film. No. In fact
I believe it is the simple explanation that Farrell's character gives
Chastain about love. Those conversations are dangerous at the best of
times, and this just happened to be the worst of times. He bewildered
her at a time of innocence, and whether he was sincere or not is
irrelevant. The blow was struck. The two then panic and bounce between
what they should do after the fact, both trying to lay blame on the
other, neither realizing that it takes two to tango. 

You cannot help but pick a side while watching. Someone, whether it was
him or her, had to be the responsible one; Had to know when to stop.
But neither did, and so someone must take on the role of the villain,
because the world is black and white. At the end the loser is left to
his somewhat cruel fate while the "winner" is left to bask in his
victory and shy away from the guilt that will never truly relinquish
him of his part in the role. The characters search for absolution the
entire time, and even when they they've found it, they will not be
completely absolved.

For all of the power in this filmed play, I have to say that I didn't
like the material or the characters. Sexism, hatred, and sleaze take
center stage and leave all who are involved considerably diminished.
The ending will infuriate anyone with a soul and leave you questioning
the way society works. 5/10
