
"Some people build fences to keep people out, and other people build
fences to keep people in."

The first thing movie-goers should understand about Fences is that it
is very much a filmed play. An adaption of August Wilson's Tony-
winning play, director Denzel Washington has kept the project as
minimalist as possible. There's good reason for this. Wilson's words
are exciting enough that there is just no need for big action, large
sets nor grandiose cinematography. Fences is a small, intimate story
about Troy Maxson (Denzel Washington) and his close-knit circle of
family and friends. This small cast of characters is used to speak
volumes about how far the Black community had come in overcoming
prejudices by the 50s-era the story takes place in, but how far they
still had to go. It talks about the roles of husbands, wives and
children; the sacrifices we all make to support each other, often
giving up our own dreams but never losing sight of them.

Much has been said of the performances here, and with good reason.
They're terrific. Viola Davis will get her Oscar this year, there's
little doubt in my mind. Her Rose Maxson is so reserved and subtle for
much of the film, allowing Troy's continual imperfections and abuses to
store inside her and chip away at her emotionally until the final straw
causes her to erupt near the final act of the movie. It's an emotional
and painful performance to observe, and one many, particularly
long-time wives and mothers, will find easy to relate to but at times
difficult to watch.

As for Washington, I find it difficult to understand why he isn't the
front-runner for Best Actor this year. I've seen front-runner Casey
Affleck's performance in Manchester By The Sea and it is excellent and
look forward to Ryan Gosling's turn in La La Land; but what Washington
does in Fences is special. Simpy put, it's one of the best performances
I've ever seen an actor give. Troy is a very imperfect man to say the
least. He's not necessarily a "bad guy", in fact most men will be able
to see a little of themselves in Troy. He's a likable personality who
does some despicable things. HIs tough love approach to raising his son
seems more out of spite than love. And while there can be no doubt that
he loves Rose, his behavior proves that love and respect are not the
same thing. Washington crawls into this raw and complex character,
becoming Troy to the extent that no matter how big a star Washington
is, you forget you're watching an actor.

The supporting cast fairs well, particularly Stephen Henderson as
Troy's friend and work-mate Bono, Jovan Adepo as his son Cory and
Mykelti Williamson as his mentally-challenged brother Gabriel. Everyone
seems to be working their hardest to do Wilson's words justice, and
their efforts result it what may be the most overall well-acted film of
the year.

Fences won't appeal to everyone. Those looking for action and
extravaganza, this is not your movie. But if you're like me and enjoy
watching good actors perform a well-written script, then you'll be
enthralled by every minute of Fences.
<|_=00=_|>
First let me say that this is a powerful, engaging film. Seemingly,
however stereotypical, the opening of this movie feels like a stage
play exposition. Although moving forward I found myself increasingly
involved in the life of, to me, a thoroughly selfish, almost
despicable, protagonist. Denzel Washington inhabits his role as one
would fit into a perfectly tailored suit. The depth of his character
fits him like a glove. The dislike of his "Troy' is palpable. It is
Viola Davis' performance that gives us any acceptance, and even a
modicum of empathy, for his unrelenting dis- likability. Her 'Rose' is
a tour-de-force and one of the most honest performances ever put on
film.

I personally see it as less a film about a man coming to grips with
prejudice than as a damaged child trying to make sense of a world over
which he was unable to reconcile his life. In the greater scheme of
things, yes, he had a menial job, but he did have a job. He has a
family that he treats as possessions rather than people. When his son
accuses him of not wanting him to surpass his father in life, there is
a validity to the claim.

The direction, cinematography, music and period feel, with the
exception of an uneven opening, proves Washington a masterful film
maker. The difficulty in adapting a stage play to the screen is almost
overcome with only a few scenes playing like a filmed stage set.

If it were up to me both Denzel and Viola would receive the top 'Best'
academy awards with Denzel also receiving a nomination for best
director. Unfortunately the stiffness of the script, in my opinion,
should keep it from a best film nomination (although it will probably
get one). As a side note, it seems silly for Viola Davis to be entered
into the competitions in a supporting category. She is the strength of
the movie and in too many scenes to even be considered 'supporting.'
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't like this movie as much as I expected to. Sorry. The movie
centers around Troy Maxon (Denzel Washington), a father to two boys of
different mothers, a husband to Rose (played wonderfully by Viola
Davis) for the past 18 years, an ex-con, a garbage man, and above all,
an ordinary black man in the 1950's. 

No doubt it was a powerful script that most likely created an
incredible play but it was not meant for the screen. It was obvious
that it was a play, in the way they spoke and entered a room and
carried themselves in a scene. I, of course, have not seen the play so
I cannot speak with 100% certainty but I feel like the script wasn't
adapted for the screen at all. It's not like it needed any major
changes, just a few here and there to improve clarity. The passage of
time confused me throughout. A scene would end and it would be the next
day, then a minute passes and it abruptly jumps to six months later
with no indication. This could be a statement on how his life passed
quickly and routinely, but it felt like a swing and a miss for me. 

Viola Davis was wonderful. She deserves every award coming her way. I
could sing songs of praise about how magnificent she was. 10/10 for
her. Beautiful.

Denzel Washington was certainly egging for an Oscar as he did what he
did, but that's not degrading his performance. He did do good, but it
was a bit distracting when he stole the show and didn't really let the
other actors bounce off each other and him as much. It was all about
him. 

Even though I constantly found myself criticizing this movie, I did
like it. It had a magnitude that I cannot explain, otherwise I would've
given it a much lower rating. I recommend this if you are willing to. I
will warn you, it is tough to sit through a movie with no one to root
for. Washington's character is not a good person and very unlikable,
you don't really want to cheer him on.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanna start by saying this whole movie is one long conversation but
it never gets boring. This is like a Tarantino movie without the
action. I remember when watching it i thought this movie could be a
play for the theater. Then after watching it and reading it was a play,
i just thought it is hard to rate the movie without seeing the play,
but still. 

First of all I cant remember the last time Denzel Washington were so
great in a role, him alone makes this movie amazing, you can really see
it is very personal to him. Viola Davis were also incredible, and all
the actors i did not know were also really great. I wouldn't say it is
the best movie of the year but boy it comes close. I remember not
expecting much of it and therefore being stunned by how beautiful it
turned out to be. 

I don't want to give away the story so i am just gonna say that this
movie is a heartbreaking portrayal of a middle class working man in the
50's dealing with racism religion family and the need to matter. I pray
(not literally) that this movie at least win some Oscars for its
amazing performances and its literally amazing screenplay. This movie
is one of a kind and i hope you will think the same after watching it.
10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Just about any use of words you can
think of serves some part in this screen adaptation of renowned
playwright August Wilson's Pulitzer Prize and multiple Tony award
winning stage production. It first hit Broadway in 1987 with James Earl
Jones and Mary Alice in the leads, and the 2010 revival starred Denzel
Washington and Viola Davis Â– both who reprise their roles for the movie
version. It's also the third directorial feature from Mr. Washington
(The Great Debaters, Antwone Fisher).

The story takes place in mid-1950's Pittsburgh and is a family drama
character study centered on patriarch Troy Maxson (Washington), a
former Negro League star and ex-con, who now works days on a garbage
truck before coming home to his wife Rose of 18 years (Ms. Davis) and
their son Cory (Jovan Adepo, "The Leftovers"). The Friday night after
work ritual finds Troy holding court in his backyard with his best
friend and co-worker Bono (Stephen Henderson), as they share a bottle
of gin and pontificate on the injustices that have landed them in this
place and time.

Another regular Friday occurrence is the drop-in of Troy's son by his
first wife. Lyons (Russell Hornsby) is a musician who shows up on
payday for a "loan" from dad. To say there is tension between the two
would be an understatement, and it's the complex relationships between
Troy and everyone else that is the crux of the story. Another player
here is Troy's brother Gabriel (Mykelti Williamson), who periodically
wanders by talking about battling demons and hellhounds. See, Gabriel
suffered a severe head injury during WWII and now has a plate in his
head but no real place in society.

Troy is a proud and bitter man, unwilling to acknowledge that the world
is changing. Instead he holds firm to his belief that the white man
will always hold back the man of color. It happened to him in baseball
(though actually he was too old by the time Jackie Robinson joined the
Dodgers) and he refuses to believe Cory can succeed in football despite
his being recruited by a college. Troy jumps between charming and
caustic, and his fast-talking bellowing style can be entertaining,
enlightening, condescending and intimidating Â… sometimes all of the
above within a few sentences.

There is magic in the words of Austin Wilson, and as a film, this is a
true acting clinic. The performances keep us glued to the screen in
each scene. Denzel is a dominating presence, and the single best moment
belongs to the terrific Viola Davis. Her explosive release conveys the
agony-of-the-years, the broken dreams, and the crushing blow of broken
trust. As a viewer, we aren't sure whether to stand and applaud her or
comfort her with a warm hug. The only possible criticism might be that
the stage roots are obvious in the film version. The theatrical feel
comes courtesy of the sets which are minimal and basic with no visual
wow factor. But this minor drawback only serves to emphasize the
characters and their interactions.

It's pointed out to us (and Troy) that fences can be used to keep
things out or keep things in. During his pontificating, Troy uses a
couple of phrases more than once: "Living with a full count", and "Take
the crooked with the straight". He often waxes philosophical, and it's
through these words that we realize both he and Rose took their sense
of duty and responsibility so seriously that they both lost their
selves in the process. Making do with one's situation should not mean
the end of dreams and hopes, and it certainly gives no one the right to
hold back anyone from pursuing the path they choose. While watching the
actors, don't miss the message.
<|_=00=_|>
The acting in this film is outstanding. Denzel and Viola are truly at
their best and the consistency with which they convey the depth of
emotion required of them in this film is outstanding. To me, this was
the best part about the film. It was a little difficult to sit through
this one, mostly because it is a movie in which not much happens. Don't
mistake this as a comment from someone who loves action-packed movies
(although I do sometimes), but rather it plods along and neither has
very high highs or very low lows. As such, I drifted in and out of the
story and was still able to keep up. It is important story to tell, but
I can see how it was potentially better as a play. It is definitely
worth seeing, if nothing else for the superb acting.
<|_=00=_|>
Their is a reason why the Oscars has an award for best adapted
screenplay. Adapting a story from one piece of media to the next is an
art in it of itself. The writer has to take the story, that was based
around the limitations of the media it told, and put it in a new media
that different set of challenges. What happens if the writer simply
copies word by word from one platform to the next, you get Fences. 

The main problem with fences is that there is just there is just too
much information being told per scene. Characters have so much dialogue
that it is hard to keep up with the story. Audiences will get so
overwhelmed by the dialogue, that they're bound to miss some
information and that information can be important to the plot.This will
might cause confusion. The play can get with all this because the
actors are speaking directly to the audience and the audience is
actually seeing the actors. This means that audience will have a better
sense of the emotional context of the story and dialogue, but in a
movie that context is lost by the fact that they're staring at a
screen. 

This is too bad because everything else in movie is fantastic. This
movie has some of the best acting I have scene in cinema. The set
design really makes audiences feel a sense of lost hope. Even objects
have character based on what they represent on the story. The movie
seems to love symbolism and it is certainly powerful.I just wish their
were more setting in this movie. The majority of the movie only takes
place in one house. That can get boring because while the set is
interesting it is only one set, and that can lose its charm. 

If you like great acting and willing to put up paragraphs of dialogue
then see this movie, but if can't put up the long,unnatural ,and fast
dialogue with less than four setting then don't see this move.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was one of the most boring I've EVER seen in my life. It had
absolutely no point to it whatsoever. All I saw was people standing in
the backyard most of the movie talking about not much of anything. What
made it even worse was the fact that the main character was completely
self-centered and didn't care about anyone but himself, but all of the
characters are urged to show this man respect when all he was was a
walking selfish jerk. 2 hours and 13 minutes of a plot less movie where
the audience must endure over 2 hours of watching Troy do everything
wrong and still be looked at as a great man somehow. I just wish I
could get my $12 back along with those 2 hours of my life I lost.
<|_=00=_|>
When you pair up Denzel Washington with Viola Davis on screen, you know
you're in for two of the most outstanding performances you'll see all
year and that's exactly what you get from FENCES. That said, if only
director Denzel Washington and his crew could've figured out some ways
to lessen the stage play feel to it and make this seem more cinematic.
But then again, breaking out of that format is indeed usually the
challenge when dealing with straight up adaptations from stage plays,
just like "August: Osage County" a few years ago.

Scripted by August Wilson, adapted by Wilson's own Pulitzer
Prize-winning play, Denzel Washington plays an African-American father
struggling with race relations in the United States while trying to
raise his family in the 1950s. He's still bitter from his doomed
baseball career in the past, blames it on the white man, so when his
son tries to get into sports, he discourages him, telling him that the
white man wouldn't give him a single opportunity out there in the
field. Denzel's character's wife, played by Viola Davis, faithfully
stands by his side despite the secret that would change their family
forever.

Story-wise, it doesn't get more well-thought out than FENCES, it's
dialogue-driven, it's performance-driven, this material is every
actor's dream come true because it has so many layers and it provides
room for you to showcase the best version of your chops. We know Denzel
and Viola Davis are phenomenal, but FENCES allows them to venture into
places and show us shades that may not have been seen before. And I'm
sure it feels liberating for all the actors involved in this film to
just dig deep down, tap into those emotions and lay them bare for the
world to see, and there's no wrong way of doing it.

The conflicts in FENCES are powerful, like a fist through a wall.
Nuances surround the characters so you end up understanding where
they're coming from despite being in agreement or disagreement with
many of their decisions. To a certain extent, I think Quentin Tarantino
and Aaron Sorkin fans would find FENCES appealing since each of the
characters has incredibly long lines that run like 100 mph. Marital
affair, resentments, built up hatred, forgiving your past, there's no
shortage of drama in FENCES, its cup overflows. But again, as I said
earlier, I think there's a missed opportunity here, the film just
didn't do enough to make itself appear cinematic. Composer Marcelo
Zarvos' music is almost non-existent. Forget the backseat, many of
film's elements are practically locked up in the trunk.
<|_=00=_|>
Denzel Washington is clearly one of the best actors we have ever had,
African-American or otherwise. Whether it has been in serious,
sober-minded films like GLORY, MALCOLM X, and COURAGE UNDER FIRE, or
explosive action films like CRIMSON TIDE, MAN ON FIRE, and UNSTOPPABLE,
Washington has given all of himself, and then some. And then, like more
than a few great actors, he also itched to get behind, as well as in
front of, the camera as a director, which he did in 2002 with ANTWONE
FISHER, and again in 2007 with THE GREAT DEBATERS. He does double duty
again for one of the most insightful and true films of 2016, FENCES.

Scripted by noted playwright August Wilson from his own Pulitzer
Prize-winning play, FENCES stars Washington as an average Joe-type
sanitation worker in late 1950s Pittsburgh dealing with the world at
large. He had been a baseball player once before World War II, but it
never amounted to much; and when one of his sons (Jovan Adepo) wants to
get into football while going to college, Washington tries to steer him
away, managing only to alienate his son further than he already is.
Washington does have a good friend in Mr. Bono (Stephen Henderson), but
he is still troubled by a dark park of himself, one that threatens the
eighteen-year marriage between him and his wife Rose (Viola Davis).

Adapting stage plays to the screen is not exactly the easiest thing in
the world to do, because what works on a stage needs a great deal to
transfer it to a movie, and a real, breathing set. Fortunately,
Washington found a way of making it happen by filming in a part of
Pittsburgh that seems not to have changed all that much from the way it
must have looked in the actual time that FENCES is set. Wilson's stage
play and screenplay are full of language and slang that is very right
for the times, and, yes, this does include a profuse use of the 'N'
word. But a certain amount of uncomfortable language is what is
necessary for a story like this, especially given that it involves not
only Washington on both sides of the camera, but also another hugely
superb performance by Davis as his wife, who manages to somehow stand
by her man despite the horrible secret he reveals near the end. Equally
fine in supporting roles are Adepo and Henderson, as well as Mykelti
Williamson as a former war buddy of his whose mind isn't right because
of a severe head wound suffered in the war, and Russell Hornsby as
Washington's son by an earlier marriage who constantly comes to his dad
on payday for ten-dollar loans.

Though it is an African-American cast and story, FENCES works because
it feels universal, and it is a story that could happen in any family,
regardless of skin color or ethnicity. Washington and Wilson (who
passed away in 2005, and thus never saw FENCES make it to the big
screen) make this very clear but in a non-heavy-handed way, and with
dialogue scenes that are often long but never dull, earning it
justifiable and favorable comparisons to Arthur Miller's classic "Death
Of A Salesman".

All of these elements make FENCES easily one of the best films of 2016,
and a sure-fire winner likely to be regarded as a classic in a very
short time.
