
If you have played one of the video games for at least 45 minutes you
know that Agent 47 is all about discretion. DISCRETION!

It's all about how he blends in, how he hides in the shadows. If you
have to physically engage guards or any other people except your target
you feel like you did something wrong.

This movie was just an action movie that tries to get some of the
video-game franchise fans to pay for the ticket. Bu that's about it. So
instead of discretion, finesse, elegance... you have speed, force,
super-intelligence... Not bad but NOT AGENT 47.

Looking forward for a real Hit-man movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm very much a fan of the Hit-man games and was (again) shocked by the
sheer ignorance in this film. Obvious mistakes and plot holes were
apparent from the first minute; things like reloading guns only when it
looks cool, guards with their backs to the elevator, contradictions in
speech. Lack of a credibility of the entire storyline can be forgiven,
since it's still a dystopian video game and don't we all love a dame in
distress. The disrespect director Bach shows in ignoring the very
nature of the games (stealth) and treating the audience as idiots is
culpable. Most of the shots seem to have been made just to look good.
CGI was not too good but unlike the rest of the film, functional.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite good casting, very good performances, more than a correct
direction, camera work, sfx, editing and music, this movie is not
excellent. It has no soul, as previous version (with Timothy Olyphant,
2007) did. Comparison is inevitable. This is only an action movie: a
good bunch of action scenes and essentially a mindless fun. However, no
character development or an explanation who, why, where, when and so
on. Previous version had it all and if someone planned sequels (or a
franchise), they should have done it eight years ago. Then it would
make sense. Don't get me wrong here. This movie is not a bad one and
the cast gave it all to make it entertaining. But for me that is just
not enough, considering the template (video game) and possibilities to
develop a good idea into a more complex and challenging story. This
movie returns all to the level of the video game (maybe even below
that). I think that these characters deserve more. So do we.
Recommended for "set-brains-to-off" fun on a weekend afternoon.
<|_=00=_|>
I never expected anything more of this film than run of the mill action
with the Hit-man flavor. I was sorely disappointed. Firstly I felt like
the first hour or so of the film was a take on "The Terminator" with a
bit of a "Leon: The Professional" vibe too. There was even an
antagonist who had rejuvenating body armour like a Terminator cyborg.
He got shot plenty of times to kill him and even electrocuted but
wouldn't die. Agent 47 was basically reduced to a supporting character
and the "sixth sense" nonsense where the female protagonist learns to
harness her own Hit-man skills is laughable. Throw in the old "you're
brother and sister" and you've got your classic 1am made-for-TV
b-movie. However my greatest disappointment was at the end when they
take the HQ down and do all of this "in-sync" shooting with one
another, crossing arms etc... it was so cringe worthy. The only cool
part of the film for me was when I accepted she had a sixth sense of a
sort and at the very end where the female protagonist anticipated a
powerful army or special ops team of sorts coming up the stairs to get
them, when in fact it was Agent 48. Then the film ended. It was kind of
cool. I love Hit-man but was very disappointed although I do feel if
they ever make another one they need to have an actor who is
essentially a no-name because 47 is so blank in the face if you had a
famous person playing the character I feel you would lose your
suspension of disbelief. No disrespect to The Late Paul Walker who was
in talks to play the iconic video game character. Lastly I feel that
what the Hit-man games are about; stealth and creative ways to execute
contracts is not what an action films wants which is full on
shoot-outs. In the game Hit-man if you carried on the way they did in
this film (or the last to be honest) then you would lose so many points
for not being a "silent assassin" as he "goes loud" almost every time
in this. The need to go Nolan-Batman, dark themed if they were to
translate this into a successful film franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a fan of the Hit-man games for a long time, and this movie
is absolutely awful.

The actor who played Agent 47 is terrible. The story is awful. The
character of Agent 47 was the complete opposite of the character in the
games.

In the games, Agent 47 is methodical, stealthy and calculated. In this
movie, the character throws all of that out the window and turns the
movie into a typical shoot 'em up. So much terribleness. The first
Hit-man movie is much better.

This movie is so bad that all comments on the Facebook page are
positive, only because all negative comments get quickly deleted. Some
people have even had the audacity to say that this movie stays true to
the games. Other than the title and Agent 47's suit, nothing. Terrible!
Save your money.
<|_=00=_|>
5.8/10 from 28,215 users, I know it will be bad but I cannot help it
I have to watch it~! I have grew up with the love for the original
game. Unfortunately, some people like to take advantage of the fame of
good games, and make bad films, pulling many original fans into a
pitfall. I feel like a moth flying towards a fire will I get burnt?

6 minutes  terrible not even one game had such ridiculous action
going on + 47 doesn't even remotely look like the original 

8 minutes  another scene looks like a copy of John Wick (2014) but it
is much more cringe-worthy 

15 minutes  WTF is this s*** Aleksander Bach should be banned from the
film industry the guy has no clue 

51 minutes  I have decided to watch this film despite of the negative
ratings, in hope that I can say something good for a change but I
really cannot. It feels like a mixture of Terminator/Resident
Evil/Matrix films, but only when you take everything what is bad from
them 

1h 10minutes  the main character is quite likable, even when he
doesn't have much in common with 47

If I would rate it solely, on how truthfully they have presented agent
47 from the games, the rating would be -4 /10 Terrible from the
beginning to the very end, avoid like a poo.

tgchan's rating: 4 /10
<|_=00=_|>
So agent 47 the great, the fantastic the unhuman , what the hell is
this, i had the impression of watching a movie about metal gear solid,
agent 47 is silent, classy, a ninja et doesn't draw attention, in that
movie you see him has a beast, gun blazing shooting people not giving a
... there's somehow a guy made out of metal god what a shame. i wasn't
expecting a great movie either i'm not even surprised i was bored after
an hour watching that fake hit-man, plenty of car chase and shooting,
are we ever gonna get a great movie game EVER ?? please don't watch it,
there plenty of good movie that one isn't, i'm not giving more than one
the action scene almost made me puke with the shaky camera , it doesn't
represent hit-man at all.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great, big, steaming pile of tripe on your plate, so make of
it what you will. If you like it, I won't hold it against you.
Personally, I thought it was insultingly stupid at times, at least when
it wasn't completely screwing the original character over. When they
started harpooning cars, I just threw my hands up and said: "I give
up!" Please, no more of this. It. Was. Awful.

Mr. Friend, Mr. Kretschmann or Mr. Hinds aren't to blame. They
delivered their parts with their usual professionalism. Mr. Quinto was
okay too.

If you want to see a decent movie about Agent 47, watch "Hitman",
starring Timothy Olyphant. That movie is much better and much 'closer
to home', so to speak.

47 is an assassin, not a superhero, or even a hero, for that matter.

Just an assassin.
<|_=00=_|>
A straight forward Action Movie

I don't understand the low rating.. Honestly..

A postmodern bulk action movie, with a rather cold (cool) edge. With a
lot of stock actors (redshirts), tons of bullets, car chases and a
straightforward story.. Would make a great TV Show. Good entertainment
with agreeable acting. Rupert Friend is a believable fighting machine..
All in all a straightforward, no frill action with no higher
aspiration.. 

I did enjoy this compact gem.. 

Therefor I give it a solid 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Although it ain't saying much but the 2007 version is better than this
one. And it's not only because you get to see Olga Kurylenko topless
either. It seemed like they actually put some effort into the 2007
version of "Hitman" the movie. This one just seemed like a cheap
attempt. Just about every potential in this movie is wasted, such as
Zachary Quinto. The whole thing suffers from Paul W. S. Anderson's
direction when it comes to video game to movie form. Except it doesn't
stray that far from the source material. Audiences that doesn't know
about "Hitman" video games will find this movie odd for negative
reasons. And the gamers that know about this video game franchise will
be left disappointed. Because the actor that plays Agent 47 does not
resemble 47 besides the shaved head. And the way Agent 47 does things
in the video game is very very different. Kind of like how Paul W. S.
Anderson took a survival horror game into a straight up kung-fu action
movie with bullet time and people pulling off "The Matrix" maneuvers.
Watching this was like watching a crappy version of "The Terminator".
On a positive note, maybe it's because this movie is just 1 hour and 30
minutes but the characters weren't really annoying but they are still
easily forgettable. The hand to hand fight choreography was choppy but
alright as well. However I was just checking my watch throughout this
whole mess of a film, even though I try to give it a shot and see the
positive aspects of it. I have just seen way way better action movies
over this one. The whole premise and direction is lame and for a movie
that actually made it to theaters, the CGI in this is really bad.
Especially for a movie that made it to theaters in 2015. It's not
really worth a rental, but it wouldn't be a awful rental.

4/10
