
The fifth installment of Step Up is back in "Step Up: All In" with
introducing more inventive choreography from expert dancer crews and
containing almost all-star member of the series (minus Channing Tatum
of course) into a dance competition in L.A. The movie brings a first
class and entertaining show that is wanted from their fans. All the
dances and flash mob are taken beautifully that has already been a
trademark from all the series and what differentiates it from other
dance movie. 

Unfortunately there's a contrary and unbalanced between dance and whole
elements in this movie. "Step Up: All in" suffers with mediocre yet
predictable storyline, horrible written script, forgettable chemistry
and some average acting from it's entire casts. The movie focuses only
on the Vortex competition and how their ambition and preparations to
win this thing without care less about anything that would bring boring
moments and reduce emotional feelings for the character itself. In
other words, this film felt stunning when it related to massive
movements with loud R&B soundtrack mixed but once it touches drama and
storytelling stuff, it's just that awful. Overall, "Step Up: All In"
isn't a game-changer of the series, in fact it's definitely just a
similar movie from the previous franchise with this time L.A as the
background. It shows never-ending competition that is so exhausting to
see, but as long as it still delivers spectacle and great moves, it
seems would satisfy it's fans and safely stick them from their seats
until end credits appear.
<|_=00=_|>
One of these days Step Up will realize that it's better for the
characters to just whimsically dance like in old musical movie without
forcing an already stagnant plot. The movie boasts a dynamic
choreography and stellar music to go with it, some are timed just right
and they are admittedly entertaining. It commendably tries to bring a
dancer's perspective on their life style and tribulation, but the plot
often contradicts the effort by putting overly flamboyant characters or
tired plot. In the end it's just another drawn out excuse for a dance
battle, albeit a rather spectacular one.

Story revolves around characters from previous installments,
collaborating to make a crew to win the high stake dance competition.
No Channing Tatum though. If this sounds familiar, it is. There are
monetary issues, personal issues and dances in between. For what it's
worth, the two leads try to bring more emotion to the mix, although
only a few good moments come out of it. Adam Sevani (Moose) is a star,
the uncrowned lead of the series. It's quiet amazing that his side
story resonates more than the actual main plot.

Problem arises when the movie attempts to exaggerate flamboyant
lifestyle, especially those of celebrity's and their reality
television. It's far from witty; in fact the humor tends to fall and
becomes tiresome to watch. The main antagonists are mediocre unsavory
characters; the male is copied directly from the typical random thug
that messes with Chuck Norris or Steven Seagal at a bar, while the
female is a botched version of Stanley Tucci's character from Hunger
Games.

When the characters don't banter they perform well. Using odd props and
good dance moves, they manage to produce a spectacle. Most of the cast
are primarily dancers, so they convince the audience better using
motion than poorly written script. Wardrobe looks good, each dance is
represented with unique costume, the steampunk one is particularly
exceptional. With simple yet effective effect, these dance sequences
are the heights of the movie.

Like any other installments, the plot is almost a hindrance as audience
waits for another dance scene to erupt. It does try to make audience
relate, although it misses the mark more often than not, which is a
shame since it invests plenty of time for it. The glossy choreograph
and heart-thumping soundtracks present an enjoyable light flick, and to
be fair it's what viewer would expect, but sadly nothing more.
<|_=00=_|>
Everything about this movie sucked. Well, everything but the camera
work. Acting is horrible, the whole movie is illogical. Breaking into
dancing wherever - cops, security don't care. The forced drama and
childish behavior (did I mention poor acting?).

Prior installments were at least somewhat realistic, you had a
connection with the main character(s).. Not here. everything is just
lumped into one big mess of "big show".. 

and what's up with the Girl on Fire references? Couldn't come up with
something better?

very sad that we paid to see this garbage
<|_=00=_|>
Don't be fooled. This is not an actual movie. It is a dancing show! The
plot is minimal and cheesy. Young people who want to have a chance to
fame while doing what they love most. Dancing. Any other plot elements
like a couple of small dramas are short-lived and superficial.

Soooo, it all about modern dance. Pop music, hip-hop, breakdance.

In that department the "movie" is OK. If you aren't too much into it,
you may find your self bored near the end since the later moves are not
better than those at the beginning of th movie.

This is the 5th part of a series of films, but it doesn't matter if you
missed the previous ones.

Overall a dance spectacle more than a movie with lots of modern music
and some fancy acrobatic moves.
<|_=00=_|>
everything apart from the dance at moose's work place and the one at
the very end this film is just so so bad. the terrible directing and
messed up editing just make it feel like key parts have been left out
for no apparent reason, and as for the blatant theft of scenes from
countless other films like eminem on the bus in 8 mile, with the hoody
on an music playing as it drives along montage style, and many others
that i just cba to mention, just makes watching this un-original an
clichéd film unbearable. the one an only reason i watched it to the end
was to see what sexy costume briana evigan was gona be wearing in the
her next scene, other than that its total pap
<|_=00=_|>
I was having a good time watching this,just like the feeling i had
watching the previous one. Despite the lack of storytelling -which i
didn't really expect about it- the dancing scenes were all amazing and
satisfying for all step up fans.If they add water and electric element
to their dance moves on the previous movies,now they bring
fire,sand,and wind -yes,lots of wind-.The thing i like the most is that
the crews are back,your favourite characters like moose,jenny kido,and
andie.Thats what keeps me excited watching this movie,and as a step up
fan,im really satisfied.The final dance was breathtaking and
excellent.i couldn't stop listening to the soundtracks now.If you like
to dance and a feel-good movie,watch this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Sweet baby Jesus, lord Christ almighty, WHY DO THEY KEEP ON MAKING
DANCE MOVIES? THEY ARE ALL exactly THE SAME. let me illustrate... girl
moves to new city, girl meets boy, girl likes dance,boy likes girl,
girl plays hard to get.. every dances in some stupid competition, girl
and boy end up together... does this ring a bell??? THEY ARE ALL THE
SAME.. IDENTICAL.. NO VARIANCE. WHY DO they KEEP ON MAKING DANCE
MOVIES.. THERE IS Nothing THAT THEY CAN SHOW THE AUDIENCE THAT HAS NOT
ALREADY BEEN DONE.. OVER AND OVER AND OVER AND OVER AND OVER AGAIN...

Please stop making these movies. You already stepped in a toilet
already.
<|_=00=_|>
Step up All In is yet another failed attempt at making a feature film
simply by showcasing dancing talent. Well-choreographed movement was
also lacking throughout, although it endeavoured to entertain in the
last 15 minutes, and succeeded. The progression of the "story" was
constantly skipping over entire moments, with as little as one sentence
or a voice-over to catch the audience up to speed. Unfortunately the
acting was laughable, and not during intentionally comedic dialogue.
There were some good sporadic dance sequences intertwined between weak
performances from all involved. The only breath of fresh air was
"Moose" (Adam Sevani) and his beautiful parents, which added the
humility needed to make any of these plot progressions believable. For
fans of this franchise it may have managed to reach expectations,
although even they may tire of this regurgitated story and
predictability. In this over saturated dance-battle-extravaganza market
 it's time to step down. 

*/5 ***/10

By Rocio Belinda Mendez
<|_=00=_|>
How did a movie which received generally mediocre reviews on release
spawn an entire franchise? That's a weighty question about the foibles
and excesses of Hollywood that you can ponder while watching Step Up
All In, the fifth Step Up movie about a boy and a girl finding love
amidst the dance-breaks. As you might expect, it's as formulaic as they
come, with some decently-choreographed dance sequences that break up
the monotony of the film's so-called 'plot'.

Sean (Ryan Guzman) just wants to make a living as a dancer, but he and
his crew - the Mob - keep coming up empty at auditions. When everyone
else in the Mob finally decides to pack up and head back to Miami, Sean
stays in LA and resolves to enter The Vortex - a spectacular dance
competition that will guarantee its winners a three-year show in Las
Vegas. Sean sets out to find a new group of dancers, including
opinionated Andie (Briana Evigan), even as his buddy Moose (Adam
Sevani) wavers between his steady job as an engineer and his own desire
to cut loose on the dance-floor. But, once LMNTRIX is formed and makes
it into the finals of The Vortex, Sean's single-minded devotion to
winning starts to create tensions within the new group.

Along the way, there's shady Vortex host Alexxa Brava (Izabella Miko)
and nominal villain Jasper (Stephen Jones), a conspiracy to rig the
competition, and a budding romance - obviously - between Sean and the
sensitive Andie, who doesn't want to win so much as just enjoy her time
with her new dance crew. But it's all largely window dressing, packed
around a hugely predictable plot. Group members pull out for personal
reasons and return triumphantly at the last minute, characters learn
lessons about finding your own kind of victory in a difficult world,
people dance to fall in love and forget their problems.

The cast is mostly dutiful, yet lacks the spark and charm that so
evidently set Channing Tatum on his route to stardom after the original
Step Up. Guzman is handsome but, in playing his pivotal role, doesn't
manage to muster up much in the way of emotion. Evigan is more
effective as Andie, hinting a little at the tragedies and pain that go
into dancing everyday for a living, while Sevani provides good comic
support as Moose.

At least the dancing is fun to watch. Every so often, characters stop
to cut a rug, and some of it is genuinely quite thrilling. The final
performance by LMNTRIX (and others) is a spectacular choreography blow-
out that gleefully encompasses everything from sand and fire to
acrobatics, even as it wraps everything up in a pretty, predictable
bow.

If you're looking for revolutionary, thought-provoking cinema, Step Up
All In is very much not the movie for you. This is fluff of the first
order - and not even of the first grade - that might occasionally
entertain the unconverted and will certainly thrill long-time fans, but
is unlikely to do a great deal more than that.
<|_=00=_|>
Away from Miami into another dance competition that is. This is a
direct sequel to the last Step up, which hadn't happened yet. The
character Moose seems to be in all of them (and he is except for the
first one, even if you could swear he was in every single one of them,
like I did and thought), but other than that, there didn't seem to be a
string/continuity apart from a story that seemed to be the same over
and over again ... something a reviewer has stated here ... forgetting
that Step Up Revolution tried to break the formula.

If that was successful or not we do get most of the same players (good
guys) from the previous one, still looking for a job (and love
apparently). And that's where this gets back to the classic story. With
one minor "dent" if you want to call it that, which gets fixed by the
end of it. There are some slick moves and I'm pretty sure some of the
things will look great in 3D (only watched it in 2D though). Don't
watch it for originality, only if you like the "genre"
