
Hot Tub Time Machine is one of my favorite "stoner" comedies. I know it
doesn't technically fall under that category but the style of humor is
similar to movies like Harold & Kumar in that it's dumb humor,
gross-out gags, and just unbridled ridiculousness. And that's fun to
me. Hot Tub Time Machine 2 keeps that same formula but unfortunately
it's missing a few key things that made the first one so great.

First is the novelty factor. We've seen these guys time travel before
so the whole "explaining time" aspect isn't all that interesting.
Second, there's no consistency. The first movie had a plot - it was an
adventure from start to finish and you were with these characters the
whole way. It was straightforward and it worked. Here, they try to save
Lou from being killed by going back in time to stop the killer, but
instead they go forward in time and apparently the killer is from that
time and ended up going back in time to kill Lou, or something. It's
just a dumb convoluted plot. Not that plot is important in a comedy; it
just helps to have some sort of narrative to follow instead of scene
after scene of ridiculousness. 

And third and most importantly, Hot Tub Time Machine 2 is missing John
Cusack. He held the first movie together like glue. He played Adam, a
likable everyman that the audience could relate to, and it helped that
he had some of the funniest lines in the movie. This movie is all over
the place without him. Lou is now the main character, and as much as I
love Rob Corddry, his character gets really old really fast. His entire
character revolves around gross-out humor and shock value, and it
worked wonders in the first HTTM because Adam's sense of reason helped
balance it out. Jacob is now the only voice of reason but he's Lou's
son and serves as the punch-line to a lot of jokes in the movie.
Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't.

Adam Scott is the newcomer playing Adam Jr., the son of John Cusack's
character. The gang meets Adam Jr. in the future and he ends up going
on the adventure to find Lou's killer with them. I love Adam Scott and
he was fine in this movie, but he didn't really add anything noteworthy
to the group's dynamic. He plays a geeky character who's about to get
married, then on their adventure as you can imagine, drugs get consumed
and mistakes are made. He definitely provides some laughs, and the
group is still enjoyable to watch for the most part, but you can
definitely feel a void in the character department.

The most important thing about a comedy is obviously the laughs, and
this movie has a few. Much of the dialogue feels like shock value for
the sake of being crude. Again, it works sometimes. Other times, not so
much. Everything was done better in the first film. This definitely
feels like a cash grab movie, especially since they didn't even bother
asking John Cusack to return because they knew they'd have to pay him a
sh*tload of money (although he does have a nice little cameo in the
unrated version). But all in all, it's not terrible. It's a
run-of-the-mill raunchy comedy with some funny moments and a lot of
disgusting ones. It's worth maybe a one-time watch - if you were a fan
of the first one you'll find some good chuckles here and there, and if
you haven't seen the first one then you might enjoy this even more
because you have nothing to compare it to. 

As far as sequels go, it could have been a lot worse. The fact remains
though that Hot Tub Time Machine 2 was simply unnecessary.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw Hot Tub Time Machine back in 2010, I was pleasantly
surprised. It was an entertaining buddy movie that yearned for
something more, that came packaged with a soul and an ethos, and with
its powerful heart, it took great strides to comfort us and lead us on
a journey toward self-discovery and catharsis. Hot Tub Time Machine was
as much an exercise in great dark comedy as it was a purge of all that
was wrong in our lives, and it came loaded with characters that were
funny yet so very human. It had all the markings of a truly great
movie, and one could tell it was a labor of love, carefully crafted by
an adept team.

Hot Tub Time Machine 2, on the other hand, casts itself far astray from
its predecessor. In this sequel, we find our regular cast of characters
(Rob Corddry, Craig Robinson, and Clark Duke  John Cusack is absent
this time around) living the good future they've carved out for
themselves in their last outing. But they're unhappy. Ego and wealth
has seized hold of them, and in Corddry's case, has turned him into a
frustratingly awful monster that no one, not even his wife or son, can
stand. It's during the middle of a party where Fate propels them on
another adventure, as a cloaked assassin shoots Corddry in the family
jewels. The team rallies together and plunges through the pool of time
to find this assassin and halt a "friend's" murder.

Along the way, our protagonists meet up with Adam Scott, cast as a
replacement to and a bastard child of John Cusack's character. And it's
through Scott that Robinson, Duke, and Corddry discover they weren't
just propelled into the future, they were cast onto an alternate time
line, a recurring joke intended to spoof several popular movie
franchises as of late, most notably The Terminator franchise. After a
convoluted exposition and an overdone foundation for time travel,
hilarity ensues.

So the audience waits. And waits. And waits. The sounds of candy
wrappers and teeth mashing popcorn echo off the walls of the theater. A
few people cough. Someone blows snot into tissue paper. A cell phone
warbles the classic Power Rangers theme through a pair of jeans. But no
one laughs. The audience is so stoic, I find myself wondering if I
accidentally stumbled into a screening of American Sniper. Nope. Rob
Corddry is on screen vomiting penis jokes at a mile a minute. And no
one is laughing.

It's like this for most of the movie. Every twenty minutes I might hear
a slight chuckle, but this theater is mostly a mausoleum. Saint Peter
is before us, showing us the last endeavors of director Steve Pink and
writer Josh Heald before their careers died. It's a lesson for us, a
morality play on cashing in with an undeserving sequel.

"Hot Tub Time Machine 2 is lazy," Saint Peter tells us. "It's a bucket
of unused jokes thrown at the screen in disarray, hoping  nay, praying
 something sticks. It's a good thing John Cusack knew well enough to
stay away, but the devils who made this had to go ahead and drag Adam
Scott into this disaster." There's a scene midway through Hot Tub Time
Machine 2 where Scott trips on psychotropic drugs. He puts this thing
called an "electric ladybug" on his neck, which is little more than a
bug-shaped microchip. Scott trips for hours and hours, and it's an
excuse for the creative time to play with different lenses and editing
tools. As I'm watching Scott make a goof of himself for the camera, his
head twisting and turning into odd shapes while he makes faces, I
couldn't help but feel sorry for him. Here he is, having the time of
his life, and we're staring at him like a bunch of old people on a
bench with nothing better to do  arms folded and hell bent on
people-watching.

What's even sadder is Scott's whole motivation, as a character, is to
find his dad. The movie teases us with John Cusack references
frequently, whether it's the group of friends finding Cusack's trench
coat or his boxed memories of "Cincinnati" (a point of furious
indignation in the first film) or Scott, holding up Cusack's photo,
bemoaning the ills of being a fatherless son. And whether or not this
teasing was meant to be a joke, there's no delivery, and there's no
punch line. Hot Tub Time Machine 2 dangles the carrot of a missing
character, arguably the one who brings the cathartic element to the
previous film, above our heads for an hour and a half and offers
nothing for solace. Much like the rest of the movie, there's no sense
of closure, no real turning points or soulful characters on a quest to
better themselves.

Hot Tub Time Machine 2 isn't another darkly comedic exploration of the
human condition. It's just junk food, and even as junk food, it doesn't
taste very good. The jokes are half-assed and the script is unpolished.
It's a last minute effort to capitalize on a movie that built quite a
sizable fan base.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a big fan of the first Hot Tub Time Machine, which was Back to
the Future meets The Hangover. It was funny and raunchy, had four leads
you get invested in, and tells an entertaining story. It's ending left
me wanting more, so I thought a sequel would be awesome. When I heard
John Cusack was not in this, my feeling for it left little excitement,
and the trailer didn't much for me either, but I wanted to give this
the benefit of the doubt.

The movie pretends to have a plot, but it's an excuse for gross out
gags. Like Movie 43 although not as awful. John Cusack I really missed,
there was chemistry with the cast in the first film, with him gone it
just breaks down the chemistry. Adam Scott is funny in a few scenes as
Cusack's son, but he looks so out of place. Rob Corddry is awful, his
craziness is amped up to 11,it's like the writers felt he was too
subtle in the first one. And Rob Corddry can be funny, if given the
right jokes. Craig Robinson looks incredibly bored, and Clark Duke does
try but goes nowhere.

I'd rather watch the first film and pretend that this sequel does not
exist.
<|_=00=_|>
The first Hot Tub movie was funny. Sometime you should leave well
enough alone. The entire movie pushed the envelope of X rated junk. The
D word; F word; men's private parts basically was the entire script.
The actual movie was probably 30 minutes long. The rest was inane
dialogue you find when there is no real material for a script The movie
rambles on trying to find out who killed Lou. The script appears
aimless as the four friends journey through wild parties;obsession with
penis and any other debauchery the writer can come up with. This movie
is truly a sequel let down. Cheap laughs will be had by teenagers and
porn customers. If you do not fall into either category save your money
and stay clear of this movie. It isn't even worth "on demand"!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
"Hot Tub Time Machine 2," the sequel to the critical and box office hit
from 2010, proves definitively that if at first you DO succeed, don't
try again.

As Part 2 opens, we find that two of the original time-trippers (Craig
Robinson, Rob Corddry) have parlayed their earlier visit back to 1986
into fame and fortune in 2015 (a third, Clark Duke, is pretty much the
"butler" to his successful dad). John Cusack, the fourth member of the
group, has wisely chosen to take a pass on this misbegotten reunion. He
clearly used the hot tub to attain the foreknowledge that this
particular venture had disaster written all over it.

Now the remaining trio has to travel ten years into the future to
prevent Corddry's assassination in the present (don't ask). Adam Scott
("Parks and Recreation") and Gillian Jacobs ("Community") join in the
festivities, though we suspect they'll not want to emphasize this
particular part of their resume in any future auditions.

The screenplay by Josh Heald is, to put it mildly, a bit of an
incoherent mess, short on logic and humor and long on jokes involving
punctured testicles, spurting semen and homosexual rape. There is one
funny scene in which the three look into a mirror to see their true
selves in 2025, but the writer seems to have saved most of his best
material for a clever and amusing end-title sequence. Whether it's
worth the ninety minutes of dreck you have to sit through to get there
is something you'll have to determine for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Who really went into this expecting a masterpiece? Was the first one
any better? Nah, not really. Sequels always face harsh criticism, but
as far as ridiculous movies with sequels go, this one really isn't that
bad. Lighten up, it's a comedy.

I got a lot of laughs from this movie. I got a lot of laughs out of all
the "future" advancements we've made as a society. From "smart cars"
that get the O.K. to execute people, the scary (but kinda fun looking)
club scene, to the hilarious TV shows we all (probably legitimately)
have to look forward to. The end credits are also worth sticking around
for, these fools changing American history in photographs is just fun.

Most of the criticisms I've read here are about bad plot, stupid
storyline, etc... Quit trying to be some newspaper critic. You're not
going to get recruited to a "My BFE Town Today" column off Amazon. It's
a silly movie, if you expected more, you should stick to the films that
are worthy of judging and criticism.

If you want some laughs, with actors you don't expect anything else
from, give this movie an hour and a half of your time.
<|_=00=_|>
I actually don't remember if I found that the first Hot Tub Time
Machine movie was funny or not but what is for sure is that the second
Hot Tub Time Machine a piece of garbage is. It is supposed to be funny,
that's what comedy is about. And I don't know what they tried at every
second of the movie, but it for sure was not funny at all. I laughed
once during the whole movie, and even that laugh was kind of forced. It
is probably one of the worst comedies I ever saw in my life, and I can
tell you I saw a lot of awful movies. Adam Scott is probably one of the
least funny actors in the business. I don't know if it's just me but in
Parks and Recreation (that I absolutely love by the way) he is also the
weakest link. That guy is just not funny at all, and I don't get why
they make him play comedies because it won't ever work with him. Rob
Corddry was also extremely unfunny and annoying. How this movie can
still get a 5.1 rating is beyond me. It's a disgrace to real comedies.
I rather watch paint dry then watching this garbage again.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the worst movies I've every seen. The original set a low bar,
but it had a plot, decent acting, and some humor. HTTM2 has none of
these. Corddry's character is among the most unlikeable you will
encounter, so when he's the main man you know things are way off. Most
others are sleepwalking through their roles, wondering when it's over
so they can get their paychecks. The "jokes" are mainly crude outbursts
with no setup or relevance.

If televised virtual man-rape is your thing, then maybe you'll like
HTTM2. Otherwise, at some point well before the ending you'll be
wishing for a HTTM to take you back before you started watching so you
can avoid this dreck entirely.
<|_=00=_|>
I laughed twice while watching this movie. This movie has absolutely no
redeeming value. None of the characters are likable. The main character
is downright rotten.

I wouldn't even recommend waiting for the DVD. My advice would be to
skip it altogether. I wish I could go back in time and not watch this
movie. Don't say you weren't warned. It'a darned shame because I loved
the first movie.

The best part of this movie is when it ends. The next best part is the
closing credits. I think the writers used more imagination with the
credits than they did with the actual script.
<|_=00=_|>
I have lost time out of my life. This film is an abysmal mess. I
watched it first for 15 minutes and could not take anymore. And, a
month later, I tried to continue watching the movie, but could not even
watch another 5 minutes before pulling the plug or smashing my TV. The
storyline straddles between the absurd and the overtly obnoxious. Joke
sequences are improvised and spliced together with what seems like bad
takes. 

I am not a complainer. I like stupid movies like Blades of Glory and at
my worst enjoyed Rob Schneider's, Benchwarmers, but this film is in the
gutter along with dirty syringes and runoff resulting in a complete
waste of time. 

There can not ever be a spoiler alert for this movie because nothing
can be spoiled in it. In my opinion only, a hunk of garbage with
festering vegetables and rotting meat is a good way to explain how I
feel about this movie. And the fact that IMDb requires more than ten
lines of text for reviews makes me even more upset considering the
additional time I have wasted writing this review.

I leave good reviews when warranted, but there is no reason for a good
rating here. Any review more than one star should not be taken
seriously. Moving on.
