
Absolute Dogsh*t is a term that cannot be used enough to describe this
movie. I hated the characters (especially the tw*t of a husband), the
stupid shaky-cam, the "scares", the pathetic sub-plot of an ancient
cult, the trailer that gave away absolutely everything, and did I
mention the tw*t of a husband? No doubt there'll be a sequel, and
another, and another. Remember when there were actually good horror
found-footage films? Me neither. Hollywood is just saturated with them,
none of them good. A complete and terrible rip-off of Rosemary's Baby.
Just don't watch it. If I could give it a minus rating I would.
Definitely in the category of one of the worst movies I've ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>
This was really deceptive marketing and hype that drew me into this
movie. I am very sorry I went. The acting, directing, production
design, continuity, editing and of course the story, screen writing and
execution were just abysmal. There was nothing of quality in this film.
The characters were stupid, the camera work was jarring "handheld
reality TV" nonsense and on top of it all, the plot was told in a far
superior manner by Roman Polanski in "Rosemary's Baby" forty years ago!
It just shows that with some production money, a digital camera and
some reality-TV "Blair Witch"/"Paranormal Activity"-type marketing
approach, you can sell any kind of garbage to the American public. I
urge you not to support this film, or any future endeavours of anyone
involved with this project (cast, crew, director or screenwriters)....
<|_=00=_|>
During their honeymoon, newlyweds Samantha and Zach couldn't be
happier, however upon waking up one morning, they have no recollection
of what happened the night before. It isn't too long after returning
home that the happy couple find out they are having a child. But during
a time of what should be pure happiness soon turns into a nightmare as
the couple find themselves being watched and Samantha begins exhibiting
strange behavior.

Devil's Due is yet another entry in the found-footage genre. The film
can be considered an almost younger generation and found-footage
version of Rosemary's Baby. However, this film has no chance in hell
(no pun intended) of reaching the status of the classic horror film. It
doesn't even stand a chance of reaching Paranormal Activity status. The
story may be interesting, but the film itself is just plain boring.
There is no intensity and no atmosphere whatsoever. Throughout the film
we just see Samantha becoming more and more hostile with random and
clich√©d jump scares thrown in. And a lot of the creepy moments end up
being humorous than anything. By the time we reach the climax of the
film where (as usual) all of the real action occurs, it's over before
it even begins.

Despite the film's boring outer layer, we are given some pretty good
performances by our two leads. Zach Gilford brings a lot of charm to
the role of Zach, at the first of the film he's the goofball husband
that everyone will seem to adore. But when things start getting serious
we see Gilford switch gears into the concerned husband and he does a
fairly good job of it. Allison Miller plays Zach's wife Samantha. Like
Gilford, Miller shows the sweet and innocent side of her character and
we ultimately love her too, but when she needs to show Samantha's
gradual change of behavior, she has a few moments where she could have
gave it more of a boost, but otherwise she gives it what she can and
it's satisfactory enough. The two also have great chemistry together,
which also helps the audience care for and root for the two characters.

Devil's Due may be a huge snooze fest and won't leave a mark on the
found-footage genre, but it at least has two decent lead actors to keep
it from being a total disaster.

My Rating: 3/10
<|_=00=_|>
The orphan Samantha (Allison Miller) gets married with Zach McCall
(Zach Gilford) and they travel in honeymoon to Santo Domingo. In their
last night in the Dominican Republic, the newlywed couple is invited by
a taxi driver to go to a party in the outskirts of Santo Domingo. They
drink too much and do not see that Sam is brought to a weird cult. They
return to the United States and soon Sam discovers that she is
pregnant. Along the pregnancy, Sam changes her behavior and becomes
nervous and aggressive. On the night of the delivery, Zach witnesses
weird events at home. 

"Devil's Due" is a lame and cheap movie that uses the same storyline of
"Rosemary's Baby". This rip-off could have the title "How to Destroy
the Storyline of a Masterpiece with a Hand-held Camera and an Absurd
Plot". Sam and Zach accepting to go to a slum in an unknown country
with a stranger are among the greatest stupidities of the cinema
industry. The new doctor uses the office of Dr. J. Ludka and no
receptionist or nurse notices. The house of Sam and Zach is completely
destroyed in a calm neighborhood and no neighbor observes. The use of
camera as if it were Zach is nonsense in most of the situations. My
vote is two.

Title (Brazil): "O Herdeiro do Diabo" ("Devil's Due")
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I am a big fan of the found footage supernatural/horror
genre and love watching even the lesser acclaimed films. I am the type
of viewer that draws the positives out of a very flawed film and enjoy
it. So I expected to enjoy something out of this at the very least. 

My god, what a tediously insufferable film this turned out to be.

There is absolutely no innovation or any attempt to try something new.
It is so painfully boring.

The concept idea was very promising which is basically a found footage
rendition of The Omen or Rosemary's baby. However, this film is so dire
at engaging the audience due to the most irritable protagonist I have
ever seen so far in a found footage type movie. For more than half of
the movie, we are tortured with the sickly saccharine antics of a
doting husband on his newly wed wife. There is no natural humour to
ease the torment and worse for a film of this type, there were actually
no scares until the last act.

As I said, I am the type of film goer that draws the positives and try
enjoy that. So are there any? Well, there is a dog that was amusing for
2 seconds but even he looked bored, thereafter. OK, there is a bit more
positives. You do get a predictable climax in an attempt to "reward "
us for our eternal patience which was efficiently executed but without
any unique vision or flair, just the usual creep around corridors
and..."boo" oh it was just the dog sort of thing. The actors do perform
well but the material they have to work with is revolting.

At the end of the credits there is a piece of text explaining that this
film created 200,000 jobs. Well that was nice to know and the only bit
that made me feel good knowing that at least it gave a lot of people
work but then I wonder if stating that was an indirect apology and
their justification to make this dreadfully boring movie?

TO be fair, the film is as polished as it can be for a found footage
genre but its all pointless if it fails to engage us in the narrative. 

If you haven't seen many horror films or supernatural films such as
Paranormal Activity etc, then perhaps you might enjoy this more as long
as you can stomach the vomit inducing newly weds for half of the movie. 

I give this a 3/10 rating, mostly for the dog that looked fairly
convincing in not wanting to be in the movie. Get a new agent doggy,
you deserve better.
<|_=00=_|>
Samantha and Zach get married. For their honeymoon, they went to visit
the Dominican Republic. One night there, they were brought by their
taxi driver to a mysterious place where they get drunk and drugged.
Nevertheless, they still managed to get back home safe and sound. 

Not long after, Samantha finds out she was with child. From there, the
further along the pregnancy Samantha got, the more bizarre and more
violent behavior she would display. As she nears her due date, can Zach
still do anything to avert the diabolical fate that seems to await his
wife and baby?

Like many current horror films, "Devil's Due" is told through camera
footage. Aside from the cameras Zach and characters carried around,
there was also footage from security cameras. The first thirty minutes
were practically just needless wedding coverage. 

When it got around to telling the story, the pace was also quite slow.
Mundane daily events like going to the supermarket or the obstetrician
were punctuated by some disgusting or violent scenes which would have
been a big deal had it happened in real life. Here, they happened, but
there seemed to have been no consequences that follow their occurrence.

The best moments of this film were those scenes showing Samantha's
repulsive eating habits, her super-telekinetic powers, and her effect
on Catholic priests. The rest of the film was unfortunately
forgettable, all the way up to the predictable climax. 3/10.
<|_=00=_|>
"Devil's Due" follows a young newlywed couple who find out they're
expecting a child after returning home from their honeymoon in the
Dominican Republic. Shortly into the pregnancy, mother-to-be Allison
begins having unusual symptoms, and it appears that she and her husband
are being watched by some sort of secret society who are awaiting the
birth of one of the "many" antichrists.

Cleverly prefaced with scripture from John, "Devil's Due" sets out on a
road oft-followed in the found footage sub genre of horror films,
charting terrorized couples and Satanic magic wreaking havoc on
suburbia. That said, the film has a few interesting aspects; first off,
it's not really a "found footage" film. Although much of the narrative
is dispensed through home video footage which is recorded by the couple
themselves, the film also utilizes surveillance footage from public
spaces as well as the cameras secretly placed in their home to help
tell the story. In other words, it is not a film claiming to be a "true
story" "discovered" as a cohesive piece of found footage. It's in all
actuality a fairly standard horror movie that is told through the
medium of hand-held video and surveillance without the claims of being
real or "found", and for that, I found the film mildly refreshing. I
roll my eyes every time I see a found footage horror film claiming to
be reality ("The Devil Inside" comes to mind), but "Devil's Due" makes
no bones about anything of the sort, and in that sense is very much
aware of itself and doesn't rest solely on its pretensions.

Secondly, I can't not praise the acting in this film. The other
downfall of most "found footage" films is that they star unknown actors
who often have little experience and/or talent, and thus tend to have
less-than-stellar acting, which just cheapens films that are already
cheap to begin with. That's not the case with "Devil's Due". Zach
Gilford plays the concerned husband role both behind and in front of
the camera, and is convincing in the role; however, Allison Miller is
the one who really carries the film. Her performance in this was
wonderful in general, and especially wonderful in a film of this type.
Very naturalistic and totally believable. My praise even goes for the
minor roles; all of the acting in the film does feel genuine, which
really elevates this above other hand-held horror fare.

Narratively, the film is definitely imperfect. Some people have claimed
the film is boring, which, while it does take time to get going, the
slow burn nature of it allows for some subtle scares to creep in over
an extended period (also, there isn't much for jump scares here either,
which I was really surprised by). That said, the film does lack steam
at times, and propels itself into a conclusion that doesn't reveal as
much excitement or surprise as the preceding 80 minutes would lead you
to believe is coming. The finale is pretty weak, and follows a pattern
that's been done before in other found footage genre films. That's not
to say that a horror film requires a twist ending to be worthy (which
this film surprisingly doesn't have), but there's not a whole lot of
payoff in terms of anything truly shocking or nuanced occurring in the
film's final act, and for that, it is predictable. There's a lot of
build-up for a pretty mediocre ending.

All things considered, "Devil's Due" is an oddball in the sub genre in
which it's been placed. The film doesn't make any claims to reality,
doesn't ascribe to jump scares or a surprise ending, has shockingly
worthwhile performances, and, most importantly, isn't actually a "found
footage" movie at all. The references to "Paranormal Activity" and
"Rosemary's Baby" are indubitable, and despite the film's burnout
ending, I still was mildly happy with it, probably because it did the
opposite of what I expected it to do in a lot of ways. The flip side of
that is that the film doesn't have much in way of surprises, but the
above-average performances and a handful of crafty scenes elevated it
above any other hand-held and/or found footage horror film to come out
in the past five years. 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Another film where the camera tells the story! A cult looks for couples
which the cult victimizes the couples with a nasty pregnancy. What
works is the actors and director comes across as real life. I like how
the characters' behaviour is detailed with little quirks. Devil's Due's
strongest asset is the story's linear progression of events slowly
getting worse. As usual the story's protagonist pieces together the
bizarre event too little to late. Devil's due is another homage similar
to Blair Witch and the Paranormal series. The originality of the camera
telling the story genre is getting old. Still a watchable movie. I give
Devil's Due a six or seven out of ten. Depending if you like horror
movies. Does everyone always have to expire in these films?
<|_=00=_|>
If you don't like "found footage" movies than this might not be for you
but if you're okay with movies like Chronicle and Cloverfield then I
think you'll really enjoy this movie. But it's more like a really sad
love story than a crazy horror movie.

It made me laugh a little at first and then it made me really tense and
nervous. It was creepy the whole time. And I felt for the couple all
the way through. They were great actors.

Most people seem to write this off because it's "found footage" but the
movie seems to flip that like Chronicle did and doesn't need the
footage to have been found by anyone. I don't usually have a problem
with "found footage" anyway and I respect the use of cameras in this
because they always had cool ways to do it without explaining it to me
over and over like I'm stupid, like they do in Chronicle. My friends I
saw it with missed the hidden cameras getting installed and the lapel
camera the husband wears and so they didn't like it but if you watch
closely it's all pretty well explained.

This isn't the best movie I've ever seen but it's a lot better than
people say.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh the irony. I am a true horror fan from way back. I love it all
except for the rage of "found footage" "hand cam" horror. The Blair
Witch Project was brilliant and since then film makers have been
beating this style of film to death and beyond. I am sick of it quite
frankly. I won't even go out of my way to watch one and usually when I
find out a horror flick is "found footage" it gets shut off. But I
wanted to see this one through. The irony is how poorly this is scored
on IMDb. I thought this was world's better than the awful Paranormal
Activity: Marked Ones and the truly unfortunate thing is if they had
bothered to make this just a regular old horror film it could have been
terrifying and thrilling and a possible ten because the performances in
the movie border on excellent believe it or not. The story is stale...I
will agree with many others. We have seen this story done again and
again and again (thank you Rosemary's Baby and The Omen.) However, for
being same old it is well written and follows the necessary predictable
recipe. It actually got to the point where I was literally saying out
loud what was going to happen next. This sounds like ear mark of a
terrible movie but it wasn't terrible. I wanted to know where the story
was going, what was going to happen with this young, formerly happy
couple and I did feel some heart palpitations with some scenes so bravo
to them for that. I am certain if you switch the lights out and sit
back you'll be at least a little scared.

Part of the reason I think the film was so much better than it should
have been was our lead cast and couple. Allison Miller is excellent as
Samantha, the mother to be. We are introduced to her the night before
her wedding so by the time the changes take effect we sort of see how
different she is. She seems like such a happy and normal woman who you
can relate to. She plays it very down to earth making her
transformation terrifying and she really does a great job. Its a shame
she's wasted on an uber-generic found footage horror. Not to be outdone
in any way Zach Gilford is also very good as her doting husband.
Gilford gets less scenes in front of the camera because he is often
behind it filming (how irritatingly stupid.) He also does a terrific
job and his intensity in the later scenes really holds the film
together. The two of them have truly outstanding chemistry and it
really gives this film a lot of credibility to have them in it. There
isn't a big supporting cast and no one stands out amongst them but I
will mention I love character actor Sam Anderson who has a small and
very creepy role as Father Thomas.

Honestly, they could have made this one of the best horror films of
2014 if they just filmed it like your every day movie. Every scene I
kept thinking this would be so much better, more terrifying and just
more fun to watch if it weren't through the supposed eyes of a home
movie camera. It shouldn't surprise me though that the directors behind
this were also the people responsible for V/H/S a movie I gave a total
of ten minutes too before I shut it off. This is superior to V/H/S but
they also got a much bigger budget. The only other glaring issue with
Devil's Due is it goes on too long. It is the average movie length but
you begin to feel like the same thing is happening over and over again.
Even during the climatic scenes when all hell breaks loose (pun fully
intended) it seems to just keep going when it should get to the point.
Still the ending is not disappointing and I found myself wide eyed more
than once. Finally when the baby is born...well it's all kinds of
messed up and the scene is more than disturbing. Devil's Due is
different from something like Paranormal Activity because I don't think
they're trying to make you feel like its real. There are some pretty
outrageous scenes of telekinetic ability and devil possession that
would have best suited a regular horror film (I'm never going to let it
go.) Still if you are a fan of the found footage genre...first of
all...I'm sorry that you are but this one is of a much better quality
than the other junk out there. You could do far worse and while I would
never watch it again I enjoyed my first viewing. 6.5/10
