
I have been looking forward to Blackhat for a couple of months now, and
was able to see the movie on the am showing on it's first full day.
What a thrill ride! Before I go into the details of why I loved this
movie, I should point out where my perspective on a movie like this
will be different than most, as reflected in some of the bad early
reviews. 

I have a Bachelors in Information Systems and a Masters in Information
Security Assurance. I have worked in technology for 18 years now, the
last 5 of that almost exclusively in the security end of the tech pool.
Based upon my experience in the field and my recent exhaustive research
into information security, I found the film to be a refreshing change
from the typical rehashed Hollywood fantasy that is put out regarding
anything with a computer chip installed. 

The problem with how computers are depicted in most movie in television
is that the capabilities of computers are completely overstated or just
plain irrational. It is as if directors think technical hyperbole will
make up for a lack of everyday viewer sophistication with computer
science. I get that the majority of the population hasn't studied
computers as a major and most know only as much as they need to to get
online and send emails or watch Youtube. This is completely
understandable. 

However, with technology being so ubiquitous in today's world, I am a
bit astounded at he flack a director gets when he attempts to use
realistic computing in a movie. With all of the Androids, iOS devices,
multiple computer households, and the increasing popularity of Linux
operating systems, one would think that the average computer IQ of
America was much higher than it was 20 years ago. 

In reality, if computers are depicted in realistic terms in film, most
people just wont get it. I blame this partly on shows like Star Trek
and Star Wars (which I love, for what they are) that fantasize what
computers may be like in 200 years. I also blame it on the epidemic of
fantasy movies that seem to base nothing on reality but continue to
rake in hundreds of millions of dollars from movie goers world wide. 

At the end of the day, Michael Mann did a FANTASTIC job of depicting
the real life of network engineers and computer scientists in this
movie. Commands entered on screen followed conventional Unix command
line format and were syntactically correct. You could tell Mann had
done his research and hired true computing consultants in the writing
of the script. 

In addition, the attacks on the PLA systems that run the pumps used to
cause the reactor meltdown and later planned for the mines was almost
flawlessly realistic. That is in fact how those systems work and how
attackers would compromise them across the Internet. Further, the types
of attacks are entirely plausible given real world research conducted
by the NSA, Department of Defense, Department of Energy, and others. In
addition, passing malware through PDF files by email is one of the most
prominent ways that attackers take over computers in the real world,
but viewer comments indicate they believe this to be too silly to be
believable. Well as a security analyst, I can tell you to believe that
scenario happens millions of times every year But, because we didn't
have excessive flashing lights and cartoonish villains with a master
plan to take over the entire world, the movie gets panned. 

The reviews for Blackhat remind me of those for Miami Vice. In each
instance, extensive research was done into the worlds of the criminals
that served as the basis for the lead characters. But too much realism
tends to bring out the boo birds who would rather focus on comic book
heros that shoot lighting out of their eyeballs or fly around in steel
suits too impossibly heavy to be powered by anything short of a large
nuclear reactor while fighting off giant skyscraper-sized space worms. 

Perhaps audiences would rather have compete fantasy in their movies.
Perhaps we cannot appreciate anything that attempts the least bit of
realism. However, I absolutely loved Blackhat for the same reason I
loved Miami Vice. Michael Mann made an adult movie largely based upon
fact that requires minimal amounts of escapism while requiring the
viewer to use their intellect and actually think during the movie. For
his efforts, I applaud him. 

Lastly, this movie should serve as a warning to all those who are
unaware of the rampant security issues that the US (the whole world
actually) faces in this day and age. From a security analyst's
perspective, the realism was welcome cautionary tale that needs to
continued to be told until the general public gets it.
<|_=00=_|>
Blackhat is the latest from maverick director Michael Mann...it also
happens to be his worst film ever. Yes, I am even factoring in The
Keep. It is THAT bad. Starring Chris Hemsworth and Viola Davis, this
film is a misfire and criminally misuses a talented cast and a talented
crew. Nick is a furloughed convict trying to nail a destructive hacker
who is damaging the financial stabilities of countries all around the
world. Now, on the list of people better suited for this role, Chris
Hemsworth shouldn't even be on this list. Watching him as a hacker is
as painful as watching Adam Sandler in drag seduce Al Pacino. Working
off a screenplay from Morgan Davis Foehl, Mann seems to focus more on
having the shakiest hand-held cinematography not in a Paranormal
Activity film than actually telling a coherent story with good
characters. And for those of you who were expecting Michael Mann to
deliver a film like Heat or The Insider, you will walk away from this
thoroughly disappointed. The action is short, rare and very tame while
the scenes that are attempting to explain what the hell is going on are
so convoluted, long and boring that it creates a very uneven film that
borders unwatchable. One of the biggest gripes I have with this film is
the cinematography. It is entirely too shaky for a film like this and,
on a serious note, reminded me more of End of Watch. While that style
fit End of Watch perfectly, it doesn't fit this film. It doesn't make
it look gritty, it just makes it look painfully under-produced and
underfunded. Overall, Mann's Blackhat serves as one of the biggest
disappointments in recent memory considering the fact this is Michael
Mann we're talking about here...the guy who did Heat, Thief and
Collateral. Unfortunately, if this is the best Mann has to offer, I
fear it is only going to get worse as time goes on. Blackhat is
underdeveloped, unrealistic, and filmed terribly. Watcher beware!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I think that about sums this film up.

Some hacker who most will recognise as the god of thunder is released
from prison by his bestie, to help track down some faceless
cyber-criminal. An hour and a half in, we're still none the wiser as to
what's going on, but do know that the released hacker is free to run
around the globe as he pretty much spearheads the investigation...
which, sadly, is even less entertaining than watching YouTube videos on
how to write HTML.

His best mate from university also just so happens to have a semi-hot
sister with dodgy English tagging along, and while it's understandable
that, having been banged up for some time, our hacker is very likely to
jump on the first thing in a skirt, her interest in him seems like a
bizarre Chinese experiment on how to have a relationship in which there
is zero chemistry.

There's some US Marshall assigned to keep the hacker in line, but that
doesn't include stopping him from going around cutting open people's
faces with broken bottles in restaurants, or interfering with crime
scenes when their main suspect has been removed from the equation under
suspicious circumstances.

Our hacker is also 10x smarter than the entire Hong Kong police force,
a krav magra expert, quite nifty with a firearm and the all-round hero,
being the first to go into a reactor after some kind of meltdown. Given
his skillset, he could have just hacked into MI6, gotten a fancy watch
and car full of gadgets and lived out the rest of his days as 007.

Seriously, the film is god-awful and for a huge fan of action films
like myself to want to press the stop button in the middle of the first
real fire-fight, something has to be very wrong.

As it happens, I couldn't endure much longer after that and came here
to write this instead, because telling others how I turned this tedious
dross off seemed like a much better way to spend my time than sitting
through the rest of the film to see what happens in the end... which is
something I really couldn't care about.
<|_=00=_|>
1. REALLY FLAT CHARACTERS

Even tho the movie is rather long, it invests almost no time into
character development. 

1.1 Chris Hemsworth is left with a role that is neither likable, nor
interesting, and I have never heard one line of good dialogue from him
throughout the whole thing (same for every character here). He's
supposed to be a genius hacker, but if we wouldn't be told that all the
time, nobody would recognize him as either a genius or a hacker. He's
just an attractive dude who knows a thing or 2 about codes. SPOILER:
Also, in the end, he solves all his problems just by primitive physical
force. Wow. what a hacker. 

1.2 The Chick and the love affair... it doesn't get more flat than
that. It really doesn't. She is also supposed to be a great IT
specialist or something like that. But we barely see any of those
skills either. 

1.3 The Bad Guy, well... I hoped for the entire movie that he would
make the difference when he appears. But he didn't. He was just a one
dimensional greedy clich√©. 

1.4 The supporting characters are no better. Like that black government
lady. Saying "I lost someone on 9/11" shortly before she dies is an
absolutely desperate attempt to give her character (that was
emotionally completely meaningless before) some depth and make her
death more tragic. Another Michael Mann movie, where this technique
worked really well was "Heat". In "Blackhat it just didn't work one
bit.

2.SOOOO MUCH BUILDUP FOR THE MOST UNSPECTACULAR "TWIST" EVER.

In the first half, the movie raises a few questions and sets up some
mysteries. I actually liked that, but only because I wanted to see the
puzzles solved creatively and unexpectedly. SPOILER AGAIN!... turns out
the bad guy hacked a nuclear power plant (!) and the stock market (!!!)
TO PRACTICE (?????) for some rusty engines somewhere in Malaysia. I'm
not gonna lie, I bursted out laughing in the theatre at that point, and
a few other people were even joining me.

3. I'M NOT AN IT-SPECIALIST, BUT I HEARD THE HACKING SHOWN IN THE MOVIE
IS RATHER LEGIT.

...ok but who cares? That would have been the icing on the cake if the
movie itself was good, yes. But that fact alone doesn't make it a good
movie or anything.

So that's it. I'm really confused about the many positive feedbacks
here. I can not imagine how anyone could give this movie more than 3
stars. I can't even give it 2...

Absolute waste of time and a talented director and cast...
<|_=00=_|>
If you like taut, slow-burn suspense thrillers like Alfred Hitchcock's
films and 'The Drop' in 2014 with James Gandolfini (which I thought was
excellent), then please *go see this movie* in the theater; I think you
will like it. (If the negative reviewers here thought they were getting
a superhero movie like 'The Avengers', then they weren't paying
attention to the previews :-) .) Blackhat features a computer hacker
(Chris Hemsworth) who is furloughed from prison to counter-attack an
elite cybercrime team. The cybercrime technology in the movie includes
current techniques such as RATs (Remote Access Trojans) and keypad
trackers. Following the movie plot is important -- the script is sparse
(my only real objection); so it's important to track the plot
developments. Michael Mann's camera-work is impressive during chase
scenes, and his animations of cybercrime technology processes are
inventive. I plan to see it a second time in the theater with other
friends.
<|_=00=_|>
Suffers from inconsistencies, both technical and story wise. They
change the shooting styles, cameras, fps, warmth/cold - for no apparent
reasons at all. Feels like it's not clear what this movie "wants to
be". The main character is supposed to be a "super-hacker" but doesn't
do anything "super hack-y", just wanders around, shooting people, and
nails the female protagonist. Doesn't have many hacking-scenes for a
"hackers movie", has tons of boring gun-scenes instead, from some
reason. The motivation of the villain was, not interesting. References
many other "movie-cliches" (not in a good way). Severely lacks humor.
The few jokes in it are really cheesy (yeah, it's not a comedy , but
comic reliefs are important). Many of the audience members left the
theater in the middle or before the end.

Video review: https://www.facebook.com/video.php?v=842110769178326
<|_=00=_|>
If I had to pay to see this movie when I saw it, I'd be so mad, but I
didn't, so I was disappointed for free. Chris Hemsworth and Voila Davis
are so much MORE than the crappy roles they were given for this film.
The storyline was all over the place; there are too many side stories
to keep up with. The overall concept of the film is fun and
interesting, but its execution is very poor. There's light at the end
of the tunnel during a few scenes, and the attention of the audience is
kept somehow by a very thin thread. In the end, it's pure curiosity
that'll keep you from walking out on the movie altogether. In the hands
of a different writer and director, this film would've been great. I
suggest waiting for it to be available on Redbox instead of seeing it
in the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
I was so excited when I first heard about this movie! It just has a lot
of potential, especially regarding the online events from the past
years. But watching the first half of this movie felt like Hollywood
was flipping me off. It keeps becoming harder for me to sit through the
Hollywood movies due to the lack of depth and the logical mistakes that
they keep making:

1) A nuclear reactor does not get hacked over the wire. Why would a
country be stupid enough to give the main computers in a nuclear
reactor access to the internet? So that the employees can play online
poker? The real hack was done by writing highly specific software and
spreading it on to as much USB sticks as possible. One of them was used
by an employee and vo√¨la.

2) Three main characters that have one-liner back stories? Also the
dialog feels rushed and often very corny.

3) First it's all "a marshal will be by your side in every point in
time" and not much later he seems to have all the freedom in the world
(regarding computer access). The marshal even hands him his phone! And
that to a guy that can open up a terminal, hack a bank, and wire 900
dollars to all of his inmates..

4) In the Chinese restaurant Nick tracks down the IP address of the guy
they were supposed to meet, which had 265 in it. Basic networking 101:
an IPv4 address has four digits, separated by dots, ranging from 0-255.
For a movie about with a 70 million dollar budget, I'd expect they'd do
some fact checking.

Apparently the real challenge is making believable movies about IT
related things (they nailed it in the movie Her).. Guess I'm back to
watching documentaries again.
<|_=00=_|>
After a Chinese Nuclear plant is hacked, FBI agent Carol Barrett (Viola
Davis) insists the FBI work with the Chinese government to track the
hacker down. She is finally convinced that this needs the help of super
hacker Nick Hathaway (Chris Hemsworth) who is serving a 15-year prison
sentence. 

I think most movies have an obligation to get the audience engaged,
especially in the beginning. The beginning of this movie tried to
dazzle us with computer hacking showing us what happens inside a
computer with the CGI going wild, but it went on for too long and we
started thinking of other things we needed to do like reorganizing our
sock drawer. This was the first step in losing the audience.

The rest of movie slowly comes around trying to locate the hacker with
huge amounts of Geek Teckno-babble losing us once again. Then with
Nick's help we come to realize that this hack was not political, but
something else. Yes, this is the "Twist" we come to believe is in every
movie. And it is here the movie begins to make sense as more hacks come
about disrupting economies throughout the world. Ah, so it's all about
the money. Ah, we thought so. Once that is realized, the movie settles
down to something we can finally understand: good guys vs the bad guys. 

However, it is still slow-going as players stand around waiting for
their lines. Add to this too many sub-titles that were too long to read
before the scene changed and we lost the last 6-words or so. What were
they thinking? Don't they know I never took that speed-reading course?
Hey, I meant to. 

A U.S. Marshall was supposed to stick with Nick everywhere he went, but
we see him go to a restaurant to meet one of the hackers and no
Marshall is in sight. Did the Continuity Girl (yeah, it's usually a
girl) not read the script and mess up? Of course, there is a big fight
here and, of course, Nick prevails, of course. Actually, this was a
very good (read brutal) fight scene. Ouch. Ouch. Ouch. Probably the
best part of the movie. Hey, who needs THOR? 

This is tedious, but watchable because we keep hoping this will get
better and it does in the last 15-minutes. The love interest between
Nick and Chen (Tang Wei) is forced, but so were a lot of things in
here. So what else is new? Most scenes were so short no player had any
time to show off any acting talent. Long shots of player grimaces don't
count. Now, about that sock drawer¬Ö¬Ö¬Ö¬Ö. (4/10)

Violence: Yes. Sex: No, we only see a make-out session. Nudity: No.
Language: yes, some not much.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say when I watched the trailer for this movie I was skeptical,
there are only a few hacker- movies that are enjoyable to watch.

Sometimes I am wrong and the movie turns out to be better then I
expected but not in this case. I actually got quite annoyed watching
this. The computer action looked authentic by using existing OS-es and
interfaces but they still made huge mistakes. IP's with numbers higher
than 255 is just plain stupid and accessing a top-secret NSA program
with some simple social engineering looked convincing on screen but I
doubt the NSA allows simple user/pass access to such tooling. I could
go on and on...

I did like the idea of the plot, too bad the execution was so terrible.
Probably the only thing I really liked where the two big shootout
scenes, you saw a bit of Heat's director Mann there:)

Unsynced audio and weird changes in volume where also very annoying,
something you don't expect from a $70mil movie.

I'm giving this a +1 because it tried to be authentic so a 4 bumps up
to a 5/10 rating.
