
If you enjoyed other Nicolas Sparks movies, you will enjoy this one. It
is heartwarming and one with integrity that depicts what it is to love
someone unconditionally. It is a sweet, and sensual romance of a young
couple struggling to come together while each follows their dreams.
Sophia, wants to follow her passion of art, and Luke, follows his
passion as the world's best bull rider. Their love story is entwined
with the memories of a relationship of love long ago, told and acted by
Alan Alda, who plays Ira, as he reads letters he wrote to his dear
wife, Ruth. The scenery of the movie is lovely, the bull riding is
exciting, the script, thoughtful and touching. Have Kleenex on hand,
you will cry. At the end of this movie the audience clapped because it
was good all the way through.
<|_=00=_|>
The Longest Ride is a 2015 American romantic drama film directed by
George Tillman, Jr. and written by Craig Bolotin. Based on Nicholas
Sparks' novel of the same name, the film stars Scott Eastwood, Britt
Robertson, Jack Huston, Oona Chaplin, Alan Alda, Melissa Benoist, and
Lolita Davidovich.

Luke Collins is a bull rider who is seriously injured one night while
riding. One year later he gets back on and meets Sophia Danko by
chance. On their first date they encounter an older gentleman who has
crashed his car and help rescue him. Luke continues riding bulls, no
matter the risk of being hurt again. He and Sophia fall in love.
Meanwhile, Sophia continuously visits the man she and Luke rescued, Ira
Levinson. He tells her the story of how he met his late wife, Ruth;
their stories interweave.

Indeed an outstanding and haunting movie everyone must see.
<|_=00=_|>
Every year we get another Nicholas Sparks movie. These movies try to
emphasize " true love", but are usually simplistic mushy plots, where
eye candy fills the screen. Well this weekend I dive into the dark,
surround sound trenches to review his latest installment, The Longest
Ride. Out of annoyance, I quickly lowered my expectations at what was
in store. What is in store? Read on to find out.

Most know what to expect from Sparks, a good-looking boy and girl meet
up and magically start a romance. One of our characters is the perfect
specimen of looks, sensitivity, and romance that drives the ideal
romance, until it goes to pot for some reason eventually working out in
the end. This is only partially the case, the tale of Sophia (Britt
Robertson) and Luke (Scott Eastwood) act out following the typical
Sparks plot. The beautiful people form another ideal couple that women
idealize where chiseled abs, a handsome face are complemented by
incredible feats of consideration and sincerity. Naturally I rolled my
eyes at the drastically overplayed perfection, but there were many
enchanted by the stereotypical romance he painted. A "nice" distraction
that spices things up are the hot scenes, which you can guess involve
sex. This movie sex ,starts with another shower scene filled with
plenty of butts, and evolves to her riding the bull after he rides the
animal of the same name. Some may find it hot, but I found it shallow,
pointless, and a waste screen time. 

You might think that there are some surprise twists in this half of the
story, something that makes you say OH MY GOD. Sophia and Luke's tale
unfortunately has little to shock you, foreshadowing revealing all that
is to come in the tale, with the only mystery about when it would
happen. I can't deny this was one of my favorite endings, but it took a
bit to get to the ending. 

However, there is a saving grace for this film and that is the second
story of Ira and Ruth. The tale of the 1940's relationship could have
been a movie by itself, truly showing a developing relationship and the
troubles they face. This was the type of relationship I like to see,
emphasizing care and compassion for the one you want to share your life
with it. The gifts were heartfelt, a tribute to the love they truly
felt only to be undermined by the struggles they faced. It was real,
and an example of the type of relationship I pray many actually get
instead of the shallower loves seen in most movies. This relationship
was obviously to show how much love has changed, the comparison
illustrating the differences between real and superficial love.
Obviously this was the meant to drive Sophia and Luke's relationship
and overcome their few challenges, but it was the more engaging and
emotional of the tales. 

Despite the great morals, sweet romance, and good looks though what
else does this movie have in store. In terms of positives, the
beautiful settings of North Carolina will take your breath away and
offer you a taste of the country life. I also felt the camera work and
sound editing did a nice job combining their talents to bring out the
emotional spectrum. Many times the music was more emotional than the
actual acting, the orchestra work nearly bringing a few tears to this
reviewer's eyes. The acting is also decent, especially in terms of the
young Ira and Rose (Jack Huston and Oona Chaplin) who really brought
their characters to life. I felt great chemistry between these two,
almost as if they were really in love and a married couple, something I
normally don't say. 

As for negatives, I've already mentioned a few. First off is that the
tale is predictable and still follow closely to the Spark's formula. I
know to expect it, but that doesn't mean I can't dock the score for
unoriginality, which this movie is. In addition the movie was a little
too long for me. Again the editing needs to work on what is necessary.
I'll go ahead and say that a 2 hour Spark's romance is not necessary.
There was not enough drive to carry my attention for the whole time,
and half of the scenes, especially with her sorority life, could have
been left to the director's cut. 

The Longest Ride is definitely not the perfect film, and in the end is
another Nicholas Spark's novel come to life. Yet I can say it is one of
my favorite tales of this author, but only due to the first half of the
film. I would have liked to have seen more integration of the two
tales, but I was pleased with the balance overall. Is it worth a trip
to the theater? Not really, but it is a decent romance film definitely
good for a RedBox rent. The recommended audience are those that love
Nicholas Sparks, want to see romance, or are just looking to stare at
beautiful people. 

My Scores are: Drama/Romance: 7.5-8.0 Movie Overall: 6.5-7.0
<|_=00=_|>
This is an extraordinary film that is almost two features in one. My
wife and I (oldsters, but still in glorious married Love) saw it as a
date film and enjoyed it immensely. 

It is two stories of enduring Love- one in modern day, the other in the
past (1940s to present), which intertwine through the chance meeting of
Ira Levinsen (Alan Alda) who is in a car crash, with Luke and Sophie
who are on a first date. Their subsequent friendship changes all their
lives. Sophie saves a box of love letters from the crash, the reading
aloud of which provide the narrative (a common Nicholas Sparks theme)
for interweaving the two very different worlds together. 

The acting was superb, Scott's portrayal of Luke was spot on for rodeo
cowboys - a stoic bunch. Britt Robertson's charming young "Sophie" was
sweet, but tough. Alan Alda was priceless, as usual, but the two who
really stand out are; Oona Chaplin as young Ruth Levinsen, and Jack
Huston as young Ira. The period is amazingly presented and their acting
just makes it sumptuous. 

Two complaints that some reviewers find wrong with these types of film
are - not enough realism (read overt sex and Violence) and happy
endings. This movie is guilty of both. We left the Theater feeling
emotionally spent and happy. As Christian Slater said in Bed of Roses:
" There's no such thing as too much perfection"
<|_=00=_|>
Enjoyable tearjerker flick paralleling modern love story between bull
rider and college student with that of an older gentleman who is on his
deathbed. I personally thought that the story of the older couple was
more developed and less clich√©. The plot is overall enjoyable. The
cinematography of North Carolina mountains is beautiful. My favorite
scene was the last bull riding scene which is in slow motion and uses
punchy bass (only real use of LFE effects in the movie). 

On a personal note, I was saddened to read that Rango the Bull passed
away after shooting the movie but before the film was released.
Apparently he was a real life superstar in the rodeo circuit.
<|_=00=_|>
Every-time I watch a romance movie I'm going to either really love it
or really hate it. This movie is one of those examples.

1. The characters are so bland and forgettable. They don't learn
anything from there experience. All I know about the main guy is that
he rides bulls and that's it. The lead girl is into art and nothing
else. Alan Alda is old with letters and that's all we know about him.
Every character is just a one character description. 

2. The story has too many coincidences and questions. What was his
health problem that injured him so badly? Why does her family take her
to the bull rides? Why did the guy promise to quit bull riding but only
after he won the championship? Plus the coincidences are over the top.
The elderly mans wife happened to be an artist like the main girl, his
wife had issues with him going to war kind of like the bull riding with
the two leads, the wife also had difficulties in their relationship
just like the leads, she collects art just like the main girl etc.

3. The romance is so dull and bleak to watch. After maybe five weeks of
knowing each other she gets into a fight with him saying: how can you
do this when I've given up every thing for you? I'm sorry but you've
had an on and off relationship with him for five weeks. You shouldn't
plan ahead with him in a life when you've hardly known him. Most of the
time they talk it's exposition dialog that doesn't improve their
characters so they can know each other.

This movie is just every example of a bad romance movie. No chemistry
of romance with the leads, no character development with anyone in
general, unanswered questions, too many coincidences and overall it
feels five times longer than it actually is with it's awful pacing. The
opening to UP is more romantic than this.

Just watch Am√©lie, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind or The
Princess Bride. Those are better romances than this mess.
<|_=00=_|>
Two stories in one, which is what made this movie, had it just been one
or the other I don't think I would have written this review. It
certainly didn't hurt that they cast Alan Alda in it too, he is such a
wonderful actor, no matter what role he plays, this included. This is a
simple love story, times 2. This is not any brilliant "oh my gosh no
one has ever made a movie this deep and this incredible before" type of
movie. It's mushy, sweet, romantic, hopeful, sad, happy, sometimes
predictable, and when it was over I said, "I really enjoyed that
movie". That's what it's all about, for me, enjoying the movie. If it
makes me feel good in the process, then that's even better. I would
recommend this, but not to someone who is not the least bit romantic or
hopeful, because you will be one of the people who writes a negative
review.
<|_=00=_|>
- I really thought The Longest Ride was going to be a sappy movie based
on a book by Nicholas Sparks. I was mistaken. Yes, it can be sappy but
turns out to be a good story. A young couple, a city girl and a cowboy
go out on a date only to discover they are too different for it to
work. They drive up to an accident scene and the cowboy saves the
driver while the gal discovers a lot of letters. This sets a path to a
past love story and sets the course for the cowboy and city girl to
have a little faith in finding love even though circumstances may point
elsewhere. I believe this is a good date movie or just a feel good
story. Long live cowboys.
<|_=00=_|>
Nicholas Sparks' movies are almost always seemingly made to please the
hopeless romantics and the fairytale romance-loving audience, they're
expected to manipulate emotions, no matter how extremely recognizable
their set ups may be, and they often triumph. But in THE LONGEST RIDE,
the attempt barely mimics such success, primarily because of its
confusing and ever shifting narrative, whose backbone runs on two
romantic sagas spanning across different generations.

THE LONGEST RIDE sprawls across two love stories set in the modern day
and seventy years ago. In modern day, it has Luke and Sophia, two
utterly good-looking people, who at first sight falls in love with each
other, they stumbles upon Ira, a World War II veteran, who himself, has
his own epic love story to tell¬óthat one he shared with his wife, Ruth,
seventy years ago. More often, these two love stories bear no
difference from each other, as both couples go through similar
hardships to carry their relationships.

The idea of crisscrossing time to present two supposedly compelling
love stories, perhaps, is to double the magnitude of emotions and
deliver a more poignant result, yet such very confusing structure is
what actually makes giving both the stories with equal level of
sentiment, difficult. Still, no matter how one appears to hold more
promise of an engaging love story than the other, the tedious and
confusing process of going back and forth across two different time
frames, and the fact that the narrative failed to establish concrete
connection between the two stories, renders less than satisfying
result. There's also this chemistry that Luke and Sophia seem to be
lacking, regardless of how incredibly beautiful they are as persons,
and that, may also be the reason why the other story, strikes as more
riveting than theirs. This makes the entirety of the movie¬óits
interesting premise and structure yet often convoluted, and its thinly
drawn characters¬óhard to appreciate and care about. Nevertheless, in
the eyes of a true Sparks' fan, and of anyone easily drawn to such
anthems, THE LONGEST RIDE easily serves its purpose.

Spanning through generations and intertwining love affairs, THE
LONGESTh RIDE would have been more satisfying had it treated both the
stories with equal attention. That's not to say it has no small moments
of perfection, because it does, but as a whole, the movie just falls
below average.
<|_=00=_|>
First, I have to say - I read the book first, and I'm glad that I did.
I first suggest that to anybody who will take the time to do so. The
book itself constructs the story in a much stronger way.

While the movie was great to see for someone who has read the book and
loved it. I feel that without reading the book, the one storyline (Luke
and Sophia's) may seem short and not shown well enough. In the book you
find yourself falling in love with the couple while I do not believe
they got enough screen time.

As for Ira and Ruth's story, it was wonderful to see the scenes played
out and while I LOVED the way their story was presented in the book, I
was glad for the chance to see Ira have more screen time as an elder.

There were a LOT of things that were changed from the book when this
AMAZING story was made into a movie, and I feel that it only hurt the
story. I honestly believe that if they had stuck to the way it was
written, it would have been MUCH more well received. 

All in all, I LOVED this movie, though the book was INFINITELY better.
If you at all feel like Luke and Sophia's story was
false/fake/short/surreal/etc. I HIGHLY encourage you to read the book
as I can ASSURE you that their relationship is not these things.

Given the time to read the book, you will fall in love with these four
characters, and it will make this story INFINITELY better. However, if
you only go to see this movie, keep in mind that you are only getting a
portion of this couple's story if you feel you do not like it.
