
Being a huge fan of the first Sinister, I was beyond excited for this
movie. After seeing the trailer, it looked like they were going to go
over the top with this one and make it intense. I really wanted that to
happen. I really wanted this to be even better than the first.

I didn't get what I wanted.

This is my first review, so I'll keep it short. Everything that I was
hoping this film would have, wasn't there. Not really a spoiler, but I
felt like it tried to be more of a family drama movie with some
supernatural stuff going on in the background. There were non-genuine
jump-scares and the acting was less than average. Even with the
glaringly bad plot, I sat there trying to look at some positives. The
positives are that some scares got me. I'm jumpy even when I know
jump-scares are coming, so they got me on that. But when the movie
ended, I couldn't help but reflect on how bad the overall story was and
how stupid some of the scares were. I won't spoil any of them, but
let's just say that you'll probably be wondering how the scares were
"genuine" when you really put it into perspective.

I give this movie a 5/10. Mostly because I just really, really wanted
to like it. I kept searching for any redeeming qualities throughout the
movie and they are slim to none. I recommend watching if you're bored
one night and you've seen just about all the horror movies out there.
It'll pass the time, but it's just a plain jump-scare fest with a
nonsensical story. Don't go in having high expectations like I did.
<|_=00=_|>
I know I'm in the minority in that I didn't find the first Sinister
terribly engaging or frightening. It did have some creep factor and
managed to build up some good atmosphere; but as with most horror
films, it relied too much on empty jump scares.

Sinister 2 dispenses with the atmosphere and relegates the perennial
baddie, Bughuul, to essentially a running cameo since he has maybe 20
seconds of overall screen time (all of which are jump scares
telegraphed so well in advance that it saps them of even the most basic
fear factor of surprise). Instead the focus is on his kiddie minions,
who are as frightening as the Muppets. Heck, even the 2 boys being
"haunted" by them aren't scared in the least by their presence, and
even fight for their attention. The ghost children wish to recruit one
of the boys, so they visit him nightly with a choice to either be
tormented by nightmares, or watch a series of snuff films that each of
them has made. He's informed he must watch "every one," yet the
reasoning behind this is left a little murky. Since all the reels seem
to be shot and edited identically, maybe he's being forced to examine
their directorial methods so when his time comes, his film won't stand
out awkwardly from the crowd? 

The "scares" are few, far between, and pretty lame. A symbol of Bughuul
pops up on a laptop screen and starts to drip blood, an antique
radio-thingy jumps to life with ghostly voices, people run down halls
that are ridiculously streaked with blood (assumably to give the
impression that something REALLY BAD must have happened there)... it's
all pretty pedestrian and I'd think only frightening to children under
the age of 7. 

The plot is paper thin, and since they gave more screen time to super8
films of random people getting murdered in preposterous ways rather
than building up any actual character development, I won't even bother
talking about it. However, in the brief time Bughuul was actually
on-screen, I was so unengaged from the film that I had time to ponder
just why a Babylonian demon who eats children would be dressed in a
modern fitted suit (with the shirt collar fashionably left open for
those seeking a titillating flash of demon clavicle). Perhaps he shops
at JoS. A. Bughuul.
<|_=00=_|>
Sinister 2 isn't as bad as some make it out to be. It's not a good
movie either. Like most sequels, it struggles with the novelty gone and
never manages to succeed in new ways or areas. It is a mediocre and
forgettable film, just as the name of it's main character.

I very much enjoyed the first movie. While it's not without its faults
- I actually don't think it was that scary with too heavy reliance and
textbook-use of "creepy" sounds and the children were too cliché for my
taste; it was a very absorbing movie, well directed with excellent
music, a good sense for mystery, mood, pace, a solid twist and awesome
ending. It cleverly managed to outbalance it's shortcomings.

Sinister 2 starts off promising enough - at first it looks and feels
just as it is supposed to, the snuff-flicks are still here with their
grainy look and new, obscure kills complimented by creepy music. We
find out what has happened after the first movie and continue the
investigations surrounding the murder cases involving mysterious
events, now with a new family (with twins - which could've provided an
interesting twist to the story) and more involvement of the deputy from
the prequel which at this point pretty much has inherited the knowledge
of the previous main character. Everything you could possibly want in a
sequel to Sinister is here, but sadly it is meaningless as they never
manage to do something as interesting or memorable with it.

The death-flicks are useless this time as they don't provide anything
to resolve the puzzle or any kind of new information. Even worse: the
pace of them is pretty much straight to the point giving them a very
rushed, uninspired and uninvolved feeling - not enough build-up and no
intensity. As opposed to some in the first movie, none of them made me
wonder or left me amazed how they were filmed. Instead some of them
involve CGI rats and crocodiles - don't even ask. Even the characters
argue to watch them all through in one sitting almost as if just to be
done with.

The movie also suffers from too much exposition provided by the ghost
children. The family, the deputy and Bughuul I found to be decent, but
also problematic. While the deputy continues to be the same, likable
character, you'll never fear for him because he seems to be too safe
from all of it. The character of the mother is another one we should
fear for, but oddly enough she is almost entirely absent in any of the
horror events; her struggle is only on the family-issue side which
doesn't quite sit right with this kind of movie and is more or less a
subplot which lacks emotional depth, partially due to the father being
so over the top. There is just overall little sense of danger in this
movie which is its biggest fault.

To it's credit it does try to provide new things while being true to
the first movie. It has it's moments where it shows potential and
ideas, but never quite manages to expand on it in suspenseful and
creative ways. It does however bother to explain some things
surrounding the history and what if's, just about in the right amount
without ruining too much, which is always nice. It also has its fair
share of plot holes and faulty logic, just like the previous one did
(some are even still the same), but I found it to be forgivable as it's
not something I should be too concerned about with a movie involving
supernatural events.

It's not exactly trash. I wasn't really bored watching it, but it also
didn't provide enough suspense either, which is something it definitely
should have. With a third Sinister movie seemingly sure to be made
it'll be interesting to see where he series is being headed and if
it'll reach cult status as any other popular horror franchise. The
first one has potential to become a classic, this one is a much weaker
entry which makes me wonder how they will handle the next one. Sinister
2 had potential and could have used more polish in almost every aspect.
Hopefully the makers will learn from it and allow them more time to
come up with good material.
<|_=00=_|>
In a farmhouse near a corn field where Ellison Oswait lived, the boy
Dylan (Robert Daniel Sloan) has nightmares and is haunted by ghostly
children led by the boy Mile (Lucas Jade Zumann). Dylan lives with his
mother Courtney Collins (Shannyn Sossamon), who has just left her
abusive husband, and his brother Zach (Dartanian Sloan) and is forced
by the ghosts to go to the basement to watch home films in Super 8 of
families being slaughtered. Ex-Deputy So & So (James Ransone) is
investigating the crime spree of Bughuul (Nicj King) and burning down
the houses where the deceased families lived to protect other families.
He travels to the farmhouse and finds Courtney and her sons living
there. He tells that he is a private investigator and he protects her
against a bluff of her ex-husband to keep the children with him. Then
he begins a love affair with Courtney. Meanwhile Dylan tells to the
ghosts that he will not see any video again but Zach, who is the real
choice of the ghosts, replaces him. When their father succeeds in
getting a court order to have the custody of the children, Courtney is
forced to go with the children. What will happen to the Collins family?

"Sinister 2" is a sequel of "Sinister" with a reasonable story but a
very weak conclusion. There are plot holes such as how Zach tied his
parents and his brother in the cornfield? Why the ghosts need to make
Zach jealous of his brother? Why Zach becomes so bad  he is possessed
by the Bughuul but the film does not show him as a victim. How the ex-
Deputy and Courtney would explain the deaths? Why the need of a
piggyback to a next sequel in the end? My vote is five.

Title (Brazil): "A Entidade 2" ("The Entity 2")
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed SINISTER (although, I'll always think it's a terrible
title - HOME MOVIES seemed to make more sense), but I digress.

I liked the original. It was creepy with a solid story that didn't
insult the audience. You HAD to be paying attention as the film didn't
hit you over the head with what was happening. It left bread crumbs and
let you figure it out.

I also thought the performances of Hawke & the others were genuine.

SINISTER 2 was a great disappointment. While I liked the idea of seeing
it from the kid's side this time, unlike the 1st film, it TOLD you
everything that was going on.

And it didn't have to. We KNEW the basic premise.

I felt all the scenes with the kids weren't authentic. They also
weren't scary.

The film made the "home movies" the focus. This was a mistake. The
original made the characters the main focus. While creative, the home
movies were a side gag that got elevated to "main course" because there
wasn't much meat on the bone.

I like Shannon. She still looks so young, yet I believed she would have
2 kids.

I would've made the scenes with the ghost kids scarier. More haunting.
More like 6th Sense where they didn't just come out and say what they
wanted.

Just my two cents.
<|_=00=_|>
I could say that Sinister II was by far one of the most expected horror
movies of this year. It turns out that this movie did not really meet
the eager audience's expectations for several reasons. Firstly, the
horrific elements present in the first movie are just not that scary in
this version: The tapes - although very creatively done -seemed to be
quite of a "stretch". They neither added something to the story nor
were scary. The fact they also didn't look as homemade as the ones in
Sinister I only lessened their spooky nature.

Mr. Boogie is much more exposed and doesn't act as much under the
shades. In this version, Bughuul seems more like one of those
cliché-type of horror entities that shows up behind the main character
(as it naturally does in this version) with the intention of just going
unseen. 

The scene where Mr. Boogie suddenly shows up behind Deputy "So and So"
is extremely unnecessary (besides of being cliché). The good and old
Bughuul would never subject himself to such exposure and suddenly hack
into his computer. And, how come at the end that kid was still able to
text Deputy asking for help? Why didn't Bughuul just stop it from
happening? 

I must give credit to the sound effects for all these scenes though.

Also, emphasizing the kids' roles was a risky move.It could have been
great if it was done well, what unfortunately, wasn't the case. These
kids' persuasive techniques to trap other kids into this "enchant"
weren't just convincing. 

This movie takes a perspective, which they do not commit to fully
explain. When I heard that this version was coming from the standpoint
of a "chosen" child, I wanted to understand what happened to Stephanie
from the original version. And guess what? I still don't understand how
a normal abduction happens. How would they persuade an only child? 

This version felt like we were watching a special occasion, full of
exceptions, while the first one only depicted how things happened at
their natural rate. The fact that this family was already going through
some internal issues turns this case into a "special occasion". It
might be only me - but I didn't enjoy it. Don't take me wrong, I think
the idea of addressing family issues was a great idea. However, this
topic added a singularity to this case, that doesn't apply to the other
occasions. I don't know how abduction takes place in traditional
families.

The weakest point of this movie - the ending. Children that can show up
anywhere in the blink of an eye and can't find a family trapped in a
house? How's that even consistent? Although the radius from the very
ending is an interesting artifact, it is also an odd component to the
movie. It doesn't add too much. 

This movie had strong points that could have been wisely used to
produce something as comparable as the original version. Children's
perspective, family issues, along with other themes addressed, would
have produced a high-quality movie if they had been well used. If
producers had produced something consistent throughout, where they
combined different themes that could become conflicting (as they did),
the movie would have turned out to be much better.

It definitely leaves a lot to desire in comparison to Sinister I.

5.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Sinister was one of the scariest horror movies of the past decade for
me. Was it perfect? Absolutely not, but it got the basics of the genre
right. The atmosphere was brooding, the imagery was disturbing, the
pacing was deliberately slow, the acting was convincing, the suspense
was constantly lingering, the scares were genuine, and you were on the
same page as the protagonist the entire time. Sinister 2 cheapens
everything that made the first film effective. Chilling atmosphere?
Gone. Interesting characters? Nope. Good scares? Not a one. 

Sinister 2 spoon-feeds everything to you in the clunkiest, most
annoying way possible. For starters, this movie is a prime example of
why I generally hate kid actors. A good chunk of the story revolves
around these two brothers and how the ghost children are leading them
into the Boogey-world or whatever it's called, and their acting is
horrendous. Some scenes are just the kids talking back and forth and
it's painful to sit through. Also, the creepy 8mm tapes are blatantly
shoehorned into this movie because, hey, they worked in the first one
so we gotta throw them in here. In the first Sinister, Ellison had to
watch these tapes because it was part of his job. He was investigating
the murders and was forced to sit through these horrific tapes to find
clues to help him (and the audience) learn about what was happening.
Here, the evil kids lure one of the human kids into the basement and
say, "Hey, watch this! Or else..." So the kid watches the tapes, and
they serve absolutely no purpose other than to show gratuitous violence
for the sake of having gratuitous violence. None of it is scary or
disturbing on a personal level because it's such a sloppy plot device
that breaks up the momentum of the main story.

The main story isn't good either. Their mother is hiding out from her
abusive ex-husband, another cheap plot device that adds nothing to the
story other than to have a detestable character to root against. He
shows up to make everyone agitated and mad, literally, that's his sole
contribution to the movie. The deputy from the first Sinister is the
only recurring character, and he's likable enough. In fact, the
chemistry between the deputy and the mother is the best part of the
movie. If they had developed their characters more and focused on them
investigating the mystery behind these tapes, it could have been a
serviceable sequel. But no, the kids take center stage here and make it
excruciatingly hard to care about anything going on. 

Mr. Boogie also takes center stage, dressed to the nines (like any
great horror movie villain), popping up here and there with his long
hair and suit looking like Michael Jackson. It becomes a joke after a
while, and not a funny one. Jump scares are scattered throughout like a
minefield and you're just waiting for them to go off. Nothing in this
movie works. It's aggravating to know this is the sequel to Sinister
because it ruins the possibility of a franchise. Sinister 2 should have
never been made, and if you haven't seen it, then pretend it doesn't
exist. Sinister stands on its own, while Sinister 2 lays in the pile of
pointless, unwanted, cash grab horror sequels that deserve to be erased
from human history.
<|_=00=_|>
While Sinister 2 is still quite well sinister, it certainly lacks any
of the originality and constant vibe of fear that made its predecessor
such a memorable and competent horror film that found both success at
the box office and on home release.

Directed by soon to be Dr. Strange deliverer Scott Derrickson, Sinister
was a competently made horror that featured scarily good sound designs,
an assured lead turn from Ethan Hawke and a somewhat unique premise
that introduced us all to one of horror's most eerie creations of
recent times in the form of the child hungry Bughuul.

Where the first film's use of home footage horrors and sudden
appearances of Bughuul and his tribe were used to horrific effect, new
director Ciarán Foy struggles to utilise the murderous footage to
chilling affects here (even though a rat centric set piece is a
dastardly delight) and an overuse of Bughuul undoes many of the films
wannabe scares. It also doesn't help that an uninteresting story that's
been co-created by Derrickson fails to engage like Ethan Hawke's
struggling writer plot line of the first film.

Trying to keep things tied together by the return of James Ransone's
one time sheriff's deputy So & So (seriously we never get to hear his
name) and his quest to stop Bughuul's evil dominance, the plot that
also includes Shannyn (yes I'm still acting) Sossamon's mother of two
increasingly doomed boys just fails to fire and with a mere handful at
best of genuine frightening or terrifying moments, Sinister 2 fails to
recreate the ominous mood of the first film and where the first film
culminated in a shocking finale, Sinister 2 try's but fails to shock us
with a fiery and scythe laden crescendo.

The first Sinister offered up so much opportunity for a new franchise
to take hold and while Bughuul still remains and interesting and scary
creation, Sinister 2 seems to mark an early drop off in form that will
likely see the Sinister franchise relegated to bargain bins before
long, which is a sad proposition for a storyline that if done right,
could be all types of horror filled greatness.

1 ½ late night basement movie screenings out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
The first film was good, I enjoyed it, but not scary. So a sequel was
expected and it failed to live up to the standards of the original. I
would say, it was a decent horror film, with more story and drama than
the creepy atmosphere. One character retained from the previous and the
core theme remained, but tried a different method of narration.
Something like 'Goodnight Mommy' with two brothers and mystery events
surrounding them.

It definitely lacks what a horror film required the most, and
predictable too. But the story wise, it was decent, because the actors
did a good job. So it is an average film. I expected a better ending
and it did not conclude at its best leaving me disappointing. The way
it ended might have been the suitable for the story, but I wasn't
impressed. Again, another sequel is most certain, so I think this tale
is not over yet and chances are very high that the story would follow
with the same cast.

It was not a bad flick, but not a follow-up you would have wanted. If
you're looking for a genuine horror film, then you should skip it.
There's nothing brilliance to appreciate at any level. Overall, I too
felt it should have been better in some places. So my advise is if you
forget its genre and try to enjoy that you're watching some movie that
you don't know its category then surely would have a decent time with
it.

4/10
<|_=00=_|>
'SINISTER 2': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

Sequel to the 2012 horror hit 'SINISTER'; about a family haunted by a
demon, called Bhughul, through the ghosts of murdered children, using
super 8 snuff films. This installment picks up where the last one left
off, with a new family being terrorized by Bhughul. The movie was
directed by Ciaran Foy and written by Scott Derrickson (the director of
the first film) and C. Robert Cargill (the duo also wrote the first
movie, as well). It stars James Ransone (who also costarred in the
original flick), Shannyn Sossamon, Robert Daniel Sloan, Dartanian Sloan
and Lucas Jade Zumann. I enjoyed it, although not quite as much as the
first film. 

A mother, Courtney (Sossamon), and her twin sons, Dylan (Robert Daniel
Sloan) and Zach (Dartanian Sloan), move into a countryside farmhouse.
They're on the run from Courtney's abusive husband, Clint (Lea Coco);
who has hired people to search for them. Dylan is having continuous,
horrific, nightmares; and begins seeing the ghosts of dead children.
These spirits are led by a kid named Milo (Zumann), who starts showing
Dylan Super 8 home movies; of families being brutally murdered. Ex
Deputy So & So (Ransone), who investigated the crimes in the first
film, shows up and tries to help the family. 

This film has a lot bigger budget than the first movie, $10 million
compared to $3 million, so the productions values are a lot better. It
looks cooler, and the nightmarish gore scenes are at least as well made
as the original installment (if not better). It is lacking Ethan Hawke
(the star of the first film) and Derrickson at the helm; Foy shows
decent talent here, but he's definitely not as skilled as Derrickson
(yet). The movie has some really creative and haunting horror imagery
and atmosphere, but it is slow paced and not that involving. It's a
decent enough sequel though.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/rHh87mlE5WQ
