
I always find my viewing experience of the retelling of historical
events ruined when I come across scenes which I know have been added
for dramatic effect or when someone is played as a bad guy just to let
us know who to root for.

The King's Speech was particularly guilty of the former, the portrayal
of other teams in Glory Road had the latter, and The Imitation Game was
shamelessly guilty of both. I'm not saying this made them bad films,
but it certainly made me feel like the experience had strayed away from
a retelling of the facts as known.

Everest is everything that is good in such a film. There is no needless
good v evil addition and no leading the viewer to conclusions. It tells
the story and I have since spent three or four days thinking about the
hows, whys and wherefores... whilst knowing I will never find an
answer.

The other touch that really elevates this film is that there are no
added action sequences that have been added to make Everest more of an
action move. The film makers have been intelligent enough to realise
that climbing Everest does not need any exaggeration, the characters
involved were three dimensional people, and the story was interesting
enough not to need embellishment.

I expected an action film but left pleasantly surprised by a biopic
with a light touch.

The one mark deduction is for the totally unnecessary 3D. The film
absolutely didn't need me wearing dumb glasses to be three dimensional.
<|_=00=_|>
I think the main problem with this movie is a loose focus. It seems
like they tried to make a disaster, drama and documentary stories at
the same time but failed to develop any of that properly. But the good
things first: stunning scenery, overall tension and a few really great
scenes make this movie worth watching without a doubt. It is just
somehow not working as a single piece. With a fast start you expect
some eventful action to follow but there's nothing like that. The
characters developing is limited to a couple of sentences excluding Rob
Hall and Beck Weathers what makes others a little more than forgettable
'guys who die first'. For some reason, Scott Fisher, being a smart
capable mountaineer is shown as a careless hippie-like person, Anatoli
Boukreev as a clich√© tough Russian playing garmon in a tent, Beck
Weathers as a hardly-realistic guy from Texas. But it doesn't matter
anyways as when the masks put on it's really hard to follow who is who
and and their position on the mountain, especially on descending. The
whole day of May 11 is clumsy and hardly could be learned from the
movie, on the summit the story switches to Rob completely and gets
distractingly touchy-feely then slowly turning into the aftermath. The
drama feels a bit out of place when other participants dying with
little or no attention. I was disappointed. The most vivid scene of the
movie turned out to be shown in the trailer (crevasse ladder). Another
Beck Weathers scene was really powerful too, but otherwise I didn't
feel the pressure of surviving, the height itself (the stormy clouds
could be seen from 2000 as well), an incredible effort to even try to
step on that track.

Andre Bredenkamp writes about Everest climb: "You get completely
disorientated. I had to keep reminding myself I was climbing a
mountain. Every step of the way I had to try to motivate myself. At
that altitude I took at least 10 to 15 breaths each time I moved one
foot."

So if you really want to feel the height I would rather recommend to
read the books about that night as this movie failed to show it
properly.
<|_=00=_|>
Got the chance to see Everest early in IMAX 3D. I'll start off by
saying this, if you get the chance, definitely see this movie in IMAX.
It adds to the experience and you feel like your on the mountain. That
aside, let's dive into one of my most anticipated films of the year.

Everest is chalk full of star power. Jason Clarke, Josh Brolin, Keira
Knightley, Jake Gyllenhaal, the list goes on. Everyone is believable in
this hostile environment, going from optimistic and adventurous to
mortified and forced to fight for their lives. Each character is given
a back story, some more drawn out and centered than others, and you get
attached to most but not all of them. When the emotional blows hit,
they hit hard for some, but not as much for others.

The visuals are, as you might have guessed, stunning. The shots they
get of climbers and the way the camera gives you an an idea of how
dangerous this is are breath taking. The cinematography is definitely
award worthy. IMAX only added to it, putting you in this environment
and taking you along for the ride.

This film really did it for me because I have always been fascinated by
Everest and the journey it is to make it up to the top and back. If
there is a Netflix documentary about Everest, I've watched it. I even
watched the one about the story told in this movie. What this film does
so well is it immerses you into the environment as well as gives you
characters to care about. It's all tied in well together.

At times, the pace is a bit slower than expected and the tones shifts
from serious to light hearted are a bit messy. But that stuff doesn't
bother you in the moment, your just wrapped up in the intensity of the
story.

Overall, Everest gave me exactly what I wanted. It was intense,
emotionally powerful, and the visuals were beautiful. It's not
perfectly structured, but it sure is engaging. As someone who has
studied the mountain, this offers a brutal look into how much time and
energy is out into a trip to Everest, and how quickly things can go
wrong. Definitely worth a trip to the theatre.
<|_=00=_|>
A movie that's as stunning and as majestic and as spellbinding as mount
Everest itself. Even for many of us who've never been to Nepal, just
the fact that Everest is the world's highest mountain requires us to
respect it from afar. And I think that's what this film by director
Baltasar Kormakur has accomplished, it respects the story, it respects
the nature and it respects the memories of the lives lost during that
tragic 1996 expedition.

Baltasar is an Icelandic filmmaker who knows how to shoot a film in
such an environment where the weather can be unpredictable and it can
go against you at anytime. He didn't want all of this movie to be shot
entirely in a studio, this is not entirely visual effects work, they
actually went to Nepal and some of the other locations include Val
Senales, Italy. It's out there in the elements, outdoors locations that
force even the actors themselves to leave their trailer comfort zone
behind. And that is evident on screen, it really shows, because every
single frame successfully makes us the audience feel like we're there,
we feel the danger, as if we're there climbing the mountain, feeling
the pain that comes with excruciating cold because human bodies aren't
design to survive such temperature. I think the timing of the arrival
of this movie could not have been more perfect. If EVEREST was made a
decade or fifteen years ago, for example, when filmmaking technology
and the cameras weren't as advanced, I'm not sure if it could've given
us a movie-watching experience of this quality. This is not a heist
thriller ala 1993's "Cliffhanger," this is an epic survival drama.

Many of us are familiar with Jon Krakauer's book, "Into Thin Air" since
he himself was one of the climbers, but this movie is not an
adaptation, because it's also loosely inspired by other accounts, other
books about that same expedition, so in a way, what the scribes William
Nicholson and also Simon Beauty and filmmaker Baltasar gave us is a
reimagining but one that captures the essence and I think that's what
the actors themselves aimed to do. Josh Brolin, Jake Gyllenhaal, and
Jason Clarke, all of them play these real characters that have
families, some may have personal issues, and so the backstory or who's
waiting for them on the other side of the world serve as an emotional
anchor and a driving force. But you only get a glimpse of it, the
script doesn't spend too much time in every last one of them, there are
too many grounds to cover, so it provides just enough and then brings
the attention back to this whole man vs. nature, this ordeal at hand,
all over again, just like one of the characters says in the movie, "The
last word belongs to the mountain." EVEREST movie does make me wonder
why anyone would want to climb mount everest, but it's basically the
same as asking ourselves why we do certain things, why we choose to
attempt to conquer certain goals, whatever they may be, whether it's
the need to inspire and be inspired, whether it's trying to escape our
problems, whether it's the love of the climb, EVEREST goes to show that
that desire could be both prideful and humbling.
<|_=00=_|>
Like the real mountain, this movie is stunning to look at but a little
painful to watch. I kept longing for the voice-over guy from The
Deadliest Catch to chime in with some compelling back story about the
characters or the situation, just to ramp up the tension a little. We
don't get much time to get to know the characters; most of their lines
are designed mainly to give us information rather than developing their
individual personalities. We are left with archetypes: the Loudmouth
Texan, the Humble Mailman, the Brash Adventurer, the Careful Tour
Guide, the Taciturn Journalist. And then there's the annoying Keira
Knightly, on hand with her squeaky mouse voice and her runny nose, to
make sure everyone in the audience has a good cry.

I wish the movie had been more about Rob Hall--his hubris and his
heroism is really the heart and soul of this story. But you can't have
everything in two hours, can you?
<|_=00=_|>
"I want to see Everest". Could you be a bit more specific? Assuming
that you're not talking about making a trip to Nepal, there are still
many ways to interpret your request besides seeing the 2015 docudrama.
The world's tallest mountain is the center of the story in a 1998
documentary, a 2007 TV mini-series, a 2014-2015 TV series and another
film project still in development. All of these treatments are simply
titled, "Everest". More to the point, 2015's "Everest" (PG-13, 2:01)
re-tells the specific story from the '98 doc and a 1997 TV movie ("Into
Thin Air: Death on Everest"), but tells it more vividly than ever
before.

The '97, '98 and 2015 films all take us along for doomed expeditions up
the tallest peak in the Himalayas in May 1996, as told in at least five
books by survivors, most famously in journalist Jon Krakauer's 1997
best-seller "Into Thin Air", which is the primary basis for the
screenplay of 2015's "Everest". As the film tells us early on, by the
late 1980s, climbing Everest had transitioned from the domain of
adventurers like George Mallory and Edmund Hillary with minimal
equipment to a tourist destination for thrill-seekers with little
climbing experience, but enough money to buy state-of-the-art
equipment, stay in established base camps, and hire local Sherpas as
guides and, in some cases, to carry the climber's gear and cook meals.
But as the films about the 1996 climbs (and subsequent major
avalanches) have shown, no amount of money, gear, help or even
experience can insulate anyone from the dangers inherent in this climb.
"The last word," as one character in the 2015 film says, "always
belongs to the mountain." "Everest" follows two of the expeditions
which suffered tragic losses on the mountain on May 10-11, 1996. Rival
expedition leaders Rob Hall (Jason Clarke), of the company Adventure
Consultants, and Scott Fischer (Jake Gyllenhaal), of Mountain Madness,
decide to work together due to the large number of people trying to
reach the peak on May 10th. The main focus of the story is Hall's team,
which includes people with a wide range of personal backgrounds. Hall
is an experienced New Zealand mountaineer who has already climbed to
the top of Everest four times, including once with his wife, Jan (Keira
Knightley), who has stayed in New Zealand this time due to her
pregnancy. Doug Hansen (John Hawkes) is a mailman who attempted Everest
once before and wants to reach the summit as a way of inspiring
schoolchildren back home in Washington state. Yasuko Namba is a
47-year-old Japanese woman who has already climbed the other six of the
famed Seven Summits and wants to become the oldest woman to reach the
top of Everest. Beck Weathers (Josh Brolin) is an adventurous Texan who
is also pursuing the goal of the Seven Summits, but has lied to his
wife, Peach (Robin Wright), about his current trip to Everest. Jon
Krakauer is a writer for "Outside" magazine, but has never been on a
climb above 8000m. Several of the people portrayed in this film died on
Everest and others barely escaped with their lives.

"Everest" is much more than a high-altitude adventure movie or disaster
flick. Besides learning about the personal backgrounds of the
characters, we follow them on their entire adventure, from beginning to
end, learning a good bit about mountain climbing along the way. One of
the first things we learn is that, to these people, summit is a verb.
Hall lays out the dangers of summiting Everest in his briefing to his
team before they even set foot on the mountain. "Human beings are not
designed to function at the cruising altitude of a 747. Your bodies
will be literally dying," he says. This group understands all that, but
they've put their trust in the honest, personable and level-headed
Hall. And they've paid him a lot of money ($65,000 each) to get them to
the top of Everest ¬ñ and safely back down. At base camp, Hall and his
friend and colleague, Helen Wilton (Emily Watson), and their fellow
Adventure Consultants employees, teach, coach and take care of their
customers, including Hall taking them on some practice climbs. In spite
of the danger and discomfort that everyone experiences even going only
partially up the mountain, they're all looking forward to the real
thing. They know they'll be cold, exhausted and scared, while having
trouble breathing and facing the unpredictability of the mountain, but
they didn't come this far to quit. Their experiences turn out much
worse than anything any of them could have imagined.

"Everest" is a fascinating and gripping adventure. Like other movies
about mountain climbing, this one fails to give a satisfactory reason
for why these people risk their lives for little more than a great view
and bragging rights, but it's clear that there are a variety of
justifications within the group. The script depicts this climb as an
extremely risky venture, but allows us to marvel at the courage,
determination and, in some cases, self-sacrifice of these people. The
character development (thanks to a great script and a terrific cast) is
outstanding and the cinematography is as impressive as you'd expect
(especially in IMAX 3-D). The suffering of the climbers (even when
things are going according to plan), the thrilling moments (when
circumstances throw the plan into chaos), the heartbreak and the small
victories along the way all make us feel like we're right there on that
mountain. The hardships and the tragedies of this expedition are
sometimes shot and edited oddly, but are never exploitive. Icelandic
director Baltasar Korm√°kur brings us an engaging, eye-opening and
beautiful film that most are likely to appreciate. "A-"
<|_=00=_|>
This is the true story of two different expeditions in 1996 who attempt
to scale Everest but encounter massive storms on the descent down the
mountain. Everest is a stunning looking film that you come away from ,
feeling totally exhausted. Because it is so realistic you do feel you
are with the climbers at times. Sure , it's a stock disaster movie but
because of the nature of the true story behind it , you feel more
connected. The special affects are amazing and the performances from
Jason Clarke and Keira Knightley are great too. I watched this in 3D
but ended up taking the glasses off because it was so annoyingly dark
so i recommend watching it in 2D instead. It's a staggering statistic
that 1 in 4 people who attempt to get get to the summit of Everest ,
dies. Why do people do it? that question is asked in this film but
apart from the stock answer of " Because it's there" it is never really
answered . Perhaps there isn't one?
<|_=00=_|>
Everest is a film that tells the story of the 1996 Mount Everest
disaster, in which a climbing expedition is devastated by a severe
storm. The film was directed by 2 Guns director Baltasar Kormakur and
written by William Nicholson (Gladiator, Les Miserables) and Oscar
winner Simon Beaufoy (Slumdog Millionaire and 127 Hours), starring
Jason Clarke, John Hawkes and Josh Brolin. To start the film is
beautiful; the director of photography Salvatore Totino presented the
size and scale of the environment beautifully with multiple aerial
shots. Totino has a clear and linear style, which is refreshing after
the summer, which with the exception of a couple of films, has been
dominated by shaky-cam and extremely quick cuts.

The dialogue in the film stands out, however the plot does not. The
characters were underdeveloped, partially due to the lack of
introduction that is given to our main characters; this combined with
the slow pace of the first act causes the film to drag. However it
should be noted that the film makes a point of showing the process of
preparing to climb Everest. The second act is fine, not great though
and is intense especially during the storm and finally the film just
finishes, which really throws you out of the film. 

Although none of the performances in the film were award-worthy they
still were acceptable and in some cases quite good. Jason Clarke and
Josh Brolin had the meatiest roles, and they both provided good
performances. However out of the two, Jason Clarke provided the best
performance. The side characters were forgettable, with the exception
of Doug (John Hawkes) and Yasuko (Naoko Mori), with Doug being a
postman and Yasuko finally completing the seven summits, two things
which helped to distinguish them. Everyone in the film was
'care-beared', thankfully, and they had to be otherwise it would
impossible to tell who you were looking at.

One part of production that deserves praise in this film is the
lighting department who did a superb job on presenting a clear
environment; especially during the storm. A quick side note- the score
of the film was forgettable. 

Ultimately, Everest is an intense drama thriller that has its problems,
however is still beautiful to watch, I wouldn't purchase it on 3D
Blu-ray, as after watching it in 3D I didn't find anything spectacular
or noteworthy, however I would consider buying it on Blu-ray. Overall,
I am going to give Everest a C+ or 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Having just this week returned from climbing all 19,341 feet of
Kilimanjaro, I find myself intimately capable of reviewing "Everest",
the new thriller from Icelandic director Baltamar Korm√°kur.

Based on a true story from 1996, Jason Clarke and Jake Gyllenhaal play
Rob Hall and Scott Fischer respectively, rival organisers of commercial
climbing ventures whose businesses involve training well-paying clients
at Everest Base Camp and then taking them to the summit to experience
the 'ultimate high'. When the climbing season of 1996 becomes hugely
crowded, including a rather obnoxious team from South Africa, the two
rivals decide it is in the interests of their clients to combine forces
and attack the mountain together.

We are introduced to some of the clients including Texan Beck Weathers
(Josh Brolin), second-attempt postman Doug Hanson (John Hawkes) and
Japanese mountaineer Yasuko Namba (Naoko Mori) chasing her seventh and
final major mountain summit. Supporting the teams is hen-mother from
base camp Helen Wilton (Emily Watson), medical helper Caroline
Mackenzie (Elizabeth Debicki from "The Man from U.N.C.L.E.") and
hard-man Anatoni Boukreev (Ingvar Eggert Sigur√∞sson) who eschews the
use of such luxuries as oxygen. To add dramatic tension to the
situation, Rob Hall's wife (Keira Knightley) is heavily pregnant with
their first daughter.

In an extremely hostile environment, as a storm passes through, the
film neatly characterises how a single impetuous decision can have
devastating consequences.

The action scenes in the film are well-executed with a number of
vertiguous shots and heart-in-the-mouth moments, neatly escalated by
Dario Marianelli's effective score. At its heart this is (without
remembering the details of the original news story) a "will they, won't
they" survival story of the ilk of "The Towering Inferno" and other
classic disaster movies.

However, despite the long running-time and relatively leisurely
built-up, I found there to be a curious lack of connection between the
viewer and most of the key players. Perhaps this stems from the fact
that you know they were all fully aware of the potential dangers? Or
perhaps that the mountain seems a bigger character that any of the
humans involved? Whatever the reason, it's only the future parental
responsibilities of Hall that really resonate and make you root for him
as opposed to any of the other characters.

Some of the hardest special effects to pull off are those that depict
the natural world (as opposed to Krypton, Asgard etc), and in this
regard the team led by Jonathan Bullock (from the Harry Potter series)
does a great job. Whilst the "top of Everest" was in reality a set in
the Pinewood 007 stage, you'll well believe a man can freeze there.

As such, this is a decent and entertaining telling of a true-life
tragedy that will definitely work better on the big screen than the
small.

(If you found this review useful please see the graphical version at
bob-the-movie-man.com and enter your email address to receive future
reviews. Thanks).
<|_=00=_|>
Having read John Krakauer's account of the doomed Everest climb in his
book "Into Thin Air" I was anticipating a much more dramatic film with
a gripping script. The wonderful ensemble of actors didn't have much to
work with. The film is monotone with no edge-of-seat moments -- given
the life-or-death extreme setting. And not much of a dramatic
soundtrack either. The film has no cadence at all and just comes off as
a flat docudrama. The only highly emotional moment is when a dying Rob
Hall makes a final call to his wife in New Zealand. 

I am especially disappointed that a compelling part of Krakauer's
narrative is almost completely left out. If there is one pivotal
anti-hero in this story it is the NY socialite Sandy Pittman Hill.
She's accused of causing many of the crucial delays to the other
clients' ascent. Without these delays the climbers likely would have
likely gotten back to base camp before the storm came. The film shows
one of these critical delays in the absence of rope lines being fixed
to the summit. But the film never bothers to explain why this happened.
In reality Pittman's distraction of the Sherpa responsible for
installing rope lines is to blame ¬ñ at least according to Krakauer. 

This would have made for high drama, but the filmmakers inexplicably
show her character in just a few brief shots. One wonders if they were
threatened with a libel suit by Pittman, or simply co-opted by her
when, I assume, they interviewed her for background.

The blend of special effect and cinematography is excellent, and it's
not to be missed in 3D. But the story suffers from lack of oxygen.
