
Sequels long after its original is always risky business. Especially
one that I did not think needed it. But director Danny Boyle is back
with a follow-up to one of the most influential British films of
all-time.

I had only seen Trainspotting for the first time several years ago. I
remember being quite impressed by it, despite me never going nuts for
drug-related films. I was more interested by the style of film- making
and well developed characters. It also contain one of the most
distressing scenes I have seen in any film.

21 years later, and now we see where the lads are now. I saw the
trailer to see if it's going to be worth it, and I was surprised how
good it looked. Some of the dialogue I was hearing sounded like we were
instantly back in this mad environment. With the trailer doing plenty
to get me intrigued, I had pretty solid hopes for a worth sequel.

Amazingly, I felt it managed to all come together. For something that
I'm sure Boyle holds very dearly to his heart, you would expect him to
never go near this work again. Especially when he has never done a
sequel before. But we are now here, and I think everyone did a grand
job. I did not get the sense that the makers made this for an easy box
office return. I felt it was there to be an actual follow-up to the
events from 1996, which is fantastic to see. The tone is definitely
being aimed at the people who grew up with the original. With that in
mind, it will be interesting to see how it works to the generation that
are of the age the cast were in the original, and see if it can relate
to a broad age range.

The gang are back, and all four of them were great in their
performances. Honestly, it was like they had never left. Ewan McGregor
holds the film well as Renton, has many strong moments and you can tell
he is enjoying getting back in the saddle. Roberty Carlyle continues to
be as hilarious as Begbie was back in the day. Ewen Bremner as Spud
shines the most for me, was given great development and became such a
pivotal part of this sequel. I was really surprised to see Johnny Lee
Miller give a great performance, as it is only recently that he has got
back into movie acting after being busy with a TV series.

Another thing some sections of the audience like to see with sequels,
is the level of nostalgia. The use of that and memory was cleverly
done. It felt like it meant something, instead of just making us think
"I'd rather be watching the original".

I have only very minor negatives. There were moments that felt a bit
scattered at times and did not feel that well connected to the main
story.

I was not expecting this to be so enjoyable. Boyle and his done have
done a great job by keeping this a down-to-earth story and making feel
like it deserves a second installment. I think what the films big
strengths are, is what made the original so successful. The characters
are still as memorable as ever, the writing is sharp and funny when
needed, the visuals are engrossing and impactful, and the soundtrack is
strong. They also managed to make the film worth seeing for people who
haven't even seen the original, which was impressive to see.

When you think about it, a lot of Danny Boyle's work is about
friendship, and this one is no different. I will continue to be excited
for his next project, after making what will probably one of the big
surprises of 2017. What a start to the year!

Rating: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
What's up with all the rave reviews?

Look, it's not the worst movie ever made, but it's one of the most
pointless. The first was a force of nature that gripped you from the
beginning and took you on an adventure in a world foreign to most of
us. And it was hilarious, filled with unforgettable scenes and belly
laughs. This sequel is a nostalgic, where are they know, look back at
the main characters from the original.

It starts out choppy, never picks up a real driving force, and kind of
meanders around until it finds a way to end. Begbie is supposed to be
the villain that makes this thing move, but the rest of the crew aren't
stupid kids anymore, and the fear he instills in the other characters
just doesn't seem genuine. The Veronika character seems so forced.
There's no groundwork laid to set up her relationship with Sick Boy or
Renton. Her character is just too wise and put together to be a hooker
hanging out with this sad lot of old junkies.

Trainspotting had a compelling dynamic based on doomed friendships of
young junkies, and the attempt to escape the impending doom by the
protagonist. There was a force driving the movie from start to end. And
there were non-stop laughs along the way mixed in with junkie
philosophy and trippy drug-fueled scenes. That's all missing in this
sad sequel, which walks in the footsteps of its predecessor,
half-heartedly mimicking it. I wish I had just watched the first one
again instead.
<|_=00=_|>
T2 is all you could hope a sequel can be. Independent and respectful to
its predecessor while standing on its own merits as a great movie, art
even, powerful maybe. 20 years on things have changed,mostly. It's
funny,sad and mature above all else. Boyles directing is complemented
with a great script and beautiful cinematography. On to the important
aspects, the film plays cleverly With nostalgia without depending on
it,giving the audience of the 1996 cult classic something to savor,
while also standing independently as an entertaining and even inventive
film. Performances are a solid as you'd expect, Robert Carlyle returns
in a fantastic albeit expected performance as begbie. The film
introduces the advancement in technology over the intervening years
with inventive and clever special effects, however the original also
boasted some amazing trick of the lens. Finally upon leaving the cinema
one gets a feeling of bittersweet and sorrowful fulfillment, the
characters we've come to know over the last 20 years hive us nearly two
hours of nostalgia packed entertainment, yet one can't help but long
for its energetic,frenetic and classic predecessor, no matter how good
its sequel is, and it is.
<|_=00=_|>
Whatever people are saying this movie is great follow up to the first
and i cant say how they could have made it any better. I think this
movie did the best that it could, I mean I don't think everybody who
have seen it thinks it is as good as the first, of course. It is
impossible to make such a classic as Trainspotting and then make a even
better follow up. 

All that aside this was a great movie and I can't find any good reason
for this is a bad movie. This movie was really f***ing funny, and it
was really beautiful in a strange way, and it still had the same
feeling from the first. First of all it was just crazy to see all the
same characters together again, and I really think they did a great job
with the whole movie. I think it also really got deeper in to the first
Trainspotting and explained many things to the people who haven't read
the book, and you just got to know the characters so much better.

When I went in to see it, I was ready for this movie to be terrible,
but I just couldn't stop myself from liking it. The movie is not as
tough as the first one, but i think it has just as much comedy (if not
more) as the first. If you are a fan of Trainspotting you need to see
this movie, and again it is not as good as the first, but it comes as
close to as possible. Anyway it was an amazing experience to watch all
the same characters going through the same streets as the first and I
think they did it as good as they were able to. 

I wanna finish by saying, I think any fan of Trainspotting, should see
this movie as soon as possible, with an open mind and know it is very
different from the first, but still the old Trainspotting feeling. I
hope you found this review helpful, and I hope you will love the movie
as much as I do. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Following in the recent trend of dated sequels, reboots and kick-starts
(literally and figuratively) here Danny Boyle's 90s cult classic gets a
final shot in the arm; loosely hanging its narrative and character
development around Irving Welsh's literary sequel 'Porno' and trying to
circumnavigate a world two decades older  and wearier  than its
predecessor (despite the book only giving way to nine).

All of the familiar faces are back  and those who aren't are at least
in some way alluded to or given a not-so-subtle nod  but now generally
referred to by their given names: Mark (Renton), Simon (Sick-Boy),
Danny (Spud) and Frank (Begbie). And generally speaking, T2 is very
much a nostalgia piece, revisiting all of the iconic imagery, scenery
and/or moments which made the first movie so overtly unique, refreshing
and unforgettable: from the worst toilet in Scotland, to parallel chase
sequence moments, to snarky comments about the danger of underage
girls; this follow-up seems almost determined to create an abstract
sense of reflection. We as an audience are offered the chance to relive
and reminisce on past glories in much the same way as the characters
on-screen are. The misanthropic tone is a far cry from the jubilant
anger of the first incarnation however and McGregor's lengthy 'Choose
Life' explanatory diatribe (citing more modern pitfalls of Facebook,
Twitter and "Slut Shaming") is the only real moment in which any
character fully engages and communicates a sense of circumstantial
disillusionment. On a positive note, the character development of Spud
 who emerges as the primary, sympathetic protagonist  is excellent;
despite what feels like a somewhat-forced, Hollywood-friendly,
conclusive arc for Ewen Bremner's dim-witted addict. Overall, it's a
serviceable enough cap tip to the original, but truthfully lacks the
bark or bite to have the modern day resonance it craves (and the
original so easily garnered).
<|_=00=_|>
As we are frequently reminded during the course of T2, it's been 20
years since Danny Boyle's iconic and culturally eye-opening
Trainspotting. Mark Renton (Ewan McGregor) and his cronies, in a
monologue no doubt quotable to anybody who was a teenager in 1996,
famously decided not to choose life, and instead were on course for a
wasted existence of heroin addiction and crime. The main question asked
by this sequel is: Was it worth it? The group fans were so eager to see
back together may have less hair and more body fat, but they have
finally put aside personal squabbles (McGregor and Boyle made up after
the former was overlooked in favour of Leonard Di Caprio for The Beach)
and worked around ongoing contracts to reunite. While T2 struggles to
find a consistent tone and somewhat falls apart during its final act,
it will no doubt put a smile on any fan's face.

The fragility of male machismo and the sudden emergence of middle- age
are key themes running throughout the film, constantly harking back and
reminding the audience with sly nods of how much fun these guys were 20
years ago. Trainspotting began with a skinny, pale- faced Renton
running from store security, but here he runs dead-eyed on a treadmill.
Although it would seem that Renton successfully put himself on the
straight-and-narrow in Amsterdam after robbing his friends blind at the
climax of the first film, he finds himself compelled to visit his past
after suffering a medical scare. Returning to Edinburgh, not much has
changed. Simon, aka Sick Boy (Jonny Lee Miller), is still running
scams, now with his Bulgarian 'girlfriend' Veronica (Anjela
Nedyalkova); Spud (Ewen Bremner) lives alone and is hated by his
embarrassed son, successfully getting himself off heroin before making
his way back to it; and the psychopathic Begbie (Robert Carlyle) is
behind bars serving a 25 year jail term.

Irvine Welsh's sequel to the hit novel, Porno, has been talked about as
a film adaptation ever since the first film struck so many chords with
its audience. T2 is not this adaptation, but instead takes inspiration
from Porno, as well as unused material from its predecessor, to create
an original story. A straight-forward follow- up would not have done
the fans justice. The cultural impact was so significant that
Trainspotting played a big part in many young people's lives, to the
point where just to hear the opening few seconds of Lou Reed's Perfect
Day or Underworld's Born Slippy could transport any 30-40 year old back
to their youth. Boyle knows this, and teases us in a scene where Renton
re-visits his childhood home and fiddles with a record player. The
stomping drums of Iggy Pop's Lust for Life pumps out before he suddenly
takes the needle off the record. In that split second, the excitement
comes flooding back. Yet T2 isn't just a trip down nostalgia lane, it
confronts you with the difficult question of whether or not you are
where you thought you'd be when life seemed more care-free.

Cinematographer Anthony Dod Mantle infuses the sequel with a modern
energy, opting for a more colourful palette made dirtier with digital
grain. It contrasts the films' two different styles by slotting in
actual scenes from the original, often juxtaposing events happening now
with the characters' memories. The main conflict revolves around
Begbie's escape from prison and his learning of Renton's reemergence in
Edinburgh, as well as Sick Boy's resentment of his former best friend
robbing him of his share in the drug deal gone right. Begbie uneasily
shifts between comic relief and genuine antagonist, and Boyle seems
unsure what to do with the character. The biggest revelation is
Bremner's Spud, who is still the most sympathetic reprobate ever to
emerge from Welsh's text. Boyle and screenwriter John Hodge ingeniously
find a way to make him front and centre, turning this into his story,
and Bremner's performance is truly heartbreaking. A mishandled climax
and a lack of development for Veronica means that T2 falls way short of
its predecessor, and this will perhaps not have the same impact on any
audience members who saw Trainspotting outside of the '90s. But for
those of us who did, this is a welcome send-off.
<|_=00=_|>
Checked IMDb before watching. Saw the rave reviews but sadly these
people seem to be blinded by nostalgia. Please don't believe the
fanboy-ism.

Take away the nostalgic factor and you're left with mediocrity. A
generic uninspired by-the-numbers production that has nothing in common
with the original only the name and the same familiar faces.

Sadly this seems to be the norm these days and fits in with modern
times perfectly of generic sequels and reboots without any substance.
Gone are the days of creativity and originality that gave birth to
classic movies like trainspotting in the past.

Worst part: The plot is so paper thin it might as well have been
written for a cartoon. Zero effort has been put into the storyline. It
felt lazy, soulless, uninspired. No creativity whatsoever.

It says a lot when the best part of a movie are the flashbacks to the
original 21 year old predecessor. A sad state of affairs.
<|_=00=_|>
20 years after betraying his friends and running off with (almost) all
the money from a scam, Mark Renton is back in Edinburgh. It is his
first time back since the events that split him, Spud and Simon apart.
He looks up Spud and Simon but their lives are hardly much better than
when he last saw them. Spud, after getting his life together, has seen
it all unravel, to the point that he is suicidal. Simon is running his
father's loss-making pub, in between bouts of blackmail. Meanwhile, the
fourth person in their caper of 20 years' ago, the psychotically
intense Begbie, is in jail. He has no intention of staying incarcerated
and revenge is foremost on his mind...

The original Trainspotting was brilliant. Funny, gritty and harrowing
it dealt with the issue of drug addiction in a suffocatingly intense
yet humorous way. It wasn't just about drug addiction but friendship
and, ultimately, about a crime caper and betrayal. 

Directed by Danny Boyle, who directed Trainspotting 1, Trainspotting 2
doesn't have the grimness of the first movie, as the drug addiction
side is hardly a factor. For me, that is what made Trainspotting 1 a
masterpiece, the way it covered drug addiction in a realistic yet
humorous manner. T2 is more about friendship and the after-effects of
T1's betrayal, resulting it being more of an action-revenge sort of
movie. 

Plot is good, though there are some contrivances and inconsistencies.
Quite emotional at times too, as we see some loops from T1 closed,
friends reunited and 40-somethings taking stock of their lives.

Humour-wise, T2 is great, and as good as, if not better than, T1. Some
very funny scenes and dialogue.

Not essential that you've watched T1 to follow and enjoy T2, as there
are enough flashbacks and other clues to fill you in on what happened
in T1. However, watching T1 before T2 certainly would help the
experience. There are plenty of side-references and subtle nods to T1
and these enhance the enjoyment of T2.

Overall, a great movie, though not in the same league as Trainspotting
1. Very funny at times, with a good plot and some interesting themes.
<|_=00=_|>
An immensely challenging sequel to produce; Danny Boyle's reprisal was
never going to satisfy old fans and newcomers alike.

After twenty years, there would be obvious ambiguity in how to go about
writing and directing this cult-classics' sequel. 2017 is brimming with
sequels of both original movies and installments to well-established
series; thus this may be a recurring issue in the near future. T2
Trainspotting is very clearly a movie made for the fans of the
original, for people who loved the first film but haven't watched it in
years, and have fond memories of it. This film preys upon the fact that
some people will be so wound up in their own nostalgia that they won't
give this film the independence from the original it needed.

T2 struggles to declare itself a story of its own; literal scenes from
the original Trainspotting are shown to portray a reflection on the
past repeating itself; but all that this shows is an unwillingness to
write a completely original plot. It is likely Danny Boyle did this to
appease fans, as going in a completely different direction would then
annoy those who are devoted to the first film.

The story has a great premise; the Mark Renton (Ewan McGregor) returns
to Scotland and meets with the lovable Spud (Ewen Bremner) and best-pal
Simon (Jonny Lee Miller) once again - much to their initial disgust.
Not long after, the return of Begbie (Robert Carlyle) fills the plot
with more drama than a soap opera. The events that take place are
mostly for comedic purpose, under the premise that the audience already
know the characters (fair to assume, but not taking into account
standalone viewers). A specific scene in which Simon and Mark are
forced to perform a song in a loyalist pub had me laughing out loud in
the cinema; so often the attempts at making the film light- hearted
were received with a good response.

That being said, one of the things about the original is that it wasn't
light hearted in the slightest. The characters were the only thing
lovable about the film, not what happened to them necessarily, whereas
T2 swaps this around - the environments were far more ostentatious in
this film, bright neon lighting and fewer disgusting and dull backdrops
make for a more optimistic view in this film - quite the opposite of
what the original was about. It seems in trying to appease the fans of
the original and placing the same characters in a repetitive-yet more
flamboyant setting has managed to stray from the roots of what made
Trainspotting great.

T2 could have been set anywhere provided the main characters still
acted in the way that they do, and that's a shame - every piece of
Trainspotting was necessary to put together the plot that was made.

Despite all of this - T2 is a good film. It's not a great film, but it
certainly isn't awful either. Its' greatest failing is that it can't
decide whether to create an entirely new story - which would abandon
the roots of the original - or to re-hash Trainspotting - which would
be total cowardice. The film does the worst of both worlds, in that it
doesn't have a great deal of original thought but it also doesn't
capture what the first film did. 

On its own merits, T2 is a funny film; and it is enjoyable to watch. I
didn't leave the theatre as disappointed as I would have anticipated,
and the film didn't fail to put a smile on my face during. Despite the
20 year gap, the actors clearly haven't lost track of their alter-ego's
nature - the performances were great and the chemistry that the actors
had was immense, with a gleaming nod to Robert Carlyle.

I can still say I recommend T2, its not like the original in terms of
quality or theme, but I would be lying if I said I didn't enjoy myself.
I can make an odd comparison to another sequel, Aliens, in that both T2
and Aliens are very enjoyable, but both films also spoil the point of
their predecessor in a sense.
<|_=00=_|>
After 21 years of waiting, the sequel to 'Trainspotting' has finally
become a reality, and what a fantastic ride it is. Sure it lacks the
flare that made the original the classic it is, but with new ideas and
a worthy plot that wraps up the original's ending, 'T2 Trainspotting'
finds inventive ways to allow us to love the characters we grew up
with.

Returning to Edinburgh after 20 years in Amsterdam, Renton tries to
re-connect with his former crew (Spud, Simon and Begbie) despite
leaving them robbed at the conclusion of the first film. With a mix of
black comedy and emotionally resonant drama, we are launched back into
each of the individual's lives as their past comes back to haunt them.
With beautiful cinematography, a fantastic soundtrack that once
famously featured Lou Reed's 'Perfect Day' and Iggy Pop's 'Lust for
Life' and a rather intense conclusion that leaves us on the edge of our
seats, a very worthy sequel.
