
Liked this a lot. I was 4 when I first saw Pete's dragon way back in
'83 or whatever back in England. I remember how much I loved the idea
of Pete's dragon. I watched the original a few years back and realized
that it was a fairly average musical with an animated dragon. But
still!!!! I remember how great the story or idea of a personal dragon
was. The modern spin is very sentimental, but never cheesy. Everything
was great; from casting to special effects. I really enjoyed this
movie. If you remember the old Pete's dragon from back when you were a
skid, you'll love this movie. To be completely honest, there were
several tear jerker moments. I guess they really nailed down the
aspects of a child becoming suddenly orphaned. They also did a really
good job if propelling the story so that it never sat idle. Robert
Redford played the integral old timer part, but played it exceptionally
well as to be expected. It is also relevant to mention that I typically
do not review movies I have just seen immediately after I have seen
them. This film made an exception for me.
<|_=00=_|>
Aah, where to begin. I was five years old when the original came out
and it was the first ever film I saw on the big screen. For that
experience alone I'll treasure the "old" 'Pete's Dragon' forever.

Now to the "new" film. I'm not normally into family movies, but because
I hold such a deep love for the original, I just couldn't resist to go
to a pre-screening of this remake. If they didn't honor the original,
at the very least I could voice my opinion afterwards on the internet.
I needn't have worried - although it may come as a shock to some
viewers that the film doesn't have much in common with the original at
all. But this new 'Pete's Dragon' is about as far away from a cheap
cash grab as it could be. 

Unlike the original, the new film starts on a somber note (think the
beginning of The Jungle Book, Tarzan or Bambi) in that a little boy is
orphaned by an accident and left alone in the woods. But just like the
best fairy tales, I feel a good story often needs some darker themes:
for without those, the joyous moments wouldn't feel as intense and
rewarding. And this is very true here, for what follows is a tale of
friendship, adventure, magic and wonder like I hadn't seen since those
wonderful Spielberg films in the eighties.

The story is sentimental - but never cheesy - and that is one of its
greatest strengths: it dares to have a heart but it's not the kind of
over-sugary tripe we so often get from big studios. The film's biggest
asset, though, is easily Elliot. I had feared (because I had seen a
trailer) that Elliot would be a cringe-worthy CGI creature of the worst
kind, but the trailers really did the special effects wizards a bad
service: the dragon design is perhaps the most beautiful (and I'm not
ashamed to say it: cute) I've ever seen.

It blends perfectly with the natural surroundings (gorgeous New Zealand
forests) and while this particular dragon has more traits of a playful,
over-sized dog than of a dinosaur, it looks so realistic you believe
you can touch and feel Elliot's fur (the 3-d works great for this
film), and his face is so expressive you forget you're watching a CGI
character.

All in all, this really is a film I can whole heartedly recommend to
people of all ages, but if you have kids, watch it as soon as possible,
you won't regret it. Despite going down a very different route than the
original, it's still a throwback to a different era when Disney made
the best quality family films (which were so good they are still
immensely popular today), utterly devoid of the now so common cynicism,
and full of heart, joy and wonder. 9 stars out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed 'Pete's Dragon' because it made me remember that
there is magic if you dare to believe! 

To be fair, there were a few things that were not too great (like some
of the actors), but for some reason I could see beyond that. Thanks to
the beautiful story itself, the magnificent cinematography, the
lifelike CGI animation of Elliot (the dragon) and the superb acting of
Oakes Fegley as Pete.

David Lowery did a good job directing the movie, and casting Robert
Redford as Meacham was a smart choice.

I can only recommend this movie - and not only to families and kids,
but to everybody who's open to fairy tales and magic.
<|_=00=_|>
This updated version wasn't quite what I was expecting, though
surprisingly good. The dominant theme is friendship and family and they
explore this through a rather subtle tension. Pete loves Elliot, but he
also needs a family (which he finds in surrogate form through Bryce
Dallas-Howard, her fianc√© and his young daughter).

The threat feels shoehorned in, as Karl Urban's inexplicably vengeful
logger decides to hunt down the dragon and do...well, he hasn't really
thought that one through. It's a weak plot device that sells the story
a little short, but is ultimately forgivable. I had a sizeable lump in
my throat at several points in the film, and I'm not one for
sentimentality. Director Lowery handles the emotion well, particularly
through an inspired folksy soundtrack.

There are distinct shades of ET here, as a boy comes to terms with the
impossibility of a critical friendship. Not a lot really happens in
this movie, but what you get is well paced and thoughtful.

Well worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first IMDb review, I really liked this movie that's why I
felt the urge to let the people know how amazing It is! 

Firstly I want to tell you that I had my doubts, I din't know if it was
going to be any good. Luckily the doubts disappeared as soon as I saw
the first scene, I'm not going to spoil it but it was an amazing intro
to a brilliant movie which is always keeping you interested and
intrigued.

Disney has a unique, almost magical way of touching your soul, and it
did just that in this movie. It will make you feel like a kid again, no
matter how old you are. It will make you feel sad, it will make you
feel happy and it will make you feel angry. I'm not ashamed to admit
that I cried a lot and also caught myself yelling at the screen! You
share the character's emotions and you are feeling like you belong in
the story. Another thing that helps with that is the kid who plays
remarkably good, and the dragon that feels like real.

I strongly recommend it to you. Anyone can watch it. Your kids, you and
even the older people can enjoy this amazing fairy-tale.
<|_=00=_|>
I worry about taking pot shots at a movie like Pete's Dragon. No one
wants a twentysomething's jaded take on a kid's movie. I am aware I am
not the target audience. The ticket vendor's surprise at my selection
was no surprise to me. What can I say? The other option was an
anthropomorphic hot dog. I took the chance because a children's film
can be a light fantasy. Disney has taught everyone that "fun for the
whole family" is not a death sentence. So when I criticize Pete's
Dragon, understand I am not assailing aspects of the genre, e.g. the
simplistic plot. That's not the movie's goal nor should it be my point.
Pete's Dragon fails because it is utterly devoid of wonder.

True, wonder is a pretty squishy concept. Fortunately for me, my sense
of wonder need not go on trial. That's because of my official
co-reviewer, the kid who sat immediately next to me in the otherwise
empty theater. He looked about the same age as Pete, our protagonist. I
regret not asking. Regardless, I understand why this story could be
appealing to my new colleague. Pete is tragically separated from his
parents, but is rescued by a forest dwelling dragon. Pete names his new
friend Elliot and together they spend their days playing in the woods
and sleeping in a tree/cave/house. It is an idyllic existence, but it
is ruined by the interference of other humans. Pete is threatened by
greedy loggers and, the Nazis of family movies, child protective
services. However, our hero finds some allies in ranger Grace (Howard)
and her storytelling father (Redford). The entire movie scored two
responses from my associate. First, a chuckle when Elliot gets a dosing
of soot from a chimney. Second, a genuine chortle when an EMT dropped a
stretcher. That part was my favorite too. Almost Two hours, two laughs.
I refuse to believe this is the best Disney can offer. Admittedly, my
second did applaud at the close, but this reaction was not half as
enthusiastic as when his dad bought him a Slurpee.

Now hopefully I can take over explain what went wrong. First, the
titular dragon. It is a dog. Elliot the big green dog. Elliot chases
his tale. Elliot sneezes on people. Elliot is a dog. Whyyyyyyyyyyy?
This is one of the most pathetic attempts at satisfying the boundless
imaginations of children I have ever seen. Even the flying shots are
derivative, all rendered in CG that just screams "I was meant to be
seen in 3D." Well I'm cheap. All the other characters were equally
tedious. Any idiosyncrasy or characteristic would have been
appreciated. You can learn all there is to know about these
personalities in 15 seconds. For the remainder of the movie, they will
never surprise you, or charm you, or do anything worthy or remembrance.
Part of the reason I attended Pete's Dragon was to gather data on the
condition of Redford's career. I dread saying this, but this another
performance suggesting he is washed up. Then again, in the role,
Redford might never have stood a chance. Watching him mug like he was
witnessing the second coming because a dragon turned a lighter shade of
green was embarrassing. Another sad waste of talent was the
cinematographer. The forest itself was the most magnetic character in
the film. The natural beauty set a tone, only to be beaten down by the
ham-fisted elements. So yes, I guess there was some wonder. Not enough
to be redeemable. Pete's Dragon is a soulless morality tale on the
importance of the nuclear family. Its grand aspiration was being
inoffensive enough so you could bring your children. Disney can do
better and we should watch better.
<|_=00=_|>
The 1977 'Pete's Dragon' was a favourite as a child. As far as by
today's standards, while not a great film and not as good through adult
eyes (plus there are better live-action Disney films, especially the
timeless 'Mary Poppins'), it's still well worth watching.

Despite having some really talented names on board, expectations were
both of great interest but feeling dubious. It did have potential to be
better than the 1977 film, and still stand very well on its own, or it
could have been a lazy and pointless cash-grab. While it is not perfect
by any stretch of the imagination, it proved to be a better film than
anticipated.

Not one of the best live-action Disney re-imaginings like 'Cinderella'
and 'The Jungle Book' (much better than 'Maleficent' though), but still
for a re-imagining 'Pete's Dragon' was a good one. It is let down by
the final act, where the darker and more action-packed tone jars with
what was happening before in the film and at this point the film starts
to feel rushed. The villain just felt very shoehorned in and out of
place, for the sake of "needing" an "obligatory" villain for conflict
(that to me wasn't necessary), not helped by the hammy performance of
Karl Urban that just feels out of kilter with the rest of the cast.

Where 'Pete's Dragon' especially soars is in the very charming and
touching friendship chemistry between Pete and Elliot, essentially the
heart of the film. Speaking of Elliot, he is a very lovingly crafted
creature with not just beautiful details to him but also with a
personality that wins one over in how endearing he is.

'Pete's Dragon', apart from some overly grim lighting in places, looks
great visually, the splendid scenery being especially good complemented
beautifully by cinematography that's atmospheric and picturesque. The
music is lovingly whimsical and fits the film well when it could easily
have not done.

Scripting serves its purpose well and doesn't hurt the atmosphere or
the central friendship at all, weakening only with the villain and when
the film gets darker. David Lowery directs very capably and balances
the various elements well. Although it won't work, and hasn't worked,
for some (with criticisms of it being thin narratively, slow-moving and
either too sentimental or cold), for me the story (radically altered
with a more sombre tone for example) was immensely charming and
appreciated the calmer, straightforward, more gentle and deliberate
nature of the story which allowed the friendship to resonate. Never
found it mawkish and thought that there was enough emotion without it
overshadowing things, though admittedly there is not much that is
particularly new.

Urban aside, the acting is good. Oakes Fegley and Oona Laurence are
very appealing, while Bryce Dallas Howard is luminous and compassionate
and, while not being on screen for long, Robert Redford achieves the
right balance of the grizzled and the sympathetic. But essentially it
is Elliot and the friendship between him and Pete that carry the film,
and, as they should, captivate most strongly.

In summary, while with its foibles 'Pete's Dragon' was a much more
impressive re-imagining than expected after mixed expectations. 8/10
Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
The boy Pete is e traveling with his parents, however there is a car
accident in a lonely road and only Pete survives. He runs to the forest
and is surrounded by a pack of wolves, but a dragon saves him and Pete
calls him Elliot. Six years later, Pete (Oakes Fegley) is found by the
ranger Grace (Bryce Dallas Howard) and her family and she brings Pete
home. He is welcomed by her father Meacham (Robert Redford): her
daughter Natalie (Oona Laurence); and her husband Jack (Wes Bentley),
but he misses Elliot. Meanwhile the dragon seeks Pete out and Jack's
brother Gavin (Karl Urban) sees him. He organizes a posse to capture
the dragon while Grace drives Pete, Natalie and Meacham to the place
where the boy was found. What will happen to the dragon Elliot?

"Pete's Dragon" is an enjoyable family entertainment, with a lovely
story of a boy that recalls "Mowgli" or "Tarzan" that is raised by a
dragon. The special effects are top-notch and is impressive to see the
interaction of Pete and the dragon. The target audience is children but
adults will certainly like this beautiful film. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil: "Meu Amigo, O Drag√£o" ("My Friend, the Dragon")
<|_=00=_|>
Ever have films that you know aren't beyond amazing but you love them
anyway? Something happens to be hilarious or an old action movie
happens to be a fun but you know it won't receive rave reviews. That is
how I feel about the more serious remake of Pete's Dragon. Although it
has received high reviews, its no ET or Its a Wonderful Life. There are
flaws that this movie has, but none diminish the overall quality. In
fact, most of the flaws work as both strengths and weaknesses.
Regardless of what's good or bad, the movie really got to me. 

This remake of the 1977 musical animated/live-action comedy is
completely different. In this case, different mean better. I'm a sucker
for 2D animation mixed with live-action and that was the sole reason
for me liking it the little bit that I did. This remake ditches almost
all of that and goes for a Tarzan-meets-ET vibe. Pete and his family
are on a road trip where a tragic car crash leads Pete to be the sole
survivor in a small town in the middle of nowhere. Six years later,
Pete (played by newcomer Oakes Fegley) has been able to survive in the
woods with the aide of his best friend, a dragon he names Elliot.
Elliot looks a little bit like traditional dragon, but he is presented
more like a big green dog in this. That's because that's the essence of
the story: a boy and his dog. A lonely boy has the most unlikely best
friend. People have pointed out that Elliot is not in much of the film.
The movie did not need to feature Elliot in most of the movie, it is
about Pete's escapades made safe by his dragon. 

So Elliot has helped Pete survive in the woods for the past six years.
When lumberjacks start to tear down parts of the woods, Pete is spotted
by young Natalie (Oona Laurence) and her aunt Grace (Bryce Dallas
Howard) who is a forest ranger. They help Pete adjust to life outside
of isolation while trying to make sense of his past. Grace's father
(Robert Redford) had been telling legends of a local dragon, unsure if
he saw a real one himself when he was younger. So Pete leads Grace and
her family to Elliot where they try to help him escape to freedom.

This is a beautiful and magical film that takes me back to being a kid.
I'm sure some kids may find this boring, but I found myself totally
enchanted throughout the whole movie. A few times, Pete's mother and
Grace say to him "You are the bravest boy I've ever known." They way
that all that goes down is enough to make me melt. The movie may be
simplistic with not much layers in some of the characters of story, and
the premise may have been done before, but all is executed so
perfectly. That is how I think this flaw serves as a strength, it
didn't need to be all complicated for the viewer to be enchanted. Want
a complex film? Go see Double Indemnity. Pete's Dragon proves that a
movie can be simplistic but still wondrous, if only done right.

What keeps this film from being just eye-candy are the actors. They are
all so charming and done to perfection. The stand out is Oakes Fegley
as Pete. Rarely do I ever see a performance by a child done with such
grace and at such a high degree. He barely has any lines, so his
behaviour needed to be extra perfect. These days its pretty hard to be
a silent actor, but Oakes is perfect. In a year of feral boys, this is
the best performed. And his relationship with Eliot is so wonderful.
One of the better friendships of recent times. Jacob Tremblay from Room
was the most recent breakout child star with a promising future, now we
have Oakes Fegley. I would love to see them do a movie together. Oona
Laurence is also a great young actress. Bryce Dallas Howard, Wes
Bentley, Karl Urban, and Robert Redford are also fine.

Is is a big deal that it doesn't achieve the highest honour? Of course
not. This is an enchanting feel-good movie that everybody can enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Having never seen the original Pete's Dragon I had no idea what the
story was except that it evidently involved someone called Pete and a
dragon! From the first few moments I was drawn in and captivated
throughout. The dragon itself was wonderful - quite unlike other on
screen imaginings. He was expressive and I loved that he didn't
"talk"....something that immediately ruins any suspension of belief -
think Dragonslayer's Sean Connery voiced incarnation!!! Please! The
film took me through intrigue, joy, pathos, anger, heartbreak and
laughter - not necessarily in that order. I cried an awful lot! Great
film and if it doesn't touch you then you have no soul.
