
On The Job is exciting not only because of its story that tackled the
gun-for-hire business, something that maybe unique in the Philippines,
because of its rampant killings; it is also exciting because the birth
of new Philippine cinema is now palpable. 

The past years have seen new writers and directors handle different
urban poor stories, this one not only gives us a glimpse on the
machinery of the killing business and how it affects the lives of the
poor, but also let us see the powerful rich (the military) that runs
the country. 

Every actor did a good job, although I feel Angel Aquino looks a little
too glamorous for her role. The script was believable, the pacing was
fast, the characters were given enough time to develop (except maybe
Marquez's son's story that did not develop further) and most of all, I
love the realistic ending. I also like that the movie left a glimmer of
hope when the police partner recovered the phone. With all the horrors
happening in the society, there is still hope. 

I think this is one of the year's best, I am happy that people went to
see this movie and I hope other worthy films will get wider audience
next time.
<|_=00=_|>
The story and pacing smoothly complimented each other. I like how the
intensity just builds up right from the get go during the first scene
up until the last one. Wonderfully moody cinematography combines with
an excellent soundtrack and some breathlessly tight editing to create a
surprisingly dark and nihilistic film.

It's also great to see characters that were fleshed out especially that
of the three main characters. We get to know them more instead of
simply just following what they do. This is one of the things I like
about the film in terms of characterization, we get a glimpse of their
individual lives as opposed to just going right at the center of the
conflict.

This film pretty much shows what an ensemble really is. There are
really no small roles here, as everyone's given something to do and
they all did their parts well. From the opening assassination to the
hospital shootout to the sequence that closes the film, the action
beats in "On the Job" are technically polished while simultaneously
visceraleven intimatein their brutality. Matti and his cohorts have
scored a home-run here.
<|_=00=_|>
Mario (Joel Torre)and Daniel (Gerald Anderson) are convicts who are
being sneaked out of prison and hired as hit men by a
powerfully-connected syndicate. Mario is set for retiring since he is
to be released from prison already, while Daniel is his apprentice and
heir-apparent.

After they bungle a job to execute a policeman, the secure web of
protection around them begin to unravel as an idealistic NBI lawyer
Francis Coronel Jr. (Piolo Pascual) and a maverick but honest policeman
PO1 Joaquin Acosta (Joey Marquez) threaten to throw this assassination
ring wide open to its highest levels.

"On the Job" is a gritty, honest, no-holds-barred Filipino film. The
script by Michiko Yamamoto and Erik Matti fearlessly trace the
operations of this gun-for-hire business from the lowly trainees to the
gunmen to the middlemen (Vivian Velez) to the connections inside the
prison (William Martinez) to the police protectors (Lito Pimentel) to
the higher echelons of the military. 

We also get to peek into the family lives of these men. Mario has a
wife (Angel Aquino) who is cuckolding him and a daughter (Empress
Schuck) in law school. Francis is married to the daughter (Shaina
Magdayao) of a lawmaker (Michael de Mesa) who is the pawn of a corrupt
general (Leo Martinez). Joaquin has been at odds with his boss, stuck
at being PO1 even after 30 years of service, with a harried wife
(Rosanna Roces) and a drug pusher as a son (JM de Guzman).

The theme and the style is indie but the stars are big names. It may be
considered distracting for indie purists, but this stunt casting of
actors against type was actually part of the charm of this film. 

I have to admit though that the most difficult casting decision to
accept was Gerald Anderson, not only because of his attractive mestizo
looks (hitmen should not be too conspicuous, should they?), but because
he had to act side by side with the flawless Joel Torre. Torre was a
man possessed in this role, he was never out of character up to the
very end, always very believable and realistic. 

Piolo Pascual postured a lot in the start, which made his
characterization unconvincing at first. However when he got into the
groove of his character, especially in the second half, he will get us
over on his side.

Joey Marquez was a puzzling choice of an actor for a character in this
film. At first, during the teasers, I thought he was badly miscast in
this role as a cop. But as I was watching the film, I realized the
wisdom of his casting. He was key in providing the moments which served
to lighten the intense mood this film creates.

The technical aspects of the film are very good, particularly the
cinematography and the film editing. The atmosphere created was very
tense and exciting. The suspense was unbearable as the pacing is
frenetic and you would not know what will happen with succeeding
scenes. This film is NOT predictable.

Despite being an excellent film, there are some cons, but relatively
minor issues only. I have already mentioned how the casting of Anderson
stretched believability. Also, the addition of what seemed to be
unnecessary sex scenes for both Anderson and Pascual sort of derailed
from the story a bit.
<|_=00=_|>
On The Job has some intriguing stuff, it's a story about four lives
connected in one conspiracy behind the law. What's going on is as many
as its moral ambiguities. It is a heavy story, but it consistently
delivers thanks to the people who are involved. The craft is excellent
for giving an absorbing quality with pure tension. The stellar cast
brings plenty of life within the characters. Beyond the surfaces, the
film is already fascinating itself, but it's a very ambitious picture.
OTJ is a rare modern Filipino film that has an actual engaging story to
tell in a brilliantly slick and exhilarating way.

The subjects of the film are the realities of crime and moral
ambiguity. Even though the lead character's motivation is good, it
won't make his job look any less terrible. It never glosses anything
about what they do and that's the interesting part. There are no actual
heroes and a dirty work will always be a dirty work, which provides
absolute danger within the surface. The film is best at tension, every
set piece is like a ticking bomb, it gets louder and louder until it
fires to an unpredictable shock, then more action. It's amazing stuff.
When there's no blood and gunshots, the film explores the characters.
They are in fact not bad people after all. They have their own problems
and only do those things to provide for their loved ones, though
there's a fear that they might bring their work into their personal
lives, but that just makes it human.

Tatang is mostly ruthless, but Joel Torre gives all the humanity which
balances the character's depth and criminal side. Gerald Anderson
shines remarkably. His greatest feat is the arrogance he brings, makes
his character feel more threatening. Piolo Pascual surprisingly has
something beyond his typical charms. My favorite among is Joey Marquez,
who gives the cop a natural rage and fear that can be relatable and
somehow enjoyable to watch.

The film never depicts Metro Manila as pleasant, it's like hell on
earth where violence may happen anytime in the city. Well it is in fact
one of the rotten places of the country. Other than that, the film has
most the best things in a classic crime thriller: noir feel, anxiety
filled action, twisted dark humor, and a cinematography that glamors
around the filth. Director Erik Matti keeps everything interesting and
magnetic.

OTJ is a great surprise among the local blockbusters today. We don't
usually get a well made Filipino movie like this nowadays unless it's
an independent film. Otherwise, it's a compellingly grim crime drama
that may possibly stuck in your mind in a while. Personally, I think
this is the best film I've seen this year so far. Since it's not really
the greatest ever, I think this is what we need. It has a lot of what's
missing in most modern blockbusters. It also has the craftsmanship and
down-to-earth performances that would impact more to the audience. With
all the merits, OTJ is easily recommendable.
<|_=00=_|>
I am surprised to see this movie is just 6+ here on IMDb as it's
definitely an 8+ movie. It's full of action. They movie has good
acting, good story and good speed. It's never boring and is made well.
There is lots of action and it's done very well. The actors are well
cast and their acting is good too. There is a story and we get to see
the life in Manila. The shooting is realistic and so are the action
scenes.

See the trailer before you decide to skip this movie as that will
change your mind. Don't go by the rating here as this is definitely
skewed (I am not sure why?)This movie is way better than that and lot's
of Hollywood action movies. If you like action movies this is for you
and it will keep you on edge right through.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the type of movie I will not be ashamed to recommend to some of
my foreigner friends. The story was well-written, and the casting was
just superb, not because the actors were mainstream, but because they
kept me captivated in an agonizing kind of way. 

It's high time for us to support this kind of film. Filipinos should
not only support the mainstream films but should really start realizing
that this is the type of movie our country needs to produce so our
people will have their eyes widely open with the rampant corruption in
this country and be responsible enough in casting their votes during
election.
<|_=00=_|>
On the job is one of those unique movie I've seen from Philippines, I
consider this a masterpiece. It's imaging the true scene happening
right now in the country.

After watching this, I already know how cruel is the underground
activities in the country, on the job really did a great job in
revealing the true nature of underground crime in the country.

It is very fulfilling because of the fact that you can learn from this
movie, whether to help or not to help is the main reason I find this
movie on the job fulfilling.

I also like the mixed drama, romance of course and the twist at the
end, sometimes the same scene happened in real life and also the action
is not quite substandard, they did a good job in making it to the
higher level, at first I did not expect that this movie is from
Philippines. Later on, I manage to give a WOW on this one, great job on
the job.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is beautiful despite the fact that it depicts the dirtier
aspects of our country - geographically, politically, socially
speaking. Seriously, this movie is a must-see for everybody. I wish I
see more of this in mainstream Pinoy cinemas. Everything is well put
together, the music is exciting, the editing and cinematography is
professionally done, the story is tight, the camera-work is engaging (a
work of art, a labor of love. It's that good), the opening scene
captures your attention, and the ending leaves you satisfied (or
wanting more). It's perfect. 

- read my full review on Blogger:
http://strangereview.blogspot.com/2014/01/on-job-
2013.html#sthash.GKoXwyiy.dpuf
<|_=00=_|>
"On the Job" is a neo-noir story of crime linked to political and
military corruption. It distinguishes itself and rises above the pack
by its novel plot that's reality-based, by its locations in Manila or
however the sets were done such as the prison and apartments, by the
excellent performance of Joel Torre, and by its character development
of several main characters. The movie is dynamic. The story has plenty
of dramatic conflict, and it has action scenes. It has plenty of
variety. The script doesn't waste screen time with irrelevant scenes.
It knows how to use the scarce time to advance the characters and plot,
keeping us engaged while providing depth to the story.

The story revolves around high officials, including an army general,
who remove political opponents by assassinating them. They use buffers
or layers of intermediaries to shield themselves. Their trick is to
temporarily spring prisoners from jail who do the hits. Torre is such a
hit-man, and he's training a young man, Gerald Anderson, to do the
same. Their relationship is somewhat like that in "The Mechanic", that
is, old pro mentoring a younger and cockier guy, but we are dealing
here with a completely different milieu, a much lower level of economic
wealth, different motivations and the jail background.

Two policemen are on the case, again an older and more experienced man
(Joey Marquez) whose honesty has kept him from being promoted; and then
a younger man (Piolo Pascual). He has the big problem that his
father-in-law is among the upper-level corrupt set in on the murders.
The kingpin of them is a general (Leo Martinez).

Definitely recommended for fans of crime and neo-noir films.
<|_=00=_|>
I think with a bit of polish and some better music choices, this flick
would rank up there with "The Godfather" and "Apocalypse Now" -
everyone involved should be proud of this work. It is really that good.
It's hard to discuss without diving into the plot or discussing local
and global politics. Just watch it!
