
I was looking forward to this movie, despite it's IMDb score.

I loved the mood & setting, loved the creatures, loved the historical
twist. But I'm just sick and tired of the forced character roles, where
men are portrayed as dumb cowards or brutes, and women as brave and
strong.

It would have been easy enough to balance the roles out, and create a
more interesting dynamic. As it stood, the characters were just
irritating, and stood in the way of enjoying the movie.

Too bad, because the rest of the movie was pretty good. Especially the
sets, props, and creature designs. I just couldn't enjoy it because of
the roles the cast had to play. Very disappointing.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a very good movie. The premise may sound promising. The
archaeological angle on horror is one that's always interested me, and
The Pyramid throws some Greek Mythology in the mix for good measure.
Well, the most mythological thing you'll experience during this movie
is wishing Hades would drag you into the underworld so you'd never have
to remember this atrocity. It's so bad.

Visually it reminded me of Alien vs Predator and As Above, So Below, so
it's not very original. Atmospherically it reminded me of The Descent,
which dealt with claustrophobia infinitely better than this. It's your
standard "team trapped underground" story where they get picked off one
by one. Problem is, every character is one-dimensional so their deaths
leave absolutely no impact. The characters themselves are irrational
and annoying. "Hey, we just heard harrowing screams from our friend
back there, let's split up!" Great plan. Oh, and the villains in this
movie are one of a kind: Pussy cats. Yeah. Killer cats. And don't
worry, the big bad wolf shows up too but I'd rather not say anymore
because it's truly a catastrophe best seen for yourself. 

This is just a dumb movie. I don't know how else to say it. The
characters are dumb, the mythos is dumb, the deaths are dumb. There is
one jump scare that kind of works but other than that it's horribly
directed (going back and forth between found-footage and regular
filming was a horrific idea), generic trapped underground story with a
third act so ludicrous it's almost worth watching for the laughs. The
Pyramid is nothing new, don't waste your time.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to this film but was sadly disappointed.

This had the potential to be a really good atmospheric creature movie
but it suffered from some very bad acting especially from James
Buckley, barely passable CG, bad script and all the usual clichés.

The last 20 minutes or so were the worst part of the film and let it
down the most. They should of kept the main creature in the shadows and
left as much to the imagination as possible but they didn't they show
it in it's full CG glory. Some of the time they did use physical
effects which were just as bad. The creature even came across as
comical in some scenes which I don't think was the desired effect.

Overall it's worth a watch, it was a good concept but for me it was
just ruined by poor acting, bad CG and a crap ending.
<|_=00=_|>
If there's one thing we've learnt from 'The Descent', it's that tight
spaces make for good claustrophobic horror. That seems to be the idea
behind 'The Pyramid', which sends an archaeological team into the
depths of an ancient pyramid which has just been unearthed in the
Egyptian desert. Aside from the opening scenes, most of the rest of the
movie takes place within the narrow corridors or rooms within the
pyramid, which in itself does generate a veritable sense of dread.

Whether it was the intention of screenwriters Daniel Meersand and Nick
Simon at the start or that of director Gregory Levasseur later on isn't
clear, but 'The Pyramid' follows the recent trend of horror movies in
adopting the found-footage format. Largely, that is. The majority of
the shots originate from British cameraman Fitzie's (James Buckley)
point of view, which also means that the key characters we see on
screen most of the time are father-and-daughter pair Holden (Denis
O'Hare) and Nora (Ashley Hinshaw) and award- chasing filmmaker Sunni
(Christa- Marie Nicola). Only when it seems technically possible to
have a first- person p.o.v. shot does Levasseur switch to more
traditional modes of shot composition and framing, in particular when
all but one of the members of the team is left. 

Truth be told, we've never really been a big fan of found-footage
horror, in part because most filmmakers use technique as an excuse for
poor plotting, thinking that just having their characters run and/or
scream down dimly lit hallways and getting surprised by things that
jump out at them  and the audience  makes for a movie. To some
extent, Levasseur and his writers are guilty of that as well, relying
too conveniently on rote jump scares to deliver the thrills, which any
seasoned horror fan can probably anticipate when and what is coming at
them. 

But thankfully, the Egyptology-themed setting isn't completely wasted;
the last third of the movie is steeped in religious mythology, in
particular the appearance of a part-man part-jackal creature better
known in ancient Egyptian history as an "Anubis" and its role in an
ancient funerary rite known as the "Weighing of the Heart". This isn't
the family-friendly adventure that 'The Mummy' and its sequels ever
was; indeed, coming from producer Alexandre Aja of 'The Hills Have
Eyes', you should certainly be prepared for some pretty gory shocking
scenes, including one that is clearly inspired by an iconic shot from
'Aliens' (you know, the one from the back?). 

Not all the movie is that intriguing though; for a good part where the
group is making its way through the narrow underground tunnels, the
pace drags because none of the characters are particularly interesting
in and of themselves. What effort spent introducing some conflict
between them also falls flat, as Nora's criticism of Fitzie's obsession
to get their ordeal down on camera is over and done with in just one
scene  not least for the fact that she becomes the one to hold on to
his camera and document the proceedings after something unfortunate
befalls him. 

You'll probably do well lowering your expectations if you've decided to
watch 'The Pyramid', which seems content to revel in B-movie tropes
than to be anything truly inspiring by itself. To its credit, it
doesn't entirely squander its titular Egyptian theme, though for that
matter, it also doesn't fully exploit it as well. What longtime Aja
screenwriter Levasseur has managed in his directorial debut is to show
he can mount a perfectly credible but mediocre found-footage horror,
which is only as memorable as the time it takes for another B-grade
horror to come along.
<|_=00=_|>
The Pyramid is yet another addition to the "dangerous exploration"
genre. I found it mildly entertaining, yet not at all special or
particularly interesting.

The story is the usual: explorers on a mission. Their organization, and
the local residents are telling them to go home because "it's too
dangerous," but they go on anyway. Scary stuff starts to happen, and
they proceed onward until... well, you know.

The main actress comes from the Megan Fox school of
open-mouth-pouty-face acting. She is supposed to be a successful
anthropologist, but she comes off as a ditz. I'm not saying this
because she is blonde and attractive... it was the way she delivered
her lines.

The CGI was pretty awful. I won't spoil, but at one point toward the
end it appeared that someone was wearing a prosthetic mask with really
prominent eye holes. Some other things looked quite fake as well.

It was ... okay.
<|_=00=_|>
The thing with "the Pyramid" is that it has great presentation. The
poster looks good, the trailer looks good too. It's enough to fool most
people into watching it, expecting a film with some good scares. I, for
one, went in expecting some claustrophobic terror like "the Descent".

Unfortunately, the Pyramid is not good, not good at all. In fact, it's
just boring. The characters all suffer from being utterly unlikeable,
from the annoying cameraman to the just as annoying blonde girl. From
there the film turns into a boring drag, wherein every trick in the
book is pulled: jump scares, cheap CGI, lots and lots of yelling and
screaming, exposition that makes no sense. You name it.

This movie is awful. Don't watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie despite its bad reviews because I liked the fact
that it is a horror movie in a pyramid and I also quite like movies
that have to do with Egyptian history. So after having watched it, I
have to say that the one and a half hour I spend doing that was worth
it. The pyramid might not be a masterpiece but it is definitely a
horror movie worth watching.

Firstly, I have to say that the settings were well made as well as the
monsters. The actors did a good job too. I can't say that they were
amazing but their acting seemed quite natural and they were well
directed. Another fact I liked about this movie is that it was decently
scary(enough to scare the average watcher) and intense. I quite enjoyed
most killing scenes too. In that aspect I think it was better than most
horror movies I've seen lately . It could have been more intense
though.

Coming to the bad points now, as you can probably can guess already the
plot is not something new or groundbreaking. You won't see something
entirely new here. The only thing that's somewhat "new" is that the
killings happen in a pyramid. In addition, the movie is not evenly good
for its entirety. It starts well, shows promise and is pretty good for
a big part but the last part of the movie ruins that feeling. Some
scenes of the last part of the movie are not that well-though. Add to
that the fact that they probably overdid it a bit with the selection of
the "monster" and you can understand why it has bad critics. They
involved Egyptian mythology a bit too much I guess but I won't spoil
further. 

To sum it up, The pyramid is a horror movie worth watching despite its
flaws. They did a good job for a low budget movie like this and an
average horror movie fan will surely have a nice time watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
A really disappointing movie for both horror enthusiasts as well as
ancient Egypt lovers.

To start with, it's really not scary as a horror movie. With the
typical setting of unearthing an ancient special three sided pyramid
and exploring it. getting trapped and waking up a monster.Very clichéd
as one by one the main characters die either falling prey to booby
traps or to the evil monster of the pyramid. Not really scary as
everything was predictable and even the Anubis monster was a really
good example of poorly made CGI. A very predictable ending where only
one person just makes it out only to be dragged in again. Booby traps?
Spikes, sand tunnels and collapsing floors. 

Secondly, factually inaccurate. Yes, tombs did contains writings from
the book of the dead, no, Anubis was not the child of Osiris. He was
the son of Set. The hearts of the deceased are weighed against the
feather of Truth. and not against the goddess of Maat, Maat was the
ancient Egyptian concept of Order, opposite it was Isfet or Chaos. Maat
was represented by the Sun God Ra. Oh, and Anubis was not evil, his
father Set was. Anubis was the God of Funerals and was most often
depicted as leading the souls of the dead to the hall of judgement.
<|_=00=_|>
In times of turbulence and confusion in Egypt, an American team of
archaeologists is digging a three-side pyramid in the desert. The
engineer Zahir (Amir K) sends his robot to explore the interior while
the archaeologists Nora (Ashley Hinshaw) and her father Holden (Denis
O'Hare); the video producer Sunni (Christa Nicola); and the cameraman
Fitzie (James Buckley) record and analyze the image. However they have
to leave the site due to the political instability but out of blue, the
expensive robot vanishes inside the pyramid. Amir K convinces Corporal
Shadid (Faycal Attougui) to give two hours for them to seek out the
robot. When they are in the interior, the floor collapses and they fall
30 m down. Soon they learn that the place is a maze full of traps and a
creature is hunting them down. Will they succeed to escape?

"The Pyramid" is a disappointing horror movie. The story is silly and
unoriginal and does not hold the attention of the viewer. The
performances are not convincing but acceptable, but the plot fails
since the characters are not well developed and non-likable. The
lighting and camera are very poor. The special effects are reasonable
for a low- budget movie. My vote is four.

Title (Brazil): "A Pirâmide" ("The Pyramid")
<|_=00=_|>
The Pyramid is another in a long line of "found-footage" horror films
that have appeared since the success of Paranormal Activity in 2007,
and even though it avoids a lot of the downfalls of such films and
provides us with an intriguing setting, The Pyramid is only mildly
entertaining, only scary in fits and spurts, and not nearly as great a
movie as its premise promises.

The Pyramid has a pretty intriguing story going for it; As a
father-daughter research team uncovers an ancient Egyptian pyramid,
they are joined by a film crew who plan to document their journey into
the mysterious site. When the crew is trapped in the cursed labyrinth,
they must fight to stay alive and possibly find a way out of "The
Pyramid". Of course there is not much sophistication to the story, but
there is a ton of potential for excellent and unique thrills in Daniel
Meersand and Nick Simon's basic script outline. The Egyptian setting is
all but ideal for a claustrophobic, B horror movie. Unfortunately, tied
down by the restraints of its found-footage style and its amateur
talent, The Pyramid can't completely deliver on its promises.

The acting is possibly the most glaringly bad aspect of the film. The
actors are one step up from community theater dropouts, and their
cardboard characters do them no favors. Ashley Hinshaw's heroine Nora
is relatively likable and nuanced, but literally everyone else in this
film is a cartoonish oaf. Unintentionally funny characters can make for
a "so bad its good" kind of experience, but it neuters the scares
because we don't believe that there are real people in danger. 

The Pyramid is also hampered by the restraints of its found-footage
trappings. Like most found-footage movies, especially ones that were
made that way because the budget wasn't high enough for a traditional
method of filming, the camera becomes a hindrance rather than an asset.
Director Gregory Levasseur isn't able to make use of the claustrophobic
sets in any way beyond what an average person with a smart phone can.
It simply limits the effectiveness of the movie as a whole. The Pyramid
doesn't work as a found-footage film, and only sometimes works as a
traditional horror movie. 

Still, the setting, story, and endearing cheesiness help to overcome
some of the deficiencies in the filmmaking. The Pyramid is a fun B
horror flick for those who enjoy the Egyptian setting, goofy
set-pieces, and mild scares. You have to know what you are getting into
when you see a movie like this, but I feel like The Pyramid could have
been a much more enjoyable picture had there been more effort put into
its production. Personally, I was interested by The Pyramid's story,
and I had enough fun with its action scenes to recommend it to those
who like this kind of B-movie cheese, but for those looking for a
genuinely great film, The Pyramid really doesn't come close.

55/100
