
By about 2009 when 'Fast & Furious' was released, the franchise had
slowly began to veer away from its initial focus of street racing and
instead began to turn its attention to the action genre and
over-the-top big budget sequences. However along with this change of
style, the franchise was actually getting better and better with each
film. Today I saw the most recent instalment in the cinema... talk
about action-packed. 'Fast & Furious 7' is a no-holds, over- the-top
and mindless action film, but this aside, it is an extremely
entertaining and fun film to watch. With an all-star cast and some
brilliant action sequences, 'Fast & Furious 7' is proof that certain
franchises can continually make great movies. The most notable moment
however in the entire film is the emotional and respectful ending
during the send-off of Paul Walker, the film finishing with a montage
of Walker in the previous six films, finishing with just two words,
'For Paul', this is the first time a Fast and Furious film has affected
me emotionally, and it is arguably the best in the franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
The films belonging to The Fast and the Furious saga have been
increasing the ambition of the stunts and action scenes with every new
sequel, while the screenplays have been getting more tangled and
apparatus in order to guarantee the numerous cast to have enough
moments of individual showcasing. Furious 7 isn't the exception, and I
found it very entertaining, while it elevated the level of drama and
motoring stunts beyond any reason or logic... which is exactly what we
expect in a film from this franchise. Besides, the sad death of actor
Paul Walker's brings a gravity to the story which the screenplay could
have never generated by itself. I think that, until now, I could found
the validity in the wordiness about "family", which has been repeated
many times by Vin Diesel in the films of this saga (I counted at least
four instances in Furious 7). I wish that this new emotional weight
hadn't been due to such tragic reasons, but it undoubtedly influenced
my perception of the film. Anyway... what people want to see are the
action scenes, and Furious 7 completely fulfills the expectations in
that regard, with a series of outlandish stunts which are totally
improbable but very entertaining. Screenwriter Chris Morgan found an
appropriate balance between action and story, and director James Wan
made a fluid and dynamic work. Editorial comment: the quantity and
complexity of the stunts displayed in Furious 7 are making some people
talk about the possibility of introducing a special category for stunt
doubles at the Oscars; and I think that's an excellent idea. There's
undoubtedly digital manipulation in those scenes (erasing of cables,
face replacement, general retouch), but there's still an extraordinary
mechanic, pyrotechnic and logistical talent involved in the shooting of
those scenes, something which would deserve a formal recognition by the
Oscars. There are currently two categories dedicated to the technicians
who mix the audio of car crashes... and none to the drivers who risked
their lives? Ridiculous. End of the editorial comment. The veteran
actors of the saga do their usual stuff in Furious 7, as it can be
supposed. As for the additions of the cast, Jason Statham makes a
perfect work as one of the villains, but the great Djimon Hounsou is
completely wasted as the terrorist who wants to steal a magical
application of digital espionage. Kurt Russell brings an appropriate
style and personality to his character. And the female fight scene
between Michelle Rodriguez and Ronda Rousey is inferior to the similar
ones in which Gina Carano was involved in the previous film. I don't
know whether this saga is going to continue without Walker; it probably
will, considering the huge quantities of money these films generate. My
favorite movie from this franchise keeps being the fifth one (Fast
Five), but I can recommend Furious 7 as a very competent action film,
and as a solid tribute/final chapter in case they decide to stop here.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Furious 7 at a SXSW screening. The sudden death of Paul Walker
shocked his fans and the people who were setting hopes for another F&F
movie. Well, James Wan and his crew managed to pull it together using
CGI and stunt doubles. I have to say, it was a bigger stake here than
Furious 6, which felt more bang- bang than a GOOD movie. If you are
looking for little story, more car chases, stupendous action and
violence and hot babes, Furious 7 is your ticket. The scenes shot in
Dubai are particularly spectacular, with lush resorts, exotic cars
being driven off hotel rooftops and crashing into an art gallery, ah!
What wonders F7 takes you to! You may know, James Wan from Insidious
and Saw, and his crazy camera tricks are highlight here. But it comes
with a little compromise, the acting, Diesel feels raw, while Rodriguez
feels stale and bland. Walker is great, as usual (R.I.P) Tyrese Gibson
is the worst, with his "cool guy" attitude and "bad boy" cliché
character. Overall, this one last trip as Torretto calls it, is
refreshing, bang on and full out spectacular. Furious 7 deserves to be
watched.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the best action film that exists out there and definitely the
best in the Furious series. With death defying stunts and terrific
visuals, it is a match made in heaven for petrol-heads. From jumping
cars off an aircraft to jumping between buildings in Abu Dhabi, it puts
shivers down your spine! Rock pulling off his signature move to street
fight between Vin Diesel and Jason Statham and yet one cannot get
enough of the action. This is pure entertainment at its best. As if
this wasn't enough, the tribute to Paul Walker in the end was emotional
and the best thing about this film. He got a send-off that he deserved!
Those last scenes cannot be emphasized enough upon. Overall it is the
best action flick so far this year. 

"Whether I'm a quarter mile away or halfway across the world, the most
important people in the room are mi familia."
<|_=00=_|>
Furious 7: Without a doubt, this is the biggest fast and furious movie
to date. Everything is bigger. The action scenes are bigger, the car
scenes are even faster, and of course, "The Rock" is bigger. Furious 7
was already highly anticipated, and then tragedy struck, Paul Walker
was killed in a car crash when filming. He will always be sorely missed
and no one can ever take his place. Even though some of the dialogue
and action might be a little cheesy, with great action and car
sequences, Paul Walker got the send off he deserved in the series he
dedicated his life to.

What I mean by cheesy dialogue is primarily applied to "The Rock's"
lines in the movie. He still has a supporting role but it is not nearly
as big as his role in the previous two films. To put it simply, his
entire dialogue is a series of one-liners to show how big of a badass
he is if for some reason you can't already tell. It is amusing still,
but it gets slightly irritating after a while. Once he takes out a few
helicopters single handedly, you forget those lines and just laugh and
love the enormous action taking place. The trailer also clearly shows
Jason Stathom who plays Deckard Shaw in this installment as the main
villain, but he really is only sprinkled throughout the plot. He never
really gets the same screen time Luke Evans, who played Owen Shaw, in
the previous installment got. Nevertheless, in the screen time he gets,
he acts like the ultimate badass that he is and we can't ask for
anything more.

The action and car scenes speak for themselves. In some of the tallest
buildings in the world, we see Vin Diesel and Paul Walker practically
fly a car straight through three of them and you can't ask for more
than that. Sure, it might be outlandishly crazy but everyone should
know walking into this movie that it is a hardcore action-car film, not
an art film. The fight scenes are also pretty well done. Seeing Vin
Diesel and Jason Statham going in a slow-mo glorifying fight to the end
shot is incredibly funny and widely entertaining at the same time. 

The acting is what we have come to expect from each cast member. They
all own their roles. They are their characters at this point. Sure,
some may not consider it "real" acting but the actors did their part
for the movie and you can't ask for anything more. Also, as I said
earlier, Paul Walker's send off really was tremendous and many of the
audience members might actually find themselves tearing up towards the
end as we all listen to the song "See You Again," which I think might
be nominated for an Oscar for best original song. 

If you just want pure-thrilling entertainment with some laughs thrown
in here and there, you should definitely see Furious 7. Since this is a
movie where it is a hundred times better on the big screen, I recommend
you see Furious 7 in theaters. 

For more of my reviews, go to my website at reviewsbywest.com
<|_=00=_|>
Dom's family comes under threat from Deckard Shaw, the brother of the
fellow they were up against in episode 6. Also, a mysterious government
fellow pressures them to rescue a hacker who has invented a whizzo bit
of kit which can spy on anyone on the planet.

This series started out as rough, tough, cargasm movies, but it has
gradually morphed via James Bond/Mission Impossible car-based action
movies into, at this point, super-hero movies  Vin Diesel and Jason
Statham both display levels of invulnerability which Superman would be
proud of. If you thought the 25 mile airport runway in episode 6 was
stretching things a bit, wait until you see what happens with the red
car in this one. The action is absolutely preposterous, and highly
entertaining, even if none of it makes any sense at all (the government
seriously has no operatives that can do this kind of thing, so they
have to recruit a bunch of freelance drivers to bale out of a cargo
plane in their cars? Really?).

Underwriting the whole thing is the knowledge of Paul Walker's death
during production, necessitating rewriting and a variety of tricks to
bring his character into scenes not filmed at that point. On the whole,
this has been fairly well done, and there is little in the way of
clunky moments when Walker's absence is obvious, which just leaves the
awareness of his death and how that might impact on the story. Credit
to the cast and crew for allowing the character to exit the series in a
dignified and pleasing way, and for adding a moving coda by way of
tribute which is dramatically fitting, thematically appropriate to the
character and the saga, and full of obvious love for their lost friend
and brother.
<|_=00=_|>
"This time it ain't just about being fast."

James Wan, who is well known for directing horror films (The Conjuring
and Saw), took over the seventh film in this franchise replacing Justin
Lin who had been sitting on the director's chair since the third
installment. What I found most interesting about this franchise is that
it didn't seem like it was going anywhere after its solid debut in 2001
since the first couple of sequels focused on different characters and
story lines. Even when they got the entire cast back together in 2009
for the fourth film I didn't feel like it was anything special. I'd
always mildly enjoyed the films, but it wasn't until Fast Five that I
was really engaged with the series. Justin Lin may have not impressed
me before, but when that film came out he decided to have fun with the
overblown action scenes and audiences embraced it completely. We had
the team reuniting together being chased by tanks and planes and
pulling off nearly mission impossible tasks. My greatest concern for
this film was that Wan wouldn't follow that basic formula that had
elevated the franchise in the first place. But in an early scene in the
film those fears were soon gone when Wan practically gives the audience
a wink by having Brian (Walker) telling his son that "cars don't fly"
when he playfully throws a small toy car through the window. We were
about to find out that that claim wasn't necessarily true because
throughout this film we actually see several cars fly during the
spectacular action scenes. 

By the end of Furious Six the franchise was tied perfectly together by
uniting the events that took place in Tokyo during the third film with
the present. In the fifth and sixth installments Toretto (Vin Diesel),
Brian (Paul Walker), Tej (Ludacirs), and Roman (Tyrese Gibson) had
finally found financial stability and cleaned their names to return
home. The character of Agent Hobbs (Dwayne Johnson) had helped
reinvigorate the franchise and Letty (Michelle Rodriguez) was brought
back from the dead (well actually she never really died, but fans of
the franchise know what I mean). Mia (Jordan Brewster) and Brian were
enjoying their newfound family life, but as we found out in the end of
the sixth film, Owen's brother Deckard (Jason Statham) was set on
avenging him. Their seemingly peaceful life is interrupted as the team
begins to be hunted down by this dangerous British criminal. Loretto is
offered the opportunity to flip the papers on Deckard from being hunted
to becoming the hunters when a secret government official known as Mr.
Nobody (Kurt Russell) offers him a deal. A Somalian mercenary (Djimon
Hounsou) has kidnapped a hacker known as Ramsey (Nathalie Emmanuel) who
has developed a computer program known as God's Eye that basically
allows you to find anyone across the globe in a matter of seconds. If
Toretto's team can rescue Ramsey and retrieve God's Eye he will let
them use it to track down Deckard and catch him off guard. And so the
adventure across the globe begins with flying cars, helicopters and
droids exploding across the mountains of the Middle East, the elegant
buildings in Abu Dhabi, and the city of Los Angeles. 

Gisele and Han were part of the reason why I enjoyed the previous films
so much so I was worried that their absence in this film would hurt the
movie, but the addition of Jason Statham as the main villain of the
film elevated this to a higher level. There are great fight scenes
between him and Dwayne Johnson and then with Vin Diesel that were
incredibly entertaining. These are probably the best action stars of
our generation and when the fighting choreography is filmed correctly
you can't go wrong with these guys. There are also some fantastic
action scenes involving fast car chases across a gorgeous mountain that
ends in a Jurassic Park like cliffhanger. The action scenes are
overblown, but that is what makes them so entertaining once you learn
to accept the absurdity of it all and simply enjoy the ride.
Over-the-top action scenes is what elevated this franchise in the first
place and Furious 7 continues to play with that same premise taking
advantage of Wan's knowledgeable work behind the camera and his use of
different camera angles which makes the film look all the more
entertaining. 

The greatest success of Furious 7 is being able to blend the incredibly
fun action scenes with the dramatic elements involving the chemistry
between the characters. We've grown to love these characters and each
new addition always seems to work. Furious 7 takes some common themes
from films like Mission Impossible or Ocean's Eleven and applies them
really well here. Tyrese Gibson plays a similar character to the one
Matt Damon played in Ocean's where he wants to prove his leadership
qualities to the rest of the crew. There are elements recycled from
other action films, but thanks to the cast it works extremely well in
this franchise. And then you have the emotional aspect of this film
surrounding Paul Walker's untimely death. You can't help but feel
emotionally engaged towards his character knowing that the actor has
recently passed away. There are several scenes of his face where the
CGI seems evident, but the voice work was perfectly executed. The CGI
never distracted me however, and I'm glad they decided to continue with
the production of the film. The last five minutes are emotionally
engaging and without spoiling the film all I can say is that the crew
did him justice with a beautiful tribute. Furious 7 continues to build
on an already engrossing franchise and it might just be my second
favorite after Fast Five. 

http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not gonna lie! I love this franchise. Aside from the third movie, I
enjoy each one of them. You can't ask for much more when it comes to
action movies. This series has always been a box office attraction, but
the real story is Paul Walker's tragic death. I remember being really
saddened when I read about his untimely death. He had come such a long
way as an actor. He was getting better and better, and the sky was the
limit for him. I was so pumped to go see this movie! My expectations
were pretty high. I'm happy to say that it not only met my
expectations, but transcended them as well. If you're looking for a
great story, look elsewhere! This movie isn't about that. It has plenty
of emotion and a decent enough story for this type of thing, but this
puppy is all about action. I thought after the 6th one, they had
nowhere to go after it. What else could they possibly do, how could
they top themselves? Well, they did it! In convincing fashion. This is
like 5 action movies in one. If you think you've seen it all, you
haven't! There are action scenes in this movie that I didn't think were
possible. They are incredibly unbelievable and WAY OTT, but undeniably
exhilarating. I thought some of the situations they got out of in the
5th and 6th movies were ridiculous, this one takes the cake. It rarely
gives you a chance to breathe! Just when you settle down, along comes
another action scene to amaze you. As an adrenaline junkie, I loved
every second of it. I'm not gonna list all of them, but I'll mention a
couple. One involves Brian and a huge truck at the edge of a cliff.
It's completely implausible, but I was on the edge of my seat! Another
involves Dom and his destruction of vehicles. I won't spoil them, but
they are memorable. The acting is solid! Vin won't ever be known as a
great actor, but he has a lot of presence and charisma. He is always
reliable in these movies. Paul Walker is really good as Brian. I was
really happy with the tribute they did for him at the end. It was very
moving and touching. The Rock (Dwayne Johnson) Is a hoot as Hobbs. It
sucks that he didn't have as much screen time, but his crazy antics
were a blast to watch! Great lines as well. Michelle Rodriguez isn't
the Letty we know. She's damaged and vulnerable. I'm so used to seeing
Michelle playing bad-ass roles, so it was cool. Jason Statham is a fun
villain. You know what to expect when it comes from him. Kicking ass
and taking names. Jordana Brewster doesn't have much to do, but she was
good. As a huge Kurt Russell fan, it was a treat to see him again. He
was hilarious and a lot of fun to watch. Ludicrous and Tyrese Gibson do
well in their roles. Special mention to Tony Jaa and Ronda Rousey! Tony
Jaa actually gets a chance to showcase his phenomenal skill set. His
fight scenes with Paul Walker will get your adrenaline going. 

I hate sitting in a theater for over two hours, but it was completely
worth it. You don't have time to get fidgety in your seat. There is so
much going on that you'll be glued to the screen. I'm not sure if they
should do an 8th movie or not. If they make one, I'll be more than
happy to see it! But I think this was the perfect ending to this
franchise. Whether it's the end or not, thank you for some great
entertainment. 

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Furious 7 is badass. This movie is way different than the previous
installments, due to James Wan, who was a fantastic director and had
great camera shots in this. The fight scenes were awesome,the Statham
and Rock fight is one of the best in the whole series. The audience was
cheering and clapping through the whole film. The movie was also
hilarious due to the comedic sides of Tyrese and Ludicrous. It was
interesting to see how they dealt with Paul Walker,the CGI could've
been better but I loved the way they used archive footage of him.Along
with the action, there is a very emotional side to this movie. There
are certain scenes that are very sad and one of them,Paul actually
filmed. Overall,this movie was packed with tons of action,badass
one-liners,and a farewell to an amazing actor and person. Rest in Peace
Paul Walker.
<|_=00=_|>
When Justin Lin announced he would be stepping down as the director for
Furious 7 following Universal's decision to fast track the sequel
before the release of Furious 6, a lot of fans like myself were
wondering who could possibly replace him!? The franchise wouldn't be
what we've come to know without Justin, he has been around since the
Tokyo Drift (which is way too under-rated) and saved the dying
franchise from being released direct to video. 

Fast & Furious is never just about street racing but family & heist.
Before you hate me, watch the first movie and Fast Five again then
compare it yourself. You see the evolution of the characters and from
robbing trucks with DVD players to heisting 100million. 

Now back to Furious 7.. When they announced James Wan will be taking
over the franchise, a lot of us were worried as he was most well-known
for his work in horror genre, particularly SAW & Insidious.
Nevertheless James has proved he is perfectly capable of big budget
action movies, just look at the air drop or the Abu Dhabi sequence!

Spoilers ahead..

The film started off with Deckard Shaw (Jason Statham) talking to the
coma-tonic Owen Shaw (Luke Evans), promising to avenge him. Just pause
and think how he could have survived the fall from the plane!? If
that's the case I think Gisele & Han can too.. I mean they did bring
Letty back right?

With all the hyped built up from the post credit scene of Furious 6, I
was genuinely interested to see how Deckard Shaw hunt down the team and
continue where Tokyo Drift left off. Instead we were introduced another
villain, Mose Jakande, played by Djimon Hounsou (which is unnecessary
and dull), Shaw was pretty much cast aside as a secondary character. We
never get to see the team from the hunted to the hunter as Shaw kept
showing up from time to time. Other than the impressive action
sequence, it didn't really add much to the overall story. Sean Boswell
played by Lucas Black showed up for 1 minute or 2 talking to Dom and
you would at least think he might want to avenge Han right? But no we
don't see him for the rest of the film.. I guess we just have to wait
for the sequel. Shaw brothers might be teaming up, you never know!

Furious 7 was originally intended to be the first of a new trilogy but
plans were scrapped due to Paul Walker's untimely death and instead the
filmmaker decided it was all about making this movie for Paul. A lot of
moviegoers like myself were very emotional by the credit rolled. It
felt like the end of the journey with these characters you come to love
and it was the perfect send off to Walker's character, more importantly
farewell to Paul himself. The crossroad scene is definitely the
highlight of the film and the reason I am giving this an 8 out of 10.

Part of me wishes they end the franchise here but with the highly
impressive box office number, a sequel is nothing but guarantee. . I am
very curious to see where the franchise is heading without the essence
of Paul Walker. It just does not seem right without one of the core
family member.. What do you think?
