
Manglehorn is in essence a small simple story. No CG-I, no huge twists
or plot points but rather a amazingly woven story of a lonely man
attempting to overcome the loss of his old love. Al Pacino plays a role
very different from the norm, hes a sarcastic, sad and sometimes bitter
old man who spends his days either alone at his locksmith or mourning
over a love that "could have been". Without spoiling anything,
Manglehorn our main character slowly learns to love life again with the
help of a friend. David Gorden Green does an incredible job at making
this simple story pop by making many almost surreal like scenes (Most
notably the watermelon scene). There are even scenes that are downright
poetic (Scenes sometimes play out as Manglehorn recites a poem in the
back, this is better than it may sound). As the story progresses it get
quite deep, going into interesting back-stories about Manglehorns
family (Mostly about the father and son relationship) and even at times
very magical elements are hinted at. 

I was lucky enough to see Manglehorn at TIFF this past September. If
you get the chance this is a film that needs to be seen.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. For those of us who grew up with
1970's cinema, it's been painful to watch Al Pacino's career over the
last two decades  with only a couple of exceptions. We have longed for
the actor who became Michael Corleone, and cringed with each outing
that seemed to parody his Oscar winning performance in A Scent of a
Woman (1983). Along comes the latest from director David Gordon Green
and with it a reappearance of that actor so worshipped by John
Travolta's character in Saturday Night Fever.

A.J. Manglehorn is an elderly locksmith who lives each day under his
self-designed cloud of despair. His droopy eyes, droopy shoulders and
droopy social skills are eclipsed only by his love for Fanny the cat,
and his daily letters to Clara  the long lost love of his life. The
only other signs of life in Mr. Manglehorn are displayed when he is
telling a customer that it's time to wash their car, when he is hanging
out with his granddaughter, or when he is exchanging Friday flirtations
with bank teller Dawn (a sparkling Holly Hunter).

Director David Gordon Green is best known for comedies such as
Pineapple Express (2008), The Sitter (2011), and TV's "Eastbound &
Down", and while this one (filmed in Austin, Texas) has some awkward
and offbeat comedic moments, it would have to be categorized as a
drama. Symbolism is everywhere as Manglehorn keeps his emotions
"locked" away from his snooty yuppie son (Chris Messina) and retreats
into his imaginary relationship with Clara, rather than embracing
Dawn's brave come-on.

There are a couple of extraordinary scenes  Pacino and Messina talking
around, rather than about, their relationship and the type of men they
are; and the excruciatingly awkward and heart-breaking first date
between Pacino and Hunter. The forlorn Manglehorn remains behind the
locked door and allows the shadow of his dream girl to cast a pall,
despite having a real life dream girl sitting across the table.

Pacino recaptures his mastery of the close-up. Such emotion from so
little apparent movement is the work of a once great master who proves
he still has it. Some may be put off by the lack of big action, but
these are people living life and trying to make the best of it. There
is a line from the movie, "When you choose this life, there is no one".
It's a line that tells us so much about Manglehorn's daily approach.
Whether he finds the right key matters to us for one reason  Pacino
makes us care.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the chance to see this at the Toronto International Film Festival
in early September and came away disappointed.

The movie is founded on a great premise and I was eager to see where it
went. Playing a brooding, lonely old man obsessed with a past
relationship seems like a good fit for the veteran Pacino. A sole
proprietor key cutter was the perfect choice of profession for such a
character. Giving Pacino full screen time was a good choice, as I can't
recall a scene that didn't feature Pacino. 

However, inconsistency in the Manglehorn character seems to overwhelm a
good acting performance. Manglehorn seems at times senile or rude, and
at other times the clever, likable character with good advice. It
doesn't help that a good explanation for his obsession with a past
relationship is lacking. 

There are some solid random scenes and conversations, including
Manglehorn's discussion with a child or the entertaining Korine telling
stories of little league. These worthwhile scenes are surrounded by
just as many scenes that fall flat and make you lose interest. Too
often scenes are present as filler or make you feel like a better
climax is due. Manglehorn's interactions with his son, played well by
Chris Messina, feel like they belong in a different story arc. 

I believe that Green has the ability to make a great, subtle film if it
all comes together. In Manglehorn, the script Pacino is given and the
characters he is surrounded with take him no where in particular, which
is fine if you are entertained or enlightened throughout the film's
duration. That's not the case here. Though the foundation was there,
the payoff isn't worth the attention paid.
<|_=00=_|>
Manglehorn was warmly received at Austin's SXSW Film Festival. It isn't
Al Pacino's best work. Of course, he is no longer the Pacino of Dog Day
Afternoon, Godfather, Serpico, Scarface, Scent of a Woman and Heat, but
he is still better than most. The script is solid, but not
extraordinary. The film is mostly a one-man show. However, I honestly
believe I would enjoy watching a film about Al Pacino watching paint
dry. Pacino is just a pleasure to watch even now as an aging legend his
intense screen presence remains. He is remarkable to watch when he is
changing a light bulb or feeding a cat. In this film he plays an
elderly locksmith who has been wounded by a long lost love and is
trying to learn how to trust again. His on-again off-again attempt to
build a relationship with Holly Hunter and to reconnect with his
estranged son  played by Chris Messina - is certainly enjoyable.
Underneath his tough interior there seems to be a heart of gold that is
often only shared with beloved cat. He has so often played larger than
life characters, but here he has taken on a much more ordinary and blue
collar identity. The charisma is still there, but so much more of the
character's emotions are internalized. We are left to wonder about all
the events that have led up to who he has become. Recommended for all
fans of good drama and of one of the greatest actors of our time.
<|_=00=_|>
Out of all the roles Al Pacino has gotten in his career, that of A.J.
Manglehorn must be his most unusual one to date. This might put people
off (as I suspect is the case, given the mixed reviews), but you know
what? I think it's one of his best performances. Life is never easy,
especially when there's a big obstacle slowing you down from trying to
get through it. Something that you keep thinking about, can't STOP
thinking about, maybe don't even want to. And this is the case for
Manglehorn. No matter how hopeless it is, how meaningless it is to keep
pondering about it, he keeps writing letters to Clara, the long-lost
love of his life. His contact with people is very limited and the only
true friend he has is his cat. He's working as a locksmith, but doesn't
feel like he contributes much to society. His sorta pal keeps talking
about his new salon, which he doesn't care about. He doesn't see his
son very often either.

He keeps being isolated because he doesn't see much meaning in life as
Clara doesn't respond to his letters.

This was a very fine, down-to-earth little character study about a man
with low self confidence and tough luck. And it was beautiful. The
conversations flowed well and felt natural, the cinematography made
great use of imagery to illustrate feelings and most of all did Al
Pacino blow me away completely. It was to the point that he didn't even
play a character, he was... anyone. Anyone you could happen to know.
There are plenty of people out there like Manglehorn and this actor
gave such a figure not only flesh and bones, but also intestines.

You'd have to be a fool to skip out on such a simple, yet special and
poignant film.
<|_=00=_|>
Film critic Mike D'Angelo mentions that Manglehorn is perhaps David
Gordon Green's least distinctive film, and from the moment I read that,
I had to agree with it. Manglehorn lacks the elements of grittiness and
naturalism that Green's previous features housed, most likely because
this particular effort wasn't written by him. Most of Green's
trademarks - standout cinematography by Tim Orr, elements of
impressionism, and exploration of a societal underbelly - are either
absent or significantly muted. Manglehorn takes on a more episodic
structure than the distinctly natural personality Green often conveys,
and between a wide variety of intimate short films, a debut film like
George Washington, deviations like The Sitter and Your Highness, and
recent projects like Joe and this one, Green has proved he can defy
everything from conventions to expectations.

Our titular subject is played by Al Pacino, a veteran actor who, in
just his most recent performances in this film and Danny Collins, has
given way to a tender, more contemplative side to his decades of
character acting. He's A.J. Manglehorn here, a professional key-maker
who goes about his day locksmithing everything from cars to storefront
doors. One look at Manglehorn from an uninformed outsider and they see
a man who confidently goes about his day, his job, and his doings, not
thinking twice about anything and ostensibly trying to get his job done
as efficiently as possible. Yet, Manglehorn is hurting immensely, as we
can tell from sporadic voiceovers throughout the film.

Manglehorn fondly recalls the woman he loved and lost; his and her
circumstances are left mostly unclear. He speaks so fondly of her that
we get the feeling that when she left, everything around him crumbled.
He built his life, his personality, his mood, and his feelings around a
woman that he effectively made himself miserable to make sure she was
happy. Now that she's gone, all Manglehorn can do is proceed forward on
autopilot, incessantly caring for his cat and trying not to be fazed by
every day activities. His son Jacob (Chris Messina) and him have a
frigid relationship, his old friend Gary (Harmony Korine in a role that
fits him like a glove) keeps popping up at the most inconvenient times
to say the most insensitive thing, and the female bank teller (Holly
Hunter), who flirts with him on a consistent basis, doesn't even bring
him to a smile.

I identify so much with Manglehorn it's almost frightening; the days
where you seem to be on autopilot, the perfunctory interactions that
feel like monumental events in your own mind, and the persistent
feeling of emptiness and hunger for someone you cannot have are all
things that have burdened me this year. The strongest emotional empathy
one can have with Manglehorn will come if one has specifically tried to
cope with loneliness, the deprivation of someone that makes them happy,
and the inability to solely live with one's self.

However, as a film, Manglehorn really shows what Pacino is capable of
in his current state. At seventy-five, Pacino wears his
straight-forward mug and his slicked back, gray hair with a sense of
confidence, expressing contemplation and the weariness of life
experience in every facial expression. This is a seasoned actor at work
here and, much like in Danny Collins, Pacino's character is likable
here because we immediately grasp the sense of what his character
wants.

Writer Paul Logan captures Manglehorn's story in an episodic fashion,
one that gives each character his or her respective dues but ultimately
circumvents to show how Manglehorn himself feels with every reaction.
He's a vulnerable character, one that can have an unpredictable
reaction to any situation and somebody who, after meeting the woman he
truly loved, goes through each and every day with a lot of pain. On
this basis alone, he's a character fit for a movie.

David Gordon Green's last film, Joe, was another big winner in my book,
capturing the humid south to a tee and showing a fragile but
unmistakable bond between a workaholic lumberjack and a young teenager.
Manglehorn, however, marches to the beat of a different drum. Shot with
the respectable sensitivity of Green is known for, yet muting his and
cinematographer Tim Orr's characteristics throughout, Manglehorn is a
film stripped of gimmicks and cheap ploys that helps get right to the
character here - a troubled and emotionally hurt man who is trying to
get through every day with his sanity still intact. Again, I can relate
immensely.

Starring: Al Pacino, Holly Hunter, Harmony Korine, and Chris Messina.
Directed by: David Gordon Green.
<|_=00=_|>
Eccentric Indie Director Green along with two Superb Actors, Al Pacino
and Holly Hunter, deliver an almost Lost Art, the Character Study. Left
to Low-Budget experimenters and Performers looking for an outlet Out of
the Mainstream, this type of Film is becoming "Film Festival Fodder"
and that is where the Genre finds the most Sympathetic Audience.

Not Multiplex favorites and Mainstream Appeal is Lacking, it is this
type that Rely on Reality and have been called "Slice of Life". The
Film is filled with Offbeat Imagery and Dialog that seems Flat at First
but Resonates nonetheless. Witness Manglehorn's Story about a Nun and
some Children on a boat to explain His Atheism.

Holly Hunter is simply Stellar in what amounts to a Supporting Role and
Her Emotion is Heartbreaking and very Real. Two other People in
Manglehorn's Life are included as Representative of why Pacino says in
a half-hearted Throwaway Throwback Touchtone..."The World is Yours"
(meaning I want nothing to do with it)...is His Son and a former Kid He
coached in Little League. 

Both are Obnoxious and Manglehorn finds Them Barely Tolerable and
Symbolic of People in General. That may be why when Holly Hunter says
on Their First Date..."I'm a people person...I love life", Pacino Snaps
and regresses to a Senior Moment of Disconnect.

Overall, a Film for Refined Taste and Fans of Reality based Cinema with
an Artistic Flare. Pacino and Hunter give Noteworthy Performances and
the Movie is Rich with flavor.
<|_=00=_|>
A character piece about the life of one grumpy old, senile man. His
issues are laid-out in grandiose & overly sentimental melodramatics. We
as an audience are slowly dragged from sad set piece to sad set piece
where the conclusions are obvious if only the film would spare us the
"drama" and arrive at them already.

Manglehorn is an Indie that knows its an Indie and is closer to "Prince
Avalanche" than any of the Directors other works. Al Pacino kills it
here but instead of focusing on the solid dramatic acting, Green
decided to over-direct this right into "trying to hard to be
pretentious" territory. 

Manglehorn is trying to re-connect with a long lost love while slowly
driving away the things he does have in his life. He's struggling to be
happy. Where in that the Director feels the need to have "LSD
flashback" type sequences is lost on me. 

It's not original nor refreshing to slowly plod an audience around in
drab and everyday circumstances, throw some folk music or a harp in the
background and call it "subdued" and "special". I don't need Jurassic
Park Dinosaurs or anything but I don't need to see him feed his cat 37
times to realize he loves it. I don't need to see him get his mail 32
times before you get to the point of why. I just need Pacino, with
something to chew on. I just need his character to fight these demons
already. I just need his struggles, his journey and his resolution. 

Instead you meandered for 90% of the film and slapped it together at
the end with some attempt at an thoughtful ending that landed with
about as much intrigue as a happy meal toy. What a wasted Pacino
performance. 3/10
<|_=00=_|>
"You look great. Like a racehorse." A. J. Manglehorn (Al Pacino) 

The above quote is a mixed compliment given to a lovely lady, Dawn
(Holly Hunter), on a disastrous date. Manglehorn, a aging locksmith,
can't seem to connect with his son, his ex love, really everyone but
his cat, who has ingested one of his keys. Manglehorn as film is a
drama about the challenges of an old man who just hasn't gotten it
right.

The years he has mourned over the loss of his great love, Clara,
because he foolishly let her go, seem countless. Each day he writes a
letter to her, each day one returns unopened. His life has been reduced
to a mess of regrets, a prison if you will from which he does not have
the key. Opening others' locked doors is magic, not so with his own
life.

Although Manglehorn is the solitary center of the film, those around
him are prey to his bitter loneliness. Most lamentable is the way he
dismisses the lovely bank clerk, Dawn, with rambling recollections of
his lost lovenot cool on the first date and not Seinfeldian funny.
Just pathetic.

The performances make this small film worth seeing; it's as if the
actors rose to Pacino's occasion, knowing the only way to emerge from
this film is through good acting with one of film's greatest actors.

Director Joe Gordon Green has a flawless eye for the little details
that tell much. In the case of the film's symbols such as the boat and
the beehive, maybe too heavy. Yet as a literature lover, I appreciate
the many obvious metaphors as a satisfactory attempt by first-time
screenwriter Paul Logan to give gravity to an oft-told tale of an
aging, lonely man.

For the audience, the film is a complex reminder of the need to
approach old age with a light heart and an open one.
<|_=00=_|>
Review: What an awful movie! It's really boring from the beginning to
the end and I found Al Pacino's character quite depressing. I didn't
really get the point of the storyline because it didn't go anywhere and
the ending didn't make any sense to me. Anyway, Al Pacino plays
Manglehorn whose a mobile locksmith with a cat as his only companion.
He constantly writes letters to the love of his life, who left him
years ago and he has a rocky relationship with his son who turns to him
for money after he comes under investigation for tampering with
investments. Manglehorn gets a hefty bill for an operation that was
performed on his cat who ate one of his keys, so he's unable to help
his son which doesn't help there distant relationship. The only joy in
Manglehorn life is a woman at the bank called Dawn (Holly Hunter), who
he eventually plucks up the courage to ask her out. She soon falls for
his dry humour but he still has his ex on his mind and it puts a strain
on there relationship. All of the letters that he sent to his ex are
returned to his address and he eventually gets fed up with trying to
rekindle a relationship with her. After burning all of the letters, he
tries to get back with Dawn but she is really upset with the way that
he treated her. That's about it! No major twists or anything exciting!
There are some unexplained scenes like the bees in the mailbox, the
random car crash and the miming character, so the sketchy script really
didn't help matters. Pacino's average acting seemed very one toned and
his character was more of an miserable old git than a interesting,
happy go lucky fellow. I basically couldn't stand the movie and I got
fed up with watching Manglehorn going through life without a hope of
happiness or joy. My hopes of Pacino getting back to top form are
really running thin and he seems to be picking awful roles that are not
doing his career any good. Boring and quite depressing!

Round-Up: What has happened to Pacino's career? Whenever I used to ask
people who they favourite actors were, they would always say Pacino and
DeNiro but they both haven't made a decent film for ages. At 75 years
old, Alfredo James Pacino has had a roller-coaster career but he has
always been highly respected in Hollywood and movie goers around the
world. After the appalling FrapaCino rap in Jack & Jill with Adam
Sandler, his career has gone completely downhill but he has some
impressive movies coming up, which include the Irishman starring Robert
DeNiro and directed by Martin Scorsese, Marco Polo with the Rock,
Beyond Deceit with Anthony Hopkins and the Trap with Robert Pattinson,
James Franco and Benicio Del Toro. Hopefully, these movies will bring
him back into the spotlight and earn him the respect that he has been
missing for some time. Anyway, this movie was directed by David Gordon
Green who also brought you movies like All the Real Girls, Underflow,
Snow Angels, Pineapple Express, Your Highness, the Sitter, Prince
Avalanche and Joe starring Nicolas Cage. For someone that has covered a
wide range of genres, he really did make a mess of this movie and he
didn't take advantage of the great cast. With 6 movies in the pipeline
including the Innocent Man with George Clooney and Stronger with Jake
Gyllenhaal, he should put this terrible movie behind him and put it
down as a bad day at the office.

Budget: $4million Worldwide Gross: $132,000 (Terrible)

I recommend this movie to people who are into their dramatic movies
starring Al Pacino, Holly Hunter and Chris Messina. 2/10
