
If you take the slick look of Drive and the satirical wit of Network,
you get Nightcrawler. This film is a genius first film for director Dan
Gilroy, it is darkly comedic, surprisingly disturbing and is
brilliantly acted. The film tells the story of Lou Bloom, a freelance
videographer who covers the crime world in LA for a local news station
and ruthless editor played by Rene Russo. It isn't before long until
Bloom's demented job overtakes his life, making him colder and colder
the deeper he goes. The film plays like a twisted bloody version of
Network and has the satirical wit to back it up. Jake Gyllenhaal is
utterly fantastic in this film. Lou Bloom is a role that he is
completely submerged in and it oozes through every frame as our dislike
for Bloom intensifies throughout the film. But what this film does best
is not make us particularly like Bloom but it makes us wonder what he
is willing to do next. And trust me, his actions get as sick and as
shocking as they come. Bloom is a depraved individual and Jake
Gyllenhaal deserves a hell of a lot acknowledgment for this role
because he pulls off the tricky task of making the audience care about
a character that is truly unlikeable and does so with not one false
note. It is truly mesmerizing to see. The supporting cast including
Rene Russo and Bill Paxton are absolutely great in this film and
deliver career bests here. The cinematography also is top notch here,
blending the awesome pallets of Drive with a bitter cold makes for an
engaging view and makes it hard for you to peel your eyes from the
screen. Writer/Director Dan Gilroy is someone to watch, especially
coming out of the gates with a film filled with sheer and raw velocity
like this one. It is not only an impressive first film but a brilliant
film all around. I highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was both fun and terrifying. Jake Gyllenhaal's performance
as Lou Bloom will certainly frighten you. He is brilliant when paired
with the amazing monologue style rants written for him.

Lou Bloom is a driven man reminiscent of a sociopath who finds he has a
talent as "nightcrawling" in that he takes videos of true crimes as
they are happening to be broadcast on the news. His motivation and
seeming lack of empathy allow him to break through and take the
controversial images, and sell them with a strong aptitude for
negotiation.

As a character, he grows more and more "motivated" and seems to learn
his business in such a way to bring him amazing success, but to the
determinant, perhaps, of his assistant and the victims of these crimes.

The writer/ director of this movie (making his directorial debut)
certainly understands fear and comedy. The simplest scene was made into
a laugh by the angles and cuts.

It's funny, and enjoyable, but still terrifying enough to feel like a
real horror thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
"Nightcrawler" is the kind of film that will catch audiences by
surprise with its painstaking thoughtfulness, and features the kind of
lead character that will be discussed in film circles who don't detest
American cinema and actually give it the benefit of the doubt. The film
plunges us into the dark, seedy world of a nightcrawler, somebody who,
often working freelance with his or her own equipment and schedule,
patrols the streets of crowded cities with multiple police scanners
searching for recently-committed crimes in the neighborhood, like rape,
shootings, murders, car accidents, and so forth. The object of a
nightcrawler is to get candid and intimate shots of the ugliness that
plagues these scenarios as quickly and as neatly as possible and sell
them to news stations or eyewitness programs to turn quick profit. Job
requirements include possible insomniac, lack of emotional connection
or any immediate empathy to tragedy or horror, exceptional
navigational/driving skills, and a load of free time.

Jake Gyllenhaal plays Lou Bloom, a man at rock-bottom living in Los
Angeles, selling scrap metal to get money before eventually turning to
the nightcrawling business. He teams up with Rick (Riz Ahmed), a young
man desperate to make money to keep a roof over his head, who helps
navigate Lou's routes as a nightcrawler and learns of numerous police
codes to help Lou decipher the police scanner jargon. Together, the two
make for an amateur nightcrawling team, turning profit by selling the
footage  expertly shot, analyzed, and even occasionally manipulated by
Lou  to Nina (Rene Russo), the station manager of a severely failing
news station that is in dire need to regain viewership.

Ultimately, "Nightcrawler" juggles two tricky but immersing features
with its material, simultaneously giving us a look into a grimy and
often dirty gig as somebody who is essentially a voyeur into the most
vulnerable time of the people he meets and posing frightening
commentary on contemporary news. The nightcrawler is not looking to
help or to provide encouragement; he's there to get his shots and move
on, hoping to turn as large of a profit as he can. We see Los Angeles
in the light of what could be classifiable as a contemporary film noir,
in dark, sometimes shadowy-photography and dingy environments that
reveal an ugliness to a city that is normally captured as very
beautiful and ideal in terms of climate. Director Dan Gilroy and
cinematographer Robert Elswit (a frequent collaborator of Paul Thomas
Anderson) do everything in their power to subvert our ideas of Los
Angeles and focus on transitory locations that show the ugliest of
human events in such a way that is beautiful and captivating thanks to
crystal-clear photography.

The other feature "Nightcrawler" toys with is the contemporary
exploration of journalistic ethics and how, with local cable news
competing with so many twenty-four hour news stations, who, in turn,
are also battling more rapidly-updated social media websites, the
manipulation of news is ever-present on Television. News programs, like
sitcoms, reality shows, and sports events, are a game of numbers and
those numbers are ratings  something that "Nightcrawler" makes
depressingly clear to us. A crucial scene to this message comes into
play when Lou has shot and sold the defining tape of his career and has
worked to manipulate it for personal gain. He watches as Nina plays the
tape on the air, directing the news anchors in such a specific way in
terms of language and mannerisms that we see the fear-mongering happen
right before our eyes.

On top of all the social commentary, we see amazingly realistic crime
scenes and car accidents to boot. Perhaps it's the lack of intimacy
many directors lend to these situations, often showing a car accident,
and characters limping and trudging along with little bloodshed, but
"Nightcrawler" details these scenes with an incredible eye for
attention and realism. Gilroy makes us the voyeur and gives the window
into these car accidents that we glance over to see but not entirely
anticipate or really want to see. The attention to detail in these
seems is simply exquisite and uncommonly believable.

"Nightcrawler," in addition, features a wonderful performance by
Gyllenhaal who, like his co-star Paul Dano in last year's "Prisoners,"
plays detached and empty with such conviction, and channels something
of an inner-Philip Seymour Hoffman in "Owning Mahowny," showing his
character's complete fulfillment when obsessing over his job and his
work. Even Riz Ahmed shouldn't be overlooked here, playing the
overworked and under-appreciated assistant to Gyllenhaal's Lou in a
role that could've been an empty, and even distracting, side role. The
entire project is rich in commentary, performances, and environmental
beauty that it could easily be one of the most complete films of the
year.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the few films that has held me in my seat from beginning
to very end even when half way through I desperately needed to visit
the bathroom . The storyline, script, filming and acting combine into
the perfect storm of a brilliant film. Jake Gyllenhaal plays a
character, on what I can only describe as at the higher end of the
autistic spectrum and deserves an Oscar nomination for this role. His
character is perfectly matched by Rene Russo playing the role of her
career as the success seeking ageing news editor. And a shout too for
Riz Ahmed as Rick, Gyllenhaal's assistant. What a contrast to "The
Judge" which I saw last week, "Nightcrawler" is superior on every
level, go see !
<|_=00=_|>
From Welles to De Niro to Hanks to Bale, Hollywood has a history of
actors going through extreme body transformations. While Gyllenhaal's
intense weight loss will easily fit this trend, to only focus on that
part of his commitment to Nightcrawler would be overlooking how
impressively gone he is as Louis Bloom, the focus of this intense
character study about an overlooked and disturbed individual. It's not
a particularly "pleasant" film, and the pacing is far from quick, but
the tension between Louis and his world progresses so beautifully as to
pin you right to your seat. Nightcrawler is an effectively scary,
uncomfortably funny, and stylishly gritty tour de force. The premise,
plot and protagonist are truly unique: a sociopath becomes a freelance
news-cameraman, stopping at nothing to succeed. Though his arc seems
implausible, Gilroy crafts it smoothly, and Gyllenhaal's disturbed
perfection make it hard NOT to believe. His unsettling bug-eyed
expression and breathtakingly inappropriate smile are magnetic. Much
like Scorsese's Rupert Pupkin, Bloom seems to believe he is the star of
his own story: delusional, bull-headed, and respectably determined.
Luckily, there is more here than just Gyllenhaal; powerful set-pieces
resound, and the beautifully cool ambient guitar score is among the
best of the year, complimenting Gyllenahaal's uneasy intensity. Even
the camera consistently reminds us where Bloom stands in the deeply LA
locale. At the heart, it's smartly calling out our propensity for
praising characters for their desires, reminding us that compassionless
ambition is extremely dangerous. For our fame-starved culture,
Nightcrawler is a good message within a great movie with an even
greater lead performance. A true don't-miss!
<|_=00=_|>
Nightcrawler from the very beginning is not a traditional Hollywood
film. It certainly does not follow the narrative of one and even though
it has the three-act structure we are all familiar with, it spins them
around. This is particularly evident in the third act, incredibly
suspenseful with a brilliant, almost anti-climax. Suspense is the main
key to this film's success, it build and builds to the point where the
last twenty minutes of the film are completely unpredictable. Dan
Gilroy in his directorial debut here has shown a real understanding of
how to keep an audience engaged and following a character who isn't an
easy man to spend a great deal of time with. Gilroy's screenplay is
fast paced and one of the finest this year. The script focuses the
audience on the characters, Louis Bloom particularly yet the supporting
characters are just as impressive by Bill Paxton and Rene Russo alike.
It doesn't follow the rules of a typical script, we are introduced
instantly to a criminal and this man is supposed to be our protagonist.
Yet what becomes clear is that there is not a protagonist in
Nightcrawler, Jake Gyllenhaal's Louis Bloom is the antagonist. He can
be described as nothing less than a psychopath and his portrayal by
Gyllenhaal is one of his greatest performances. He is very gaunt here,
losing a lot of weight for the role, however that is not the main
reason for his impressive performance. Gyllenhaal is an actor who
continues to impress me; his work in Enemy from earlier this year was
just as brilliant. He has chosen excellent roles in films such as
Zodiac, Prisoners and End of Watch. The cinematography is also
fantastic, night-time LA has not looked this good since 2011's Drive.
All these elements come together to make a captivating piece of
filmmaking, a film I expect will be discussed more as time goes on.
<|_=00=_|>
You leave the movie theatre with a slightly sick feeling of guilt after
watching Nightcrawler. Guilt that you actually enjoyed this rather
original movie-making set in an ethical and moral vacuum. In that sense
the movie is entirely ironic. You shouldn't be enjoying this stuff.

It's an exposition of entirely greed-induced (financial and ego driven)
naked ambition that rivals Wolf of Wall Street for it's blithe abandon
of normal ethical practice.

Gyllenhaal, as Louis Bloom, almost cadaverous after his dramatic weight
loss for the part, is as unsympathetic a movie character as you've seen
in a very long time. His back story, which is precisely zilch, renders
him a character in search of a meaning. A loner, a drifter, a thief,
unemployed (unemployable is the truth) and entirely without remorse -
emotion for that matter - stumbles upon a freelance career as an, at
first hapless then really rather good, ambulance chasing 'scene of the
crime' news cameraman.

Starting with motorway crashes and graduating to suburban crime scenes
(where the threat of middle America being intruded upon by 'Hispanics'
and other Liberal American ethnic minorities) he captures more and more
challenging newsreel material that feeds the sensation-lust of an LA
loser News Station's News Editor, Nina Romina, played deliciously by
Rene Russo.

Romina's sponsorship of, and belief in, the expert blagging of Bloom
feeds his desire for greater success and indeed for Romina herself. In
a toe curling 'date' at a camp Mexican restaurant Bloom lays it on the
line with Romina in a scene of toe-curling embarrassment. It's as if
Gyllenhaal is playing for laughs, but he's deadly serious.

Throughout, Gyllenhaal commands the screen. The Nightime lighting
constantly picking out his skeletal, eye bulging look that makes him
look like the devil incarnate. This truly is an evil character and
Gyllenhaal's trademark smirk only adds to the perverse sense of evil
pleasure he is gaining as his success mushrooms.

A recurring theme in the movie is his watering of a pot plant in his
flat. It's as if it's the only living thing he cares two bucks about.
Certainly his hapless sidekick/assistant Rick, played by Riz Ahmed, has
next to no chance in this little hothouse world of emotion-free
ambition.

Gyllenhaal's faux management style 'development' of Rick is at times
darkly amusing but usually just plain vacuous and ironic given that he
draws from real world self help and management lingo that's bad enough
in the corporate world, but downright bizarre in this micro universe.

The car chases are gripping edge of seat affairs, the plot, although it
has holes in the final reel (quite big ones I felt) is nevertheless
highly original and unfolds at a steady pace.

The conclusion was, to my mind at least, a little disappointing, but
aside from this a good, dark, star vehicle for Jake and possibly a step
towards another best actor nomination.
<|_=00=_|>
Whereas Gone Girl explored the wild misconceptions and dangerous
influence of the media, Nightcrawler explores another even more
corrupted facet of the entity's nature: shamelessly capitalizing on the
popularity of crime televisionviolence, murder, blood, gunshots. The
program's ratings continue heightening along with the network's desire
for even more thrilling footage. Nightcrawler follows Louis Bloom (Jake
Gyllenhaal) as he climbs up the ladder of success and builds a career
through rash ambition. Lacking a formal education and adequate work
experience, he's truly a victim of the unfair modern job
market/unemployment. So, he says "screw it" and takes matters into his
own hands, acting with sheer desperation and eagerness to reach that
level of power and affluence America so often glorifies. 

After personally witnessing a car accident on the freeway as snooping
reporters close in, the scene lights a fire inside Louis and inspires
him to give the job a try. Soon afterwards, he purchases a camcorder
and a radio scanner, persistently discovering new crime scenes to
capture on tape as intimately as he possibly can. Thus, his extensive
coverage grabs the attention of a morning news channel, and a special
relationship forms therein: a consistent supply of new
gruesome/entertaining crime footage for an increasing sum of money. As
we see the frightening lengths Louis is willing to strive towards in
order to prove himself as a proficient workingman and elevate his value
above and beyond, this grave thriller intermittently surprises us with
effectively mocking twisted humor, but the incredibly deranged human
psychology on display keeps us startled and tense throughout
regardless. 

Gyllenhaal arguably gives the absolute best performance of his career
in a role that substantially differentiates from his earlier work. His
creepy, relaxed composure hides the true inner scariness and ferocity.
Publicly, Louis is a professional, polite, and upstanding citizen who's
just looking to work hard. Privately, he violently yells in front of a
mirror until he shatters it, as well as blackmails a TV news director
to further his career. Rene Russo also impresses as the morning news
directoralmost as daring in her lust for more provocative violent
imagerywho's beguiled by this eccentric and only (mistakenly) fuels
Louis' psychotic drive. In addition, Riz Ahmed's Rick serves as Louis'
gullible, clueless "employee" who just wants to escape the dispiriting
state of homelessness and finally earn a living, completely unaware of
the perilous and unethical situations he'll be cast in along his
employer's selfishly ruthless path.

This isn't the kind of film whose quality solely relies on a central
performance because the narrative is just as cruelly gripping.
Unfortunately, the film industry is stocked with so many safe
crowdpleasers and compromising thrillers that it's wholly refreshing to
see these uncompromisingly grim, chilling psychological character
studies occasionally pop up. The film becomes more morally repulsive
and disturbing as it proceeds while the satire on the American Dream
and merciless ambition becomes that much more brutal. Nightcrawler is
deeply unsettling as well as it is honest in its portrayalLos Angeles
is actually the perfect setting, beautifully shot in its alluring and
deceptive nighttime scenery. After all, it is probably the #1
destination for the unrelentingly audacious and reckless individuals of
the nation in search of a prosperous career.
<|_=00=_|>
Nightcrawler seems like a satire to modern television news about how
they choose their leads or often seek for more ratings by entertaining
their viewers rather than aim straightly to the facts. But there is a
much interesting story beneath here and that is the main character,
Louis Bloom. The guy that easily manipulates people with his sinister
tricks of persuasion. Everything else may just be the natural world of
crime and accidents, but in the eyes of this character, the experience
is made far stranger and oddly fascinating. This provides a
compellingly menacing and provoking piece of commentary which results
to such engrossing film.

What the plot mostly does is to fully absorb the viewers into the
character of Bloom by studying his sociopathic behavior and the words
coming out from his mouth. He is a charming young man with a dark
intention hidden behind his grins. He pushes the limits of the law and
his own safety, only to accomplish on what he must do in the job, even
if it risks many people's lives. The actions of this antihero is ought
to feel terrifying on how it affects to both the business he's working
on and the society he is watching. The media's side however is more of
a picture of cynicism on how they broadcast the scariest stories of the
city, giving the people fear so they could earn more viewers out of the
concern. It just breaks down on how the evil of their success is
disguised as their own ethics.

The filmmaking perfectly captures their night's work. You couldn't
clearly see the scenario they shoot unless you watch them on a video
footage. The violence and peril they witness are shown without any hint
of sympathy, since they only use them for the news show. The horror of
these gritty scenes once again belongs to the nightcrawler. Jake
Gyllenhaal is one of the biggest highlights here. His character
obviously has the personality of a psychotic villain; he is mostly
bluffing, and by the dashing enthusiasm he shows to the people around
him, you probably may not know when his inner total madness will burst
out from his frightening eyeballs, and that provides more tension than
you expect. This is one of the Gyllenhaal performances that will be
remembered for his career.

Out of common sense, this story may lead its main character to a moral
about how much he is taking this job too far, probably destroying his
humanity. But no, this guy is relentless, almost inhumane, and his
style in fact helps his career grow bigger, which turns out we are
actually rooting for a villain. And that probably pictures to some
oppressive ambitious beings out there behind some system. This is where
things go in the end, bringing an outcome to a social satire. You can
spot a lot of relevance even when some of the situations get a little
out of hand. Nightcrawler is something else than a sentiment, what we
must focus here is Lou Bloom: a new, possibly iconic, movie vigilante,
except the only skin he is purposely saving is himself and his career.
<|_=00=_|>
Nightcrawler is slang. I will not ruin or spoil anything in this
review. Jake Gylenhall has never been better. His character must have
been incredibly hard to play, and you will see why. There is a reason
this Thriller & Drama opened on Halloween. His character is ambitious
to a fault & highly intelligent. He interacts most often with Rene
Russo & a man he calls his intern. If you thought Julius Caesar was
ambitious or Alexander the Great, this character must have the same
motivation to succeed minus the goal of conquering the world. Needless
to say he is driven. Russo is also ambitious, so they make a good team.
The difference is how far each is willing to cross the lines of
morality, legality & humanity. 

The movie is original in every sense. There has never been a movie
similar in the character or the situation, and the movie makes an open
commentary about an important but not political aspect of American
society. To say it was gripping would be literal. I looked down at one
point, and I was clutching my outer thigh. The movie is tense &
intense. Every move seems known to Gylenhall but not to anyone else. If
you like entrepreneurs, this movie will appeal to that in one aspect.
Overall, it is definitely a Thriller full of danger & illegality. It is
Gylenhall versus the world, if he were a diplomat & the world
represented achieving his goals. That's his character around others.
When left unwatched, even for a moment, he devolves into a character
that does whatever it takes. 

See this movie for the originality. See it if you enjoy thrillers. See
it because he gives the best acting performance of his life in a
character with many sides. See it for fun. See it for a cool fast car.
Or, the fact it is tracking above 8 stars out of 10 which is about as
good as it gets on IMDb, considering that is the average of thousands &
thousands of ratings by people as diverse as patrons watching on a
Washington, D.C theater. From that number you can safely predict it's
very likely you will find it as highly entertaining as the
international average (plus or minus 1 star). In my estimation, I
reserve a 9/10 rating for the best of the best. 10/10 stars are for the
greatest movies. This is easily the best of the best. 

One friendly tip: If you are on heart, or anxiety medication, take it
as scheduled or if it's as needed, make sure it's within reach. 

Knox D. Alford, III
