
What do you expect? You know what kind of movie this will be.

It is a bit dumb and full of clich√©s. The story is paint by numbers and
you can predict the ending after the 30 minutes. The characters are as
stereotyped as possible (ranging from no non-sense cop to diabolical,
good looking evil mastermind and very attractive female side-kick).

It is a bad movie though? No. I've actually enjoyed it. It is the kind
of movie to which you go, have a laugh laugh, go home and forget all
about it. It won't enter any top movie list and it won't teach you
anything useful. But it will make you laugh and that's a good thing.

I guess there were better movies out there for which to pay $10 to see,
but I don't regret the time spent. It was like eating a bar of
chocolate, good and then you move on with your life.
<|_=00=_|>
After the success of Ride Along comes along this lukewarm retread with
less plot and less funny lines.

Ice Cube and Kevin Hart are still the prospective brothers in law to be
but Hart is a probationary police officer. An interesting beginning as
Hart ends up being responsible for Cube's partner, Tyrese Gibson
getting shot.

After that the plot moves to Miami where the two head off to find a
hacker, Ken Jeong who is there to trade comedy with Hart while Cube can
get on with the main plot of taking down a crime lord, Benjamin Bratt.

There are a few amusing scenes, the pair trade insults and banter with
each other as Hart desperately tries to impress Cube. There is some
decent action in the last part of the movie but it just feels like a
lazily inspired sequel that brings nothing new to the table.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a Kevin Hart fan. Some comedians just have the innate ability to
make you laugh, and I feel like he has that indescribable ability. My
expectations were for low, like for every comedy sequel and I wanted to
like this movie. But...

The audience expectations for a comedy sequel are so low it should be
relatively straightforward for the screenwriter and director to satisfy
us. The situation is perfectly setup for a studio / audience win win.
Give us recycled jokes in a new setting, we laugh through a forgettable
movie and studio makes bank. Unfortunately, in my opinion, Ride Along 2
falls prey to the usual sequel pitfalls and doesn't even give Kevin
Hart room to maneuver.

The best parallel to a recent movie I can think of is The Hangover Part
II. Part I was so funny, everyone was going to give Part II a watch,
hoping it would top the first installment. Instead you got the sequel
trap - recycled jokes (still can be funny), but the bigger budget
distracted the director.

That encapsulates Ride Along 2. Unfortunately, the bigger budget means
less time for Kevin Hart to be funny and more action scenes, which no
one really cares about. Watching the movie, I felt like I had to
impatiently wait during the usual foot chase / car chase / shootout
scenes to get rewarded with a Kevin Hart joke.

We did not pay money to watch ice cube shoot at bad guys. We wanted to
laugh at Kevin Hart. It is so frustrating because the formula for
success is so easy to execute. Show us the beginning or ending of
action scenes and give Kevin more time to play off the stone faced ice
cube. Ice cube doesn't even need to act to play the straight cop,
anyone could do it. But instead we get way too long action scenes,
romantic ice cube subplot (which is so unrealistic it actually
distracts the viewer and takes away from the movie) and less laughs.

If you are on a plane or want to put on a movie as you fall asleep,
Ride Along 2 is the play. Don't waste time and money in the actual
theater for this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Ride Along 2(2016) is just another lazily made buddy-cop movie. I
strongly disliked the first 'Ride Along'. The action was underwhelming,
the jokes were weak, the plot was lazy, and the movie was ultimately
forgettable. 'Ride Along 2' does nothing to improve upon the original.
As a matter of fact, it is somehow worse than the original. The action,
comedy, and elements of the plot are shamelessly copied from the
original. The film moves location from Atlanta to Miami. Why Miami?
Because Miami is a huge tourist spot that attracts tons of people.
Atlanta does not. So of course the film jumps location. Instead of
being creative, putting a unique spin on things, or making a memorable
movie, Ride Along 2 opts to make a cheap buck. Most people will forget
about this movie within a week.
<|_=00=_|>
I Have to admit I was suckered in by the trailer, it was exciting and
action packed. I thought they were doing a Bad Boys style movie, boy
was I wrong. This was like a long TV episode of an American crime show
like NCIS, Hawaii Five-O, or CSI but not as intriguing or engaging.

All the action is in the trailer. There's about 3 action scenes and all
3 are not that new or good, they're the type you'd see in standard TV
shows. There's some poor computer game animation mixed into one action
sequence(cus Kevin Hart's character loves to play computer games) which
totally ruins the rhythm of that action sequence and ruins the
enjoyment of it. The end action sequence looks like they couldn't be
bothered, something you would have gotten in a straight-to-video
80s/90s action flick.

It wasn't a good comedy either, there was about 3-4 little chuckles
throughout from some of the audience including myself for some of the
one liners. I read before i went in to watch this sequel that it was
more of an actioner than comedy but for me it didn't deliver in either.

I wasn't expecting anything new or groundbreaking storywise but at
least give me something to keep me interested but its a film that came
across as if they took scenes from loads of other similar films and
just copy/pasted them together.It all just looked WAY too familiar and
not in a good way.

So overall i don't see any reason to recommend paying hard earned money
to watch it at the cinema. I'd recommend waiting until it comes on
TV,as it is like a TV episode anyway. Then at least you can switch over
to another channel if your not feeling it.

If you do want to go to the cinema to watch a comedy then i would
definitely recommend DADDY'S HOME if it's still out, very very funny,
you will defo leave with a smile on your face.

But if your really in the mood for an action-comedy then i would
recommend SPY,which was out in 2015 and is out on DVD now. Great
action, very funny and very entertaining. Everyone i know that's seen
it loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
What ever happened to good comedic movies? It seems they died out in
the 80's. Every comedy now is about the star falling on his ass or
ramming into a tree or face planting on the pavement. So tell me how is
this supposed to be funny? I don't like Kevin heart movies because I
don't think they're funny but went to watch this with a friend.

So this movie was all about talking loud, acting stupid and taking hard
hits to the face and groin. I rolled my eyes throughout the entire
movie and shook my head in wonder. How he heck do these movies make
money? Oh yeah because suckers like me are forced to go watch them. I
will stay away from all heart movies in the future no matter who tries
to drag me with them for company.
<|_=00=_|>
Ben Barber (Kevin Hart) is a rookie cop and getting married to Angela
Payton. Police detective James Payton (Ice Cube) is going to Miami to
track down computer hacker AJ (Ken Jeong). Angela talks her brother
into letting Ben join him. They find help from Miami police detective
Maya Cruz (Olivia Munn). AJ is involved with villainous Antonio Pope
(Benjamin Bratt).

After the original, I thought the sequel has a chance. I thought the
guys' chemistry would make a good buddy cop comedy if they can turn
friends. They're still not that friendly but I'm still going to say I'm
wrong. Kevin is doing the same thing and it's getting tiresome. Maybe
the repetition is getting to me. It's actually getting a little
annoying. He may be losing me at this point. It's time he consider
something different.
<|_=00=_|>
Ice Cube, Benjamin Bratt, Ken Jeong, all fun to watch and good at their
craft.

Kevin Hart is not funny. He is the most annoying person. His incessant
chatter meant to be humorous is grating to the point of wanting to
constantly b**ch slap him. Chris Rock is another who has built a film
persona of constant chatter, but he is funny and is good with physical
humor. Kevin Hart unfortunately does not have these talents. 

DVD rental for $1 when you're sick and have nothing but time on your
hands and stuck in bed. Not worth a penny more and not worth time on a
sunny day, cloudy day, or rainy day.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Hart is making movies faster than rabbits breed, and its not
panning out in his favour. 

Ride Along was bad, and it's sequel is worse. Hart's comedies are very
hit and miss at the moments - some a merely OK, and other are absolute
garbage, and unfortunately this falls with the latter.

The jokes that are littered throughout Ride Along 2 are often crass and
almost completely unfunny- and derive most of their humour from a range
of stereotypes and ridiculous comedic sequences which would fall in
line with the like of The Three Stooges. The worst thing a comedy can
do is bore you, and this does is effortlessly. Many of the amusing
parts (of which there are few) are mostly due to the brilliant ad-
libbing skills of Kevin Hart and Ice Cube.

The story, just as its predecessor, is predictable and completely
disinteresting. The characters along with it are underwritten, and the
additions of the likable Ken Jeong and Olivia Munn are wasted on a
script that squanders the talents of its cast. 

Ride Along 2 is a boring derivative mess that relies on stereotypes far
too heavily for its desperate humour. Unfortunately it made quite a
deal of money at the box office, so it's a safe bet to say that Ride
Along 3 is just around the corner.
<|_=00=_|>
Stand-up comic Kevin Hart still cracks me up. The 5-foot. 2-inch,
bantamweight, motor-mouth, African-American comedian still reminds me
of Chris Tucker standing in a hole two-feet deep. Hart's hyperactive
verbosity, enormous impertinence, and infectious vitality make him
riotous in movies. He could stand around, do nothing, and he would
still be hilarious. He stole the show in the first "Ride Along" crime
thriller comedy with Ice Cube, and he is still a scene-stealer in "Ride
Along" director Tim Story's "Ride Along 2" with Ice still staring him
down with his glacial glare. Unfortunately, the second "Ride Along"
doesn't surpass the original. Hart has more than enough minutes to
clown around in his usual routines, but "R.I.P.D" co-scribes Phil Hay
and Matt Manfredi, who rewrote the original "Ride Along," don't provide
as many surprises. Remember the two dirty cops that surprised Cube at
the end of "Ride Along?" Nothing like that happens in this superficial
sequel. Like the original, "Ride Along 2" dutifully recycles every
clich√© from those 1980s era police procedurals, but producer Will
Packer has anted up more Shekels and shifted the predictable,
follow-the-dots action to Miami, Florida. If you've seen cop movies
like "Rush Hour," "Fuzz," "48 HRS," "Training Day," and "Paul Blart,
Mall Cop," you know what to expect at every turn. "Ride Along 2" sticks
to the formula with slavish zeal, but the camaraderie between Kevin
Hart and Ice Cube as polar opposites overshadows the film's sophomoric
shenanigans. Indeed, "Ride Along 2" resembles one of director Tim
Story's favorite crime comedies "Midnight Run" where a bounty hunter
sought to shield a mob accountant long enough to get him into witness
protection. Story changes the accountant into a computer hacker for
"Ride Along 2," and zany "Hangover" actor Ken Jeong plays the hacker
with unusual restraint.
