
IMPORTANT TO NOTE: the title is no longer "Black and White". In the
film, it is now "Black Or White".

Wonderful script and beautifully acted film. It honestly tells the
story showing the love, anger, hurt, tolerance and intolerance on both
sides. A human drama that truthfully addresses issues of race and
family issues with an interracial child in the middle. And FUNNY! Some
great laugh-out-loud moments in the film. Terrific cast lead by Costner
and Spencer but the two young actors playing Eloise and Duvan are
flawless.

It is very rare for me to gush about a film. And I rarely ever post a
review. But...do NOT miss this film. I'm afraid it may not get much of
a push. This film will make it on word-of-mouth. So see it and spread
the word.
<|_=00=_|>
I was not surprised to read that this film was based on actual events.
I am sure that these situations have played out numerous times when it
comes to mulatto children. The one thing that did surprise me is that
Kevin Costner felt so strongly about this film that he financed it
himself (along with his wife). Being mulatto myself I was happy to see
that a film that broached the subject was finally being made and it
could not have come at a better time with all the racial issues of
recent days. Mr. Costner recommended that you see this film with
someone that does not look like you; and I agree. This film is about
two grandparents that deeply love their granddaughter, Eloise (Jillian
Estell). With the death of Elliot Anderson's (Kevin Costner) wife,
Rowena Jeffers (Octavia Spencer) feels like she would be the better
person to raise Eloise than Elliot and the battle ensues. Rick Reynolds
(Bill Burr) is engaged to handle Elliot's case and Jeremiah Jeffers
(Anthony Mackie) is representing Rowena. Both of these attorneys have
their hands full because both Elliot and Rowena have issues of their
own. The character that I enjoyed the most was Duvan Araga (Mpho Koako)
who is the tutor hired by Elliot to help Eloise stay focused on her
studies among other things. The theater was pretty packed and I think
that everyone in the theater was enjoying the film. You can tell that
it is a good movie when everyone else reacts the same way that you do
to certain situations. This film has the potential to generate a lot of
dialog which I think was the intent to begin with. I had never heard of
writer/director Mike Binder, but I think that after this film, his name
will be more recognizable in the future. What I got out of the film is
that it is not Black OR White.. It is Black AND White. I think that
the entire cast did an excellent job and I would highly recommend this
film to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Racism as a plot line has become a very safe and simple one as of late.
In the past any film that even approached race was a risk, anyone
working on the film would have to be very gutsy to attempt it. However
as of late racism has become kind of a cop out and has become a very
safe option. This however it not true of Black and White.

As soon as the movie begin we are faced with tragedy, our main
character (Played by Kevin Costner) has recently losed his wife and is
forced to raise he bi-racial granddaughter all by himself. As you could
imagine this is no simple task, especially when you have a drinking
problem. Throughout the movie we see our protagonist struggling to
raise his grand-daughter alone and struggling with his heavy drinking
problem that he has. To make matters worse the grandmother on the other
side of the family want custody of the child.

The depth this movie goes into is incredible. In the raging custody
battle both sides attempt to bring up dirt on the other to prove that
they are not suited to raise a child. With twist and turns and even a
downright suspenseful finish Black and White tackles many things movies
haven't done before. First and foremost out hero is called many times a
racist and even brings up racist remarks from time to time. Many black
stereotypes are brought into question and reviewed throughout the court
trial. And without spoiling anything the end contains a both amazing
and very controversial monologue (The highlight of the film in my
opinion) 

Amidst tragedy, family, fear, and prejudice Black and White is a film
that needs to be seen. It is a movie that is able to throw all this
sorrow at you but still leave you with a smile when you leave the
theatre. A must see.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Costner's "Black or White" is one of those break-through movies
who bring the silver screen art to a next level. In his case, the movie
brings the cultural and social conversation about race to a level it
should have been long time ago. The movie suggests a new paradigm for
the topic of race, a level where the social and personal relationships
between people no longer include the skin color. The movie portrays
with a keen sense the tension and resistance our cultural biases pose
to any attempt to remove the racial aspects from the confrontations
between people of different skin color. In "Black or White" Kevin
Costner breaks the pattern of action hero he has got us used with,
displaying acting traits of the highest level. With the camera
close-ups on his face most of the time, his eyes add immense value to
his acting, displaying real emotions and deep feelings only those who
experienced parenting can truly understand and react to. Overall,
"Black or White" is a new paradigm of both his personal acting and the
cultural and social topic of racial tension.
<|_=00=_|>
"This isn't about Black or White. This is about Eloise." Saw Black or
White starring Kevin Michael Costner, Octavia Spencer, Jillian Estell,
and Anthony Mackie at Regal Cinemas! "Elliot Anderson" brilliantly
played by Costner is a lawyer faced with a "curve-ball" life threw at
him and his family when his wife is tragically killed in a car crash.
He is then left to cope with loss, explain what happened and care for
his grand-daughter, "Eloise Anderson" well-played by 10-year old
Jillian Estell, but faces the challenges of racial bias and custody
court proceedings.

"Rowena Jeffers" played by Spencer is "Eloise's" paternal grandmother
who seeks custody of her grand-daughter with the help of her brother
"Jeremiah Jeffers" played by Mackie, and this young lady is left torn
between two families who care for her very much. "Reggie Davis,"
"Eloise's" biological father played by Andre Holland is referred to as
a "street ni**er" according to "Elliot Anderson" (Costner) due to his
criminal record, continued drug use, and inability to be a good father
to "Eloise." 

This racial bias tension pours in to the court custody case which was
ruled on by "Judge Cummins" played by Paula Newsome. It is up to
"Elliot Anderson" and his legal team including "Rick Reynolds" played
by Bill Burr to convince not only the judge but "Rowena Jeffers,"
"Jeremiah Jeffers," and family that "Eloise" is best suited to live
with her "white" grandfather rather than the "black" side of the
family.

What I personally liked about the movie is that it was based on real
events and presented great refreshing messages about race-relations in
modern day America! I enjoyed the film and give it an overall cinema
score of 9/10! Go see it! ‪#‎LoveHasNoColor‬ ‪#‎maverickradio‬
<|_=00=_|>
It took me 24 hours after viewing to process why I didn't like this
film.  First the positives:  the actors, Kevin Costner and Andre
Holland who plays Grandma Wewe's son Reggie deliver stellar
performances.  Octavia Spencer did the best she could with what she had
to work with.  Also, kudos for trying to make the black family a
likable and respectable one.  

The negative:  All the supporting cast outside of Costner's Elliot are
one dimensional.  At first glance one would think the film goes out of
its way to avoid black stereotypes to the point that this family
borders on unbelievable.  For example, Grandma has 6 successful
businesses and real estate holdings, yet she lives in a questionable
neighborhood across the street from a crack house.  She's raising
several other grands, nephews and nieces which implies that there was
something seriously wrong with the adult members of her family.  (Where
are they, in prison?)  And that family jam session!  What kind of black
family is this?  By trying too hard to paint a picture of a loving,
extended family, the movie successfully masks old familiar
stereotypes:  Hard working no-nonsense matriarch, absent man, effed-up
male spawn; but hey, they gotta lotta love, musical ability and good
times to give even if they can't provide the safety, comfort, and
stability that a child needs to be successful.  And oh yeah, maids are
now Hispanic.  

If I were white, this movie would reinforce for me the common
misconceptions whites have about black people: 

1) They make everything about race even when it's clearly not, which
they are more concerned with than the plight of their own communities
and their own families' failings. 2) They have nothing but excuses for
lack of achievement:  compare 30 year old
high-school-dropout-can't-spell-his-own-daughter's-name native son
Reggie, to 19 year old entrepreneurial-polyglot-pianist-immigrant
Duvan. 3) No amount of money that you give them will fix the problems
they themselves create. 4) White fathers still need to protect their
vulnerable daughters from potential permanent ruin from the lowest
elements of black America--political correctness about race be dammed.

Had the two families been on equal economic, educational, and social
footing, there might actually be a story worth telling, one that at the
very least could create a meaningful conversation about race or perhaps
transcend it.  However, this movie isn't a conversation about race but
a soliloquy, eerily reminiscent of the one begun 100 years ago in the
premiere of The Birth of a Nation. 
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. How enthralling!

It has a slow beginning, but when Grandma We-wee (Octavia Spencer)
shows up, she stirs a storm in Elliot's (Kevin Costner) already
tempestuous life and the story begins. Great stakes are at risk. 

In the first hour of the film, we learn about the characters, what they
care for, what they hurt about, what they want. Eloise's (Jillian
Estell) helpless position amidst the stormy relationship between her
Grandma Wee-wee and her Grandfather "Papa" Elliot, pierces one's heart.
The conflict grows gradually and relentlessly. 

In the second hour of the film, I kept drying my tears! It has several
high-voltage emotional moments. There are strong truths revealed. I
felt Elliot's pain and dilemmaKevin Costner is brilliant. The stronger
antagonist appears: the Eloise's drug-addict father. For a very long
moment, it feels like antagonism and injustice will win--I felt chills
of worry, really! Tension builds up throughout until it peaks: terrible
things happen and hearts are shattered and souls touched. The scene
when Reggie has a change of heart is incredibly poignant: I heard
sniffles in the audience...Tears rolled.

Black or White is strong drama, but it does have humorous bits that
balance out the heaviness of the protagonist's ordeal. There's also
great visual storytelling: Elliot's mirages, some physical
confrontations, and the wordless dynamics between characters. 

This is such a relevant film. We all want the best for our children.
But what I find powerful is the theme and the message. In the end, it
doesn't matter whether is black or whitewhat matters is whether is
right or wrong. It's a beautiful script. 

And it's also an honestly performed script. Kevin Costner shines: he
invests himself into this flawed hero with such realism and conviction.
Octavia Spencer is so sweet and pungent and a stubborn self-made woman.
Jillian Estell: she is a darling and a stoic lovely little girl. Andre
Holland (Reggie) is so genuine in his acting--he portrays a broken man
with a hidden heart. And the interactions between Elliot, Grandma
Wee-wee, the lawyers, and the judge are dramatic and hilarious. Overall
fantastic performers!

The culmination of the story and the resolution of conflicts feel
satisfactory. Our hero reaches his goal and more. And the child, gets
the best of both worlds. There's forgiveness and healing.

Please watch it.

You'll walk out of the theater teary-eyed and with a smile!

Cheers.
<|_=00=_|>
Black or white, nobody's perfect and the movie does a good job
portraying that. Kevin Costner plays Elliot Andersen, the grandfather
of a Eloise Andersen who he's been raising with his wife since the day
she was born, but when he's wife passes suddenly, her Grandma Rowena
does not feel Elliot is capable of taken care of the child alone,
epically when the death of his wife brings out what she considers his
drinking problem, so she gets her little brother, a lawyer to take
legal action.

The movie seems to work as a vehicle to freely say the things that I
think need to be said about race in this country. We live in a world
were we can be so politically correct that it does nothing to actually
solve the problem, but sweep it under the rug, and this movie is not
about that.

But that's superficial for selling the movie to the audience. Black or
White would work equally if everyone in the movie were black or white.
It's a real story about a blended family were the child is unable to be
cared for by the parents and the village has to step in.

This movie is about love, as sappy as it sounds. No one is perfect, but
if you love someone enough, the right thing can be done for their
benefit. this statement goes for anyone no matter if they are black or
white.

Black or White does work for the court room scenes however. It was like
watching two different countries use an political agenda to take
control of an island they both wanted. To watch Grandpa Elliot do
nothing but show love for his Eloise, after his wife's death and
attempt to keep it all together for her, then watch him be attacked in
the court for being too white to take care of a black child was
painful.

Yeah, I would definitely recommend this movie to see, I'm glad Costner
was able to get it made.
<|_=00=_|>
funny, brilliant, honest script and actors who pull off both harshness
and sympathy. special mention to Anthony Mackie, though I know all the
critics will give a lion's share of praise to Octavia Spencer and Kevin
Costner. Mackie (aka the Falcon) delivers a powerful, resonating speech
that simply must be heard. the judge was awesome too, absolutely spot
on. 

i saw this with my mother at the Toronto Intl Film Festival Elgin
Winter Garden Theatre. the room was packed, and the crowd was mixed not
just racially but generational too. this is truly a universal film
despite its title.

i highly highly recommend this film to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
In late 1991, Michael Jackson released a song calling attention to the
need for racially harmony. The lyrics repeat the sentence: "It don't
matter if you're black or white." Although the movie that shares the
song's title doesn't use or reference MJ's number 1 hit, "Black or
White" (PG-13, 2:01) very effectively reinforces the song's message
with a story that's both a pleasure to watch and very timely.

Kevin Costner stars as Elliott Anderson, an L.A. attorney who, with his
wife, was raising their bi-racial granddaughter, Eloise (the delightful
Jillian Estelle). Eloise's mother / Elliott's daughter died in child
birth at the age of 17 and the 23-year-old boyfriend who got her
pregnant promptly disappeared. Now, Elliott's beloved wife is killed in
a car accident and Eloise's care falls to Elliott. Eloise is a happy
7-year-old who has a very close relationship with her grandfather, but
her surviving grandmother, Rowena (Octavia Spencer) feels that Eloise
is missing out. Rowena is a real estate agent and entrepreneur who
lives with her large family live in Compton. Rowena and her family are
welcome in Elliott's home, but that's not enough for Rowena. She feels
that Eloise needs a mother's love (or at least a feminine touch), more
regular contact with the rest of her family and a stronger connection
with her racial heritage, things that Rowena feels Elliott cannot
provide. In a sense, Rowena is right. Elliott hires a math tutor (Mpho
Koaho) who becomes a big part of Elliott and Eloise's life, and Elliott
takes some time off of work, but at the end of the day, he's basically
raising Eloise by himself. It's a very tough time for Elliott (and
Eloise), but also for Rowena and her family, who miss the little girl.
Both sides of Eloise's family love her dearly and want what's best for
her  although they disagree on exactly what that is.

When Elliott refuses Rowena's suggestion of shared custody of Eloise,
Rowena decides to sue for full custody. Rowena's brother, Jeremiah
(Anthony Mackie), is also an attorney and has agreed to represent
Rowena in her custody case. At the same time, Elliott's law firm is
representing him in his fight to keep his granddaughter with him. For
her part, Eloise wants to stay where she is, but the growing tension
around her is causing her significant stress  and some confusion. As
complicated as this situation already is, Elliott and Rowena each have
issues that work against their cases  and what's best for Eloise.
Elliott drinks  a lot (even using Eloise's math tutor as his driver at
times), but there is some question as to whether Elliott is actually an
alcoholic. On the other side, as the custody battle is just heating up,
Rowena welcomes her prodigal son, Reggie (Andre Holland) back in to her
home and changes her custody petition so that Reggie is actually the
one fighting for custody. Reggie is the girl's father, but he has a
criminal past which includes drug use, which Reggie keeps insisting is
no longer a problem. Rowena loves her son, but seems to place an undue
amount of faith in his character and his potential. Compounding these
challenges is the fact that Elliott and Rowena each have a blind spot
regarding these problems of theirs. Both sides also have to struggle
against the prejudices that each has toward the other, prejudices which
they may not even fully appreciate themselves.

"Black or White" is a very good title for a very good movie.
Considering recent racially-charged court cases, it's an especially
timely movie  and one that hints at a solution to these issues. Having
two Oscar winners (Costner and Spencer) as the main characters gives
the film gravitas and Mike Binder's script and direction make for a
movie that plays fair with both sides and all characters. This film is
an opportunity for all audience members to reflect on their own
prejudices and whether or not, in the final analysis, many of the
racially inflammatory issues of our times should even be a question of
"black or white". This film, like Michael Jackson's song, imagines a
world in which people are judged, in Martin Luther King Jr.'s words
"not by the color of their skin, but by the content of their
character." The story's resolution may be a bit simplistic, but also
shows us that we, as individuals and as a society, don't have to regard
every issue that divides us as a case of winners and losers, black or
white. This movie is well-deserving of a look  and at least a little
post-multiplex contemplation  no matter if you're well, regardless of
your race. For an effective, heartfelt, occasionally humorous and
entertaining exploration of one of the most important issues of our
time, I give this one an "A-".
