
I really enjoyed this funny and heart-warming movie about a chef and
his relationship with food and his son. The film is worth about 8.5 in
my books. The current IMDb score is roughly accurate, despite the
inexplicably negative reviews and voting of a tiny minority.

Leguizamo and Vergara light up every scene they're in. Quite a few
A-list Hollywood stars are in this movie, but it's not a Hollywood
movie at all. The performances by all the main and supporting actors
were excellent. When I try to single one or two out, I just start
thinking about how good the others were too.

You feel like the movie had no script at all, that's how natural the
writing was. Remarkably cliché-free.

I was subtly but deftly moved at the end. This is an optimistic guy
movie but women will enjoy it as well.

Kudos to Favreau (of course) and to everyone else involved in this
film. I have a new respect for Favreau and will watch out for his films
in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
I did not expect such a talented cast of actors mostly in small parts.
Jon Favearu has a lot of friends. The actor who played his son is a
find. He was great. Low key, sweet and very natural and believable. The
story is good. It is about the chef and then the food truck, but it
really is about him and his son. I liked that he was friends with his
ex wife, Sofia Vergara, who did a great job. That struck home for me,
because my ex and I get along well and it brought a lump to my throat
to see how happy that made their son. It is special when divorced
parents can get along and do things with their kids. The story moved
quickly and I loved how the son used twitter and they incorporated
social media into the story. Very realistic. I highly recommend this
movie. Really a joy to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
At an early point in Chef, the title character cooks a grilled cheese
sandwich for his 10-year-old son, Percy. It's a familiar recipe bread,
butter, and cheese  but the way that the camera lingers on the melting
cheese, and the care taken in how the food was served, made me want to
reach into the screen and take a bite. If Chef were a meal, it would be
comfort food. When comfort food is done right, boy oh boy does it hit
the spot. 

Favreau directs and stars as Carl Casper, a celebrated chef at a swanky
Los Angeles restaurant, whose creativity and integrity is compromised
by the restaurant's controlling owner. After a video of him losing his
temper at a food critic goes viral he becomes not only unemployed, but
unemployable. With his reputation in shreds, he decides to get back in
touch with his roots by opening a food truck and taking it  along with
line cook and son - on the road, rediscovering his passion along the
way.

The pairing of sumptuous shots of food preparation with Latin beats is
hard to resist for most audiences, and the food shots in Chef are so
luscious and evocative that you can almost smell what's cooking. The
music, sensual and spicy, is perfectly matched to the food. There's a
beauty and a rhythm in the food preparation scenes and the amount of
them included in the film is just right, so as not to feel over
indulgent. 

There is also a lot of enjoyment to be had from watching the
performances of the supporting cast, and perhaps this is because each
of them play to their strengths: Robert Downey Jr steals the scene as
Casper's ex-wife's other ex-husband who is rich, generous, and always
looks like he's on the verge of doing something really crazy; Sofia
Vegara plays Casper's sweet, sexy, well- meaning ex-wife, who he is
still great friends with; John Leguizamo, always an interesting actor
to watch, has fantastic chemistry with Favreau and the young actor who
plays his son, and some of the more meandering scenes in the film are
made interesting by his infectious energy; and Dustin Hoffman adds an
element of compassion to a role that could have easily been reduced to
a caricature. The stars featuring in the film stay firmly within their
safe zone, and I couldn't help but remember what Hoffman tells Favreau
early in the movie: play your hits, because no one wants to go to a
Rolling Stones concert and not hear 'Satisfaction'. While this can have
the potential to be boring, it bodes well for the film: we know we're
in safe hands, and we're going to come out of this feeling satisfied.
Special mention must be made of Emjay Anthony, who plays Favreau's son
Percy with the perfect blend of maturity and innocence, and is really
the emotional centre of the film. 

While the film is certainly a feast for the senses, at its core it's
about restoration: restoring the father-son relationship, and restoring
passion. It's hard to ignore the parallels to Favreau's own career:
after breaking out in the 1996 indie hit Swingers, Favreau has in
recent years become a director of the mega-blockbusters: the first two
Iron Man movies, and the less well-received Cowboys & Aliens. Here, he
cleanses his palate as a director and returns to more down-to-earth,
feel-good fare (there's even a dead-on remark about Casper's/Favreau's
"dramatic weight gain". Ouch). A familiar recipe made with great
ingredients, Chef will leave you feeling satisfied.
<|_=00=_|>
Jon Favreau's pet project, after a decade of big budget,
heavy-on-special-effects, blockbusters and fantasy fair, is as charming
as they come. The film follows a master chef (played by Favreau) whose
career is derailed and, as a last resort, opens a food truck and drives
across country with his young son and his sous-chef, played by John
Leguizamo, selling Cubano sandwiches. Along the way, we're treated to
food-porn at its best and introduced to a cast of characters that would
make Woody Allen blush: Oliver Platt, Dustin Hoffman, Sofia Vergara,
Robert Downey Jr., Scarlett Johansen, and a slew of other familiar
faces.

This is still a far cry from 'Swingers' - the film that began the
plague that is Vince Vaughn and managed to charm every straight man in
America - but the man knows how to make a light comedy with clever
dialogue that doesn't feel frivolous. This is far from indie/art-house
but Favreau was candid in saying that he had no desire to make a
cinematic contribution, he simply fell in love with the premise, ran
with it, and the result brought the house down.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm no foodie but I really enjoyed this road-trip / father-son / buddy
movie, written directed by and starring Jon Favreau, based on the
recent life and times of a perfectionist chef who struggles to suppress
his own innovation to the demands of his conservative paymaster boss.
More than this, he gets involved in a spat with the town's number 1
food critic, sees his relationship with his son founder under pressure
of work and still pines after his glamorous and super-rich ex-wife.

There's not much more to the story than that and I feared for all the
anticipated parental-bonding scenes I would see the second I clapped
eyes on his flop-haired 10 year old son but I was very pleasantly
surprised to be engaged by this lighthearted, fast-moving, feel-good
movie, right up to the predictable happy ending for all concerned.

With a busy but enjoyable soundtrack of soul and salsa in the
background, nice realistic acting by all the leads right down to son
Percy and of course lots of scrumptious shots of freshly made food,
this movie certainly mixed its ingredients together well, delivering in
the end a most palatable dish.

Perhaps the star-power cameos were a little unnecessary, maybe the
father-son stuff did get a little hokey at times and the wraparound
happy ending did seem somewhat forced but on the whole I found this a
very watchable and occasionally funny movie which more than whetted my
appetite for a decent Saturday night stay-in movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Jon Favreau is Chef Carl Casper working in a restaurant for a boss he
doesn't see eye to eye with. He ends up leaving his job after he
becomes fed up with the menu and receiving some bad criticism from a
food critic. He exchanges insults with the food critic via Twitter and
of course it goes viral and Carl's reputation is really on the line.
He's also having some problems with his own personal life after he and
his wife split and he is trying to build a relationship with his young
son. The story follows Carl as he looks to get his career back on track
and build stronger bonds with his loved ones.

The whole cast was very likable and easy to relate to, Carl and Tony
had a very funny working relationship and are then joined by Carl's
son, Percy when they get the food truck going. Then we have smaller
roles for Scarlett Johansson, Robert Downey Jr., Dustin Hoffman and
Sofia Vergara...some cast list that.

This is certainly a feel good film, I couldn't help but smile when
watching. There was some lovely looking food on display and a great
soundtrack to boot. Although it was mostly a comedy (and it was pretty
hilarious in places) the film also had some heated arguments for
dramatic effect, I felt this worked really well to show the viewer just
what the characters are going through. Overall it was just a fun,
unique film.

A really enjoyable film, heartwarming, feel good fun, one of the best
films of 2014. 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't help feeling that this movie is not only about a chef finding
himself, but it's also about lead actor/director Jon Favreau trying to
get back in touch with the kind of films he used to make -- small ones
without guys wearing super-suits or cowboys drawing down on aliens.
Here, Favreau's Carl Casper quits his big Iron Restaurant job and
rediscovers himself, and his passion for food and family, by running a
Chef-sized food truck. Results: excellent.

Films like this can be lost if the wrong kid is cast. Emjay Anthony is
the right kid. He's great as Percy. I particularly enjoyed the way the
film handled Percy's internet-savviness, and how he used it. John
Leguizamo is a great fit as Carl's friend and sous-chef. Sofia Vergara
as Carl's ex- wife is, as usual, capable and stunning.

See Chef, and bear witness as a good filmmaker continues his journey to
becoming a great one.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to enjoy this film and have it live up to its hype, but I
couldn't. I thought I might be watching a homage to food like
"Sideways" was to wine, but the last minute was written like like
Favreau was running out of ink or paper for his script. It starts out
fine, but after the Chef is fired/quits/takes the night off after the
bad review, he goes home and preps all this great food. I thought he
intended to invite the critic to eat this food, but instead he goes
back to the restaurant without the food and screeches at him at the top
of his lungs. Wha? Then, I get the buddy/father/son road trip across
country in the food truck. I'm thinking "Sideways"...then they get to
LA and the last minutes of the movie derail this movie completely: the
critic loves the food truck food a little too much & offers Chef a job
at his restaurant. Wait a second: the owner of the first restaurant
promised Chef total food control too & later changed their deal so Chef
would cook only what the owner wanted. So, I thought the food truck was
about having sole control again. Nope: chef decides to accept the deal
and enter into another deal working for somebody else, just like how he
started at the first restaurant. That makes no sense. The food truck
vanishes in an instant to be replaced by the restaurant and we see the
chef married to his ex-wife for only the sole reason that she
inadvertently blurted out she loved her ex a couple minutes earlier in
the film. Wait, what? This could have been a 10 movie, if only Favreau
had focused on what the premise of the movie was supposed to be: a chef
in love with cooking standing on his own two feet and succeeding.
Instead, I'm left with the impression that this movie was more a
statement about the good/evil of using social media (mainly Twitter).
Maybe the movie should have been called "Cyberbully"?
<|_=00=_|>
Stepping away from the blockbusters that have occupied his time and
talents of late, Jon Favreau scales back the spectacle to deliver Chef,
a thoroughly enjoyable story of redemption set amid the chaos and
camaraderie of the kitchen in which Favreau delivers what may be his
best performance yet. In addition to taking on the lead role of
disgruntled chef Carl Casper, Favreau also wrote the screenplay and
served as producer and director, putting himself firmly in the firing
line if the film misfired. Fortunately, he has got most of it right and
Chef overcomes any shortcomings through its refreshing take on
relationships - particularly between Carl and his 10-year-old son Percy
(Emjay Anthony) - and the power of technology and social media as both
a destructive force and an instrument of considerable social currency.
Confined to bit parts of late in the likes of The Wolf of Wall Street
and the three Iron Man films, Favreau seems to relish the opportunity
to take on this role of a man forced to re-evaluate everything that is
important to him.

We first meet Carl as he begins preparations for the evening ahead at
the restaurant at which he is the head chef. Once hailed as the next
big thing in culinary circles, Carl's career and reputation has
stagnated somewhat as he finds himself frustrated by the limitations
placed on him by restaurant owner Riva (Dustin Hoffman). You see, Riva
is more interested in maximising profit, while Carl is desperate to
shake things up and broaden the menu, particularly with high profile
critic Ramsey Michel (Oliver Platt) dropping in to sample the fare. It
is not giving too much away to say that things don't go well and, when
Carl unleashes at Michel in a tirade that goes viral, his tenure at the
restaurant is over. At the urging of his ex-wife Inez (Sofia Vergara),
Carl heads to Miami and establishes a food truck that enables him to
reconnect with his love of cooking and the son he has neglected. Much
merriment ensues as Carl hits the road to redemption with Percy and
best friend Martin (John Leguizamo) along for the ride.

The film very much celebrates the art of cooking and gastronomes will
go nuts at the myriad montages of Carl at work in the kitchen, whether
it be in the restaurant, the food truck or at home where even a toasted
sandwich is prepared with passion and precision. The relationship
between Carl and Percy, which is the crux of the narrative with the
food truck as the conduit that brings them together, is refreshingly
realistic and devoid of mawkish sentimentality. Young Graham is
remarkably composed and naturalistic as Percy and the underrated
Leguizamo makes the most of his best role in ages. The music is
fabulously funky, creating the up-tempo mood that permeates the second
half of the film. There really is a lot to like here, which makes it
easy enough to overlook those aspects that go unexplained. For example,
Inez lives in a luxurious house with an armada of domestic staff and is
always making reference to her work, yet we never get any sense of what
this work entails and ultimately Vergara seems to be simply rehashing
her Modern Family persona, albeit not quite so shrill.

The sudden disappearance of Scarlett Johansson from the narrative is
another mystery that remains unsolved. In the opening portion of the
film, Johansson's Molly works as a hostess at the restaurant and there
is clearly a mutual attraction between her and Carl. In fact, a scene
in which Molly lounges seductively while Carl prepares a meal is sexier
than most love scenes, yet once Carl leaves for Miami, Molly is neither
seen nor heard from again. A cynic might suggest that Johansson's
inclusion, along with a somewhat strange cameo from Robert Downey Jnr
as another of Inez's ex-husbands, is simply Favreau calling upon his
Iron Man co-stars in an attempt to secure maximum leverage for his film
with multiplex audiences.

The film demonstrates the power of ubiquitous presence and power of
social media; initially bringing Carl to his knees before ultimately
playing a very significant role in his resurrection as a chef and a
father. Despite a few unanswered questions along the way, Chef is a
charming, refreshing surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
CHEF is a total delight! I was expecting a forced attempt by Hollywood
veterans to make a "charming" and "heartfelt" indie. Instead, I
discovered a truly genuine film that is both charming and heartfelt for
real with no unnecessary plot points (OK, the end is a bit rushed and
tagged on). This is the best film since SINGIN IN THE RAIN to depict
the pleasure and fun of hard work, friendship, and camaraderie. CHEF
has a great spirit that is never forced and every performance is truly
perfect. Just spot on in every way. Favreau really shows what a great
director of actors he is in the direction of Emjay Anthony. This is a
real kid, not a movie kid.

CHEF will surprise you in the best way! Work hard, appreciate what
you've got. A great message.
