
"America doesn't bail out losers. America bails out winners." How is
that for an American dream motto? This axiom, among many others
presented in the film, is the foundation as the blood- splattered
frames of Ramin Bahrani's latest offering begin to roll.

The blood is from a homeowner who'd rather kill himself than be kicked
out of his home by Realtor Rick Carver (Michael Shannon). More of a
preying vulture than empathetic human being, Carver shows no sympathy
for the man who took his life instead of giving up his family home  an
attitude trait we believe he has for everyone.

Bahrani, a prolific American independent director, is known for
focusing on strong characters. Highly secretive and mostly broken
individuals, the challenges and obstacles many of his protagonists face
are mapped out and executed in unique, but usually tragic ways. His
expertise is focusing more on the formula of their progression than the
final outcome. With 99 Homes, Bahrani switches gears, focusing more on
the narrative and development of the story, rather than his deep, often
slow, evolution of memorable characters.

Thankfully, Bahrani doesn't exactly abandon ship in his character
building philosophy with his main protagonist and antagonist in the
film. He is able to put more focus on his narrative and visual style
here, thanks to actor Shannon, who helps maintain the flow of Carver as
well as the people around him. For the most part, character-driven
directors find it difficult to give all creative energy to their
actors, especially after building up a filmography that shows his
obsession with leading his main men. But with an actor like Shannon,
one of the most confident and reliable actors working today, Bahrani
needs not have this fear of relinquishing control of character
development. In fact, Shannon's understanding of Carver's journey and
discreet choices of dialogue, begs the question if Bahrani could have
achieved this character development on his own.

Bahrani's protagonist is Dennis Nash, played wonderfully by Andrew
Garfield. Garfield, who was one of the few fortunate Hollywood actors
to grace the stage with the legendary Philip Seymour Hoffman on the
Broadway stint of Death of a Salesman, seems to have absorbed much of
the acting genius of the late Hoffman. Holding his own against a larger
than life acting force that is Shannon, Garfield's Nash allows himself
to feed off Carver's greed and sinisterly convincing monologues with
scenes of heart-wrench, grit and sensitivity.

99 Homes shouldn't be described as the typical tour-de-force, but more
of a tour-de-fact cinematic achievement. The filmmaker, whose adamant
cinematic attitude is almost non- apologetic on-screen, choosing to
highlight a truly sad time in American history. Set in Florida in 2010,
when homes were being repossessed by the bank for every chime of the
clock on the wall, the film shows a raw portrait of every family's
worst nightmare; a moment of complete vulnerability and
uncertaintybeing left on the side of the road, with all you're worldly
possessions sitting on the lawn.

As troubling as it sounds, some of the best scenes of the film are when
people are evicted from their homes. Beginning with Nash, his mother
Lynn Nash (Laura Dern) and son Connor (Noah Lomax), and ranging from
young, old, non-English speaking, accepting and manic, the film shows
the different shades of people, sometimes dangerous and always
desperate.

Nash, a general contractor who never sits at the wayside, becomes a
true character of action. The determination of Dennis Nash, thanks to
the convincing acting of Garfield, is a little glimmer of hope that man
is able to triumph over the recklessness of society's actions, but at a
severe cost. Nash's choices and inner struggle is a sharp and dangerous
double-edged sword. Nash is a truly tormented moral character who,
through his journey of self-discovery, wealth and pain, always draws on
the most basic human elements. The biggest question Bahrani leaves
audiences with is, "what would you do if you were left in the same
situation?"

Possibly the most commercial of his work thus far, the director of Chop
Shop, Man Push Cart, At Any Cost and my personal favourite Goodbye
Solo, does a magnificent job of juggling the moral and ethical lines of
his characters, allowing the audience to ask itself the same questions
the characters are asking themselves as the film progresses. This fine
element of 99 Homes keeps Bahrani's tradition of bustlingly tragic and
anguished characters alive with vivid, exciting, and mostly
unpredictable results.

99 Homes is one of the most complete and appealing films of Bahrani's
career. Engaging enough for causal movie-goers, and enough to chew for
veteran nit-picking cinephiles, the film is easily one of the most
compelling films at TIFF.

Garfield may be know for his role as afflicted teen Peter Parker or
Spider-Man by many, while audiences may know Shannon best for his
villainous turn as General Zod in the recent Superman reboot Man of
Steel. The best part about watching 99 Homes is analyzing these men,
and seeing them transform before our eyes into the demons that haunt
the streets and doorsteps of everyday people. Sheltered in our own
little seats and watching the unfortunate tragedy unfold on-screen,
this compassionate slice of other people's reality is one of the most
engaging features of 2014. Founded on concrete performances, sturdy
direction and a narrative with a good roof on its head, 99 Homes is
built to last.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at TIFF 2014 where it seemed to be received pretty
positively.

Kudos to those involved with casting as every actor/actress, from the
leading Andrew Garfield and Michael Shannon, right down to those who
were only in one or two scenes, did a really good job. There were a lot
of confrontational emotions in this movie and the actors/actresses did
a great job of getting me to empathize with their characters. I had a
hard time believing that Laura Dern's young-looking character was
Garfield's character's mother, but she acted well.

I felt that Bahrani struck a good balance between showing the audience
Garfield's character's life with his family VS his professional life.

I found the music throughout the movie to be pretty appropriate. The
music chosen for each scene complimented the dramatic tone of what was
happening.

There were two things about the movie that bothered me enough to pull
me out of the tense drama temporarily: (1) There were a couple of big
coincidental moments (one of which is directly related to the final
scene) that seemed a bit too fate-like. For a movie with the very real
backdrop of the US housing market crash, and such believable
characters, these unrealistic occurrences seemed out of place. (2) At
one point, a montage format is used to quickly show Garfield's
character go through a bunch of different exchanges with other
characters. This quick cutting from scenario to scenario is a missed
opportunity to fully immerse us viewers in a couple of heart-wrenching
moments. As a result, the mixed emotions that I recognized I was
supposed to feel weren't as strong as they could have been.

Overall, this drama was well done. I think it could have been better in
some areas, but it was still a nice watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Say what you want about America but money is a very big part of our
society. It's a free-for-all pursuit of money and it so helps with
having a good family background. If you can't afford college to get
your degree or don't have a career after high school, you are on your
own. It's like high school all over where you have to find yourself
again.

99 Homes has many themes pertinent to today's society. From the idea of
money and how to handle your money and also the banking system, it's an
accurate image of our society today. Who knows how it will hold up
twenty years down the road due to how society is going to change but
for now 99 Home knows exactly what's going in the world now and tells
it's story in a very original way.

Dennis Nash (Andrew Garfield) is an unemployed construction worker who
gets evicted along with his family from his home by businessman and
con-man Rick Carver (Michael Shannon). As a way of getting his
childhood home back, Dennis joins Rick's business team not knowing what
lies ahead for him.

As most kids after high school, I didn't have a plan for myself and
college was my only option. I was lucky enough to get a good job at a
grocery store that will be able to support me though college. Even
though I had my differences with my hometown, growing up in one of the
richest towns in Michigan had it's perks also. It's so hard and
heartbreaking to watch Dennis not have money or a name to himself. He
must support his mother Lynn (Laura Dern) and his son Conner (Noah
Lomax) through only construction jobs. Then you have someone like
Carver who's at the different end of the spectrum and doing everything
right for himself but he is someone who makes his big dough from
forcing people out of their own homes and in the wrong way. As we
expect, Michael Shannon, always plays a determined and powerful
character and he is able to captivate every character that he plays.
That said, Andrew Garfield's performance is even more impressive. He is
able to express through emotions the things his character is dealing
with and he takes you on a ride with him. He plays a character who does
not know how to save his family and who is wondering if the scheme he
is involved in is the right thing to do. His morals and values are
being severely tested.

Another example of the money ideas at play here is the setting. The
movie is set in Orlando, Florida, with some of the biggest houses on
the street sitting next to the smallest houses where the evictions
happen. It is such an accurate image again of how different the concept
"money" is for everyone. Some people are set for life where others are
living paycheck to paycheck. This film seems to know both sides of that
so well.

99 Homes is a film that the main topic is eviction and really this
should have been dull ride. How this film is able make this topic
interesting and thought-provoking is very impressive. 99 Homes is so
off the map on this topic but in a good way.

99 Homes is a character study with Oscar quality performances
especially from Garfield. It is also societal story and commentary, a
story of determination and one of the top films of the year all rolled
in one. There are literally are 99 reasons to go see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Micheal Shannon really controls the screen when he's on it. He plays
villain well, especially well in this film, showing both sides of the
coin.

99 Homes expresses how everyone was effected by the economy drop and
how using the excuse of keeping afloat as a way to let doing what you
have to do corrupt you.

99 homes is about the corruption of Dennis Nash, played by Andrew
Garfield as he does what he has to do to get back his home for his mom
and his child, after it being taken away from by Rick Carver, played by
Micheal Shannon. Ironically Dennis goes to work for the enemy becoming
the very person that put him in this situation.

You can't help to be emotional about 99 Homes, it's a movie about a
period in history but it's so recent, you either are or know someone
who has a story similar. Attacking such current events add to the drama
and the tension of the movie.

It was interesting to watch this narration unfold and well acted by
Micheal Shannon and Andrew Garfield. Very good watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Short and simple. The movie was entertaining the whole way through.
Only two parts I didn't like was the mom flipping out and the ending.
How can you get that mad at your son and take his kid away. He did what
he had to do to help his family survive. I just felt the mom was being
ungrateful. I'm also pretty positive that his son would of become
excited and jumped in that pool. Any kid at that age would be excited
for a swimming pool. The ending was also pretty lame. I mean why end
Soprano style. I feel like I wasted my time watching this movie because
there really is no ending. Anything could of happened as it ended. If I
would of known how it ends before watching I probably wouldn't of
watched. So if your like me maybe this review will stop you from
wasting time on what could have been a great movie. Movie was an 8 for
me up until the end.
<|_=00=_|>
I bet this will be viewed as a powerful, emotionally packed film for
anyone who doesn't know the first thing about real estate or
construction; but for anyone in the know--it's pure nonsense.

There's one scene in particular, where Dennis, the prodigy of the
mentor eviction king Rick, says that he took care of a huge water stain
in a ceiling by just plastering over it (he uses the industry term
"mud") and then he "found some paint in the garage" and it's all done.
Well, riiiiight. As a plasterer I wish it was that easy. That water
stain would have leached right through that "mud" and 99 to 1 that
paint isn't going to match, even if it's the same color as the age old
paint on the ceiling. Yeah, suuuuure, that's what you did, Dennis,
sure. I'm lingering on this insignificant one example because it's the
most blaring to me, but all in all, the real estate dealings in this
film ring with the same untruthfulness. I've actually been part of an
eviction process, representing a landlord. First off, it's not always
the landlord or bank that is the evil entity. Sometimes it's just the
tenant who is the deadbeat and no, the sheriff doesn't show up the day
after the judge orders an eviction. The eviction I was part of took
EIGHT MONTHS to complete and even after that it took six weeks for the
sheriff to finally show up. Nearly an entire year where the tenant
didn't pay a penny in rent.

But let's suspend our disbelief for a moment and assume that there's
some nook or cranny in this country where what's depicted in this film
is possible. That still doesn't explain why the king of evictions,
Rick, out of the blue, takes on one of his evictees, Dennis, like
Gordon Geiko from Wall Street taking on Bud Fox. There was a reason
Gordon took on Bud: Bud wooed him for years trying to get into the
door. But there isn't any reason Rick should want to take Dennis under
his wing. It makes absolutely no sense. One second he's evicting this
guy and an hour of movie time later the guy is practically his business
partner, all the while struggling with his conscience in a not so
subtle way.

On a side note, the bad guy Rick vapes an e-cig. That seems to be a
trend in Hollywood--the bad guy vaping. How lame considering vaping
saves lives. But I digress.

For some reason, even after working for Rick for quite a while and
making a ton of money, Dennis is still living in the sleaze bag motel
where it seems all of Rick's victims end up (in fact Rick owns the
motel apparently). Why? At least Gordon got Bud a nice penthouse. What
made Wall Street such a great movie is that Bud actually believed in
what he was doing for a while, was having fun at it, before he was
disillusioned. This guy Dennis, he's never in it for a moment, always
showing torment and anguish and guilt on his face (talk about over
acting).

Oh yeah, no problem, it's only the biggest deal of my life worth twenty
million dollars, I'll trust the little quivering nincompoop with
delivering the saving papers to the court house in the nick of time.
Really? Okay then. Maybe a normal person would have a lawyer doing that
dirty work but no, you trust the jerk that you evicted a month ago. And
even the premise of that entire major plot point is preposterous. So
they have a twenty million dollar deal at stake but tried to save five
bucks by not publishing the legal notice in the paper. Oooooookay then.

Let's be honest, Dennis is a stuttering, half-brained idiot who
couldn't even figure out what an appeal means and who let his house get
foreclosed as if he didn't even know what was coming. Why in heaven or
hell would Rick want to make this guy his sidekick? He can't even
communicate with his own mother or son, constantly dragging them around
here and there showing them things without explaining as they express
the same amount of intelligence he demonstrates: "What? Why? What are
we doing here?" And then the stupid ungrateful mother who apparently
couldn't waste a second of her own life being involved in the eviction
process that got her in this circumstance to begin with sticks her nose
up when her son buys her a luxurious mansion with a pool. Oh, no, she
has to have her OLD house back. Oh my. One question. Who wrote this
crap?
<|_=00=_|>
I really wanted to like "99 Homes." I didn't hate it, but it is far
from perfect. The skinny: Andrew Garfield is a construction worker who
loses his home to foreclosure, unable to find work. He has to move with
his young son (Noah Lomax) and mother (Laura Dern) into a hotel on skid
row, but through a twist of fate find himself working for the man who
evicted him (Michael Shannon). As he gets involved deeper in various
real estate scams, his sense of morals has to be balanced against his
need to provide for his family.

Some of the action and the plot is very contrived -- there's no reason
for this big time con man (Shannon) to bring in a protégé and give him
so much access and place so much trust in him. At one point, he's given
a crucial assignment, to deliver a forged document, that Shannon
obviously could have just as easily done himself. You can always
identify dodgy writing when the story has to be manipulated in order to
put the characters in dramatic situations. Another problem in the film
is that while Shannon's bad guy is quite nuanced, Laura Dern is forced
to play the same wise grandmother role she plays in lots of Disney
movies. After being kicked out of her home, you'd think she might not
be quite so high and mighty about the chance to get ahead in life. The
writers of the film can see more than one shade of evil, but only one
shade of good. 

And that kinda gets at the heart of what's wrong with the film -- it's
a film made in 2014, about events that took place in 2010, and yet the
film's vision of America matches what Capra put on celluloid in 1946's
holiday film "It's a Wonderful Life." According to the film, America is
made up of mostly hard working and honest folk who might steal a little
water or power from a bank-owned home next door but who would never --
ever -- EVER -- do anything to hurt anybody else in order to get ahead.
Whenever the film tries to play at moral ambiguity, it easily betrays
it for sentiment. How did we get here, and how do we get out? The film
should either present no answers or it should present a better answer
than it does. The ending feels like a definite letdown. It's not really
earned. 

Andrew Garfield continues to show himself as one of the best young
actors working, and this really should be sort of a star-making role
for Michael Shannon as well. The film is well-directed, but the script
is too manufactured.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a hard working builder who gets
unemployed, and hence cannot keep up with the mortgage payments and is
subsequently evicted. Stars align themselves and his fortune is
reversed when he is offered a job by the man who evicted him from his
home.

"99 Homes" has an intense beginning that absorbs me into the story. The
circumstances it portrays is very real and relevant to people in lower
income brackets, and their pain of losing their homes is piercingly
recreated. I feel so sorry for Dennis because he appears to be such a
hard-working, honest and amicable guy. As the story progresses, he is
faced with various moral dilemmas. The story is captivating, and it's
helped by the intensity of the marvellous performances of Michael
Shannon and Andrew Garfield. It is a very good and thought provoking
film, that leaves me wondering about the rights and wrongs of Rick and
Dennis.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is infuriating and heartbreaking all at the same time, and it
should be. Very naturalistic acting and a "ripped from the headlines"
story coalesce to give one of the most scathing indictments of what the
"American Dream" has become that I've seen a long while. Granted, a few
liberties were taken with certain elements (possibly Michael Shannon's
characterization), but on the whole, 99 HOMES feels like a fairly
accurate representation of what went down when the housing bubble burst
8-10 years ago. And, to a certain extent, things haven't really changed
all that much. The story revolves around Andrew Garfield's character, a
single father who is evicted from his home. Through circumstance, he
comes to work for the man who evicted him (Michael Shannon), and he
gets an opportunity to see how the other half lives. But, will he able
to live with himself now that he's doing to others what was so
callously done to him? While there is an immediacy and current
relevancy to the story being told here, at its heart is a rather strong
moral argument against what the "American Dream" has become (or at
least our perception of it). I was reminded of Oppenheimer's famous
quote about the atomic bomb, except with a few words changed. "War"
becomes "greed" and instead of destroying "worlds," it destroys lives,
reputations, relationships, i.e., all of the intangible things that
make the world go 'round. All that separates greed from ambition is
motivation and insensitivity to the needs of all others but your own.
Other people become a means to your own end. It was fascinating to
watch Michael Shannon and Andrew Garfield (who I've never seen better)
go to work with such a riveting story on a subject that may have more
than a few people second-guessing themselves. The only things which
worked against the film, in my opinion, were the initial coincidence
that leads Andrew Garfield to work for Michael Shannon, and a final act
twist which, although not bowing in deference to cynicism, still felt a
little unrealistic given all that came before it. All things
considered, 99 HOMES is a powerful film which should be seen by all, if
only to raise one's awareness.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a huge fan of filmmaker Ramin Bahrani, and I found his latest
offering a searing and powerful film. Set in Florida, in 2010, at the
height of the foreclosure crisis and the Great Recession, this can be a
most difficult movie to watch at times, not only due to the heart-
rending subject matter, but also due to Bahrani's incredible way of
presenting the stark reality of the human condition and human behavior.

The superb actor Michael Shannon is perfectly cast as Rick Carver, the
corrupt and cold-hearted real estate broker, who for the past three
years has been getting rich by specializing in the foreclosure field.
Unfortunately, many of his tactics including documentation fraud, and
the short shrift given to homeowners in the courts, are not fiction but
have been freely documented in the past.

Another fine actor Andrew Garfield co-stars as Dennis Nash, a
financially struggling construction worker who's being evicted by
Carver from his childhood home, along with his mother Lynn (Laura Dern)
and his young son Connor (Noah Lomax). In his desperation to save his
home, he ends up taking a job from Carver, which will propel him into
Carver's sleazy and corrupt world. It will all spiral down into a most
dramatic finale.

In summary, director Bahrani and co-writer Amir Naderi, and led by the
performances of Shannon and Garfield, have given us another very strong
drama, difficult to watch at times, but, in my opinion, definitely
worth staying with.
