
Most viewers are taking this film as a conventional (and admittedly
entirely predictable) romantic comedy which happens to be about a
magician who debunks fake spirit mediums, and a beautiful young woman
whom he believes is just that. But that's getting it *entirely
backwards*. It is in fact a thought-provoking exploration of the
extreme materialistic worldview -- the view that holds that modern
science has eliminated the possibility of the existence of the soul, an
afterlife, and God -- and an exploration of the psychological
relationship between embracing that worldview, and being pessimistic
and unhappy. As such, it is one of Allen's most personal and
thought-provoking films in years.

And if that sounds "heavy," the miracle of the movie is its very
lightness. Obviously, the themes enter in so effortlessly that many
people are missing them entirely! You need to be interested in the
tension between the materialist worldview and the conventional one that
accommodates the spiritual and the mysterious, but if you are, you will
be astonished at how delightful and entertaining an exploration of
those deep themes can be.

The age discrepancy between Frith's and Stone's characters, which I am
sure will bother many, is in fact completely necessary: he must be old
enough to be set in his pessimistic ways, and she must be young and
beautiful enough to challenge them at first sight.

Obviously there are happy atheists and there are miserable spiritual
people, so the question that Allen is asking here is whether some
unhappy atheists have embraced the soul- and God-denying position too
vigorously, as a sort of defense mechanism to shield themselves from
the fundamentally irrational possibility of falling in love. The way
the movie knits together the materialist / spiritualist question, the
possibility of love, and the metaphor of magic -- well, it's sheer
magic itself.

This is far from Allen's funniest movie, and it's only a 7/10 as
entertainment. But not only does it easily gain an extra point for its
depth, it almost gains two. Admittedly, I am fascinated by the movie's
themes, but I think that anyone who is interested in them may find
themselves as charmed and, ultimately, as deeply moved as I was.
89/100.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a GREAT FILM. I read some of the tepid reviews, went anyway,
LOVED it. Woody, as always, deals with big subjects lightly, the
question here: is there magic in the world? Is there more to life than
meets the eye? I don't know what you believe, but Woody says there is.
I went right along with him.

As far as movie-making is concerned, Woody shows he hasn't lost a step.
Clues are deftly scattered, parallels emerge, the expected happens in
unexpected ways, it's delightful. Woody speaks to our hearts and minds
simultaneously. 

Colin Firth is terrific; spot-on, serious and hilariously dry by turns.
His character reminded me a little of Professor Higgins in "My Fair
Lady." A man confident in his own superior knowledge - until he
encounters real magic - the kind of magic all of us have the
possibility of experiencing.

Emma Stone is revealed as an actress of easy and convincing grace. Of
course, she's beautiful, too, which is never a disadvantage. Both Miss
Stone's and Mr. Firth's characters are so well drawn you can't imagine
anyone doing it better. 

If you're old enough to have lived a little, this film will appeal to
you. If you are currently loving Ninja Turtles, this piece of inspiring
magic will sail over your head. 

Bravo to Woody and his tremendous cast. Well done, ladies and
gentlemen.
<|_=00=_|>
I find all of woody allen flicks interesting. Always an interesting
subject no matter how good bad ugly great the movie is. This new one is
no exception.

MITM is a totally pleasant whimsical delight... the actors are charming
especially Emma Stone and Eileen Atkins as Colin Firth's aunt. 

The humor is very light... whimsy is a good term... is it funny? For me
NO... but it's also not unfunny. It's just this one long smile.

The scenery is gorgeous.

The story is smart hidden in a cute jacket. 

The age difference between the two is maybe a tad much but the rom in
this romcom is not the leading factor... at least for most of it. Maybe
a Colin Firth from 15 years ago would have been a better lead but
unless Woody has access to that time travel device in Midnight In Paris
that was not an option. 

As with some other Allen films there is a turn in direction at some
point. Won't give anything away. Your enjoyment of the movie might
hinge on how you feel after it goes after this point.

For me it may have lingered around too long towards the end. 

Firth is good and likable but I did find some of his character's
decisions to be too abrupt. But maybe that's just me. And some of his
duologue felt a bit rushed and acted. 

I wouldn't personally rank this as one of his recent greats like Paris,
Jasmine, Match Point or VCB... but it's a fun summery concoction of
scenery, whimsy and costumes.
<|_=00=_|>
I guess everyone of us had that moment in life when we realized that
life isn't as magical as we had pictured it. That sometimes you can't
talk yourself into believing something supernatural, something magical,
but deep down you want to believe. What if you were finally convinced
that there is more to the world than meets the eye? That is what
happens to another at heart typical Woody Allen character Stanley, this
time played by Colin Firth and he brings his English cynicism into the
role. Known as debunker of myths and psychics he is enlisted by an
friend to the French Riviera to prove a woman, that everyone is
believing is a clairvoyant, to be fraud. As more time he spends with
this woman Stanley starts to believe that she might be the real deal.
and with that he is also turning into a nice person all of a sudden.
Now that he's got something to believe in.

Colin Firth is as usual cool as a cucumber but this he is actually
likable and quite funny thanks to the always funny dialogue penned by
Allen. Emma Stone is cute and funny as always. But what is real
beautiful is the scenery of the French Riviera and the cinematography
of Darius Khondji who has managed to capture the essence of Paris, Rome
and now the south of France.

The usual Wody Allen themes are quite prominent but still wrapped in
this pleasant summer fare. Allen does get to tackle religion, belief,
magic, the vast size of the universe and of course the unpredictability
of love. Woody Allen is of the opinion that most of his films aren't
perfect, that he never got to make the film he wanted. He has stated
that only three of his films are as he envisioned them. In my opinion
most of his films are perfect and flawless.
<|_=00=_|>
Stanley (Colin Firth) is a famous magician in the Roaring Twenties
Europe. He performs in a Chinese costume, the rage at the time. Yes, he
is great. But, he is a little dictator to the rest of his crew, spewing
out orders right and left. One day, an old friend, Howard (Simon
McBurney), also a magician but not quite as well known, comes for a
visit. Its more than a friendly chat. Howard brings word about a young
medium named Sophie (Emma Stone) who he, Howard, believes is
hoodwinking a wealthy family who lives in the south of France. However,
Howard has seen her in action and CANNOT discover her secret. Could
Stanley come and investigate? Ho ho, indeed he can, for in addition to
magical tricks, our Stanley loves unmasking frauds who claim to have
paranormal powers when everyone KNOWS there is no such thing. There is
no spirit world, no afterlife, no ghosts, etc. That's what Stanley
firmly believes and he has ripped off the disguise of many a huckster.
So, to France the two go. Yet, Stanley is about to face a formidable
foe. He finds Sophie beautiful, intelligent, and gifted. In addition,
after seeing her in action, Stanley is aghast to discover that he can't
understand her talents either, especially after she tells him some of
Stanley's family secrets. This man runs to the home of his nearby aunt
(Eileen Atkins) and plots how to further the cast. Will Sophie be found
to be, gulp, the genuine item? Is there a paranormal world? This lovely
film has it all, my view. It has a great story, with many a memorable
line. Allen is surely the best screenwriter of all eternity. Then, the
actors are terrific. Firth and Stone are dazzling stars while McBurney,
Marcia Gay Harden, Atkins, Jackie Weaver, and all of the rest give
terrific support. Next, the scenery is the kind to put your eyes out
while the costumes, cinematography, and lively direction make for a
most enjoyable film. My only criticism is that Firth and Stone are too
far apart in age to really be a romantic couple, especially with Stone
made to look as young as possible. Nevermind, because its not really
important. What's important is that YOU go see these magical film
before the next moon rises.
<|_=00=_|>
The basic story line/plot was the solid foundation for a very
entertaining combination of very well-written dialog, a well-defined
believable group of characters, fabulous interior and exterior period
(1928) scenery, exquisite period costuming and music, and a terrific
cast that brought it all to life.

Of particular note was the role of the aunt, so charmingly underplayed
by a truly delightful veteran English actress. Her affected portrayal
left me wanting more of her character (she'd be a welcome as-is walk-on
for Downton Abbey).

The philosophic question regarding happiness that the story line raises
had just the right subtle amplitude to leave one pondering, the humor
fit the time period and the characters, and the whole tone and content
of the movie had a lightness that elevated it's entertainment value.

A terrific and not often seen example of well-paced and entertaining
story telling.
<|_=00=_|>
Magic in the Moonlight may be a minor Allen but it's a superbly
accomplished work. It revisits the themes of A Midsummer Night's Sex
Comedy. As Stanley, Colin Firth supplants Jose Ferrer as the hidebound
believer in only the material reality. This Stanley is an upper class
version of the Kowalski in A Streetcar Named Desire (which Allen drew
upon for his previous Blue Jasmine -- see separate blogs). As Sophie
Emma Stone plays the Mia Farrow waif who evokes the magic of a higher
reality and love. 

The film opens in 1928 Berlin, the heady cabaret days that will soon
metastasize into the Nazi conflagration. The formally suited audience
for Stanley's faux-Orientalist magic show and the glittery ball later
in France exemplify the flippant pleasures that distract us from our
mortality  and in this case the imminent war. Since Annie Hall Allen
has reminded us that everything we do is a reaction to our sense of our
mortality. There the cited text was Ernest Becker's The Denial of
Death; here it's Nietszche. Hence the songs "I'll Get By" and "I'm
Always Chasing Rainbows."

Stanley is an ironic exercise of Firth's persona as a stuffy,
egotistical Englishman (Mr Darcy, Bridget Jones' boss) who needs a
sparky young gal (Emma, Bridget) to wake him to the pleasures and sense
in life. Allen emphasizes Firth's advancing age, his sagging jowls, and
even greater priggishness and temper, which make his ultimate
realization of his love and need for Sophie all the more dramatic. 

Critics have complained that Firth and Stone show no sparks, but I'm
sure that's Allen's intention. They meet as false fronts, she faking
spiritual communication with the dead, he disguising his intention to
expose her. Though they spar in the usual Ro Com way (ever since
Benedick and Beatrice) they seem an unlikely couple. He's too committed
to the rational and to exposing the fake to recognize any attraction to
her until he's told about it. She is too dependent on the commercial
success of her fakery and has far more to gain by wedding her besotted
moneybags. But there's the song: "You call it madness, I call it love."
In the end both choose vulnerability over the delusion of security.
Death makes all security delusional. Both also choose honesty. If she
were to marry the lad she deceived, her life would be based on a lie.
If Stanley rejects her he would deny his need for the emotional
connection he has averted all his shallow life. Each discovers in the
other a truth about themselves.

Allen has long balanced the certain limits on life with the hopes for
some fantasy or illusion that will transcend it. As he reiterates here,
we need illusions to get us through life, to make our ineluctable
mortality bearable. So Stanley makes a career out of being a magician,
providing showbiz illusions, and the alliterative parallel Sophie makes
her living  with sumptuous prospects now  out of bolstering her gulls
with assuring lies from the dead. Stanley's fakery is on stage,
Sophie's in life, but both are in the same business, selling illusions. 

Stanley exposes fraudulent spiritualists because he wants to assure
himself there is no spiritual reality beyond our physical world  and
to maintain his monopoly on illusionism. Paradoxically, in the last
scene when the exposed Sophie reappears in order to give the film its
happy romantic ending, her very appearance  in the face of his flat
statement that his proposal "offer is off the table"  she shows the
kind of intuition and understanding that goes beyond the apparent 
what she has been professionally faking. She uses the under the table
seance knocks to announce her presence.

In the face of death we grab what small pleasures we can find. We
attach meaning and importance to things that may not in themselves mean
much. Whatever gets us through the night. Stanley realizes his love for
Sophie by warmly remembering her smile. In Manhattan Isaac counts young
Tracy's smile as one of the beauties that make life worth living. Allen
also replays the planetarium scene as a reminder of the vastness which
shrinks our lives into specks  and grows our every fugitive pleasure
monumental. Sure Allen replays the same themes, scenes, imagery,
Dixieland and period pop, but every recombination rings fresh and true
 and pleasurable. In fact, Beethoven used the same notes over and over
again too and who complains?

In quiet observant ways each scene rings true. Stanley rather brusquely
converts to believing in Sophie because for all his arch rationalism he
has craved a more ethereal beyond, some magic of which his illusionism
is a smug parody. He earnestly tries to pray for his aunt's recovery 
but can't maintain the pretence. Perhaps the film's most brilliant
scene is Stanley's conversation with his marvellous Aunt Vanessa
(Eileen Atkins). Every line each speaks reaffirms his fiancée Olivia as
his ideal mate, yet the conclusion is the reverse, his need for Sophie.
Like the material world the words go one way, but like the spiritual
life the meaning and the effect work the other.

The illusionist Stanley is the Allen figure. As a filmmaker Allen
fabricates illusory dramas, making characters and events appear as
Stanley makes an elephant disappear and himself reappear. In the
melding of reality and illusion Stanley's car trip with Sophie retraces
the Grant-Kelly drive in To Catch a Thief. For the world of illusions
has its own continuity, like the material world, but with more flex.
Obviously the age gap between Stanley and Sophie evokes Allen's
controversial gap with his wife (and Mia Farrow's with her last two
husbands, Frank Sinatra and Andre Previn), but the heart will have its
way. And given that we're all dying, why shouldn't we let it?
<|_=00=_|>
How can you not like Woody Allen's witty script? In Magic in the
Moonlight it is brilliantly acted out by the beautiful Emma Stone and
stubborn and cynical Colin Firth. Similar to Woody's Allen's other
comedies, it is full of fastpaced witty and bitter dialogue, fixation
on death and absurdity of life. But this time there is an additional
element of illusion involved which ironically sets and overthrows the
stage. As the story unfolds, we are as surprised as some of the
characters and yet still feel life is good. 

The movie opens with successful and famous magician Stanley (Colin
Firth) being invited by his childhood friend Howard (Simon McBurney) to
debunk the swindle of renowned spiritualist Sophie Baker (Emma Stone)
from the US staying in a client's villa in the French Rivera. The
client Grace (Jacki Weaver) and her son Bryce (Hemish Linklater) are so
impressed with Sophie that he is going to marry her. 

The airy and condescending Stanley arrives and is immediately taken
aback by the seemingly magical power of Sophie. As their interaction
intensifies, his rational and analytical ability begin to be shaken by
her effortless, spontaneous and unexplainable reading and communication
power.

Sophie, on the other hand, challenges his rationality while bringing
out the romantic side of him without his own awareness. The twists and
turns are extremely logical and pleasant to watch as designed by Woody
Allen's script and unbelievably delivered by these two great actors. It
is almost like a suspense story and we are sucked in right from the
beginning to follow the cast and explore together. Emma Stone shines
with her charming eyes and smiles while Colin Firth reminds us of a
young and babbling Woody Allen. 

As Sophie, Stanley and even Woody Allen make a living creating
illusions, perhaps we are all living in a self-inflicted reality to
help us get through life. But what's wrong with it if it enhances our
senses, making us appreciate life and be happy? 

Maybe we do not really need to be so rational all the time. Let our
body tell us what is happening (Stanley's tossing around at night).
Just go with the flow and enjoy the ride that life throws at us.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody Allen's 45th film in as many years, the wondrously poetic yet
intellectually dazzling "Magic in the Moonlight", proves once again
that he is the greatest living American director. Virtually without
peer, besides the prodigious output, no one moves as effortlessly
between styles and genres while still managing to grapple with the
usual existential themes in new and exciting ways: is love really real,
magical vs. rational thinking, cynicism vs. optimism. Like the master
magician here played so brilliantly by Colin Firth, he manages to use
illusion to ensnare you, to keep you guessing at the outcome despite
his classicist's adherence to form and tradition. But like an artist,
he is also as enthralled as we, as lost in the journey, as anxious
about the final determination of the question of life's purpose and
meaning or complete lack of it. Once again he proves that he is both
right and wrong in his cynical outlook on life, that rationality and
irrationality can coexist perfectly, that one cannot judge or evaluate
the other fairly as neither has a framework to understand the other.
Absurd and frothy on the one hand, nuanced and emotional on the other,
it manages to be at once a light, popular entertainment and great work
of cinematic art.
<|_=00=_|>
Critics have written pretty savage reviews of this film but my date and
I liked it quite a bit. The country gardens were pastoral, the
background music toe tapping and the acting very good. Allen's casting
is always excellent even for small parts. Even "only fair" Woody Allen
is far better than this summer's CGI releases. The audience applauded
at the end.

The dialog was typical Allen. The lead male and female characters took
Allen's own opposing views on God and spirituality. He wants to believe
but in the end rationalism wins out. So does love.

My only criticism is the "screen door" effect of digital filming. The
movie looks as if we were viewing it through a screen. The country
scenes would have been much sharper and colorful on film. 

A minor point: The music piece "Bolero", played early in the film,
wasn't composed and premiered until late 1929, a short time after this
story takes place.
