
Pitch perfect 2 is a hilarious comedy and musical movie with lovely
women.amazing music and fantastic acting. 

It's been three years since the Barden Bellas (Anna Kendrick, Rebel
Wilson) became the first all-female group to win a national title. All
seems well until a botched Lincoln Center performance for the president
leads to a scandal that strips them of their performing duties, causing
internal tension and strife. With the world championships on the
horizon in Copenhagen, Denmark, the women must get their act together
for their one and only shot at redemption.

Lesbians and feminists must see this excellent movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I hated this movie almost as soon as it started. Everything was just
off. It tried way too hard to be funny forcing Rebel Wilson to have to
act extra weird and quirky as opposed to just naturally weird and
quirky. Becca's working at a lame recording studio while trying to tell
the Bellas she's going to quit. There's like two or three new girls
that I can't remember because they're not memorable.

Then they go on this lame camping expedition where Audrey now works
having graduated. The group of German singers they're going up against
really suck and wouldn't even be hard to beat except that the Bellas
suck too. Their end performance was crap especially compared to the
first movie. Pitch Perfect was hilarious, charming, original, and had
great performances. Pitch Perfect 2 was strained and pointless.
<|_=00=_|>
Pitch Perfect 2 is a 2015 American musical comedy film directed by
Elizabeth Banks and written by Kay Cannon. It is a sequel to the 2012
film Pitch Perfect, which was loosely adapted from Mickey Rapkin's non-
fiction book, titled Pitch Perfect: The Quest for Collegiate A Cappella
Glory. The film centers on the fictional Barden University and The
Bellas, an-all female a capella singing group. The film features an
ensemble cast that includes Anna Kendrick, Rebel Wilson, Brittany Snow,
Ester Dean, Hana Mae Lee, and Alexis Knapp. It was released on May 15,
2015 by Universal Pictures.

Plot Of The Movie: Following an incident involving Fat Amy having a
wardrobe malfunction at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts, the Barden Bellas are suspended from the circuit of a capella
performing. In order to regain their status, the Bellas enter the
international competitionÂ—a colossal task since no American team has
ever won.

I loved these sexy women and this perfect number 1 movie.
<|_=00=_|>
After a humiliating command performance at Lincoln Center, the Barden
Bellas enter an international competition that no American group has
ever won in order to regain their status and right to perform.

Pitch Perfect comes back with a sequel, directed by Elizabeth Banks.
Everyone is familiar with these characters by now and we all wanted to
see what could happen to them after the first movie. So the good things
in this acapella world aside, now we are witnessing those characters
growing older and becoming real people. This film allows us to spend
more time on characters that people love, to tell more of their stories
and to see where these women be at three years later. While in the
first one it was more about coming together, bonding and being
freshmen; this film mainly deals with the notion of graduation as their
in majority in their last year of college, companionship they have in
college that will last forever as Bellas will always be Bellas, moving
on, breaking apart, leaving the nest, staring life right in the face
and going their separate ways. However they find themselves right back
where they started: as underdogs of acapella. There are a lot going on
this time, plot- and character -wise. Some endearing elements were
taken back from the first film such as the romance between Beca and
Jesse, that keep all the component in harmony as they are settled
characters. Indeed they are a nice balance to the melodramatic aspect
of the movie, grounded to the real stakes of this world. Yet once again
Fat Amy, starring Rebel Wilson, is very charismatic. She embodies a
confident woman that never thinks about her size at all. Proving that
your body type doesn't determine your fate in life. Giving her a real
love story with Bumper is such a good idea as she really deserves it
and both actors have a great chemistry together. John Michael Higgins'
character smoothly delivers his misogynic lines such as "Let's hear it
from the girls too ugly to be cheerleaders!", and casual racism
throughout the movie is even funnier this time around!

Moreover, new girls fit right into the dynamic of the group. They're
all the same characters but pushed a little bit further, they're a
little bit bigger, crazier and global. Hailee Steinfeld's character
represents what Pitch Perfect has become which is that kind of bonding
enthusiasm and likability. People will identify with the movie for
different reasons but ultimately for the joy and happiness it spreads.
Obviously men are not the targeted demographic of this movie - or
basically people who don't watch Glee. Nonetheless, if you just enjoy
music this film will get points with you. Musically, the songbook is
far hipper with a younger song selection. Executive music producers
J.Jordan and J.Michels have ensured that every performances are
note-perfect and soundtrack album ready; which I have to admit rather
detracts any sense of realism: it's not humanly possible to sing so
in-sync spontaneously. Plus, jokes are all amazing, not one falls flat.
You clearly know where the movie goes from the beginning but this film
is not here for an Oscar, it's just here to be fun and show some good
acapella. Finally, Banks has crafted a sequel that's edgier, sexier and
best of all more female centered than the first one. Showing that women
can be as funny as men, even funnier. So get over it, picthes! 

Overall Pitch Perfect 2 proved once again that acapella is not lame at
all, with a nerdy and inspirational movie and with much more
sophisticated layered music.
<|_=00=_|>
. . . may be stereotypical L Words, but PITCH PERFECT 2 tops its
predecessor as the most harmonious A Cappella flick ever. The Germans
shape up so well in the early going that their eventual showdown with
the Barden Belles seems sure to be a David versus Goliath affair,
fought entirely on a totally sandy shore this time. Put another way,
it's the Nazi Blitzkrieg against France. At my showing, film goers were
on the edge of their seats, fearing that the Na--oops, that the Germans
would win, or, worse, that the Belles would be called the winners on
some sort of technicality, when they had been clearly out-classed.
However, due to clever writing and innovative thinking, this sequel
produces a crowd-pleasing climax that seems not only plausible but
well-earned. Though the life of these Belles beyond their competitions
still seems a little too pat and Tinsel Townish, their Hollywood ending
on the World Stage is 100% satisfying.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't think that the first movie could be beaten but I was proved
wrong!! It was incredibly made and the story was great, you need to
watch this movie!!! Well done Elizabeth Banks!!!

Every scene was great and the movie was perfect, it was full of jokes
great songs, the new Bellas fit in well and the love story behind Fat
Amy and Bumper is hilarious, their public kiss was just crazy
hilarious, I think that there should have been more of them and their
love life in this movie as it would have made the movie even better!!
All of them grew up and they are better singers, Aubrey isn't her
manipulating self and it's great!!

Just great!
<|_=00=_|>
Summary: Bellas Barden made an huge opening mistake that cost them
their reputation as professional Capella group. In order to regain
their status as a group and friend they need to win World Championship
of Acapella.

In my opinion, I loved 100% this sequel due the excellent choices of
songs, hilarious scenes, goosebumps reaction of the final performance
that actually made me cried because I felt what they felt of the fear
of the tomorrow after graduation. Loved the voice of Emily Junk wow
speechless. The song Flashlight wow, i cried a lot, beautiful cover
song by Anna Kendrick. For me, I believe they need to leave this sequel
as the final closure of Pitch Pecfect. I recommend it without a 2nd
thought.
<|_=00=_|>
Pitch Perfect 2 was a pure perfection that will entertain you til the
end of the film. I rate it 10/10 for its funny humour and jokes. I
laugh at the jokes and didn't find it boring. It has full of life and
it gives a new texture to a musical film. Like High School Musical
meets Step Up movie. The mix of music and conversation was just equal
and there are no dead scenes at all. They blow us away with their
opening performance and the final performance exceed to the top. 

I enjoy this than the first one. It's funnier and the flow of the story
is not only focus on Becca but also to the whole group. Rebel Wilson
was the saviour of the movie. She acts as the clown and portrays her
funny awkward character well. I enjoyed her with the new girl Flo, who
will make you laugh with their punch lines.
<|_=00=_|>
I have ticked spoilers in case I accidentally include any. Overall,
this film was amazing and in my opinion is worth seeing. There are
plenty of jokes for all ages to get and laugh at. Some are a bit racist
but nothing worse than you hear daily. 

Rebel Wilson shines throughout the film with her cleverly done lines
and jokes that are memorable and hilarious. Elizabeth Banks did an
amazing job is directing this whole film and I hope in the future, she
does more films that are just as good.

The songs that are sung are popular songs so you will recognise all of
them and if your not tempted, you will probably sing along with them as
well as the rest of the people that you are viewing it with.

Overall, this film is great and is worth more than 10 but sadly it
stops there.
<|_=00=_|>
Because of PP1, i really expected a lot from this and the good thing is
that they really turned out good. MOVIE, The funny scenes and
everything was great. My favorite scene was when Fat Amy sang solo haha
fun. WATCH IT EVERYONE! Pitch Perfect 2 is a 2015 American musical
comedy film produced and directed by Elizabeth Banks and written by Kay
Cannon. It is a sequel to the 2012 film Pitch Perfect, which was
loosely adapted from Mickey Rapkin's non-fiction book, titled Pitch
Perfect: The Quest for Collegiate A Cappella Glory. The film centers on
the fictional Barden University and The Bellas, an all-female acapella
singing group. The film features an ensemble cast that includes Anna
Kendrick, Rebel Wilson, Hailee Steinfeld, Brittany Snow, Alexis Knapp,
Hana Mae Lee, Ester Dean, Chrissie Fit, Kelley Jakle, and Shelley
Regner as The Bellas. It was released on May 15, 2015 by Universal
Pictures.
