
Oh man, where to start with this one. I went in to the movie not
knowing anything about it, aside from that it is about a missing girl
and her father who sees her in another world. The first 20 minutes or
so were okay to me, interesting, scene- setting, and at times
emotional. The family was actually nice to see all together and the
initial panic of their missing child felt real.

Then things went downhill, and very quickly. Once Mack enters the shack
and travels to the other world, I quickly lost interest. Let me start
by saying I have no issue with Christianity or any other religion for
that matter, so long as it doesn't harm others. That being said, the
entire remaining film length felt like one big "God is great and always
loves you" chore to sit through. Another reviewer here said it felt
like a big long advertisement and I couldn't agree more. The excuse of
having evil be its own force that god can't interfere with felt lazy,
and meant only to reaffirm ones belief that god can do no wrong. Every
single lesson the film tried to teach felt WAY too ham-fisted and
forced. An example that springs to mind is when Mack is made to judge
others. He ends up having to choose one of his two children to send to
heaven, while the other is sent to hell. He is made to pick between two
people who have done no real wrong and told that one must burn. This is
supposed to make the viewer see how difficult it must be for God to
judge any of his children (who he loves very much), nevermind how many
little girls they murder. The whole God world portion of the film felt
like it was just there so people could stroke each other off to the
idea that they are loved by God, he heals all, and that we must trust
in him that everything happens as it should. Watching this movie made
me feel like I was sitting in class on a bright sunny day, wanting to
be anywhere except in my seat, but instead of learning anything, I was
just preached at for nearly 2 hours. 

There were a few moments in "The Shack" that felt as though they could
have been truly moving and emotional, but came across as stale and
forced. One particular interaction is between Mack and his father. I
was ready to feel real pain at their meeting, but a vast majority of it
was squashed in part by poor acting on the father's part, and again,
ham fisted shoehorning of the re-occurring themes. As such, the times I
felt emotion could have been real tear jerkers, but came across as flat
and unconvincing

All that being said, the movie was visually quite gorgeous. I loved the
whole camping, forest, lake, snow and mountain visuals. They were
pleasant and beautiful, but not forced upon the viewer in an
overbearing way. The weather was a bit too emphasized in my opinion,
but fitting in their themes. There were also some good quotes and
humour sprinkled throughout the length of the film.

I would strongly advise against watching this film as it's the only one
I've ever seen in theaters that made me so badly want to leave. If it
wasn't for my girlfriend beside me, and the two elderly ladies blocking
us in, I would have been out of there with an hour left on screen. At
least it was on half price movie night.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are spiritual, but not religious, see this movie. If you are
religious, see this movie. If you have suffered a great tragedy or
loss, and you are in pain, see this movie. If you have tried to make
sense of spirituality and religion but could not, see this movie. It is
full of wisdom and metaphor and not your standard religious dogma. It's
the best spiritual movie I have yet to see.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a regular church goer, nor did I have high expectations for
this film at all, and I do not cry in films, but this movie made me
ball. Most Christian films fall flat and can be subjective, but this
was different. I knew people who were fans of the book and highly
anticipated the film, but seeing it is not a movie, it is an experience
not to be missed. The values of forgiveness and true faith are
challenged and as the viewer it was overwhelming. Better than any of
the Oscar nominations this year.
<|_=00=_|>
If you enjoyed the book--you will love the movie. The movie addresses
the ageless philosophical question, "Why does God let bad things
happen?" It presents some theology in an unorthodox fashion--but not a
heretical one. I found it more inspiring than Narnia--which I dearly
love. The film follows the book closely, but not 100%. As a film and
story it's not perfect--but it's very close. If you have an open mind,
I suggest you see it.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a wonderful family film. Here's a tip for Hollywood. My friend
and I go to a matin√©e pretty much every week. There are sometimes, at
most, a dozen, sometimes a half dozen, people in the theater. For this
one? The room was a good half full. Now tell me why Hollywood insists
on producing nasty, foul, poorly-written and acted pieces of trash all
the time? Really. Anyway, this one gives you so much to think about.
There are several instances of symbolism in this picture that took my
breath away, that brought me to tears. Well written, well-acted, this
one is so worth seeing. I am anxious to see it again and trust me, that
isn't often the case. I took away from that theater a new feeling and
I've thought about several of the lines of dialogue many times since.
The truth and the trust of this picture will stay with you. I know it
did me. I am always surprised by Tim McGraw. The man can surely sing,
but he can also act. He's a natural. Octavia Spencer seems to be in
about every movie there is lately - well, not quite but still -
however, there is a reason. She is wonderful. She brings her role to
life every time. And she most certainly did in this one. Trust me, this
is one you want to see. Take your family. Take your friends. Or go
alone. Doesn't matter. Just see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't hate Christian films, "Midnight Clear" was a great film, and
because it was a low budget Christian film, Stephen Baldwin's portrayal
as Lefty was ignored for any award consideration. 

But I hate stupid films that refuse to take the path of proper
resistance. Case in Point:

So you're in a shack w/ God(s), your daughter was murdered by a serial
killer THAT'S STILL OUT THERE LOOKING FOR MORE VICTIMS, and not once,
not freaking once do you ask God "Where is he?"

This is where the movie fails. It would have been far more interesting,
more challenging, and a better experience if the issue wasn't rehashed
16th century philosophy and instead, whether God would answer that
question (Knowing the main character already off'ed his dad in the
first 10 minutes of the film, and so was certainly capable of ridding a
child killer).

Nope, 90 minutes of talking and nothing more. Die hard Christians will
eat this up, moderates not so much.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit that I had no idea that Sam Worthington has the acting
chops that he proved to have in this movie! I found the movie to be
uplifting and inspirational and very earthy in dealing with some dark
topics. It walked me through a path of forgiveness and grieving and how
to get to the other side using my brain in a way that I don't think I
processed before. This really is a very entertaining and fun way to
show how to get there in a very compassionate way. 

It's just a really good movie with a lot of really great messages. I'm
going to go see it again. I hope everyone sees it at least once
<|_=00=_|>
I loved the book, and therefore was very interested to see the movie
production. I thought the movie followed the book as closely as I've
ever observed before...while there are differences, the essence of the
message, and desire of God to have a personal relationship with each
one of us - came through. I thought the casting was well done, and the
visual translations of the book's imagery close to how I "imagined" it
in reading. Thank you for bringing this book to the big screen, and I
hope many find hope in Jesus, outside of religion.
<|_=00=_|>
I never thought I will appreciate movie genres like this.Lately I have
been watching sci-fi, suspense and romance themed movies. At first I
have no plan of watching this movie, but my attention was caught when a
friend of mine told me what was this all about. I must say, the movie
was "divinely crafted". This was the first movie that really punched my
ego and played my emotions. Some parts of the movie can rip your soul
and enlighten you about the divinity of God, the nature of life, the
circumstances that we do not understand. The story was beautifully and
intricately written, absolutely.

If you watch the movie, you will really feel that God was there, in
front of you, talking to you, loving you, giving you ideas that
encompass human comprehension.

"Why does it have to happen?, why do we have to suffer?, If God does
exist, why wont he show then?", these are questions common to us,
surely you have asked these questions yourself.

If you are that person who questions the incomprehensible course of
fate, circumstance and life, this movie is for you.
<|_=00=_|>
For real.

45 minutes in and my lids went droopy. An hour was all I could take.

Forget the fact that I am a believer. I didn't enjoy this film not
because it didn't frame my belief system appropriately (it did
actually), I didn't like this film because it is just plain dumb. I can
not accept or rate a film favorably just because it reflects my own
beliefs. It actually has to be a well developed story.

It isn't. 

You'll have more fun sitting in a broken lawn chair watching a tire
burn in an open field.

My first problem was the folksy and assuming narration that takes place
in the first 5-10 minutes. It was completely unnecessary and
condescending and made me feel as if the director assumed we'd be too
dumb to follow the plot.

Next was Sam Worthington's character 'Mack'. Worthington has been in
some impressive big-budget flicks but he totally bombs here. The
emotional range he exhibits barley moves the needle and he speaks
virtually all his lines slightly above a gravely whisper.

I wanted to slap the guy just to get a reaction out of him. His 'strong
silent type' portrayal bit wore me out fast.

A close third was the ridiculously clever dialog Mack has with his
children and pals before the tragedy of his youngest daughter being
taken. Nobody in real life talks like that, especially not children,
and I always find it tremendously irritating. This type of script has
never once helped me to suspend my dis-belief.

Octavia Spencer's portrayal of God or 'Papa' was the final straw. Papa
always looks very pleased with herself and bemused by Mack's troubling
questions and can only answer back in riddles or questions of her own
with a big fat sickening smile.

That's when I said 'That's it' and walked out of the nearly abandoned
theater (there were only two other customers) and into the early
afternoon daylight.

Slow as a snail, dull, uneventful, and as I said before, just plain
dumb.

The only people that are going to rate this film favorably are
terrified of making God mad. Yeah, well He's had a load of me over the
years and I'm still here.

You could never get me to watch this again.
