
I was a backer of this movie on Kickstarter that got a online viewing.
Zach Braff has created a beautiful movie, something realistic that many
can relate to. I have no idea why people would give this such a low
rating, even if it's not your cup of tea you can not deny the movie of
what it deserves, it is a great film.

I laughed and I cried. Wish I Was Here touched me on such a emotional
level mainly because I had to watch my Father die of cancer like so
many people in this world have had to. And I could relate to the
character Noah (Josh Gad) that played Zachs brother in the film.

The performances were great, especially by Mandy Patinkin who just BLEW
me away. His acting class. The depth of each of the characters in this
movie was amazing, and this is the reason why so many people should be
able to relate to at least one of the characters.

I'm not much of a writer, nor am I a reviewer, in fact this is my first
ever on IMDb, but I felt compelled to write about it to help give this
movie the respect it deserves. So glad I invested in this movie and
helped make it happen. If you are looking for something that will tug
at your heart but also make you laugh, then go and see it if you get a
chance, you won't regret it. Will be watching it again as soon as I
can.
<|_=00=_|>
In my opinion, the critics have it all wrong with this film.

"Wish I Was Here" from director and writer Zach Braff ("Garden State")
is another terrific film that deals with real life issues that most can
relate to. Not only does Braff's direction capture Southern California
and human emotion quite well, his screenplay is witty, smart and deep.

To top it off, Zach Braff's performance as a 35-year-old father,
husband and struggling actor is terrific. He works well with his
supporting cast including Kate Hudson, in her best performance in a
long time, Mandy Patinkin, Joey King and Josh Gad. 

If you are looking for a film about self discovery topped with comedy
and deep human emotions, then give "Wish I Was Here" a try and ignore
the critics. This may be one of my favorite films of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
Viewed at Kickstarter pre-screening in Toronto:

Although sometimes dragged down by the sheer weight of it all, Zach
Braff's "Wish I Was Here" is a massively heartwarming, enjoyable, and
refreshing tale of love and loss which is sure to tug at your heart at
one point or another. 

Even though it's been criticized for being "indie" or "hipster," the
film features less of those "genres" clichés as Braff's previous film,
"Garden State," or even some other films such as "(500) Days of Summer"
and "Away We Go" - it feels much more "mainstream." It relies a bit
more heavily on comedy than it does drama which makes it an easier film
to just throw in and enjoy, but when the tense parts do come, they'll
be sure to move you.

Including all of Braff's usual suspects such as Jim Parsons, Michael
Weston, and Donald Faison, the film boasts incredible performances by
both youngster Joey King and veteran Mandy Patinkin.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't listen to the critics. Zach Braff's new movie is actually very
good with a lot of heart and emotion to it. In some ways, it surpasses
Braff's other movie Garden State. You can tell this is a movie that he
wanted to make for a long time. Whilst Garden state was a more
autobiographical movie, this is more of Braff making you go on an
experience . It somewhat reminds me of Lost in translation. There's not
really a plot of kinds but is like going on some sort of experience.
It's really about the relationship between the character of Aidan Bloom
(Braff) and his family and not much else. Also, like Lost in
Translation it has many comic moments due to the comedic talent of its
two main stars. Throw in some entertaining cameos from Braff's Scrubs
co star Donald Faison and Jim Parsons and you have a well rounded
movie. If there's one "indie" film you have to see this year, go see
Wish I was here. By the end of it, you'll be glad you were there.
<|_=00=_|>
Zach Braff's Kickstarter-funded Wish I Was Here is a strange, confused,
and more than occasionally profound and moving film about family, life,
relationships and death. The film tells the story of Aidan (Braff), a
35-year old struggling actor who is forced to pull his kids out of
private elementary school when his disapproving father, Gabe (Mandy
Patinkin), informs him that his cancer has returned and the tuition
money needs to be put towards treatment. Unable to afford the
prohibitively expensive Jewish school the devout Gabe had since
bankrolled and unwilling to risk their development in a lackluster Los
Angeles public school district, Aidan begins homeschooling his children
while his wife, Sarah (Kate Hudson), continues to "support his dream"
by toiling away at a mundane data entry job. What follows is a series
of episodes in which Aidan imparts life lessons onto his son and
daughter (Pierce Gagnon and Joey King) as he examines his own path, all
the while coping with the impending loss of his father. 

As in the case of his previous film, Braff's latest foray succeeds in
exposing something decidedly truthful about a particular phase of
adulthood, albeit in a peculiar, meandering fashion. While 2004's
Garden State explored the unexpected struggles and complexities of
journeying home, Wish I Was Here is a warning that things aren't any
simpler once you're there. Stuck between what he wants for himself and
what his family needs from him, Braff's Aidan represents a generation
that was raised to do what makes them happy, but is now being told that
that's not good enough. Whether it's from his father, his wife or the
rabbis at the school, Aidan is frequently reminded there are other
people depending on him, and that striking out at audition after
audition is far from a sure fire way to instill confidence, let alone
put food on the table. Naturally, then, one of the key conflicts the
film flirts with is the question of when, if ever, should dreams be
allowed to die? The resolution here is somewhat unsure of itself, but
maybe that was Braff's intention: what is it to be in your thirties if
not transitional and restless, constantly oscillating between living
your life for yourself and suddenly having to fragment it for the sake
of the goals and well- being of others, namely your spouse and
children. This is a valid argument, to be sure, but unfortunately this
is also part of the reason why much of the film's comedy doesn't
totally land, as the audience is forced to feel severely concerned for
the future of Aidan's kids given his stubborn dedication to his career
and inability to provide a semblance of security; at times it even
feels like he's less a father and more a cool babysitter going on
adventures with someone else's progeny. 

Similarly, the arc of Aidan's marriage seems to lose velocity and
direction over the course of the film. Save for one early scene where
Sarah expresses disappointment over having children so young and
another involving some washer/dryer-assisted coitus, her role in the
story as far as Aidan is concerned is to serve as an obligation for
which he is supposed to be responsible. Their union and her character
in general, for whatever reason, lack substance and take a back seat to
Aidan's educational jaunts with their kids. 

For all its shortcomings in developing Aidan's relationship with his
wife and children, the film undeniably delivers on the storyline with
his father. Patinkin plays his character phenomenally despite spending
most of the movie in a hospital bed. Hudson, too, delivers a
surprisingly genuine performance and in one particular sceneprobably
the best of the entire movie trades tear-soaked lines with Patinkin to
the point where it's impossible to tell who's stealing the scene from
who. It's a shame the story failed to give her more to do, choosing
instead to split screen time with Aidan's forlorn, Comic-Con-going
brother (Josh Gad) and a string of bizarre, heroic fantasy sequences
plucked from the recesses of Aidan's childlike mind (coincidentlyor
perhaps notthe Braff-produced documentary on the development and
distribution of video games also hit theaters this weekend). The
narrative purpose of these departures isn't completely lost on the
viewer, it's just unclear why they need to trump the more compelling,
real-world drama. 

Nevertheless, the emotion of Wish I Was Here imperceptibly builds as we
watch Gabe gradually and peacefully come to terms with his mortality
and seek reconciliation with his sons. Without divulging too much, his
final scene in the film is a powerful, timeless admonition to
experience the beauty and tragedy of life each and every day we're
graced with the opportunity to participate in it. At a time when it's
impossible to ignore the disturbing and inexplicable loss of life all
over the world, Braff's charge to the audience seems eerily
appropriate: for us to be the lead actors in our lives and not just
spectators in the crowd, because whether or not we've prepared
ourselves, it could all be over before we even knew it began.
<|_=00=_|>
Admittedly, this is the first Zach Braff film I have seen. I only saw
one trailer for the film, and it immediately intrigued me. I did not
hate this film, but I also did not love and found myself in a lukewarm
middle ground. For everything I liked, there was something I did not
like.

First off, the story. The story as a whole deals with living life and
dealing with death which was pulled off fairly well. However, there
were several things in the script that I feel like took away from the
film and the story Braff was telling. One of the those things were the
laughs or lack thereof. 

The script thinks its wittier and funnier than it actually is with most
jokes missing that hitting. The movie also thinks it's deeper than it
actually is. Maybe that's just Braff's style, but to me it seemed like
it was more style over substance.

I did really enjoy the soundtrack for the film and Braff gave a good
performance as a 30-something-year-old treading the water in his life.

I will definitely give Braff's future movies another shot and will see
Garden State soon, but Wish I was Here was just not as good as I hoped
it would be.
<|_=00=_|>
I for for one really enjoyed this movie. I saw it at a screening in
Toronto. If you were a fan of Garden State you will love this movie. 

The cast was superb! Especially Joey King (Grace) and Mandy Patinkin
(Gabe). They literally stole the movie. There was not a single bad
actor in the movie. Small cameos by James Avery and Donald Faison added
great comic relief. After the movie we had a Q&A with Zach Braff and he
informed us that this was James Avery's last role on film and left us
all with hilarious little improv line. It was very funny. 

I highly recommend this movie for anyone who is a Zach Braff fan and
wants to go out for a movie that is an emotional roller coaster with
great visuals, solid acting and of course the great comedy of Zach
Braff.

The movie had great comedy and very real story line.

A+++++
<|_=00=_|>
What is that Zach Braff can't do? Nothing. He can write, direct and act
perfectly. Wish I was here is a perfect story that proves this. The
movie starts with the childhood dream of two brothers which was to be
great and how it is realised by them in the end. The actual problems of
family, dreams , expectations are all beautifully depicted. It has its
moments, great moments. Not meeting the hopes of a father, a not so
ambitious brother, religious children, the wife who works to support
the family and the guy who still pursues his dream to be an actor.

Satisfaction, creativity, hope and living your dreams are the words
which you will get familiar with in the end.

The music is alive and amazing. The movie has a voice and it is the
most important part of telling a story.
<|_=00=_|>
I understand that it's hard to get any acclaim trying to swim against
the IMDb currents, and anyone who says this movie sucks is instantly
named a moron and an utterly incompetent person who knows nothing about
the cinema. Also, people have hard time understanding what moves other
people to express their discontent about a movie and not just shut the
f**k up. The point is, if those who found the movie to be well below
par don't say anything then the people who come here for some insight
on what the movie might be would only see one side of the story. So
here i am, trying to actually elaborate the reasons of the 4/10 rating.

Anyway, this movie starts and ends with some not-so-deep message, like
"When we were little, we pretended that we were the heroes, ones who
save the day. But what if we raised the bar a bit too high? What if we
are the regular people, ones who get saved?". Don't know what sort of
epiphany the screenwriters smoked to use this as a portion of wisdom
fundamental for the movie and around which the rest revolves, but they
were spot-on about one thing. This movie is all about pretending.

I don't even know where to begin, so shallow this movie is. The
characters, their dreams or problems - absolutely nothing i could feel
for. "Oh, my dad's not gonna pay for my kids' private school, and i'm
so broke because i sit on my ass and jerk off on some porn on my
MacBook while pretending that i would become a super hot actor"? Is
that supposed to be something people relate to? Or maybe "Omg, my
cubicle coworker makes penis jokes, i have to tell everyone"?
Seriously, these guys live in a goddamn California, and the main guy's
so called loser brother lives in a trailer with a view a billion people
would kill or even die for. The guy's dad fails to send a check for a
damn private school because he got a f**king cancer - and the guy's
biggest problem is that he would have to care for his dad's dog?
Really? Is it me, or 5 year old kids in some less well-fed countries
than US are more adult than these guys? All that people do in this
movie is pretend their lives are so important and full or such dire
problems, and we are expected to drown in tears watching them moan
about it or clench their tiny fists in attempts to actually do
something that counts?

Just because we are being shown a bunch of losers comforting each other
and a soppy music is playing doesn't mean that the movie's good. The
only thing that was remotely good in it is the main guy's dad
character. At least he had something really valuable to lose, and he
accepted it with dignity and not pitying himself.

It would be different if the movie was actually having a fun at itself
and showing the characters as a bizarre freak show they are. Instead,
we are having some self-indulgent life lessons from those who obviously
know sh*t about life. Apparently, that's exactly how the
director/writer/main actor Zach Braff wants to position himself. Just
like his character, who by some weird twist of fate landed a teacher's
job at some acting school, while having a dandruff commercial as an
apex of his own acting career. Keep it going, pal, i'm sure we have a
lot to learn from you.
<|_=00=_|>
This film, anticipated as a "sequel" to Garden State(it's not at all,
stop calling it that) only shares some similar elements to it's
predecessor yet doesn't really maintain any of the charm. 

On a technical level, it's really well put together and amazing for
being a Kickstarter project.

The biggest issue with this film is that they simply did not put enough
effort into actually writing something that was coherent nor providing
any artistic merit. 

It's all style and virtually no substance which causes it to eventually
lag throughout, what seemed to be, the second act. This style easily
worked with Garden State given that it was a film about feeling aimless
in life, however it doesn't work the second time around. There seems to
be a lot of story lines that don't really go anywhere or provide
anything to the main plot and the fantasy sequences serve NO purpose
whatsoever. It's a lot like an artificial sweetener in that it tastes
good at the beginning but ends up leaving a weird taste in your mouth.
