
"As Above, So Below"

I pondered this film for some time now. I've been trying to understand
why it's done so poorly for the critics (not that that affects my
opinion about a film). But I just didn't understand how we could have
such stark differences in opinions about this film. I've heard it
called, chiched, forced, just like all the other found footage films in
this "saturated genre". And I thought none of those were true about
this film. Save maybe "forced" in some moments.

Where to begin with this convoluted breakdown. The film clearly had
some absurd qualities. First and foremost is the painfully contrived
female protagonist. A mid-twenties girl who is fluent in 4 languages
and 2 dead languages and 2 PhD's. Oh and a black belt in Krav Maga. She
was beautiful, adventurous, intelligent, brave. Really? Too much. Waaay
too much. HOWEVER. I know why they did it. For the sake of the story
they needed a character who could do all of those things. The solution
to this would've been simply to cast an older person. But that wouldn't
cater to the targeted audience. They needed a full cast of young 20
somethings. There were other small things that were a little far
fetched. Like "oh they conveniently had enough cameras for everyone and
they never broke or got water damage." Of course. For the sake of a
film in this type of genre to continue that had to be the case. 

First I would like to debunk the myth that the "found footage" genre is
saturated and overdone. Let me think of a couple memorable found
footage films: "The Blair Witch Project".... "Paranormal
Activities".... ummmm..... "Cloverfield"? I mean that's really all that
stands out to me, but I'm not an avid horror fan. Maybe "Quarantine".
The point is if you wanna complain about over done genres maybe you
should look more in the direction of "If I stay", or "The Maze Runner"
and movies alike. Or Exorcism movies. Oh. My. Gosh. Talk about
overdone. 

No other movie has beautifully meshed these two genres together.
Historical-Mystery- Adventure and Horror. Maybe "The Mummy" but even
that wasn't really going for HORROR. And maybe that's why I
particularly enjoyed this film so much. I love the Historical
adventures such as "Indiana Jones", "Laura Croft", "National Treasure".
And they painted an idea that I don't think has been done a lot or very
well. I've never seen a film that has painted Hell like they did. And
I'm gonna be real, I was very creeped/stressed/scared. I think it's
strongest point was it's middle act. It's build up to the finale was
very well done. I continually had a sharp pain in my chest until the
end. Also "George" was a pretty good actor. And the french people.
Change the main girl and you've got a great movie. 

In the end my reasons for why I liked it so much was that it was a
fresh horror, unlike.. oh... I dunno... the thousands of possession and
exorcism movies that come out every freaking year. And the concept was
really intriguing. 

As far as horror movies go? 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, there aren't a ton of good Horrors out there that are
truly original. I'm not saying this movie is one of them, but that lack
of originality shouldn't be the reason to give any movie a lower score.
Bringing fresh ideas to the Horror genre is difficult, mostly because
it's difficult to find new ways to scare people. There aren't a ton of
moments that make you jump, but I think the genre isn't really about
making people jump anymore. Audiences have gotten good at predicting
when these moments happen.

Where this movie does well, along with the rest of my favorite horror
movies, is atmosphere. For me, having a dark, creepy atmosphere is far
more important to success in this genre than getting people to leap out
of their seats. The shaky-cam, found-footage style isn't that much of
an issue for me either. Actually, I think still does a good job
portraying realism, despite being a bit disorienting and annoying.

Story-wise, I'd say it's pretty unique. How many other horrors
involving descent into the earth to find historical relics can you
think of off the top of your head? One, two maybe... How many horrors
can you think of off the top of your head involving a haunted house, a
possessed child or doll, exorcism, a guy with a mask, or a cabin in the
woods? 100? Not to say this is bad, but I'll gladly welcome anything
outside traditional horror settings and scenarios. It does dip into the
realm of ridiculousness as some points, but nothing too over-the-top
and far-fetched for the situation. The acting is good and the
characters are believable for the most part. I would have cleaned up
the final act a little bit more, but it was good enough to keep me
satisfied.

Not sure what the critics are bashing it for. If there is anything to
really complain about it's not this movie, but the genre itself. That
being said, lower your expectations and you might like it. I'd give it
a solid 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one I was excited for. The found-footage genre has been on life
support for a while now but this one had a cool premise in a great
setting - the catacombs. Seriously, that alone makes the movie worth a
watch if you're a horror fan. The unsettling atmosphere, the
claustrophobia, the creepy imagery, all while delving deeper and deeper
into the Earth.

I feel like this is a no brainer but if you're not a found-footage
horror fan then you won't like this one. You've seen it all before and
this is no different. All the usual plot devices and tropes that come
along with the genre are here - it's just executed with finesse. The
setting has a lot to do with it: It sets up the tone of the movie and
keeps that ominous vibe present throughout. There aren't many surprises
to be found here. It's a found-footage movie so it takes a little while
to get going, but once it hits its stride it becomes a truly exciting
adventure to be on. You really get the first person feel in this movie.
They don't need excuses to be documenting this - they're explorers.
We're just watching what they saw. That little sense of believability
goes a long way in helping the movie's credibility and effectiveness. 

There are few actual scares in As Above So Below. It has an atmosphere
similar to The Descent and keeps the slow eerie pace throughout the
first two acts of the film. That in my opinion is the greatest strength
of this film, and any others of its ilk - the focus on atmosphere
rather than shock horror or jump scares. In the third act, sh*t starts
to go down, and it goes down big time. It's not anything spectacular,
none of the film is honestly, but I was satisfied at the end of this
movie and that's more than I can say about a lot of the found-footage
movies I've seen recently.

A pleasant surprise in horror is good acting, and this movie thrives on
it. Even though it takes a while for the movie to kick off, it's fun
being introduced to these characters and starting this adventure with
them because they are convincing in their roles and they actually have
personality. You can identify with the two leads - one is the ambitious
adventurer, the other is the neurotic realist. Then there's the
eccentric and unreliable "tour guide" that introduces them on this
hellish quest. It's just a lot of fun to be a part of this journey
because none of us know what will be waiting for us on the other side.

Overall this is just a well made found-footage movie. It has the
chills, it has the thrills, and the added bonuses of good acting and an
excellent premise. Horror fans will certainly get a kick out of it, and
even if you're just looking for a midnight creep movie then As Above,
So Below will not disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>
Horror movies are rarely called 'great.'

When was the last critically acclaimed horror movie released? You'd be
hard-pressed to find anything since The Ring in 2002.

I haven't seen The Conjuring, Mama or Oculus but people say they've got
potential. I thought Drag Me to Hell was pretty good from 2009.

But the last great one I caught in theaters was Devil from 2010.

Which is also directed by John Dowdle. He wrote Quarantine (2008), as
well Â– another solid semi- recent horror.

As Above/So Below is the best horror movie I've seen in a long time.

First of all, it's shot on-location in Paris, which is a delight for
any fan of that city. Favorite sights like Notre Dame and Sacre-Coeur
are featured throughout.

The filmmakers use almost every shooting style. AA/SB is a mockumentary
about Scarlett (played by Perdita Weeks) a young archaeologist
searching for the philosopher's stone. Therefore much of the footage is
first-person, shot via headlamp GoPro cams.

Although I'm sick of 'found footage' it works better here. For obvious
reasons, the budget can't be massive, so this filmmaking style is
particularly suited to horror.

The story is also good, co-written by the director and his brother,
Drew.

There's more nuance than usual. The main characters use deductive
reasoning and historical analysis in order to solve riddles and
navigate the labyrinthine catacombs.

There's a lot of rebirth imagery, but I wonder just how far the
metaphor goes. Are the ribbed tunnels supposed to be reminiscent of a
vaginal lining?

Dichotomies drawn between light and dark, and up and down, are
intriguing and thought provoking.

The cast of unknowns delivers strong performances. It's tough to get
through a whole scary movie without poor acting or cheesy moments.

Apparently I'm in the minority because AA/SB is getting 13% amongst top
critics and 57% amongst the users on Rotten Tomatoes.

But I would encourage an open mind, because it's a cut above the rest.

If you're looking for a decent flick this weekend, especially if you
dig horror, you can do a lot worse than As Above/So Below.
<|_=00=_|>
"As Above, So Below" centers on two archaeologists and a group of urban
spelunkers who break into the catacombs below Paris. However, unlike
most naive tourists, they have quite the reason: they are in search of
an arcane philosopher's stone that purportedly holds the powers of
eternal life. Unfortunately, the group becomes trapped in a labyrinth
of caves that lead them deeper and deeper into the earth... and closer
and closer toward the gates of hell.

Directed and co-written by John Erick Dowdle, who was behind "Devil"
and the apocryphally unreleased "Poughkeepsie Tapes," "As Above, So
Below" is, at its roots, an action-packed adventure flick melded with
the makings of found-footage horror, and, although at times ridiculous,
I'd be lying if I said it wasn't wildly entertaining. The central crux
of the plot hinges on a mystical stone whose existence has been buried
(literally and metaphorically) by history, and the protagonist,
Scarlett (Perdita Weeks), the daughter of an archaeologist and alchemy
student, makes it her life goal to finish her deceased father's work
and find it. While this is admittedly fantastical and no doubt requires
a slight stretching of the imagination, the historical and mythological
aspects of the film still manage to be compelling none the less.

That said, the real hook of the film lies in its setting: les
Catacombes de Paris. To date, I only know of one other film that takes
place in the ghoulish settingÂ— the slightly underwhelming "Catacombs"
(2007). While both films are very different in plot, they both share
the same pull due to their unusually extraordinary setting. "As Above,
So Below" also admittedly borrows elements from Neil Marshall's "The
Descent," but those who call this film a "found footage rip-off" are
way off base. Both films take place underground, yes, and "As Above, So
Below" does appear to borrow a couple of sequential elements from
Marshall's film, but they are complete tonal opposites. There are
plenty of wild and fun elements in this film, including secret
passages, trapdoors, tunnels circling in on themselves, and ringing
telephones 500 feet under the earth, but all of it is done in good
taste and manages to evoke some solid scares and an oppressive
atmosphere. The hand-held camera-work accentuates the explorers' sense
of disorientation, and one gets the increasing sense of desperation as
they venture deeper and deeper into the belly of the beast.

The most obvious issue with the film is that it suffers from a
half-baked subplot surrounding the individuals' reliving/re-facing
demons of their past, which appears to have been an overarching,
perhaps even singular theme, but it fails to really ever take hold,
crumbling under the film's dynamic subterranean locale; quite literally
under the weight of the earth. I felt like this entire subplot(?) could
have been completely stripped from the script, and we still would have
had a solid, effective film here. I don't want to say that it juggles
too many themes as a result, because it really doesn't, but the
incorporation of this with the mythology of the film comes off as a
little bit harebrained. There is already enough Indiana Jones whimsy to
be had here as it is, so these sequences of characters facing past
demons are ultimately ineffective among the rest of the film's funhouse
attractions.

Even still, I found this to be a wildly entertaining thriller and a
good, claustrophobic two hours at the cinema. It is not a great film,
but it is a well made film, and is especially a delight for anyone who
is as fascinated by the Paris catacombs as I am, or just subterranean
depths in general. It's claustrophobic, fast-paced, and at times
genuinely spooky; at other times, it's absolutely silly and edges into
Indiana Jones territory, but at the end of the day, I thought this was
a solid concoction of fantasy, adventure-thriller, and supernatural
horror elements. Take it for what it is, and it's rightfully enjoyable.
6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I think people are hating on this movie way more than they should. Yes
it is a horror film and no i was not terrified crying in the corner of
the theater, but to say this movie didn't scare you it just seems like
you think you're this super macho man who isn't scared of anything
because you beat slender-man at 2 am in your parents basement. The
hand-held camera work is still a very cool concept in my opinion and
the filmmakers did an amazing job with this, primarily because they're
actually in the catacombs of Paris! Let alone i thought the actors did
a great job, and it was very believable and it the hand-held camera
work made you feel like one of the characters experiencing the whole
thing. No it was not the scariest movie of all time, no it doesn't have
some deep meaning, but for the 9$ i spent to go see it, i absolutely
loved it. Very cool movie in concept and it was done very well. People
who hate on this movie really just don't appreciate it
<|_=00=_|>
As I'm currently living in Paris and actually visited the Catacombes a
few days earlier, I had high hopes for this film. The setup of the
movie is promising as well, because the Catacombes can be quite scary.
Therefore, a lot of ingredients for a good scary movie.

Alas, it turned out to be nothing of the sort. A very far-fetched plot,
predictable scares, and the overly shaky hand-cam which is past its
prime were the culprits of my disappointment. Add to that some flimsy
romantic love story, and you got a mediocre film at best.

However, I do not want to give the impression that this movie was all
bad. There were some pretty decent scares despite their lack of
originality. I'm sure that if this movie would have come out ten years
ago, it could have been a major hit. But after Blair Witch Project,
Rec, and Paranormal Activity, it is difficult to insert a new angle
into the whole hand-cam-genre.

So if you just want a decent scary movie for 90 minutes while keeping
your expectations limited, Catacombes would be a decent choice.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm afraid I didn't enjoy this movie. I thought it started well enough
(with some reservations), but it became disjointed and confusing in the
second half.

The Scarlett character was interesting (a teenage frenetic Indiana
Jones on speed), but by the second half it was annoying me that she was
solving these complex puzzles under intense pressure in just seconds. 

The George character: someone in his 20s who is an Aramaic expert and
can fix medieval church clocks? GMAFB. What really annoyed me was when
-- on the spot and under great pressure -- he translated a difficult to
read text from Aramaic (?) into English, and it came out like a 19th
century poem, rhyming and with words like "twixt". WTF?

I thought I was following it all well enough but then the "worst fear
materialised" theme arose. Yikes. That came out of nowhere. Even when
the movie is over, it's not clear why that was added to the film. That
idea has been around an awfully long time, but it was just unexpected
and out of place here.

The various alchemical, mythological and religious references were all
a jumbled mess. The sunken cavern, the mass deaths, the gate to hell,
the sound distortion, the treasure room, the philosopher's stone, the
strange chanting women, the monk-like creatures, La Taupe, and so on.
There were quite a few other unanswered points. They were introducing
frightening elements for no reason other than to be frightening.

I didn't find it that frightening. I looked at my watch several times
during the movie. I groaned audibly a few times.

I didn't really like the shaky cam and the found-footage concept. It's
difficult to maintain that for very long. For those who died far
underground, how did their footage survive? Who was filming them at the
very end? 

It annoyed me that the characters were vocalizing so much. Yes, I know
we needed that for dramatic reasons. I hated it. People don't do that
in real life.

I'd give this movie about a 5 or a 5.5. I've toured the Paris
Catacombs, so I really wanted to like this movie. Sorry.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're into horror movies, you already know that a modern,
moderately unknown horror movie receiving over a 6 on IMDb is a good
sign. As usual, with the films I like, I think it deserves better.

This movie is different than others in this genre. It's well done and
the subject matter is perfect for a horror movie. Oh sure, there's
things you can pick apart if you're into dissecting every plot hole or
unbelievable character action. But if you just sit back and enjoy the
ride, I guarantee you'll find a movie that surpasses many in this genre
in sheer plot alone. The acting is good and the movie builds and builds
to a satisfying ending.

I've re-watched it over three times. Half the horror movies nowadays, I
turn off in 10 minutes.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "As Above, So Below", starring Perdita Weeks-Prowl, The
Tudors_tv; Ben Feldman-Mad Men_tv, Cloverfield; Edwin Hodge-The Purge,
Red Dawn_2012 and Francois Civil-Rosemary's Baby_tv, Frank.

This is a poor attempt at a horror movie. It's as if the Paranormal
Activity people are trying to branch out and try something different.
They use the hand held cameras, or even sometimes, a camera is strapped
to their heads to make it look like it's found video. The scares-if you
can call them that-are usually pretty lame; mostly it's people or
things showing up where they should not be. Perdita plays an
archaeologist that is carrying on with her father's work of finding an
artifact called the Philosopher's Stone. It seems he died before
finishing his work. Ben is a language expert that tags along to help
interpret the mysterious writings on the walls and Edwin is the camera
man that films everything. The trail leads to Paris, specifically,
underneath Paris and into the catacombs where dead people are buried.
Francois is a local that knows the catacombs and becomes their guide.
They come across a warning on a wall that says, 'Abandon All Hope, Ye
Who Enter Here' and someone says, 'We must keep going'. Someone later
on dies and someone else says, 'We must keep going'. Someone sees a
burning car in the catacombs that sucks one of them into it and someone
else says, Yep, you guessed it, 'We must keep on going'. It just wasn't
very good. It's rated "R" for violence and language and has a running
time of 1 hour & 33 minutes. I would not buy this on DVD. I would not
rent it, either. If you really want to see it, wait until it comes to
cable TV.
