
Well it was certainly very artistic and certain parts were just
gorgeous. However there is not much more to recommend Macbeth. The
worst part to me was how the dialogue was spoken, or not spoken since
it was mostly whispers and mumbles. Just mumbles and mumbles.
Shakespeare's prose just begs to be enjoyed but here I couldn't
understand what they were saying half the time.

Also they seemed to have no idea what to do with the talking parts and
just tried to invent weird action scenes to go with them that felt out
of place. Too theatrical is how I would describe this film. It tries to
be realistic and set in historical times, but it just makes the
theatrical stick out more in awkward ways.

Performance wise there is nothing to complain about as everyone did a
great job. Overall there are sparks of brilliance here but I just get
the feeling that the makers gave up before reaching the goal and the
final product is hence mediocre.
<|_=00=_|>
Fantastic adaptation of Shakespeare's iconic tragedy, Justin Kurzel's
drama is a stunning and well-crafted epic, featuring some unforgettable
performances from Marion Cotillard, Paddy Considine, Sean Harris and of
course, Michael Fassbender in the role of the savage tyrant, Macbeth.
Joining the other great Shakespearean masters such as Olivier and
Branagh, Kurzel has created a brutal and ambitious depiction, caught by
the awe-inspiring cinematography of Adam Arkapaw. Featuring glorious
locations across the bleak and wintery Highlands of Scotland, 'Macbeth'
is a film adaptation that even the great playwright himself would be
proud of.
<|_=00=_|>
As the shortest, sharpest and most stormily violent of William
Shakespeare's tragedies, "Macbeth" may be the most readily cinematic:
The swirling mists of the Highlands, tough to fabricate in a theater,
practically rise off the printed page. So it's odd that, while "Romeo
and Juliet" and "Hamlet" get dusted off at least once a generation by
filmmakers, the Scottish Play hasn't enjoyed significant bigscreen
treatment since Roman Polanski's admirable if tortured 1971 version.
The wait for another may be even longer after Justin Kurzel's scarcely
improvable new adaptation: Fearsomely visceral and impeccably
performed, it's a brisk, bracing update, even as it remains exquisitely
in period. Though the Bard's words are handled with care by an ideal
ensemble, fronted by Michael Fassbender and a boldly cast Marion
Cotillard, it's the Australian helmer's fervid sensory storytelling
that makes this a Shakespeare pic for the ages Â— albeit one surely too
savage for the classroom.
<|_=00=_|>
HAIL MACBETH, HAIL MACBETH, HAIL MACBETH.

WOW, that was a gripping, intense, beautifully shot film with
unforgettable performances and has to be the best retellings of not
only 'Macbeth' but all of Shakespeare's plays on screen. This movie did
an incredibly amazing job at sticking to the source material whilst
also incorporating a visually stunning cinematic style. It has a very
interesting cinematic style using slow motion effects and sped up film
in order to capture the emotions that the characters are feeling at
every moment. I was in awe at how beautiful this film was, the wide
shots of the landscapes were incredible whether there was something
going on or nothing at all. And i don't know where the cgi in this film
was if there was much at all because it all looks so incredibly real
and grand and it only adds to the scope of the film. The movie's
amazing cinematography is accompanied by many amazing performances
including two of the best performances this year. 

Sean Harris and David Thewlis were standouts in their supporting roles
as Macduff and Duncan and really displayed some of their best
performances but the show was stolen by the two leads. Michael
Fassbender and Marion Cotillard as Macbeth and Lady Macbeth were
absolutely mind- blowing and amazing and encapsulated these characters
as perfectly as you could get. They did incredible jobs at playing
these extremely complex personalities and led me to see only Macbeth
and Lady Macbeth, forgetting their previous roles. They pull of their
monologues so well that you are fully engaged in what they are saying
and can see that what they are feeling is not only expressed through
what they are saying but just from the expressions on their faces. And
Lady Macbeth's most iconic scene/monologue was represented so perfectly
that it was one of the best and most gripping scenes in the film. The
Oscar race is heating up and Fassbender and Cotillard have to be the
front-runners for Best Actor and Actress, truly amazing. 

Having read the play a little while ago i was able to still recall many
of the key events and know mostly what was coming up next. So hearing
plenty of familiar lines from the play and seeing these scenes was
incredibly rewarding. And reading the play i feel helped to follow
along with what is happening at all times. But for someone unfamiliar
with the story of Macbeth i think it might be a little hard to follow
at times. This is definitely not a film where you can look away for
even a minute and still know what is going on. If you miss a few lines
of dialogue or zone out during a scene, when you zone back into the
film you will probably be lost. The Shakespearean dialogue is probably
going to be a barrier for people to understand and if you can't
understand that dialogue you really won't like this film. But as i was
saying i felt that if i hadn't read the play i would have been quite
lost during the film. If you aren't paying careful attention and
reading into even the most subtle of hints some scenes will seem random
and you'll have no idea what is going on. So i think this is definitely
not for general audiences who just want to relax and check out a film,
it requires a fair amount of attention. 

So in the end, it is beautifully shot, intense, extremely well acted
and a great adaptation of this incredible play. Maybe not for the
general audience but any fans of the source material or lovers of film
should love this movie. - 8.6/10
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted so much to love this movie! A stellar cast, wonderful source
material, what could go wrong. What went right was the visuals; the
film looks great. Locations, costumes, cinematography, all are just
splendid. But all that is spoiled because most of the time you can't
understand what the actors are saying! Other critics commented on this
issue but I went anyway, hoping they were wrong. They weren't. And
there is simply no excuse. I've seen all these actors in other roles
and they know how to enunciate quite well, so what went wrong? It's
Shakespeare, people! The words matter! Now, I don't know if this was
sloppy sound editing or deliberate obfuscation, but the result was that
a movie that worked magnificently on every other level was totally
spoiled, a disappointment to viewers and I'm sure an embarrassment to
the cast and, I hope, the filmmakers.
<|_=00=_|>
peaceful candles on violent faces - rough vision of emotions deep -
motion matched the poetry - of wondering thoughts to keep.

a master piece combining theatre - excellent acting and visual art -
authenticity in dress and location - even Shakespeare would take heart.

Michael Fassbender made Macbeth, raw yet vulnerable which solved an
issue I always had with this character. How can a strong war lord
completely losing it? He portrayed Macbeth in a such a way that made me
feel, that he truly (twistingly) believed it was also for survival and
not just for simple ambition. He solved it for me.

At the same time, I always thought of Lady Macbeth as a conniving,
over-ambitious gold-digger. She still was yet at the same time I saw a
strong person who helped surviving despite her pain and loss. Marion
Cotillard's acting was so pure and emotionally complex, awesome.

A Scottish friend who loves his country's history, was pleasantly
surprised regarding the relative authenticity of highlander living and
praised the costumes: no tartan, but Roman type with leather/metal
battle uniforms which would be likely correct considering that Macbeth
lived in the 11th century.

The music was powerful, supporting the Shakespearian lines, subtly
giving them more impact. @Sales: subtitles would be useful even for
people whose first language is English ... although it would reduce the
magnitude of this visual spectacle. 

This films was everything I was hoping for when seeing the trailer. It
was a piece of art with moving pictures and words. Even if you don't
like Shakespeare, it's an amazing film. A very high 9 score !
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. What a complete and utter disappointment. From the moment that I
saw the rumours and the pictures popping up around the web that Michael
Fassbender was to play Macbeth, one of the most brilliantly written
characters of all time, I was all over the place of excitement. The
imagery looked stunning and anything that Fassbender touches becomes
gold. To follow it up with a brilliantly cast Paddy Considine as Banquo
and, in my opinion a little too young, Marion Cotillard as Lady Macbeth
I thought we were set for success.

The opening is harrowing, beautiful and brilliant and it really sucks
you in to their world. From the first moment costumes, props and
carpentry look great, cinematography beyond beautiful and it really
sets the mood. For nothing.

What follows is a drawn out, slow-paced, pretentious interpretation of
the text that loses it's insanity and rhythm completely. Now I'm all
for revisioning and reimagining, and there's a LOT of room for that in
the play Macbeth, so I was excited, but utterly disappointed.

It's an orgy of meaningless violence in slow motion, topped off with so
many close ups of blood and vomit that doesn't serve a purpose,
sprinkled with, what I can only imagine being a directors "vision" with
complete disregard of his actors talents.

The "redeeming part" is it's beautiful imagery, but everything else
pushes this movie down to the very bottom of my list. To cite Macbeth
himself, "It is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
signifying nothing."
<|_=00=_|>
Not sure what I just watched. Every scene was cold and lifeless. Lady
Macbeth could not decide if she were Scottish or English.... mostly she
was just shell shocked and incapable of any emotion, particularly the
passion she should have for her husband. Macbeth's castle, where he is
supposed to defend the king, is worse than a poor Mongol's circle of
yurts. Any wandering cow could have passed the tent entrance and gored
the king to death.

The most important scenes are turned on their heads for no apparent
reason and to the great diminishment of the work. The dagger doesn't
float. It is carried by a ghost over to the king's bed. The King's
ghost skips the feast perhaps the most important scene in the play -
clearly spelled out by the bard. No ghost occupies Macbeth's chair. The
director favors having a less important ghost at a side table, thereby
removing the force of King Duncan's presence and the cause of Macbeth's
madness. 

The most intriguing prophesy in all of Shakespeare - Birnam wood moving
to Dunsinane- - it goes up in smoke, literally. The forest doesn't
move, so there is no reason for Macbeth to fear failure, yet he falls
anyway, which makes it a pointless and inaccurate prophecy. So why not
cut it out? In the end Macbeth is replaced (as king) by a child killer.
Good does not prevail. The new king takes up a sword and goes chasing a
child across the moors, despite the fact that Shakespeare goes to great
lengths to establish Prince Malcolm as an honest and mild virgin. 

The film is beautiful, in many respects, but it is a scandal to say it
is Shakespeare's play - or that it is good.

Roman Polanski did a version that was true to the play. This version
felt like Peter Jackson took over and tried to make it more-better.

We are not amused.
<|_=00=_|>
The world of William Shakespeare can be a tricky road to navigate,
especially if you are not educated in his tediously difficult language
that arrogantly lies in waiting, sprawled across the pages of his many
plays. If you are neither a Thespian or English Literature Graduate
(which I am clearly not), you will struggle to understand the famous
playwrights narrative. It just might be easier to learn French or
German at the local community college than it is to painfully study
what Shakespeare is actually trying to say. I have seen just a handful
of the Elizabethan era writers work; the tragic love story of Romeo and
Juliet, Julius Caesar and the very puzzling comedy, A Midsummer Night's
Dream. Each time I came away scratching my head, my feeble brain trying
its best to piece together the events that had actually taken place.
Through all the confusion, I still found myself enjoying the fragments
of dialogue and story that made sense to me. This is why I was drawn to
another of Shakespeare's great tragedies, even though I knew I would be
sitting through nearly two hours of theatre without the use of
subtitles.

Macbeth is a well known story of ambition, murder, rage and tyranny but
what I was looking for in Justin Kurzel's interpretation was a
connection that an uneducated sloth like myself could get from a tale
that had four hundred years of retelling. I wanted to feel the
characters emotions and I wanted to visualise their world. I wanted to
be able to identify Macbeth's tragic blind ambition and lust for power.
More importantly, I wanted a tangible belief in the story being
presented to me.

Kurzel knows his audience well because he has directed one of the
greatest Shakespearean plays ever put onto film. The brutal and bloody
world that Kurzel has visioned, creates an authentic and powerful
atmosphere that never deserts the viewer, allowing the famous story to
illustrate itself effortlessly across the screen. Half the battle is
won. Accompanied by an outstandingly appropriate score sets the scene
for a film that would not look out of place amongst the very best movie
releases this year. The eerie and sombre acoustics help keep the
audience fixed to their seats as the savage tragedy of Macbeth unfolds
in all its brutal glory.

Michael Fassbender (Macbeth), plays the character to perfection and it
is his performance alone that makes it easier for the common man to
understand Shakespeare's historic language. Fassbender is thoroughly
engaged in his role and every word he delivers oozes emotion. Marion
Cotillard is equally impressive as the conniving Lady Macbeth.
Cotillard was an interesting choice to play the femme fatal, but she
has proved here that she can rise to any challenge. This performance is
a very colourful feather in a exceptional cap. Her Lady Macbeth helped
me to realise that she became somewhat of a victim to the King she had
created. "What is done, is done." I am quite sure that she didn't
envisage her warrior husband to become the tyrant that he became.
Adding to the list of superb performances is Sean Harris, the vengeful
and savage Macduff, who is hell bent on ending Macbeth's reign as the
Scottish Monarch. Great little cameos by David Thewlis (King Duncan)
and Elisabeth Debicki (Lady Macduff), along with brilliant visionary
direction by Justin Kurzel will give the uneducated hordes a chance to
witness one of Shakespeare's masterpieces.
<|_=00=_|>
Elizabethan play-write William Shakespeare staged plays of great
historical events. Necessarily limited by the stage-setting, these were
the masterpieces of carefully crafted words and speeches that we now
consider as Shakespearian English. Thus this reviewer considered the
film version of Shakespeare's Scottish play as perhaps being too wordy
and stagey to go and see. However, I was beguiled by the trailer, that
seemed to suggest lots of action and battles. Alas, this was not to be.
However, this dull, but worthy product, is a fine showcase for
Shakespeare, Scotland, and the performing thespians of the film.

This Scottish-themed film does open up on the battlefield. There are
some interesting scenes as the warriors prepare for battle and the
battle itself is shown well. (A later battle also has some interesting
two-sworded battle scenes). During the battle, witches appear, and make
a prophecy about the King of Scotland. The film tells the story of an
attempt to fulfil the prophecy and of the aftermath of that attempt.

The male lead is played by Michael Fassbender and the female lead
playing opposite him is Marion Cottilard. They are superb in their
roles and must have actually suffered hard for their craft. Location
shooting for the film was in the Isle of Skye in Scotland. This
reviewer has paddled in water there, and can assure readers that even
in the height of summer, it is like putting your feet into buckets of
ice. Yet, we have Mr Fassbender in water in a scene, and Miss
Cottilard, far from her native France, is seen scampering about
barefoot and lightly dressed. Bravo! it should be said that there is
little sight of the summer in this story. There are many, many, scenes
of bleak mountains and bogs and moorland. The climate is cold and wet,
with swirling fogs often covering the rough terrain. The scenes are in
fact very bleak and compare with those in the Viking film 'Valhalla
Rising' (2009).

Elizabeth Debicki, who also appeared in this year of 2015 in 'Everest',
here does a standout scene, as relevant to us now as it was in the era
it was set in. Sean Harris, who like Michael Fassbender, also appeared
in Prometheus (2012), here delivers a brilliant and powerful
performance. There is a scene in the 1995 Scottish film 'Braveheart'
where William Wallace is floored in shock when he encounters the
English champion. Here, in this film, Sean Harris, similarly has his
emotions plunged to the depths, more than once. His acting is superb
throughout the film.

David Thewlis seems to have an ability to really inhabit his roles. The
source material, (book), for the film 'Seven Years in Tibet' (1997)
seems to show he got the part just right. So too, for his OTT role in
the 2010 film 'Mr Nice' which again matched the source material in the
book of the same name. In this year of 2015 though, his performances
have seemed more subdued but still true to the source material. I found
his portrayal in 'Legend' to be fascinating. Here, in this film, he
takes a part and makes it very believable. The part he plays is very
like one today and he seems to play it like that too. There are some
obvious differences too in that role of course, but that is the essence
of the plot of this Scottish film. 

We also get good supporting roles from Paddy Considine, David Hayman
and Jack Reynor.

Much of the location shooting is on the Isle of Skye in Scotland,
though I did spot Bamburgh Castle too. Ely Cathedral is also featured.
The cathedral scenes are spectacular as are the castle interiors,
however the bulk of the film is shot in realistically grim
surroundings. Our thespians spend most of their time wallowing in blood
and mud, and the climate and terrain are both as gloomy and grim as the
storyline. The use of hand-held cameras does detract though. As do some
of the special-effects that take us out of the moment.

This film is a good introduction to Shakespeare and his Scottish play.
Political students can learn lessons from this story today, just as
they can from 'I Claudius'. For those interested in the subjects of
assassination, conspiracy, politics and statecraft, then the writings
of the Renaissance Florentine statesman and writer Niccolo Machiavelli
may also be of interest.

This film of the Scottish play serves as a good way to engage a modern
audience and as such has been a worthwhile project. 9/10.
