
After the many scathing reviews, I went to this film with very mixed
feelings. I certainly didn't expect serious Sci-Fi  after all, I had
seen the trailers  but I actually wasn't quite sure what to expect
(and I'm not sure I would have gone to see it at all, If it hadn't been
directed by Luc Besson). Well, maybe it's just because I expected to be
disappointed, but I was pleasantly surprised. 'Lucy' delivers a fast
paced, crazy ride from start to finish, and I'm frankly a bit shocked
so many people seem to hate this film with so much passion. Hadn't they
seen the trailers? I thought it was clear from the get-go that this
film was first and foremost meant as entertainment (and it certainly
doesn't pretend to be the new '2001').

If 'Lucy' were based on a comic book, I highly doubt people would be
criticising it as harshly as they are. Let's be honest: from a
scientific point of view, the stories of Captain America, Superman,
Thor, the Hulk, Iron Man, Spider Man and the X-Men are all
enthusiastically silly. None of these stories are even remotely
realistic - and they were never meant to be: that's why they call them
"SUPER-heroes". So how come so many film fans take the "10% of the
brain" premise so very, very seriously? I mean, this is Luc Besson:
'The Fifth Element' was just as over-the-top and most people seemed to
have really enjoyed it (at least at the time; maybe now it would also
get shredded to pieces for "lack of realism"). The way I see it, 'Lucy'
is simply Besson's take on the superhero movie (towards the end of the
film, the title character actually comes across like a fun, female
version of Dr Manhattan).

Granted, many aspects of 'Lucy' ARE very silly, but visually the film
is absolutely stunning and it at least tries to tell an original story
and throws in some very interesting philosophical (and yes: even
scientific) concepts and questions. So not unlike the films based on
Marvel or DC comics, this is a wild mix of Fantasy, Sci-Fi and Action
elements  and what's so wrong with that all of a sudden? If you watch
it for what it is  a fun, fast summer movie with inventive visuals  I
don't see why you wouldn't enjoy it. Quality-wise, this certainly isn't
'The Matrix' or 'Blade Runner', for sure (but hey: what is?), but
'Lucy' is still packed with enough creative ideas and great action
scenes to get your money's worth. Plus it features Morgan Freeman and
an absolutely gorgeous Scarlett Johansson.

So my verdict: It's rare enough these days to get an original
Fantasy/Sci-Fi tale with a decent budget in the first place  let alone
one for grown-ups with an R-rating. It may not be as good as it could
have been (and it does feel a bit rushed), but it is very far from the
catastrophic mess many critics make it out to be. As far as I'm
concerned, 'Lucy' is a fun, crazy ride from start to finish. 7 stars
out of 10.

Favorite Films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/

In an ideal world, movies would be made without the aim for a certain
rating. This article sums up why this is so important:

www.the-fanboy-perspective.com/the-importance-of-the-r-rating.html
<|_=00=_|>
This film has greatly polarized critics for its use of controversial
concepts. I am a scientist and of course this movie gives me mixed
feelings about its science. But I'm sure about one thing, that this is
fiction. I am able to watch a fiction movie, am I not?

Some people review this film negatively for its scientific value,
ignoring the fact that this isn't a documentary. What are these guys
comparing this film against? There is no comparison against real-world
science here. If somebody makes a film about black holes, I expect it
to be faithful to the latest research about black holes. If somebody
makes a film about the Sun, I expect it to be faithful to what we know
about the Sun. In contrast, a film about aliens can stretch our
suspension of disbelief a lot more, because we know no real aliens to
compare it about. And my my, how wide a range of alien species has been
spawned by the film industry in all its years! The main concept in this
film is equally flexible because it has been proved a myth years ago.
Everybody knows that, director/writer Besson knows that. These negative
reviewers miss the entertainment value of this film because of
something they were expecting (harmony to actual science) that was
never there since the film's inception.

So yes, some other people review this film for its entertainment value,
because we want to enjoy this "What if this myth was true" scenario.
And we are truly entertained. I loved how Scarlett Johansson developed
her character very well even when there was inherently not much to
begin with: an innocent girl with not further background than dating
some guy for a week and living in a shared apartment. Scarlett's
charisma, weakness, strength, and acting spill all over the place, even
during the most flat scenes of the film, even during the most
VFX-packed scenes of the film. Morgan Freeman is... well, Morgan
Freeman. Fantastic actor except for the fact that he's been typecast
into the wise guy role for like, 20 years. I like the ethnic diversity
in such a small cast. Not that they are trying to showcase it anyway,
but it's a nice touch.

The action pack is very good, the mafia pack is entertaining, and the
renditions of Inception, Léon: The Professional, and 2001: A Space
Odyssey are all cherished. Once again, the central myth is developed in
a very fun way. I believe this film has risked a lot in its
development, but for us who want to be entertained and have our
imaginations opened, this film delivers very vividly.
<|_=00=_|>
The film is not bad based on its technical merits. The lighting,
effects, and acting are all fine and actually Johansson is fabulous in
the first part of the film. 

What makes this movie so terrible is that it's attempting to make a
sophisticated statement, but it can't even keep its own logic straight.
There is no conflict; Lucy is so powerful and devoid of empathy that
the film devolves into total nihilism. She just gun battles and goes on
car chases because she has only 24 hours to download her brain for the
sake of... who knows? Humanity? So let's rush, because without that all
is lost for... humanity? But Lucy doesn't give an f* about anyone else.

What does a person beyond human logic act like? Since that's
impossible, I don't know, and apparently the director doesn't either.
Why does using more of her brain make her lose all capacity for empathy
or social logic? Don't know. 

It feels like the whole thing is just for the sake of itself. Her
powers and their progression are just not believable. Scene after scene
of gun violence without any moral lesson or conflict gets very boring.

This movie could have made some sort of intelligent comment on human
morality, the origins and purpose of empathy.... nope, instead it makes
the comment that gun battles are cool.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're expecting a character driven storyline or you're someone that
is unable to suspend disbelief for a couple of hours then this movie
probably won't be for you.

The storyline is nothing new and has been explored quite a few times,
it's basically the concept of are we more or can we be more than what
we are.

Whilst they used an idea about the brain that has long since been
proved nothing more than a myth it works to drive the concept of the
film. I do think with a little thought they could of made this a little
bit more believable though if they had just focused on being able to
use more of the brains potential rather than "capacity".

Anyway apart from the basic concept that we still do not really
understand our brains and what they are capable of everything else in
the movie is based a lot in the realm of fantasy. There was a whole lot
of things in the movie that could of been done better but even with all
those flaws I still found it entertaining.

The only thing that let the film down for me was the ending which even
though visually was probably the best part of the film it still felt a
little too generic and overdone.

There seems to be a lot of reviews on here that bang on about realism
and it being unbelievable etc but if you are going to rate a film on
that then recent films like Transformers and all the super hero movies
should be rated a 1 because hey a school student getting bitten by a
radioactive spider or super sized robots trying to overtake earth is
far more believable...

This film is a fantasy sci-fi with great visuals and while not
"realistic" or perfectly executed has a thought provoking concept.
<|_=00=_|>
Disappointing movie towards the end. Starts off well, everything makes
sense, everything is clever, logical and interesting. After a certain
point in the movie everything becomes ridiculous, unrealistic and not
enjoyable to watch. The idea behind the movie was good, execution was
not. The characters were also a little bit boring in my opinion. The
situation the main character found herself in had an array of
extraordinary things to do and take advantage of but didn't. Not a lot
out of the ordinary happened, main character worrying throughout and
not taking advantage/playing around with the situation she was in. If
you're a fan of logical "what ifs" like myself I would not recommend
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I think bad reviews come mostly from people who want to show other how
good their science is. Fair enough, this film starts from the premise
that humans only use 10% of their brains and Lucy can break this
barrier and reach a whole new level in human evolution. This leitmotiv
was quite smartly picked to raise interest,although scientifically
inaccurate. However this film excites the mind of those who REALLY know
physics and know how few limits there are in what we can achieve in
pushing our evolution through science to become indistinguishable from
magic. "Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from
magic." I personally enjoyed every bit of the movie and, as it took me
to a journey into the far far future, where humans can overcome their
humanity and become real Gods.

Enjoy this film and let your mind explore the impossible.
<|_=00=_|>
Obviously the main purpose of Luc Besson with this was initially to
please the audience. The poor scared girl who takes revenge on the bad
guys that hurt her. But with the ridiculous premise "what can we do if
we acquire the 100% of functionality of our brain" the movie tries to
be philosophical and ...fails miserably. What is the meaning of life?
The purpose of humans?

The problem is that Luc Besson's brain isn't capable to provide such
answers.

When Lucy's brain is at 20% she's starting to control ...tv signals!
It's obvious that the writer will hit a wall by his own brain
limitations. At 30-40% she has telepathic and telekinetic powers. Later
she travels back in...time, and the way she controls it is with...swipe
move as in a smartphone! What else is there? The writer couldn't think
of anything else! 

I am everywhere! It's now a cliché since Edgar in "electric dreams".
Johnny Depp has done it too! Well good for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Check the genre of this movie, it says SCI-FI, which stands for science
FICTION!! If I watched every sci-fi movie expecting it to correlate
with real life physics then there would be no point of the genre. All
these bad reviewers seem to be on the more intelligent end of the pole
but isn't cognitive enough to realize they're NOT watching a
documentary!!!! This is a good sci-fi movie, which kind of lets you
imagine what you could do if you knew everything and could do anything.
Obviously It's not possible because you would have to break the laws of
physics to even get near that point but it's still good to wonder.
Worth a watch if you like the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
F*** this IMDb rating. I haven't been this entertained in 90 minutes
since Pan's Labyrinth. Dawn of the Planet of the Apes gets 8 stars, and
everyone is attacking the science of this film... f*** off. This movie
is fantastically cool.

Remember, critics and joes thought Boondock Saints, Donnie Darko, and
Star Wars blew... yeah. Watch it for yourself. If you're a Luc Besson
fan, you won't be disappointed.

Bad-*** car chase, science-fiction, sex appeal my goodness, Morgan "the
man" Freeman, Chow Yun-Fat worthy shootout, visuals that will blow
your-effing-mind, and it didn't even take 2 sequels and a prequel to do
it. 

What happened to people that used to enjoy movies?
<|_=00=_|>
Scarlett Johansson proves beyond a doubt that she is able to carry the
lead actress role in this sci-fi action flick. The camera work and
narrative ambiance starts off marvelously. But around twenty minutes
into the movie everything starts falling apart as relentless and
repetitive force-feeding of pseudo-scientific and underdeveloped
philosophical gibberish is applied in a sad attempt to legitimize the
developing story line. If you manage to swallow the entirety these
factual misnomers you may suffer from having no education or sense of
rational thought and may also be eligible to blissfully enjoy the
ensuing turn of events. 

Have you ever felt at risk of becoming dumber by the process of
watching a movie? I regularly enjoy movies that violate laws of
physics. However, it is imperative that the movie's setting allows for
that to happen. Lucy doesn't. The parallel story line employs Professor
Norman (Morgan Freeman) as the scientific genius alibi. If you pay
attention to his "lectures" you may notice this is not science class
but rather something at the crossroads of a pseudoscience, scientology
and self-motivational course. At this point I should probably disclaim
that I am a molecular biologist by profession and proceed to tell you
that I was genuinely outraged by the audacious amounts of ignorance
displayed throughout this movie. 

Sitting at the theater this evening, my brain leapt in and out of sync
with the movie due to the constant realism glitches occurring under
false pretenses. For some reason I kept thinking of "The Doors of
Perception" by Aldous Huxley in which he subjectively describes the
immediate psychological effects upon ingesting mescaline and LSD. Such
psychoactive and hallucinogenic drugs actually work by switching on
cerebral neuronal pathways that by default (and apparently by good
rights) are switched off. This goes to prove the point that cerebral
activity in no way correlates with attainment of super-human powers.

The pharmacological effects that the fictional drug in the movie exerts
on Lucy (Scarlett Johansson) is irreconcilable with everything in
medicine and the story line is shamelessly based on these discrepancies
set in action as visualized by unlimited CGI artistic freedom: Wouldn't
the sensation of pain be expected to be augmented to excruciating
levels following a proposed 1000% increase of cerebral activity? Care
to elaborate on the accompanying moral deprivation that makes it OK to
kill or help people entirely on random, but first and foremost makes
her really narcissistic and sadistic? If Einstein dropped his pen,
wouldn't it still fall to the ground; Why shouldn't laws of physics
apply to someone who is allegedly more intelligent or aware? How can
increased intelligence allow Lucy  possessing no prior concepts of
cell biology or drug metabolism to figure out what is happening to her
in such detail? Why were the internment mafia thugs specifically
instructed not to kick Lucy in the lower abdomen, considering the
surgical procedure that had just been performed for the sole purpose of
drug trafficking? How can Lucy possibly benchmark her cerebral capacity
as a percentage? How can the final scenes of the movie where Lucy ad
libitum creates matter and baffles the professorial board with some
senselessly uttered line of thought be justified in any conceivable
way? Omnipotence, dinosaurs and a black hole USB flash drive to top it
off: are you serious?

The movie clearly begs the question: what is human and which aspects
and ideals of human nature are worth cultivating. But how can you
honestly care at this point as you contemplate whether to risk a
cerebral meltdown or run for the closest theater exit?
