
'Mike and Dave Need Wedding Dates' had some promise when the trailers
first came out. I honestly believed this film would capture the tone of
the first 'Hangover' movie, but something went wrong early on.

1. I know this film was based on true events, and I guarantee the true
events would have been far more entertaining than the ones depicted in
this film. For he most part, the movie has a strong opening where we
see how these two brothers party, but we also witness the aftermath of
their wild antics. Things move well enough till we get to the point
where they actually end up on Hawaii. At this point, things take a
tumble off a cliff.

2. Mike and Dave and played by Adam Devine and Zac Efron respectively.
These two make an okay pair as brothers, but Adam Devine (especially)
pushes the limit. Aubrey Plaza and Anna Kendrick are probably the worst
additions to the cast, cause they are terribly unfunny. You would
assume both Devine and Plaza would bring a certain level of comedy and
timing, but they unfortunately don't and the jokes are misplaced.

3. I'm not saying the movie is completely unfunny, but the most you get
are a few chuckles here and there. Efron and Kendrick are better actors
to star in a film like this, frankly this is below their standards.
This should have been a direct to TV or DVD movie which featured some
unknown/up-and-coming actors instead of bigger names filling the void.
The side characters are annoying as f#%k, which in turn lowers the bar
on the comedy.

The movie fails to redeem itself and it's only passable as maybe a
rental. No one should waste their time and especially money on going to
the cinema to watch this.
<|_=00=_|>
I love comedies. I watch a lot of them. Cute, silly, stupid, clever -
any. Some - good, some - bad, some - are really not so good.But this
was a whole new lever of terrible. The script sounds like being written
by 12 years old, but they usually don't use "f-word" as often. Who talk
like that, even in a comedy? As for comedy acting skills - the girl who
played Tatiana and Zach Efron are the only watchable there. There is no
excuse for this waste of time, money and good actors. I feel really
sorry for the girls and Zach. I guess, every actor has a film on their
resume they would rather forget about. This is definitely one of them.
I hope this is not the new Hollywood standard for comedies.
<|_=00=_|>
I like the 4 actors in the leading roles, and that was why I went to
watch this, even though I suspected it would be bad.

And yeah, it was bad. Not only the plot overall, where literally
nothing happened. At all. Basically, every scene, and almost every line
of dialogue was stupid and/or weird (and not the funny kind of weird).
IMDb has it classified as "Adventure, Comedy, Romance", but I saw no
adventure at all, and barely any romance; and the comedy in it was
like... well, a parody of a parody, or something like that. And believe
me, I am the type of person, who actually loves the "silly and cute"
type of comedies (for which I am often labeled as "shallow"). But this
was too silly even for my tastes. Most of the time it was just stupid,
rather than silly. And even the moments that were supposed to be cute
had enough cringe worthy elements in them, that the fun and that "aww"
feeling in them was ruined. And I'm not a prude. I have laughed at this
kind of humor before, and have had lots of fun watching movies that use
it. But it has to be done well. Here, it wasn't. The writers didn't do
a good job, period. Not even a decent job. It made those 4 actors look
bad and they (mostly) don't deserve it. I know they're better than
that.
<|_=00=_|>
It's based on a true story sort of. Essentially, it began with these
two single fellas whose parents complain to them that they're always
starting trouble at every party. So in order to stay in line, they are
told to find dates for their upcoming sister's wedding in Hawaii. As a
joke, they throw an ad up on Craigslist, their description for the
essential date looking something like this: 

 An excuse to get dressed up  Open bar & food all night 
Eccentric/downright dangerous bro-2-bro dance moves (may need to sign a
waiver)  Adventure  Mystery  Suspense  True Love

Royalties once our night's story is developed into a romantic comedy*

*if this happens (we estimate the chances at 85%) we refuse the right
to let Ashton Kutcher play either of our characters, however, we will
consider him for a supporting role.

Next thing they know, they get over 6,000 responses from girls who find
them attractive, leading to appearances in talk shows and a series of
mock-dates. Fox Studios even made the last part of their ad come true.
The unfortunate result is a wild and mean-spirited "comedy" that exists
for all the wrong reasons.

The two leading males, Mike and Dave, are played by the overly handsome
Adam Devine (Mike) and Zac Efron (Dave). Their dates are played by the
even more overly attractive Aubrey Plaza (Mike's date) and Anna
Kendrick (Dave's date). None of these four young stars are as funny as
you'd think they are, and they each resort only to screaming like drunk
bozos to spice up the sleazy screenplay. They're all unbearably
annoying to watch, Anna Kendrick in particular. The supporting cast was
equally as horrible, say for instance Sugar Lyn Beard, who plays the
soon-to-be-married sister of Mike and Dave. She's not exactly a "bad
actress," she just has this annoying high-pitched voice that doesn't
even sound that natural.

But that's not even the worst of it. No, the worst is yet to come.

There is no story, but rather a series of jokes that drag on and on and
on without a clear punchline. Within the hour and thirty-eight minutes
you'll need to suffer through, a girl falls off a roof and gets
seriously hurt, a building catches fire at a 4th of July party, a
grandfather dies at his birthday celebration, a girl gets hit in the
face by an all-terrain vehicle and is heavily bruised the day before
her wedding rehearsal, and all of these bits are intended to be the
most hilarious thing ever. But did I laugh? Well no, but the audience
in my screening were hysterical throughout the entire movie, which
makes me incredibly worried.

Emotional moments of redemption are attempted by the third act, but
none of them are earned nor appropriate. The crazy events and dirty
jokes all try to meet up in some sort of message about how life is not
about getting the big things. Yeah, right. Just the number of "should I
really be laughing at this" type of jokes glamorizes the romantic
lifestyle rather than attacks it. So therefore, the redemption that
this movie tries to get to is complete bull. In the end, Mike and Dave
Need Wedding Dates becomes exactly how it started as: a joke. It thinks
that funny is about being rebellious and mischievous, but there's no
way that has any affect in the long run.

Overall Grade: F
<|_=00=_|>
two adult brothers with the personalities of thirteen year old's must
find dates for their sisters wedding; what we get is tiresome
repetitive try - to - hard forced jokes that land flat. The dates are
annoying as hell, acting like female rap stars especially with their
speak. I had high hopes for this and as ALWAYS the trailer is
misleading. I laughed maybe three times and I cried once when I opened
my wallet, twenty bucks to take a nap. Well, it's cheaper than getting
a hotel. This was perhaps the longest film I've ever slept through. I
don't need to see hairy bush, this isn't 1977. The last twenty minutes
is soap opera drama and I tapped out, walked away and ripped my movie
ticket. I need a refund.
<|_=00=_|>
During the last 5 years, we have been seeing a boom of adult comedies
with female characters (such as Bridesmaids, Sisters or The To Do List)
which have "dared" to usurp the scatological humor usually reserved for
male characters. However, that subversion of gender roles isn't an
automatic guarantee of quality, as the horrible Mike and Dave Need
Wedding Dates proves so. That's a pity, because I'm an admirer of Adam
DeVine, Aubrey Plaza and Anna Kendrick. However, they weren't able to
do anything substantial with such a poor screenplay. Mike and Dave Need
Wedding Dates is one of those movies which employ vulgarity as an end
in itself, without having genuine humor in its screenplay. And the
least I say about the "dramatic" moments, in which the characters must
learn something, or mature, or assume responsibilities for their
actions, the better. In conclusion, the "female comedies" I mentioned
on the beginning of this review are much better options than this piece
of junk. However, Mike and Dave Need Wedding Dates tries it everything,
and that might work for other spectators. Each one will know his/her
affinity or tolerance for movies like this one. Good experience or
nightmare without an escape? That's a real life situation which should
be adapted into a film. But without Zac Efron, please (No! I almost
achieved not insulting him!).
<|_=00=_|>
Mike and Dave Need Wedding Dates is inspired by a true story of Mike
and Dave Stangle, in which they post an ad looking for dates for a
wedding. Hilarity ensues when their dates turned out to be not who they
appear to be.

From the poster and the premise alone, you should know that this movie
is going to be your typical comedy movie you watch while you were doing
something else, say getting high, background noise, or even better: 10
minutes before you get down with your date. Most of the comedy works
with zero context. I can see why this movie wasn't funny for some
audiences, but one thing the movie knows and does it well: it knows who
their target audiences are and they've done a pretty good job pandering
to them.

The movie has mediocre points at editing and scoring. The cast
chemistry is definitely undeniable, but their potentials are so much
wasted. All the lead actors have amazing comedic timing and can deliver
lines suited to their talents, but the script and the scenes just
doesn't show it. It's a shame since I watched this movie because I
liked all the lead actors in it.

However, the good points of the movie stopped right there. If you're
looking for a quality comedy, you might want to look somewhere else.
Filled with boring overdone clichés, unlikable characters, and
predictable character development, the movie just paints its own doom
as the hours went by. 

It was a fun mindless comedy, but everything else is just mind numbing.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, this is my second official review on IMDb for a film that's had a
bit of a bashing by some, a little bit intimidating if I'll be honest.
Part of me wants to agree with the guys and gals that have given this
sub-5. It doesn't have the depth that some comedies have, not all the
characters are likable, some of their arcs are frankly unbelievable,
and I have no idea whether some of the scenes are even slightly
possible. If yes, sign me up, you'll know which scenes if you watch the
film!

However

Did I laugh my ass off for the best part of an hour and a half? Yes.
Was I stone cold sober? No. Would I watch it again? Absolutely.

Effron doesn't display the awesome acting you might be expecting from
some of his other films, but he's definitely funny (if a little crass
and childish at times, but hey it's called "Mike and Dave need Wedding
Dates, what are you expecting?!?? My regular movie buddy even turned to
me and said so much).

There's romance, there's comedy and, kind of, adventure (not sure on
the one film classifiers at IMDb). Focus on the comedy. Accept that
this is childish. Pour yourself a glass of something yummy, and just
enjoy it for its silliness. Simple fun to be enjoyed by anyone who can
see past some of the stupid lines, nonsensical plot themes and obvious
set ups. Still enjoyed it though!
<|_=00=_|>
What happens when we take some of the strongest young talent around,
mix it with a script that has limited use of some of the most
recognized words in the English language, manages to avoid an NC 17 by
some miracle and asks the audience to leave their brains outside? You
get this offensive, tasteless, and mentally impaired movie.

Loosely inspired by various comedies we have seen before but without
any redeeming quality or grace, we witness a family that hasn't somehow
killed any of its members, treat each other with the utmost disrespect
and seems only concerned with coming up with the next opportunity to
use foul language supposedly to keep the audience believing something
funny is happening. I'm not against hearing a colorful word, but it's
like using spices in the right amount, and pretty soon we're burned and
bored.

Here's a movie that makes the younger generation look pretty useless
and dumb, Hawaii becomes a rather plain scenario because all of its
charms disappear as we are confronted with every possible display of
vulgarity and ignorance. There's not a single clever, cute, or funny
moment. Well, maybe the reconciliation of one of the couples is a fresh
moment of fresh air but that can't overcome the prevalent stench.

There are issues with the proper use of language, too. As far as I know
there was a man in the massage scene, but people kept using the
feminine term. If that slipped by, I wonder if it was just intentional
or just another instance of the effort to come up with anything
memorable. All through the movie I was waiting to for a surprise since
Zach and Anna were there, or maybe some of the inspiration would follow
one of the leads from his hit TV show. An absolute waste of time,
money, and talent. Stay away.
<|_=00=_|>
A few years ago late night comedic TV show hosts used to do this thing
where they'd just use internet terms outside of the internet as the
entire punchline to a joke. They'd say "YOLOOOOO!!!" and "L-O-L" and
"Hashtag_____". The joke was that they were old and using young peoples
lingo and internet things are funny so you don't even need to write any
material just say those words apparently. That was some of the
cringiest work going about. The modern version of that is just saying
"Tinder" over and over and over again or using shock words like "finger
ing" and saying that over and over and over until it looses its comedic
shock. Thats what happened in this movie. Seriously there was at least
9 tinder jokes that were awkwardly slapped into scenes. Adam devine was
the only saving grace in this flick. And even still it was a weak poor
performance from him. You're better off stringing together an entire
season of Workaholics and watching that instead of this, because this
felt like a workaholics episode but 50% less funny. 

It was really cring-y to watch the 2 chic characters try and act drunk
for a good portion of the movie. They just slur their words and hicup a
lot and mention "fist ing" and "tinder" and "finger ing" over and over,
its not funny unless you've never been exposed to dirty humour before.
Why didn't they just have a few drinks before filming? do some method
acting would've made it more convincing then watching a clearly sober
person act drunk. It looks like They were sipping on a fresh wheat
grass juice under an umbrella and the director yelled "action" and they
just started swaying around and slurring dialogue to appear inebriated.
Hollywood seems to be the opposite to where it was years ago. The
actors were all completely smashed drunk and on screen trying to act
sober like Oliver Reed. The last thing I saw Audrey plaza in was that
Father John Misty video and she was ace in those 3 mins. Sucked hard in
this film though. 

Im not sure if we have reached peak shock humour but i'd say we'd be
close. There's only so many times you can just shout shocking words
before the audience members become accustomed to those and it no longer
has a comedic angle. At least in Workaholics they'd get creative with
words, mixing stuff together and generating some new phareses like
"Ayoooo-maggots!" The worlds changed and I don't think you can get away
with this sort of thing anymore. You have to at some point start
writing some proper material instead of relying on the laugh that comes
from an audience member hearing a dirty word they've herd a million
times in private but never on the big screen. 

I think directors are forced to get Effron to take off his top in each
movie because it translates to an extra 10 million views world wide
$$$$$$$$. Hey the kid looks good. Shocking actor. Yes Audrey plazza
even said "Hashtag" out loud as an actual joke in this film. pure
toilet movie. Rubbish Trash Garbage
