
I'm going to be honest about this: I like unabashedly violent action
films. I'm 42 years old, I'm from Texas and I can take it. Growing up
with films like 'Rambo', 'Die Hard', 'The Terminator' and 'Robocop', I
can't stand that watered-down "no-blood-no-swearing" gutless kiddie
fare that is being served as "action" these days. I know the real thing
when I see it - we used to see it all the time back in the day - and I
hardly ever see it anymore.

Which brings me to this movie. 'Kingsman: The Secret Service' was being
shown just around the corner from where I live, and because I loved two
of director Matthew Vaughn's previous films, 'Layer Cake' and
'Kick-Ass', I naturally took the chance to see it. I had already read
some comments from previous screenings that this film was totally
bad-ass, and I can now say that's actually putting it mildly. This film
is nothing short of bat-shît crazy.

Years ago Tarantino said in an interview that he had written a James
Bond script and that he would love to direct a Bond film. Sadly, that
never happened, but ever since I read that I wondered what an R-rated
Bond might be like. I don't know, maybe Matthew Vaughn has read that
interview too and saw the potential, because 'Kingsman' is pretty much
that: An ultra violent, funny, crazy, foul-mouthed James Bond film
(with a little bit of 'Men in Black' and 'Mission Impossible' thrown
in). You could say that this is to Bond what 'Game of Thrones' is to
'Lord of the Rings': Where the former can't and dare not go (for
marketing and box office reasons), the latter joyfully and gloriously
ventures. Dirty and (very black) humor - check. Bad language - check.
Gratuitous violence - check. Needless to say, I was thrilled.

But it's also a fantastic action film with an amazing cast (Oscar
winners Colin Firth and Michael Caine, plus Sam Jackson AND Mark
Hamill) and spectacular, over-the-top fight-scenes that in some
instances even rival films like 'The Raid' for their sheer visceral
intensity. In short, if you're as fed up with lame wannabe Die-Hards
and Terminators as I am, go watch this film. Apart from the rare 'John
Wick' or 'Equalizer', 'Kingsman' seems to be pretty much the only
antidote to the toothless, generic tripe Hollywood tries to pass for
action these days. 9 stars for the film and the story, 11 stars for the
balls to pull this off the way they did. Average = a perfect 10.

EDIT:

P.S. I recently stumbled upon an article on the importance of R rated
movies. If you're a film fan (especially of films that don't cater to
teenagers), you might find it as enlightening as I have:

www.the-fanboy-perspective.com/the-importance-of-the-r-rating.html
<|_=00=_|>
Well folks, that's how it's done. Ever thought MI-6 (note: that's what
the British call their secret service) is a club for snobbish, upper
class dudes who like to watch paint dry all they long? OK, Bond is kind
of cool (I hated the last two, though), but now we finally got a film
that takes spy movies to the next level. Not since 'District 9' have I
had that feeling during the watching of a film like "this movie just
does everything right" (by which I mean of course: it plays exactly to
MY taste). 

Compared to this film, every James Bond movie released after 'Licence
to Kill' looks like a snore-fest. This is such a kick-ass, "balls
against the wall" crazy ride that I had to shake my head several times
in disbelief during the screening I was invited to. And I actually knew
what I was in for. I've seen every film by Matthew Vaughn, but I was
not prepared how far he was willing to go with this one. Thought
'Kick-Ass' was pretty crazy? Wait till you see this.

One of the key ingredients is the casting of the actors. The well known
stars all play against type, which makes this even more unreal.
Remember that lame dude who mainly played lame dudes in girlie movies
like 'Bridget Jones'? He just won an Oscar for playing the stuttering
King of England, and as you will see in 'Kingsman', that Oscar was well
deserved: that dude (Colin Firth) can play anything! He's more bad-ass
in this than Bond ever was!

A word to the wise, though, this film is not for the easily offended or
the squeamish. It is a comedy but a very, very violent kind of comedy.
And the language alone will shock the MPAA out of their pants. Watch
this if you're into films like 'Lock, Stock', 'Kick-Ass', or 'In
Bruges' and you'll probably love it - don't bother if you're more into
serious films or family friendly comedies. As for me, I had a (bloody)
good time.
<|_=00=_|>
I just came back from a pre-screening of 'Kingsman' and let me tell
you: if you liked the first Kick-Ass, you are going to LOOOVE this
film! I would never have thought that a stiff Brit like Colin Firth
could pull off action - but boy, does he whoop ass in this one. I
thought the story was rather original (don't know the Comic), it's a
bit like an ultra violent James Bond parody. Or better: a crossbreed of
Bond and Kick-Ass. Finally an action movie that doesn't use
kiddie-gloves. The kid who plays the recruit is also worth mentioning.
I've never seen him before but he really nails it. There's a lot of
humor in this film, it really doesn't take itself too seriously, but
it's not overdone. And Sam Jackson finally found something he hasn't
done yet. I guess his role was already spoiled a bit in the trailer,
but believe me: you haven't seen Jackson in this kind of part before.
This is an excellent, over-the-top bloody and sexy film for fans of
old-school action films. I give it 10 stars. Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
Stylish, brutal and hilarious. 'Kingsman' is an extremely
quintessentially British flick full of over-the-top yet hilarious
comedy, brutal violence and a quirky image of England. Since James
Bond's debut in 1962, a number of films have attempted to reinvent the
genre, with films like 'Johnny English', 'Get Smart', 'This Means War'
and many more, however, none have come close to displaying the perfect
blend like 'Kingsman' has. Matthew Vaughn has become renowned for
taking on action-comedy projects, for instance 'Kick-Ass' (which is
still stronger than this but only just), and along the way has kept
that feel-good British aspect to it that makes our greatest secret
agent (James Bond) such an icon. All-in-all 'Kingsman' is a brilliant,
well-executed film.
<|_=00=_|>
#Kingsman: The Secret Service is a gentlemen secret spy-society that
saves the world from a villain with the help of new recruits ... Don't
let this summary fool you, the movie fantastic! It got applause at the
end of the preview; for me first time ever in a cinema. 

Great lines, never laughed this much: Bond with a wink and fresh edge.
Plus super shot "martial art" action that should make the Matrix
jealous. The action has its true Shakespearian/GoTh moments and all
supported by cool tech-stuff. Great aspect in this movie is the music,
an extra comic dimension. When you see the movie you'll know what I
mean. Next too all the clever fun and furious action, it touches on
petty crime poverty and home violence. Matthew Vaugh captures the
grimness yet doesn't loose it's lightness ... and I like the message:
"a gentlemen is not born, a gentle(wo)men is someone who chooses to be
one." 

The young gang, like Sophie Cookson, held up well and Taron Egerton
established his position in the gang of giants. Colin Firth's aloofness
was crowned with a kick-ass bite, Samuel Jackson brings his role back
to old fashion comedy, strongly supported by Mark Strong and Michael
Caine. It is a big 9,5 - this movie just nailed it.
<|_=00=_|>
Kingsman: The Secret Service marks the third film in a row that
director Matthew Vaughn has adapted from a comic book background. His
two predeceasing being Kick-Ass (2010) and X-Men: First Class (2011) -
which, by all means, were pretty damn good!

Over the last few decades, both comic and superhero movies, mostly fall
into the easy trap of taking themselves too seriously. Where Vaughn's
vision lies, and so-far proved by his former comic adapted films is
that they draw a clean balance to where drama and serious character
development ends, and cartoonish humour meets, leaving a unique
entertainment that stands out.

Based on the comic by Mark Millar (who also created Kick-Ass), the film
sees a young  no better way to put it  chav, called Gary 'Eggsy'
Unwin (Taron Egerton), taken under the wing of Harry Hart (Colin
Firth), a spy for her majesty's secret service. With the aid of Michael
Caine and Mark Strong, they soon come face-to-face with the villainous
Richmond Valentine (Samuel L. Jackson); an ego- centric - Steve
Jobs-type - billionaire madman (with a lisp), who hates the sight of
blood  yet holds a vision of mass biological warfare.

Licenced to thrill, Kingsman' is almost a love-letter to the James Bond
films  but not too far as a parody, like Austin Powers - but more a
homage to the franchise - a 007 meets Kick-Ass, of sorts. At a point,
Colin Firth's character, Harry, even mocks the thought by saying 'give
me a far-fetched, theoretical plot any day'

Fans of Bond and Kick-Ass are certain to love it, as through
rollercoasters of action, comedy and espionage, comes a bucket of
winks, references and nods to the world of spy movies. Just like the
colourful, gadget ridden Bond films of the 1960's, Kingsman is very fun
to watch, with 'wham, bam, thank-you ma'am' style of mayhem, one-
liners and bonkers soundtrack crazed all over it.

The comic the film was based on was already hugely entertaining  in
fact, probably the best we have read. Littered with Millar's creative
quirkiness and with Vaughn's auteur film-making, has left a
stylized-spectacle of ultra-violence.

Portraying the lead character of 'Eggsy', Taron Egerton (also in this
month's Testament of Youth), proves to be an outstanding newcomer as he
brings the character to life with an energizing vibe of a comparing
ethic of chav lifestyle vs. gentleman's class.

Alongside, and tackling the mentor, come father type role, is Colin
Firth, who based on previous filmography alone could easily be classed
as Britain's most boring and typecast actor. Until now, the mold
romantic films is broken as he picks up a gun and finds an encyclopedia
of wit and enters openly new territory. It's Colin Firth like you have
never seen before!  and it is bad-ass.

Squeezing in with a 15 rating (somehow), Kingsman is never short of
violence and its guts and guns galore, when kneecapping; slicing off
body parts and explosions become all too familiar. Given the calibre of
talent involved, Kingsman' does not fall stereotype and gimmicky like
other YA spy adventures like Stormbreaker, or Spy Kids, but instead, a
well-deserved mash-up of espionage and true cinematic excitement.
<|_=00=_|>
In the first 5 minutes of this abhorrently violent film, one of the
film's protagonists is literally sliced in half, length-wise, from top
to bottom, by a (yawn) hot, Asian-looking, double-amputee with some
sort of "slasher foot-prosthetics" on her tawny, spandex-clad limbs.
Yes, you read that right. Not only are the physics involved in this
ludicrous action simply impossible, there is NO blood--nothing. Just an
insipidly-dumb, ill-conceived effect designed to make sadistic killing
"funny" and elicit a cheap "ooh!" from the audience. 

But wait--there's more. In another disturbing scene, a church full of
"Westboro Baptist"-style fundamentalist bigots beat, claw, and slash
each other to death to the musical accompaniment of the "Free Bird"
ending guitar solo. I guess mass murder is cool and fun if it's scored
to some popular music and if the victims are just ignorant bigots; hey,
no foul, no crime. Are we supposed to cheer this? There are other
nauseating violent scenarios, all shot in the latest hi-tech digital
slow-motion, freeze-frame camera work that makes rednecks and "real
men" squeal in ecstasy. Oh yeah-and at the end, the hero's "prize" for
"saving the world"? Why, what every alcohol-numbed fratboy/
socially-challenged gamer dreams of; (read this with a Swedish
accent)"sex in the asshole" with a winsome, blond Scandinavian
princess. I kid you not, folks. This is the shallowest,
lowest-common-denominator script-writing.

This movie is an utterly disgusting and pathetic reflection of what
passes for "entertainment" in today's mentally-damaged world of
desensitized adults raised on UFC blood sport, graphic "head shots" in
ultra-violent video games and a lack of real moral role models from our
authority figures and heroes. It's a world of violence for violence'
sake, and graphic violence as "entertainment". I felt dirty and stained
after sitting through this turkey with my fiancé's friends on our
double-date. Hopefully, you'll never have to experience the
indignity...
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie with decent hopes given the high rating it had,
but it's not like I was over expecting or anything. In the end I found
this thing a total a mess. I think for me it tried to ride too many
lines and as a result failed in most aspects. It tried to take itself
serious as a spy movie, yet it also tried to be this weird comedy, and
while I think movies are capable of doing both, this one just didn't do
it well or right to the point where it just bounced me out of the movie
completely. Far as it taking itself seriously I found it to be way over
the top unbelievable and unrealistic to the point of being stupid. Far
as the comedy, I just didn't think the nuclear head explosions or the
McDonalds being served on a silver platter was funny at all.

Granted I'm American and I get that English humor is a bit different,
but I love Monty Python, Snatch, Mr. Bean, even most of the Bond films.
Yet most of the funny moments in this movie I just found remarkably
unfunny to the point where rather than it being a quick laugh it just
completely bounced me out of the movie. And the few comical moments
that were actually funny were already covered in the trailers, so for
me this movie totally fell flat on the comedy scale to the point of
actually hurting the movie.

Now on the taking itself seriously aspect, the whole spy gig, the young
recruit, it just failed on that level for me as well. Certain aspects
of the action scenes were done well and some of the bullet time action
was good, but I thought the editing needed a lot of work. The massacre
in the church I just thought was way over done and too long. I find it
amazing in movies like this how fight scenes go on for many minutes and
when it's all done, people are barely winded, breathing normally. Give
me a break, go watch professional boxers or MMA fighters and see how
they look after just one round, and they are real athletes who train
vigorously. So while some of the action was okay, it was so over the
top that again it bounced me out of the movie. So between the bad
comedy and overcooked action I was constantly being reminded that I was
watching a movie rather than be swept up into one.

My last beef is with the main kid and the whole "recruitment / training
camp". Probably what bounced me out of the movie the most was here we
have some reckless rebellious kid who's training to this point has been
gymnastics, so okay he's flexible, has good balance, etc... Yet with
little to no further training at all he's the biggest bad ass? The
recruitment / initiation program was a joke. It wasn't a training
program of any kind, it was basically "lets throw these kids in a no
win situation and see how the fend and who comes out on top." I get the
idea was they were trying to weed through all the recruits to get the
best one, but the whole while I kept thinking "So this kid is just a
natural born bad ass because he did gymnastics and has daddy issues?"
Then once he's out and starts real life spy work he's untouchable and
better than all the worlds master assassins. It's like her Mom's bf who
bullies him early in the movie, who he confronts in the end, and I'm
thinking "So other than being this super spy what has he done to
actually improve his skills as a fighter?"

Overall I thought the action was decent, but very over the edge of what
you'd consider to be believable "movie believability I mean." The black
comedy was pretty flat and did very little in making me laugh or enjoy
myself. Finally the believability of this kid taking over for his dad
and his quasi predecessor was just absurd. I give it a 3 / 10. One
point on principle and because I liked the main spy girl, a 2nd point
because some of the action was decent, and a 3rd point for the best
part of the movie which was the bare ass scene at the end, which
shocked me enough to yell out "HELLO!"
<|_=00=_|>
People will have interesting reactions to this film. All of Matthew
Vaughn's movies have been good, and he was able to push it further with
this one. I would call it an action comedy, but there is more of an
emphasis on the action than the genre usually has. 

There are cool POV shots, and it gets you right into the thick of it.
It mixes it up with some short moments where it doesn't cut so quickly,
as well as a few long takes that are particular nice. The violence and
comedy has a guttural component, which a person like me really enjoys,
but it will throw some off. 

The film is a throwback to old spy flicks, while at the same time being
a sort of parody. It is humorous throughout. Samuel L. Jackson plays an
odd megalomaniac who makes you laugh more than shiver, which goes with
the tone of the movie. It is nice to see Samuel L. in the role of a bad
guy. I have no doubt that many will enjoy the henchwoman, who has a
different element to her. Colin Firth fits in with the particularly
suave spying; and, the newcomer playing the protagonist, Taron Egerton,
handles both the action and comedy well. Mark Strong is always a good
actor for movies with dark humor. It is fun, however those who are
sensitive may have trouble enjoying it. It is not a film for everyone,
but that makes it better for others. I personally think it is Vaughn's
best work.

8.75
<|_=00=_|>
It's strange when you consider it, how much the Spy thriller genre has
changed and grown because of James Bond, there is not a single Spy
movie that is made that isn't and won't be compared to double 'O' seven
himself. So I suppose it's no surprise that a film like Kingsman had to
be made eventually, so I suppose the reel question is will this make
the Sky fall or just be a quantum of nonsense? 

Say what you like about Mathew Vaughn the man likes his comics. So far
out of the 5 films he has directed, 3 were graphic novels first.
Kingsman is one of them. The man's like the anti-Zack Snyder, he
directs films based off of comics and brings out real issues in them,
as opposed to Snyder who directs films based off of graphic novels and
ignores any merit or comment on the wider world the books make and just
makes HIS movies. I'm happy to say that Kingsman is probably the most
fun I will have in a cinema screen this year.

As I've already said Spy films get compared to James Bond, so let's
begin with that shall we? Kingsman is a film that is both totally
unique and its own movie whilst fully embracing its British heritage,
the films marketing campaign drew strong comparisons to For Your Eyes
Only artwork. The film acknowledges all of those stupid spy clichés in
a way which is both knowing and clever, and then it ditches them all.
The best example of this I can give is in the opening sequence of the
film, there is a glass of whisky, a lot of people die and there isn't a
drop of said whiskey spilt, and at that moment Kingsman sticks two
fingers up at the past and says "we're the future" and from that second
onwards Kingsman is its own movie. The film successfully reinvents just
about every stereotype imaginable in a spy film. 

The villain, who is always central in a spy movie, is Valentine (played
by Samuel L. Jackson). Valentine is a megalomaniac who wants world
domination, all standard stuff so far, he also has a lisp and is
terrified of blood. That's the kind of thing Kingsman does really well,
it sets us up with the standard and transforms it to be unique.

The film is of course preposterous in the extreme, but I don't care. It
was funny, clever, brilliant and unique. Kingsman has so many pro's to
it that you can easily overlook the minor short comings, because in the
end the film has a baddie who has blades for legs, I mean who doesn't
love that?

What I like most about Kingsman is that even with all its madness it
still manages to have some kind of heart; the entire movie is kind of a
think piece on class war and the importance of legacy. The movie has a
brain and a soul and it has no problem expressing either, the finale to
the parachute problem proves this most for me. 

I would be remised if I didn't mention something about the cast, let
get over the whole "the obvious people are amazing thing" and look
forward to the new comers Taron Egerton (playing "Eggsy") and Sophie
Cookson (playing Roxy). These two talents have come from nowhere and
broken through the glass ceiling, Cookson and Egerton are stars with
one film to their names, and they deserve every single piece of praise
that comes to them. Taron is such an unbelievably versatile young man,
he can be funny, clever, cool, cocky, brash, physical, confident and
insecure all without saying a word or moving a muscle. Also, I loved
seeing Jack Davenport on screen again.

Kingsman is the film this country needed; it's confident and fun,
without being disrespectful or full of nasty. In short, Sic.
