
This film will divide audiences and critics (as it already has;
especially American and British ones), so it will be interesting to see
whether it finds a market here in Australia. 'The Dressmaker' is the
long awaited directorial return of Jocelyn Moorhouse. After 'Proof' was
a major critical success in 1991, American features followed, but this
is the first for Ms Moorhouse in nearly 2 decades. There is an
audacious feel to this movie from start to finish and for me, an
unexpected one. From the movie poster, this would seem like a period
costume drama; well it is certainly set in a bygone era, and there is a
panoply of amazing costumes, but this film is impossible to squeeze
into a genre; making it a challenge to describe nor summarize.

As I write this review, the film has not yet opened nationwide in
Australia; but if the preview audience I attended was any indication,
this film will be enjoyed by local filmgoers, but will it find a
mainstream audience? I somehow doubt it. It is anarchic; indulgent,
broad, implausible and loads of fun!! I enjoyed most of its 2 hour
running time; but the final quarter did feel clumsy with a little too
much plot shoehorned in; giving it a chaotic and lurching quality.
Early on I sat wondering how this movie will fit into the already
idiosyncratic reputation that Aussie films have; both at home and on
the world screens. 'The Dressmaker' is ultimately going to be its own
genre. As an adaptation from the novel of the same name; there are so
many characters to depict and follow; and part of the chaos was the
litany of quirkily filmed sequences with a who's who of local talent.
This is easily the best cast ever assembled for an Australian feature;
from stand up comedians to TV icons, to stage and screen legends; and
new talent. 

Perhaps it will be the star lineup that will lure filmgoers into the
cinema for this movie. Judy Davis, one of our most celebrated actors,
virtually steals the movie from the British import, the amazing Kate
Winslet. Davis is in top form here, showing a screwball comedic side;
rarely seen in her stellar career thus far; perhaps only glimpsed in
the Woody Allen films she has appeared in. With the blackened teeth;
the haggard make up and hobo costuming, Judy is a riot as the mother to
the story's protagonist. If Ms Davis doesn't get the AACTA for
Supporting Actress, I'll be very surprised. And if the movie gets the
right marketing, perhaps that elusive Oscar for one of the great
unrewarded screen stars. The teaming of Judy with Kate Winslet works
well; there are some riotous moments and tender ones too; which give
the film not only respite from the breakneck speed but some gravitas.
Liam Hemsworth is suitably the movie matin√©e idol; with his piercing
blue eyes, his tall, muscular frame and that true blue Aussie drawl.
Sarah Snook shows once again why she is the lady in waiting for the big
time, and is racking up an impressive list of screen credits. There are
so many great actors here: Sacha Horler, Barry Otto, Julia Blake,
Genevieve Lemon, Rebecca Gibney, literally just naming a few, and
perhaps best of all, a cross dressing Hugo Weaving, showing that there
is nothing this great actor cannot play, and play admirably.

The film is beautifully filmed and designed, and the strange world of
this quaint little town in the middle of nowhere is perfectly captured
and lovingly presented. So what are the criticisms? I was fine with the
morphing of black comedy, western, revenge, love story motifs and
styles; but I struggled a little with the matching of Kate Winslet, who
at nearly 40 is way too old to have been a contemporary of the
characters played here by Snook, Hemsworth et al. Winslet is nearer the
age of the actors playing the parents of her and her contemporaries -
Alison Whyte and Rebecca Gibney. As gorgeous and brilliant in the role
as she is, it does seem as if the film, which was possibly funded and
built around Winslet, has forgotten about this age difference. At 25,
Liam Hemsworth, and Sarah Snook at 27 simply don't look right in the
context of the main characters return after 20 years. That said, i
mostly ignored this, and just enjoyed this caper movie for what it is.

In reading reviews of the movie from overseas, and seeing the vitriol
targeting the movie's 'mish mash' and 'mess', I reflected on which
other films or filmmakers 'The Dressmaker' was reminiscent of. Wes
Anderson's 'Grand Budapest Hotel' sprung to mind as well as the work of
Joel and Ethan Coen and Quentin Tarantino. All of these storytellers
dabble in an array of genres, rendering them difficult to categorize,
whilst still engendering praise and an audience. Anderson's recent
multi Oscar win, had a glorious cast, a beautiful design, and a
similarly caper like quality: at times just silly, but handsome to
watch and enjoyable in the moment, and arty for sure, but hardly earth
shattering or deep and meaningful. I hope that Australian critics and
audiences alike get behind 'The Dressmaker' as it is a caper movie; I
don't think it believes it is making a weighty, earnest Oscar bait
movie, but a roller-coaster of a cinematic kind; funny, biting, gauche,
heightened,tense and raucuous; and at the end of the day, very very
entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
Brilliant movie. Kate Winslet as the star lives the role so perfectly
you forget she is not a native born Australian - her accent is
flawless, her acting is raw and beautiful. The movie is heart
wrenching, darkly funny, shocking and confronting all in a delightful
way. Judy Davis is brilliant - irascible as Mad Molly, you gradually
discover her depth and beauty. Again flawlessly played. Hugo Weaving is
fantastic as always - several laugh out loud moments with him. He is
the consummate actor and where someone else playing this role would
have just been a plain unlikeable weirdo, Hugo makes you love him and
his quirky nature. Liam Hemsworth is sweet and very watchable. The
townsfolk played by many notable Australian actors are well played
also. All in all a wonderful movie that will touch your heart in many
ways. Liked it so much, I will definitely go and see it again. It's
THAT good.
<|_=00=_|>
'The Dressmaker' is not the type of film that instantly attracts me to
the cinema. It's the wrong genre, (although this movie is difficult to
place) the wrong story and it creates the wrong type of atmosphere.
Leave this to the women and go and see something a little
more.......you. How wrong I was and how glad I am to have jumped out of
my comfort zone. It was a good excuse to take my good old mum and treat
her to a midday-midweek viewing and some company with her first born or
that is what I told myself when I entered the theatre only to find it
filled with women and retirees excited to be out and about without the
frightening hording masses that congregate on weekends.

'The Dressmaker' has been dubbed as the long awaited return of Director
Jocelyn Moorhouse to the chair since 1997 and she has delivered a film
that will be remembered for some outstanding performances from Judy
Davis, Hugo Weaving and Kate Winslet. I agree with the statement that
this film doesn't fit into any particular mold but this peculiar
inconsistency is what keeps the audience fixated on the screen. Just
when you think that the story is heading down a certain path it quickly
turns sideways, takes a detour before arriving at its intended
destination. Some viewers may find this lack of direction annoying and
even film destroying but I think this could be a little over dramatic.

'The Dressmaker' holds a certain charm that never leaves it as it sways
back and forth from one type of genre to the next. It can be billed as
a 'black comedy' but it does allow the audience to experience an array
of emotions. At times you will be laughing at the antics on screen and
at other times you will be gripped by the drama unfolding.

Based on the novel of the same name by Rosalie Ham, 'The Dressmaker'
centres around Myrtle 'Tilly' Dunnage (Kate Winslet) and her chaotic
return to a small Australian country town in rural Victoria in 1951.
Tilly's tumultuous departure years before were under controversial
circumstances and the small rural community have not forgotten. She is
everything the town isn't - sophisticated, stylish, experienced and
worldly and she has come back for one reason......to reek havoc on
those that callously betrayed her all those years ago.

Kate Winslet rarely puts in a bad showing and her turn as Tilly Dunnage
is made even more exceptional with a flawless Australian accent. The
audience will forget that she is English as she seamlessly slides into
the fabric of her surroundings, not once slipping up when delivering
her dialogue. Judy Davis is the star of the show as Tilly's mad mother,
Molly Dunnage. Davis effortlessly steals every scene she is in with
outstanding engagement with a character that is a little bit off
centre. Judy will be recognised for this performance with an AACTA and
it will be thoroughly deserved.

Hugo Weaving adds his superb presence as the cross dressing cop,
Sergeant Farrat. His character grows on the audience with eccentric
colourful manner, bringing the best out in Weaving that gives this
wonderful film an extra element of charm. Liam Hemsworth provides the
eye candy for the ladies in a solid role as Teddy McSwiney. Both Davis
and Winslet are caught hot under the collar on numerous occasions. He
is the stereo-typical tall, blue-eyed, rugged country boy who is the
proverbial apple in his mother's eye and does exactly what Moorhouse
hired him to do......stand there and look pretty. Good onya Liam.

Joining the familiar talent is a who's who of Australian television
that many international audiences won't recognise but they do give the
film a more authentic Aussie flavour. Could this be the breakout role
for Sarah Snook? Her character Gertrude Pratt is totally transformed by
Tilly Dunnage only to treat the outsider with disdain when 'theories'
are whispered throughout the town.

I cannot see any reason why this film won't be enjoyed by the masses.
It is Australian and its dry wit may not appeal to foreign markets
which is a shame. The narrative is all over the place but don't let
this put you off. Dig a little deeper and you will be rewarded with
some brilliant performances.
<|_=00=_|>
Over the years there have been many quirky, eccentric characters
featured in Australian films such as Muriel's Wedding, The Castle and
Priscilla Queen of the Desert. The stories have been uniquely
Australian to be appreciated by Australian audiences but occasionally
they become worldwide hits like Crocodile Dundee. It's the laid-back
Aussie humour that international audiences sometimes just don't
understand which prevents the majority of Australian films from
crossing the cultural barrier. The Dressmaker has been successful at
the Australian box office for it features a story where the underdog or
misunderstood succeeds along with a story that promotes the Aussie dry
wit with dialogue that appeals to the everyday Australian.

Myrtle 'Tilly' Dunnage (Kate Winslet) returns home to rural Australia
after spending time abroad developing her fashion designing skills. As
a child she was sent to a boarding school in Melbourne by Sergeant
Farrat (Hugo Weaving) for she was accused of murdering a boy who
bullied her. Her mother, Molly (Judy Davis) initially doesn't recognise
her and isn't convinced she's her daughter. She eventually accepts her
in her house and Tilly transforms it into a fashion factory where she
makes clothes for the women of the town. In the meantime, she becomes
romantically involved with Teddy McSwiney (Liam Hemsworth) whom she has
known since they were children. The town still hasn't forgiven her for
apparently killing the boy and believe she is cursed. Tilly will
virtually stop at nothing to exact revenge on those who did her wrong. 

The Dressmaker is a long way from being perfect but what it does offer
is an entertaining two hours that is well-paced and beguiling. There
might be a few too many flashbacks and slow motion sequences but the
compelling storyline featuring a wide range of interesting characters
allows the majority of the film to shine. Some of the depictions of the
characters might be broad but that's just the perfect fit for
quintessential Australians. 

A lot of the dialogue is witty and adds much to the Aussie humour on
show. Davis garners most of the laughs in a performance which
demonstrates her sensational acting ability. Winslet perfects the
Aussie accent with this being her second time playing an Australian
after 1999's Holy Smoke! Many of the scenes she shares with her screen
mother are hilarious. Weaving also has his turn in the spotlight with a
wonderful performance as the cross-dressing police officer. Hemsworth
plays it straight in comparison to his co-stars and reliably fulfills
his role as the love interest. Support actors such as Shane Bourne,
Sarah Snook, Kerry Fox and Barry Otto also succeed in projecting the
individual traits of their characters.

Credit must go to the costume designs with the haute couture style
befitting of the movie title. With the story being reminiscent of a
Clint Eastwood western where the main character comes to town, mingles
with the locals then affects their lives one way or another, the music
score by David Hirschfelder has some resemblance to a western. It's an
exciting score that perfectly sets up the moods of the characters and
the theme of the plot. The cinematography by Donald McAlpine also
enhances the look of the film, ensuring that the rural town maintains
its 'western' appearance.

Although clich√©s do affect the characters and story, the overall
quality of the film ensures that most viewers will be entertained.
Jocelyn Moorhouse (the director and co-writer) should be chuffed with
her film's box office success even though not all critics have praised
her work. Sometimes it's the majority you have to please, not the
minority. http://mlaimlai2.wix.com/magical-movie-review
<|_=00=_|>
Banished from a remote and sparsely populated Australian town when she
was ten, Tilly (Kate Winslet) returns many years later. Fresh from
conquering the fashion world in Paris, Tilly's form fitting red dress
turns heads immediately. Some say Tilly committed a horrible crime and
was cursed for it. Tilly has come in order to better learn the truth
about what really happened and to set things right. There are many
things on her mind including determining her own guilt in the matter,
her mother Molly who appears to be mad, lifting the curse, finding love
and revenge, among other things.

Battle lines form. Many want Tilly to be guilty and cursed. They work
to get her seen in the worst light. The haters may even include Tilly's
mother Molly. Yet there are many who believe in Tilly. As she sets up a
dress making shop and helps create new and better characters for
people, her allies grow. The dresses she makes change how people see
themselves and how others view them. It may not be Tilly who is cursed,
rather it might be the town for the judgments that they heaped upon a
girl.

At the heart of this wonderful film is the theme of how a few awful
people make life so bad for others by their terrible and swift
judgments. The film is set in the 1950s and is both serious and funny.
P.J. Hogan is one of the best screenwriters. His stories are complex
and full of amazing twists & turns. His insight into human nature,
especially female characters, is spot-on. Added to the spell-binding
writing is superb acting by Kate Winslet, Hugo Weaving and the others,
the always intriguing back-drop of Australia, compelling themes and
characters, and superb directing and organization. Of the 32 films I
saw at the Toronto International Film Festival this year, this was the
best.
<|_=00=_|>
This is hands down the best film in the English language I've seen for
at least two years. Not only does it do its source absolute justice, it
adds a genuine, highly original Oz visual atmosphere to its themes. The
cast is nothing short of amazing, with every single character bringing
the utmost of their craft to the roles. Judy Davis delivers one of the
best performances of her illustrious career, but Kate Winslet, Kerry
Fox and Sarah Snook are also fantastic. Liam Hemsworth isn't just
hotter than Chris, he's also the far more nuanced thespian. Hugo
Weaving, one of the best actors of his generation, sinks his teeth into
his beefy part of an exceedingly well-mannered cop in the 1950's Oz
outback.

Winslet is the mysterious stranger arriving by night whom he delivers
her luggage to in the beginning of the film. He quickly recognizes her
as the girl he sent away following the death of a boy her age 25 years
earlier. The townsfolk, including her quick-tempered mother played by
Davis, alternate between suspicion of the motives of her return and
attraction for her stunning dressmaking skills and resolute character.

Some people will find the meandering story, which constantly shifts
between mystery, comedy, tragedy and romance hard to follow. It's their
own fault. Everyone else will highly appreciate the original story, the
excellent camera work and set design, the abundance of love shown in
every frame for a project that took 15 years to realize. Its domestic
success as the 2nd most successful film of 2015 after
you-know-which-one could not be more deserved.

One can therefore only wonder why the Adacemy snubbed this for the
Oscars, especially if you look at the usual suspects which represent
the contenders this year. And as justified as the #OscarsSoWhite debate
is, this omission also reminds us of another group of movie artists
which are all too often absent from the list of nominees: Women. For
what makes "The Dressmaker" so highly enjoyable on top of its original
story, local feel and excellent cast, is that it offers a feminine
angle of storytelling which we do not get to see enough.
<|_=00=_|>
Today I had the absolute pleasure of seeing a film I've been waiting
about a decade for. 'The Dressmaker' is adapted from Rosalie Ham's
bestselling Australian book which first came out in 2000, and I studied
in high school about that long ago too. Ms Ham actually came and spoke
at my school, and I can still remember her telling us that she was
currently writing a screenplay of the book ¬ñ but that she wasn't sure
if the American production company would want the movie to be set in
Australia or adapted to the bible-belt/deep south of America.

Well. It's the year 2015 and 'The Dressmaker' is here ¬ñ and it's
spectacular and spectacularly Aussie. Indeed, I couldn't have pictured
a film adaptation that took the Australia out of this country-Gothic
dark comedy tale, and watching the film (shot around Victoria in
Horsham, Little River and Yarraville) I got tingles when I saw the town
of Dungatar on the screen ¬ñ bought so precisely to life. The lonely
white gum trees and rocky-red dust bowl look, the rusted tin-roofs and
sagging clapboard buildings. The distinctly Australian setting becomes
a character unto itself, and a stark background to Tilly Dunnage's
unfolding tale of style and secrets ¬Ö

I absolutely loved the book when I studied it in school, and I'm
thrilled to report that the film is equally fantastic and one of the
best adaptations I've seen. Kate Winslet is Tilly who returns home to
look after her ailing mother (and town outcast) "mad" Molly ¬Ö but she's
also returned home to discover the truth of why she was sent away as a
child. The town of Dungatar is sure that Tilly murdered a boy, and
Tilly is half-convinced of the rumor too, and sure it's why she's now
cursed. But she also knows that Dungatar never had any love for her and
Molly growing up, and if she wants to get close to the truth she'll
have to use everything in her arsenal to pry it out of them. 

Tilly's arsenal happens to be fashion. Haute-couture, to be more
precise. Since running away from a Melbourne boarding school as a girl,
she traveled from London to Milan and Paris, studying under the greats
(Balenciaga!) and when she returns to Dungatar she's a veritable
fashion powerhouse ¬ñ using her Singer sewing machine to create
Dior-inspired and Tilly-originals to coax the vile women of Dungatar
into a false sense of individuality and specialness ¬Ö

The cast in this film is fantastic. Kate Winslet and Judy Davis clearly
have a ball playing contentious mother/daughter pair Tilly and Molly,
and there's a beautiful balance of the absurd and heartbreaking between
them. Liam Hemsworth as one of the few kind Dungatar townspeople who
pursues Tilly romantically, despite her dire warnings of a curse, is at
his charming best here ¬ñ the role of Teddy McSwiney isn't much of a
stretch for him, but it's lovely to see and hear a Hemsworth in a
little Aussie role that suits him to a tee (and, look, at school my
fellow classmates were dead-set on the likes of Beau Brady from 'Home
and Away' playing Teddy so ¬ñ Liam's wonderful!).

The film is choc-a-block with Aussie stars playing dastardly villains
or defeated characters in the town of Dungatar ¬ñ Shane Jacobson, Barry
Otto, Shane Bourne and Alison Whyte among them. Some of these minor
roles clearly got a bit jumbled in the editing; there's a wayward
flirtation between Rebecca Gibney and a shop-keep that just sort of
goes nowhere ¬Ö but then there's Hugo Weaving as the kindly
cross-dressing Sergeant Farrat, making up for mistakes in the past by
befriending Tilly and coming to her and Molly's defense ¬ñ Weaving
shines in the role and clearly had a ball.

Another stand-out was Sarah Snook as Gertrude 'Trudy' Pratt, an old
classmate of Tilly's who becomes one of her main clotheshorses. Snook
is in everything at the moment (coming off 'The Secret River'
adaptation, now in 'The Beautiful Lie') and she's just wonderful. In
this film when the clothes are also characters as much as the setting,
Snook is breathtaking in Tilly's Dior and Balenciaga. The film is set
in the 1950s so it's vintage Dior and Balenciaga, darling ¬ñ everyone
looks like a Lauren Bacall and Katharine Hepburn throwback, and it
especially suits Snook with her luminous, luminous skin and enviable
hourglass figure.

Kate Winslet is truly superb ¬ñ of course she nails the accent, that's
one of her great strengths (remember 1994's 'Heavenly Creatures'?) ¬ñ
and she's absolutely stunning in all of the vintage couture. But she
really does justice to Tilly, a complex and fragile character beneath
all those breathtaking outfits like suits of armor.

I t was great fun to see this story I've long loved come to life.
Director Jocelyn Moorhouse has made a sumptuous film that frames the
stark town of Dungatar as beautifully as she does the actresses
swanning in the stunning gowns. The adaptation is one of the best I've
ever seen, but then again Rosalie Ham had some great material on offer
in her country-Gothic tale of ball gowns and small-town brutality. I
couldn't believe how hard I cried in some parts, even as I vividly
remembered having the wind knocked out of me when I first read the
twists and turns in Ham's book all those years ago ¬Ö 'The Dressmaker'
is a little Aussie marvel.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is like a patchwork, little by little you get the whole
picture, a really fine piece of work, Kate Winslet is great, Judy Davis
simply brilliant, not to mention Hugo Weaving's performance,
outstanding, I enjoyed every minute, never underestimate a woman,
revenge is a dish best served cold, well in this particular case,
sewed, you don't get it at the beginning, why is she dressed like this
and what is she doing in such a forsaken place, not wanted at all,
starting by her mother, than the battle begins, with a sewing machine
(a Singer), determination and a lot of talent, a few golf club's, and
the whole place is headlong, word for word, fasten your seat belt, this
is going to be one kind of a ride
<|_=00=_|>
Well, that has to be the most conflicting movie experience I've ever
known. I was invited to the premiere of The Dressmaker last night and
I'm unsure whether I can say I loved it, hated it, thought it was
hilarious, found it terribly sad, was frustrated because it was so
weird or enjoyed it because some of the characters were so endearing -
this movie caused all of these emotions and more. It's certainly
entertaining - just so many roller-coaster sensations within the space
of only a few minutes. A viewer will fluctuate continually between
laughing raucously one minute only to find themselves experiencing deep
sadness, anger, confusion or just plain asking yourself 'Why did they
include this?' with the next breath. And they're a mix of the most
quirky / weird / unlikeable / endearing / heartwarming characters I've
ever seen / met. There was one character I didn't like at all, even
though at some stages I still found myself laughing at some of their
antics. I'm sure many readers will either disagree with me or think I'm
referring to someone else - but that's okay, that's what makes us all
different. The Dressmaker is definitely worth a look but not something
I'd pay to see again - mainly because of the inclusion of that one
character already referred to. This movie is very very dark in places
and the ending is definitely not what you expect! The dialogue flurries
and stubborn, though endearing, rapport constantly firing between Kate
Winslet and Judy Davies are exceptional and certainly to be applauded.
A very big hats off to Kate for a wonderful portrayal of an Aussie
accent - you would swear she is a true blue Aussie. I have never heard
anyone who wasn't born here to pull off an Aussie accent with such
authenticity as she showed in this. Proves her calibre as an actress
and the exceptional talent of Victoria Mielewska, her dialogue coach.
Added to all of this, the budget must have been huge as every single
person involved was easily recognisable from another movie or TV series
- and most of them big Aussie names. So don't bother asking me whether
you should go and see it - you'll just have to go along and see for
yourself - but I can almost guarantee it's definitely not at all what
you'll be expecting. And interestingly, other ladies in two book clubs
I am connected to said they felt exactly the same with both the book
and the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Kate Winslet and Judy Davis steal the whole movie. Liam Hemsworth is
very nice on the eye. Everyone else is a caricature.

The movie was surprisingly humorous for the first 90 minutes. Not all
the one liners are in the trailer after all. But then the plot takes a
dark turn and really loses its way. The book probably took its time to
get all the characters to the end, but the last part of the movie feels
rushed and really rather silly, in a slapstick kind of way. First the
townsfolk hate Tilly then they love her, then they hate her, then
they're back pleading with her to make costumes to save the town's
pride ... Honestly, I felt like I was getting whiplash trying to keep
up with it.

The other distracting aspect is that Kate Winslet is looking her age
and while she's still fabulous, Liam Hemsworth is 15 years younger than
she is in real life, and it's just not remotely believable that they
were children of a similar age growing up together. Winslet was
probably wearing her first makeup and heels, the day Hemsworth was
born.

On the plus side, Winslet gives a flawless performance, including the
Aussie accent, which is notoriously difficult to pull off convincingly.
Meryl Strep's dreadful attempt at an Aussie accent in Evil Angels just
proved how hard it is to do. All credit to Winslet. And it was fabulous
seeing Judy Davis on the screen again. The fight between the two of
them before the bath scene was hilarious.
