
The only thing which bothered me a little bit about this movie was that
the restaurant owner of a French restaurant somewhere in the
countryside is played by an English actress. And I love Helen Mirren.
There are some weird language situations which do not make sense.
Otherwise I thoroughly enjoyed this little comedy about two of my
favorite foods. I could not decide on which side of the street I wanted
to eat.

As a senior citizen myself I am always happy when a movie is carried by
people my age. And boy do Helen Mirren and Om Puri carry this movie. If
you want to spend pleasant two hours in the company of entertaining
people and pictures of delicious food, you will have a good time seeing
this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first noticed the ratings on IMDb, my expectations before
watching the movie were substantially toned down. I went to the movie
with a rather unassuming frame of mind, hoping something good would
come out of from the two hours I planned to spend. 

But, I must say that ratings do not hand down the justice the movie
deserves. The story is set in south France, and narrates a clash of two
beautiful cultures via its respective culinary grandeur. Further
embellished into the story line are two very beautiful actors. Overall,
the movie leaves a very refreshing taste in the end. The entire movie
has a very subtle and harmonious tone, with no significant ups or
downs, clash or surprises. Its a very easy to watch, light movie that
can be enjoyed with the entire family. 

I feel this movie presents an excellent characterization of the type of
globalization our society has come to bear. Unfortunately, as embodied
by the reviews and ratings, it appears the western audience is not yet
ready to embrace a non-western, non-Caucasian actors. I hope this
changes soon.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe no has has reviewed this already. I just saw it, and
had a great time.

There's really nothing not to like. It's a standard story of a clash
between two cultures, French and Indian cooking in this case, but
rather than just playing it out as that, we see the young Indian chef
take an interest in French haute cuisine and experiment with how he can
mix one with the other. The head of the haute gamme traditional French
restaurant located in the same small French town, played by Helen
Mirren, doesn't just fall in love with Indian cooking, as you would
expect to happen on a made-for-TV movie about this topic. She grows to
appreciate what Indian cuisine can add to classical French cuisine.

She also has certain important French Republican values that make her a
more interesting character. She does not hesitate to try to ruin the
opening of the rival, Indian restaurant. But when that restaurant is
attacked by racists with cries of "France for the French," part of the
current Nationalist discourse, she fires the person she believes to
have been involved in it and publicly washes away the Nationalist
graffiti sprayed at the entrance to the Indian restaurant. (This is one
of the many important scenes that are new with the movie and have no
equivalent of the novel.) The characters are not caricatures, in other
words.

There are times when the movie reminded me of Ratatouille - the
in-kitchen rivalry between sous-chefs, for example. (Almost the entire
subplot dealing with Hassan and Marguerite is also new with the movie
and not in the novel. The novel does mention, largely in passing, that
Hassan becomes romantically involved with the sous-chef, Marguerite.
But she is never developed as a character in the novel, does not play
any significant role in Hassan's development as a chef - it is Mme.
Mallory who gives Hassan the cook book, not Marguerite - etc.)

There were times when you could see the next step too far in advance.
It's not a perfect movie.

There were also things implied in the movie that never got developed.
Mirren's upscale French restaurant is in a typical 19th-century
bourgeois villa. The Indians establish their restaurant in what is as
clearly a southern French farm building, yet nothing is done with the
contrast between bourgeois cooking that has become detached from the
basic country cooking that would have taken place in that farmhouse and
that has always been at the basis of the greatest French haute cuisine.
(That's a theme developed nicely in Ratatouille, with the explanation
of the title dish.) The novel touches on that theme from time to time,
but never does anything with it either, and in fact seems to forget
about it for long stretches. It's not a well-constructed novel. The
movie script is much better, frankly.

That the movie does not develop this theme is particularly surprising
because the very clear architectural contrast between the two
restaurants is also new with the movie. In the novel, the Indian family
opens their restaurant in another 19th century bourgeois house,
described repeatedly as a "mansion," very similar to the one occupied
by the two-Michelin-star traditional French restaurant. They are
located across from each other, as in the movie, but in the middle of
town, not out in the country. If the director - or whoever - of the
movie decided to shift the locale so that he could put the Indians and
their restaurant in what is very clearly an old farm house, why was
this symbolism not developed?

There are, in fact, many very significant changes from the novel,
interesting ones. Among other Academy Awards for which this movie
should at least be nominated is Best Adaptation of Previously-existing
material, or whatever that award is called. The script of this movie is
very intelligent, but also very different from the section of the novel
from which it was derived.

All the acting is good to first class.

It's a feel-good movie, yes, but a well-made one. Better, for example,
than "Chef", which deals with some of the same issues, but not as well.

Go see it. But be prepared to leave hungry ;)
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is filled with the joys and sorrows that accompany a full
life. The acting is excellent. I could not fault a single actor. Even
those delivering one liners seemed divested in the story. The
photography and music are spectacular. A. R. Rahman showed even more
depth and diversity than usual in his deep and varied score, and I kept
wishing that I could freeze frame some of the amazing shots from the
film so that I could take them home to use as inspiration for a
painting. Plus, food has never looked more yummy! The story is touching
and kept my interest from beginning to end. The messages contained
within are subtle but definitely there, and they are positive and
uplifting, which is a welcome change in today's challenging world. I
fell in love with it all! Kudos! Kudos! Kudos to all!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is well-constructed, beautifully filmed, and rich in
diversity. The story is poignant and heartwarming. Its a wonderful
movie especially if you enjoy cooking movies. The critic in our local
newspaper gave the film two stars out of 5, saying it was slow and too
schmaltzy. A bit schmaltzy maybe, but who doesn't like a good love
story centered around food. The characters were perfect and seeing
Charlotte Le Bon for the first time was breathtaking. Helen Mirren was
her normal fabulous self. the Indian cast was excellent. Besides Steven
Spielberg and Oprah Winfrey do not invest or make 2 star movies. We
plan to see this movie again since the writing was so good we may have
missed something.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is titled "A Hundred Foot Journey", and it's not just the
protagonists in the movie who will embark on a journey, but so will
you, the moviegoer. You will laugh, you will smile, you will wonder,
and you will be immersed in the surroundings of a picturesque small
town in the mountains of France where two beautiful (and delicious!)
cultures clash, mingle, and eventually harmonize. In short, you will
view a Hollywood Â– Bollywood fusion that is done so well that you will
ask for more. 

The movie weaves in light-hearted humor throughout, yet honestly
depicts the awkwardness and tension between the newly arrived Indian
family and the local French townspeople. The struggles faced by the
Indian diaspora, so prevalent in Bollywood today, is explored with
sincerity and comedy. Helen Mirren was great, but for me the star was
Om Puri, who pulled off the role of an immigrant father to perfection.
Having grown up with an Indian father abroad, I know that the struggle
of adjusting to a new country while holding dearly to your values and
culture is not an easy one, and often results in a complicated mix of
motives, values and ideals in those individuals. Yet Om Puri strikes a
perfect note. His lines are probably the most memorable in the movie.

To summarize, the movie is a must watch!
<|_=00=_|>
When this movie was announced, I was honestly just going to watch
because of Om Puri. However, the plot of the movie is so well written,
Om Puri was just a extra bonus. This movie has humor that just comes
out naturally, but it also shows lots of emotions. This movie hit me
home and I am pretty sure it will hit home to others as well. The
casting is very well picked and I really enjoyed this film with my
family. It is one of those movies you can watch with your family, and
just relax and enjoy. There were some plot holes and other things you
might find odd, but the whole movie as a whole was well made. A R
Rahman also never disappoints with the movie score. 

Verdict: Well Written, Well Made, Enjoyable film. For foodies and the
families of anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Helen Mirren and Om Puri, Manish Dayal, worked so well on the screen
together . It was a treat to watch and with all the big name movies out
the same week it was definitely a treasure . The casting and the
writing and directing was perfect . It was well worth the ticket
watching it in the show . If you make it out to the theater in the next
few weeks here is one treat I can promise you wont be disappointed in .
The storyline works along with the cast making it come to life . It has
all you need to feel good , comedy, drama , and a good ending . So if
you are looking for something this weekend for something new and
different this is it .
<|_=00=_|>
The famous director, Lasse Hallstrom has done it again,creating this
masterpiece. A delight that will please all the senses with a backdrop
of Southern France thrown in for eye candy. Talented, respected,
British star Mirren is at her best showing her uncanny ability in
artfully playing a French woman with impeccable taste, in this funny
but moving romance of haute-cuisine. The ensemble Bollywood cast with
star Om Puri and fresh new faces of handsome Manish Dayal and beautiful
Canadian Charlotte La Bon are added to this charming film based on
love, food, marketing, cultural differences and acceptance. Mirren
shows us she is a worthy match with American Merle Streep in their
quest for challenging roles. With Spielberg and Winfrey behind this
project is it any wonder it could be anything less than a success?
Surely one of 2014's "must see" films.
<|_=00=_|>
My having spent time in both India (including Mumbai) and in villages
in the south of France, I thoroughly enjoyed revisiting them in this
charming movie. Despite cultural differences, at heart we are all the
same.

The stunning cinematography is a beautiful backdrop for the unfolding
of this more or less straightforward, "simple" story. I was captivated
from the moment the movie started right through the closing credits.

The premise, the script, the acting, the setting, the cinematography,
the music,. . . . I found the entire package a treat! Not to say that
there aren't scenes of great pathos, but it is a pleasure to leave a
theatre with the feeling of having been entertained in an uplifting
way.

It might just be that the target audience is those of us who are known
as being of "a certain age", but anybody who appreciates the finer
things in life will probably enjoy The Hundred-Foot Journey.
