
At some point of action stars' life, they are bound to have adventure
with their estranged daughters, just like Liam Neeson or Kevin Costner
did. Those expecting a level of action production for action
blockbuster might be disappointed, but the saving grace comes in
unexpected engaging drama and an adequate crime thriller.

Nick (Vince Vaughn) is a planner for heist, he scouts the place, sets
up escape routes, then sells the whole gig to another party. His recent
buyer is caught up dead and now mobster and police are chasing Nick,
who immediately grabs his daughter before making a run for it. This may
seem like ordinary scheme, however it creates several chances, which
unfortunately only a handful of them bear fruit.

The action is not great, one can see from the first brawl that the
choreography is tedious. It's definitely not the caliber of high pace
fisticuffs or intense shootout. In fact, any fighting seems a bit
underwhelming and might even be detrimental to thriller aspect the
movie is setting up for.

Surprisingly, the drama holds up nicely, especially the father-daughter
bond between Vince Vaughn and Hailee Steinfeld. They have good
chemistry and it shows a progression of their characters. Its mystery
thriller works as well, while it's not complicated it is a decent crime
story. Furthermore, there are some veteran actors here like Bill Paxton
and Terrence Howard to name a few.

This star-studded movie is sadly lacking in action, although drama and
cast do admirable job on giving it a lifeline.
<|_=00=_|>
You really don't think Vince Vaughn when you think of action movies,
even though he's a big solid guy. What makes it work is the fact that
the movie is really about a dad trying to bond with his astray daughter 

Vaughn plays a crook who is framed by crooked cops for killing a real
bad guy's son, and he has to protect his daughter from the really bad
guy looking to do an eye for an eye type thing.

Vince Vaughn and Hailee Steinfeld are a great pair on the screen as two
strangers who are learning to become father and daughter. Lots of
chucks of the movie deal with that and it was quite good.

The movie is filled with lots of familiar faces in small roles, like
Empire's, Terrance Howard and Taraji P. Henson, Bill Paxton and Mike
Epps. Although it does not make the movie all that better.

Overall, despite the action crime drama elements, and his bad hair cut,
it's a Vince Vaughn movie. If you like Vince you'll like the movie
despite the fact that he's trying something different with the role.
<|_=00=_|>
I just found this movie to be filled with hackneyed dialogue and shop
worn and often ridiculous plot elements. There's nothing here that we
haven't seen so many times before in other films.

Vince Vaughn, who often delivers his lines here like an automaton,
stars as Nick Barrow, who's a professional heist planner. However, his
latest caper, that he planned and sold to the son of a Mexican cartel
boss, has gone terribly wrong and he finds himself on the run from not
only the cartel boss but a group of crooked Atlanta detectives.

Hailee Steinfeld co-stars as Nick's 16-year-old estranged daughter
Cate, who, due to certain circumstances finds herself caught up in it
all, and will have to go on the lam with her father. The remainder of
the movie will have them either running from or confronting all those
after them, while they, of course, do a little father-daughter bonding.

Overall, the film for me was just a rehash of tired plot elements, and
the whole thing was an uninspiring watch.
<|_=00=_|>
"You're a thief, right? That's what mom said. You steal stuff, right?
Yeah. You must really suck at it."

"Term life" is such a kind of movie that makes me think deeply the next
day, just because I can't remember the title anymore. Let alone I
remember anything significant content wise. At first I didn't even feel
like watching this comical crime film, due to the presence of Vince
Vaughn. He isn't exactly my favorite actor. Lets say he already got on
my nerves in "The internship" and "Wedding Crashers". But ultimately I
must admit that his presence was quite bearable in this film. He really
doesn't look like a criminal and I was afraid he would come up with
something semi-comic (which wouldn't be funny anyway). But fortunately
this wasn't the case. There are also some well-known actors present,
even though their roles are meaningless after all.

Nick Barrow (Vince Vaughn) isn't what you'd call an active criminal,
but rather a criminal standing at the sidelines. He constructs
robberies and burglaries. In short, he observes the target, makes the
planning (complete with electrical schematics, codes and timing) and
sells it to the highest bidder. After a robbery ends badly with the
participating criminals being eliminated and the loot totally gone,
it's time for Nick to make his escape as quickly as possible. One of
the dead criminals appears to be the son of Victor Fuentes (Jordi
Molla), the big chief of a Mexican drug cartel. Add to this a gang of
corrupt cops and you understand that Nick is actually in big trouble.
The only one he's worried about the most, is his daughter. He hasn't
talked to her for years now and only has a collection of photos in a
shoe-box which he made secretly. A new life insurance is his solution.
His only concern is to stay alive the next three weeks in the company
of his rebellious daughter.

As mentioned before, a whole bunch of famous actors joined this
"overgrown by genres" film. You'll see Jon "Chef" Favreau for about 3
minutes. Jonathan "Breaking Bad" Banks plays one of the most
interesting parts. A kind of sidelined criminal who's so good-natured
to help Nick and to provide some inside information. If there's one
person who has the most funny dialogue lines, then it's him. The most
successful rendition is played by Bill Paxton. A perfect portrait of a
corrupt cop who's doing everything to prevent that he's being condemned
by the "Internal affairs". Even if this is detrimental to his partners
in crime

"Term Life" is simply a typical action movie with some forced comedy.
And finally they've mixed it with a cheesy family drama. The type of
family film about a father-daughter relationship that went wrong. In
the beginning the teenage daughter is always p*ssed at the ever-absent
father. So expect some embarrassing moments for Nick who tries to pick
up the pieces as a responsible and caring father. The final outcome is
as predictable as the fact that Easter Monday will be this year on a
Monday. This insignificant movie suffocated itself with the hodgepodge
of genres. I guess they weren't really fully aware of which direction
they finally wanted to go. And it's really not a good sign when a
ridiculous hairdo draws the most attention of movie lovers.

More reviews here : http://bit.ly/1KIdQMT
<|_=00=_|>
Due to the huge success obtained by super-heroes in the big screen, we
hadn't seen a film based on a "mature" comic (ie, not including cloaks,
super-powers or cosmic battles) in various years. Term Life is based on
an "adult" graphic novel (from Image Comics) written by Andy Lieberman
and illustrated by Nick Thornborrow. Lieberman himself adapted the
screenplay, and along with director Peter Billingsley, they were able
to create a very entertaining movie which makes the comic justice
despite altering many of its elements. Some changes are small details,
while other ones substantially change the premise (the affairs of the
life insurance and the 21 days are barely mentioned in the film).
However, the differences ended up being irrelevant, because Term Life
made me have quite a good time and left me satisfied. I had found Vince
Vaughn unable to play serious roles until I saw him in the second
season of True Detective, and I changed my mind. His performance in
Term Life displays once more his capacity to handle the drama and the
action with equal credibility. Hailee Steinfeld also makes a competent
work as his daughter, and she has a good chemistry with Vaughn. The
interaction between father and daughter is the dramatic axis of Term
Life, and it makes it more interesting than a simple tale about
betrayal and criminal revenge. But that doesn't mean that the criminal
aspect is neglected either; on the opposite, the initial robbery
planned by the main character is well planned, and its consequences are
ingenious and unexpected. In the supporting cast, we find many solid
character actors (Jonathan Banks, Jon Favreau, Bill Paxton, Terrence
Howard, Mike Epps, Taraji P. Henson and Jordi Moll√†) who enrich the
experience with their mere presence. Comparing it to other films based
on thriller or action comics (without super- heroes), I would place
Term Life above The Losers, but below A History of Violence or Road to
Perdition. However, as I said on the beginning of this review, the
comic origin is just a cultural curiosity; despite not being a great
movie, Term Life works pretty well as an interesting thriller with good
performances, dynamic direction and a well written screenplay, so I
recommend it with confidence.
<|_=00=_|>
Have a bit of a hard time wrapping around my feelings about this movie,
while it is nice to see Vince Vaughn in something different; I'm not
100% sure I buy it.

He's not bad but I'm not sure that this will be his new 'thing'
exactly, even though I suppose he's a notch above the current state of
Bruce Willis and Nic Cage for instance (who would feel a bit more
typical choices to lead this kind of movie). 

As far as the plot goes it's perfectly acceptable for a direct to DVD
type of action-thriller but not much more than that, the plot involves
a fairly typical scenario; criminal father trying to re-connect with an
estranged daughter and getting her caught up in danger in the process.

Hailee Steinfeld plays the daughter in this case and she's played a
role like that before, in the Kevin Costner driven flick '3 Days To
Kill', I prefer this slightly though I think.

One thing that lead me to want to see this movie was the fact that Jon
Favreau's name was attached to it (Vince and Jon have of course had a
long history of working together so I thought it would be fun to see
them together again) but he's only in it for like 7 minutes.

No the main focus is of course Vaughn and Steinfeld the other players
come and go, for instance Taraji P Henson and Annabeth Gish only got
one scene each in it.

So yeah all and all even though it's nothing that will make you go wow
and the thing that stands out the most is Vince Vaughn (and his
terrible hair-do) it's still acceptable entertainment if you don't ask
for anything more than that.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. Just wow. How do big name actors get involved in b-movie fare like
this? Usually it is money. I don't know the reason for their getting
involved in this movie's failure, if it was money then I have to wonder
why they hired an inexperienced writer for the screenplay? Because that
is the main fault of this movie. The screenplay is based on a graphic
novel and I have to imagine the comic book is nowhere near as
unbelievable as this hack screenplay. Because the story in the movie
relies on supposed smart people doing things they wouldn't do but do
them because apparently because the writer couldn't come up with
anything better to get where he wanted to go. 

Take for example the desire to create tension to heighten the emotion
of the viewers. You can either make the characters act true to normal
human behavior or you could have them all of sudden make insane
decisions because you are too incompetent of a writer to get where you
want to go by making a more complex story, so you have characters all
of sudden do foolish things that make no sense for those characters.
For example let's say the characters are supposed to be not insane and
not dumber then a 3 year old, to then all of sudden have them act as if
they are. in order to get them in certain situations - is the laziest
type of hack writing. The total reliance on these gimmicky hack writing
situations makes people lose interest - because you can't accept it as
real people - you think "this is just a stupid movie written by hack."
Add to that the unimaginative and lackluster "cinematography" and you
end up with a movie that is dumb, unattractive,acted like it was
written in a couple days by a drunk, and shot in a week at most. A
waste of time for everyone involved, this is a very amateur production
with big name stars - which maybe is the fault of Hollywood insiders
doing friends a favor and hiring talent behind the camera to go along
with talent in front. Or maybe they ran out of money after hiring all
the big name stars and had nothing left for people who know how to
write, direct, and shoot a movie that is higher quality then the worst
episode of CSI. An up and coming A-lister like Hailee Steinfeld needs
to find new representation if she is too busy to read scripts and
relies on them to find her projects above this level of junk. This is
something you expect to see from washed up actors or no-names, not
A-listers. This is not bad enough to be seen as entertaining because of
it's ridiculousness, it is simply bland and dumb.
<|_=00=_|>
A very surprising movie. With a father/daughter rocky relationship at
the heart of the movie and a great cast of actors that must have done
this because they like each other and not the money. Low budget but
well used scenery and sets. I am not a Vince Vaughn fan so I was
surprised that I liked him in the role. But it was Hailee Steinfeld
that steals every scene she is in. Which is saying something with a
cast that includes Bill Paxton, Jon Favreau the great character actor
Jonathan Banks as the crusty friend/mentor to Vaughn. Even the dynamic
duo from Empire,Taraji P Henson and Terrence Howard have some fun. This
movie is more formula then substance but it is very entertaining. I
think that Term Life has more life in it than some of the other reviews
say it has. I hope you will try this movie out. Hopefully you will be
surprised too.
<|_=00=_|>
¬∞No Spoilers but be warned anyway¬∞

Tho watchable this was utterly mediocre and unremarkable. The story
barely keeps afloat, the acting is so so .. although Hailee Steinfeld
certainly made an effort and Vince didn't do anything crazy .. and
maybe that's just the problem. The movie is decent but a bit bland. The
imagery isn't anything with the word awe in it and the dialogues
certainly do not stand out in any way. In spite of that, there were
genuine good intentions and pleasant people to watch. It may get you
through a lost hour without tears or anything dramatic like that

It seems the IMDb person approving my review has edited the last part
out! without even saying a word. I was addressing the fact I think it's
ridiculous reviews should be at least 10 lines long, and that I feel
IMDb should be glad we are writing reviews, for free. It 's fine if you
disagree with me but don't make my text disappear like a thief in the
night. Thank you
<|_=00=_|>
Nick Barrow (Vince Vaughn) doesn't commit the heists, he just sets them
up and charges a hefty sum for this service. Allejandro (William Levy)
son of a Mexican drug lord Victor ( Jordi Molla) buys Nick's plan. The
job is pulled off, but at the escape pad others come in and kill
everyone including Allejandro. Now Nick is being hunted by drug lord
Victor as he wants Nick to lead him to the man who came up with the job
that killed his son. Nick knows Cate (Hailee Steinfeld) his daughter is
now in danger and will be used to get to him. 

I had a hard time believing this was Vince Vaughn as his hairdo made
him not look like Vince Vaughn. Still it almost looked like him. I
decided that I would wait for this Vince Vaughn as Nick to talk a
million miles a second as the real Vince Vaughn always does that in
those dumb comedies he's in. Never happened. He played a good dramatic
role and I was happy about that. He almost reminded me of a Joe Don
Baker portrayal. 

Now daughter Cate, at age 16, wants nothing to do with Nick as he
hasn't been around for the past 12-years. Nick is divorced with wife in
rehab. Nick's job is to protect Cate at all costs. Note the title of
this movie.

Nick and Cate go into hiding and It was extremely enjoyable watching
the chemistry between them and we knew she would warm to him in time.
(We can only hope)

There isn't too much action in here and we enjoy Cate, who now finally
believes they are really in danger. Nick needs to clear his name and he
keeps getting blamed for other killings as the Police are after him
too. 

There is no twist as we come to know who those original killers were
who killed Allejandro, the drug lord's son. Nick knows who, but how to
prove it?

Notables: Jon Favreau as Jimmy Lincoln who helped find the heist; Bill
Paxton as Detective Keenan; Jonathan Banks as Harper, Nick's friend;
and Terrance Howard as Sheriff Braydon.

Okay, okay there is a downside. When all was said and done there was no
mention of Nick changing his ways and not do the planning for heists
anymore. Did someone say "sequel?"

Very good story and acting all around and we like it when we see a
father do everything to keep a child safe. Vince Vaughn is good in
dramatic roles and he should do more drama and change that hairdo.
(Agreed) (7/10)

Violence: Yes. Sex: No. Nudity: No. Language: No.
