
A cute and smart rabbit Judy Hopps is so ambitious and intelligent.She
wants to become a police officer. No bunnies ever before became police
officers in the animal world of Zootopia because they are not strong
enough. But Judy doesn't care what other people and animals think about
her . She wants to overcome the prejudice and bigotry that a rabbit is
small and weak animal and thus is not fit to become a police officer.

She's determined to make her dream come true, but unfortunately for
her,she faces problems. She caught a convicted Fox who has already
committed a crime, and gave him the option that she can help him to
avoid jail imprisonment if only he can definitely help her in finding
the missing animals. As a result, the fox and the bunny become friends
and because of the intelligence of the amazing Judy (the bunny) she
cleverly tamed the sly fox and attracted him to do the good and to
refrain from doing evil especially after he fell in love with this
yummy bunny Judy.

Zootopia is best of the best for the spectacular
cinematography,impressive story,enchanting music and stunning acting.
<|_=00=_|>
A Terrific Movie From The Great Walt Disney Pictures.

In The World Of Zootopia,all kinds of animals live in peaceful harmony.

There is no kind of racism or violence:" It is a perfect world where
love,equality and peace of mind rule".

It is true that peace can never happen in any place in the world if
there is oppression,racism,inequality and discrimination.

Walt Disney Pictures clearly delivers a useful moral of
love,unity,integrity and peace of mind.

This Top movie also stresses on the fact that drugs are harmful.

Zootopia tells the story of a rabbit named Judy Hopps (Goodwin) who
wants to be the first rabbit cop, so she joins the ZPD (Zootopia Police
Department).

The smart and cute female rabbit plans to achieve justice in Zootopia.

This masterpiece movie is highly recommended for all kids and for every
adult individual in the world who seek justice,freedom and peace of
mind.

Honestly Speaking ZOOTOPIA IS INDEED A TERRIFIC WALT Disney MOVIE.
<|_=00=_|>
From the studio that brought you Tangled, Wreck-It Ralph, Frozen & Big
Hero 6, Zootopia surfaces as a highly original, incredibly refreshing,
thoroughly engaging, surprisingly timely & delightfully subversive
beast fable about prejudice & stereotype that not only marks a new
creative high for Disney but is arguably the finest film that this
legendary animation studio has come up with in their Revival Era, so
far.

Set in a world inhabited by anthropomorphic animals, the story of
Zootopia takes place in the titular metropolis and follows a bunny cop
named Judy Hopps who, despite her par excellent performance in the
class, is assigned parking duty by her superior. But when she
volunteers to undertake a missing-predator case, she is given 48 hours
to solve the mystery or resign, following which she blackmails a sly
fox into helping her, and uncovers a sinister conspiracy.

Co-directed by Byron Howard & Rich Moore, the duo put up an intriguing
world on the screen that does have a fresh quality but there is still a
deep sense of familiarity to it. However, where the two leave a lasting
impression is in finding that perfect balance between its consistently
gripping storyline & moments of pure hilarity. The writing staff also
deserves a mention, for their screenplay brims with numerous pop
culture references, parodies many renowned classics & handles its
topical themes with care.

The 3D animation is absolutely top-notch, for the images retain its
crispness, clarity & vibrancy from beginning to end. The animators put
up a vast number of characters on the screen, ranging from the largest
elephant to the smallest shrew, yet they are all given a well-defined
arc. Cinematography further enhances the overall look n feel of the
story with its fluid camera-work, splendid use of colour palette &
spot-on lighting. Editing provides just enough screen time to all the
relevant characters while moving the plot forward at a blistering pace.

The cast is wisely chosen, and all the actors do a competent job in
lending their voice & soul to the mammals they play. Ginnifer Goodwin
brings a bubbly side to the new cop in town and confidently plays her
role. Jason Bateman plays his part with finesse plus his voice really
fits his cynical con artist character. Also, the chemistry between the
two is a highlight in itself. Michael Giacchino's ebullient score
seamlessly blends in & compliments the narrative while Shakira
beautifully wraps everything up with a catchy, uplifting & wonderful
song that smartly summarises its themes & message.

On an overall scale, Zootopia finds Disney stepping out of its comfort
zone to tackle a bold, ambitious & risky project, and it is one gamble
that pays off tremendously well in the studio's favour. Also, its
arrival couldn't have been better, considering how its elements of
prejudice & stereotypes mirror the racial hostilities present in our
very own current social environment. An ingenious blend of
sophisticated storytelling, jubilant humour & thought-provoking themes
that amazes, entertains & enlightens without ever compromising with the
fun factor, Zootopia is a definite delight for viewers of all ages, and
is undoubtedly the best film of the year, so far. Strongly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
In a world populated by anthropomorphic mammals, Judy Hopps, a rabbit
from rural Bunnyburrow, fulfills her dream of becoming the first rabbit
officer in the police department of nearby city Zootopia. However, upon
arrival, she is assigned parking duty by Chief Bogo, an African
buffalo, who doubts her potential due to her being a rabbit and thus
smaller than most of the large animals on the force. During one of her
shifts, she meets Nick Wilde, a con artist fox.

Hopps abandons her shift to arrest a thief, Duke Weaselton. She is
reprimanded by Bogo and nearly fired until Mrs. Otterton, an otter,
arrives pleading for help locating her missing husband Â– one of many
animals recently missing in Zootopia. To Bogo's dismay, Hopps
volunteers and agrees to resign if she cannot solve the case within 48
hours. She sees Wilde in the last known photo of Otterton and tracks
him down, coercing him into to assisting her with the investigation.

After acquiring Mr. Otterton's license plate number, Hopps and Wilde
track the vehicle to Mr. Big, an Arctic shrew crime boss. Mr. Big
informs the pair that Otterton, his florist, had gone savage and
attacked his chauffeur Manchas, a black jaguar. Hopps and Wilde locate
Manchas, who mentions "night howlers" were responsible for attacking
him before he goes savage and chases the pair out of his home. When
Bogo and his reinforcements arrive, Manchas disappears. Bogo demands
Hopps resign, but Wilde takes a stand, insisting they have 10 more
hours to solve the case. As the pair leaves, Hopps learns from Wilde
that he was bullied by prey animals as a pup and became a criminal,
believing he would be stereotyped as one no matter what due to being a
fox.

Wilde realizes that the city's traffic camera system may have captured
Manchas's disappearance, and the pair consult Assistant Mayor
Bellwether, a sheep. They identify the captors as wolves, hence "night
howlers". Hopps and Wilde locate the missing mammals (including Mr.
Otterton) at Hillside Asylum. All are predators, and all have gone
savage like Manchas. The two discover Mayor Lionheart consulting with a
doctor about the predators' condition. The pair escape with the
evidence and the police swarm the area, arresting Lionheart.

Having developed a friendship with Wilde throughout the case, Hopps
requests that he joins the Zootopia Police Department and become her
partner, which Wilde happily considers. However, during a press
conference, Hopps mentions that the savage animals are predators and
argues they have gone back to their "natural state." Wilde is hurt and
angrily walks out on her offer. Fear and discrimination against
predators spreads across Zootopia, and a guilt-ridden Hopps resigns.
During this time, pop singer Gazelle holds a peaceful protest and
publicly asks for the harmonious Zootopia she loves to be restored.

Back in Bunnyburrow, Hopps learns that "night howlers" are flowers that
have a severe psychotropic effects on mammals. Hopps returns to
Zootopia and reconciles with Wilde. They locate Weaselton and learn
that he has been collecting night howlers for a secret laboratory. The
pair discover the lab and find ram scientists creating a night howler
serum, which has been injected into predators via dart guns. Hopps and
Wilde race to the ZPD with the evidence, but the rams pursue them.

Just short of the ZPD, the pair encounters Bellwether, who tries to
take the evidence. Realizing Bellwether is the mastermind of a
species-supremacist conspiracy, Hopps and Wilde try to flee, but
Bellwether shoots a dart at Wilde and calls the ZPD for help. Wilde
becomes savage and corners Hopps, but it turns out the pair were acting
and had swapped out Bellwether's darts for blueberries. With
Bellwether's confession recorded on Hopps's carrot pen, the two have
enough evidence to unravel the conspiracy.

Some months later, Hopps is reinstated into the ZPD. The savaged
mammals are cured. Lionheart is cleared of all charges and is
reinstated as mayor. Wilde joins the ZPD as the first fox officer and
Judy's new partner. In the final scene, all of Zootopia enjoys a
performance by Gazelle, who dances with four tigers.
<|_=00=_|>
"Zootopia" is simply the best animated movie of the year 2016 because
the animation was terrific,the acting was mesmerizing and the plot was
impressively perfect.

A female bunny Judy Hopps faces discrimination from other prejudiced
and bigoted animals who made fun of her size and could not believe her
strong determination to be a cop.

since Judy is brainy and has a strong will to be a successful cop,she
made a deal with a sly fox to get what she wants.

When the genius and the yummy bunny Judy became a policewoman,she was
so just and confident in dealing with other animals and soon she
receives all the estimation from all the animals including the
previously prejudiced animals who underestimated it.
<|_=00=_|>
From the largest elephant to the smallest shrew, the city of Zootopia
is a mammal metropolis where various animals live and thrive. When Judy
Hopps (Ginnifer Goodwin) becomes the first rabbit to join the police
force, she quickly learns how tough it is to enforce the law.
Determined to prove herself, Judy jumps at the opportunity to solve a
mysterious case. Unfortunately, that means working with Nick Wilde
(Jason Bateman), a wily fox who makes her job even harder.

I am absolutely sure Zootopia Will Be Number 1 In All Countries Of The
World Without Any Exaggeration.

Since This Movie is The Production Of Disney,it has to be perfect.
<|_=00=_|>
I hadn't planned on seeing this film (I feel we are over-saturated with
animated films these day, most of them mediocre), but I looked on as my
kids watched it. This is a really fine film. It takes on issues of
prejudice and cultural diversity. Zootopia is a city where animals live
side by side, predator and prey. It is not a utopia because law and
order is necessary. A little female rabbit messes with the male
dominated police force. She is put on duty as a meter maid and realizes
sexism along with her species is under attack. She is feisty and
eventually hooks up with a con-man fox (the least trusted species) whom
she enlists to help her solve a kidnapping case. Actually, it's otter
napping. In the process, she reveals her own prejudices and hurts her
partner. The movie has stunning animation and intelligent dialogue and
lots of social references. Very good stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
Plot: In a city of anthropomorphic animals, a rookie bunny cop and a
cynical con artist fox must work together to uncover a conspiracy.

This was a film that I was hoping would be good, since most trailers
can trick you these days but this film surpassed my expectations. Each
of the voice actors do a wonderful job playing their characters, the
standouts are Ginnifer Goodwin who plays a really likable and relatable
character and Jason Bateman who plays a character that is at fist
unlikable but manages to improve throughout the film. This is not your
typical kids film, it doesn't have the bathroom jokes like in most kids
films. The script is smartly written and uses the message effectively
unlike others which beats you over the head with theirs.

Zootopia is one of my favorite films of the year, if you haven't seen
it, give it a chance it's not your typical kids film which is what I
like, I just wish more of them were like this.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this movie far more than i expected to.

Things i liked.

The relationship between judy hopps and nick wilde was really special
and i enjoyed watching their interaction and growing friendship, they
are both as heroic and smart as one another and although judy is this
adventurous and outgoing go getter type of character for a few brief
scenes she also had an emotional side i think it was delivered with
great balance. I take zero pleasure admitting tears were in my eyes
throughout this movie.

The humour although present throughout was never shoved down your
throat which lead to a nice upbeat and colourful atmosphere and that's
not to mention all the great design decisions behind the world created
here. For example Ergonomics with giraffes in mind e.g a funnel to
deliver a drink from ground level to giraffe height and small doors for
mice. People should watch this movie for the world alone.

I could continue to shower this gem with praise but instead i'll list
the things that bothered me about this film, the first thing is that
the film was too short like no really i wish this film lasted an hour
or so longer, the plot seems incredibly rushed at the end i never saw
the plot twist coming and didn't predict the direction the film would
go down but i feel it's because the culprit behind it all has come and
gone within 5 minutes is arrested there's no build up or tension in the
uncovering of the secrets behind the commotion which is a shame. I also
feel like the chief of police was a relatively poor character and most
of the characters in the film could do with more fleshing out.

All things said and done go watch this it is great.
<|_=00=_|>
While I haven't really been a fan of western pictures since 3D replaced
2D, Zootopia won me over with its incredible charm and quirky setting.
The humour and animation were on point - and I found the characters
extremely likable, to the point I could easily overlook the somewhat
predictable plot.

Worth every star it earned on this site.
