
There are several ways to create dramatic interest in film, not all are
reliant on the old theatrical modes. There are docudramas and movies
that are like magazine stories, which narrate stories over several
decades to give a complete tale.

Scorsese said once that he thought American movies were more like
magazine articles with pictures in that they told a story rather than
created drama. From the director of "Casino", which really is the
magazine style movie par excellence, that is an insight.

It is possible to create tension and engagement with this style, even
when reduced to a small episodic tale. In books this can work well
because the author does the meta-narration, which is the interpretation
of action. It is a difficult task to make cinematic and so it is with 5
Flights Up, or Ruth and Alex.

While this style may work on the page, in that clear, bland, non-style
of glossy magazine commercial fiction, its lack of a center leaves the
movie vacuous. Superficially, the story of moving apartments and
juggling brokers might seem enough but it isn't. It's too mundane and
property is a weak idea to make an entire movie function. Imagine if
Lady Macbeth and the Thane of Cawdor had got into a castle moving
story: she preoccupied with cleaning up the blood stains for the new
tenants, he unable to move all his knives, shields and swords out to
make the castle look bigger.

This is a small, dull film, with all the pace and visual qualities of
wallpaper paste. It has frittered the talents of its cast. Ruth and
Alex is a very slight story that didn't really deserve to be made into
a film and doesn't deserve anyone's time.
<|_=00=_|>
I expected a quirky little movie here. The summary seemed to be
something that would interest me. Boy was I wrong.

So basically, an older couple is looking to sell their New York City
(Brooklyn) apartment. Why? Well, because it has five flights of stairs
and they are a little concerned about their health. OK. Reasonable
enough. As far as I know, they have no other reason. They both do not
particularly want to move, in fact they love their apartment. Right, so
why are they moving? oh yea, the stairs.

The movie continues by showing how the couple moved to the apartment
over 40 years ago, it shows flashbacks of their earlier years and all
the fond memories they have. But, you know, 5 flights of stairs. The
have an annoying as hell real estate agent who has an open house in
their apartment. For some reason, everyone, except a sweet little girl
are a$$holes. Everyone. I'm not sure why they made it this way, but
they were all jerks. I didn't get that. Unless that's how the general
populous of NYC is considered? No idea. Never been there Then they
start looking for a new apartment. They find one they like, even though
they say nothing will ever be as good as our apartment (then why the
f*^k are you moving?!!!). I was almost shouting at the TV about how
idiotic this move is! It's all about two people moving, who don't want
to move. And if you can't guess what happens in the end? let me just
say that there is no point to this movie. None.

Oh, and for some reason there's a dog who has surgery and a potential
terrorist.

Pass.
<|_=00=_|>
If I were to say that 5 Flights Up was a loosely structured film
involving an aging couple, the real estate market, hectic home bidding,
terrorism, a dog with lethal problems, interracial marriage, and
painting, you'd probably be endlessly confused. However, I wouldn't be
misleading you nor would I be shortchanging the film's story. For a
film with an A-list cast and from a fairly large studio, it's strange
for something like this to be so largely plot less and breezy, yet so
thematically impacting. If nothing else, the film furthers my belief
that you ultimately don't need a concrete plot or "point-A-to-point-B"
style events to make an impacting film; you need strong characters or
strong dialog, but if you have two, you're golden.

The film focuses on Ruth and Alex Carver (Diane Keaton and Morgan
Freeman), an older couple looking to sell their old-fashioned Brooklyn
apartment through their real estate agent Lilly (Cynthia Nixon). Due to
the apartment's location and one-of-a-kind structure, the spacious home
could be worth as much as $1 million and, under current circumstances,
both Ruth and Alex want to get as much money possible. Though it's
evident that the couple have talked selling their apartment to death,
one can tell that they're quietly heartbroken to be leaving it behind,
especially Alex, who has made one of the rooms his workstation for his
many paintings.

Both Ruth and Alex find themselves immersed in the world of real estate
buying and selling upon holding an open house and exploring other
apartments in the city. They find themselves bombarded with potential
buyers they are either not personally fond of or questioning whether or
not they will take care of the home and love it as much as they did.
While this search goes on, Ruth and Alex's dog winds up falling prey to
a ruptured disc in her back, requiring expensive surgery in addition to
the repeated coverage of a potential terrorist attack perpetrated by an
assumed Muslim extremist when a large oil tanker is left on the
Williamsburg Bridge.

Just by this description, one gets a feel of the looseness in 5 Flights
Up. It would appear that writer Charles Peters attempted to make a film
that was invested in real-life situations, particularly the kind that
come about when trying to sell a home or an apartment in the wake of
the biggest housing crisis in American history. Few films I can recall
have painted the constant struggle and fuss over selling and buying a
home in such a powerfully telling way, right down to the incessant
"bidding wars" between interested clients and the dictation of a real
estate agent. Such an experience is an endless cycle of monotony, false
leads, and confusion and director Richard Loncraine portrays it as if
the characters are operating on a field of landmines.

There's also examination of the generation gap here in a boldly subtle
way. Consider Freeman trying to prove himself and his abilities to much
younger, disinterested art buyers, or even the multitude of spoiled and
unruly young guests that come through his home. Ruth and Alex are on
their way out in numerous respects in this film, but as the film gets
going, we see that they're soon to be out of their home, their element,
and most importantly, time to prove themselves in a world that's
rapidly changing and quickly leaving people like them behind.

Much has been made about the terrorist subplot which, in many scenes,
does come out of left field and provides for a jarring tonal shift.
However, if one looks at it like in the same way an announcement of any
kind by Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellin sends financial markets
into a tizzy, one can see its relevance, even if it does add a touch of
awkwardness to the film's story.

5 Flights Up may not have the narrative structure of its
contemporaries, but it damn sure understands the current state of baby
boomers and sentimentality better than a lot of them. It's a film of
moments and strong lead performances, with Keaton and Freeman proving
through each collective and low-key scene why their performances are
always highly praised. While this is a film along the lines of the
feel-good flick you're likely predicting, just know if you're going to
have your emotions tickled by a movie, you might as well have it done
by a film that's respectful of its characters and somewhat insightful.

Starring: Diane Keaton, Morgan Freeman, and Cynthia Nixon. Directed by:
Richard Loncraine.
<|_=00=_|>
It is so refreshing to watch a film with a contemporary story that
focuses on older people and their choices and strengths instead of
seeing them act foolish or pathetic. Based on Jill Ciment's book as
adapted for the screen by Charlie Peters and directed with
straightforward good taste by Richard Loncraine, this quiet little film
is a wonderful platform for tow of our most respected actors  69 year
old Diane Keaton and 78 year old Morgan Freeman  who create an
irresistible chemistry.

Briefly, long-time happily married couple Ruth and artist Alex Carver
(Keaton and Freeman) who've spent their lives together in the same New
York apartment become overwhelmed by personal and real estate-related
issues when they plan to move away, having decided to cash in on their
sought-after Brooklyn apartment. The story opens with one of the
reasons they feel the need to move after 40 years in the '5 flights up'
apartment with no elevator: their little dog Dorothy is having
difficulty maneuvering the stairs and ends up with a slipped vertebral
disc that requires a Vet's expertise and surgery. They engage Ruth's
niece, real estate agent Lily (Cynthia Nixon, who is wonderfully,
gushingly obnoxious) and the visits to the apartment begin  all manner
of rather despicable lookie-loos traipse through and a decision must be
made. Ruth and Alex find an apartment in Manhattan that is one the 9th
floor and has an elevator, but issues arise that make them alter their
initial decision.

Beautifully understated is the fact that Ruth and Alex are childless,
entered an interracial marriage when it was not fashionable to do so,
and have grown old together making every day count. They are wonderful
and the film does them justice. It is such a pleasure to see two
seasoned and gifted actors make such an impressive statement.

Recommended for all those who think happiness is dependent on social
media based.
<|_=00=_|>
5 Flights up is overall a decent movie about an old couple who decide
its time for a change so they place there apartment for sale. 

The movie is, not bad the acting by Morgan Freeman and Diane Keaton was
superb, however what missed the mark was the storyline I mean it was
interesting and engaging at times, but thats about all it was, nothing
changed in the movie the characters stayed the same which I find makes
a movie a little boring and pointless.

If you want to see a movie with good strong acting this is it, but
don't expect a complex feel good film with a plot that really makes you
think because this is not it.
<|_=00=_|>
From the story line, it may seem that this film will be boring to kids.
But, when I started watching this film I fell in love with it. Morgan
Freeman's perfect timing of jokes and Diane Keeton's wonderful and
priceless emotions make this film entertaining and heartfelt from the
very start to the last second.

It is a bit hard to say what the main genre is. Of course, there is a
lot of romance between the two characters, Alex (Morgan Freeman) and
Ruth (Diane Keeton), there is also that funny side that makes it all
that more enjoyable. And, there is still a serious dramatic side which
keeps you on the edge of your seat till the end.

The story starts when an elderly couple, Ruth and Alex, live in a high
up, massive apartment in New York City, Brooklyn actually. However, the
five flight of stairs they need to take is getting more and more
challenging so they decide to move to a location with an elevator. To
add to the challenges, their dog is in the hospital undergoing
treatment for spinal injury.

The director, Richard Loncraine makes this movie feel authentic and
rustic and also shows how current society stereotypes elderly people,
how they truly feel about it and how wrong it is. The cast is wonderful
and the acting is just superior with serious and comedy scenes mixed
together and standing out all the time. I also like how they lightly
touch upon problems of the past as well as problems of today. For
example, Ruth and Alex got married in a time when bi- racial couples
were not welcomed with open arms. Then it shows how today a gay couple
is making an offer on a house. They submit it along with a note telling
how they tried to adopt a child and finally were able to adopt one. It
is something Ruth and Alex wanted to do when they were younger but were
denied.

My favorite scene is when they have an open house to sell their
apartment and a huge crowd of people comes through, looking at
everything and touching everything. Alex doesn't like it but Ruth tries
to see the positive side but fails. I like that scene because it shows
how the couple's life isn't perfect and also makes the film feel very
real. Not only this moment does that but many others as well.

This film has perhaps several moments of adult content but none that is
too mature. I recommend it to kids ages 10 to18 and give it 5 out of 5
stars.

Reviewed by Gerry O., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic. For more reviews by
youth, go to kidsfirst dot org.
<|_=00=_|>
Written and directed by Charlie Peters and Richard Loncraine,
respectively, "Five Flights Up" is an amiable and low-keyed urban
comedy about an aging couple reluctantly selling the New York apartment
they've lived in for forty years. Though Ruth sees this as an
opportunity to start a new chapter in their lives, Alex, a seemingly
only moderately successful painter, fights to hold onto the place,
making subtle little efforts to sabotage the sale.

Diane Keaton and Morgan Freeman make for very pleasant company indeed,
and, while the movie's insights into aging, relationships and
end-of-life downsizing aren't exactly earth-shattering, they are
certainly more than we customarily get from romantic comedies set at
the opposite end of the age spectrum. Yet, while it acknowledges the
troubles that come with aging, the film happily doesn't fixate on them
to the exclusion of all else.

Above all, the movie shows how hard it can be to leave a home and a
neighborhood after a lifetime spent setting down roots there.

And anyone who's ever endured the bureaucratic nightmare involved in
buying and selling a home will find much to relate to in the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about two old fuddy-duddies driving each other marriage
crazy after all these years. No bombs, no murders, no guts, no hot
disgusting senior sex or fumbling trysts, just good ol' times at the
end of their lives while still hitting on contemporary racial, social
and political issues.

To all you youngsters or wannabes who hated this movie because of no
porno, no graphic violence or sensational blood lusting, then just go
enlist in the army and get what you rally want first hand. Good luck.

Also a great subplot with their only child, Dorothy, their dog. These
two oldsters still got what it takes after all these years. Congrats to
you both.
<|_=00=_|>
The joy of this film is simply watching 2 consummate actors -- Morgan
Freeman and Diane Keaton -- ply their craft. Oddly enough, I didn't
like either of these actors when they were young. But in autumn, they
are choice.

The premise of the film is that an aging mixed race couple are thinking
of moving out of New York City...mostly because their apartment is now
worth $1 million, but partly because their current residence is 5
flights up...not good when you're getting old. Meanwhile, their small
dog has to have expensive surgery.

Korey Jackson is amazingly on-target as the young Morgan Freeman; I
hope we see more of him. Claire van der Boom does well as the young
Diane Keaton.

It's really quite a touching film, and I enjoyed it...except for the
ending. Morgan Freeman's character is clearly getting old, and they
turn down selling their 4 floor walk-up...despite the fact that old
people can't walk that many levels of stairs...trust me, I know.
Nevertheless, I recommend this film for mature audiences. What
impressed me was what was not emphasized...something that you just need
to get on your own -- that many of the guess who's coming to dinner
couples undoubtedly lived happy lives despite all the haters.
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent movie! I think a lot of the reviewers perhaps are under 40
yrs old or are so uptight like the buyers and sellers in this
film...??? Perhaps? What a shame they are missing out on "the view"
here as well. But it is so beautiful, that even a child can see it. A
child (& a dog being trained) that are dragged through the hectic
non-stop lives of their parent(s) what a shame for this and shame on
you if you are too busy in your own life and career to enjoy a
refreshing movie like this-SLOW DOWN!!! Enjoy the simple things in life
before it is too late, or your life slows down from a pointless
accident because of exhaustion hectic schedules and lack of sleep/ but
if that does happen rent this flic on Redbox and watch it from your
hospital bed while recuperating because then, your eyes will be open
and you will have a 2nd chance to enjoy this & your own life. It is a
whole generation of people similar to the gallery owners son in this
movie that are missing the point: Stop & smell the roses, there is more
to life than money and pleasing the masses, and being miserable with
your hectic lives that you fail to create memories as Morgan & Diane
portrayed in his film. Thank you for this! And your wonderful Film
Morgan!!!
