
In an age where astronomical budgets and A-list stars dominate the
sci-fi genre, it's seldom that you stumble across a film that strives
to present a unique vision, which is precisely why The Signal is such a
breath of fresh air. Directed by Will Eubank (who co-wrote the
screenplay), the film follows a trio of MIT students on a cross-country
trip, who decide to take a detour in order to track down and expose a
malicious hacker.

Arriving at their destination, Nic (Brenton Thwaites) and Jonah (Beau
Knapp) find nothing but an abandoned, dilapidated structure. Haley
(Olivia Cooke) elects to stay behind as the guys explore the grounds,
and just as they stumble across evidence that they're on the right
track, all hell breaks loose. 

Sometime later, Nic awakens with no memory of the previous events and
finds himself trapped in a sterile, hospital-like facility, with Haley
in a coma and Jonah held in an adjacent cell. His only point of contact
is Damon (Laurence Fishburne), the facility's mysterious administrator,
who dons a Hazmat suit for every interaction. Damon wants to know
everything about "the signal" - how Nic found it, when he first
discovered it - but Nic's only concern is getting himself and his
companions to safety.

It's nearly impossible to reveal anything more about the plot without
wandering into spoiler territory, but rest assured that The Signal does
a spectacular job of approaching familiar sci-fi tropes from a
completely different perspective. Eubank spent eight years as a
cinematographer, and his experience behind the camera combined with his
indie-film sensibilities allow him to get a tremendous amount of
mileage out of The Signal's $4 million budget.

The pacing is slow and methodical, doling out information in carefully
measured doses before opening the floodgates during the film's climax.
There are some truly breathtaking visuals here, particularly during the
third act, with one jaw-dropping shot after another building toward a
startling mindfuck of a conclusion. If you're tired of seeing Hollywood
continually rehashing the same boring sci-fi stories with new faces and
bigger budgets, then track down The Signal and buy yourself a ticket.
You won't be sorry.

-- Brent Hankins
<|_=00=_|>
"Visually arresting, methodically paced, and almost perfectly executed"
says another review here. I agree and would add well-acted, produced,
and directed. But it still doesn't quite make it as a movie, something
with a real story that is effectively delivered and is more than the
sum of its strung-together parts. Each scene is fine, but they just
seem like a string of episodes rather than a coherent story. One has
trouble getting the point and is left somewhat confused and
unsatisfied, with the final twist more baffling than impactive. I would
say that the words "inchoate" and even "incoherent" can't help but come
to mind regarding the film.

Before you write me off as someone who only likes nice linear films
where EVERYTHING is made perfectly clear and who can't handle anything
unusual, abstract, metaphoric, or different in any way, compare
"Signal" to "Dark City", the recent "Under the Skin", and even "THX
1138" (which BTW arguably has a lot of similarities to this one).

Meanwhile, for examples of films that have similar problems as
"Signal", see "Citadel" (2012), "Critical Nexus" (2013), and even
"Shuttle" (2008) or "Blair Witch Project". I would argue, tho', that
most of these, whatever their flaws, are probably more effective at
delivering a real story than "Signal". MEANWHILE, to see what a
low-budget independent sci-fi movie CAN be, see "Moon" (2009).

Finally, I was just reading a review of "Signal" in which the reviewer
mentions another director who started out with a middling low-budget
sci-fi film and has gone on to bigger and better accomplishments; he
sees similar potential in the director of "Signal". I fully agree.
Again, I think "Signal" was impressive and well worth seeing, but
doesn't quite make it to the level of a real and effective movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has a slow pace, I know. That doesn't mean it's a bad one. A
lot of people are over analysing every scene and image they see in the
movie, instead of enjoying a simple story with a lot of photography
design. Don't expect a lot of action on it, but do expect amazing
photography, immersing atmospheric story, good acting and a few good
surprises. One advice I would give is NOT watching the WHOLE TRAILER
form the movie. After 1:30 minutes it shows too much and could spoil a
lot of surprises. Just trust that the first part is to make contrast
with what is coming next. I loved the photography, was the best from
the movie by far. The story is good, and it develops interestingly. The
acting is good and everyone plays well the parts. Great job, Mr.
Eubank!

I definitely recommend to watch this, for all the sci-fi lovers, and
especially the ones that appreciate non blockbuster, plastic, clich√©
movies, and enjoy different ways of doing cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is a little slow at times, while the plot is not completely
explained or even logical sometimes, but other than that, the film is
perfect.

What I enjoyed most about the movie is that it is truly original in the
way of Monsters or District 9 were. It starts as a hacker movie,
continues as an alien encounter movie, goes into government
conspiracies, only to turn everything on its head towards the end.
While it is clearly a science fiction thriller, it feels more game like
than a movie, because you feel immersed in it. The originality and this
sensation of being in the story is something I have been missing for
years. great job!

I am not going to tell you stuff about the story, because it would
either spoil it or give you the wrong impression. You need to watch
this film. It is worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
Actually I think, it could have been something good, but it was not.

It tried to be something special, but it failed.

It has absolutely no message, no emotions no nothing, although the
director tried to create the illusion of them.

Overused slow motion, unrelated scenes cut randomly together,
theatrical music totally misplaced and overused, unfinished characters
and their background stories, no suspension at all, mixing up styles,
like he didn't know if he wants to make a "found-camera" movie, a road
trip movie, an alien abduction movie, a romantic movie, a Bonnie and
Clyde kind of movie or something else. And I could go on and on.

It just doesn't add up.

It was a boring flick, that kept me watching just because I was curious
how the aliens come into the story, but I didn't care for anything else
in between and for sure not for the characters and their well-being.
<|_=00=_|>
The Signal starts out with a very promising, if familiar, setup: 3
friends, consisting of a couple on the verge of break-up and the geeky,
requisite best friend-are en route to dropping off the girlfriend at
college for a year. Of course, we have seen the "relationship-on
the-rocks" set-up over and over before- it clearly has become a tired
device in thrillers like these(think of the beginning of "The
Strangers" or "Vacancy",-both contain arguing couples with relationship
problems finding themselves in an extraordinary situation which tests
their loyalty to each other....you know what I'm talking about).

But... let's forgive that for a second and talk about the technical
aspects of the film so far: within the first 20 minutes, let it be
stated that the cinematography, music, and pacing set a nice tone, and
I was truly impressed with how the film took it's time to create
apprehension and a feeling of something "not being right". So the
execution up until this point allowed me to forget the "relationship"
plot contrivance. However, little did I know that this was merely the
beginning and the end of any attempt at character exposition; as it
stands, not ONE character was nuanced or fleshed out after this. This
also marked the end of ANY attempt at subtlety or originality in every
aspect of the film's production. And my criticism only grows harsher
from here....

As the film progressed, I felt like I was having a really bad case of
deja voodoo because it was just so derivative of other, better films
(maybe I've just seen too many movies, but that shouldn't matter)-it
still just all felt so familiar and trite. 

And Jesus people, can we say OVER-USAGE of slow motion? While this can
be an effective technique when trying to punctuate a very dramatic plot
detail, The Signal puts the cart before the horse in this way and
misfires completely: by over-using slow-motion, and other
currently-trendy computer-generated visuals, it completely diminishes
any real tension, so that when another dramatic event DOES happen, it's
already diluted through repetition. Perhaps audience members with no
previous knowledge of films made before 1990,or simply no discernment
at all, may elicit the intended response, but this is ultimately the
result of manipulation, not craftsmanship, on the part of the director.
Instead, it feels as if he randomly peppered these contemporary, trendy
visual techniques throughout the movie,hoping his audiences will watch
with rose-tinted glasses. And the plot contrivance continues.....

The scene when the best friend, Beau Knapp's character, dies was
particularly embarrassing: first of all, his character was so
under-developed, had so little screen time, how could anybody care
about his fate? Who the hell was he? What was his background? How can I
be expected to care about him when he was merely an
artificially-created stock character-a mere clone from countless other
movies? (But wait! His death was in slow motion, there was dramatic
music that recalls scenes in epic war movies like "Saving Private
Ryan", there is the slow-motion hysterics of his friend's reactions,
the "epic-ness" of it all!)Uhmm....maybe some audiences will have a
Pavlovian response and find this compelling anyway. I didn't. I just
couldn't.

In terms of lead talent, I personally am tired of this current young
generation's nonchalant approach to acting. By underplaying emotions
impassively it's supposed to convey a certain "contemplative" or
"low-keyed"-nature, but to me it reads that the actors have limited
experience and personality to work with, the "less must be more"
concept just doesn't cut it here. How about some nuance? some
pathology? a back story?I don't know, maybe young adults these days,
with all their preoccupation with technology and precocious childhoods,
really just DON'T have as much wit and "zest-for-life" to convey as
their predecessors?(If Meryl Streep were starting out today, she would
have to be given a horse tranquilizer to reduce her energy level and
vitality to those of her peers!) 

Another example of lazy character development: Consider actress Lynne
Shay (from the Insidious films), whose character was so forced and
caricatured, it was truly painful for me to watch. Director Eubank was
obviously trying to re-create the same sort of "quirky, eerie, offbeat,
or bizarre" characters seen in David Lynch's films,but what results is
an embarrassingly amateurish carbon copy, instead of an
organically-realized creation. And what was with the clich√©d "Texas
Chainsaw Massacre"-inspired depiction of the small town white trash
locals? Again-another derivation that may go undetected by film goers
who are completely unfamiliar with films of the last 30 years.

And herein lies my biggest complaint with the The Signal: Eubank
manipulates his audiences into thinking his story really has a point to
make, albeit through half-baked characters, half-explained plot
developments and distracting narrative threads-but the film is an empty
shell. It just thinks it is way more clever and intelligent than it
really is. (I felt like I was watching an overlong, effects-driven film
made by a pompous film geek, who used this as a portfolio piece to get
into a lofty, tech-driven grad film program).

Finally, what makes The Signal such a colossal failure in my book is
that the film is not made with the same authenticity, gusto,
originality, or genuine-need-to get-some pressing topic or idea
of-of-one's chest as many other ambitious low-budget, indie films of
its type. To be honest, I would rather sit through a 200-million dollar
Michael Bay production-at least his films make no pretense of being
anything other than mindless entertainments with familiar formulas and
marketing gimmicks (hell, Eubank might even learn a thing or two from
Bay). As a filmmaker myself, this film was the cinematic equivalent of
watching a friend's child learn how to walk for the first time while
the kid stumbles repeatedly, over and over: I am required to be very
patient, remember I'm dealing with a toddler, must applaud the little
one for trying, but ultimately I'm glad it ain't my kid.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a good Sci-fi movie

It looks low budget, but they have some outstanding special effects. It
seems that Sci-fi is going back to the character driven stuff that was
big in the 1970's. Way more than just some cool effects, the movie
centers on the main character, Nick Eastman, an math genus going to MIT
who intercepts a hacker's commutation that he and his friend, Marbelle
track down while traveling to California to drop off his girlfriend
Haley. The situation takes a wild twist when they don't find the
Hacker, Nomad, but get caught up in a government quarantine headed up
by Dr. Damon played by Laurence Fishburne.

What I like best about the movie is that it has a feel of contemporary
times as well. the Science fiction has elements of a superhero movie as
they get deeper into Dr. Damon's plot and what an alien presence has to
do with it. 

The movie does have to stand on the legs of the main character, which
could have been a little bit more develop . 

Overall, it's Sci-fi worth seeing
<|_=00=_|>
Very minor spoilers.

Take Dark City, remove any semblance of atmosphere or art design from
it, dumb down the story to a three line pitch and put some bad teen
actors in it and you will have The Signal. The Signal does not offer
anything unique but does offer such an ill-written story that you will
be left scratching your head wondering what on earth made you to waste
an hour and a half of your life watching such trash.

Well it starts with a group of smart teenagers (from MIT of course, has
to be MIT right? ) tracking a MIT server hacker (?) called Nomad as
they make a detour to a place which leads to some strange incidents to
occur. What is strange about the incident would be explained fairly
quickly by Laurence Fishburne who pitches in with his laziest paycheck
collecting performance ever. The MIT students are not that smart to
avoid going into a Blair Witchesque house to explore things and one
thing leads to another. Then things get really bizarre, uh well not so
much. The screenwriter runs out of ideas as to what needs to be done to
make the setting seem weird. Okay mmm why not throw in an extended
interrogation sequence with the scowling teen lead in a hospital
setting? Half an hour will be spent with the teen whimpering and crying
and Fishburne smiling and jotting stuff on a notepad. No dramatic
visuals, no imagery, no imagination whatsoever. This is followed by a
lame ass attempt to escape from the mental institution to redneck Texas
Chainsaw Massacre land. Also the protagonists have metal limbs for some
reason and the girl in the group is being umm saved by the suspicious
astro doctors for some future experimentation? This is followed by some
really unnecessary and badly executed action sequence.

But the end is what will make you peel off your face. The way "Nomad"
connection is revealed will make you question your sanity. The reason
why they experimented with the leads with metal limbs is unexplained
and so lame (why would they need to do it?) that you will want to be
lobotomized rather than see another minute of this travesty.

I followed this movie with "Under the Skin". I can tell you that this
was the worst movie watching day of my life. You have been warned.
<|_=00=_|>
Aliens with incredible technology abduct humans and relocate them to a
spaceship floating in space.( dark city, cube etc)but the humans can
freely escape and wonder round the ship and hide away on a completely
pointless recreation of area 51(like a dad joke) then they are shot
with a human handgun. when the film reveals whats going on in the last
few seconds then you realise the plot was just a load of garbage taped
together.

A film all about appearances, but ultimately a hoax.A 4 MILLION
technical showreel for the filmmaker. A film that is much less than the
sum of its parts. Technically excellent, editing, cinematography,
acting etc, looks like a much bigger budget. A derivative film that
uses the exact same ending and premise as many other films but could
have been cut in half for viewing time and edited in reverse fashion
for an honest delivery. it strings you out to the end to deliver the
tiny amount of substance this film contains, but its definitely
technically excellent, and its this aspect that fools the sci fi hungry
viewer.in the end its a stupid ripoff on numerous levels. Lots of
contradictions that make absolutely no sense but you wont know this
till the end.A more than healthy dose of suspension of disbelief will
be required. Itll promise a burger and deliver a pretzel, you've been
warned.
<|_=00=_|>
I never write reviews but I just has to warn people. This is possibly
the worst movie I have ever seen, don't waste your time/life watching
this.

Started out promisingly but 1/4 way through they ran out of story,
stretched out the suspense theme for what seemed like an aeon and just
(stupidly) made things up the rest of the movie.

I can buy into any story - aliens, super humans, bionics - as long as
its done in a believable way. But this movie was full of massive plot
holes, and characters and motives which were inexplicable.

I am angry at this film for wasting my time.
