
One man's trash, another man's treasure and all that, scavengers
rummaging through garbage are always optimistic about finding something
of value. Not here. Before I begin to hack this film to pieces (to find
anything of value of course), let's start with an old school adage 
Point blame at someone and there's always three fingers pointing back
at you. In relating that saying to this fourth installment of The
Transporter franchise, as long as cinema goers are dumb enough to pay
hard earned money to watch just about anything, then absolute junk will
be recycled over and over again. For The Transporter Refueled, that's
just the outer layer of decomposition. 

With none of the cast and crew from the previous films, Refueled runs
on fumes even before it goes into first gear. Replacing Jason Statham
as the titular protagonist, Ed Skrein's Frank Martin often says "buckle
up". Problem is, the film doesn't budge past the first gear and neither
does the Audi A8 that replaces the BMW 7-series, the Mercedes S-class
or the Lamborghini Murciélago from the previous films. Very early in
the film, the Audi does a cool trick until it immediately dawns on you
that a Pontiac Trans Am called "Kitt" did this trick over thirty years
ago. And while the previous films were an exhibition of brawn over
brain, this pathetic excuse of an action film has neither, nor does it
seem to care. Somewhere between an elaborate plan where prostitutes
revolt against their pimps, the so called action consists of
hand-to-hand combat and three car chases. Blink and you'll miss the
third chase  Martin on a jetski versus the villain in a Mercedes
G-classon land! Equally cringe worthy is the father-son bonding (Ray
Stevens as Martin's dad) which is as effective as securing a square peg
in a round hole. Dig deeper and you'll find that Refueled is not only
poorly scripted, acted and directed to such an appalling extent, it's
very making is a blatant insult to anyone paying to watch this film.
But if you do watch this garbage, don't say I didn't warn you. 

If you can sit through it, the stench of vomit lasts about 90 minutes.
Unfortunately, cinemas don't come with barf bags like airplanes do, so
passing your popcorn bucket to the next person is the only way viewers
can relieve themselves of nausea. On the positive side, it must be
noted that there's hope for film school rejects. If anything, Refueled
is a classic example that any Tom, Dick and Harriet can make a movie. I
can just imagine the hiring notice for the fifth film - Apply within,
no skill required.
<|_=00=_|>
While Jason Statham might not possess incredible acting, he's a great
fit for Transporter. He looks suave and confident, more importantly he
looks capable in action sequences. Ed Skrein only amounts to carbon
copy lookalike with accent. 

Considering it's now stuck with poorly edited choreography for the
scuffle, there's barely a trail of usual high octane ride. However, the
worst offender is the awful script, bordering on cheap fantasy or
softcore porn, the fact that it quotes The Three Musketeers so often is
a literature travesty. 

A group of prostitutes concocts a ridiculously intricate plan to topple
their mafia boss. The Transporter is caught up in the struggle and
forced to help them. Story relies on blind luck, coincidences,
characters' stupidity and baseless arbitrary events. In other words,
it's a complete and utter mess. Forget coherency or plausibility, the
movie plays by its own faulty logic.

Unfortunately, the usual captivating fights or engaging chases are
nowhere to be found. The movie opts for terrible editing and epileptic
camera work instead. It's actually sad that the quirky yet brutal
fighting scenes are replaced with such poor production. At the very
least previous Transporters' fight is over-the-top fun, this is just
confusingly bland.

Script is so awful, almost everything they say sound like 80's macho
gibberish, one-liner from porn parody or silly used car commercial.
I've high tolerance for cheesy lines, but when the characters literally
pose for camera every five minutes to utter these insanely ludicrous
lines, it's not even funny anymore.

Like before, Transporter must have damsel-in-distress, now it thinks a
group of these attractive ladies would replace narrative. Audience
might get juvenile guilty pleasure from the these blond short bob
misses with minimal dress or a couple of nifty chases, but these
gimmicks are shallow and the best they could do is slightly boost the
movie rating if one is generous enough in reviewing it. 

With the amount of plot holes and poor choreography it must go through,
the end product is unrecognizable wreckage.
<|_=00=_|>
Yep it is terrible. In future if you want to reboot a movie franchise,
please do so without enticing me to the cinema. The stunts are awful,
the fight scenes are trying to recreate Stathamness and everything
appears to have been done on a miniscule budget without any thought for
consequence, what the audience thinks or sees, or without any due
regard for linear time.......

Do not bother with it. Ed Skrein or whatever his name is, is just not
Statham, I don't like Statham, but he is a far better actor than
Skrein.

I am now forced to write additional lines because I am not allowed to
write a review less than ten lines, about a film which does not deserve
ten lines of my time or space on the internet. How it managed 53% on
Rotten tomatoes is beyond me
<|_=00=_|>
Camille Delmarre needs to get fired and get his job back at McDonalds!
Who ever allowed Ed Skrein to play the lead in this is off his head,
but I suspect it was his mother. It looks like he was hit in the teeth
from the inside and then some... His acting (If you can call it that)
is flat and he only has the same look on his face (like he has seen ...
for the first time!). The fake hoarseness he carries in his voice is
oh-just-so-laughable!

Come on Hollywood, if you want to do a reboot of a franchise like this,
please do not do it with 3rd rate actors!!!

OK, now the action scenes, THE EDITOR, Julien Rey, NEEDS TO GET HIS
HEAD OUT HIS ...! There is no continuation in the scenes and then he
slows the video down JUST TO SHOW YOU HOW DYSFUNCTIONAL HE CAN MAKE
IT!!!

If you have some time to spare, rather get your eyes poked with forks
until you have no further need to see this atrocity.

As an afterthought, I find the plot (I will not go into the holes in
this one) totally unbelieving. Prostitution and revenge? Never heard of
it!

Laughable, disappointing and just outright stupid!
<|_=00=_|>
It is just heartbreaking to say I did not like a transporter movie. But
still, I did not like this transporter movie, at all !! It is expected
from a transporter series to have top notch action sequences with Jason
Statham throwing some mind blowing dialogues that would make a fan jump
from his/her seat. But this Transporter got neither great action
sequences nor good dialogues. 

Ed Skrein tries his best to reach that level but fails in experience.
His voice is a plus but still cannot deliver a good blow with his
dialogue delivery. He also lacks that Badass look Jason used to have.

I was literally expecting the entire time for the movie to pick up pace
and satisfy the action thirst that action movie lovers would have, but
it stayed that dull movie where Hero would fight for some girl the
entire time and kiss her at last. (kissing the Heroine with all bruises
on Hero's face is now like a symbol that movie is over).

I don't know if they will make an other part of this but I only hope
next one will be better. 

Verdict: If you are very bored on the weekend, take a family trip,but
try to avoid Transporter Refuelled. This movie is only for Transporter
series fans who just don't want to skip a movie in the series.
<|_=00=_|>
Stunningly awful I felt like I was watching robots mechanically
delivering an emotionally vapid performance. Now if this was a pre-take
walk through, it could be forgiven but as the final cut, it was
deplorable. Only the father exuded some warmth and presence as a
character that one could identify with and appreciate. The sheer lack
of depth of the other characters was only matched by the lame attempts
to humanize them. I am nearly speechless at how artificial the attempts
were. Not sure if this was due to a really bad script, bad directing or
terrible editing. I think the women made a valiant effort to give some
dimension to their characters but in the end the whole enterprise was a
sinking ship and the cast knew it.
<|_=00=_|>
It's sad to see this movie flop this bad, really. It really had the
huge risk of at least deliver something equivalent of the original
trilogy. But doing this movie without any of the previous trilogy's
creative minds is really a big mistake. The people behind the creative
process for this movie clearly didn't know what they were doing. They
only tried so hard to recreate the Jason Statham's Frank Martin persona
with the mannerisms and the unique fight sequences. But in doing so
they really pitted Ed Skrein with the old Jason Statham performance, on
which everyone can really choose who's the winner. Not having Jason
Statham is by itself a big burden due to Ed Skrein still fails to live
up to the Statham persona. The story also seems very flat, nothing new
or unpredictable is being offered by this movie. And the biggest sin is
the editing.there are so many editing mistakes that takes away the fun
in watching the action scenes. The acting overall is so bad that I
don't deign to write about each actors' performances.
<|_=00=_|>
Redeeming features, nice Cars, nice Girls

The acting was woeful, if this was supposed to be a showcase for new
talent? It failed miserably Ed Skrein was simply not believable as
Frank Martin, he may well have talent but if failed to find a way to
escape the terrible script.

The plot (what there was of it) was so predictable that I could have
written the next scene before it showed up on the screen.

The truth is, this movie could have been edited out of the out takes
and what was on the cutting room floor from the previous Transporter
Movies and it would probably have been an improvement.

The Plot consisted of a few Pretty Girls exploited by Mafia type
Russian bad guy, Frank takes a job and gets wrapped into a revenge plot
by some of the Girls on the old Boss.

Stick it in a bag shake it and print it.

If you are thinking of going to the cinema to watch this, do not waste
the money.

It gets 1 star because someone somewhere made a living on it.
<|_=00=_|>
The new Transporter, who comes in the shape of Ed Skrein, has some big
shoes to fill taking on a role that helped make Jason Statham a bona
fide action star. I've only seen Skrein in one previous film, whilst
I've seen nothing from director Camille Delamarre. But I'm certainly
more familiar with Ray Stevenson, who plays the father of Frank Miller,
a.k.a., The Transporter. In this regard, it's quite obvious that a
Connery/Ford father- son dynamic has been sought, which gives the
tiniest bit of personality to a film that falls completely flat from
the onset and rarely picks up. The story is familiar -- the Transporter
gets a job driving a package, the job goes wrong and he's in deep. It
gets personal when his father is kidnapped, but with no grit on its
wheels and Skrein trying in vain to create a new persona for this
character, what it ultimately amounts to is flash cars, sexy girls,
suits and stunts, but nothing more. Much like a glorified car
advertisement.
<|_=00=_|>
Ed Skrein does bring some nods to Jason Statham, but other than that he
does try to play it differently, he is not terrible, just nowhere near
has memorable has Statham. Ray Stevenson who plays Franks father, is
quite a scene stealer, and makes me wonder why was he not cast has
Frank instead.

All in all it's pretty much what you would get from a Transporter film.
Lots of intense and over the top action, awesome fight scenes. Would I
say this movie is terrible, well no. Would I say it's great, not that
either. A film like this is just a film to pass the time, you'll like
it for the action nothing more. Same reasons you'll go see Hit-man
Agent 47.
