
I've been amazed at some of the slams this movie has taken. No story?
Boring? Slow? You've got to be kidding. This was a fascinating
character study of an "honorable man" trying to retain his honor in a
corrupt business and political environment. From the title, I was
expecting more of a traditional Martin Scorcese gangster flick, so I
was surprised (pleasantly) that "violence" of the film was primarily
about two codes of life clashing against one another. I can certainly
understand a viewer attracted to the film because of the word
"violence" ibeing disappointed at seeing so little on the screen. But I
found the film riveting: excellent plotting, great writing and superb
performances.
<|_=00=_|>
A Most Violent Year marks J.C. Chandor's directorial return to form in
this gritty thriller telling the tale of a man constantly pressured by
the elements of his surroundings. Featuring an onslaught of phenomenal
performances and a slow burning screenplay, A Most Violent Year rises
on the list of the very best of 2014. The film tells the story of the
Morales family as they struggle to maintain their business empire
during 1981 New York City, which is statistically the city's most crime
ridden year. The film follows Abel, played by Oscar Issac, an immigrant
who started his home oil business from the ground up and essentially is
living the American Dream. When hijackings begin to start happening,
one of which turning violent, the NYPD begin to dig into his empire,
setting off a chain reaction of events that threaten to destroy the
life he worked so hard to build. The film is an interesting contrast
between Abel the family man and Abel the business man. He is a man that
isn't afraid to do the unthinkable if he is crossed, not because he is
a gangster or a violent criminal but because he is protecting what he
cares about and when push comes to shove, he is willing to do whatever
it takes. The best parts of A Most Violent Year come from the scenes
with Abel and Anna, played by Oscar Issac and Jessica Chastain. To
start off, both of these actors deliver career best performances and
make you feel every word their saying. This is definite kudos to
Chandor. His ability to humanize his characters is impeccable and A
Most Violent Year is a clear cut showcase of what he is capable of
behind the camera. To Chandor, his actors are key, without them, this
film could fall apart very easily with one false note. It feels as if
Chandor wrote the screenplay for these two and it really pays off,
especially for Jessica Chastain, who is unbelievably good playing a
manipulative Shakespearean femme fatale. The supporting cast features
David Oyelowo, Alessandro Nivola, and the great Albert Brooks and they
are absolutely exceptional in this film. The screenplay, as I said
above, is terrific. It is realistic and grounded in 1970s-esque grit,
echoing back to films such as The Friends of Eddie Coyle, The French
Connection and Serpico. This is a film that fits very nicely in between
The French Connection and Serpico. It is not a film about an event or a
chronicle of the most violent year in New York's history, it is about
characters. It is a character driven film and those of you who are
looking for something a bit more filling regarding entertainment value,
you'll be sorely disappointed with this film. Despite it's title, there
are very few scenes of violence but when there is violence, it is
usually sudden and realistic and doesn't wallow in the actual act of
violence, it analyzes the affects of the violence at hand. My only
issue that I had with A Most Violent Year is the cinematography.
Bradford Young is an amazing cinematographer and really does well
behind the camera but I don't feel as though he captured the essence of
1981. The film is crisp, clean and very digitized considering the time
period we're supposed to be set in. The colors are all there and the
tones are perfect but it is just too crisp looking and doesn't allow us
to truly experience Chandor's New York City. Despite the digital look,
the film's colors are very cold and desolate, making New York look as
if it were on its way to becoming a deserted wasteland. Overall, A Most
Violent Year is a slow burning crime thriller that is seeping with
great performances and a brilliant script. I highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all let me just say, if IMDb allowed 0.5 votes, this would
probably get a 6.5 from me. Where to begin with this one ? Well it's
shot well, the cast nail the parts, but from start to finish you are
waiting for the film to come to life, and unfortunately it just never
does.

Some people will appreciate this film much more than others, but for me
it was average at best. The main reason we all watch films and
television, is to be entertained, and unfortunately with A Most Violent
Year, it feels like we have been left wanting.

You never really get to appreciate 1980s New York, a couple of
panoramic skylines don't really cut it. With a bit more substance to
the story, better visuals & some period music, this film could & should
have been much better.

Sausage1
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen it a few days ago, the more I think of "A Most Violent
Year", the more I like it.

This is not a spoiler, but a friendly tip: don't expect a lot of what
the title implies, because the movie does not focus on violence.

While there are tense and violent moments, the movie's strenght lies in
the performances and the interactions between characters.

Oscar Isaac plays Abel, a businessman who is trying to make a clean
living while being more and more pressured by an unknown threat. The
competition plays dirty while he wants to stay an honest man. 

Abel's moral struggle is what the narrative revolves around. Jessica
Chastain play Anna, Abel's wife and business partner. She is equally as
powerful, assertive and dominant as he is, if not more so.

The director did a wonderful job at creating a tense, sad and dramatic
mood throughout. The cinematography is wonderful, the subtle moody
soundtrack plays a big part in creating a feeling of impending doom
throughout the entire movie, and I am very impressed by the recreation
of a 1981 New York. It's very immersive.

While nothing mainstream audiences will drool over, I find "A Most
Violent Year" an excellent drama. If you like this movie, you should
give "The Two Faces Of January" a chance as well. Not only you would
notice what a chameleon Oscar Isaac is, but you might enjoy the classic
mood and character-driven vibe of that film as well.
<|_=00=_|>
Chandor (All is Lost) is one of the more prolific young directors
working. With AMVY, an adult mystery-drama-thriller, he screams of the
classics: tension of French Connection, quiet of Chinatown, and menace
of Mean Streets. It's a fantastic period piece that creates an
authentic, distinct look at 1980s New York, while tonally replicating
films from that era. Is it a bit TOO quiet and a bit TOO slow at times?
YepÂ…but the taut skill on display is too good to ignore. Abel Morales,
a successful, hardworking oil company owner, tries to thrive and
survive during 1981 NYC, the most violent year in history. Despite this
premise, the crime-action is more a successfully imminent background
thought than a constant in-your- face presence. As the movie progresses
and ultimately gets better, the subtle suspense builds, and each
individual incident pushes Morales closer to his breaking point. Isaac
shines in the protagonist role, playing one of the coolest characters
around: broken yet proud, strong yet vulnerable, decent yet pressed,
and shrewdly bad-to-the-bone. I wish Chastain was a bit more up to the
task as his ominous, hardly-doting wife, but luckily she's not a huge
distraction to the otherwise stellar acting by some of Hollywood's
great new talents. Throughout the solid work being done, we are
presented with some great things to ponder: wanting the American dream
without knowing why; struggling to be successful without becoming
corrupt; juggling humility and pride in a world that drains you.
Unfortunately the character's relationships with these different
questions bring the movie to a bore at times. Mostly though, it manages
to be a solid little award-season drama.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1981, an immigrant oilman struggles to improve his fortune and
protect his family during the most dangerous year in New York City's
history. A Most Violent Year is a strong, character-driven drama that's
lifted infinitely by terrific lead performances by Oscar Isaacs and
Jessica Chastain, inflating what could have been a tiresome, trite look
at one man versus the world in an unkind city.

Abel Morales (Isaac) runs Standard Oil, and he has his eyes on some
prime waterfront real estate. With this land, he'll be able to fill his
trucks from directly from the oil barges on the river, rather than have
the oil transported from boat to someone else's trucks and then to his
warehouses. And by saving money there, he'll be able to buy a little
more oil than he normally would, keep it on the premises, and then sell
it to customers or competitors when demand rises. He makes a deal for
the land with a sizable down payment and the stipulation that the
balance be tendered within 30 days - no extensions allowed. This, of
course, is before Abel's company comes under investigation by an
intrepid detective (David Oyelowo), his trucks get highjacked and the
oil stolen, and his backers start to, well, back away.

But Abel is no wilting flower, whether he's dealing with the fuzz or
the other oilmen in the city. He has his convictions, and damned if
he's going to give them up to appease anyone. Which, as you might
suspect, makes things a little more difficult. His wife Anna
(Chastain), who can match Abel in sheer willpower, is also fiercely
protective of her husband, her business (she's the bookkeeper), and her
family. Sort of a two-pronged attack. Abel's charm and style nets him
both friends and enemies, but this isn't yet another mobster movie by
any means. In fact, the only direct evidence of organized crime in the
movie centers around Abel's competition - men who would do anything to
maintain and/or increase their share of the lucrative oil business in
the city.

Both Isaacs (Inside Llewyn Davis) and Chastain (Interstellar) deliver
powerful performances that manage to be both relatable and fascinating.
Theirs is not a one-sided relationship. Abel is not some power-mad,
bombastic husband who treats the wife and kids as either baggage or
items to be used for fun and profit. Anna is not some melodramatic,
over-spirited harpy who resents her husband's work obsession. They work
together even when they disagree. And I would be remiss if I didn't
mention an almost unrecognizable Albert Brooks, the company's astute
and slightly amoral lawyer. Brooks, in what appears to be a Karl Malden
wig, is a real treat.

A Most Violent Year carries a strong message, and that message is this:
don't count the little guy out, particularly when he (and his spouse)
is whip-smart, unafraid to take chances, and endlessly resourceful.
High praise indeed for director J.C. Chandor (All Is Lost) and his
talented cast.
<|_=00=_|>
It's 1981 NYC, and it's not American Hustle. A Most Violent Year is set
in the most brutal year in the city's history, when Mayor Koch and the
DA would not like it to be so. While Hustle sets the scene with humor
and style, Violent is happy to understate lawlessness and concentrate
on the dialogue, which has undercurrents of corruption in each
syllable.

Oscar Isaac plays immigrant, oil delivery company owner, Abel Morales,
with an Al-Pacino veneer that goes low key, not Godfather or Scarface
operatic. His double-breasted suits and ever-present camel overcoat
suggest the smooth, verbal, charismatic, but unassuming business owner
who wants to be as straight as his wardrobe. It's a difficult ideal
because someone is hijacking his oil trucks and selling the oil on the
black market.

What to do? His wife Anna (Jessica Chastain), beautiful but born to a
crime family, is at times more ready to deal with the sabotage in a
traditional mob way than her husband is. But Morales deals with it in a
civilized, diplomatic way that of course makes him and his employees
vulnerable to the rude, irrational hoodlums.

Director J.C. Chandor knows minimalist dialogue, apparent in his All is
Lost, where Robert Redford gives out with one line but an Oscar worthy
performance anyway. Much more dialogue here, still minimal, but it has
the David Mamet attention to the power of each word.

In a world Sidney Lumet depicted quite well, everyone has a brush with
lawlessness, from truck drivers to cops to politiciansÂ—no one is
exempt, except maybe Morales, who tries to do the "best right" thing in
the face of pressure to use violence as the tried-and-true technique.
That's why this is such a sweet action, crime drama: You can identify
with the protagonist and not be bogged down by gratuitous violence.

This is one of the best action-crime dramas in years. Isaac is Pacino
without his edginess; Chandor's dialogue is soft Mamet, a welcome
substitute for rude bullets. Indeed, while the film is titled A Most
Violent Year, it is not the most violent movie. Leave that to Martin
Scorsese.
<|_=00=_|>
Overall I found the acting OK and the cinematography pretty decent but
that's about all I liked about this one.

It's the story of a guy who's distribution network is having issues,
that's it ! There are a couple of side stories within the film such as
the main character trying to raise some cash to close a deal and one of
his drivers having courage issues plus the Police wanting to look into
his dealings a bit deeper but there's no real drama or interest at all
! 

I was expecting something much different than what it is so maybe I was
just peeved that it didn't have what I would expect from a film with
such high ratings. 2 hours of wishing it would end and when it finally
did, I was so let down and felt cheated, that's why I recommend that
you just don't bother with this one !
<|_=00=_|>
J.C. Chandor's A Most Violent Year is almost lyrical in its beauty,
exuding a sepia-toned environment that captures essence rather than
exploiting nostalgia of the time period. It's 1981, said to be one of
New York's most violent years, and, paradoxically, A Most Violent Year
doesn't focus on the incredibly violent; it focuses on what happens
between all the violence and on the outskirts of all the madness. We
follow Abel Morales (Oscar Isaac), who runs Standard Oil, a heating oil
company that has been plagued by frequent hijackings of the company's
utility trucks, resulting in thousands of dollars in lost materials.
Abel is a man who tries to have a firm moral compass, believing in the
good of people and resisting the temptation to give into complete and
total corruption, despite being heavily influenced to do so by his wife
Anna (Jessica Chastain).

On top of the company losing money with every hijacking, a District
Attorney named Lawrence (David Oyelowo) is in the process of
investigating Standard Oil's fraudulent activity, such as price fixing
and tax evasion. This brings Abel's company and dreams down even more,
leading him to seek the purchase of an oil terminal on a river bank
with the leader of Jewish Chassidim (Jerry Adler). This purchase would
allow for more storage for Abel's company, which will help for when
fuel prices lower in the summertime and eventually rise during the
winter. He tries to manage this all while minimizing relations with
gangsters and attempting not to turn into the person he promised
himself he didn't want to become.

A Most Violent Year's marketing campaign made it seem as if this film
was a hardened gangster epic. The film itself, however, finds ways to
work against that stereotype, acting as the contrasting force or the
"anti" to a great deal of gangster films thanks to the ethics of its
character. Abel's character is a fascinating one because never does he
fall into the category of being an anti-hero or a traditional hero. He
tows the line, and even by the end of the film, we're not totally sure
if we're supposed to side with him because we've seen him do equally
admirable and contemptible things.

The problem with Abel's methods is that while he's willing to play
fair, he has found that his business, and the business world in
general, calls for grittier, more devious play, which is why we see him
in the mess he's in now. Writer/director Chandor explores how man gets
sucked into this world whilst trying to function in the business world,
almost suggesting that the system encourages and eventually forces such
drastic illegalities to take place over time. The idea that large-scale
business operations and closed-door corruption exist in unison is by no
means a new idea, but Chandor magnifies the idea through an intriguing
lens, giving us a character that is trying to function on this dirty
playing field and learning this idea the hard way.

Abel, at times, acts like Job, if we're going to toy a bit with the
name of Abel, presuming it has biblical relevance here. Abel's morality
is tested on various occasions, and like Job, in some respects, he
tries to stay true to what he believes, but once he recognizes he's in
a business that demands risk and self-interest, it's difficult for him
to stay on this particular path of righteousness.

It only helps that Abel's struggle is humanized and brought to life by
a character actor as powerful and talented as Oscar Isaac. Isaac, who
completely won me over in the emotionally-affecting Inside Llewyn
Davis, through just two acclaimed starring roles, has proved to be an
exceptional actor we must keep our eyes on or else he'll slip further
under the radar than he has. Isaac's strength comes in the frequent
subtleties he infuses in Abel. We often see him trying to bottle all
his rage and impulsive emotions up, only allowing his anger to slip in
front of people like his wife or his attorney (Albert Brooks) but in a
very sporadic manner. Isaac's portrayal of a man grappling with all he
can bear is powerful stuff, and it's these ordinary little,
true-to-life inclusions that make him explode on screen.

He's so good that it makes me wish Chastain was given more of a
character here instead of the instigating wife. Her persistent
belittling of what she perceives is her husband's passivity makes her
character lose any kind of narrative or emotional relevance as we see
her just as another variation on the nagging wife clichÃ©. To be fair,
however, Isaac commands so much ground here that it's difficult for
veterans like Brooks to keep up with him while in the same frame, but
Chastain's character and acting abilities are sorely undermined here.

A Most Violent Year is like an enormous piece of art on a large,
spacious canvas with many colors, patterns, and designs. It's hard to
take it all in while it's happening right before your eyes, but once
you digest it and see it through, it becomes something you can't take
your eyes off and, in turn, appreciate on many different levels.

Starring: Oscar Isaac, Jessica Chastain, David Oyelowo, Albert Brooks,
and Jerry Adler. Directed by: J.C. Chandor.
<|_=00=_|>
Technically,one of the last movies released in 2014 on the year's final
day, just in time for award season, cause it's that type of movie to
impress awarders.

I do praise the movie, especially for it's stylized throwback to the
late 70s-early 80s when the movie takes place , 1981 to be precise.

Oscar Isaac is becoming the man to watch out for. He never seemed like
a leading man type, but after seeing him in Inside Llewyn Davis and
this, I'm having a change of opinion.

David Oyelowo is another one I need to watch out for, although it's not
hard, as he's been appearing in a lot of films, and gives a great
performance no matter how small his supporting role is

The lovely Jessica Chastain is in the movie as well, being very
brilliant and very sexy. I only wish she had more time on screen cause
she's lovely to watch in all aspects.

The film also stars Albert Brooks in a role I feel he got because of
his outstanding performance in Drive.

It's a very quiet movie with a lot of the drama coming from things not
said but suggested. Not much action, but the little bit did get my
blood pumping. It also had humor in the drama. It really does feel like
it was done in 1981 too. Such a brilliant job by the filmmakers.
