
Not every comedy is for everyone (at least I think this was supposed to
be a comedy). Last week I saw The Big Lebowski (1998) at the local
movie theater. Packed. People in Lebowski t-shirts, people who raised
hands to show they'd seen the movie five, ten, twenty times, people
anticipating the laugh lines. Eighteen years from now, nothing like
that will happen with this film from German director Tom Twyker. Tom
Hanks is American businessman Alan Clay, whose marriage is over and
whose career as a salesman is on the skids. In what appears to be a
last chance at success, he's sent to Saudi Arabia to sell the king on a
costly holographic teleconferencing system for a new city being built
in the desert. He encounters bureaucratic delays, clandestine alcohol
consumption, confounding cultural gaps, and unexpected romance. Where I
messed up was in thinking, "Oh, Tom Hanks. He's always great." Someone
so talented just wouldn't be in a mediocre film. Why would he? And, I
thought, "Oh, Dave Eggers wrote the book it's based on. Got lots of
praise for it too." For example, New York Times reviewer Pico Iyer
called the book "an anguished investigation into how and where American
self-confidence got lost and  in the central word another lonely expat
uses for Alan 'defeated.'" And the Boston Globe: "True genius."
Someplace along the way, the promise of the book and Hanks got lost,
and a more disjointed and implausible narrative is hard to imagine.
When we're told that the crowds Hanks saw at a mosque were there
because "that's where the executions are," it's hard to believe that a
Saudi woman would take the very great risk of being alone with him, an
American infidel. Hanks does get to drive a very sexy 2015 Audi R8,
briefly. But even that isn't worth the ticket price.
<|_=00=_|>
Just an awful film and very disappointing for me because I love Tom
Hank's films. But he doesn't even look like he wants to be here. He
supposedly goes to SA to save a deal with the Saudi gov't. but spends
about 5 minutes doing what he was theoretically there for. Mostly he
drinks a LOT and repeatedly wakes up late in the hotel (what, this
businessman doesn't know to ask the front desk for a wake-up call!?).
Aside from the "business" aspects of this movie, i.e., why his
character is in Saudi Arabia to begin with (takes up about 10 minutes
total in the movie), there is a romantic encounter with a (MARRIED)
Saudi woman.

Let me be real clear here. I worked for a year in SA (and my oldest son
was actually born there which is another story and a half in itself)
and this "romance" would NEVER happen. These folks have known each
other for like 2 weeks (timeline is non-existent in this movie) and she
goes topless swimming with him? But what is really unbelievable here is
that a married Saudi woman (or any Saudi woman) would be alone with him
in the first place (forget the driver, they would be Korean, Pakistani,
Chinese, etc., i.e, non-persons as far as the Saudis are concerned).
She would be completely compromised no matter how innocent she was! I
understand she is getting a divorce from her husband but here she is
sill married. What would happen in SA if her husband found out about
this behavior is very simple - he had the right and he probably would
kill her as a matter of honor or, at a minimum, beat her into a coma,
and he would never, ever be charged or prosecuted. And even if Hank's
character didn't know this, she would, and would never put the two of
them in such a dangerously compromising situation.

Save yourself the misery and give this clunker a wide berth.
<|_=00=_|>
A good film about being 60, being alone, being abroad and being
open-minded.

Tom Hanks is a troubled man sent to KSA to sell something on behalf of
a big American Corporate. And there he clashes with Arabic Culture in
his usual thoughtful and suspended-judgment way.

I won't tell you what happens, of course, but after a quick look to the
other reviews (someone even claims to have fallen asleep) I understood
that not everyone have liked it. And I'm surprised but I won't comment. 

I would just say, for those who could possibly share my feelings, that
this was a good film: interesting, clever and not slow at all. Just,
maybe, a little different. Images are great and the story depicts
nicely our difficult times. Besides: is there a such thing as a bad Tom
Hanks' film?
<|_=00=_|>
Tom Hanks plays a fish out water unless it's bottled. It's a clash of
cultures movie that is mildly entertaining. There are some humorous
moments that make you wish it was more of a comedy and less of a drama.

It's hard to believe this movie would have been made if they didn't
have Tom Hanks. He drags this through the dessert on his shoulders.
There's an awkward series of scenes at a party and plenty of redundant
scenes about the daily grind of doing business in Saudi Arabia while
waiting for the King.

The back story of the karma of Hanks selling out Schwinn bikes to China
comes back to haunt him. The love story feels forced and it seemed as
Rita Wilson had approval of the female lead.

The good news is this movie is short. It is also very forgettable. No
need to track it down on it's limited run, as it will be a bit more
enjoyable for a quiet evening at home.
<|_=00=_|>
Being a Saudi woman studying in the US, I was prepared for a movie full
of stereotypes that I usually encounter in my daily life. However, it
was even worse than my imaginations! 

Aside from the exaggerations and lies, there was no plot. I couldn't
tell what the purpose of the movie was

Also, the Arabic language spoken wasn't even close to the Saudi accent!
And mentioning things like it's rare to have Saudi female doctors,
seriously?!!!!

It was a waste of time watching a poorly researched and written movie.

Tom Hanks' acting didn't live up to the expectations either.
<|_=00=_|>
29 May 2016 Film of Choice at The Plaza Dorchester Tonight - Hologram
for the King. This film was a little surreal, I was never quite sure if
the main character was dreaming the whole thing or not, this was not
helped by a series of flashbacks that kept appearing throughout.
However Tom Hanks was his usual sturdy unflappable self playing Alan a
man who had failed in business and was now trying to succeed in a new
career by selling an IT invention to an Arab King in Saudi Arabia.
Failing in his marriage also and undergoing a bitter divorce, Alan is a
bit lost when he arrives in Saudi and assumes the persona of a very
beige type of man fighting his way through a very large sandstorm.
However sparks of a more assertive person struggle through and we
follow him on a journey of discovery. Not a huge raging river of a
film, more a gentle stream meandering around and in danger of drying up
in the Saudi desert. It doesn't dry up though and I found myself
enjoying the tale immensely. Not everyone's cup of tea but worth a
watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not sure what I was expecting from this movie going in. Now that I
have seen it, I am glad that my expectations were tempered. This movie
lacked the traditional intensity that a Tom Hanks film usually
delivers. I can't put my finger on just what I didn't like about the
film. Was it the fact that this movie couldn't decide if it was a love
story, or a comedy? Or that the underdevelopment of the characters left
me scratching my head. Or that the storytelling seemed rushed in slow
moving manner. In any case, I was disappointed in this movie when I
walked out of the theater. I was a little surprised that Hanks even
took this role after reading the script. This movie was beneath his
talent. Anybody could have played the part and done just as well.
<|_=00=_|>
A big disappointment!! I decided to watch the movie because of Tom
Hanks, and I still can't understand how actors like him accept to
participate in this type of movie. Initially we all think it's about a
business with the SA king, but it's about everything in the world
except that... He has problems with his daughter: 5 minutes of the film
He likes his doctor: 20 minutes of the film. He is drunk: 10 minutes.
He goes with his driver to nowhere: 15min I mean.. I ended knowing
nothing about anyone, because the movie is definitely not deep... In
the end, I just felt sad about the way women are treated in those
countries... I already knew it, but it is different to watch it in
front of us. And in the movie, it probably was a soft vision of SA
society. Resume: I wouldn't watch this not even in my Friday
afternoon... Totally waste of money
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the plot being ridiculously unrealistic and white/America
supremacist--yes, in the scriptwriters' opinion a married (you heard
right, there is no mention in the film that she actually got the
divorce) Saudi woman with two kids living with her can have an affair
with a white guy from the U.S. without any problems because no one is
going to find out, nor her kids or her husband--the stereotype of Saudi
people, the Philipines and the Chinese in this film is just so
cringe-worthy that made it too laughable for people from these cultures
to be offended. I mean, seriously? You can't keep your company running
and it's all the Chinese's fault? And the Chinese doctors who are
obviously qualified to work in a Saudi hospital can't speak English?
And your hologram project wasn't accepted because the Chinese stole the
opportunities from you? Like really? Whose fault is it that your
company's hologram equipment is so much slower and way more expensive?
Oh yes, it's of course the Chinese's fault. Went to see the film on the
premiere night at a screening event. Heard someone said "It's just a
terribly written script to start with," on his way out. Way to go
pathetic film scriptwriters who are too biased to see they are biased.
