
The best way I can describe John Wick is to picture Taken but instead
of Liam Neeson it's Keanu Reeves and instead of his daughter it's his
dog. That's essentially the plot of the movie. John Wick (Reeves) is
out to seek revenge on the people who took something he loved from him.
It's a beautifully simple premise for an action movie - when action
movies get convoluted, they get bad i.e. A Good Day to Die Hard. John
Wick gives the viewers what they want: Awesome action, stylish stunts,
kinetic chaos, and a relatable hero to tie it all together. John Wick
succeeds in its simplicity.

As an action movie buff, all I wanted to see in this movie is some
inventive action sequences, and I was not disappointed. Every single
action sequence in this movie is fast-paced, beautifully shot, fluid,
intense, and you never have trouble understanding what's going on. The
direction of this film is fantastic, as is the writing. There's no
melodramatic soapy story lines - everything is straight and to the
point, and the point is to get to the action. Not one moment in this
movie is boring. The short dialogue is effective from getting to action
sequence A to sequence B without any confusion as to any character's
motive. It's all laid out in front of you - all you have to do is sit
back and enjoy the insanity happening on screen.

Remember when Live Free or Die Hard came out and people were upset that
John McClane only fired pistols throughout the entire movie? I like a
little versatility when it comes to action heroes, and evidently so do
the writers. John Wick wrecks face with pistols, assault rifles,
shotguns, knives, even mano-a-mano; the man can do anything. The
difference between John Wick and other modern action movies (Die Hard 5
and Taken 3 for instance) is that you actually believe John Wick is
killable. He's not some invincible superhero like Bruce Willis was in
Die Hard 5, having his car crash and flip like a hundred times and the
second it stops he gets out without a scratch and starts running. No,
John Wick takes a beating in this film. Numerous times in fact. But
most of the time he's kicking ass and taking names, and instead of
acting as some unstoppable killing machine, he just seems like a guy
who's an expert in his field. He used to be a hit-man after all.

John Wick is a blast to watch. Really, it's just a mindlessly fun
action movie. It has large-scale shootouts, CQC sequences, and a
classic hero-villain hand-to-hand confrontation at the end. The only
negative I can say about the movie is that the villains aren't anything
to write home about. They're Russian mobsters which we've seen a
million times, and their leader isn't given enough to work with as far
as character goes. Willam DaFoe has a brief but important role though
as Wick's former colleague. 

Regardless, John Wick is all about the action and it goes above and
beyond in every respect. It's a breath of fresh air after all the poor
sequels we've been getting, and thankfully John Wick has the potential
to be the next great action franchise. An absolute must-watch for
action fans.
<|_=00=_|>
At first glance, John Wick sounds like a terrible film on paper but
with the slickness of Keanu Reeves' performance as the titular
character and the sheer brilliance in its action sequences, this marks
the best action film of the year and one of the absolute best in the
past decade. Following a brutal home invasion that leaves his beloved
dog murdered by thugs from his past, John Wick vows revenge on the ones
who have taken what he loves most. Like I said, on paper, this seems
like a direct-to-DVD slopfest starring John Cena but as a film with
Keanu Reeves as the lead, it marks the very welcomed return for Reeves
to the genre. John Wick is insanely fun, violently brutal and an
overall romp especially for those disappointed by The Expendables 3.
John Wick is propelled by Tarantino-esque dialog mixed with the swagger
of action stars from the 70s. Reeves literally emulates cool in this
film and does it with such confidence, that we don't even doubt the
character...even when he kills countless bad guys with extreme force in
some utterly ridiculous and implausible situations. We don't doubt it
for a minute. This is EXACTLY what you want out of an action film. It
is briskly paced, brilliantly shot and meticulously choreographed and
keeps you wanting more and more. The supporting cast filled with the
likes of John Legiuzamo, Ian McShane, and Willen Dafoe also keeps this
film very interesting. These guys don't play good guys, hell, John Wick
by traditional standards would be a bad guy in any other film. Every
character is more ruthless than the next and pushes John Wick to be
more ruthless than they are, creating a very cool dynamic between the
character and the plot regarding the idea of how far is too far?
However, don't expect some revelation from John Wick regarding the
morality of bad and evil. This film wants you entertained and does so
with brute force, it never lets up, not even for a second. One scene in
particular that will have your blood pumping is a showdown between
thugs and Wick in a nightclub. This action sequence remains the best in
the film and will have you grasping your theater seat because of the
sheer intensity of it. Overall, John Wick is slick, violent fun that
turns into a remarkable, surprising film that will catch you off guard.
It is THAT good. I highly recommend this film to action buffs
especially but I'm sure those who just like a good movie will love it
as well.
<|_=00=_|>
Keanu Reeve is John Wick. He's a deadly and unstoppable hit-man, and it
shows. "John Wick" is short and to the point, but so much fun. At 1
hour and 36 minutes running time, there is never a dull moment in what
may be one of the best action films of the year. 

The film starts off quickly and never stops. It doesn't spend too much
time on the backstory or development of Wick's life, yet it still
succeeds so well in building up his character. Within the first 20
minutes, John Wick is called out of retirement when three robbers break
into his home, steal his car, and kill his dog. Even before the action
begins though, the film builds up so much suspense and gravity into who
this "John Wick" is, resulting in a satisfying and exhilarating moment
when his enemies realize he's back in the game. 

While the plot may be simple and straightforward, it works sufficiently
in setting up a situation where the rest of the greatness can happen -
stylized and awesome fight sequences where John Wick goes through
dozens and dozens of kills. Seeing this in digital IMAX really helped
boost the mood of the film; the intense sound design and visuals, the
slick fighting and choreography on screen. There's this one scene in
the film where John Wick assaults his way through a club, and all those
elements combined make it an absolutely incredible sequence to witness. 

Besides John Wick and his fighting, the film does set up a very
interesting world, thanks to all the other little details and
characters it brings in. There is an organized system of those on the
other side of the law, operating and exchanging "gold coins" while
staying at bases such as "The Continental" hotel; this definitely
allows room for sequels and spin-offs. 

Still, Keanu Reeves is the star of the show, and this is the best I
have seen him in quite awhile. Again, the story is straightforward and
audiences know what emotional journey to expect, but Keanu displays a
good amount of range in his portrayal of Wick that is still nice to
see. Just like his character states, I'm thinking he's back. "John
Wick" is an awesome and enjoyable action flick that I would recommend.
RATING: [8/10]
<|_=00=_|>
This was the last time I watched a movie based on IMDb ratings.
Seriously. If you are 15 years old , you may watch this pile of...
otherwise... Acting sucks, gangsters are brainless idiots, plot is
terrible. "Russian" language? Hollywood, can you at least once hire OK
Russian-speaking people? Hellooo??!! Just "a few" notable moments:

John Wick is a killer, ghost man, he can kill three man armed only with
a pencil, but somehow manages to overlook a couple of brainless thugs
hack into his house, lets them beat the crap out of himself, kill his
dog and steal his car, wow...

John Wick is so famous that even the policeman, the bartenders, the
mafia, all the town knew him, but the son of a mafia boss for some
reason did not even hear about him! 

John Wick is very skillful , he managed to do impossible task, he can
head shot everyone in the dark, but then he somehow manages to miss
five times in a row at Iosef, incredible...

John Wick is a ruthless killer, he wants to kill everyone, but when he
encounters a female assassin, he decides to leave her alive. How
touching.

Viggo, mafia boss, hires most professional killers and puts 4 million
bounty on John's head, but when he captures him, he decides to play a
little bit and leaves him with only two imbecile guards, seriously? 

If you have more than a couple of brain cells, do yourself a favor and
do not waste time and money on this garbage.
<|_=00=_|>
It looks as if the filmmakers realized that the public was sick of
certain movies. Most movies nowadays are full of wire work, sci-fi,
etc. often topped with icing made of needless or predictable background
stories that add nothing. For example the beautiful girlfriend who
gives the moral speeches or the troubled teenage daughter, who aren't
present here.

Nothing of that is in John Wick. John Wick adds hardly a story, no
character development, no needless character or background, no
misplaced drama, no misplaced humor and not too much eye candy, nothing
of that. What John Wick offers is action, action and more action. In
fact, it is one long action scene, with some lines and close ups added.
But that is not a problem. The directors promise action and deliver.
While delivering they made it look good and convincing, without trying
to be more, and they're smart enough to give the movie a satisfying
beginning and ending.

And for those who claim that Keanu Reeves is a horrible actor..... you
are right. But his blank expression is perfect for this movie. Leave
the acting to the bad guys and the delicious guest part for Willem
Dafoe.

If you're tired of movies with forced drama or loaded with CGI, John
Wick will be a pleasant wake-up call.
<|_=00=_|>
John Wick is something special. It takes as much time setting up
elaborate action sequences as it does the world with which it all takes
place in. And what a world it is. It reminds me of Millers Crossing and
it is cooler than any other recent attempt at noir. We are shown a
criminal underworld where, if you are connected, many powerful people
know who you are and show you respect. John Wick was connected but he
got out. He is the rare killer who has found peace, and he is grateful
for that peace. Some young kids steal that from him and he does what he
does best, he wages a one man war against the Russian Mafia. It might
sound like the film takes quite a leap but it all makes sense. The
motives of John and the people who get in the way of his bullets are
all very clear, even if it does come across as rather simple. That's
the plot at it's most basic. Then there's the action. The film is
directed by Reeve's stuntman from The Matrix, so this guy knows action.
There are sequences that flow so smoothly it puts other action films
and their quick cuts to shame. Keaunu moves so fluidly throughout the
film and comes across as such a natural that the only disappointment is
that we have not seen him like this before. Along the way are plenty of
character actors, fans of The Matrix and The Wire will recognize a few
people then there are more obvious ones like Ian McShane and Willem
Dafoe. Everyone seems to be having a good time. That is another plus
for this movie. It get's dark at times but overall it is quite fun, not
very chipper, but fun. I cannot recommend this movie enough. I believe
it is a must see for action fans and for anyone looking for something a
bit different from the usual fare.
<|_=00=_|>
John Wick had been out awhile and at first I had little interest in
seeing it as, for me, Keanu Reeves is generally whatever the opposite
of a selling point is. However I kept hearing about how this was a bit
of a throw back of an action movie and upon reading the connection
between the director and Keanu, I thought I would have to put aside my
preconceived notions and give this movie a shot.

The movie had two ex-stunt men (one of which was Keanu Reeves' former
stunt double) helming this film. This resulted in a lot of practical
effects instead of heavy reliance on green screen. Also familiarity
with Reeves likely left the directors with a base knowledge with how
far they could push the star. This left the film's action scenes clean,
realistic, to the point, and a hell of a lot of fun to watch.

If I was going to break down the film's format, well it is of the
"semi-generic Punisher type, ex bad ass comes out of retirement to take
on other bad asses" type variety. It was 75% Japanese yakuza film, 20%
Film Noir, and 5% video game. One stylistic element that jumped out at
me right away was the choice to go with a narrow scope of field for
focus. At first I thought maybe this was the projector in the theater
but then I realized it was a choice made for the film. Normally this
would annoy me slightly, and I suppose still did, as I am a big fan of
depth of field, miseenscènes set ups (Citizen Kane is one of my
favorite films). I came to terms with the stylistic choice made for
this film as it reminded me so much of Eastern influences, in this case
it was reminiscent of Zen ink and brush compositions, where the
sharpness lies in where the brush first touches down and the edges
disappear into an almost mist like effect.

While Keanu sold the action pieces well, he wasn't asked to do too much
to stretch his stoic emotional range, which is just what the film
required. He was pretty much perfect for this part if I had been for
some reason been asked to recast this film, I would be hard pressed to
find a better fit. This would have been right up Jason Statham's alley,
however there is nothing more he could have added to it. There was
something quietly instance about Reeves that made you feel that he was
one not to be trifled with. Statham will always remind me of the
character he played in Snatch, which was not at all overly menacing or
intimidating. Rather, if I had my choice of an alternative, I would
delve further into the Japanese gangster genre and extract Chow
Yun-fat. Reeves was 49 in this film and still convincing as an ass
kicker. Chow Yun-fat would have been ten years older, but that would
have further added to the realism of a retired hit man that is
unwillingly dragged back into the 'business'.

Speaking of performances, this film was full of great character actors
from the action genre and otherwise. One of these performances that I
was not overly fond of was that of Alfie Allen. You probably know him
as the dickless Theon Greyjoy. He worked in the part in that he was
highly unlikable, however I was not sure which accent he was trying to
commit to. This brings me to another flaw of the film. Many of the
baddies simply did not measure up to be worthy of the John Wick
challenge. A spoiled brat son of a crime boss nor the crime boss
himself, an old man that the film gave no hint as to any physical
prowess until the anticlimactic final battle gave any feeling that the
fight would go any other direction except to a single minded John Wick
killing stroke.

I highly recommend this film if you are a fan of good action. This
easily ranks as one of the pure action movies of 2014. Judged as just a
movie, it is simple in story structure, but what it does it does very
well.

Blarv Score out of 10: 8.8
<|_=00=_|>
My only guide to this movie was IMDb ratings which I'm sorry to say but
are either being used ONLY by people with very low standards for movies
or are somehow rigged.

I'm giving it 3 stars for whatever little entertainment value it had.

Movie begins by showing a regular guy spending good time with his girl
friend. But he is not really a regular guy, he is a legendary baddie
who criminals tell each other about as their bed time horror stories.
Mafia is so scared of him, they call him the "boogeyman". Yet, armed
burglars get inside his house and take him by surprise without any
resistance from him.

But wait, he is a ghost, a shadow-man ... yet when he doesn't have a
gun, he might as well put on a t-shirt that says 'piñata' because even
lamers are beating the crap out of him all the time.

But wait, he is fast, he is ruthless and he is on a revenge mission ...
yet rivals keep slipping out of his hands, he can't shoot anything
unless the target somehow presents itself two feet from his pistol and
he needs to be continually rescued by his only true friend who "our
hero" doesn't give a damn about.

I think what failed this movie, for me, was the script. Period.
<|_=00=_|>
The only word that keeps coming back to mind when reviewing this movie
is: exhilarating. The fun factor this amazing action film has is
probably the highest of any movie this year. I could not stop myself
from having a blast!

First and foremost, being also the first thing you notice, "John Wick"
is self-conscious of what it is and doesn't, for not even one second,
take itself more seriously than it should. Fortunately this doesn't
shut out the place for character connection and empathy. People often
think the two of these things exclude themselves, but that is not what
I think and this movie is proof of it. It has such a genuine sense of
fun and humor, so much so that you are often laughing WITH (not AT) the
movie at the preposterousness of everything and at the same time
feeling genuine tension for the characters you're rooting for. I know
it sounds ridiculous, but every single f***ing kill by John Wick feels
exciting and liberating, it was incredible how much I was rooting for
him. To this contributes some stunning, fast-and-furious level action
scenes that benefit amazingly by the practicality involved. Hats off to
the director and the special effects guys for staging such a flawless
string of adrenaline-pumping scenes, in particular to the director for
the highly energetically stylish direction that never feels as a
gimmick or out of place, yet instead makes everything all the more
enjoyable. Furthermore this is one of the few movies in which sound
actually stood out and contributed in making the film a great success.
Keanu Reeves is perfect for the role and brings to the screen so much
charisma I could not help but root for the guy. He is surrounded by a
great cast too that has very fun moments on their own. If all of this
wasn't enough, "John Wick" has some great original ideas and plays with
them in the best way possible.

Despite having a blast in the theater and wanting to maybe see this
movie again in a year or so, it isn't original, stylish or innovative
enough to say: "we've seen this plot before, but not quite done this
way". Yes it has its brilliance, but it is kind of cheesy, even if in a
good way, and predictable. It doesn't rank up to a higher standard of
action movie because of its straight-forwardness. It does have some
stakes, but all in all there isn't really an overwhelming set piece or
twist that makes it highly remarkable.

Obviously, that is not what it's aiming for and because of that I could
recommend this movie to anybody, just go and have the best action
entertainment fun in the theater!
<|_=00=_|>
He never misses, he is literally unstoppable.... He's got a particular
set of skills that would make Liam Neeson look like a catholic
priest... Did I mention he shoots a priest in the leg? This action
movie was "perfect"..... Is it in the realm of the best subjective
movies of all time, Godfather, Shawshank or The Dark Knight? Well no
but in terms of the genre it's self? I'm giving it a perfect 5 out of 5
Stars... Hell continuity was even good, the dialog was sound and had
moments of humor at every beat, and Keanu actually shows some range...
Yeah you heard that right, raaaaange.... Not only that Mr. Wick even
takes time to reload again everything just worked perfectly with this
movie... I don't have anything to nitpick... The supporting cast was
even good, this is a perfect fun action movie.... Dammit I gotta see
this again. Remember children when the boogie man goes to sleep, he
checks under his bed for John %^$% Wick...
