
The word "insurgent" means to actively revolt, implying some
distinctiveness that sets its participants apart from the norm.
Ironically, the film Insurgent, a faded photocopy of other teen-
scifi-dramas, doesn't have a single unique bone in its body. Not that
it's aggressively terrible. There are some decent scifi elements and
even a couple of mildly intriguing moments. But like clockwork, every
slight turn for the better is quickly overwhelmed by extreme boredom.
Like a forgettable SyFy channel series masquerading as a blockbuster
film, Insurgent is simply a dull and uninteresting sequel. That word
"sequel" should connote a progression of sorts, but no. As little as I
remember about the previous entry in the Divergent Series, I can tell
you this: shaky cam action scenes, bloviating about "special ones", and
constant fighting for the McGuffin-of-the- week were the focus and are
still in full form here. At the center is Woodley, an actress with a
whole heckuva lot of talent that simply doesn't have the presence of
strength to carry this sort of role. She presents a microcosm problem
for an entire film full of great actors terribly miscast. Teller and
Elgort manage some natural charisma and charm from their otherwise
absent characters, Watts and Spencer are all but completely missing,
and Winslet is just plain wasted. It's none of their fault; they just
can't make the embarrassingly constant melodrama palatable. Even if it
was laughably bad there might be something to cling to, but it's not
bold enough to even warrant that reaction. Insurgent only serves as a
lame, achingly dull placeholder until the next Hunger Games
installment.
<|_=00=_|>
I will preface this by saying that I have not read the books. I did see
the first movie and actually enjoyed it. I usually watch movies such as
this with a skeptic mind and the first one wasn't bad. This movie,
however, was terrible. (Heavy spoilers roasting over an open fire to
follow)

I've heard that the movie deviates almost unforgivably from the book.
If that's the case, I can't speak for the book but the movie script
looks to have been written by a high-schooler, at best. 

The movie is riddled with clichés: Main character with a dark inner
battle raging due to prior decisions made (boring!). People (and
armies) showing up just at the perfect time (forgivable once, not
around the 5th time). Bad guys who couldn't hit a target 20 feet in
front of them while shooting an automatic weapon (man those guys suck).
And the ultimate "faked death with poison/paralysis" scene (wow that
whole scene was bad). 

Throughout the whole movie the main character (the annoying tom-boy
girl), Tris, keeps being painted as "tough" and "deadly". She is
neither of these. In fact, she is quite laughably the opposite. Could
her personal trainers not put her through some weight-training classes?
(Her hairstylist was definitely present as her hair looked like she
just stepped out of a Hollywood salon right after the scene where she
cut her OWN hair with a pair of rusty scissors....) It looks like she
couldn't even do 10 push ups yet she was fighting people and saving
people falling over ledges with ease. But she looks like a huge wuss!
Her little girly grunts and squeals she made when fighting or doing
"action" made me bust out laughing. And the scene where she breaks
through the glass is meant to be bad-ass and instead just left me
hoping she would bounce off the glass and fall flat on her back (man, I
wanted to laugh so bad). 

And probably the most unforgivable part of this whole movie was how
POINTLESS everything was. Examples: They fight the faction-less on the
train, killing several and doing serious damage to many more (not
really sure how because Tris fights like a sissy girl). Then the main
character, Four, says his own name and the leader of the vagabonds
through bloodied teeth is like, "Oh we cool bro. Never mind you just
head-butted me in the face and killed my friends." (the Hell??) (Oh and
Tris's brother is a huge pussy). They continue to fight hard and kill
people to narrowly escape the perfectly- uniformed drone guards of the
"capital" so that they can go in to hiding. Then the main character
just gives herself up. I think it was because the villain was
threatening to kill innocent people with her mind control devices
(never seen that before), but it doesn't really matter. Then she's
given the chance to escape by her double- double crossing 'friend'
(didn't see that coming) and yet she chooses to stay to open the
mystery divergent box. Well what was the point of anything if you
wanted to open it anyway??! I was DYING to contain my frustration.
(also, how does the evil capital lady have this perfectly built
divergent-box-opening proprietary chamber system, complete with
bulletproof glass and mystery-box holding pedestal, just already set
up? Does no one question this stuff???)

And to top it all off, the super-secret, must-be-preserved-at-all-
costs message in the box, (the ENTIRE point of the movie): "Divergents
are cool, don't ostracize them. Oh, and the rest of humanity is living
outside the wall. Cheers." What? No one has bothered to check this
whole time?????? Gag.

Enough roasting. To conclude, lots of movies, even good ones, have
clichés and information that you are just supposed to assume. But this
movie was genuinely terrible. Maybe all the people reviewing this with
an 7/10+ saw a different movie than I did.
<|_=00=_|>
Divergent was not brilliant, but it was your average young adult movie.
Insurgent is way below that. It is so bad that I wanted to leave the
theater and read my book.

But anyway, let's talk about the movie. In the first film Tris learns
she is special, in the second she learns she is *very* special, but
just if her boyfriend lets her do anything. Seriously, I actually had
to ask my wife if girls like guys like him or is it just the submissive
fantasy of the author. Apparently, a lot of girls like overbearing
assholes who think they know what is better for you. And guess who
makes her appearance in the sequel? The mother in law!

Bottom line: the sci-fi aspect of the film was marginal, the characters
clichéd to the point of monomolecular cardboard and the basic story was
learning to accept yourself as your boyfriend tells you what to do
while he deals with his mommy issues. I am not kidding: the most
sympathetic character in Insurgent was Peter, the asshole who always
insults and betrays everybody.

P.S. The Erudite test was remembering something that had happened to
you two nights ago? Really? That's what makes you smart?
<|_=00=_|>
On what grounds does this movie have 6,9 rating on IMDb? This insults
the intelligence. Shailene Woodley has no character and acts like she
is first time in front of the camera. Action is meaningless. This is
what happens when you run out of ideas. 45 minutes before the end I
wanted to quit, but...I did not do it. Why? Because I had hoped it will
improve, and then... nothing. This is the most honest opinion about
this movie that I was able to give you. Now, I'm asking you, do you
have 119 minutes of your life to waste? Oh what, you do not believe me?
No problem! Just remember what I told you and come back after you watch
this piece of abomination. As regards of Kate Winslet, first I have to
say that I'm fan of her earlier works, but this is something else. This
she did not need. A huge step backwards in her career. As someone
(Author: siderite from Romania) already said: "Bad enough to make one
doubt IMDb ratings forever".
<|_=00=_|>
There's nothing more annoying than a movie that sets itself in a
dystopia and then has a bunch of pretty people running around doing
unbelievable things. Maybe if I was a third grader I would appreciate
this fantasy but as an adult it was torture to watch.

This movie would need some serious surgery to actually pass as
something I could make all the way through. I didn't make it all the
way through by the way. The casting, direction and writing would all
have to be redone. Basically, throw it all out and start over.
Otherwise, this could possibly work as a Yahoo TV movie.

File this one in the folder of movies that think the audience is dumb
and will just be wow'd by ridiculous action and young heroes. So
annoying and such a waste of my time.
<|_=00=_|>
'INSURGENT' picks up shortly after the events in 'Divergent' with
obvious intentions to maintain, if not, speed up the momentum of the
franchise. There's no doubt how fascinating the 'Divergent' universe
is, and while it shares almost the same elements that made many of the
YA franchises today, successful, the movie has its own unique facets to
separate itself apart. Unfortunately in Insurgent, those elements
aren't effectively explored and utilized.

Once again, movie makers fall prey to this mentality or should I say
practice, that seems to highlight the film's visual panache, but
dismisses the utmost importance of effective storytelling. I think I've
gone redundant here, but to be honest, Insurgent is no different, and
if you'd allow me to make this honesty, even brutal, this Divergent
sequel tracks a deteriorating trajectory, and you can imagine how the
franchise is set to get even worse, knowing the last book of the
trilogy is going to be split into two movies. This doesn't surprise me
at all, given the fact how film makers has been consistently regarding
these popular franchises as merely cash cows.

In Insurgent, the plot thickens, and not just that, it branches out to
several sub ones. That's when the film begins losing its grip around
the central story, giving way to subplots that don't make sense at all,
if not barely. As she searches for allies, crossing one faction's
territony to another's, our titular heroine, Tris, finds herself in a
cat-and-mouse chase with the enemy, in this case, Jeanine (Kate
Winslet)a name that Veronically Roth seems to suggest to be perfect
for a character she molds as a super-villainess that embodies terror
(am I being sarcastic? of course I....am. Lol..)and her loyal erudite
followers. Tris maintains reluctance, but when Jeanine turns toward her
loved ones, our heroine succumbs and surrenders herself to the enemy.
(this is so new).

INSURGENT draws in more actors on its payroll to play new characters,
but barely utilizes them up to their full capacity. In the end, it's
Shailene Woodley that mostly does her job as the central character. On
the film's key moments, she undoubtedly shines, only her efforts aren't
enough to place the movie's charm to the same level as hers. No thanks
to the chemistry the film seems to suggest Four and Tris have, because
I don't think I felt itit was missing. The action sequences are well
played, I must say, and the visual effects borders extravagance, but
against a weak and unfocused narrative, INSURGENT is a film you better
just wait to come out on DVD, instead, and not one to waste time and
money on. (not unless you're planning to critique it the same I do)
<|_=00=_|>
A 4 is probably generous. I'm getting sick of the Elysium genre and
this is the same thing with the exception of some vivid dreams. The
elites have sequestered themselves on the same planet this time. The
plot is the elites can and do openly mind control everyone and
segregate the population the way they think it should be separated, but
some special people can't be mind controlled and have to be dealt with,
by violence of course. Suffice it to say it gets weird. I mean weird.
Goofy. Nonsensical. Unbelievable. All accurate descriptions of this out
of control mess. I didn't see the first one, and now probably won't
because I already want this 2 hours back.
<|_=00=_|>
Loved the first Divergent movie. Then read all the books and thought
Neil Burger did a great job turning the first book into an accurate and
entertaining film. I was so sad to know he was not directing Insurgent.
And after seeing Insurgent, that sadness was justified.

Robert Schawkle or whatever his name is did an awful job making the 2nd
book into a movie. The 2nd book was lamer than the first, but it had a
much easier plot to deal with. This movie strayed so far from the story
in the book, title should be Insurgent Undone.

They even had a bigger budget for this film, yet made it shorter in
length, cramming scenes in with minimal creativity and almost zero
character development. Almost everything that occurs is not true to the
narrative in the book. Johanna appears to have no scars on her face and
she's fat, wtf. The entire villain of Jeanine is tarnished by a
completely different take on her motives. Book readers of this story
should not watch the film nor appreciate its utter suckiness. Did the
director even glance at the book? Did Veronica Roth really approve this
movie? I am appalled?
<|_=00=_|>
Oh dear god why'd I go see this movie?! If I wanted Hunger Games:
Catching Fire, I should've went to see Hunger Games: Catching Fire.
Wait! No, I take that back. If I wanted Hunger Games, I should've
watched Battle Royale 2.

Cause if I'm honest, this movie is a copycat of a copycat. Oh how I
miss the good old days! The good old days where if you went to see a
movie set in a dystopian future where a corrupt government put its
citizenry in peril on a whim, it was rated R because it contained great
special effects, gritty foul language laced dialogue, and contained
adult themes. But this! Okay! I understand the concept of movie studios
dumbing this type of film down so tweens can partake in something that
makes them feel like they are cool, or makes them feel like their
rebelling.

Even though they aren't really, they're just soaking up things that
have been rehashed from what was cool 25+ years ago. Please! Tween
society, realize that when everyone is a rebel, the only true rebellion
is against rebellion itself!
<|_=00=_|>
First of all: i usually don't like to write review, since this movie
really awful. I felt i need to do this, so you didn't do the same
mistake that i do. Don't waste your time.

Second, i don't understand the story. What kind of world it is. What
faction is? So i just spend my precious 2 hours to watching something
that i don't understand nor the movie try to explain that

Third: story very very bad. At the ending, your friends successfully
infiltrate the enemy headquarter without even noticed by your enemy. If
it's one or two friends, that's okay. But this is the whole battalion.
WUTTTTTTT??????!!!!!!
