
The whole film is shot in Paris and many of the scenes are simply
drippingly gorgeous. It is a very charming movie, with some heavy
undertones and one I will watch again. There's a good message in it.
Loved Dominique Pinon as the real estate agent. Kristin Scott Thomas is
so good, mixing up mean and nasty with tenderness and self-awareness.
Maggie is a stitch and just superb! Kevin excellently portrays a man
who is down and out, carrying around emotional baggage. Stéphane Freiss
always seems to play a neurotic Frenchman, but he does frenzied well.
Many times I laughed out loud in this movie! I've studied French my
whole life, but learned a new word in this movie: viager. I am
surprised critics have come down so hard on it. But, I am almost as old
as Kevin Kline, I adore Paris, I love movies where you can laugh and
still be brought to tears and ones that have a good message.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie as I am a huge fan of Maggie Smith & she is
delightful in the film. However the true star of the film is Kevin
Kline. I thought that his performance was one of his best ever in a
movie. Also wonderful in this film is Kristin Scott Thomas. Her
performance is subtle & moving. And the fact that it is filmed in Paris
is just a wonderful bonus. I found the storyline to be complex & makes
one think of life's choices made along the way. I realize that this
Israel Horowitz's first directorial film & I give him high marks for
that reason. It is based on a play that he wrote & he also did the
screenplay. He is in his early seventies. What a treat!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Went to see this today based on the trailer, from which I thought it
was a comedy. It is funny, but also serious and engaging. Liked it much
more than I thought I would and would definitely recommend it. At the
end I realized that I would want to watch it again to see the themes of
relationship as I then understood them with hindsight. The three
principal actors are all excellent in their roles and in their
relationships with each other. It felt honest and not pretentious or
'preachy', but definitely deep and engaging.

No one ends up the hero in this film, but that is often how real life
often turns out.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very simple film and because it is brilliantly cast and
directed, the result is excellence. Simplicity is something we rarely
see these days yet it is something we crave in these very complex
times. There are really only three characters in this film and so the
casting was paramount. It pretty much goes without saying that Maggie
Smith in the lead role is just perfect - as she always is. By
coincidence, I re-watched Grand Marigold Hotel the following evening,
and saw her playing a totally different person with a totally different
voice. That is a skill that few modern actors can manage well. More of
a surprise to me was Kevin Kline. I remember him in manic roles -
typecast or that's how he is I do not know, but in this film he gave a
beautifully measured and emotional performance with only a few glimmers
of the manic! Finally Kristin Scott-Thomas was just excellent as she
always is. Rarely does an actress gently age so perfectly, and her
performance could not have been faulted for a moment - just superb. 

Very well lit and photographed in what appeared to be quite confined
spaces and with exteriors of Paris that just glowed with it's honey
colour there is a visual treat here. And with very well-recorded sound,
the film was a joy to watch. If your taste is for quality, quiet and
thoughtful, for a well written screenplay based on an excellent story,
with excellent actors, then this is a film you will thoroughly enjoy.
It will definitely have more appeal to an over 50 or even over 60
audience - younger people will miss out on the subtleness and pathos
and not appreciate this film. 

The one thing that I simply could not understand was the title of this
film. In London-speak, my old lady means my mother! Too late to change
now though! 

Enjoying a coffee in the café of the cinema, we got talking to an older
couple sitting next to us. The man had come especially to see Kristin
Scott-Thomas because his granddaughter had been the nanny to one of
Kristin's children in Paris. It is a small world.
<|_=00=_|>
"My Old Lady" is an interesting title for this story of the effects of
giving and taking love. Kline plays Matthias, a broken and wounded 57
year old man who resents the past actions of his father. As the story
unfolds, the characters and ourselves get to put the pieces together,
and some of the facts are shocking. Others just make perfect sense.
Throughout we are treated to some really good acting for what else can
we expect from Kline, Smith, and Scott-Thomas? Kline comes to Paris to
claim his inheritance. Instead he discovers he has inherited more than
an apartment. He now discovers the place is inhabited by his father's
former mistress and a woman who might or not be a relative. Kline has
tried to keep his mental balance for a long time. He is a true
survivor, faced pain, disappointment and had more than his chance of
traumatic moments in his life.

Mathias and Matilda rediscover the common points in their lives. The
story progresses, and we see Mr. Gold has kept a few facts from
everyone, crucial events that shaped the future destiny of all the
children involved. It is a cathartic time, a moment to heal or face
complete destruction.

It's amazing to see how Smith is able to create characters that fully
dimensional. She has played women in the late stages of their lives,
from aristocratic and uptight to goofy and cantankerous. Here she's in
a whole different universe, a woman who has lived a selfish existence
and appears not ready to change. Has she always been that way, or has
she also been a victim of circumstances? Scott-Thomas is her daughter,
Chloe, a woman in her fifties, clinging on to self-destructive
relationships, bitter, and combative, and barely attached to her
mother, probably mostly from obligation than affection. We know her
past is full of trauma, too, and we wonder why is it that her mother
appears to have no concerns for her daughter's mental state.

Enter Matthias, and their stable but emotional lives will change
immediately, with change that is neither slow or immediate. It takes a
while for every piece to fall into place, and the movie has both
touching revelations, but at times recalls its theatrical source, and
it feels a bit stilted. Not of this is the actors' fault because they
give it their best, and it wouldn't be surprising if the substance
abuse here leads to a few nominations in the near future.

The movie will probably never be a crowd pleaser; it is more of a
showcase for the talents of all those involved, and it delivers for the
most part.
<|_=00=_|>
We tried fairly hard to enjoy this movie, but it was ultimately a
disappointing way to spend an evening, and turned into a bit of a trial
just to get through. We had no preconceptions, having made a fairly
spontaneous decision to watch it based on the interesting premise of
the story outline alone. To its credit it was mostly unpredictable and
failed to fall conveniently into a genre, but that was also part of its
undoing. By about a third of the way through the lack of clear genre
slowly became lack of clear direction, and motivations of characters
(and plot) became implausible and unbelievable. Surprisingly, while the
acting was generally fine, Kevin Kline's portrayal of his character
became grating and over-acted. By about half way the movie had become
completely obsessed in a Woody Allen way with personal introspection
and psycho-therapeutic evaluation of parent/child relationships, which
left us not caring any longer what happened to any of the increasingly
unlikable characters, and looking at our watches. All of this might
have been tolerable if the movie was in any way entertaining or thought
provoking. It wasn't, and the only real emotional response we
registered was cringing a few times. Overall, it just fell flat.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. Though my childhood upbringing does not mirror that of the
characters in this movie, I come from a toxic childhood. The pain and
dysfunction of these characters resonated with me in a profound way.
Narcissistic parents can abuse their children and all those around them
without overt verbal abuse and without ever laying a hand on them, and
sometimes, that type of abuse can inflict the worst kind of lasting
trauma and psychological damage. Living under the burden of your
parents' sins can be a crushing lifelong weight. While they live their
life exactly as they see fit every single day of their lives with no
regard for the consequences or the fallout for those around them, when
they have children, it's their children that pay the highest price for
their parents' sins of constantly seeking and receiving instant
gratification. Instant gratification is something that many parents
will steer their children away from after the age of 2 or 3-years-old
in favor of more thoughtful, considerate, long-term rewards. However,
children of narcissists are denied gratification growing up, as their
parents claim it all for themselves, and the pied piper must be paid.
Ironically, the trauma is compounded by the fact that narcissists
absolutely believe themselves to be the best and most loving parents
any child could have, giving themselves God-like status, who can do no
wrong in their own minds. When someone gets hurt, they will say that it
was meant to be, and they will tell any lie necessary to fit that
narrative. Children want and need most of all to be loved, cherished,
and valued. Children of narcissists grow up without having those basic
needs met. Instead, they become useful tools, and they're "lucky" if
they also become attractive possessions to their parents. The flip side
of that is that if they are not their parent's tool or an attractive
possession, then they are of no value to their parent. I found Kevin
Kline's Mathias authentic and believable. His pain was palpable. Maggie
Smith did an excellent job, as well. I thought her brave to play
Mathilde Girard, as Mrs. Girard is not likable. Kirsten Scott Thomas'
performance was very good, too, once you discover the personal damage
she's concealed. This is a quiet film. The story unfolds slowly, which
was exactly how I needed to see it play out. I felt like I was
eavesdropping, like I was lurking and seeing and hearing what was not
for me to know just as Mathias and Chloé lived under the burden of
their parents' lies, and through no fault and no choice of their own,
had become a very part of the front designed to disguise the lies for
an entire lifetime. If all of this seems completely foreign to your
experience, you may completely despise this movie. This may be a
trigger for some. Or maybe, you'll begin to discover that the burden
you carry was bestowed upon you by those, who should have loved and
sheltered you the most. Without your consent, those sins are not really
your burden. The lies are not your truth. Maybe your perspective will
be changed however slight. The discovery of a common thread can lead to
an epiphany if only a small one. The three lead characters carried this
well all the way to its satisfying end. Watch, and if you feel that
your soul was damaged long ago by means beyond your control, take this
short journey with Mathias, Mathilde, and Chloé, and hopefully, find a
bit of solace in the truth.
<|_=00=_|>
25 November 2014 Fiona's Second Film of Choice at The Plaza Dorchester
Tonight - My Old Lady. I thought this was going to be a comedy, but in
reality the best mildly funny scenes were all included in the trailer.
Having said that, this was a very touching film about relationships and
dysfunctional families and a very strange set of French Laws. In a
nutshell, Mathias Gold, played by Kevin Kline, inherits an apartment in
France from his late father. Spending his last dime to travel to Paris
he discovers to his dismay that the apartment comes with a tenant
Mathilde Girard (Maggie Smith) who is allowed to stay there until her
death, and to compound things he has to pay rent to her. Determined to
find a way to sell the apartment and make some money Mathias tries
everything he can to achieve his goal. As the story progresses we meet
Chloe who is Mathilde's daughter and has issues of her own. Although
slow in places this charming film winds it's way through the streets of
Paris much as the seine flows past Notre Dame and once again having
watched a film set in France I find myself wanting to go and visit once
again.
<|_=00=_|>
My husband and I love Paris, Kevin Kline and Maggie Smith; so a film
with all three was a must on our viewing list. However, we came across
some pretty bad reviews and wondered whether we should see it at all.
The cinema was a small one and, as we decided to go to the early
afternoon show, it wasn't very crowded. We were delighted to find the
three leading actors lived up to their usual high standard; the story
line worked for us right to the end; and the views of Paris as well as
the interior of the apartment managed to capture the mood very well.
From finding it really quite amusing at first, the film took a rather
darker turn two thirds of the way in; but we felt that the way it was
handled sent out a very real and necessary message. I presume it could
be classed as a black comedy...but this should not put you off from
seeing it, and one does not leave feeling it was a waste of time or
money!
<|_=00=_|>
Mathias Gold (Kevin Kline) arrives in Paris to claim his inheritance.
His father left him a large apartment in the city and not much else. He
is thrice divorced, failed writer and penniless. He hopes to sell the
apartment quickly and leave. Instead he finds Mathilde Girard (Maggie
Smith) living there. His father had actually bought the place as a
viager. Mathilde lives in the apartment until her death and gets paid
2400 a month. She allows him to stay which infuriates her daughter
Chloé Girard (Kristin Scott Thomas). François Roy needs to buy the
apartment to build his hotel.

The problem is that the dangers in this movie isn't that high. It's a
self-pity party and at the end of it, he becomes a multi-millionaire. I
can certainly see Chloé's point of view but she was always going to be
kicked out. I don't see why selling to the hotelier is such an evil
act. The whole situation has no real conflict other than one ginned up
by the movie.

It's not until the movie gets personal that the real drama begins. The
three characters have interesting hidden conflicts. The three actors
are acting the hell out of it. However it goes off down an off-putting
alley. It's weirdly awkward navel gazing. I can't feel for any of the
characters. The movie doesn't have any intensity for me.
