
Whilst most men would agree that giving women the vote was a dreadful
mistake (put that stone down ladies. it's just a joke), the
astonishing story behind the UK social upheaval that was the
Suffragette movement is well overdue a serious cinematic treatment. And
a serious treatment Sarah Gavron's new film most certainly is: you exit
the cinema feeling about as wrung out as the linen in the heroine
Maud's workhouse-style laundry.

Carey Mulligan plays Maud Watts, an ordinary and anonymous working
woman who progressively gets sucked into the anarchic rabble-rousing of
an East-end branch of the Pankhurst's Women's Social and Political
Union (WSPU). With operations run out of a chemist's shop by Edith
Ellyn (Helena Bonham Carter) and her sympathetic husband, Maud risks a
criminal record and the shame associated with that to pursue her
ideals. Police pressure is applied by special forces copper Arthur
Steed (Harry Potter's Brendan Gleeson) and personal pressure is put on
her by her husband (played by Ben Whishaw, soon to be seen again as
'Q') and her alleged fitness to be a mother to their young son George
(Adam Michael Dodd). As politicians continue to ignore the issue, the
actions build to one of the most historic events of the period.

The struggle is seen very much through the limited prism of this select
group of women. But where I really liked this film is in the slow
awakening of Maud's character. In many ways it is like the germination
of a seed that we are seeing on the screen. She starts without any
interest in the movement and even mid-way through the film she is
adamant that she is "not a suffragette", despite evidence to the
contrary. Mulligan is, as always, completely brilliant in the role.

The supporting cast are all strong with Gleeson being particularly
watchable as the lawman with a grudging respect for Maud and her cause.
Meryl Streep makes a powerful cameo as Emily Pankhurst: but it is a
short and sweet performance. Maud's friend Violet (Anne-Marie Duff) is
also outstanding, her gaunt face delivering a haunting performance.

Whilst there are some highly emotionally charged scenes in the film, in
a political sense the film has a curious lack of passion at times. A
keynote speech to Lloyd George for example should have been electric -
yet the Abi Morgan's script doesn't quite do the scene justice and if I
was the MP I wouldn't have been impressed (which perhaps was the
point).

I also had issues with some of the cinematography. Carey Mulligan has
such an expressive and photogenic face that extreme close ups should
work brilliantly. And yet filming it with a hand-held camera produces a
constantly shifting image which was extremely distracting. Elsewhere in
the art department though 1912 London is beautifully recreated, through
both special effects, costume and make-up.

Alexandre Desplat delivers a touching score with a clever underlying
drumbeat of change.

Suffragette is a solid historical drama, that tells an important social
tale a tale that graphically illustrates how much the world has really
changed, and changed for the better, in a mere hundred years. Above
all, the film concludes with the astounding fact that Switzerland only
gave women the vote in 1971 (and in fact with one canton holding out on
local issues until 1991). Shameful!

(Please find the full graphical review at bob-the-movie-man.com and
sign up to receive future reviews).
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a fictionalized story of a woman caught up in the suffrage
movement in Britain in the early 20th century. Carry Mulligan plays
Maud Watts...a woman who slowly comes into the movement and the
sacrifices she personally made as a result.

I noticed that a few of the reviews on IMDb hated the film and by the
way they worded the reviews, they seemed upset that women earned the
right to vote or thought women never had fight to achieve this!!
Strange...very strange. Women DID have to fight and fight hard to earn
their rights and the film does a very nice job of it. Why anyone would
give the film a 1 or see it as some lie is just baffling...and ignorant
of British history. The fictionalized life of Carry Mulligan's is
essentially true of many women and the horrific event concerning Emily
Davison DID occur in 1913....so why hate that the film dramatizes this?

Overall, the film is extremely compelling and very emotional to watch.
Seeing women abused and mistreated is tough....and should grab your
heart. Well acted and worth seeing. My only complaint is ts are that
the film, at times, is a bit sterile...which is odd considering the
events. And, it uses a modern device I hate--the roving camera (hold
that camera still #@&@#%^...it's NOT arsty to have bad camera
work--particularly on closeups). Still, well worth seeing--
particularly for teens to realize how bad things were and how far we've
come.
<|_=00=_|>
It can be risky critiquing a film homage to heroines of feminism,
especially one with a star cast that includes Carey Mulligan, Helena
Bonham Carter, Ben Whishaw and a Meryl Streep cameo. Respect for the
cause, however, does not guarantee respect for the film, and this one
chooses a very limited lens with which to view this episode of history.
It does have high production values, narrative authenticity and
sensitivity for the feminist struggle in early 20th century Britain.
But it gets lost in balancing the broader sweep of history that shapes
gender relations and the impact of particular individuals.

The story line is uni-linear, the atmosphere dark and claustrophobic,
and much of the acting is melodramatic, with long close-ups of
Mulligan's finely nuanced expressions recording her progress from an
abused laundry worker to what today would be called a radicalised
political terrorist. The historical lens is so myopic that you could
walk away believing the vote was won by a few protesting women, the
bombing of some public letterboxes and a suffragette who threw herself
under the King's horse. No more strugglejob done! Of course, that is
not true and the struggle continues.

Despite these limitations, it's a finely crafted British film. The
fictional heroine Maude Watts is an avatar for the British working
class women who risked everything, including their lives, in fighting
for the vote. Men of all classes are the demons of this tale, and one
of its chilling insights is how the most dangerous enemies of
suffragettes were husbands. Patriarchal governments left it to ordinary
menfolk to sort out their unruly women in an era where wives were
legally subordinate to husbands. Maude's contempt for her treatment at
work and home propels her into the swirling orbit of violent protest
where "war is the only language men listen to". Evicted by her husband
for shaming him, she is left with nothing; by law, even her son was her
husband's property. During the struggles, over one thousand British
women were imprisoned and treated shamefully, a fact only acknowledged
in the film's closing credits. Admittedly, historical judgement is
difficult to translate into cinematic language, but many films have
done it better. If you are interested in the history of feminist
struggle from the viewpoint of the small people who made up the bigger
story you will like this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Solid performances, great period design, and a historical event worth
telling. Unfortunately, the script is clichéd, giving us two stock
characters -- the Radicalized Innocent and the Worldly Wise Secret
Policeman -- who go through their expected paces. You could probably
tell the same story today with a European Muslim in the Carey Mulligan
role.

Getting involved in Suffragette activism upends the life of Mulligan's
character, Maud. It cuts her off from her work, her husband, her child
and her community, but it introduces her to a wider world of ideas and
of people of a higher social class who she would never otherwise have
known. It would have been fascinating to learn what became of Maud in
her new milieu, what kind of job she found, and what kind of new life
she built with her old one in ruins. In particular, it would have been
interesting to see how she dealt with the new opportunities for English
women created by World War I. That would have been an empowerment story
to get involved in. But the movie just drops Maud with a historical
footnote about when women got the vote in the UK and various other
countries.
<|_=00=_|>
For those who are unfamiliar with the history of the women's suffrage
movement in Britain, director Sarah Gavron and screenwriter Abi Morgan
have reminded us that the more radical participants did not follow the
non-violent civil disobedience program as promoted by Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr., during the 1960s Civil Rights movement here in America. Quite
the contrary, the suffrage movement leader in Britain, Emmeline
Parnkhurst (played by Meryl Streep in a brief cameo), called for
violent protest. And as the film makes clear, the violent nature of the
protests escalated from broken shop windows to bombs thrown into
mailboxes, clashes with police and even the arson torching of
Chancellor of the Exchequer Lloyd George's summer home.

Gavron and Morgan tell this historical story through the fictional lens
of their protagonist, Maud Watts, a laundress from a working class
background. I would say their character is atypical of a woman of 1912,
the year in which the Suffragette narrative begins. It's a much safer
bet to believe that the average woman of that time was sympathetic to
the cause but disapproved of tactics involving any kinds of violent
resistance.

While Maud might be atypical, Gavron and Moran argue in substance that
she represents the type of radical Suffragette that actually was the
catalyst in upsetting the social order, eventually leading to the vote
for women. This was essentially Pankhurst's view initially toothat
violence was the only language the men of the time understood. But the
film's scenarists go a step further, suggesting that Maud is a symbol
of victimization at the hands of a nefarious paternalistic society.

Maud is not only betrayed by the male establishment politically (note
how her brave impromptu speech in front of Lloyd George falls on deaf
ears), but she is subjugated by a coterie of evil sexist males at every
turn. These males include her loathsome boss who apparently has been
molesting his female employees for years (presumably even Maude) as
well as her co-worker husband, Sonny, who locks her out of the house
after she's arrested and then puts Maud's beloved son up for adoption.
Then there's the matrons and prison officials who brutalize Maud and
her colleagues, force feeding them against their will, not to mention
the police, who club women in broad daylight, following peaceful
demonstrations.

It's not that these things didn't happen, but it just seems all of them
happen to Maud, making her less of a fully realized character and more
fodder for agitprop. She even is part of the plot to firebomb Lloyd
George's summer cottage. Fortunately there is one semi-fleshed out
character that keeps things moderately interesting: the antagonist of
the drama, Inspector Steed (Brendan Gleeson), who tails Maud and her
confederates, taking surveillance photos with his technologically
innovative, newfangled camera. Steed has the best scene with Maud
during a prison interview he informs her that the firebombing of Lloyd
George's cottage almost claimed a victima housekeeper, who returned to
the house after forgetting something and just missed being killed. Maud
is nonplussed at Steed's "means to an end" diatribe and gets in her
jabs in by pointing to the government's hypocrisy, who deny women their
basic rights.

The weakest part of the script involves the climax. How does one tie up
Maud's story? Well, just forget about her and focus on the plight of
Emily Davison who became a martyr to the Suffragette cause in 1913. Ms.
Davison had the unfortunate idea of making a statement at the Epsom
Derby where King George V's horse was running in the annual race. In
front of three separate Pathe newsreel cameras that were filming the
event, she stepped under the railing and on to the racetrack while the
race was in progress (amazingly, you can watch it all on Youtube!).
Some believed she wanted to commit suicide but a modern day blowup of
the footage reveals she was attempting to pin a banner on the horse as
it raced by. Unfortunately the horse perceived Ms. Davison as an
obstacle to jump over, but missed, bowling her over and crushing her
skull (she died after four days in a coma).

We never do find out what happens to Maud after the tragic event at the
Epsom Derby but do see actual newsreel footage of the thousands of
women who attended Emily Davison's funeralthe true-life quiet dignity
of her supporters outshines the perhaps misguided over aggressive
militancy of a fictional Maud.

Suffragette features a number of both fictional and non-fictional
supporting players that give one a flavor for whom was involved in the
women's suffrage movement. Carey Mulligan does well as Maud Watts,
adroitly capturing the intensity of the composite character Gavron and
Morgan have served up here.

In the end the women's suffrage movement was a bit more complicated
than one character's struggle against a monolithic sexist society.
Notably Emmeline Pankhurst supported the British government during
World War I and became a strident anti-Communist up until her death in
1928. As a basic history lesson, Suffragette manages to get a few
things right historically about the women's suffrage movement, but is
less convincing in its melodramatic treatment of its strident heroine.
<|_=00=_|>
After watching Suffragette for the second time I had hoped to have
formed a different opinion, initially I left the cinema feeling bored
and underwhelmed. The problem I'd say I have with it is that I find it
strangely vacuous, on no level can I connect with it, or any of its
characters. That is not to say that I find the acting bad, indeed far
from it, there are some cracking performances, Carey Mulligan, Anne
Marie Duff and for the amount she's actually in it, Helena Bonham
Carter. Mulligan delivers frustration and despair well, she loses her
family, her job, dignity and lashes out on her pig of a boss.

I found it a little like a grim version of Made in Dagenham with hats
on. There are much better sources out there detailing the Suffragette
movement, I know it's a film, but the core essence of what was being
demanded, and exactly who was demanding it seemed to be lacking. Why
wasn't there a single sympathetic man in the entire film, surely every
single man at the time was the same? Even lovely Ben Whishaw was nasty.

Meryl Streep's speech was the highlight of the film, she had presence
and added a realism to the character, in her all to brief appearance.

It's not the easiest film to get through, it leaves you feeling a
little flat, with the cast and subject matter it could have been
special, I wonder had it been made on the small screen as a series
would it have worked better? A few lighter touches would have truly
helped. I thought the credits at the end were a nice touch.

Disappointing, 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
This story of how in 1912 and 1913 British women fought for the right
to vote is immensely worthy, technically accomplished and well-acted
but, as cinema, it somehow fails to engage. At the conclusion of the
movie, we are reminded that it was not until 1928 that full women's
suffrage was achieved in the UK and even today women in a country like
Saudi Arabia do not have the vote. The very act of creating this film
is a contemporary testimony to female equality since, as well as all
the lead acting roles, women fill the positions of writer (Abi Morgan)
and director (Sarah Gavron) as well as producers (six out of the nine).
The female domination of "Suffragette" serves to underline how few
films ate directed and written by women and how underpaid female actors
are compared to their male counterparts. The struggle for equality is
not over.

Although the leadership of the suffragette movement came from
middle-class women, Morgan has chosen to tell the story through the
eyes of a working class laundry worker Maud Watts, wonderfully
portrayed by Carey Mulligan - whom I have admired since her performance
in "An Education" (2009) - who is brought into the movement by fellow
worker Violet (Anne-Marie Duff). Other suffragettes are played by
Helena Bonham- Carter (actually a descendant of a Prime Minister who
opposed votes for women), Romola Garai (whose career does not seem to
have taken off as much as she deserves), and - in an all too tiny cameo
- Meryle Streep as Emmeline Pankhurst.
<|_=00=_|>
Years ago the BBC did a series SHOULDER TO SHOULDER (1974) that told
the story of the origins and development of the Women's Movement in
Britain, with special attention paid to the WSPU (Women's Social and
Political Union).

Sarah Gavron's film revisits the same territory as it tells the story
of the gradual awakening of Maud Watts (Carey Mulligan) as she sets her
marriage and family aside in favor of the Women's Movement. The crux of
the action centers around the death of Emily Wilding Davison (Natalie
Press) at the 1913 Derby, as she stepped out in front of the horses
finishing the race and was crushed to death.

In view of the film's earnestness of purpose, it seems a shame to
criticize it. However there are certain jarring elements that do stand
out. Abi Morgan's screenplay seems uncertain whether to focus on the
political or the familial elements. Maud's husband Sonny (Ben Whishaw)
is just too placid a personality to become truly angry about his wife's
decision to embrace the Suffagette cause, and the emotional scene where
he decides to let his son George (Adam Michael Dodd) to for adoption is
straight out of KRAMER VS. KRAMER. 

Director Gavron seems too concerned with showing tight close-ups of
Mulligan's face as she struggles her way through a dead-end job at the
local laundry. Hence we get little sense of the slave-like existence
pursued by most working-class women at that time. Meryl Streep, in the
cameo of role of Emmeline Pankhurst, simply reprises her Margaret
Thatcher turn in THE IRON LADY (2011).

On the other hand, the film does have its moments, especially when Maud
goes to the Houses of Parliament and ends up talking about her life in
front of David Lloyd George (Adrian Schiller). We get the sense of how
much courage it takes to speak up in front of a group of unsympathetic
middle-aged men. Helena Bonham Carter is quite surprisingly good as
Edith Ellyn, especially in a sequence where she and her co-
conspirators plan to blow up a private property constructed for Lloyd
George's personal pleasure. The way Edith grinds up the gunpowder
reveals her inherent anger at the ways in which women are treated.

The ending is also powerful, as Gavron fades out from the film into
faded black-and-white films of Emily Davison's actual funeral taken in
1913. Through this technique we are made aware of the film's importance
to an understanding of British social history.
<|_=00=_|>
The first feature film I can remember dealing with the fight for
women's voting rights in the United Kingdom, puts its subject across
respectfully, if carefully. Most of the major events I've read about
historically on the movement's road to enfranchisement are covered in
the film, like the letterbox campaign, attack on Lloyd George's house,
their hunger strike and resultant force-feeding in prison and most
famously the shocking martyrdom of Emily Davidson who ran onto Epsom
racecourse on Derby Day in front of the King's horse, are all depicted,
the latter very realistically. 

The device used by the writer and director to get the viewer close to
the action is through the invented Carey Mulligan character Maud Watts,
a young factory worker, docilely married to her husband and the doting
mother of their infant son who develops an interest in the suffragette
movement through a work colleague. Stepping in for the latter at an
important consultation with a UK Government committee on votes for
women, she finds herself, initially unwillingly, drawn into activism on
behalf of the cause.

I did feel the film somewhat overdid her travails and some of the
coincidental events in her life. We learn indirectly that her male
employer has abused her at work since she was a child and who is now
doing so to another pre-teen girl at the factory. Her husband doesn't
understand her new found politicism and in short order expels her from
their house, denying her access to her son and eventually having him
adopted without her knowledge. She too is the one accompanying Davidson
at the Derby. While I laud the equally important political point of
maternal rights to their children in the event of marital separation
being argued along with voter's rights, I did feel that the world
seemed to resolve too much around Mulligan's character. She thus comes
across more as a cipher than a real person and the film might have
played better if she had been based on a real person.

I also felt the sub-plot about the child-molesting boss jarred somewhat
and belonged in a different film entirely, the two main causes didn't
need this extra justification, heinous as the crimes are. While I'm
criticising, I also felt the cliff-hanging direction style employed
(especially in the build-up to the Derby climax) was overdone with
looming orchestral swells in the background and a virtual countdown to
the incident itself, to be somewhat inconsistent with the seriousness
of the subject matter.

The acting is good by most of the leads, Mulligan in particular. Quite
why they rolled out the barrel to find a place in the cast for Meryl
Streep to deliver a brief but showy cameo as the cause's figurehead
Emmeline Pankhurst, I don't know. Nevertheless in its gritty depiction
of the privations and struggles of the brave women who challenged the
male-dominated political landscape of the day, this film deserves
admiration and recognition for its subject matter if not quite for its
execution.
<|_=00=_|>
'SUFFRAGETTE': Four Stars (Out of Five)

Historical drama flick; about the beginning of the first feminist
movement, in early 1900's Britain. It was directed by Sarah Gavron and
written by Abi Morgan. It stars Carey Mulligan, Helena Bonham Carter,
Brendan Gleeson, Ben Whishaw, Anne-Marie Duff, Natalie Press and Meryl
Streep (in a cameo appearance). The film has received mostly positive
reviews from critics, and it could possibly become an upcoming awards
contender. I found the movie to be educational, somewhat emotional (at
times) and inspiring.

The film tells the story of a 24-year-old young woman, named Maud Watts
(Mulligan). Maud was a wife, mother and laundress; in the UK, during
the early 1900's. One day, while trying to deliver a package, she
recognizes a co-worker, named Violet (Duff), who's involved in a
suffragette riot (destroying windows). Maud is later asked to testify,
for the right to vote, in place of Violet; due to the fact that
Violet's husband severely beat her. After that, Maud gets extremely
caught up in the movement; much to the disappointment of her husband,
Sonny (Whishaw), who kicks her out of their house, because of it. Maud
continues to sacrifice more and more, for the fight, including losing
contact with her young son, George (Adam Michael Dodd).

I really like movies about rebellion; and what's more inspiring than a
film about half the population, fighting back against the corrupt
system, which oppresses it? In that way, the movie can't miss. It's
well directed, decently written and powerfully acted (Mulligan is
especially impressive in the lead). Streep is only in one scene of the
film; and it's extremely manipulative, for the advertisers to have used
her so much to sell the movie (that's not the filmmakers' fault
though). I only wish the film would have been a little more emotional;
it's very dramatic at times, but it seems like it could have done a
little more.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/CoUgbXLzKSQ
