
The Conjuring 2 doesn't waste time in bringing the scares in. By that,
I mean you're pretty much in the thick of it within three minutes or
so, being given some background (via another very notorious haunting
incident) for what is to follow.

The Warrens are sent on behalf of the church to investigate some
paranormal activity which is whipping up a media storm in Enfield,
England and, as per the first movie, they go and attempt to work their
magic on the situation. As per the first movie, a family is being
haunted and they fear for their sanity and lives. There are a few new
twists this time round, so all does not play out as before - but it's
not a complete departure from the format, which might have made it a
bit more gripping in places. 

James Wan's trademark visual style is repeated in this movie - his bag
of tricks sometimes yielding a sense of deja vu but generally working
like a charm. When it's intended to scare, it really does. The scares
come a bit more frequently than in the first movie and do manage to
build a lot of tension, even if you've seen the original, so well done
to Wan for that.

What's really enjoyable about this movie, is its nostalgic recreation
of 70s England. Wan has really done a great job of this, which is
surprising given that he's not from there. Also, the central support
role of Janet Hodgson is pretty crucial to empathising with the Enfield
family and Madison Wolfe gives a solid performance.

It's arguable this one is as strong as the first. I really enjoyed it
and would recommend it to anyone who enjoyed part one, or indeed likes
movies of a haunting or possession theme. 

Stick around for the credits - the music is seriously unsettling!
<|_=00=_|>
Wow wow wow!! I've never been much of a fan of sequels but The
Conjuring 2 was incredible. I'm never one to jump at everything 'scary'
I see in movies as usually you've seen it all before & let's be honest,
nothing really scares you much when your not a teenager anymore.
However The Conjuring had me jumping all over the place. At one point I
even yelped, much to my embarrassment, but that's why we go to horror
movies! To be scared & the conjuring didn't disappoint. All actors gave
amazing performances & the story had you never in a state of boredom.
Walking out of the cinema I couldn't wait to see what The Conjuring 3
would bring! (Assuming we're lucky enough for another). Definitely a
movie to see in the cinema. I give it 10/10!! Great movie!!
<|_=00=_|>
First, the all-important question: Is The Conjuring 2 scary? Like, jump
out of your seat, watch through your outstretched fingers scary? The
answer to that is "yes." Under James Wan's direction, even the most
clichéd haunted-house tropes (and this movie is bursting with them) are
genuinely creepy, and although the movie isn't overly reliant on jump
scares, the ones it does usewell, they work. On a lizard-brain level,
The Conjuring 2 taps into the universal childhood fear of the dark, and
some of its simplest momentslike a little girl hiding under the covers
with a flashlightare its most effective, bolstered by skillfully
executed sound design and Don Burgess' gloomy cinematography.

Speaking of tropes, that's where the "based on a true story" bit comes
in. The main plot of the film revolves around a real-life incident
known as the Enfield Poltergeist, an extremely well-documented case of
a supposed ghost who terrorized the Hodgson family of North London from
1977 to 1979 and was apparently a fan of the classics: knocking on
walls, shaking beds, throwing furniture, and even the occasional
haunted kid's toy. And as malevolent spirits often do, it picked on one
of the children in particular, 11-year-old Janet Hodgson (Madison
Wolfe). Call it a collective delusion, or a desperate cry for attention
from a disturbed child. Or call it what the movie very explicitly calls
it: The Devil.

With this installment, the Conjuring movies may have overtaken The
Exorcist as the most Christian of horror franchises, taking place in a
universe where the Catholic Church is the spiritual S.H.I.E.L.D. and
demon hunters Ed (Patrick Wilson) and Lorraine Warren (Vera Farmiga)
its holy roller super-agents. The film opens with the Warrens
investigating the famous Amityville case, during the course of which
Lorraine first encounters the hellish presence that will haunt her for
the next few years. Fearing for his life, she begs her husband to
suspend any future paranormal investigations, to which he reluctantly
agrees. Until, that is, a priest arrives to give them their next
mission: Travel to London and confirm the veracity of reports of a
demonically tinged haunting.

Both Farmiga and Wilson are given their chance to shine in spooky set
piecesFarmiga early on in the film, Wilson later. But while they're
both convincing in spiritual warrior mode, Wan's decision to play up
the romance between the two doesn't quite work. We knew that the
Warrens were a happily married couple in the first movie, but having
them each individually tell the story of their paranormal love and Ed
make suggestive comments about the sleeping arrangements seems odd,
maybe because they're flirting in front of a possessed pre-teen whose
soul is currently in the process of being swallowed by the Pit. (On the
other hand, this is just another day at the office for the Warrens.)
The non-horror elements of the film are uneven in general: The score,
so effective in the fright scenes, suddenly evokes eye rolls when
things start to get sentimental, and there's one scene of unintentional
comedy where the film's retro '70s settinganother element downplayed
in the first film but foregrounded herecollides with its demonic
imagery in an honestly pretty silly way. (The Conjuring 2 shares its
predecessor's eye for period details, some of which seem out-and-out
ridiculous until they're juxtaposed with photos of their real-life
counterparts in the end credits. The on-the-nose pop music gets no such
redemption.) That being said, there are also some truly funny moments,
like a shot of the Hodgson family running from their haunted house
after a particularly intense bout of psychokinetic activity that riffs
on smartasses' favorite retort, "Why don't they just move?" (And, for
the record, they don't move because it's public housing, and the local
council, which is naturally quite skeptical of the whole "ghost" thing,
has to approve the relocation.) It's also worth noting that The
Conjuring 2 is more than two hours long, allowing for lots of
escalation. And while each individual haunting scene can be
white-knuckle intense, by the dozenth or so such shock, the film starts
to lose momentum. So the final confrontation, when it does come, is a
relief in more ways than one. The long running time also allows Wan to
overthink his demonology: The main villain, an infernal nun, is
appropriately nightmarish, if reminiscent of the veiled "Bride In
Black" from Wan's own Insidious. What's less compelling is the
insertion of the "Crooked Man," a storybook scarecrow monster that
starts spreading Babadook-esque chaos about halfway through and is
explained as the demon assuming a form that's familiar to the Hodgsons.
Which would be fine, if it weren't for the two familiar forms that the
spirit has taken already.

When The Conjuring 2 focuses its efforts on scaring the audience, it
succeeds, wildly. And why wouldn't it? Wan's got his horror technique
locked down at this point. It's the parts where it wanders away from
the basics of creating and releasing tension that prevent it from
outdoing its predecessor.
<|_=00=_|>
The Conjuring was a shocking horror film. It combined every creepy
trope you can think of (ghosts, dolls, music boxes, mirrors, you name
it), and it actually worked thanks to a genre-savvy director behind the
curtains. James Wan has proved himself a capable producer on projects
such as Saw and Insidious, and with The Conjuring, he cemented himself
as a master of the genre. It had the perfect amalgam of horror tropes
crafted in such a way that felt as fresh and spine-tingling as classic
haunted house movies did in the '80s. The Conjuring 2 is another "based
on true events" tale that has us follow expert paranormal
investigators, the Warrens, this time solving the mystery of the
Enfield Haunting. 

Similar to the Amityville Haunting, the Enfield Haunting sees an
English family plagued with a poltergeist that doesn't seem to enjoy
the presence of anyone in the house. What The Conjuring 2 succeeds at
is giving us both character development and another great story, which
is exactly what a good sequel should do. The acting is uniformly great,
but the true star of the film is James Wan. His shots are designed in a
way to imbue dread and stir it around our heads for a while before
hitting us with the scare. That's what true horror lacks these days,
patience. The longer the anticipation is built and the more atmosphere
is created, the more unsettling the situation becomes until it's like a
ticking time bomb that you anxiously wait to go off. It uses familiar
tropes, such as self-starting children's toys, slamming doors, and
smashing furniture, but they're used as tools to mask the truly
frightening fact that this family is up against something utterly
beyond their control - they're hopeless, and we can feel it.

Mind you, The Conjuring 2 isn't without its faults. The runtime is a
blatant offender. Pushing the 2-hour mark is never a good idea for a
horror film, and some fat definitely could have been trimmed. There are
a handful of cheap scares, audio scares to be precise - when the music
gets extremely loud all of a sudden and you find yourself more annoyed
than scared, quickly reaching for the remote to turn the volume down at
the risk of enduring another ear drum shattering noise. It also doesn't
feel as unique as its predecessor, understandably due to the very
nature of sequels, but there are moments that drag on long enough to
remind you that the first Conjuring didn't have these plodding plot
points. For example, it takes about an hour for the Warrens to even get
to England. Also, while in the haunted house, they're able to sleep
through some horrifying sounds that would snap a bear right out of
hibernation. But these dull spots and plot inconsistencies are few and
far between.

The Conjuring 2 is how a horror sequel should be done. It's slick,
stylish, fun, and at times, quite terrifying. When a horror movie makes
me want to turn on the lights as I go roaming around the house at
night, I consider that a job well done. The Conjuring 2, well done.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Conjuring 2" is an excellent example of what more sequels should
aspire to be. It is a perfectly executed haunting movie from James Wan
that dives deep below the surface to explore themes of vision, belief
and faith. The family drama is still right at the center and is quite
effective, and Vera Farmiga and Patrick Wilson are excellent to their
roles. The film doesn't give anything new at the horror movie genre,
but its set pieces are often impressive, even if sometimes rely a bit
on jump scares. The truth is that "The Conjuring 2" has enough suspense
and story to have appeal for all kinds of horror fans and is a film
clever enough to scare us. nikisreviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
The Conjuring 2 is directed by James Wan and stars Vera Farmiga and
Patrick Wilson. The Conjuring 2 is an excellent horror movie and just a
flat out great movie in general. From the camera-work to the
performances this movie delivers on all fronts. The plot follows a
family in poverty in Einfield,England that start experiencing strange
happenings in their home. After things become much worse over a period
of time The Warrens are contacted to come and help. This is a very
scary movie thanks to James Wan's direction from lingering and tracking
shots he is truly a master behind the camera. The scares come quite
often as scenes will linger and bring a huge sense of tension and get
you when your not expecting it bringing some very frightening scenes.
Vera Farmiga and Patrick Wilsons performances are excellent as you buy
into their relationship and learn some lessons on marriage. The
children actors have the be given credit too as they are great in this
film. These kids are terrified of the haunting and you will feel their
dread. I am so satisfied with this film generally people worry about
horror sequels usually because they can turn out unsuccessful, but I am
happy to report as a big fan of the first movie this is just as great.
<|_=00=_|>
I was able to see 'The Conjuring 2' at an advanced screening last night
and I left feeling surprisingly satisfied. I can't remember the last
time I saw a horror sequel that was able to hold it's own against it's
predecessor, but with James Wan at the helm; I went in cautiously
optimistic. 

Let me say off the bat that this movie is legitimately scary. It's the
scariest horror film I've seen in a while and it does have genius
scares, despite having many in the first half that felt a little cheap.
This brings me to my biggest problem with 'The Conjuring 2'. Though
this movie is consistently intense and definitely never boring, I felt
that the first 50-or-so minutes were often formulaic and ineffective.
This is a structural problem that I had and I'm sure it won't be a
problem for many audience members. 

That entire first act consists of many individual scenes that all end
in a scare, and the majority of these scares don't necessarily feel
earned. So as a result; this section of the film often feels repetitive
and drawn out. By this, I mean that one specific character reacts to
one disturbing scare by not telling anyone about it. It also includes a
few clichés that didn't greatly affect the plot and wouldn't be missed
(e.g Ouija board, children hearing something and getting out of bed to
look for it; seriously this happens way too many times in this movie).
I'm perfectly fine with film-makers experimenting with structure, but
I'm afraid it just didn't work for me in this movie. In fact it's
a-scare-a-scene design came off as conventional and peddling to the
masses. I think the film would have benefited from a greater focus on
slow-building tension.

Any problems within the troubled first act are nothing in comparison to
the tension and legitimate terror rife throughout the last hour. In
fact I feel confident enough in saying that I found this film to be
even scarier than the first in the series. 

I found the music to be nothing particularly standout on it's own, but
it worked well within the context of the movie and is greatly
responsible for the tension created throughout. The performances from
Patrick Wilson and Vera Farmiga were very good and the child actors
were able to hold their own and not be just "good for kids". This film
took risks in it's presentation including the design of many of the
entities seen throughout, and I thought that this mostly remained
effective. 

So overall; I found this to be an extremely successful horror film. I
admire James Wan's ambition and I was impressed by his masterful use of
long takes. I felt that the flaws in this film were greatly outweighed
by it's achievements and I will definitely be checking it out again
soon. In my opinion this is the best horror sequel since 'Evil Dead II'
and I would definitely recommend it. Go check it out!
<|_=00=_|>
Don't take me wrong. I did not hate The conjuring 2. It is an enjoyable
film, in many terms. But I need to stress out, that this is one of the
many films that have come lately, which is absolutely all about selling
the product. The Hype. The anticipation. The goal of the producers lies
1 second after the ticket is sold, and not quite 1 second after the
film is over. The conjuring 2 takes its context out of a very
documented paranormal case which took place in England in 1977. It
narrates the story of a family of 5, single mom, and 4 children, which
are tormented by a spirit, and who eventually, get to be assisted by
experts-in-these-topics Ed and Loraine Warren.

The premise might not be original at all, but it still works. The
problem comes when such a premise is used at an attempt to pull off an
over 2 hours long feature film. 

About 30 minutes in, you will start to notice that this film is
desperate. It is desperate to make you scared and live up to its own
trailers and expectations. It might succeed on some (mostly children
under 14 who sneaked inside the theater or whose irresponsible parents
lied about their age at the ticket booth). But seasoned horror film
enthusiasts will be able to anticipate almost every single jump-scare
or even take a leap of faith and predict the outcome of a whole scene.
Why? Because everything that happens in the conjuring 2, you have
already seen or experienced in other films. This is the type of film
you can watch with a notebook and start checking those clichés as they
appear. The effort through which the writers struggled to come out with
anything barely original or "never seen" before is noticeable, and
every time they fail. Now considering this film is 110+min long, you
will get tired quickly of hearing a loud noise, the a scream, and the
some generic paranormal door slam, or furniture dash, because it
happens a lot, and it get old a lot faster.

Don't get me wrong. It is not a trash film. Production values alone are
worth the ticket. The film is beautifully filmed, in dark and ominous
colors, and the house looks stunning even in almost 95% darkness. The
music is interesting and tense, and the acting is top notch. (And the
vile nun got myself quite convinced it was Marilyn Manson) But if
you're there for the technical specs of it, you could have gone to
other place to watch Citizen Kane.

It saddens me a little, to be witness of the decadence of the horror
genre. Where most of the production money goes towards jump-scare
roller-coaster rides like this one. The recipe for box office success
was found, and they just keep making the same cake with different
glazing. You will probably notice that before the film even starts,
when you see that 4 trailers, and then you cannot make the difference
between the 4 generic horror movies you've been shown. Probably you
won't even be able to recall the names of the films. Because it doesn't
matter. 3 stars. Enjoyable overall, but terribly generic.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really surprised about what an amazing job James Wan did with
this sequel. From the very start it captures you and keeps you attached
to the screen. There is no way you can get bored. I loved the suspense
that goes increasing pretty quickly through the whole film, I could
feel my heart in my ears beating faster as the atmosphere grew creeper
and creeper. I enjoyed all the small details threw around such as the
name of the demon that was showed in the Warren's house more than once
in the background, leaving me with the question "Why that word keeps
being repeated? Nobody in that house has that name!" only at the end I
figured out what it meant. I absolutely adored the whole plot and the
plot twist within. Make up and special effects were crazy, they made
you get chills running down your spine. The soundtrack was impeccable,
it played a big part in creating the right atmosphere. Few jump scares,
very well situated, some of them very unpredictable. Didn't see a
couple of them coming, at all. I found that Vera Farmiga was absolutely
stunning with her performance in this movie. I loved the way Lorraine
had her "moment" when stepping in to save her husband condemning the
demonic entity back to hell. She was incredibly intense. Personally, I
think Patrick Wilson did a better job in this movie compared to the
first. I felt like Ed and his relationship with Lorraine was a lot more
highlighted. I highly recommend this movie. If you are a fan of the
paranormal you can't miss it.
<|_=00=_|>
The thing about The Conjuring series is that it screams classic right
at the first few scenes and just works its way up from there. While The
Conjuring is definitely being remembered as one of the most excellent
horror movies in decades, its sequel does even a better job by
providing some extra well-done scenes that are not normally seen within
the gerne. 

But how about the scare part? Is it scary? Definitely yes. Don't bother
comparing it to the first one. Just enjoy the movie and you will find
yourself holding your breath until the very last moment. 

Vera Farmiga was superb. Her presence was so strong, and powerful that
she managed to pull the viewer through all kind of emotions. Patrick
Wilson was also wonderful indeed. There are some subtle little hints
about a sequel here and there in the movie. If those two continues to
star (and also with James Wan), there is no doubt that it would be
another masterpiece.
