
Not going to give it 10 out of 10 stars, because you should always save
your 10. However, this movie is close to perfect. Very loosely based on
what might have been a true story (a war record that mentioned that
'only one father came looking for his sons' at Gallipoli after the
war). Really well acted. The war scenes conveyed some of the horror
without being gratuitous in the violence or gore. There was some shown,
but only briefly, and really just enough to set the scenes. The movie
is well- paced, well edited and doesn't drag. The lead actors
(including the young Turkish boy) were all perfectly cast. At the start
of the 100th anniversary year of the Gallipoli landings, this is a
story that was well worth telling. Great job, Russell Crowe.
<|_=00=_|>
One does not have to be Turkish or an ANZAC descendant to be interested
and touched by this film.. doesn't need to be necessarily interested in
history, either. The Water Diviner offers something for everyone who
carries a heart and soul. It offers a beautiful yet heart-wrenching
journey to all those that love the art of cinema.

If I were asked "what is this movie about?" I'd say it's an epic tale
of love and hope, a beautifully crafted story inspired by real life,
and a breath-taking masterpiece that makes you forget where you are, or
what time/day/year it is. It really is a captivating film. The story
itself may sound rather simple to some, but in my opinion it's a
spectacular mix of reality and art. Hats off to Andrew Anastasios and
Andrew Knight for their great work, the Water Diviner tells a magical
tale and reminds us what wars do to people, to families.. and to our
humanity. I cannot imagine anyone who won't be touched by this film,
touched very deep inside, that is. Whoever that ever loved somebody or
lost a beloved one sibling, parent, child, significant other, or
friend, you name it may have their heart shattered during certain
scenes of the Water Diviner.

Apart from the story, the characters too felt so "real", and the cast
performances were nothing short of what one would expect from such
brilliant names. Russell Crowe, as always, seemed to "live" the role,
not "just act" it.. and I'm so very glad that Cem Yilmaz has been in
such a special project. In an attempt to keep my review as short as
possible, and choosing to comment on acting after I see the movie more
than once, I won't go into detail of each and every name. But.. I have
to say that Ryan Corr's performance was outstanding! He and James
Fraser certainly nailed it, causing a flood of tears among the audience
during a certain scene of this duo, I could hear sniffles and see
shoulders shaking among the audience.. and I'm not exaggerating one
bit. Speaking of the scenes that certainly leave a mark on the viewer,
I'd like to say that certain scenes from the battle field were
spectacular  both technically and artistically. The scenes are so
"real" that they take you from your seat and put you on Lone Pine
battlefield , feeling scared.. helpless.. angry.. and questioning what
a war is.. and if it's even worth it. And then, there is a specific
scene which reflect how a war can make people lose their humanity and
surface the ferocity of human nature. As my favorite scene from the
epic Noah, the creation scene, reminded us all: "Brother against
brother. Nation against nation. Man against the creation. We murdered
each other. We broke the world, we did this. Man did this."

The fascinating art is not limited to battle scenes, though. Andrew
Lesnie simply works miracles, turning the movie into a feast for the
eyes from the dust storm in Australia to the breath-taking views of
Istanbul, the Water Diviner presents top-quality cinematography *thumbs
up* Before I wrap up my words on this beautiful piece of art, I'd like
to mention two of the many special scenes which may well be
extra-touching for the Turkish: i) The scene where Jemal (portrayed by
Cem Yilmaz) raises a toast to Mustafa Kemal: During the screening at
the Istanbul premiere, the audience responded to this by loud and clear
applause, and it certainly will remain an unforgettable scene for many,
many Turks. ii) Another special part of the movie that I really loved
is the old Turkish folk song Jemal sings an old song called "hey
fifteen year olds", telling the story of 15 year old boys leaving home
to join the battle of Gallipoli.

Taken together, the Water Diviner tells a tale of love mingled with
adventure, delivers a sea of emotions from grief to hope, and works the
magic of cinema, reaching the viewers' heart and mind in a way that
crosses all barriers of language, different cultures, politics, and
history.

PS: the Water Diviner was rewarded standing ovation, and I believe this
was not only because it's a great movie, it was also a heart-felt
"thank you" to the director for such an honest story which the Turkish
audience isn't used to seeing in foreign films about Turkey and its
history.

Kudos and hats off to Russell Crowe & the entire cast and crew. The
Water Diviner (Turkish title: Son Umut, i.e. 'the Last Hope') is a
spectacular movie, a must-see, a masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
The preview did not hint at the complex and gripping tale in store for
us, beyond that of a father seeking his sons' fate on the battlefields
of Gallipoli. Crowe clearly sought to make a powerful statement about
war (my wife was moved to tears during the battlefield scenes) but did
not overdo it at the expense of an engaging plot. We left the cinema
with a new insight to the Gallipoli story, that being the cost to the
Turkish people.

Crowe was very convincing in his role of the grieving, relentless
father. Fantastic support role by Yilmaz Ergodan and, although brief,
Ryan Corr was very moving.

Don't wait for this to come to DVD, it is best appreciated on the big
screen.
<|_=00=_|>
Russell Crowe has absolutely outdone himself with this film; it had me
entranced from the start. Beautifully shot, amazing casting and the
time and effort put into the making of this film really shone through.
I feel the costumers deserve an Oscar nomination for this one -
everything was spot on which for a period drama is almost impossible:)
Flawless casting and great character development leads the viewer
through the story; this film will bring out emotions and provoke
thought. I loved the perspective of the film; it is an exceptional
sensitive retelling of an historical story from both perspectives and I
think this is one of the absolute highlights of this film.

See it - you won't be disappointed!Take the tissues though...
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I am neither Australian nor Turkish. I'm from Rio, as far
away as it can get from either country - not only in terms of
geography, but also, and most importantly, in culture. I enjoyed "The
Water Diviner" enormously nonetheless (watched it in Mediterranean
Turkey on a trip), for this jewel of a movie is built upon universal
themes of common appeal to our shared humankind.

This is the first film from an English-speaking country with a huge
budget and world-famous actors that thoroughly succeeds in overcoming
jingoism and achieving a perfectly harmonious, cross- culture balance
of fairness that I have ever watched in my entire life.

The story has an amazing soul, a mesmerizing spiritual power, and a
refreshing perspective on History. As a scholar of History, I'd say it
treats a noble Turkish nation victim of absolutely unprovoked
aggression from all sides during World War I with long-overdue justice
after a 100 years, while retaining the dignity of ANZAC soldiers who
fought with great bravery and loyalty for a dubious British cause.

"The Water Diviner" is not only a cinematographic masterpiece of rare
beauty. It is a powerful statement of tolerance, a testimony of endless
hope and love.
<|_=00=_|>
If this is Russell Crowe's first film I can't wait to see what is to
come. The Water Diviner takes you an an impossible, heart warming
journey of a father looking for his sons after the tragedy of
Gallipoli. What this film does well is captures both sides of the
battle, the Turkish and the ANZAC's. It is visually stunning,
emotionally charged and does more than most movies to pry open your
empathetic side.

The cast are amazing but I think my praise would have to go to Ryan
Corr, Yilmaz Erdogen and Olga Kurylenko for three beautiful
performances. All three of them aid Crowe's performance in a highly
emotional way and create depth and love within the film.

I highly recommend giving this film a go if you appreciate a film with
a good story and good talent and I hope it receives the praise and
attention it deserves. It is definitely worth the watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I was persistent enough to get tickets to the special Village Cinemas
Screening of this great film in Australia.

The plot is very novel and interesting - focusing on the aftermath of
the Gallipoli/Anzac War and one father's (Russell Crowe) determination
to track down each one of his presumably deceased three sons - all who
served as Australian soldiers in the war - in order to bury all of them
"at home." Definitely a unique plot.

The film is essentially a mix of epic Hollywood elements and an
accurate, respectable portrayal of both the Turkish army and culture.
The latter is largely why this film succeeds - because it doesn't
judge, but rather it observes the practices of the Turkish people. This
element combined with some powerful Hollywood emotional scenes make for
a very enjoyable and extraordinary viewing experience.

In some scenes, the Australian soldiers express regret in relation to
the Gallipoli War - why were we there? what did we achieve? what did we
aim to achieve? These questions are very important because the only
outcome achieved from the invasion was the death of countless
Australian and Turkish soldiers. Ironically, this may be the main
critique by media and other reviewers - because Russell Crowe will be
wrongly hated for using film to communicate to the audience how futile
the Gallipoli War was, how thousands of lives were lost and families
destroyed all in the name of nothing.

The most intriguing and amazing aspect of the entire film is the close
friendship between the Turkish and Australian soldiers after the war -
there are even multiple comments in what appear to be in jest of this
bond - however, to say the least, it is a great exemplification of the
humaneness and genuineness of all soldiers who fought in the war. The
similarities between soldiers on both sides of each army is so
unsettling it is almost uncanny - the most obvious being the Turkish
Major Hasan's (played by a very convincing and excellent Yilmaz
Erdogan) decision to help Crowe (Mr Conner) in his search for his sons.
Hasan is a father just like Conner - he can share the pain and
heartbreak of losing children and simply not knowing their precise
fate.

The Turkish army is manifested to be a group of very respectable people
merely defending their home land and for this I praise Crowe the most -
there was no bad guy, there was no evil, there was just useless and
pointless killings and this epiphany is (unfortunately) recognised only
after the war was over. Ultimately, we were all friends, we could all
get along, but it took thousands of soldiers lives just to realise
this.

Russell Crowe was very smart as both Director and Actor in this film.
There are multiple scenes in which Crowe appears to very ignorant of
Turkish ideas, customs and behaviour. However, it is very clear that
Crowe has extensively studied Turkish culture as he could not have made
this film so meticulous otherwise.

I give the Water Diviner a solid 9.5/10 - just short of a masterpiece.
The only thing Crowe could have added is a touch more character
development and depth. Not to say that it was not sufficient, because
it most certainly was, but if he just took that extra step he may very
well have created a flawless flick - or maybe I'm just nitpicking!
<|_=00=_|>
I've read various comments about this movie being just another chance
to show Aussies at war; being something of a flag waving opportunity.
These comments have emanated mainly from Americans who haven't even see
the film. Yet it pales in comparison to many American war films, which
also have traded on jingoistic fervour for the last 80 years. Modern
war movies like Saving Private Ryan, Apocalypse Now and Full Metal
Jacket blow their Nationalistic horns very loudly. You would be
mistaken for believing that only Americans died in WW1, WWII and
Vietnam. America didn't even join WWI until it was half finished in
1917, took a year longer to join WWII and also fought alongside Kiwis &
Aussies in Vietnam. Just as Aussies fought with Canadians, Kiwis and
Brits in WWI & the Allies in WWII. The best example of a great war film
is Paths of Glory. A war film and anti-war film in the same breath.
However, it is jingoism and national identity which dies in that
extraordinary film, dark and dirty and deep in the trenches, where such
notions belong when they bring death for no good reason and for no real
cause.

The fact is, the writers and Russell give a balanced and even-handed
approach to the Turkish side of the story, and rightly points out that
the Turks lost about 7 times as many people as the Allies. Russell also
gives viewers a peek at what happened to the Ottoman Empire after the
war, when other countries were carving it up for themselves. Especially
by the British, in much the same way they acted later on, in their
appalling handling of Palestine. And the rest of the world has been
paying for it ever since. Just as the rest of the world also paid for
the creation the Weimar Republic.

I once read that the Aussie population today would be more like 55
million people instead of 22 million if we hadn't entered this foreign
war at the behest of the British, although the great immigration
schemes of the 50s, populate or perish would have probably changed and
maybe not to the good, given the many cultures new Australians
continually bring to our shores.

To me, WWI was more about big business making a buck out of political
good fortune than any true ideology except for the cannon fodder we
call soldiers, and the poor civilians in those various war-torn lands.

I also want to point out that I have lots of cool American friends (and
relatives including my lovely wife) and they are great people, but many
of them tell me how insular and inward looking many of their citizens
can be. That they are less likely to watch subtitled films or learn
about foreign lands. And yet they embrace our actors. How many American
TV shows have had Aussies (and Brits) in their casts lists. Like in The
Originals, Vampire Diaries, The Mentalist, The Secret Circle,
Moonlight, Defiance, True Blood, Hostages, United States of Tara,
nip/tuck (A Prime Minister's son at that) Fringe, Unforgettable,
Without a Trace, Spartacus and Longmire, to name a few.

This movie is awesome. I hope it is a hit, but I will be content for
those people who see it, to enjoy it and take it for what it is, an
entertainment. I think Olga is wonderful and all that actors are
wonderful although Dan Wylie appears miscast. Megan Gale is in the film
as Fatma, and does a good job although I must say I barely recognised
her. It might have been a nice touch to have hired Turkish actors in
the female leads, but I do think Olga is developing into a
multi-faceted actress. The two Turkish leads are brillian and bring a
lot to the film as a whole.

A special mention too, for young Melbourne actor, Dylan Georgiades who
plays Olga's son. Dylan is great in his first major film role and
brings much humour to the film, and steals most of his scenes. His
relationship with Russell seems very real. It is also utterly ironical
that a boy of Greek descent is playing a Turkish lad!!! For those of
you that may not realise this, Robert Mammone, who plays the Greek
officer later in the film, made his theatrical movie debut with Russell
Crowe in 1990 in The Crossing. The lead actress in that film, Danielle
Spencer is also married (although currently separated) to Russell. And
for our overseas friends who like Russell's movies then I urge you to
get these movies on DVD if you can, Proof (Hugo Weaving 1991), Romper
Stomper (his lead actress in that film is his wife in The Water Diviner
- do you spot a trend here?) The Sum of Us (where he works with Jack
Thompson (and Russell is almost Jack Thompson incarnate in this film)
You may want to check out some of Jack's early films if you can find
them, like Sunday Too Far Away, The Chant of Jimmy Blacksmith and
Caddie.

This isn't really an Aussie film, but a film for everyone, set mainly
in Turkey, and which could have happened to any family living in
Britain, USA, Canada, NZ etc but just happened to be written here. If
you wish to be entertained at the movies this year then this is one of
the best films to see. I saw The Hobbit on the same day as it was my
Birthday, and both cinemas were packed. At the end of the Water Diviner
most people clapped and quite a few women, like my wife cried. The
Hobbit was also terrific, but no one clapped at the end. :) :) :)
<|_=00=_|>
When i saw this movie out, i said "i must watch it quickly !" Because i
know there will be no movie about Gallipoli war like this for a long
time. Hollywood never tried to enter this area. Luckily we have Russell
Crowe, an Australian brave heart. It's true, you never know what
reactions may come from people who lost their families at Gallipoli for
both sides. He took hard responsibility for it and showed great
courage.

First, I want to criticize about dubbing. I really wanted to watch it
with cast's original voices. I know it's meant to be for Turkish people
who doesn't speak English but personally i didn't like it. Anyway, it's
not about the movie so skip it. Sound, music, story, background,
colors, special fx are high class and deserve to watch. The story
balance is a bit to Turkish side as if it tries to give the message to
ANZACs "why are you here even if you don't know where Turkey is on the
map". It's just my opinion though.

The story is absolutely heart touching, no doubt. At the very
beginning, the movie already touched my heart by the war scene with a
child soldier. It's very emotional moment for me because lots of child
soldiers died during the WW1. And i can imagine Australian and NZ
viewers (especially mothers) cry for Eliza's (Connor's wife) situation.
For Turkish and Australia-NZ sides, the movie deserves very special
place which can't be replaced. For the others, it is a very very good
war drama you've watched in years.
<|_=00=_|>
I managed to get to a pre-screening at Orpheum, Cremorne NSW. Very glad
I did as this was a refreshing change to the standard Aussie renditions
of the Gallipoli story. The audience burst into applause at the
conclusion of the movie me also.

Having the Turkish view of the British and ANZAC invasion makes the
film feel balanced as there are two sides to every conflict. The
horrors of the campaign are relived by the story and the performances
of the main characters are good I do feel the Turkish command got a
good rap from this script. The trauma of a father searching for his
Sons after 4 years of not knowing.

The Greeks this time getting the spray, but 100 years on I see Greece
as a firm ally but politics aside.

Crowe, I actually liked in this movie the casting of the Turkish Mother
and her young Son was good the casting of the Turkish Commander better,
The British were as obnoxious as the Australians prefer to depict them.

The film at 2 hours I never felt bored or restless and this I suspect
is that the story is grasping it has War, Love, Heartache, Compassion
and a little Hollywood to ensure appeal to wider non-Australian Turkish
audiences.

I rate this highly in the movies I have seen 2014...
