
Kingsman: The Secret Service started a beautiful new wave of James Bond
satire films. It's been done before but never quite as meta as it was
in Kingsman, actively referencing how similar the plot and archetypes
are to James Bond while still having a refreshing novelty factor and
interesting characters of its own - creating this whole new world for
the over-the-top James Bond-esque adventures to take place while the
real James Bond canon continues its serious, grounded story arc. 

While Kingsman was about setting up this elite organization and showing
off their penchant for ridiculously elaborate action sequences, Spy has
little exposition and throws you right into this hysterical world where
Jude Law is the super suave secret agent and Melissa McCarthy acts as
his eyes and ears back at headquarters. Jason Statham comes in later as
a rogue agent who is as arrogant as he is oblivious. The movie doesn't
itself seriously but it never goes into parody territory. These
characters, as overblown and ridiculous as they are, still have
relatable personalities, and you're willing to go on this crazy
adventure with them right from the start. 

Spy is very much an action comedy - whether you view it more as an
action movie or as a comedy is completely up to you. I found it
hilarious within the first minute and was laughing heartily throughout
the entire movie, but there's no denying that the action sequences are
incredibly well done. Specifically, the fight between Susan Cooper
(McCarthy) and a female assassin in a kitchen, the opening sequence of
Cooper alerting Bradley Fine (Law) where enemies are while Fine sweeps
them up in a rat maze full of baddies, and the scene with the car where
Cooper mops the floor with a handful of terrorists with little to no
effort. If you aren't laughing at the jokes, you can laugh at how
insane and over-the-top the action is - either way, it's an incredibly
fun time.

What I find most compelling about Spy is how likable each character is.
It's not just McCarthy, Law, and Statham with a bunch of stoic
supporting characters. No, even the supporting characters are hilarious
and interesting. Miranda Hart plays Cooper's goofy friend who does dumb
things with the best of intentions, Rose Byrne plays the villainous
daughter of a rich terrorist and has some excellent back-and-forth
bickering with McCarthy, and Peter Serafinowicz plays Aldo: a sleazy
Frenchman who absolutely loves women and especially their boobs. They
all have moments of hilarity; even the main antagonist played by Bobby
Cannavale who is supposed to be a classy businessman has quirky
one-liners and the funniest villain run I've seen in recent memory. Oh,
and 50 Cent is in it playing 50 Cent. Yeah, it's as crazy as it sounds.

As far as lead performances go, this is the funniest Melissa McCarthy
has ever been. This is the ideal role for her because her character has
a serious job and a serious mission juxtaposed with McCarthy's snarky
personality and usual shenanigans, making for some truly hysterical
situations. Jason Statham, however, is the real highlight here. The man
is brilliant in this role. He's a tough-guy agent that goes around
bragging about how badass he is and goes on to do the stupidest things
ever while still keeping a straight face and menacing persona -
essentially a parody of his usual roles. His rants are comedy gold
simply because it's Statham doing them. He proves here that he's not
only one of the greatest action stars working today but also one of the
funniest. The fact that he even agreed to this movie says a lot about
Statham's attitude - he's a great sport and isn't afraid to make fun of
himself, and I really hope this earns him more comedic roles in the
future.

Spy was everything I wanted it to be and more. I laughed harder at this
movie than I did at most comedies in the past decade. The production
value was fantastic, the pacing was perfect, and director Paul Feig
clearly knows how to do comedy but now can add action to his resume.
Everything about this movie works. It also allows James Bond to
continue its serious endeavors, Kingsman to handle the classy yet
gritty side of secret agents, while Spy focuses on the campy and silly
nature of the whole affair. I sincerely hope this gets a franchise
because there are too many great things happening for it not to get a
sequel. On it's own however, Spy is an absolutely brilliant, perfectly
casted satire that should not be missed by fans of action, comedy, or
fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Much as people want to watch their sci-fi dumbed down in the form of
Michael Bay's Transformers it seems that the modern cinema going
audience, at least in America anyhow, are content with Paul Feig's
fecal offerings. I'm astonished to see this movie running at 7.2/10 at
the time I'm typing this.

I can only assume that movie is made for twenty and thirty somethings
who have failed to grow up, are generally sheltered from life and are
intellectually limited. I thought Bridesmaids was bad enough. By it
seems that Feig has gone full out on Seth MacFarlane's vulgarity style,
but with even less subtlety than MacFarlane himself.

Watching this you think you're in for an entertaining James Bond spoof.
Sure enough, the first five minutes sets that up nicely. It what
follows is a disgrace. In short, this has the potential to be
entertaining. But it is ruined by a constant barrage of vulgarity. The
thing is that unlike movies of the past that have had vulgar elements
in them (say, Blazing Saddles) the vulgarity is delivered without comic
timing and without any level of subtlety. Quite simply we see things
like (the normally wonderful) Alison Janney saying the F word
constantly and then hear her utter words like "thunderc***" and we're
told it's funny, because, hey, it's a swear word! This goes on
throughout the picture, from the initial scene with Statham to a plane
exchange between McCarthy and Rose Byrne, where the F word is literally
uttered in every possible sentence. I'm not a prude, I swear like a
trooper and potty humour is funny to me most of the time. But when it
gets to the gratuitous and unsubtle extent to which the film presents
it I feel that my intelligence is being insulted.

Then there are, it seems, the other requisite elements to American
comedies these days, namely fart, poo, vomit and sex jokes. The whole
scene with the faked, erect penis, which we needed to see not just
once, but at least five times for it to be clear to us that we are
meant to laugh, just made my cringe like I have never cringed before.
Then you have vermin crapping on a chocolate cake.....because har har
har, isn't it funny to see a background character eat a fecal laden
treat! When not being vulgar, the picture goes to every length to
denigrate the appearance of McCarthy and Miranda Hart, with routine
jokes about how they aren't that attractive or how McCarthy's weight is
a reason for her character's undesirable place on the social and
professional ladder. To think that Feig has the audacity to claim he
makes these films to support women and that anyone who disagrees is a
sexist. Unreal.

If you could get rid of the above then there is the bones of a half
decent comedy. There are still a few funny scenes, most of which don't
rely on the shock and vulgarity factor. But it seems that Feig can't
help himself and just can't take a measured approach. I shudder to
think what he will do to a beloved property like Ghostbusters. Slimer
with a rubber dick and poo jokes no doubt. Well, based on his offerings
so far I won't be going to see it. But the real tragedy here is the
amount of cinema-goers who now seem to think this one brain cell trite
is fine entertainment. It is ultimately not the likes of Feig or
Michael Bay who are the death of intelligent, creative movies. It's the
morons who line up to lap it up...and frankly they should be ashamed.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watched the first half of this movie on recommendation.

It is just dreadful, it's a long string of expletives, unfunny
situations and terrible acting. You know when the movies has lost it
when the dialogue is just insults, expletives and nothing else.

I would certainly not recommend this title to anyone and putting it in
the comedy genre is doubtful to say the least. There is very little
storyline, basically a copy of true lies, which was a far better movie
and it fails on all scores.

The level of this movie is best summarised by one of the scenes showing
pictures of an erect penis from a recovered camera. Hilarious for a
sniggering teen possibly.
<|_=00=_|>
My daughter told me this was a funny film, so I watched it. I will
never trust a teenager again. I forgot that teenagers will laugh at a
fake willy joke every time, and this film does the same. Showing a male
member is faintly amusing the first time, but by the fifth time it's
just boring. I made myself sit through the last hour, because I had
hoped it might improve. It doesn't. The first ten minutes are by far
the best. It drops off a cliff after that. Puerile, profane, badly
acted, ham-fisted and just really unfunny. The dialogue is appalling,
the action sequences are ludicrous and the obsessive swearing just gets
old very early on. Don't watch this if you have a mental age older than
six. Adam Sandler would be ashamed of this movie. Avoid........... no,
seriously just don't watch this tripe.
<|_=00=_|>
Spy is an action comedy starring the versatile and hilarious actress
Melissa McCarthy. This movie is an American version of a James Bond
movie, with added humorÂ—but not in the manner of movies like Johnny
English (2003) or Mordecai (2015). It's not a parody. The movie has a
rather serious and complex plot complete with red herrings and twists.
I wouldn't say it's completely realistic, but it's just enough to make
it very funny without being too outlandish. It reminds me of one of my
all time favorite action comedies "True Lies" (1994), where in both
films unlikely people are thrust into CIA missions. Susan Cooper
(McCartney) is a CIA agent who works as a guide for Bradley Fine (Jude
Law). While Fine is doing field work, he is equipped with cameras.
Cooper watches these cameras and alerts Fine of oncoming danger. During
a mission to stop the transferring of a nuclear bomb, the cameras begin
to malfunction, Cooper's images become unclear, and Fine is shot. The
CIA chooses to put Cooper on the field to continue Fine's mission.
Cooper has been at her desk her entire career, however Cooper is
considered a CIA agent and therefore is considered qualified to take on
the mission, although she is seemingly far from fit for the job in many
ways. Being that Cooper has always worked at a desk, she is completely
unknown to the enemies and can thus work well undercover. Having worked
with Fine all these years, and having deeper feelings for Fine than
even he knew, Cooper feels it is her duty to avenge Fine's death. She
sets off to Europe jumping from one crazy circumstance to another. She
quickly become more than meets the eye as her quick wit and even
physical abilities are unleashed. This is a great comedy filled with
witty banter, British satire, slapstick comedy and even some raunchy
humor. Stay for the creditsÂ—even they're funny.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this film. I didn't have high hopes when I chose it on Netflix
but laughed more than I have done for ages. It's not Citizen Kane, OK,
but it has more laughs. It is sweary, and a bit crude but it all works.
Statham is superb, sending himself up and I even liked Jude Law.
Miranda Hart does her usual thing, but again it works. My partner told
me to say how nice it was to see an older, none thin women, in a
leading role!
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this for some stress-relief. Yes, it is very vulgar quite
often. But I adore Miranda Hart, Jude Law is some suave damn eye-candy,
Melissa is funny as always and it was nice seeing her take on an action
role. Stratham must have needed something as light relief from his
usual British crime seriousness; he does idiot well, it turns out. And
Rose Byrne was an adorable, lethal, spoilt brat. 

Just some fun. Maybe I could have done without male porn bits. That
'thing', I don't know if it was real but it was repulsive. Eww.
<|_=00=_|>
Overall: This movie is great and I would recommend it to anyone who's
up for a laugh.

Good: It is consistently funny with cool and interesting heroes. The
music is great and keeps in touch with the tone the movie attempts to
set. All the cast do fantastic jobs acting wise and you seriously
believe their character. Melissa McCarthy's rants are hysterically
funny as is her unbelievable 'spy mode'! The cinematography is great
and works very well. It is a well directed, edited, composed and acted
movie. The actual action scenes â€‹were very well choreographed to feel
bad ass. Jason Statham is a personal favourite character and his
insane, egotistical attitude contrasts to Melissa's pre-spy mode.
Miranda Hart and Jude Law do good with there performances though Jude
feels like more of a plot device. Peter Serafinowicz did a good job of
acting within acting; his mini-twist at the end was surprising and also
funny.

Bad: The villains were not that interesting or unique or even special.
They just shifted the story along. Jude Law was just a plot device over
an actual character. The twist at the end felt forced and just wasn't
that interesting. The slow motion action parts were just annoying and
took away from the pace. A much more fast paced action with little
breaks would fit better.

Best Part: Any Melissa McCarty rant

MVP: Jason Statham as Ford.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I decided to watch this movie because of Jason Statham and I saw the
ratings were pretty good too.

As I began to watch it, it was clear that its suppose to be a spy movie
parody. The beginning was actually not bad so my expectations were that
it should be at list somewhat entertaining, but the next 95% of the
movie proved me wrong...

The plot is extremely generic and without any creative expression at
all. Most of the scenes are boring at best and really cringy and
obnoxious, the jokes are either sexual or plain cursing and insults but
not in a funny way at all. Only a couple of scenes gave me a degree of
entertainment (when Rick Ford brags about himself and when the security
guy Anthony gets shot, maybe something else) all of the rest was making
it difficult to watch... The characters were boring as well. The action
is not top notch but its alright, but it doesn't even come close to
making up for the rest. The production itself is good but it would be a
crime if it wasn't with a 65 million budget.

In conclusion: There was potential to this movie but they flushed it in
the sewer where the level of the movie is as well... I recommend NOT TO
WATCH this movie and not to waste time on it...
<|_=00=_|>
This is probably not the worst film ever made, but it's not far off.

Lets start with the pro's.

- The acting is OK - It has the polish of a Hollywood film

Now for the cons.

- The script

It's seriously unfunny. Kind of thing if you are nine or under then you
might like. Anyone who is in double figures should definitely give this
a miss. A big miss!

If you are a fan of Miranda Heart then this film may make you smile.
Me, I find her offensively unfunny. Her involvement alone makes this
film arguably one of the worst ever.

The one point that really mad me raise an eyebrow was when the over the
top cockney Jason Stathem uses the term "Twot". The writers and
continuity on this film are that lazy they couldn't even pick up that
Englishman say, "Twat", not "Twot".

Very much one of the worst pieces of cinema I have seen in years and
years.
