
Roland Emmerich's biggest mistake was calling the movie "Stonewall" and
marketing it as if it were the actual story of the rebellion. It gave
people the wrong expectation. It's not a movie about Stonewall. It's a
movie about a Midwestern gay man whose story takes place on Christopher
street at the time of the riots. It's also in part the story of the
first person he meets in New York, played by Jonny Beauchamp, who
steals the movie. It's basically a very oddball romance and coming-out
story. People wanted an accurate historical epic about the importance
of the riots, and the movie isn't that and was never meant to be. 

For what it really is, it's a very good movie. Like most "historical"
movies there are inaccuracies. The worst distortion is giving Danny the
"first brick." That's upset a lot of people, but in the dramatic
structure of the movie it's as much about Danny's becoming himself--a
gay man throwing away his shame--as it is about the situation he finds
himself in. The police are depicted as "bad" in the black-and-white
morality of an old-fashioned hero-versus-villain Saturday morning
serial. But beyond those inaccuracies and the impossibility of
recreating Christopher Street as it was (which seems to be especially
upsetting to some New York viewers), the movie is as faithful to its
surrounding event as any Shakespeare history play to its, including
sympathetic depictions of a very diverse neighborhood of LGBT types. 

As a long-time gay activist, I liked the movie a great deal. It feels
real as I remember things to have been 46 years ago. I felt a genuine
emotional rush during and after the riot. The movie ends with typical
historical clean-ups, telling us what became of the real people, like
Marsha P Johnson and others who appear in the movie, and mentioning the
additional nights of rioting and how they went on to be regarded in
LGBT history. 

For me the saddest thing about this film is the divisions it's exposed
among various components of the LGBT community. This history belongs to
all of us, black, brown, white, gay, lesbian, transgender, drag queen,
troll, twink, and so on; if we can't honor it in all of our variations,
no one else will either. Go to see it as a good story well told, not as
a factual documentary. I write this knowing some of you won't be able
to, some of you won't want to, and some of you won't believe me. I wish
there were something I could do about that, but there isn't.
<|_=00=_|>
Having read so many hostile reviews about this film I expected it to be
horrible and historically inaccurate. One reviewer asked "Where was
Marilyn P. Johnson?!?" So I expected the worst. But the movie started
and BAM! There was Marilyn P. Johnson, Big as you please. So I quickly
saw that some negative reviews are by people who didn't see the movie.
I believe that making a handsome white guy the main character of the
film is what is making some people angry. The film is full of black,
transgender and lesbian characters, except for the Mafia & Police, who
were all white then and they are all white in the film. Having read
some good books on Stonewall, I'd have to say the film depicts the
Stonewall riots in a very accurate way. Practically none of the
accusations I have read in hostile reviews are justified. I hope
everyone sees this movie. There is one scene in which one main
character (who is not white or cisgender) pours out her heart because
nobody wants her. It is a very powerful scene which everyone needs to
see.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I am gay. I was mercilessly bullied as a child back in the
late 70's early 80s. It's nothing new.

I have read books, articles, and seen documentaries on the Stonewall
riots......having said that, the LGBT community's lynch campaign
regarding the film Stonewall has once again proved that as a group we
are so self indulgent and petty, so mired in our own little dramas that
we cannot see the big picture.

We should have lined up by the thousands to see this film (so starved
we are about representation of our history, especially since
integration) good or bad, accurate as we would want it to be or not.
Instead what we have done is gleefully, shrilly and self-righteously
and most of all in the most ignorant of ways, we have torpedoed it.
What we have also done is send Hollywood a message that we as a group
do not want to see movies about our history because we are so focused
on being divisive as a group, and so intent into looking out for our
own self as opposed to our collective well being.

We always have been selfish, petty, vain, superficial...in the 70s
right after Stonewall, the athletic muscle boys scoffed and ridiculed
the political queens because they were too busy being liberated and
getting laid.

Black America stands together and supports each other....Tyler Perry
can crank out countless drivel with his Medea movies and that
demographic will flock. Any instance of police brutality towards an
African American and that community ,rightly so, will make their voices
heard.

For us that is not the case. Countless gay bashings and no one ever
riots in the streets.

Two films have been made about the single most important event in our
history. One in the 1990's and this last one. And what is our reaction?
To squash any chance for some kid in the mid west to see it and have a
spark of interest set off to get him or her and everything in between
to go read up on the actual event.

POSSIBLE SPOILER: The film is not bad, it's not great, the script is a
little weak, but everyone is represented. Martha P. has her moment in
the limelight. A Hispanic character very much resembling Sylvia Rivera
comes very close to throwing that first brick. And the lesbian dragged
out kicking and screaming that howls anguishedly "Why are you just
standing there, why doesn't anyone help me?!" is featured prominently.

So there's a white kid from the Midwest that provides the narrative for
the story.

Big deal. One thing for sure, this could have been a chance to provide
awareness of this event, and like self righteous idiots we have screwed
this one up. You can be sure now that Hollywood will steer clear of
anything dealing with LGBT issues. Good luck making that movie on
whatever fluid sexuality topic now. We've killed it. A round of
applause.
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent overview of what happened in NYC's Greenwich Village in 1969
when the Gay Rights Movement was given a spark thanks to Stonewall Inn
patrons who refused to be abused by the oppressive thug cops one more
time.

Jeremy Irvine is superb as the kid from Indiana, who's thrown out of
his middle-class home for being gay. He learns what he needs to learn
in order to survive on the streets in Manhattan. He connects with a
group of drag queens and hustlers who are usually without money, and he
also gets a view of the beginnings of the Gay Pride movement thanks to
Jonathan Rhys Meyers, terrific as Trevor the Mattichine Society
activist.

The movie hasn't opened and far too many comments here are from people
who obviously haven't seen the film, which is a crime against art. I
have seen the movie, and it works well on many levels, including as an
expose of corrupt cops, an examination of the Mafia's control of gay
bars, and the nature of homophobia and the closet in America.

People who are whining that the movie ignores this group or that group
have no idea what's in the outstanding film, a work of complexity that
dares to reveal the truth about brutish law enforcement and how the
longing for love will conquer all manner of oppressive forces.

See "Stonewall" and judge for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched Stonewall last night and did not find it to be the horrible
film I expected. It was not a great film either, a solid 6 out of ten.
It was visually interesting, the dialog was a bit awkward and a little
boring but IMO it accurately portrayed the feeling of 1969/70. Most of
the characters were poor LGBT runaways living on the streets who were
POC, transgender, dykes/lesbians and a variety of ethnicities. All the
cops were white, mostly portrayed as assholes. Was the movie flawed?
Absolutely. Perhaps the biggest flaw was calling the film Stonewall.
Still I think it is worth seeing. If you can get past expectations of
it being a historically correct documentary and watch it as a coming of
age/out story about a young man from the country running to the city
(which many did), at the end you can get a real reminder why we
celebrate LGBT Pride today.
<|_=00=_|>
In spite of the protests. In spite of the bad reviews. I saw the movie.
I went to see it on its own merits. To me, history depends on who wrote
it. And, accuracy is never a top priority. I can't think of any movie
that is based on real events or real people that was completely
accurate. For instance, the recent film "Iron Lady". I doubt it had
scenes where Thatcher dismantled social services, and ripped cartons of
milk out of school kids hands.

Hell, history in life is never fully accurate. Many times I have had
conflicts with people because they didn't remember things that happened
like I did. Chief among their excuses are, "I don't remember. I don't
know what you're talking about." 

But, back to "Stonewall". It was a better film, and more accurate than
the movie "Stonewall" of 1995. Perhaps it's because this year's film
had more than $12.50 as a budget.

Suspiciously, both films center on a Latino drag queen, and a white boy
just off the bus.

Which leads to my problem with this years "Stonewall". The script. When
they could have created an interesting story to follow, they went with
plot points that have come from other films. Even "Brokeback Mountain".
Toward the end of the film, I expected Danny to say to his high school
chum, "I wish I knew how to quit you." Actually, the whole end of the
film went off the rails in my opinion. There was a point where a
character seemed to look into a crystal ball to say that everything had
changed, only one day after the riots. But, before that was hit or
miss. It was an hour into it that I realized that the movie should have
centered more on the relationship between Danny and Ray. Maybe it did,
and I wasn't paying attention.

I hope that the film makes people learn more about the riots, and how
gay life was. What happened before, and what happened after. What they
are apt to learn is that history is rarely accurate. That those who
tell of it sometimes fudge the facts, and contradict others.

Also, to learn from it so that history is not repeated.
<|_=00=_|>
Roland Emmerich will always be known for his work in big budget films. 
The director has such iconic titles as Independence Day, Stargate and 
The Day After Tomorrow on his resume and usually his name on a film 
poster means 'big' and 'loud'. But that doesn't mean a director can't 
stretch its legs every once and a while and that is exactly what 
Emmerich has done with Stonewall his new film that chronicles actual 
events in 1969 New York.

Stonewall follows the experience of Danny Winters (Jeremy Irvine) who 
is forced out of his small mid-American town after he is discovered to 
be a homosexual. This is 1969. Homosexuals in America were not allowed 
to hold government jobs. They were not allowed to congregate. They were 
not allowed alcohol. Danny's unaccepting parents and his lack of 
understanding from his peers lead force him to travel to New York City 
where he finds refuge in Greenwich Village with other homeless 
homosexual, lesbian and transgender individuals in what is known as the 
Stonewall Inn.

The area to which the Inn is located is anything but safe. Crime, drugs 
and the mafia have an ever presence in the community and the residents 
are continually harassed by the over anxious and homophobic police. The 
police continually raid the bars to which the group congregate until 
one such day when the community rises up to their oppressor and fight 
back in what is considered a landmark of the LGBT movement. Danny and 
his new found friends are at the heart of the rebellion and it is their 
'we're not gonna take it anymore' attitude that leads to violence and a 
dramatic shift in the movement.

Emmerich has never been known for his strong characters and intelligent 
dialogue. But he outdoes himself here with stupid verbal exchanges from 
his characters that is so bad you would think it was a foreign 
non-English speaking director who doesn't have a grasp of the English 
language allowing such dead dialogue.

The incomprehensible dialogue only makes for worse acting among the 
cast. Not a single character in the film is likable or relatable. With 
the exception of Danny they come across as thugs, thieves and drug 
addicts. Hard to lean to their side of the conflict when its routine 
for them to steal from local stores and throw bricks through storefront 
windows for trivial fashion accessories. Still, even if we were to 
overlook their flaws the acting is trite and hollow with not a single 
character rising above the script pages.

Only recognizable face Ron Perlman is able to escape without wrath, but 
he has such little work to do in the film that it is clear he was only 
added to the feature to at least have one familiar name on the marquee.

The filmmakers likely believed that the final reel of their film would 
bring an audience to its feet. To have people inspired and applauding 
in the victory the legacy of the real life event. Instead, it brought 
snores. It brought the painful realization that you just spent 129 
minutes watching something that you hoped would give you better insight 
into a piece of our history but instead was a painful experience where 
the checking of our wrists for the latest time was our utmost 
importance as we counted down the minutes.

This is easily Emmerich's biggest pratfall. Not only is it his worst 
film of his filmography but it is also a front runner for the worst 
film of the year.

Side note: There were protesters outside the cinema to where Stonewall 
had its screening protesting the inaccurate portrayal of the events. 
The protesters likely had not seen the film. If they had they would 
know that the inaccuracies are the least of the films concerns.


<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Dramatized versions of real life
events are always a bit tricky, and hindsight often proves it's best
left to the documentary format. However, sometimes, a dramatized
version helps us more easily relate to, and empathize with, those who
were involved. That seems to be the approach taken by director Roland
Emmerich in his re-telling of events so important to him and the LGBT
movement  the Stonewall Riots of 1969.

The Stonewall Riots of June 1969 are often cited as the beginning of
the Gay Liberation movement. Of course, there had been many previous
clashes between gays and police, as discrimination was so extreme that
these folks were labeled as mentally ill, and it was actually unlawful
for gays to be hired for many jobs. On the streets of many big cities
there existed a melting pot of minorities and the LGBT community. Many
were young and homeless, and did whatever necessary to survive. So how
best to tell this story? Director Emmerich and writer Jon Robin Baitz
put blonde, white, Midwestern, pretty boy Danny (Jeremy Irvine, War
Horse) front and center. How insulting to those involved.

To his credit, Emmerich does cast actors of various races to many
roles, and he does seem to treat this as a sincere tribute or homage to
those street kids who finally pushed back. Unfortunately, it's these
characters that seem to be the drag on the story. Despite such names as
Queen Cong, Little Orphan Annie, Quiet Paul, and the inclusion of real
life activists as Marsha P Johnson (Otoja Abit), Bob Kohler (Patrick
Garrow)  and other key players like Ed Murphy (Ron Perlman) and Deputy
Seymour Pine (Matt Craven)  the film comes off more like a staged
musical sans music. The closest thing to a real character is Ray,
played with aplomb by Jonny Beauchamp ("Penny Dreadful").

Having the Columbia University-bound pretty white boy as the focus
might make it easier for mainstream audiences to connect, but it skims
over the real struggles going on at the time. We see Danny at home with
his worried mother, observant little sister (Joey King), and macho
football coach/father (David Gubitt). Everyone is uncomfortable over
what is not being said, and the breaking point occurs when a tryst with
the star quarterback becomes public knowledge. Just like that, Danny is
booted from home (Indiana, not Kansas) and lands on the streets of New
York. The comparisons to Dorothy (gay icon Judy Garland) and the Land
of Oz are obvious, and repeated numerous times for those a bit slow on
the take.

Christopher Street and the Stonewall Inn are the main settings. The mob
involvement is noted, as is the desperation of the community, the use
of flop houses, and the long-standing "quiet" demonstrations. Even the
practice of gays trying to "fit in" to society  to prove they belong 
by wearing suits and acting "normal" is addressed. The riots are
reduced to a single evening in the movie, and of course, the pretty
white boy gets to toss the first brick. As a 'roots of the movement'
film, it's hard to believe this film won't create more anger and
frustration than thanks and awareness. Fortunately, there are many
exceptional books and yes, documentaries that provide a better
perspective on the events that occurred more than 45 years ago. We do
see the first Gay Liberation Parade held the following year in honor of
the riots  a tradition that continues today. The closing credit
sequence catches us up on the key activists, and even provides a
startling statistic: 40% of today's homeless youth are LGBT.
<|_=00=_|>
The film is derivative, as well as whitewashed. 

There are so many factual goofs, when it comes to clothes, music, etc.
The filmmaker needed to spend some time doing research and fact
checking. 

I also find fault with the film centering around a kid from Kansas. The
uprising was started by Puerto Rican and African American drag queens,
and there is strong support that the first police resistance was by a
lesbian, not some white football player from the mid-west.

I suggest watching the British 1997 film, which really feels so much
more authentic.
<|_=00=_|>
Gay themed films are n abundance right now and (lesbian couples,
transgender stories, more gay characters in many films) so it seems
only natural that yet another film be made about the beginning of gay
rights in the US. STONEWALL does that and despite the emphasis on
political corruption attempting to steal the thunder from the brave
gays who initiated the change to Gay Pride it works for the most part.

Many viewers will avoid the film because of the depiction of gays as
being homeless, feminine street hustlers  too much so that it becomes
a distraction form the other aspects of the story  but at least the
message and the dates and the history are there. The plot revolves
around the 1969 Stonewall Riots, the violent clash that kicked off the
gay rights movement in New York City. The drama centers on Danny
Winters (Jeremy Irvine), who flees to New York after an aborted coming
out with Joe (Karl Glusman) and being ousted by his homophobic father
(David Cubitt), leaving behind his sister Phoebe (Joey King). He finds
his way to the Stonewall Inn, where he meets Trevor (Jonathan Rhys
Meyers) before catching the eye of Ed Murphy (Ron Perlman), manager of
the Stonewall who colludes with corrupt police and exploits homeless
youth. Danny becomes close to a group of Nellie hustlers  especially
Ray (Jonny Beauchamp)  and it is his association with this gay element
that he eventually joins and fights for gay rights.

The cast is strong, the script by Jon Robin Baitz is less than
impressive, but director Roland Emmerich manages to make the blend of
history and human tragedy credible. Not a great movie, but the
intentions are worthy.
