
Seriously, I can't believe how upset people are with this movie; I
couldn't even breathe anymore as I walked out of the theater after
laughing a lot! Yeah the jokes are stupid, the acting is over-the-top,
the story isn't that brilliant and there isn't any deep sh*t plot twist
but really, who watches comedy and expect something that will make them
contemplate about life??? In terms of entertainment, this movie
certainly delivers... Unless of course you're a frigging hipster who
can't appreciate any movie that doesn't f*ck your brains out. Come on,
Birdman for instance received a lot of good feedback but it's not that
funny -- it's just deep. And artsy. It seems the trend these days; if a
movie's storyline is plain enough for the layman to understand, these
know-it-all guys will say it's horrible, waste of time, blah blah...

There's a lot of movies far worse than this and I don't understand all
the hate on this one; probably because it stars Johnny Depp (who was
amazing as always, by the way) and they just expect too much. Whatever!
Loosen up, guys!
<|_=00=_|>
Jock's response for most of the time is "I don't know, sir". Just like
my answer to a question, whether the film will be good based on
watching the trailer. Well, it turns out once again that I should trust
Johnny Depp and expect a good film because that is how Mortdecai turned
out.

Mortdecai revolves around a rogue art dealer Lord Charlie Mortdecai,
struggling to keep his fortune and estate. While being away from his
wife he decides to grow a moustache, which becomes an annoying
characteristic to everyone in his presence. Meanwhile a woman working
on a restoration of a Goya painting is killed and Charlie as an art
expert is called for help to retrieve the painting. Many different and
strange parties are after this painting, because it is believed it
contains a way to find lost Nazi golden treasure.

Even though I have given a plot summary there is not much plot in the
film, but don't be alarmed. If you recall the Peter Sellers starring
The Pink Panther comedies then you might remember that those films also
had minimum plot. The basic premise was there only to serve as a
creator of situation, a mere thread upon which the scenes could be
hanged. The film struggles at first to find its style of humor, but it
succeeding at bringing back the aesthetic and style of the Pink Panther
films which results in a very pleasant enjoyable comedy. That is all I
wanted from this film.

The second part of the film, when it shifts into USA is just laugh out
loud funny from start to finish. The film suffers from predictability
though. I figured the location of the painting before the characters
did. It is indirectly implied so that made it easier. Another problem
is this film has an R rating but it doesn't really need one. Yes, there
are two utterances of the F-word but otherwise it is a film suitable
for the whole family (Considering that your kids are teenagers now in
order for them to get all the jokes). There is nothing explicit so the
best decision in order to get more money at the box office would be to
obtain the PG-13 rating since lot of Depp's fans are teenagers as well,
now unable to see the film.

I have always enjoyed the master/servant dynamic in films ant TV
series. It usually present in British culture. The best example would
be Blackadder where this master/servant relationship is utterly genius.
So it goes to say that best character is not the titular character but
his servant Jock. He steals every scene he is in and Bettany and Depp
have amazing chemistry and play off each other quite nicely. Paltrow
and Depp make a nice duo as well despite not sharing much time
together. For example the gag reflex during kissing caused by the
moustache is a brilliant joke.

Geoff Zanelli, a frequent Koepp's collaborator never disappoints but I
feel like he can't ever top Secret Window score which is simply
magnificent. The end credits song simply titled Johanna, which is a
result of a collaboration of Zanelli, Mark Ronson and Miles Kane is a
sweet song. A fitting end to cap this film. I have ended up listening
it on repeat. It is a song made in a way in which they are not made
anymore. An old fashioned tune that soothes my ears.

To point out something interesting I noticed Charlie is not much of the
hero of the story in the sense that he is not controlling what is
happening around him. He is manipulated by almost everyone Â– his wife,
his servant, Goldblum's art dealer, the MI5. It is very interesting to
have a main character, who is absolutely in no control of his destiny.

Mortdecai is a great enjoyable comedy for everyone who simply wants to
have fun, relax and have a good time. Despite its predictability it
delivers a great enjoyment, it delivers a comedy like which is not
being made anymore.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite beginning in a boring way (I didn't laugh for more or less the
first ten minutes), when you realize what is the film about, it
improves a lot. From this point to the end, you laugh many times. Plot
is a bit absurd, but it is what you expect about it, as it is a comedy,
a parody of another films. Johnny Depp plays a role which is very
similar to what we've seen before in another films, but that doesn't
impede you to laugh with him. I would like to highlight the role Paul
Bettany plays. He is the center of most of the funny situations of the
film, with some quotes you will repeat even after the end of the film.
As a summary, I have to say that it's not an incredible film, but
you'll have a fantastic time in the cinema if you chooses it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie actually made me register with IMDb to publish my
displeasure. I've read the reviews here and typically they're from art
house aficionados who sooooo want everything to have meaning. News
flash, sometimes a movie is just a movie and sometimes humour is
unsophisticated. Get over it.

Johnny Depp seems to be a target for these reviewers at the moment. I
found his performance/homage to Terry Thomas "rather good". The various
cameos and supporting performances were also "rather good" The film is
soaked in British humour and I can see how some from the "colonies"
just don't get it but for people to give this 1 or 2 out of 10 is
beyond belief.
<|_=00=_|>
Mortdecai is one of those films that you'll love it or hate it. I
really was entertained by it, the movie itself is a fun ride, it never
tries to be anything more. Johnny Depp's funny performance is a cross
between Cary Grant and Peter Sellers, like he does with the Pirate
films, he milks it for all it's worth. Unlike his last two films, this
was entertaining.

The movie is comedic mystery, it has some share of suspense, but it
never wavers from that it his still a comedy. Paul Bettany is also
quite good has Mortdecai man servant. I clearly see they are both
having fun, there almost like a comedy team. All the other supporting
cast like Gwyneth Paltrow and Ewan McGregor. Don't go in this expecting
much, just a fun time.
<|_=00=_|>
I was moved to write my first ever IMDb review because of the amount of
derision heaped on this film by mainly American reviewers. This
mountain of vitriol almost stopped me from going to see the film; how
glad I am that I stuck to my decision to see it! Johnny Depp, for me,
is always good value, and is an actor who seems to be unafraid of
challenging not only himself but we, the audience, too. His portrayal
of Charlie Mortdecai was based not so much on Ralph Fiennes' M.Gustave,
but more on characters from The Fast Show and various Upper Class Twits
from the classic Monty Python sketch. Indeed, as a massive fan of The
Fast Show (he appeared in the final episode) I'm fairly sure that Mr
Depp had some influence in securing the comic genius of Paul Whitehouse
to play Spinoza. After reading the host of bad reviews I entered the
cinema with some trepidation, but was rewarded with a well-written,
smoothly-directed, fast-paced concoction which ticked plenty of boxes
for me; I did start to wonder if I was watching the same film that some
other reviewers watched. Perhaps the humour was just "too English" for
some of our friends in the "far colonies"! Please don't be put off by
the large number of bad reviews; Mortdecai was well worth the price of
entry!
<|_=00=_|>
I just got back from seeing this and it's honestly one of the worst
movies I've ever seen. I knew it wasn't going to be brilliant, but I
like Johnny Depp and thought it would be at least a fun, bumbling
action-comedy, a genre that is a 'guilty pleasure' of mine. It's hard
to decide where to start when pointing out the flaws of a dreadful
movie like this, but I'll first start by saying that the writing is
horrendous. The lazy writers decided to use the same jokes not once,
not twice, but several times because they can't think of anything
better to write! The line 'show me your balls' is used at least 3-5
times and while it was sort of funny the first time, it starts to get
INCREDIBLY tedious and repetitive after that. The same goes with
Mortdecai's wife gagging when they try to kiss. That happens 3-5 times
as well and is even the final shot of the movie as well! The rest of
the humor is mostly slapstick-based, which would have been fine if it
wasn't so painfully obvious what was coming. For example, in one scene
Mortdecai is sword fighting a man and he ends up on the ground with a
large box suspended from a wire up above. The man takes the sword and
cuts the rope and the box almost 'traps' Mortdecai. And in one
ridiculous scene when the writers didn't know how to end it, people
attending a party with food poisoned by the villain, despite being in
plain view of the villain poisoning the food, eat it and vomit
profusely, including onto a moving car's windshield. The remaining
jokes are painfully dumb as well and are basically showcases of the
complete stupidity of Mortdecai's character. For example, he walks into
a hotel in Los Angeles and sees people in bikinis and claims that he
accidentally went to the set of a porno. Then he checks in at the
reception desk and gets handed a room key and claims that the U.S. is
in financial troubles because anyone who checks in at a hotel receives
a credit card like he supposedly just did. The story is really dull and
never really comes together, and even worse, the so-called twist can be
guessed miles away. Overall, "Mortdecai" is an embarrassingly bad
comedy that tries to be funny, but the horrible quality of the movie is
the real joke. One of the worst movies I've ever seen!
<|_=00=_|>
Adapted from the book anthology by the same name written by Kyril
Bonfiglioli, 'Mortdecai' is silly fun! Though never hilarious, this
recent box-office disappoint isn't entirely bad either. 

'Mortdecai' Synopsis: Juggling angry Russians, the British Mi5, and an
international terrorist, debonair art dealer and part time rogue
Charlie Mortdecai races to recover a stolen painting rumored to contain
a code that leads to lost Nazi gold.

'Mortdecai' needed more wit & humor, no doubt. But what is served in
this action-comedy, isn't unbearable. Some of it actually works, as the
bumbling protagonist gets into a series of wacky moments. Even the
supporting characters are fairly appealing. But, in totality, I wanted
to laugh more. 

Eric Aronson's Screenplay is continuously silly & on-track, but not
foolproof. David Koepp's Direction is impressive. So is the
Cinematography. The Editing, however, lacks sharpness. Costume Design &
Action-Sequences, are fair.

Performance-Wise: Johnny Depp as Mortdecai, is in good goofy mode. The
versatile actor seems to be enjoying himself, although his talent is
much above a film such as this. Ewan McGregor is first-rate. Gwyneth
Paltrow looks aged & tired here. Paul Bettany has his moments. Olivia
Munn is seductive. Jeff Goldblum appears in a cameo.

On the whole, 'Mortdecai' won't make you fall of your seat with
laughter, nor will it want you to pull your hair in anger. Its strictly
a one-time watch.
<|_=00=_|>
After a long time I saw a comedy movie in which I actually laughed. I
fail to understand the issue some of the people have with this film.
Probably because these are the sort of people who enjoy spoofs and
think only those films are comedy.

The movie was hilarious. The casting brilliant. The acting spot on. Not
every movies story line needs to be the great American comedy. But this
does pretty well. Some comedies can linger on the scenes making it
boring. But the timing in this film was great and it had me laughing
throughout.

Not a particularly great fan of Jhonny Depps outside the pirates of the
Caribbean franchise. So when I saw how he played Mortdecai's character,
I enjoyed it to no end.
<|_=00=_|>
"Mortdecai" was hilarious from start to finish. Critics have been a bit
too harsh with this one. Full of cleverly-written lines, this movie is
one I will continue to watch time and time again. Johnny Depp plays the
Mr. Bean-type role magnificently, and the chemistry between he and
Paltrow was great as well. His "sympathetic gag reflex" had be laughing
throughout the entire movie. Johnny Depp receives quite a bit of
unnecessary hate when it comes to his movie. I for one enjoy each of
them. Mortdecai has now joined the ranks of Edward Scissorhands and
Sweeney Todd in my list of favorites. If you enjoy goofy comedies from
the likes of Mel Brooks, you will truly enjoy Mortdecai.
