
As the name suggests one can expect more twist and turns in the
story.the movie is directed by pavan wadeyar who had made his strong
debut as a director in pyaarge aagbitaithe,is back with a love comedy.

Plot:-Sharath(yash)is a fun loving guy who seldom had any friend
because,of freakish attitude.He always lives his life as he wish.One
day he is selected to represent his college at the global business
seminar meet,as he is the topper.As he enters the packed auditorium he
gets bored with the seminar and falls asleep.When his name is called
upon,he is woken up by swathi(kriti)who is an MBBS student.Later he
gives his hilarious speech and thanks swathi for waking him up.By this
meet,both of them become close friends and starts to like each
other.Over a period of time ,sharath starts to suspect every act of
swathi.One day swathi is injured, and things become more messy when he
misunderstands swathi's friend to be her boy-friend,at a hospital where
she is undergoing treatment. sharath gets annoyed and slaps.unlike any
guy who'll normally brood over his past girlfriend,sharath takes this
as a challenge and devotes his time to studies,and becomes a huge
business tycoon within couple of years.

after few years,he realizes his mistake of hurting swathi and
apologizes through phone call on her birthday.Unfortunately,he's hurt
to hear swathi being engaged to someone.Later,he returns to India to
attend his friend's wedding,and is surprised to see swathi. Then,he'll
come to know that swathi had lied to him,and tries to win her heart
again.The movie ends with two couple uniting for eternal.

this blockbuster has every spice to turn the heat of audience.songs are
foot-tapping,cinematography is ultimate and more than everything all
the characters have given complete justice to their roles especially
yash,ananth nag,kriti. it's really a treat to watch gorgeous kriti on
silver screen.The thing i liked most about this movie is that a guy
should not brood over his past,instead become the architect of his
future.This movie is definitely a breath of fresh air for kannada
industry and a humongous break to Yash.
