
This is one of the few films I have seen where I was left wanting more.
There were non stop laughs, funny sight gags and wonderful actors. It
was wonderful to see Kate Beckinsale and Chloe Sevigny back together as
well. Tom Bennett is truly a joy to watch and steals all of the scenes
he is in. The costumes, sets, and acting are all top rate. The script,
pacing and direction all make the movie flow at a fast pace. I was
never bored and at the end of the film, I was left wanting more. This
is one of the greatest compliments I can give to a film. Time does fly
when you watch this film and feel free to laugh out loud when you watch
it. Everyone else will be.

Ten out of ten
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Jane Austen ROCKS! Sure, that might
be a slightly exaggerated description of the writer who passed away
almost two hundred years ago, and is known for such subtle and nuanced
work as "Sense and Sensibility" and "Emma". But it's difficult to argue
the fact that Ms. Austen's 2016 is off to an impressive start. First
came Burr Steers' highly creative and entertaining "Pride and Prejudice
and Zombies", and now Whit Stillman delivers a cracking version of her
(apparently) unfinished novella "Lady Susan".

Thanks to the standout performance from Kate Beckinsale, and the manner
in which words from Austen and Stillman go zipping by (sometimes
honestly, sometimes not), this is one fun and briskly-paced romp  more
descriptions not typically associated with the prim Ms. Austen. Ms.
Beckinsale as Lady Susan Vernon flashes spunk and comedic timing that
we have not previously seen from her. She fits marvelously in the dress
of the late 1700's, while packing a diabolical and manipulative nature
more often displayed in contemporary settings.

The supporting cast seems to be having a marvelous time. Chloe Sevigny
is Alicia, Lady Susan's confidant and gossip buddy  and one whose
husband (Stephen Fry) continually threatens to ship back to Connecticut
(as if it were the coal mines or outback). Emma Greenwell is Catherine
DeCourcy Vernon, adversary and sister-in-law to Lady Susan, and Mofryd
Clark plays Frederica, Susan's somewhat mousy and inconvenient
daughter.

Though the women are standouts here, the men hold their own. Xavier
Samuel is Reginald DeCourcy, the somewhat naïve and
susceptible-to-advances-from-Susan young man, and Tom Bennett manages
to steal most every scene as the quite silly and funny (and wealthy)
Sir James Martin. Adding their own special touches are James Fleet and
Jemma Redgrave as Sir Reginald DeCourcy and Lady DeCourcy,
respectively; and Jenn Murray as Lord Manwaring  one of three suitors
to Lady Susan.

This spoof/parody will strike a chord for anyone accustomed to the
uptight nature of most period pieces, as well as the importance of
status, decorum and the corresponding insecurities (a weakness the
cunning Lady Susan will most certainly seize upon). Mr. Stillman
(Damsels in Distress, The Last Days of Disco) is an immensely talented
writer, and certainly a welcome complement Ms. Austen's posthumously
published work. It's a deliciously funny and intricate story that
features such quips of gold as "Facts are horrible things." Welcome to
the zany verbal barrages of Lady Susan, Whit Stillman and Jane Austen.
Yep  zany and Jane Austen in the same sentence. I told you she ROCKS!
<|_=00=_|>
The funniest character in the film is James Martin. He steals every
scene he's in and each time he was on the screen I couldn't stop
laughing. Unfortunately, he isn't in a lot of the film, and the rest of
the movie's humor comes in the form of pithy one liners at the end of
every scene. Sometimes I'd chuckle at those, but that'd be about it.
There aren't any weak links in the cast, they all do a great job with
what they're given, but I wish they were given something better. The
movie moves at an incredibly slow pace, and with not a lot ever going
on, it often feels like I'm being read a Jane Austen novel rather than
watching a movie adaptation. The movie isn't "bad" by any means but
there's so little going for it that I would consider noteworthy I can't
really find myself ever wanting to sit through Love & Friendship again.
Maybe if you absolutely LOVE period dramas from a design standpoint or
are a huge Jane Austen fan, you'll get more out of this movie than I
did, but otherwise there isn't much here.
<|_=00=_|>
"Love And Friendship" is not classified as a comedy but that's the only
way it succeeds. Our website calls it a drama/romance but those labels
don't capture the essence of Jane Austen's late 18th century novella,
gorgeously filmed and impeccably acted by a predominantly British cast.

In a nutshell; Lady Susan is recently widowed and now relies on the
kindness of friends and relatives for shelter as she is very short of
money. So she bounces from estate to estate endearing herself to the
menfolk and is notorious among the ladies. Lady Susan is very beautiful
and flirtatious; a husband is needed to achieve stability as well as
position, not to mention a reliable source of income (We have to infer
much of this information from the plot; Lady Susan is not a flamboyant
character, like Auntie Mame). 

"Love And Friendship" sports first class production values as well as a
sophisticated literary background. Kate Beckinsale is good as Lady
Susan and the rest of the cast is even better. Midway through the film
gets a needed boost from Tom Bennett, who plays the oafish Sir James
Martin. He is an oasis in the midst of the arid screenplay, which cries
for more of his bumbling presence.

This is a movie for grownups in a landscape festooned with juvenile
entertainment. It is difficult to find fault with any part of this
handsomely mounted production which is graced by Jane Austen's
relentlessly clever dialogue and the skilled direction of Whit Stillman
("Metropolitan", "The Last Days Of Disco"). Well done all around
despite the bland storyline.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's my beef with Love and Friendship. They told the story. Emphasis
on told. Not sure if they didn't know how to build the character
backgrounds and cultural implications into an hour and a half-ish flick
or what. It's like they assumed you understood some things but, needed
to explain the bulk of the story via Lady Susan. Instead of building
the story via scenes and acting and playing out the idea and letting
the audience think and work out the connections....leave a little to
figure out if you got it right or not, Beckinsale's character basically
narrarated everything that was going on. As we walked out, I said to my
wife, Downton Abbey left a pretty high bar for period pieces. The Jane
Austin story of relationships and status and morality was interesting
enough. The presentation just plain left it all in the book. You read a
book, and you know you're reading a book. Director Stillman just had
the book read to us by actors. It wasn't as interesting as that may
sound either. I don't know if it was budget over directing but, this
was a disappointing movie-fication of a book. Even the period
environment was stumbling and stiff. Oh yeah, a hand maiden should do
this. Oh yeah, the footman or, doorman or butler would do this. It came
across as a poorly staged amateur play, where there was no fluidity.
Other reviews said you'd be laughing out loud. Maybe a few snickers and
giggles. I was glad it was only 90-ish minutes. If you're coming to
this because Downton Abbey made you a fan of that period of England,
I'm sorry to tell you, you won't be satisfied by Love and Friendship.
<|_=00=_|>
I have read just about every Jane Austin novel and have seen many
different versions of movies based on her books. As a guy, this makes
me very unusual to say the least. But even women, who are usually the
most die-hard fans of this great writer, only make up a small
percentage of the population. Because of this, I feel safe in saying
that a new film parody of Austin, Love & Friendship, is likely only to
be seen by folks who love and appreciate her stories. For them, this
film is a must-see. For everyone else...not so much. Now this is not
because there's anything wrong with this new movie...on the contrary,
it's very well made and was produced, surprisingly enough, by Amazon
Films (yes, from amazon.com)! Quite surprising...especially for a lush
period piece. But the average person simply won't understand or
appreciate the very droll and dry humor. And, even if you are a fan,
you really have to be into the language and pay close attention for all
the nuances. Again...not a complaint...more an observation which will
let you decide whether the film will be right for you.

This film, as in other Austin films, is set in the Regency period in
Britain (the very early 19th century). However, the filmmakers actually
chose to make the film in Ireland...and it's a nice substitute. When
the film begins, Lady Susan Vernon (Kate Beckinsale) is abruptly
leaving the Manwaring estate. You have no idea why but soon learn that
Lady Susan is a rather poor woman and generally visits with friends and
family in order to sponge off them. She also feels no particular
obligation to pay her mounting debts...after all, she is Lady Susan!
Her sister-in-law, Catherine Vernon (Emma Greenwell) isn't completely
thrilled with the visit to her home, as Lady Susan has the reputation
as a very beguiling yet vicious woman...all done with a smile.
Catherine is also soon alarmed because her nice but slightly dim
brother, Reginald DeCourcy (Xavier Samuel) is captivated by Lady Susan
and would love to marry her. Oddly, despite Lady Susan being a horrible
and conniving woman, when her daughter, Frederica (Morfydd Clark) joins
them at their estate, she is nothing like her mother...and the audience
hopes and prays that dopey Reginald recognizes Frederica and Susan for
who they truly are. However, Susan is determined to have Reginald for
herself and instead foist the incredibly boring and stupid Sir James
Martin (Tom Bennett) onto Frederica. Can this master manipulator be
stopped or will she soon manage to make three other people completely
miserable?

This film is quite funny but the humor is nothing like the long string
of brain-dead and worthless parodies of films such as Disaster Movie
and Date Movie. Instead of being broad and written for the average 10
year-old, Love & Friendship is often very subtle and is filled with wit
that should appeal to Austin fans. But it's also the sort of
well-crafted film that just has a limited appeal to broader audiences.
It's a shame, as it's very well directed, sports a clever script and
has lots of wonderful supporting actors such as Steven Fry and James
Fleet (who is my favorite in the supporting cast). For fans of the
author it's a must-see...others might just want to wait until this
comes to Netflix or DVD.

For fans, I'd give this one a 10. For all others, perhaps a 5 or 6.
<|_=00=_|>
Perhaps this is a movie that only Jane Austen fans can love. I like
Jane Austen but I don't like this movie. 

The non-acting aspects of the movie were superb, and the acting overall
was fine. My problems with the movie is the story itself and the
director's lack of imagination with it.

The movie reflects that, as an early work of Jane Austen, it was not
very sophisticated. The writing and directing did not improve on it. In
effect, the movie was built on a series of tedious soliloquies by Lady
Susan. The only suspense was provided by not knowing which plot
elements were real or Lady Susan's fabricated illusions. After a while
I realized that I was giving too much benefit to Lady Susan for
fabricating illusions. She was clever but not that clever. Her cunning
strategies--and the plot--mostly had a short-term horizon that never
extended past the next scene. 

I want to find the book and read it because I can't believe that it had
some of the serious defects that the film showed. Most notably, what
has been a friendly relation abruptly transformed to a discussion of
marriage. I thought I had missed some bridging aspect of the dialogue
but checked with my companions after the movie and they had been
mystified too. I have a sense that a bridging scene was left on the
editing room floor and no one noticed the abrupt change of pace. 

The conclusion of the movie came too suddenly. Just was it seemed there
would be another act, the house lights came on and the movie was over.
I got the sense that Jane Austen ran out of ideas for the story,
perhaps got bored with it, and so quickly tied up the loose ends. 

To restate, the non-acting aspects of the movie were superb, and the
acting itself was fine, per se. Perhaps there wasn't much material for
a great movie in the original Jane Austen work, but the movie I saw
could have been a lot better. I think the directing killed the
potential for great acting and killed movie overall.
<|_=00=_|>
Whit Stillman is hardly the most prolific of film-makers. Since his
debut, "Metropolitan", in 1990, he has only directed 5 feature films,
all of which he has also written, but they represent as fine a body of
work as any in contemporary American cinema. His movies may not be
particularly 'cinematic'; they are talkative comedies but they are also
fiercely intelligent and often very funny in a way that so many films
aren't these days. When people talk of Stillman they may be thinking of
Jane Austen, so perhaps it was only to be expected that Stillman would
finally get around to tackling an Austen story.

"Love and Friendship", Stillman's thoroughly delightful new film, is
based on Austen's little known novella "Lady Susan" and it may be the
best screen version of Austen thus far. It's deeply acerbic in a way
Austen seldom is and it's also laugh-out-loud funny. Kate Beckinsale is
Lady Susan, recently widowed, mother of a daughter of marriageable age
and financially dependent on the kindness of strangers.

When the film opens she has arrived at the country seat of her
sister-in-law, Catherine DeCourcy Vernon, in search of shelter and
perhaps a new husband. Her reputation of being something of a man-eater
has preceded her and yet she has no trouble in winning the heart of
Catherine's younger brother, Reginald. What follows is a typically
brilliant and very Austen-like tale of romantic intrigues and
misunderstandings, broader perhaps than either "Pride and Prejudice" or
"Sense and Sensibility" yet totally in keeping with Stillman's view of
the world, past and present.

It would be invidious of me to choose one member of a wonderful
ensemble over another for special praise since every performance is
close to sublime. Still, it was gratifying to see Chloe Sevigny, in the
best part she's had in some time, as Lady Susan's American friend and
confidante, always living in fear in being shipped back to Connecticut
by her older husband, played by Stephen Fry.

The closest Stillman comes to making his film cinematic is in his use
of 'natural' lighting in several of the interior shots; otherwise this
movie, like everything else Stillman has done, is totally dependent on
his brilliant cast, the sharpness of his writing and the wit and
compassion of his direction to make its mark. I doubt if I will see
anything more entertaining this year.
<|_=00=_|>
You've seen them haven't you? Fabulously beribboned in colourful satin
silks and gold and silver trimmings. You pay through the nose for, as
you guess, six hand made chocs. You nurse your little package all the
way home, make a brew, sit in your comfy chair and prepare to delight
in the little delicacies inside that tempting box. Whoa! You lift the
lid and wail-oh-wail it is empty! Such is this film. Nice packaging but
there is nothing there. Nothing I tell you. Someone left a Christmas
cracker joke in there instead - not even that funny. Oh wail wail wail.
Been conned before - why didn't I spot this for what it is. Grown ups
playing in the dressing up box, that's all. You don't get to play along
at all. You can sit in the dark and go to sleep instead though.
<|_=00=_|>
Set in 1790, Kate Beckinsale plays Lady Susan Vernon, an 18th century
cuckoo-like 'MILF' (actually, more 'LILF', but using the 'Lady' term
loosely) who with her glamorous demeanour is lusted after by both
younger beaus as well as married aristocracy: an example being Lord
Manwaring (Lochlann O'Mearáin).

Playing many different ends against the middle, Lady Susan  with the
collusion of her American friend Alicia (Chloë Sevigny)  attempts to
both find a suitably rich suitor for her daughter Frederica (Morfydd
Clark) as well as finding a rich husband for herself to allow her to
stay in the manor (sic) to which she has become accustomed. A tale of
deception, pregnancy and a marriage of convenience follows: does Lady
Susan have to choose between her sexual desires and the rich, stupid
and dull Sir James Martin (Tom Bennett, "David Brent: Life on the
Road"). Or can she have her cake and eat it?

Based on a Jane Austen short story, "Lady Susan", this is a delight
from beginning to end. However, it does require the attention of the
viewer: characters get introduced to you in rapid fire succession, and
keeping track of who's who and how they interrelate is quite a
challenge.

But this is a tour de force for Kate "Underworld" Beckinsale who
delivers a depth of acting ability that I've not seen from her in the
past. Her comic timing is just sublime, and while comedies are often
overlooked in Awards season, this is a role for which she richly
deserves both BAFTA and Oscar recognition.

Stephen Fry joins what is a superb ensemble cast. But outstanding among
them is Tom Bennett who is simply hilarious as the nice but dim Sir
James. The comic routine about his misunderstanding of "Churchill"
(Church  Hill)  a running gag  is sublime and a challenger (with
"Was that it t'were so simple") for the comedy routine of the year.

Directed by Whit Stilman ("The Last Days of Disco") from his own
screenplay, this is one for the more sophisticated viewer: requiring of
your full attention, but a treat for the eyes, ears and brain.

(For the graphical version of this review please visit http://bob-the-
movie-man.com. Thanks.)
