
In a word... "Flat." Seeing this remake only left me wanting to see the
old cartoon once again. I loved the old cartoon as a kid and can easily
recall many details decades later. Conversely, I just saw the new one
and it just blends in with a bunch of other fantasy-adventure
/superhero / CGI remakes of late.

In general, this remake just felt like it had no soul.

In particular, they didn't develop the characters much. It was obvious
the film-makers didn't care about the main characters much so why
should we either? I guess the special effects or CGI were impressive,
especially the talking animals, but that's been done so much its just
not a big deal anymore. They can't base a whole movie on those effects
anymore and just touch on a few songs. The singing and music in the old
version was so much more developed, energetic and memorable.

The guest voice-overs were good but too recognizable. I kept thinking
of Bill Murray talking into a mic instead of watching the fake bear
talk. To be fair, Ben Kingsley pulled off the character very smoothly.
But why did they make that orangutang so huge? Was he King Kong's lost
brother? And voiced by Christopher Walken it really didn't make sense.
Jungle animals are already awesome, you don't need to enlarge them or
make up new ones.

A high point of the movie was when Mogli helped the elephant baby from
the pit. More of this tenderness would have been welcome, which brings
me to the next point...

This story was always potentially very violent; we're talking about
jungle law here- brutal life and death is always near. But while the
old cartoon version separated that violence enough from reality to make
it safe and enjoyable for a younger audience, the new one crossed the
line. It was too real, in my opinion, for most kids under about 11 or
so. True, many kids play violent computer games from earlier ages now,
so some would argue they can "handle it", but is that the kind of trend
for them you want to support? I would argue the more we desensitize the
youth now, the less sensitive they will be later on when they may be
taking care of us when we're seniors. Do we want such thoroughly
insensitive people running society in the future? So, while yes- it was
exciting, I think this production really narrowed their audience down
to the preteens (for whom it may be too violent) and the teenagers (for
whom it may be too kiddie- you know with the talking animals and all).
So sorry Disney, I've so often loved your movies, but not this time.
<|_=00=_|>
Raised by a family of wolves since birth, Mowgli (Neel Sethi) must
leave the only home he's ever known when the fearsome tiger Shere Khan
(Idris Elba) unleashes his mighty roar. Guided by a no-nonsense panther
(Ben Kingsley) and a free-spirited bear (Bill Murray), the young boy
meets an array of jungle animals, including a slithery python and a
smooth-talking ape. Along the way, Mowgli learns valuable life lessons
as his epic journey of self-discovery leads to fun and adventure.

Disney Picture is the best company in making top and number 1 family
movies.

Everything is excellent about this movie.

I guarantee you this top movie will win too many Oscars.
<|_=00=_|>
The Jungle Book has been raved about by everyone I know, but now that
I've finally seen it I don't quite understand what all the hype is
about. It's true that the CG is nothing short of outstanding,
especially considering a lot of it is done during the day instead of at
night, and I'm impressed with how much they were able to accomplish,
but a pretty movie and an exceptional movie are not at all the same
thing; similarly, a better than average movie and an exceptional movie
are not the same thing, and this movie is better than average.

The writing wasn't great, but it was passable. This is a kid's movie
after all, and while I don't in any way think that's an excuse for a
movie to have a worse script than any other, it's important to
understand that the film still needs to keep the children entertained
with silly jokes and easy-to-understand dialogue. 

My main problem with the film was the child actor. I'm not expecting a
12-year-old kid to be able act like an A-Lister, but there was one
particular shot were he screamed and I accidentally laughed in the
near-silent theater because it seemed to out of place and awkward. He
was also given outrageously simple and clich√© lines. It was always "I'm
doing this thing because of this other thing" and felt like the
majority of his talking was done explaining to other characters that he
had to reach is his goal instead of developing his character. There
were a few scenes where he was able to act like a normal kid, and those
were definitely his best performances, but overall he wasn't able to
give it his all because what he was supplied with wouldn't allow him
to.

The other characters were played well, and the animators did a good job
with the choreography of all the fights. Bill Murray was a great choice
for Baloo, and at this point I can't think of any other voice that
could have given a bear that much character.The songs, however, felt
out of place and forced, and that's all I'm going to say about those.

I do not dislike this movie in any sense, and I recommend that people
go and see it. At it's heart it is a very good story, and one that I
very much enjoy. I'm sure that the nostalgia of revisiting your
childhood will help you enjoy it more than I did, because the only
scene I'd ever seen from the 1967 movie was the one with the singing
monkeys, so there wasn't a lot in the film to connect to my past.
<|_=00=_|>
Mowgli (Neel Sethi) is a man-cub raised by the Indian wolf Raksha
(Lupita Nyong'o) and her pack led by Akela (Giancarlo Esposito) ever
since he was brought to them as a baby by the black panther Bagheera
(Ben Kingsley). Bagheera trains Mowgli to learn the ways of the wolves
but Mowgli faces certain challenges and lags behind his wolf siblings,
and Bagheera berates him for using human tricks like tool building,
instead of learning the ways of the pack. One day, during the dry
season, all the animals in the jungle gather at the Peace Rock to drink
the water that remains as part of the Water Truce, a timeout called
during a drought that enables all animals to gather at a water hole
without fear of being eaten by larger, more predatory animals. The
peaceful gathering is disrupted when the fearsome Bengal tiger Shere
Khan (Idris Elba) makes his presence felt. He detects Mowgli's scent
amongst the crowd and threatens his life since man is not welcome in
the jungle. He holds the scars on his face as proof of man's cruel and
destructive nature and issues a warning that when the Water Truce ends
and the Peace Rock disappears, he will come for the boy. Thus, a debate
and argument arises amongst the members of the wolf pack as to whether
or not they should keep Mowgli. But before a general consensus is
reached, Mowgli voluntarily decides to leave the jungle for the sake
and safety of his pack. Bagheera volunteers to guide him to the human
civilization. However, en-route, Shere Khan ambushes them, injuring
Bagheera while Mowgli manages to escape with the help of a herd of
water buffaloes. Mowgli, now alone, stumbles upon a thick canopy where
he meets Kaa (Scarlett Johansson), an enormous Indian python who lures
him in with promises of safety and an assurance that she knows who and
what Mowgli truly is. Kaa's hypnosis shows Mowgli a vision of his
father being killed by Shere Khan and of himself as an abandoned infant
being found by Bagheera and also warns of the destructive power of
man's "red flower". Having successfully wrapped Mowgli in her coils,
Kaa attempts to devour Mowgli, but he is rescued by a sloth bear named
Baloo (Bill Murray). In exchange for saving Mowgli's life, Baloo tells
Mowgli to fetch him honey which is atop a cliff, to which Mowgli
unwillingly agrees. Together, they form a close bond and Mowgli decides
to stay with Baloo until the winter season arrives. Back in the jungle,
Shere Khan visits the wolf pack looking for the "man- cub." When Akela
states that Mowgli has left the pack, Shere Khan kills Akela by
throwing him off the cliff. He demands that the boy be handed over to
him. Confident that Mowgli will return again, Shere Khan takes over the
pack. When Bagheera returns to fetch Mowgli, he discovers that Mowgli
has decided to live with Baloo. Although tension is raised between the
three, they all agree to sleep on it until the following morning. At
night, Mowgli hears a cry for help and discovers that a baby Indian
elephant is trapped in a deep pit. Using his tricks, he fashions a rope
to rescue the baby elephant. This forms a bond between Mowgli and the
Indian elephants. Following Bagheera's instructions, Baloo unwillingly
confronts Mowgli and lies to him that he never considered him a friend,
hoping that Mowgli can change his mind about staying with him. But
Mowgli is suddenly abducted by a group of monkeys who take him to an
ancient ruined temple and present him to King Louie (Christopher
Walken), a Bornean orangutan-resembling Gigantopithecus who tries to
coerce Mowgli into giving up the secret to the elusive and deadly "red
flower". Baloo and Bagheera arrive just in time to distract the monkeys
and manage to hold them off while Mowgli flees into hiding. King Louie
chases Mowgli through the temple, causing it to crumble on top of him.
Before Mowgli leaves, King Louie informs him of Akela's demise. Furious
of the fact that Baloo and Bagheera kept him in the dark about Akela's
death, Mowgli decides to return to the jungle and confront Shere Khan
to avenge the death of his leader and end his tyranny. But first,
Mowgli ventures into the village where the humans live and for the
first time, he sees his own kind from afar and gazes at them in
amazement. He steals one of the burning torches and heads back to the
jungle but accidentally starts a fire. Baloo and Bagheera follow him in
close pursuit. When the news breaks out that a man with the "red
flower" is making his way into the jungle, all the animals gather at
the Peace Rock. Mowgli confronts Shere Khan, but sees how all the
animals of the jungle cower in fear at the sight of the fire he holds.
He throws away his torch into the water, allowing Shere Khan to attack
him. Bagheera, Baloo and the wolf pack manage to hold him off, thus
buying Mowgli enough time to set a trap in the burning jungle. He lures
Shere Khan into a dying tree with a fig branch and is able to coax him
into stepping on it, causing it to break. Shere Khan falls to his death
into the pit of fire below. The Indian elephants later help to
extinguish the fire by diverting the river. Raksha then becomes the new
Alpha and leads the wolf pack. Mowgli decides to do things his own way,
having at last found a true home in the jungle with the animals,
including his friends Baloo and Bagheera.
<|_=00=_|>
The Jungle Book is a live-action/CGI fantasy film that retells the
story of Mowgli, an orphaned human boy who, guided by his animal
guardians, sets out on a journey of self-discovery while evading the
threatening Shere Khan. Neel Sethi plays the main character, Mowgli in
the movie. He is the only human being on screen and as his first ever
role, this kid actor is truly magnificent. He is as good as any kid
actor has ever been, even favorably compared to Haley Joel Osment in
The Sixth Sense. The computer generated imagery is brilliant all
throughout, definitely some of the best ever and the 3D is just mind
blowing. In every single scene I kept getting surprised and thrilled at
just how amazing the CGI and 3D were. I think the main reason as to why
this movie worked it's because it also has a very good story line
that's mixed in with the amazing visuals. Also, the voice actors are
all perfectly cast. Especially Idris Elba as Shere Khan, who is truly
haunting in every scene he's in. That was one well made and scary
villain that Mowgli had to face. Jon Favreau did a fantastic work with
this movie, cause really this story has been told many times before,
and yet this movie feels fresh and interesting nonetheless. I'm glad
that it's doing so well in Box Office because it completely deserves
it. Movies like this must be appreciated so that they can inspire more
great work, and maybe one day, even erase movies like Transformers.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never been a fan of the original Jungle Book movie, but I did grow
up watching it, and I did like it. This remake is (in my opinion)
Disney's best remake so far.

The animation and the scenery is basically a new age in CGI. Not only
are there CGI characters and creatures now, but locations too. The
entire jungle looks absolutely real, yet it's not, and that's the great
thing about it.

The characters themselves were pretty cool. I didn't care for Mowgli in
the original movie, but this movie got me liking him. He's brave, not
as bratty, and he's pretty inventive. Bagheera is as stern and careful
as ever except that he's also got the action his book counterpart had
had. And I like Baloo's character here, having a bit more of a
self-serving trait his older counterparts never had but eventually
becoming a nice guy. And that's the main characters. The wolves got
more screen time, Kaa got a lot more dangerous (though she doesn't have
as much screen time, which is my only complaint in this movie), King
Louie is more sinister and less comical, and Shere Khan is a flat-out
beast.

I'm also glad that they brought back three songs I enjoyed as a kid. I
really liked Bare Necessities, and I've also started singing this
version of I Wanna Be Like You. Trust In Me made me feel like Kaa was
in a spy movie.

So on a scale from one to ten, I'd give it a perfect score: 10/10. It's
an epic movie, and I highly recommend seeing this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
When I went to see this movie I kept thinking about how great was the
cartoon movie with all its extravagant and funny characters: Balu, the
elephants, even evil characters like Kaa (the snake) were fun to watch.
How could I even forget a minor character like the vultures, and their
jokes on Shere Khan? Their humor was great in contrast with the tiger's
ego. I thought I would revive all those memories watching this movie. I
was wrong.

This movie is lacking of various things. First, a good plot. Second,
good characters with relevant appearances. Third, humour (nonexistent
if we ignore Balu) and a good atmosphere for songs (is this supposed to
be a musical?). And fifth but not least, WHAT IS KING KONG DOING IN
KING LOUI'S TEMPLE?? What they have done to that poor monkey is
unbearable.

MY SUMMARY(SPOILERS):

King Loui doesn't dance. Shere Kahn doesn't bother to chase Mogli
through the jungle. Why would him anyway? He already knows the plot.
Kaa's appearance in the movie is what in Spanish we call "postureo". He
appears once. He narrates Mowgli's origins to the spectator (how plot
convenient...). He tries to eat the kid with no success and fades away
to live happily ever after. The rest can be summarized in: f*ck logic.
I have been walking for two days to get to the human village, and now I
can just run away for 10 minutes with a torch in hand to get just where
the movie started. Hi, my name is Mowgly and I like to burn down
jungles in my free time (appaluse). AH AND THE VULTURES DON'T EVEN
SPEAK IN THE WHOLE MOVIE, SAME AS THE ELEPHANTS which are considered
gods among the other animals (wtf) and magically appear in the last
scene to save the day.

Please re watch the old movie instead of wasting your money in this
thing. Why Loui?... Why?...
<|_=00=_|>
This was certainly an amazing looking film, and knowing it was all
computer generated is almost worrisome--computers are capable of so
much now, practical effects are becoming endangered. The story was very
familiar to me going in. It was one of the most beloved films of my
childhood, and the original Disney film still looks amazing today. I
don't know why, but nothing about this version interested me. Some of
the differences are easy to pick out--there is no comparison between
the original Baloo and the Bill Murray performance for me, as I much
prefer the original. Most of the rest of the movie, I just didn't care
about. King Louie, Shere Khan, even Mowgli--they just feel empty and
uninspired. I didn't dislike it, I just didn't feel that I would ever
want to watch it again.
<|_=00=_|>
The boy Mowgli (Neel Sethi) is raised in the jungle by the female wolf
Raksha with her cubs in the pack led by Akela. The panther Bagheera
saved Mowgli when he was a baby and delivered him to Raksha. During the
drought, the animals celebrate truce to drink water around the Peace
Rock together, but the cruel tiger Shere Khan sees Mowgli and promises
to kill him when the water return. Bagheera decides to guide Mowgli to
a village on the outskirts of the woods, but they are attacked by Shere
Khan during their journey. Mowgli flees but the anaconda Kaa attacks
him; however the bear Baloo saves him and they become friends. But
Shere Khan wants to kill Mowgli and no animal is capable to stop him.
What will happen to Mowgli?

"The Jungle Book" is an awesome film with fantastic CGI. It is
impressive the interaction of Mowgli with the animals and the jungle.
The wolf cubs are cute and the voice of Scarlett Johansson is
mesmerizing. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil):"Mogli: O Menino Lobo" ("Mogli: The Boy Wolf")
<|_=00=_|>
CGI. A source used to hide props or things in sets, not a good source
for characters. My mind is off that statement know changed thanks to
the work of Jon Favreau and cast/team. This movie FYI has fantastic
CGI, never in this movie I thought that those creatures were CGI. The
voice/real acting from all cast was fantastic, even from kid actor,
Neel Sethi. And also from the fearsome character, Shere Khan. Voiced by
Idris Elba. The story and directing runs smoothly with the visuals and
comedic acts animals and human do. This movie is an amazing one from
the visual acting and the acting, it deserves a lot of money from the
box office, see this movie in theaters or rent it if you can, almost
perfect.
