
The director is tremendously talented. The style is reminiscent of
Andrei Tarkovsky's Stalker. Despite the sadness of some of the events,
you are immersed in a world of supernatural beauty. The journeys
through nature have a ethereal transcendent quality to them. The
blindness of a leading character adds to this. The death toll of
Stalin's famine was estimated at 7-10 million. This was one of the
worst cases of genocide in human history. In this movie your soul feels
the weight of this tragedy, but the movie does not dwell on this. It is
setting, not the main narrative thrust. Hope and tender moments of
compassion fill the screen. When this movie shows tragedy it is
ultimately contrasted with a resistance of a human spirit that refuses
to die. This movie is also a powerful reminder. The false promises of
communism, which merely pretends to be a collectivist philosophy while
actually operating more like a mafia, are juxtaposed with the real
promises of compassion and love for ones neighbor. We are also shown
communist propaganda tactics that mask true intentions and create
confusion. Similar spin tactics accompany the war today. This is the
film that Ukraine needed to make in response to what is happening to it
right now. But it is so much more than that.
<|_=00=_|>
After creation of Soviet Union the cultures of all nations except
Russians were oppressed here. Many cultural figures of Ukraine
(writers, poets, scientists, theater and movie directors, actors,
painters, musicians, folk artists, etc) undesirable for Soviet regime
were executed or exiled to Siberia on the hard physical works,
especially during the 1930s (it is known as Executed Renaissance).
Among such figures were bandurists, the folk musicians who played on
the bandura (Ukrainian folk string instrument) and sign mainly the
patriotic sad ballads about cossacks, the Ukrainian steppe warriors of
the 15-19 centuries.

Main plot of this movie is a story of a blind wondering bandurist Ivan
Kocherga in 1932-1933. Accidentally he gives some help to American boy
Peter, whose father was killed by Soviet special services because of
some secret documents, and takes him as sighted person Â– the guide.

Blind bandurist and his young guide are traveling in Eastern Ukraine
among the beautiful landscapes and witnessing repressions of Ukrainian
people by Soviet regime.

This movie is excellently visualized, which is combined with great
music, including numerous Ukrainian folk songs.

It is clearly the best movie about Ukrainian culture since famous
"Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors" (1965) of Sergei Parajanov and
definitely the best one that was filmed in independent Ukraine so far.
<|_=00=_|>
This film's background is the Soviet Ukraine in the 1930s. It is a
story of a 10 year old boy who is separated from his American father
after the father is assassinated by Soviet NKVD agents for possessing
documentation that reveal the atrocities that were being committed by
the ruling communist party in Russia/Soviet Union. Millions of people
were perishing from the forced famine that the Soviet government
enforced to collectivize the farming community. The plot revolves
around the boy's attempt to survive in Ukraine and get back to his home
in the United States. He is aided by a blind minstrel (Kobzar). The
story is a heart wrenching view of life under the Russian/Soviet
communist dictatorship. The scenery is beautiful, the plot is
mesmerizing and the acting is superb. I give it 10 stars.

ZJ Kossak
<|_=00=_|>
When I heard about this movie in the first time, sincerely, I was
intrigued. Ukrainian film production is surviving sphere, but indeed it
can produce GOOD movies, with unexpected, not trivial plot, strong and
mysterious characters, dramatic end.

This film has it's soul too. Minstrel's songs, chaotic escaping and
changing of epochs in totalitarian empire via pure eyes of ten-year
boy...

This film deserves to be watched. Definitely.

P.S. Maybe You don't know, but in real life NKVD chief's surname is
Kobzar (minstrel). And. I await the next generation of Ukrainian films:
about Kyiv Rus, Zaporozhian Host, epic and big-budget. Soon.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is one of the few that impartially present the difficult
times Ukraine found itself in during the 1930's. The times of massive
repressions and executions of the civilian population, murder by forced
starvation, and persecution of anyone who disagreed with the Soviet
government in Moscow.

Basic knowledge of Eastern European history of the early 20th century
would greatly help to see what links certain events together.

I suggest you read the synopsis before watching the movie to have a
better understanding of the events that take place. Their true
historical weight is what really gives them a deeper meaning.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is really valuable for me like for thousands other people.
Because of its story lines, kobza-player's songs, picturesque Ukrainian
nature and incredible mix of emotions like "laughing through crying".
"The Guide" for me is a promise for the great future of cinema in my
Motherland, because this film is valuable for Ukrainians only, but not
for the whole world now. Let me begin from bad side of "The Guide".
It's Jamala's unnatural play. She don't live in the film. She is trying
to play. And this is the thing, which give opportunity for growing to
Oles Sanin and Ukrainian cinema. Then, someone said Grin's play wasn't
so good, but it can't be usual or whole-understandable for us, because
he is a person from different country and culture both in real life and
film. That's all about bad sides. Maybe, its worth to say smth about
dialogs, but that which were played by brilliant actors are good and .
I am completely sure co-scenes of Stanislav Boklan and Irina Sanina
were the best, because of its authenticity and premiere on the "big
screen". I should say a big "Thank you!" to Sergii Mihalchuk, who took
a picture, and whole film team (I don't really know who should get the
biggest appreciation, except of director and actors, of course).
Another advantage its shooting in Ukrainian picturesque nature, which
takes a heart with it for a long months (I have watched "The Guide" in
November, but I still remember that moments of delight by simply
watching native landscapes). Year, so many words without mentioning
dramatic storyline in this film, which should play, actually, the main
role. But for me it isn't smth new, unknown. I can't even imagine how
it was. And I'm really stressful-less person, so it hasn't touched me.
Only mentioned that it really-really-really and I have a huge reason to
live for. Mistake isn't excused. But "The Guide" is still the best and
you still should watch it to understand and to move our history on.
<|_=00=_|>
The Guide - one of the best Ukrainian movies ever. Must watch film, to
understand current events in Ukraine. (Maidan 2014) History repeats
itself, especially since Russian government has not changed it's policy
toward Ukrainian nation. Based on Historical facts the movie portrays
how Soviet/Russian government had always wanted to destroy Ukrainian
identity,culture and its people. The movie is set in early 1930
Kharkiv, beginning of planed mass starvation (10 million Ukrainian
civilians) by Josef Stalin, called Holodomor. It also teaches us about
Ukrainian heroes, legendary Kobzars, spiritual leaders of Ukrainian
nation. In addition to a powerful story that the movie tells, filming,
acting and directing is at highest level of filmography.
