
Kevin Smith, whose repeated threats in recent years of permanently
exiting the world of filmmaking have taken on the dubious credibility
of retirement announcements from, say, most classic rock bands, has
apparently found his creative mojo once again with the batsh*t crazy
Tusk. Smith's previous film, 2011's Red State, was justifiably poorly
received by critics and audiences, souring him even further on the
filmmaking process. Then in 2013, a bizarre discussion on an episode of
Smith's SModcast podcast hastily inspired him to write and direct Tusk,
a high-concept movie (in more ways than one, I'm sure) that can be
summarized with one sentence: Los Angeles podcaster visits Manitoba and
gets kidnapped by a lunatic who turns him into a walrus. Still with me?
Smith, during the film's second TIFF screening I attended after its
world premiere the night before, joked that he had reached the point in
his career where "I don't give a fu*k anymore", but just because Smith
has reached a bitter crossroads in his career that's resulted in quite
literally one of the worst movie experiences I've ever sat through
doesn't mean you should also be subjected to the man's lack of impulse
control. 

Two main things drew me to Tusk: 1) I was a modest fan of most of
Smith's work (which you probably can't tell from the contempt being
leveled at him in this review, but that just speaks to the permanently
scarring effects of this abomination) and 2) the film is mostly set in
Manitoba and promised plenty of Canadian references and jokes. The
humour, like almost everything else in Tusk, never works, however. I
can count on one hand the number of times I laughed during the film and
I was surprised, frankly, that Smith, a man with both a sharp wit and
an extensive knowledge of this country (as he'll gladly point out any
chance he gets about the latter), stooped to such lazy and predictable
jokes about not loving hockey and the word "aboot". Johnny Depp shows
up briefly to chew scenery as Guy Lapointe, a quirky Quebec detective
constructed entirely of French-Canadian stereotypes that become
tiresome very quickly. For further evidence of the film's humour
deficiency, the name of the comedy podcast hosted by protagonist
Wallace Bryton (played by Justin Long, who goes heavy on the
douchebaggery) and his sidekick, Teddy (played by The Sixth Sense's
Haley Joel Osment), is "The Not-See Party", whose theme finds the hosts
making fun of people they've read about or seen on the internet. That
kind of half-assed and witless screen writing also extends to key plot
points, like the one that conveniently allows Wallace to contact his
friends after being kidnapped by the deranged Howard Howe (played by
Michael Parks, who's decent performance is the only thing remotely
redeemable about the movie). I could go on about how the supposed big
payoff of seeing Wallace transformed into a walrus disappoints mightily
with shoddy special effects (the sight of him is slightly disturbing,
but not Human Centipede-level disturbing), or how the tease of some
much-needed action at the movie's end is practically over before it
begins, or how the dreadful final scene provided a fitting end to this
turd of a filmÂ…but I'm sure you've gotten my point. As I write this,
I've gotten six days of distance from watching Tusk and having to
revisit it for this review has genuinely made me feel, well, annoyed. 

That annoyance was felt during the screening, too, as a packed audience
heavy on Smith fanboys and fangirls at the sizable Bloor Hot Docs
Cinema inexplicably laughed and cheered throughout the movie. Normally
I stick around for festival Q & A sessions, but as the credits rolled
and Tusk was met with rapturous applause, I couldn't head for the exits
quickly enough to get as far away as possible from Kevin Smith and
anyone who thought his latest film was worthy of such adoration. And
fair warning: Smith has two more films in the pipeline that'll complete
what he's calling his "True North Trilogy". Yoga Hosers is currently
shooting and centres around the pair of surly teenage girl convenience
store clerks (played by Smith's and Depp's daughters) that get about
five minutes of forgettable screen time in Tusk, to be followed by a
Jaws-inspired movie about a killer moose. God help us all.
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't enjoyed a moment of this movie. 

I am sick to death of torture porn and I'm sick to death of critics
claiming these movies to be "social commentary" on all sorts of things.
And man do critics love that sort of shtick, starting with Salo and
ending with Red State. 

And people saying that this movie is not to be taken seriously - you
know, when a movie is bad, it's not necessarily 'ironically bad',
sometimes it's just bad. 

When something is funny - I don't have to pretend it's funny and go
into it with a certain mindset. Like I don't have to look at this sick
crap and pretend that it is somehow funny. 

It's too silly to be a horror flick and too disturbing to be a comedy.
It's like a bad joke.
<|_=00=_|>
The very definition of "not for everyone", Tusk is an oddball, absurd,
twisted midnight movie that plays more like a demented fever dream than
a horror or comedy film. I'd never recommend it to anyone I intend to
ever speak to again.

Here are the reasons why you won't like it:

1) It's unexpectedly surreal, with little interest in the laws of
reality, or at least modern medicine and police work. And it's not
directed in an obviously surreal, arty fashion like, say, a David Lynch
picture, which makes it even harder to wrap your head around.

2) It's got an odd tone. There's comedy, sure, but it's mostly a
slower, more cringe- inducing variety than Kevin Smith is typically
known for. There's suspense, and a bit of gross-out, but the film
evokes more unease than outright scares, and the grotesqueries are more
evocative of a nightmare after eating one too many sliders than, say,
Saw. And it swings freely between the two with no warning at all.

3) You haven't seen Tod Browning's "Freaks", a classic bit of cult
cinema that Smith has made references to in other films. In fact, you
probably don't even know it exists. (Cinephiles will notice rather
direct references to many of Kev-O's other favorite movies as well,
including Silence of the Lambs and Jaws.)

4) You're Canadian, and your country and culture are No Laughing
Matter.

If for some reason none of the above applies to you, may I recommend
"Tusk"? It's oddball, gonzo, at times self indulgent and slow, but also
occasionally very funny and strangely thought-provoking, provided
you're willing to go along for the ride. It'll make an
impression...especially if your short-term memory "isn't what it used
to be."
<|_=00=_|>
Between this and Red State, Smith really doesn't seem to have any idea
of how to mix comedy and horror well together. All he knows how to do
is make one half of each film horror and the other half comedy without
successfully finding a balance. Tusk's first half is better than all of
Red State, but that second half is just... wow. Depp usually annoys me
and this was no exception. Parks was very good but ultimately one can't
rise above this sort of material. Oh sure, much of the first half was
effective and so I'm giving it points for that, but wow as it goes on.
Nonsensical dialogue that doesn't work and preposterous scenes that
aren't amusing or funny.
<|_=00=_|>
Semi-Spoiler (But not really) 

Horrible movie, My wife and I walked out before the end. First it was
boring with predictable jokes and plots. Then after a half hour you
just get to listen to Justin Log scream for the rest of the movie....
That I saw anyway!! Do not waste your time!!, wait till it's free
somewhere. Truly sad, I am a fan of Kevin Smith's work but this was off
the mark!

I hope the next horror movie that Kevin Creates is worth the time to
see it!!

If you truly have nothing else to do and no where else to go and
looking to waste money..... just burn the cash!
<|_=00=_|>
Well what can I say, Tusk is a film of it's own. The premise of the
film is Justin Long being turned into a patch- work walrus. It is a hit
or miss film, you either love it or hate it.

Justin Longs acting in this film is great, but the film had a lot of
jumping around and doesn't feel fluid with it's character arcs. It aims
to be a dark comedy and I did find myself chuckling at some parts in
the film, I equally found myself saying 'What am I watching' just as
often. There isn't really much character development in the movie, but
you do grow attached to Justin Longs character by the end of the film.
The actual walrus when you see it is slightly disturbing.

I genuinely felt slightly upset at the end of the film, but I felt as
though the film could have been written better. If there was a more
fluid feel to the scenes, and more development on the characters then
this film would be getting better ratings. 

The overall story is original, the acting is great, but as a final
product it feels very rushed and choppy. I enjoyed tusk and think that
it is underrated and being played off as 'too weird'

Yes, it's a weird film but it's trying to be different and is a nice
change of pace from most horror films these days. If you want a film
that will make you genuinely say 'WTF' at the end, tusk is for you. If
you're going into this film expecting a good horror film, you're going
to be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm just going to list the reasons this movie is bad:

-The concept for this movie isn't really good. Many times with horror
movies you hear, "oh, it was a good concept, though," but with this
movie, even the concept doesn't really make sense. A guy wants to turn
another guy into the walrus that "saved him" as a young man. What? 

-This movie contains a ridiculous amount of dialogue. It's a horror
movie; it doesn't require that much dialogue. 

-Justin Long does not belong in horror movies.

-There's a pretty significant gap in this movie. We go from Justin Long
with no legs and arms fused to shoulders to full on Justin Long in
walrus suit. I mean, the walrus suit was discussed in earlier parts of
the movie, but I feel like I missed something. There was no scene where
Justin Long was being put into the walrus suit. It just left me
confused.

-Speaking of the walrus suit - it is made of random pieces of people.
All of the pieces appear to be in similar states of decomposition,
which doesn't make sense. We know he didn't kill every one at once.
Also, isn't he trying to make Justin Long look like a walrus? When he's
in the suit, he looks more like a quilt than a walrus.

-Speaking of the body parts - at the end of the movie, Justin Long
decides to stay a walrus... What? Why would you want to stay a walrus?
And not even just the suit, he wants live in a walrus habitat and eat
raw fish. Dude, I get that your sort of stuck like that, but why go, as
the movie puts it, "full walrus?"

-Speaking of the fact that he wants to stay a walrus - I don't think he
legally can stay a walrus. This suit he is in is made out of murdered
people. Isn't that evidence? Wouldn't you have to ask the family if you
can keep the arm skin or face (yes, there are faces on it) of your
loved on that's been killed? This one really got to me... this doesn't
seem legal. And also, even if he didn't want to be fixed, wouldn't they
try to remove the walrus suit since it contains the human remains of
murder victims?

-Johnny Depp is in this movie. Why does he have such a small part?

-Justin Long's character is such an asshole. Why did his friends even
go after him?
<|_=00=_|>
So Wallas has been missing for three days, and his two friends each
receive a creepy phone message that he has been abducted and his life
is in danger. Wouldn't the immediate action be to go to the local
police, file a report, and start getting cell phone records of the last
broadcast location? Instead we see the two flying out to Canada, making
a few stops, talking to some people, and then going to the police. And
they just brush it off instead of, again, doing the obvious thing and
finding the last location of the cell phone. One simple throw-away line
("We can request the records, but it may take days") would have
sufficed. Instead, we're led to believe that all of these people are
operating in a world of technology from 1955.

And when they do find the car half-sunken in a nearby stream, nobody's
first reaction is to immediately call the police to send out a search
party. Don't any of these people have cell phones with roaming
capabilities? Clearly there's a cell tower nearby if their friend was
able to use his phone.

How could they have made this whole f-ing movie, and not one person
ever brought up this painfully obvious point?
<|_=00=_|>
Ah, Kevin Smith Â– I knew him well (mainly in the nineties during his
Clerks, Mallrats and Chasing Amy period). I would always say that he's
one hell of a writer of dialogue, whether his work falls straight into
the 'comedy' bracket, or he dabbles in other genres, i.e. romance,
science-fiction fantasy or horror. And, this time round, he's playing
with the 'horror genre.' 'Tusk' tells the tale of a complete idiot
(played delightfully by Justin Long). He's a typical product of the
modern age Â– a podcaster with ideas way above his station. Yes, he's a
little bit famous, but it appears that a little bit of fame corrupts
almost as much as absolute power. He thinks he's 'it' and lets everyone
know it, whether it's his co-presenter, his doting girlfriend, or
generally anyone he meets along the way.

One article on his upcoming podcast is an interview with a Canadian
'celebrity' who's also made his name on the internet. Sadly, the
'celebrity' in question is so traumatised with his newfound fame that
he kills himself, 'selfishly' leaving our glorious podcaster with
nothing to report on while in Canada. That's when he happens upon an
interesting offer in a men's restroom. It leads him to a reclusive
hermit, played brilliantly by Michael Parks, who offers to tell him his
life's story.

This is the fun part. The interaction between the two is just about as
perfect as dialogue can be. The two exchange tales and taken on life in
the setting of Park's Gothic mansion. The tension is cranked right up
to the max Â– you know something is going to happen (something bad,
obviously), but you just don't know what. This atmosphere is just
electrifying when combined with the snappy dialogue. Everything is
going great until...

...the film just kind of switches atmosphere and great dialogue for
cheap shocks. And shocks that look pretty bad rather than shocking. The
second half of the film is everything that the first half isn't, i.e.
cheesy. Yeah, there are a few moments of brilliance thrown in there,
but, when you realise what's actually happening, you'll probably just
shout, 'What... seriously?' It just doesn't work. It feels like someone
has tacked a second (lesser) film onto a good one. If I was rating the
first half I'd say it was awesome. If I was rating the second half I'd
say don't bother. Fans of Kevin Smith may like the dialogue (like I
did), but most people will not really go for this on account of the
sudden change in mood that doesn't fit where the film was originally
heading.

Best to watch this one for free however you can before you invest in
actually paying for it. Some people may find the second half as
shocking as it was intended. Personally, I just found it a let down and
stupid. Pity.
<|_=00=_|>
There are few films that I dislike to such an extent where I would
actually pay a considerable price for a crazy scientist to lobotomise
the part of my brain which remembers it. Tusk is one.

But in the interest of being 'fair' I'll begin with the positives.
Sorry, positive. The acting, in majority, is OK. (Johnny Depp, I
presume, can only have agreed to partake as a joke or because he
actually doesn't care about his reputation anymore).

Right, now the pleasantries are to one side I can continue. So think of
Human Centipede. Gross right? Crass? Tusk is a whole new level of vile.
Don't believe the tempting notion that this is based on a true story,
supposedly Kevin Smith and his mate where discussing a Gumtree add
which advertised free living if the lodger agreed to dress as a
walrus...

The thing that irritated me the most about this film, aside from the
insanely non-funny comedic elements and special effects that look as
though the production company allowed the intern free-rein of the art
room, is the ending. I won't ruin it, anyone who sits through the
entirety of the film without throwing up or crying or trying to scratch
their eyes out will need to see it in order to confirm how ridiculous
and awful it really is (honestly).

All in all I'm not sure whether I really 'get' what this film is meant
to represent. And by this I simply mean that maybe I'm not weird enough
to appreciate it.
