
Criminal is a 2016 American action thriller drama film directed by
Ariel Vromen and written by Douglas Cook and David Weisberg. The film
is about an ex-con who is implanted with a dead CIA agent's memories to
finish an assignment. The film stars Kevin Costner, Gary Oldman and
Tommy Lee Jones in their second collaboration following the 1991 film
JFK.

The memories and skills of deceased CIA agent Bill Pope are implanted
into gruff convict, Jericho Stewart, in order to finish an incomplete
mission.

Handsome Actor Ryan Reynolds plays the role of a CIA agent in London,
he struggles to come back to to his home base. Two opponents are
chasing him, the CIA and a team of terrorists. When the terrorists come
closer to the CIA agent a series of breathtaking incidents will happen
and the dramatic climax comes and will definitely please all the
audience who love Great Action Movies.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a really good movie, I don't understand all the critic's pans.
Yes, there is a sci-fi element, so what? Jericho is a man who suffered
a brain injury as a child that took away the use of his frontal lobe.
This left him with the animal instincts of survival with basically no
other human emotional traits as well as leaving that portion of his
brain as virtually a blank canvas. The movie was action-packed, there
were no slow points, the acting was spot on, the photography was great,
the characters well defined. Jericho is a human experiment that the
government forced to happen. The results are what one might expect from
government interference in such a situation. If the world every goes
full on crazy, I want Jericho on my team! I would go to see this movie
again with a friend and I will certainly buy the DVD when it comes out.
Costner is such a well developed actor and does a great job with the
part. Make no mistake, that Jericho dude is one bad...
<|_=00=_|>
This was a very good movie I am so glad I went to see it in spite of
the spoilers people have been saying about it. Kevin Costner did a
great job of transitioning from a bad guy to a guy that was just
learning to have emotions love the ending of the movie. You should go
see this movie in spite of the critics. I don't want to give too much
detail about the movie but I really enjoyed it. In the beginning he
didn't do what everyone wanted him to do and I think that is what made
the movie good because it wasn't straight up predictable. Some parts
you may guess on but not totally. When the bad guys make progress you
enjoy seeing g them get what's coming to them. Go see this movie. Great
cast too.
<|_=00=_|>
This film has been saved by its stars: Ryan Reynolds first and Kevin
Costner few minutes later will make you forget most of plot's
unbelievable logical holes, awful editing (what's Alice Eve's end?),
repetitive scenes and complete lack of bad guy's motive (Jordi Moll√†).

And Tommy Lee Jones, Gal Gadot, Gary Oldman and Michael Pitt (Alice Eve
here is little more than an extra) strive to fill with workmanship and
dignity their otherwise gaunt supporting roles.

They all succeed in saving the day and in the end you won't fall asleep
or leave theater in contempt. But on your way home you could probably
comment that this is one of the most useless (or unconvincing) films
you ever watched.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first ever review of a movie and boy what movie.

The cast is perfect, the setting is brilliant. The story flawless (if
you let yourself go with it)

First of all let me say that Mr Costner has proved beyond a shadow of a
doubt he is one of the greatest actors of this or any generation. His
performance is powerful, stirring and just plain amazing. I would never
of thought he could portray a character like this. This is not the man
from Robin Hood.. far from a Field of Dreams and so much more than a
Waterworld. The pace never lets up and you will find yourself shocked,
stunned , cheering, laughing and wincing in equal measure. All parts
are played by cast brilliantly and with conviction. The action
sequences do not feel like set pieces but more like a fluid progression
of the plight of the main character. Gal Godot is beautiful in this
movie, frail and torn and you can see it, I mean really see it. Ms
Gabot is proving to be far more than a pretty face (not that I only
thought that) Ryan Renolds is on key as usual in a familiar kind of
role. At one point (i'll let you figure which part I mean) my heart
breaks for the man. Gary Oldman is frantic and who can blame him , also
brilliantly done. I'm not going to dissect the movie as I'm sure many
will but only say be prepared for a movie that will draw you in and
keep you hooked until the very end and then have you begging for the
movie to be longer. Down to direction, location, stunts, sfx BRAVO !!
I'm not sure if this is a movie that will be looked upon as Oscar
worthy (it should be) but for the sake of common sense and justice to a
great performance, Mr Kevin Costner take a bow and I hope beyond hope
that you get the recognition you deserve for this movie... Outstanding
!!!!! 

P.S sorry if my grammar offends (or amuses) :)
<|_=00=_|>
No spoilers if you've seen the trailer (oh and the trailer really is
one of those where if you've seen it, then you've seen all the best
bits).

Criminal on paper looks like a safe bet, it's produced by super 'B'
movie producer Avi Lerner (Olympus/London has fallen, Expendables) has
an A list cast and a much worn premise, along the lines of Face Off or
Ryan Reynolds lukewarm thriller from 2015 Self/less, involving
body/mind swap sci-fi, while being set in a present day surrounding.

The premise, Reynolds young spy has his memory's implanted into Kevin
Costners gruff, violent criminal by Dr Tommy Lee Jones, overseen by
mostly shouty Spy boss Gary Oldman, to stop some bad men doing bad
things with hacking and missiles. Costner's criminal escapes and goes
on a bit of a rampage through London whilst also wrestling his own
violent nature against Reynolds softer character traits seeping through
(so basically he's got a bit of a split personality going on).

In other words it's a silly high concept plot line to effectively have
Costner run around a city, beat up some bad guys, get into shoot outs,
chases and save the day.

He also along the way tracks down Gal Gadot who is Reynolds wife, and
by far the best at delivering anything near a believable character,
followed by Tommy Lee Jones (in a very restrained role) in a very mixed
bag of a movie.

The film was made for around 30 million dollars, so don't expect much
big blockbuster action, although the few car chases and explosions
there are, are done decently, the film still at times feels quite
cheap. The pace is a little off as well as its a bit of a slog and
feels longer than it should at times.

In terms of tone it's violent, full of bad language, and seems to think
both of those pass as humour, they don't in the context they are used
in this film and are frankly pretty misjudged.

The performances vary, by far the worst being Gary Oldman who whilst
normally excellent simply feels like he's in another film altogether at
times, he literally shouts his scenes of dialogue at times when it
seems a quieter authority would have been better suited.

As for leading man Costner, he's playing a pretty unlikeable fella
here, so you would expect the filmmakers to try and inject some charm
for an audience to sympathize or grow some kind of emotional
attachment, but no Costner simply grunts and swears through most scenes
in a gruff lazy drool, he's watchable as always but doesn't have much
to work with here, though they do try to have him form a Bond with
mother and child later on its quite late in proceedings.

There's some good touches, Gal Gadot brings out a softer side of
Costner's character, there's a decent mix of Electro music and the film
score used is atmospheric, some of the visuals are decent, shots of
London for example and the action scenes whilst only short bursts are
clear to see and not confusing and finally there's the thriller plot
aspect of the story that plays like a standard spy/action thriller as
our (anti) hero must set out to stop the villains and save the girl.

In closing, mixed performances, misplaced serious tone with violent
outbursts of humour, some decent action but a bit of misguided film,
watchable, not terrible but quite frustrating given the fact there's a
better movie in there that could of got out.

3 out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings from Lithuania.

"Criminal" (2016) is kinda "been there saw that" type of flick -
nothing original, nothing super exciting, but as a one evening guilty
pleasure it does it's job, at least partly.

The cast is superb, and everyone did their OK jobs for the material,
except for Tommy Lee Jones - this is "you got to be kidding me" type of
performance - he goes with one facial expression during whole flick,
expression that says "what am i doing here? what is this thing?".

Overall, nice execution and OK story with some fun acting makes this
flick work for one boring evening. There is even some descent music in
it, the one in the van and the one at very end - closing song was
great.
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely loved this movie. I was on the edge of my seat the whole
way through, and I thought I could figure it all out, but I was never
able to see the twists and turns ahead of time. The thing I like best
about it is that the movie - despite all the action, and gory action at
that - is really all about people. People and personalities and knowing
good vs evil and wrong from right...and how a person can know wrong
from right, and then cherish that knowledge once one sees it. If it was
a book it would be a page turner.

I was disappointed that few people were in the theater, and I can only
speculate that most of the main actors are...what, too old to draw in
the crowd? If so, that's sad, because this one is really worth seeing.
Even buying a copy to keep.

And Kevin Costner deserves an Oscar.
<|_=00=_|>
Twenty years ago, a similar film called Face Off debuted, and while the
story seemed ridiculous, somehow it worked. Criminal is in the same
boat, as audiences have been kept away by the complicated plot, which
also seems to work quite well. The film starts with the brutal murder
of a CIA agent, who has a secret vital to national security in his
head. Out of desperation, the CIA turns to a doctor and an experimental
procedure, which will allow the agents memories to be transferred into
someone else's mind. The only problem is that the procedure requires a
certain type of mind, the mind of a psychopath. Against his will,
Jericho Stewart (Kevin Costner) is transferred to CIA headwaters and
given the agents memories, but will he become the good agent and help
save the world, or will he return to his murderous ways? Kevin Costner
stars and reminds us all of what a terrific actor he truly is. It's
hard to remember, considering that for the passed two decades he's done
mostly romantic garbage, that you couldn't pay me to sit through.
Costner returns to action as if he'd never been gone and does an
amazing job playing this deeply conflicted, flawed man. Paired with an
all-star cast, that features a ton of cameos, Criminal never slows down
and will have you on the edge of your seat the whole time. It's not
really the CIA crisis or the science fiction that keeps your interest
throughout, it's the conflict growing in Jericho Stewart's brain, as he
has essential turned into a person that is both good and evil. Yes, the
story is a bit complicated, but it is fairly easy to follow, and Kevin
Costner gives his best performance in at least a decade, making
Criminal well worth the price of admission.
<|_=00=_|>
I must admit it's been ages since I saw a movie that gave me the goose
bumps and this movie just gave me what I wanted. Kevin Costner, all
hands down, standing ovation and hats off! What a performance??!!!
Costner was just unbelievable from the beginning to the end. I don't
think anyone could've pulled off this role better than him. The camera
work, background music, dialogues etc.. are top notch! The movie is
more of an action thriller that keeps you curious from the alpha to
omega! 

More like Face off, just that here it's not the face but the mind
that's been swapped from a CIA operative to Costner. All I can say is
watch this movie at any cost cos Costner delivered what no man can do
to such perfection it's almost impossible to explain. 10/10 at any
cost!!
