
There's no other way to say it; Creed is a knockout. 

From start to finish, this film exhilarates and crackles with brilliant
on screen performances and masterfully directed fight sequences. It
wholeheartedly captures what was so brilliant about the first film: the
characters. Yes, I'll return to theaters to see the fights, but it's
the characters, particularly Rocky and Adonis that truly captivated me
from start to finish. 

I can't say enough great things about writer/director Ryan Coogler. The
way he masterfully captures the modern spirit of Philadelphia and the
visceral tension of standing toe-to-toe with a man who wants to see you
hit the ground is second to none. What stood out the most, however, was
his writing of Rocky Balboa. The subtle nuances that we love about the
Italian Stallion are effortlessly worked into the script and flow like
water from Sly's crooked mouth. Speaking of, the script would be for
naught if it weren't for the beautiful performances by Michael B.
Jordan and Sylvester Stallone. I'm not ashamed to say I was brought to
tears at various parts of this film. 

I'm just so happy to say that this film wasn't a disappointment. This
film exceeded my wildest hopes of a 7th Rocky installment and had me
feeling amped up for hours after the credits rolled. I can't wait to
see more from the talent involved in this film, and I proudly endorse
and recommend Creed to Rocky fans and film fans alike.
<|_=00=_|>
History has a strange way of repeating itself. 40 years ago, Rocky
Balboa became a household name and turned an unwanted actor into one of
the greatest success stories in Hollywood. The fact that Rocky (1976)
won three Academy Awards including Best Picture is of little importance
compared to the real life struggle behind the making of that film. For
Sylvester Stallone, it was a rags to riches story that mirrored his
real life struggles to make a decent and honest living. Cut from the
same cloth maybe, but Creed is much more than just the seventh
installment in the Rocky film franchise. As a no- holds-barred sports
drama, this is every bit an exceptional crowd pleaser with a lot of
heart, plenty of amusing jabs to the ribs, and an unexpected but
emotional haymaker to the gut. And a lot more.

Co-written by director Ryan Coogler, there's no doubt that Creed is a
passionate love letter to the first film, which in itself is a poetic
love story about fighting the good fight. Although boxing is the
central theme, and often frowned upon as a brutal blood-sport that
causes serious injuries, it's never been about the fight but more about
what you are fighting for. Coogler gets this spot-on when we are
introduced to teenager Adonis Johnson in juvenile detention. We soon
learn that Adonis is the illegitimate son of Apollo Creed, born shortly
after the latter's death in Rocky IV. Appolo's widow Mary Ann (Phylicia
Rashad) rescues young Adonis from what is certain to be a life on the
streets and raises him as her own in the plush Creed estate in Los
Angeles. Cut to present day and Adonis (Michael B. Jordan) is a
corporate executive half way up the ladder. It's a stark contrast to
Stallone's blue collar stiff in the first film, but this is where both
films converge. Like Rocky, Adonis (calling himself Donnie) knows he is
destined for something else, so heads to Philadelphia to meet his late
father's rival turned best friend.

The meeting with Rocky is one of several great moments in the film
while also serving as a nostalgic homecoming occasion for every fan of
the franchise. It's a fascinating intersection of the past but none
better than the fact that in many ways, Creed is an inverted mirror
image of Rocky. And before sending this film off on its own pulsating
trajectory, Coogler reveals a full hand of spades. One of which is the
legacy Rocky bestows on Donnie, and in essence, Stallone handing over
the franchise baton to Jordan. We may not realize this at first and
that's because we are already smitten by the father-son relationship
developing between Donnie and Rocky. Their character study is the most
significant aspect of this film. Donnie has always been an orphan and
the reason why he never took on his father's name is an emotional
revelation. Who he is and why he wants to become a professional boxer
is his darkest secret.

Both equally emotive and with comic interruptions, Jordan and Stallone
deliver impressive performances. Stallone in particular gives what has
to be his career best performance since Copland, and if this is his
franchise swan song (owing to a devastating but befitting plot device)
that's all the more reason why this film must be seen. But as they say,
the show must go on and Jordan is more than capable of shouldering
future films under the Creed banner. And with the inclusion of Philly
local Bianca (Tessa Thompson), Donnie's neighbor and love interest,
future sequels look to be set in Rocky's beloved hometown.

Onto the production quality and it suffices to say that Creed has THE
best technical aspects in the franchise, including spectacular fight
choreography, astounding cinematography in the ring and around
Philadelphia, and an upbeat hip-hop soundtrack fused with the original
score from previous films. The only real letdown comes from Donnie's
main opponent (Real life professional boxer Tony Bellew) who isn't as
antagonistic as you would expect, given the villainous ferocity from
Clubber Lang (Rocky III) and the evil Ivan Drago (Rocky IV). But that's
a minor blemish to an overall outstanding film made with grit,
substance and style. At its best, Creed is a very intimate film for
fans and newcomers and an undisputed knockout for 2015.
<|_=00=_|>
Ryan Coogler's Creed delivers on everything that a great boxing film
should, and represents a full return to form for Rocky. Directed by
superstar in the making Ryan Coogler, and starring powerful
performances from Michael B. Jordan and Sylvester Stallone the film is
amazing. Creed is exhilarating, beautifully acted, while honoring the
previous Rocky films lovingly. The film may be a little too familiar at
times, but at least approaches it's overused plot lines with a
different take.

From the opening scene the film captures your attention, showing us a
glimpse into who this character is "a fighter." The film remains an
exhilarating journey with this character, who is easy to connect with.
As the film progresses, Coogler mixes old techniques like the famous
Rocky slow motion sequences, with newer (less used) techniques like
very intimate fight sequences, where the camera helps the viewer feel
like they're standing in the ring. The film will draw you in from the
moment it starts, to the moment it ends.

One reason the film is so exhilarating is the terrific acting of
Michael B. Jordan, who leads this journey. Once again teaming up with
director Ryan Coogler Jordan anchors the film, and in the process
creates a relatable, and human main character. On this note, after
seeing "Creed" and "Fruitvale Station" I would be willing to make the
bold statement that I think Ryan Coogler is on his way to becoming the
next Scorsese. All of this being said what may be even more satisfying
is seeing Sylvester Stallone return to form as Rocky Balboa.

Some may criticize the movie for not bringing a lot of original plot
lines to the movie, they would be right. However, while not very
original the film handles these plot lines from a different
perspective. No longer are we watching the nobody rising up against the
odds, now we see a man trying to get out of the larger than life
shadows of a man he never knew. Those who love the Rocky films
recognize the slow motion moments in almost every film, and the iconic
way the boxing matches were choreographed. Creed departs from the
overuse of slow motion and more adapts the fight choreography of Raging
Bull, while still mixing the essence of the Rocky fight scenes. 

The way Coogler mixes old with new in many different ways helps make
the whole film feel like the story it's telling. Coogler captures the
tone of the older Rocky films, while also making a film distinctly
different. Michael B. Jordan and Sylvester Stallone deliver, and Creed
ends up being exactly what fans hoped it would be. In the end if you
have the time go see Creed, it's a terrific 2 hours to spend.
<|_=00=_|>
Geez, I wanted to like this movie. I love the Rocky saga, and I was
intrigued by the idea of introducing Apollo Creed's son as the new
protagonist. And once the film started getting rave reviews, I got
*really* pumped to see it.

Unfortunately, I feel like I saw a different movie from everyone else.
Sure, "Creed" has some good acting and a good heart, and it's somewhat
respectful to the Rocky legacy. But, drat it, this film is really just
a lazy remake of the first Rocky film, with Adonis Creed in Rocky's
role and Rocky in Mickey's role. 

Worse than that - "Creed" rips off literally every preceding Rocky
movie. It contains not a single original idea. Indeed, I recognized
every scene - the illness subplot is recycled from "Rocky II," the
boring office job material was previously seen in "Rocky Balboa," the
training montage was in...well, all the old ones...and so on. Just
changing the protagonist isn't enough to make this ancient material
feel fresh.

There were some opportunities to explore new directions, but the
filmmakers squandered most of them. For example, the beginning of the
film builds up Mary Anne Creed (Phylicia Rashad) as a compelling new
character - but then she gets dropped like a hot potato about 1/4 of
the way through the movie. And Adonis Creed's potentially interesting
romance with Bianca (Tessa Thompson) develops in a very clich√©d
fashion; all Creed ever does is lie to Bianca or spoil things for her,
yet somehow she loves him anyway. Why?

Even their "meet cute" scene didn't work for me. Bianca wakes Creed up
by blasting music in their apartment building at 3:00 AM - which in a
movie is charming behavior, but in real life would be incredibly
annoying. Somehow, Creed is the only person in the building who comes
to complain. Yeah, right.

On a more depressing note, I really don't like what the film does to
Rocky's character. If you thought Rocky was a sad old man in "Rocky
Balboa," you ain't seen nothing yet. The Rocky in this movie has given
up on life, and that's not easy to watch. At least in "Rocky Balboa,"
we got to see Rocky rebuilding his life after losing Adrian, by drawing
closer to his son and developing a friendship with Little Marie. But in
this movie, his son and Little Marie are gone, and Rocky is
just...waiting' on death. Ugh, how bleak. And I guess I'm supposed to
believe that Rocky's forced, chemistry-free friendship with Adonis
Creed gives him a reason to live again. Yikes.

I'm not sure why the critics are so into this movie - usually, they
vilify sentimental, lazy remakes like this. I think perhaps they were
really jazzed that Ryan Coogler of "Fruitvale Station" fame directed
it. All I can say is, I hope "Fruitvale Station" is better than this.
"Creed" is as unoriginal as a Star Wars movie about blowing up the
Death Star. Worse yet, it reminded me of the inevitable passage of time
in a sort of downer way. Yeah, I think I'll just pretend it doesn't
exist, and toss it in the same bin with other passing-the-torch films
like "Star Trek: Generations" and "Batman Forever." It's a better film
than those, true, but no less of a drag.
<|_=00=_|>
Milking the franchise for everything it's got, Sylvester Stallone
returns as Rocky Balboa in the 7th installment in the series. This
time, he's smart enough to know he's too old to get into the ring, so
he gets some new blood with a familiar name.

Micheal B. Jordan plays Adonis(perfect name), a man who was in his
mother's womb while his father, the legendary Apollo Creed got his ass
handed to him in the 4th Rocky. With the same passion to fight as his
father, he seeks out Apollo's old rival and best friend the Italian
Stallion to teach him the skills to reclaim his legacy and become a new
legend.

Like a good boxing movie should, Creed has heart. I'm such of fan of
Micheal B. Jordan. He's got the charm and talent to become a movie star
and Creed proves he's leading man material.

And much respect to Sly, who as an aged Rocky, is in the same spot as
once franchise regulars, Micky and Paulie. It's humbling for a movie
star to take a step back and let Jordan drive the vehicle in front of
the camera, and Ryan Coogler sit in the director's chair and pen the
flick, but obviously Sly cares about this cow and sought out the very
best to make it the very best. Stallone also gave a performance of a
lifetime worthy of an Oscar nod for supporting actor. He is Rocky, and
watching him on the screen with Jordan was incredible cinema.

And the action in this movie was amazing. Some of the greatest battles
in cinematic boxing are happening in Creed. We are so close to the
action you can feel every hit. Also have to comment on Jordan's boxing
skills. Creed, does an excellent job with showing a boxer going from
having raw talent, to becoming a champion.

Definitely a worth wild boxing movie to see, and I think the best Rocky
film since number two.
<|_=00=_|>
How any idiot could have the audacity to rate this movie higher than
the original rocky is so beyond baffling I have no words for my
displeasure with IMDb. creed is a predictable boxing movie with
potential for a good movie, but is ultimately diminished by a boring
plot line, a lack of special moments, and epic build up that all the
great rocky movies had. The training scene was boring the build up was
bad the plot was un realistic. not to mention they tarnished the legacy
of a great movie character in apollo creed by having an affair with his
wife, although it is necessary for the plot of the movie I don't agree
with putting the great apollo creed in that light, especially since the
rest of the movie everyone talks about him as this amazing man, how are
non die hard rocky fans supposed to buy that? a few other issues, why
did they turn Mickey's gym into the "bad guy" gym? shouldn't he have
started in a new retro gym and came to rocky to train and he took him
to Mickey's gym? That would have given all rocky fans a goose bump
moment instead they were left with nothing. the only real shocker about
this movie and (spoiler alert) is giving rocky cancer, that was
probably the most intriguing part of the whole story. Also the build up
of the leading couple was bad, i felt no connection to the two outside
of the girl having that hearing problem there was nothing interesting
about them. Finally the training scene was so stupid having all those
guys do wheele's around him as he ran was so weird and ruined the
entire scene. The fighting scenes were much more realistic and well
choreographed compared to all the other rocky's which was this movies
only really well done part, the ending of the fight is to a rocky fan,
too predictable, it was great in rocky 1 and it was a fitting end to
rocky 6, but makes no sense here and ended with the viewers questioning
what next? instead of riding off into the sunset. the acting was solid
by everyone involved but the writing was too corny to over come for the
most part. a C-level movie at best
<|_=00=_|>
First off let me say that I have been a life long Rocky fan. With that
being said I went into this film very cautious as almost the entire
cast and crew were brand new. The trailers looked good, but today a
good trailer is not necessarily an indicator of a good film. Sylvester
Stallone killed it as a much older and more breakable Rocky. Michael B.
Jordan's performance was as good if not better than Sly's. I think that
from this day forward anytime I see Jordan, I will think of him as
Creed and not whatever character he is playing. The story was
engrossing and well thought out. The film pays a great amount of
respect to the Rocky films while at the same time carving out it's own
place in boxing film history. Honestly I have no idea how accessible
this film would be to someone who's never seen a Rocky film, but I
think the way the story flows it wouldn't be too much of an issue.
Again, highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
The 7th (and hopefully last) movie of the Rocky franchise seems to be
considered the best after the original by the critics but don't believe
the hype cause it's merely disappointing. The movie on the surface
tries to go to a different direction exploiting all underground
stereotypes. The hero is a young black that listens to hip hop. Rocky
has retired and manages his wife's Italian restaurant. The biker gangs
of Philadelphia support them. The young fellow is in war with his last
name, Creed, and what that represents. The easily foreseen screenplay
includes amped-up training sequences and climates to a title fight with
an absurd number of punches landed in every round. Stallone's character
suffers from (spoiler alert) cancer and there you have a golden globe
for him as well an Oscar nomination (wtf?) for best performance in a
supporting role. Stallone getting an Oscar sounds like the academy is
trolling us. The movie is extremely overrated (8.0 in IMDb, 94% in
rotten tomatoes) but even for a Rocky fan (as I am) it's extremely
predictable and completely lacks emotion.

Grade: C- (D if you are not a Rocky fan)
<|_=00=_|>
This HAS to be the year of nostalgia with the Original Star Wars
trilogy remake, the Return to Jurassic Park Reboot and the memory of
1960's Bond in Spectre. But, the one I never asked for, nor anyone
really needed, was to see Rocky XXXVIII.

But¬Ösince so many people kept asking my opinion on it and how many rave
reviews I've heard that might equate Oscar buzz, I decided to check it
out. I am sorry I did.

Not that the movie's ineptly made, it's just an incredible retread of
countless boxing movies before it. Hell, it even played homage to all
the previous Rocky training montages before it¬Öand repeatedly. Over and
over. 

Half way through I was ready to give up with the extreme number of
clich√©s and unoriginal ideas/paths, but figured the second half HAS to
be better since so many people loved it so much.

Nope. The second half was just as dull and the same old story. In fact,
once the climax hit ¬ñ the obligatory finale in any of these boxing
movies ¬ñ I had completely tuned out. Not only did I know how it would
pan out, I didn't care one bit.

This movie had one singular fresh idea (son of former boxing champ in
the Rocky series, Apollo Creed, is introduced) but every single other
minute was unoriginal and predictable from six scenes leading up. It
was so by the numbers, it's a wonder anyone even cared to even mention
the movie to me. I wish someone would tell me how this movie is so
great and stands out from every other boxing film. 

Okay, the lead, Michael B. Jordan was decent, but he was just playing
his role in this "should've been made-for-Lifetime-TV movie." Sylvester
Stallone has reinvented himself many, many years ago, as an aging
action star, and now he's completely beyond that. It's getting old and
perhaps it's time, Sly¬Ö

I guess if you're heavily into boxing, boxing movies AND just want to
see the exact same movie you've seen countless times before, you might
like it. Otherwise, it's an extreme waste of more than two hours.
<|_=00=_|>
Although young Michael B. Jordan has the title role in Creed the film
really belongs to Sylvester Stallone. Sly joins an exclusive club of
players like Bing Crosby, Paul Newman, and Al Pacino who got two Oscar
nominations for playing the same role. In the case of Sly and Newman
both aged naturally into the parts of Rocky Balboa and Eddie Felson.
It's hard to believe that it has been 39 years since Stallone debuted
Rocky Balboa. It's also 39 years between the nominations that Stallone
got for Best Actor for Rocky and Best Supporting Actor for Creed.

But between that there have been several Rocky films over the years as
Sly has developed more facets to the fighting Mr. Balboa of
Philadelphia than I'm sure he even thought of when he debuted Rocky. It
all really comes together with Creed.

But as for the story it seems that back when Apollo Creed was killed in
that fight with that Russian steroid machine Dolph Lundgren in Rocky IV
he had a dalliance that resulted in a post mortem birth of an
illegitimate son who grew up to be Michael B. Jordan, character name of
Adonis Johnson. Apollo's widow Phyllis Rashad took him out of foster
care as his natural mother had died and raised him.

Jordan has an interesting dichotomy to deal with. He's his father's son
and wants to make it in the fight game, but on his own as Adonis
Johnson. He seeks his father's old friend and rival Rocky Balboa as a
mentor and Rocky trains him for a title shot at the light heavyweight
championship. 

Rocky Balboa is not the most articulate movie hero ever developed, but
he sure imparts a lot of wisdom to Jordan. Those scenes with Jordan are
what got Sly Stallone that second Oscar nomination. Also Rocky has some
personal crises of his own to deal with. These guys are of incalculable
help to each other.

I really loved this film and how Stallone developed Rocky to this
point. Like fine wine, Rocky gets better with age.
