
The acting is good, the chemistry between the leads is effective, the
evocations of village life are beautiful, the panoramic views of
Ukraine are splendid, the music is beautiful, the subject is
importantand yet, Bitter Harvest does heart-breaking disservice to
those who perished in the Holodomor. Trying to cover political history
from the death of the Tsar announced in one scene (evidently in 1918)
to the famine itself (1932-3), while the romantic drama seems to take
only a couple of years, blurs and trivializes history. The Hollywood
hijinks and impossible escapes caricature the real conditions from
which there was no escape. A few peasants standing in the fog with
make-up circles under their eyes belittles the piles of skeletal
corpses and bloated bodies of children that even one photograph of the
real Holodomor bears witness to. Showing a fleeting screen shot of an
article from the New York Times about the famine without clarifying
that it was written by the notorious Soviet falsifier Walter Duranty
(whom Malcolm Muggeridge called "the most dishonest journalist I have
ever encountered in my fifty years of journalism")  Duranty, a
famine-denier who stands as one of the reasons that the Holodomor is
not better known in the west  simply sickens. For all the money spent
on special effects (well done, by the way), the scope of the Holodomor
is utterly lost. And what would it have cost to hire a decent
screenwriter who could have reined in a plot that tries to do too much,
and who instead could have focused on some serious moral dilemma that
those impossible conditions spawned on the level of the individual? 

Yes, see the movie  there is worse Hollywood silliness out there, and
the good things listed at the top are worth seeing. But then, for
history's sake, go out and BUY A COPY of Harvest of Sorrow, by Robert
Conquest (who passed away recently, alas). It is the definitive history
of the Holodomor, and  in this time of 'alternative facts'the facts
needs to be set straight. https://www.amazon.com/Harvest-Sorrow-
Soviet-Collectivization-Terror-Famine/dp/0195051807
<|_=00=_|>
It is refreshing to see a historical movie about a genocidal event that
gets overlooked because it occurred just six years before World War 2
and the Holocaust. Personally, the movie did a good job at introducing
and exposing the audience to the Ukraine famine of 1933 and what these
people had to endure at the time. The movie has its flaws obviously but
does a good job introducing an event for the 1st time in the movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone knows about the Holocaust but few have even heard the word
Holodomor. It means 'death by starvation' and it refers to the
Ukrainian mass famine deliberately engineered by Joseph Stalin during
1932-33. Scholars label it as genocide and estimate between 7 and 10
million deaths were directly linked to Stalin's policy of de-populating
the Ukraine. More accurate numbers are not available because
long-standing Russian secrecy has only recently eased enough for the
story to be told. The film Bitter Harvest (2017) is the first feature
movie to tell this story using a dramatized romance that attempts to
humanise a story of inhumanity.

Set in 1930s Ukraine, the story commences with two young childhood
sweethearts in the film's only joyful moments. It quickly moves to
Joseph Stalin ordering a mass collectivisation program to confiscate
the Ukrainian harvests so he could feed his armies. Most chillingly, he
commandeers the grain seeds so famine was not only unavoidable but
planned. As their village faces an impending catastrophe, the now
grown-up young lovers, aspiring artist Yuri (Max Irons) and his
betrothed Natalka (Samantha Barks), must separate as he goes off to
join the anti-Bolsheviks in Kiev while she remains to care for her
ailing mother. Yuri believes in the power of painting and music to tell
the world what is happening but his art teachers in Kiev force him to
use art for revolutionary propaganda. As Stalin's forces deplete
Ukraine's rural food-stock, villagers are accused of hiding grain and
seed and failing to support the revolution. Wherever food is not
surrendered there are mass executions in front of mass graves, while
others starve to death in their homes and on the streets. Yuri is
captured and tortured, but escapes to be re-united with Natalka and
they eventually flee to Poland.

The detail of this love story pales against the bigger narrative of
Stalinist atrocities. While it is a conventional cinematic device to
convey a big story through a small lens, the relationship between the
two is critical. The two stories of this film are out of balance and
unevenly directed. The attempt to create an epic love story diminishes
the magnitude of the Holodomor and almost glosses over the scale of its
horrors. While the cinematography is excellent throughout, the acting
is wooden, melodramatic, and lacks authenticity. The clean-faced good
looks of the dual protagonists form a jarring contrast with the
caricatures of the Stalinist scar-faced ogres who are depicted as pure
evil. Turning archival images of starved bodies on streets and
decimated corpses in mass graves into background props to tell a love
story feels disrespectful. The film's lack of nuance and simplicity of
narrative is a lost opportunity for insight into this dark episode of
history.

It is difficult to be critical of a film that deals with such important
subject matter. In terms of the need for the bigger story to be told,
this film should be rated highly but as cinema it is seriously flawed.
On balance, the one and three-quarter hour investment to see this film
is worth the time as it is the only available narrative film of life at
the time of the Holodomor. As such, it is educational cinema that helps
us understand contemporary Russian-Ukraine politics. However, the
shelf-life of this film will be determined only by the time it takes
for a better film to be produced.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a heart wrenching movie, but one that tells a story that seems
few are aware of. Those too common apologists for communism need to see
this movie to get a dose of reality concerning the nature of that
system under Stalin and what it did to the people of the Ukraine. This
movie has excellent acting that removes all impediments to being fully
absorbed in the cinematic allusion. There are endless movies about
Hitler's Germany, but this single movie stands out as a message that
the Ukrainians' experience rivals the worst of what various groups
suffered under the Nazis. The history from which this story is
extracted has been swept under the rug, as the telling of history is
controlled by the victors. Imagine how the atrocities of Hitler's
regime would have been painted away if Germany had won WW2. I take this
movie as an attempt to rectify this and bring awareness to the current
plight of the Ukrainian people as they continue to struggle against
Russian dominion. I think my own awareness was greatly expanded because
of the well executed visual imagery Bitter Harvest provided.Some seem
to dislike the romantic fiction aspect of the picture. I see it as a
mechanism to provide some shoes for the common man/woman to walk in so
as to be able to feel how it might have been if this had been our own
story.
<|_=00=_|>
The Holodomor in Ukraine, the genocidal famine planned by Stalin and
his commissars that killed millions in 1932-33, was a Soviet policy of
forced starvation and is a cruel little known period in the history of
the 20th century. Maybe it was too optimistic to try and cover the fall
of the Russian czar, WW1, the Bolshevik/Russian revolution, the death
of Lenin and the rise of Stalin and the genocidal famine in Ukraine, in
100 minutes. And then make all the horror of that period less terrible
with a hopeful love story. Too much horrible history in too little
time. However, someone had to try so kudos to the director for that
effort. That period of history was deeply cruel and it's hard to
imagine how else to make the story palatable. Visually, the movie is
terrific. The brutality in some scenes, although no doubt historically
accurate, is tough to watch. I thought the local commissar was very
effective in his cruelty, and in comparison, the Stalin figure almost
seemed like a lightweight. A number of the professional critic reviews
sound downright snarky. This isn't an easy move to watch or an easy
story to tell. And while there is plenty of room for suggestions of how
to improve, it is not a movie of no value as some wrote. The
accusations of exaggeration and melodrama are actually bizarre. I think
the famine and the horrors of communism, which my parents and
grandparents lived through, were no doubt much worse than depicted
here.
<|_=00=_|>
There ought to be more movies/documentaries about this horrific event
in Ukrainian history. The spirit of the people was not destroyed and
the traditions, language, heritage, spirit of Ukrainians is alive
today. Wish this movie was given a wider audience as the facts are a
reminder how much a nation has suffered and lost and continues to fight
back against Russia. The director did a wonderful job. A must see.
<|_=00=_|>
Bitter Harvest is the story of the Holodomor told through the eyes of
one family of peasant farmers.

I find that most "critics" are so full of themselves and talk about
esoteric crap that 99% of most movie goers to could care less about
that render such 'professional" reviews all but worthless.

The story is not about the Holodomor in its totality as the massive act
of genocide of the Ukrainian people but rather, it is the love story
about a young man in love with a girl from his village and the
destruction of their lives as a result of the Holodomor.

In this regard the movie does a fantastic job telling us the story of
their lives and the horrific struggles that ensue to just survive. The
only minor criticism I have is the romantic leads (Max Irons( Yuri )
and Samantha Barks (Natalka)) lack any real on screen chemistry which
makes their romantic scenes seem mildly contrived. The movie does a
good job of showing some of the horror perpetrated by Stalin's ruthless
starvation of the Ukrainian people. It does not delve deeply into the
Holodomor but rather tells the account though the eyes of Yuri and
Natalka. 

I found the moving to be very moving.
<|_=00=_|>
The Holodomor, or Ukrainian Holocaust is a dark topic. It is a short
testimony to the power of the human spirit to survive even the most
cruel and vile regimes in History. Even with the murder of 10 million
Ukrainians by starvation in only 2 years, millions more survived. The
bonds of love, family and heritage were what saved this great people
from annihilation. Like the Holocaust in Germany only a decade later,
we must learn and NEVER FORGET!!!
<|_=00=_|>
The Communists starved the Ukrainians under Stalin. The New York Times
via Walter Duranty, covered up their crimes. Bitter Harvest is a
fictional action- drama based on one man's story that lived through it.
Now, finally a movie that is not about Hitler (national socialism) but
about the real threat America faces from the left- International
socialism ( communism) - still being covered up by the same lying
media. Walter Duranty is best known for his stringent denial of the
genocide of the Ukrainian people, known as Holodomor. Duranty refused
to report on the man-made famine that killed up to twelve million
people. Duranty also claimed other journalists who reported the truth
of the USSR, such as Malcolm Muggeridge and Gareth Jones, were liars.
Muggeridge went on to call Duranty "the greatest liar I have met in
journalism." Some of Duranty's most well known lies and falsehoods
about Holodomor are: "There is no famine or actual starvation nor is
there likely to be." --New York Times, Nov. 15, 1931, page 1 "Any
report of a famine in Russia is today an exaggeration or malignant
propaganda." --New York Times, August 23, 1933 "Enemies and foreign
critics can say what they please. Weaklings and despondents at home may
groan under the burden, but the youth and strength of the Russian
people is essentially at one with the Kremlin's program, believes it
worthwhile and supports it, however hard be the sledding." --New York
Times, December 9, 1932, page 6 "You can't make an omelet without
breaking eggs." --New York Times, May 14, 1933, page 18 "There is no
actual starvation or deaths from starvation but there is widespread
mortality from diseases due to malnutrition." --New York Times, March
31, 1933, page 13 Duranty also admitted privately that the genocide was
happening. Bruce S. Thornton wrote: Walter Duranty stands as perhaps
the quintessential fellow-traveler, killing news reports of famine and
writing that Ukrainians were "healthier and more cheerful" than he had
expected, and that markets were overflowing with foodthis at the
height of Stalin's slaughter of the kulaks.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film that should have been made decades ago but it never
could be made. Hollywood is always more than eager to make film after
film about the Holocaust which is no surprise since Hollywood is
almost entirely Jewish but they always shy away from movies depicting
the horrors of communism, even when it greatly surpasses the Holocaust
which should be no surprise either to anyone who knows (((Who))) the
communists in the soviet union really were. As the Nobel Prize winning
author of The Gulag Archipelago, Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, wrote ""You
must understand. The leading Bolsheviks who took over Russia were not
Russians. They hated Russians. They hated Christians. Driven by ethnic
hatred they tortured slaughtered millions of Russians without a shred
of human remorse. The October Revolution was not what you call in
America the 'Russian Revolution.' It was an invasion and conquest over
the Russian people. More of my countrymen suffered horrific crimes at
their bloodstained hands than any people or nation ever suffered in the
entirety of human history. It cannot be understated. Bolshevism was the
greatest human slaughter of all time. The fact that most of the world
is ignorant of this reality is proof that the global media itself is in
the hands of the perpetrators." 85% of commisars in the Soviet Union
were Jewish, Lenin and Trotsky included, Under Stalin Anti-semitism was
punished by death and Jews alone had religious freedom in the Soviet
Union(along with their own state, the Jewish autonomous oblast), while
this film does not portray that truth it doesn't shy away from the
repression of Christianity under the Jewish Bolsheviks as well as the
wholesale murder they perpetrated against European christians in the
name of their utopian state(where jews alone would be allowed to
practice their religion and Christianity was to be abolished entirely).
For a film with a 20 million dollar budget they manage to create an
emotional and believable story. There was only one shot in the entire
movie which looked cheap and it only lasted about 10 seconds, a shot of
Yuri shooting at a rabbit, everything else looked great. The acting was
pretty good too. They also managed to show an overlooked fact of
communism, disgusting surrealist art and art which depicts communism as
glorious, any art that was realistic was to be replaced with surrealist
art, the only realist art was to represent the power of the regime,
everything else had to be ugly and unrealistic. 

Do yourself a favor and buy or rent this movie, both because it's worth
watching and because we need to support independent anti-communist
films which will never be made in a culture dominated by Jewish
communists that hate Christianity, europeans and all things beautiful
and true.
