
The Boy Next Door is the latest film that January of 2015 has to offer
and man oh man does this film scream January. It doesn't just scream
January, it screams out multiple other adjectives to describe this
useless, idiotic, and ridiculous film. The Boy Next Door pits a recent
divorceè in a torrid affair with the next door neighbor who happens to
be crazy and you could probably tell how this film is going to go due
to its overtly "let's not even try anymore" attitude. Let's start off
with the good...there is none. Now for the bad, there's a ton. Number
one, I think that anyone with half a brain could probably realize that
this is a horrible film. It is paced terribly, it has the dialog of a
cheesy Lifetime movie from the nineties and it has Jennifer Lopez in
her worst role to date. The film's 90 or so minute runtime even feels
too long as we wallow in classic stalker movie clichés for its
duration. It runs through the classic genre thrills from Fatal
Attraction, Basic Instinct, The Hand that Rocks the Cradle and many
more and uses absolutely nothing with it. The biggest issue with this
film isn't the terrible plot, it isn't the half baked thrills, it is
the dialog. The dialog in this film sounds like the first draft of an
episode of Guiding Light. There's no flavor to it, thus letting the
actors turn in bland and listless performances. For a film that is
listed as a suspense thriller, there is no suspense and zero thrills.
Quite honestly, the only thing that was thrilling in this film were the
end credits. Yes, this film is that bad and it stands up pretty high on
the list of terrible films I've seen. It fits nice and snug between
Troll 2 and Gigli.
<|_=00=_|>
This erotic thriller starring Jennifer Lopez is definitely one of the
worst movies I have seen in recent history. Some movies can be panned
critics and still be somewhat entertaining. This movie is NOT one of
them. The acting was horrendous (especially at the end), the plot was
absolutely cheesy, and the whole script was pretty much chaos. This
film was like a rip-off of movies like Fatal Attraction or American
Psycho.

Jennifer Lopez plays Claire, a mother who is dealing with marriage
problems and is a teaches English at a high school. Noah, a young man
in his late teens, moves next door and befriends her son, Kevin. After
having a sexual encounter with her, Noah grows an obsessive
relationship with her and begins exhibiting violent behavior such as
brutally beating another student and turning Kevin away from his
father. 

Just about every scene in the movie was predictable. There were no
elements of surprise whatsoever, there wasn't even anything remotely
scary about it. Most of what we get is nude shots of Jennifer's Lopez's
body and gratuitous sex scenes. The acting was so awful that it would
make you laugh. The fight scene were unrealistic and looked as if the
actors didn't know what they were doing and had to constantly had be
directed by the camera man.

I do not recommend this movie to anyone unless they are a die hard
Jennifer Lopez fan.
<|_=00=_|>
My friend and I had a blast at this movie last Friday, but not for the
reason you would expect. We literally laughed through the entire film -
and what was even more fun was that the entire theater was laughing,
too. The dialogue and plot were so thin and badly written, and the
intense scenes so implausible, that it was hilarious. As the movie
ended, I think all of us sat staring at the screen wondering if that
really was the ending - that the credits were about to prove it was all
over - that me, my friend, and the entire theater, cracked up all over
again.

So, I have absolutely no regrets about paying money to see it. It was
fun in its own right.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never watched such a stupid movie! It was good as it started and
usually movies build a character and the plot thickens but this movie
didn't hit those points. Emotions are too extreme and random and so are
the scenes. There is strange behavior in every scene which makes it
laughable. Our whole row just laughed at this movie! There are a few
suspenseful scenes but they die out quick with a stupid follow up
scene. Also Jennifer lopez's hair looked awful! The color and cut was
just plain ugly. She also seemed to be trying so hard to be sexy and
uncomfortable with it. She could have embraced her sexuality a bit more
so the boy being obsessed with her would have made more sense.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a good movie by any stretch of the imagination. The plot is
trite, the characters thinly drawn, the dialogue inane and the acting
is more wooden than Pinocchio. Clearly it's just a vanity project for
Jennifer Lopez.

There are some very strange elements that occur during the movie which
lead me to think that perhaps a lot of content was left on the cutting
room floor. Heck, if they wanted to create quality I think they should
have left the whole movie on the floor! This film bills itself as an
erotic thriller...Trust me, there's nothing erotic or thrilling about
this film.

All that said though, I almost died of laughter watching this, and for
that, I'm giving it two out of ten stars. If you want to have a good
laugh, either with friends or by yourself, you could do worse than 'THE
BOY NEXT DOOR'.
<|_=00=_|>
It's funny though, the movie "The Girl Next Door" is about a beautiful
and innocent closet porn star that maybe wants to get out of the
business. *This is who men dream they are living next to.* 

And "The Boy Next Door" is about a handsome young boy that is obsessed
with this lady and goes nuts when she cuts him off because he wants her
so bad. *This is who women dream they are living next to.*

Hilarious. People are so dumb. Gotta love em. And that, my friends, is
about the only funny or interesting thing you'll find in either of
these movies. Enjoy...or don't. I wouldn't waste my time or money if I
were you.
<|_=00=_|>
Jennifer Lopez isn't a bad actress, but she is so miscast so miserably
as a high school English teacher in "The Boy Next Door" that not even a
seasoned Hollywood helmer like Rob Cohen can salvage this substandard
stalker saga. Although he has directed hits like "The Fast and the
Furious" and "xXx" as well as above-average epics like "Daylight,"
"Stealth," and "Alex Cross," Cohen appears appallingly out of his
element with this formulaic fiasco. Not only does the tawdry "The Boy
Next Door" miscast Lopez, but also it makes Ryan Guzman, John Corbett,
and Hill Harper look just as inapt. Whatever Lopez and the other twelve
producers on this picture admired about rookie writer Barbara Curry's
screenplay must have been either altered or didn't survive the final
cut. Although she received an MFA in scriptwriting from UCLA, Curry
should have kept her old day job. She spent ten years as an Assistant
U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles where she toiled in the Major Violent
Crimes Unit and handled federal cases involving murder-for-hire, prison
murder, racketeering, arson, kidnapping, and bank robbery. Reportedly,
Curry taught criminal procedure at FBI Headquarters in Quantico,
Virginia, and pushed for trial advocacy at the U.S Justice Department
in Washington, D.C. In time perhaps, Curry might brush up on her
storytelling skills and become a better writer. "The Boy Next Door" is
neither suspenseful nor surprising, unless you've never seen a single
stalker movie. Quite often, our sexy heroine, her oblivious colleagues,
and her unsuspecting kin do some really stupid moves that make this
movie appear more like a comedy than a drama. The best thing about this
predictable pabulum is that it clocks in at a minimal 91 minutes.
Meanwhile, "The Boy Next Door" has sold enough tickets to qualify as a
"hit." Produced for a paltry $ 4 million, this mediocre crime melodrama
has coined more than $20 million at the box office box, an amount
sufficient to pay off its budget as well as its advertising.

Lopez plays English teacher Claire Peterson who teaches classic
literature, specifically "The Odyssey" and "The Iliad," at a California
state public high school. Our heroine looks far too incendiary for her
own good. Mind you, I'm not saying high school English teachers cannot
look stunning, but Lopez strains credibility with some of her wardrobe.
As the action unfolds, Claire has separated from her philandering
husband, Garrett Peterson (John Corbett of "My Big Fat Greek Wedding"),
who careens around in muscle cars and had an affair with his secretary.
Since you never get a glimpse of the other gal, you have to wonder how
she compared with Claire. Presumably, Garrett was probably taking
advantage of his lowly employee because she was younger than Claire.
Meantime, Claire's teenage son, Kevin (Ian Nelson of "The Hunger
Games"), suffers from asthma and allergies when bullies aren't
badgering him. The senior citizen next door to Claire (Jack Wallace of
"Boogie Nights") has just taken in his handsome, but orphaned, 19-year
nephew, Noah Sandborn (an improbable 27-year old Ryan Guzman of "Step
Up Revolution"), whose own dad died in a mysterious car crash. Hint,
hint! Claire encounters this charming Abercrombie & Fitch pin-up boy
while she is wrestling with a cranky garage door. One weekend, while
Garrett and Kevin are away on a fishing trip, Claire accompanies her
best friend and colleague, High School Vice Principal Vicky Lansing
(Kristin Chenoweth of "Strange Magic"), on a blind date from Hell. The
well-meaning Vicky has set Claire up with a gruff anti-intellectual
guy. After she walks out on this loser, our distressed heroine finds
herself face to face with charismatic Noah. During a vulnerable moment,
Claire abandons her morals as easily as Noah disposes of her lingerie.
Lopez displays little more than her shapely thighs while Guzman keeps
her breasts discreetly covered with his groping paws. The morning after
when he awakens her with orange juice and coffee, Noah cannot imagine
why Claire would be racked with recriminations. Complicating matters
even more, Noah is a transfer student who has enrolled in classes at
the same high school where Claire teaches. Lusting after her, Noah
decides to pursue Claire, but she rebuffs his advances. Eventually,
Noah turns psychotic. Initially, he hacks into Claire's e-mail account
and obtains permission from Principal Edward Warren (Hill Harper of
CBS-TV's "CSI: New York") to enroll in her class with her apparent
approval. Similarly, Noah befriends Kevin, teaches him how to box, and
tries to turn him against Garrett who wants desperately to patch up his
marriage with Claire. In a burst of rage, Noah pulverizes one of
Kevin's bullies, and Vicky expels Noah. Meantime, Vicky uncovers some
disturbing information about Noah, and she finds herself on the wrong
end of his rage. Ultimately, Noah horrifies Claire with news that he
made a video of their sex act and threatens to expose her! At this
point, you're liable to laugh your head hysterically off rather than
gnaw your fingernails in dread.

Comparatively, "The Boy Next Door" reminded me of "Fatal Attraction,"
"Single White Female," "The Hand That Rocks the Cradle," "Swimfan," and
"Basic Instinct." In a "Cosmopolitan" magazine interview, Curry said
she drew inspiration from a real-life incident involving a high school
teacher who had seduced one of her underage students. Sadly, the
relationship between Claire and Noah, especially their voyeur episodes,
is so outrageous that you cannot take the drama seriously. Cohen claims
he wanted to craft the ultimate erotic thriller along the lines of
those previously mentioned movies, but he embroiders clichés. Some of
the action scenes, particularly a runaway car episode, provide only a
momentary relief from the Harlequin-like soap opera shenanigans. Cohen
generates a modicum of suspense in the tradition of "Rear Window" when
Claire searches Noah's man cave for the sex video. Most of the time,
however, you'll felt insulted by the idiotic antics of these clueless
cretins. "The Boy Next Door" isn't a third as exciting as last year's
"No Good Deed."
<|_=00=_|>
Opens with two characters chatting like it's halfway through, and you
better pay attention Jennifer Lopez is married or, separated from a
polite, cheating husband and her son is going on a weekend trip with
dad 

And what's really important is J-Lo's Claire Peterson will be alone for
a few days Well that's all it takes for a perfect looking
twenty-year-old named Noah (Ryan Guzman) to become more smitten with
his neighbor than Glenn Close was with Michael Douglas, or anyone else
in the Tryst-to-Stalker Genre 

Playing out like a Straight to Video throwaway, THE BOY NEXT DOOR has
every cliché in the book  or in this case, leaflet. Yet it's a
terrific film to laugh at, exhibiting howling camp value as Noah's
transformation from friendly alpha male bonding with Claire's passive
son, flirtatious model undressing near an open window, steamy bedroom
partner into a vicious psychopath happens before Lopez has time to
blink, or the audience can finish half their popcorn.

And while his attraction is believable since she looks good enough to
lust after, the blinding fascination... from email hacking to picture
pasting to brake tampering to kidnapping... is completely far-fetched,
deleting any suspenseful development that could have made BOY a better,
more realistic film  but where's the fun in that? And yes, it is that
bad... Thank Goodness!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is really nothing we haven't seen before: A woman on the
brink of divorce has an affair with her younger next door neighbor and,
afterward, wants nothing more to do with the man. As a result, the
neighbor gets violent and stalks her.

It is a fast-pace thriller with steamy love scenes and quick action
sequences. However, the plot is predictable and the acting is sub-par
at best. For a movie called, "The Boy Next Door," there should be more
suspense and plot twists that lead up to the title role, rather than a
one-time encounter that basically reveals almost immediately who the
antagonist is.

It's not a entirely bad movie to pass the time with; however, you will
find much more suspenseful and captivating thriller than this one.

Grade C-
<|_=00=_|>
Of course, this is a bad movie. Yet, there are plenty of guilty
pleasures to behold here. When I say it's bad, I didn't say I didn't
enjoy it. I mean, there's a lot of potential going on. Unfortunately,
it leads to a bit disappointing finale. But, it is salvaged by an
amount of suspense before the ensuing chaos.

At first, J.Lo... why did she even bother signing on this? I thought
that this is too low even for her standards. But, later on, I think
that she's pretty committed on doing this role. So, I decided to lay
back and enjoy the ride.

Then, along came Ryan Guzman, as the so-called "Boy Next Door". Hmmm...
He did a pretty fine job. When the tension ratchets up, he looks
threatening convincingly, despite what critics say about his
performance.

The supporting casts are good as well. Kristin Chenoweth stood out for
me, adding comic relief and zing along the way.

My main criticism is the script. Not only it's a bit sloppy, almost
made-for-TV writing, but it falters in the end. There are some
characters' action including Lopez's, that's nonsensical and... stupid,
actually.

When it comes to nonsensical and stupid, I just wished they would close
it with being campy and over-the-top. It doesn't truly reached that
level and the result is only a half-baked mess.

But, all those flaws don't matter too much because Rob Cohen's
direction are superior than most of his movies, especially his last
offering "Alex Cross", although it's his fault too.

For a movie released in January, it's better than expected. But, for a
real nerve-wracking thriller, don't get your hopes up too high.

Just watch it for pure brainless entertainment without much to think
about. It's not that bad...
