
This movie from start to finish was nothing short of amazing. Very here
and now. Very real. Gugu and Nate Parker gives an exceptional
performance in their roles. Even though I come from a very different
life than Noni, I could relate to her feelings of not being seen or
heard. I found myself feeling sorry for Noni, but wanting her so
desperately to rise above all of it and find her own voice and embrace
herself. I so appreciate how Gugu caused me as the viewer to feel every
scene as if I am right there. I hope she continues to make great films.
She was amazing in "Belle" and she surely did not disappoint in this
one. Great job cast, writers, directors and producers of this film! I
definitely plan to add this one to my video library when it comes out
on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
With the low IMDb rating, pop culture and romance, I was thoroughly
expecting overused tropes, bad acting, and marginal writing. What I got
was the complete opposite. I am not a fan of pop culture or romance
movies but somehow these characters became very real for me.

In particular, I am impressed with the director's discipline. There are
so many overused tropes that could easily have dominated the screen
time. Instead, she hits her points and moves on.

The supporting cast was particularly impressive for their sheer
believability. Hollywood too often takes the liberty "it's only a
movie" or "it's Hollywood, we can totally do whatever". Instead, they
stayed true.

This movie will go in my Blu-Ray collection when it finally comes out.
The subtleties are impressive and worth revisiting. This is the second
movie with a primarily romantic focus to achieve that honor. The first
is True Romance.
<|_=00=_|>
I was at the world premiere today at the Toronto International Film
Festival and just wanted to say that I thought the movie was really
excellent. Definitely on par with the director's other works. It very
easily could have fallen into being a schmaltzy typical chick flick
love story type of movie but it doesn't do that. It is a fairly
predictable love story but the relationship between the 2 main
characters is great and feels authentic and emotionally truthful. They
had a pretty strong, palpable chemistry together. You could see a real
attraction between the two on screen and only adds to the intensity.
Minnie Driver was great as well as Noni's driving, determined mother
and manager doing everything she could to make her daughter a star. Not
really an Oscar movie but good solid directing and screenplay and
really great acting performances particularly from Driver, Gugu
Mbatha-Raw, and (the extremely handsome and delicious) Nate Parker.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw Beyond the Lights starring Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Nate Parker, and Minnie
Driver! "Noni" played by Raw grows-up with a dream to sing and when she
finally gets to super-stardom, dealing with the pressures of fame, her
Manager Mother "Macy Jean" played by Driver, and influences from the
Rap Music Industry puts her over the edge until she meets her savior
"Kaz" the cop played by Parker who puts her life back on track.

"Kaz" helps "Noni" retreat from her controlling manager mom, the
paparazzi, and music industry to take some time to reflect upon where
she came from until the very moment when her career took off. After a
long struggle with her self-image, being told what to do and how to do
it from her manager mother and record label, "Kaz" helps "Noni" gain
the courage she needs to develop her own thoughts and voice which
ultimately sets her free like a "Black Bird" to become the musical
artist she was meant to be, instead of what others wanted her to be.

My cinema score is 8/10! This Romantic drama Film is a great date-night
movie with so many important life messages regarding self-image, being
happy, love & success, so take your boo to go see it!
‪#‎maverickradio‬
<|_=00=_|>
"Do you want to be a runner up, or do you want to be a winner?"

Fifteen minutes into Beyond the Lights and I was about to dismiss Gina
Prince- Bythewood's film as yet another formulaic celebrity romance
trying to be this generation's The Bodyguard. But after the story and
the characters were introduced, I realized there was much more to the
simple premise. This is a character driven film and despite the
familiar premise the movie is carried by the wonderful performances
from the cast and their well written characters. Gina uses a familiar
tale but manages to give each character their very own identity and
that takes the story to unfamiliar dramatic territory avoiding the
common clichés found in modern romance movies. Bythewood made an impact
in 2000 with her feature film debut, Love & Basketball and she followed
the success of that movie with The Secret Life of Bees. Beyond the
Lights is her third feature film, and it made such an impact on me that
I want to see her two previous movies now. It's not easy to find
intelligent romantic films nowadays with strong performances, so that
makes me appreciate Beyond the Lights all that more for avoiding cheap
clichés and deciding to focus on the characters and giving them depth
instead of simply trying to deliver cheesy lines and force romantic
moments. Every character in this film could've very easily played a
stereotype, but Gina avoids it by giving each one of them their own
moment.

Noni (Gugu Mbatha-Raw) is a young and talented British R&B singer who
is on the verge of becoming an international super star thanks to her
collaborations with rapper Kid Culprit (Machine Gun Kelly) with whom
she shares a relationship with. On the night in which they win an
important music award for their hit single, Noni tries to commit
suicide by jumping off from the hotel balcony, but she's saved by the
police officer who was guarding her room. Kaz (Nate Parker) is an
honest cop who is trying to make a difference in his community and is
aspiring to be a politician by following the advice of his father,
Captain Nicol (Danny Glover), a well respected man in the police force.
After the balcony incident Noni's mother and agent, Macy Jean (Minnie
Driver) downplays the suicide attempt by telling the media that her
daughter was simply drunk and therefore almost fell over the balcony.
Kaz isn't happy about having to lie to the media, but he is more
concerned about Noni not trying to get help because it is evident that
the pressure has gotten to her, and her mother isn't helping by
downplaying the issue. He gets close to Noni, and it is evident that
the two have chemistry, but she doesn't seem like a good fit for his
political aspirations given the latest scandals she's been in and the
sexy image she's selling. At the same time he realizes that this isn't
who she really is and that her mother and recording label producers are
simply creating her image and not allowing her to have her own voice.
When he discovers who she truly is, the two become romantically
involved and the plot takes off from there. 

Minnie Driver's character could have easily been one dimensional
playing this mean and controlling mom/manager, but Gina avoids those
stereotypes and gives her more room to work with despite how easy it is
to dislike her for turning her daughter into this sex symbol product.
This is just one example of how Gina decides to direct this character
driven film giving each one a voice of their own. Another director
perhaps wouldn't of included those small moments or conversations where
we get a sense of why the character behaves in such a way. 

Nate Parker delivers a solid lead performance as this credible and
likable young man who is trying to make a difference in his community,
but it's Gugu who steals every scene she's in. At first she seems to be
playing a similar character to Rihanna, but once she finds her own
voice her character goes through an impressive transformation. She
gives an explosive and emotional performance and wins everyone over
with her wonderful voice. There is a scene where she sings a cappella
in an outdoor bar in Mexico that is breathtaking and gripping at the
same time. My only complaint is that the film does lose some of its
steam towards the end of the movie, but the time spent with each one of
these characters still made this a very enjoyable experience.

http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
The story focuses on Noni, an British female R&B singer of mixed race
parents who struggled against a heavier burden of competition with the
racial prejudice on her. Now all grown up, she has made it in the USA,
a famous and successful singer, now the girlfriend of a famous rapper.
But she feels she's only being taken advantages of and not being
considered as a person. After winning an award one night, she instead
tries to commit suicide by jumping from her apartment balcony. A police
officer Kaz, who was replacing a friend for a bodyguard detail, steps
in and helps her from falling. Although Kaz initially avoids Noni
because he was forced to lie at a subsequent press conference, they
eventually become close. Kaz convinces Noni to be more courageous and
stand up for herself, to have her boyfriend treat her better, and to
insist that her songs be included in her next album. She musters up
courage and softly breaks up with the rapper. Noni and Kaz then hook up
and become a couple.

But at a performance, the rapper comes on stage and humiliate Noni. Kaz
goes on stage and eventually punches him on camera. Kaz's father scolds
him for that due to it will damage Kaz's reputation for an upcoming
candidacy at an important office. Kaz ignores it and helps to smuggle
Noni out of the press' attention. They then go to have some time alone
down in Mexico. Noni really enjoys the situation where she's not known
and can roam freely without photographers following her. But her mother
finds their place. She convinces her to finish the album promo, despite
Kaz's disagreement. Noni goes back to attend a recording label meeting
about her album. She demands her songs to be put in it, to the
disapproval of the label. Noni then declares she resigns from the
label, also discharging her mother from the position of her manager.
She then goes back to to UK to perform. Kaz goes there and meets her in
the back- stage, where he confirms his love for her. Noni continues on
to her performance, singing her own new song instead of the one
requested on her. 

For me the story only has slightly less than adequate appeal to it in
overall. The story isn't that strong in total. Even the emotional parts
of it don't seem to hit the spot right. The background story is quite
moving, but development of Kaz's background and his dilemma between of
the position is quite strange. The rest of the other characters beside
the two main characters are also not really developed well. Noni's
mother has a significant portion to the story but we don't really see
much of her in substantial story screen time. The opposite happens to
Kaz's father, who has more than enough screen time despite his more
insignificant role in the story. 

Yes this movie can quite grasp the drama aspect that it targets. All
those emotional content are well built on the foundation of the racial
prejudice thing and even on the gender inequality thing later on. But
truthfully, that's just it. The romance that should be another nice
focus for this movie doesn't seem to be a good attention grabber. I
really think this movie should be developed even way more better before
it's realized. 

The acting overall falls slightly below my expectations. For such an
emotional aim of the story, the acting quality is not really that good.
Gugu Mbatha-Raw doesn't seem to realize that she has so much close-up
shots on her that she doesn't showcase a great variation in facial
expressions, even in the music video and stage performance scenes. Nate
Parker is as similar, his face is dominantly flat in all conditions of
the scenes. Having Minnie Driver and Danny Glover doesn't help at all
in raising the acting quality overall.

For me, a 5 out of 10 score is just enough for this movie. It sure can
be a better entertainment provided that the story development doesn't
just leave this undercooked tale like this and the direction can lift
the acting better.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing Gugu Mbatha-Raw's performance in "Belle" recently and now
viewing her rather dazzling screen charisma here, she would certainly
seem to be a rising star.

She gives a superb performance as Noni Jean, a skyrocketing musical
talent, living the fairy tale life of a superstar, being followed
everywhere by adoring fans and relentless paparazzi. However, despite
all the glitz and glamor, deep inside Noni is quite depressed and
unhappy.

Her every move, both in her personal and professional life, is being
controlled by her extremely domineering mother Macy. Minnie Driver is
terrific in the role of Macy, being totally believable. Noni is so down
that on the night she wins her first Billboard Award, she attempts
suicide off of a hotel balcony, before being saved at the last minute
by the police officer assigned for her security.

Nate Parker is also excellent here as the principled police officer Kaz
Nicol who saves her life. He's also dealing with a highly controlling
parent (Danny Glover), with his father planning out his life so he'll
eventually run for political office and have a career in that field.

Noni and Kaz will begin to build a bond, but can these two souls living
in two very different worlds overcome the pressures of their
controlling parents, the media, and record companies to form a lasting
relationship? Just a note for the viewers: there are a number of highly
provocative and suggestive dance routines, from the first scenes
onward, which have sexual connotations, plus one or two actual sex
scenes in the film which are not explicit.

The very talented filmmaker Gina Prince-Bythewood (The Secret Life of
Bees) ably handles the writing and direction here, and I really felt I
got a vivid feel of what it's like to be a rising superstar in that
environment.

This is not a perfect film by any means, but the strong acting,
appealing soundtrack, and a rousing and heart-felt finale win the day
here.
<|_=00=_|>
I had never heard of this movie before a colleague recommended it and
even then, had no intention of watching it. I was bored and watched it
and MY OH MY was I pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed it! I
thought it would be a cheesy movie but the story and actors were
extremely believable. The addition of realistic award show backdrops
added to the current condition of the music industry psyche. Soundtrack
was lovely and I enjoyed hearing a current Amel Larrieux jam during
such a touching scene. (Sidenote: Check out Ice Cream Every Day for
more Amel gems!)

I HIGHLY recommend this movie to anyone interested in a combination of
a love story and music. And if this helps, I wouldn't describe this as
a chick flick at all - it has a universal appeal to anyone who stays
current with the industry and knows how it can steal souls.
<|_=00=_|>
My feelings on this are basically just like every other person who saw
it. It does have some biting, realistic insight into just how cruel and
harsh the entertainment industry is, but the romance and the narrative
are quite predictable. I probably actually enjoyed it more than my
rating, but it's just way too formulaic and it's a shame when it
started off better and it could've just been something more. Gugu
Mbatha-Raw is really the best thing about it, delivering her all and
giving even her most cliché of scenes life and passion. She's very
charismatic and has a very strong screen presence, I hope she gets more
roles after this because she would certainly deserve it.
<|_=00=_|>
I had a chance to see the screening of Beyond the Lights a few weeks
ago in Tallahassee, Fl. This movie was a breath of fresh air. I haven't
seen a complete love story that I can relate to in one way or another.
This movie was very realistic and was very relate-able.

The movie walked you through Noni's life from the time she was a child
to the time she was an artist. It made you feel as if you were in that
moment with her. There were some parts of the movie that made you smile
and cheer and then the note so happy moments - all the emotions needed
when viewing a great movie.

The writer Gina Bythewood and Nate Parker were at the screening and
participated in a Questions and Answers session after the movie
screening. I really appreciate the interaction with the viewers and the
ability to answer every single question in great depth. I am still
impressed. Go out and support this movie. You will not be disappointed.
