
"Now You See Me" was a personal guilty pleasure of 2013, it was
absolutely unpretentious and unbelievable but it knew it was so and
with the help of a talented cast and a couple of good characters and
story beats it turned out as a fine time at the theater. Its sequel
starts out with the same unpretentious and fun vibe of the first only
to slowly escalate up to what becomes one of the most lifeless and
visually painful experiences of the year.

As I said the movie started out really fine, in the sense that it was
doing what I wanted it to do. Nobody should or would walk into this
film expecting the new "Heat", I just wanted to have some dumb fun,
with a self referential film that doesn't take anything seriously and
up to the fist two set-pieces of the film that's what I was getting.
The cast was working the best they could and the action felt fluent and
visually pleasing, there was a rhythm to it and a reason for it in
particular.

Yet, as soon as we start getting into this film's second act things
fall apart to a mind numbing degree and I mean that literally, my mind
went blank with the level of stupidity and inconsequentially of what
was going on, I watched this film in a state of trance where I couldn't
tell if I was dozing off or simply bored to death.

"Now You See Me 2" takes the levels of suspense of disbelief to a whole
new world where not even laughing at the film proves to be of any kind
of satisfaction, everything going on is just visual noise and other
than being filmed in the most uninteresting and unstylish way possible,
it has no momentum, no character, it's just there for the sake of
extravaganza and it keeps going on for unbelievable amounts of time and
it never proves to be any kind of pleasant.

And we haven't even taken into consideration the logistical
implications of what happens. It is just crazy. There is no grit of
grounding of actions, stuff just keeps happening on top of other stuff
and without any kind of character or story implications the film
becomes more of a showcase of dull visual tricks. Not to mention the
story twists it spices in which are preposterous to even think about
and sprinkled with silly clichés and dialogue that not even Ruffalo or
Freeman, two of the greatest actors, manage to make even passable.

I got a head ache from this movie, it was a terrible experience, I
don't recommend it and the shortness of my review is reflective of how
lost with words I am about it.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's the thing about 2013's "Now You See Me," I didn't hate it but I
wasn't completely wowed by it either. Mildly entertaining is how I'd
describe it. It's heist caper like Ocean's Eleven but with faster
sleight of hand. So to say that "Now You See Me" didn't have its
amusing moments, would be a lie. But this sequel however, NOW YOU SEE
ME 2, is a big giant mess.

In NOW YOU SEE ME 2, the four horsemen Jesse Eisenberg, Woody
Harrelson, Dave Franco, Lizzy Caplan, after a year of outwitting the
FBI and winning the public's adulation with their Robin Hood-style
magic spectacles, resurface for a comeback performance in hopes of
exposing the unethical practices of a tech magnate. But a certain
revenge plot threatens their impossible heist yet.

The first film had more mystery, thriller and intrigue, so at the very
least it kept you engaged, but NOW YOU SEE ME 2 resorts to cheap laughs
and a build up that frankly kinda insults our intelligence. The film
would like to make you believe that it's smart, it even thinks itself
that way, but in its attempt to give you a seemingly intricate and
elaborate trick and a big reveal, it gets lost in its own process.

Isla Fisher's Henley whom I thought was a strong female character, got
replaced by Lizzy Caplan's Lula who's more concerned about getting
laid. For some reason, they had to present Woody Harrelson's
character's identical twin brother, also played by Woody Harrelson. I
think that was a poor decision on the filmmakers' part. It's bad enough
that they had to resort to this annoying unlikable family member, on
top of that, they couldn't just get another actor and have it be a
brother, instead of identical twin?! Woody Harrelson is a great actor,
but watching two of him bantering, that's the point when I stop taking
this movie seriously as a piece of entertainment. This franchise says
that the closer you look, the less you see. Well, if you step back a
bit, you'll see the big picture that NOW YOU SEE ME 2 is not as crafty
as it's cracked up to be.

-- Rama's Screen --
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a group of magicians who are going to
reveal the secrets of a corporation. However, they get outsmarted and
blackmailed. They have to try get an upper hand in a seemingly
difficult situation. 

I enjoyed the first "Now You See Me" because I was wowed by the mystery
and suspense it had. This installment, however, does not provide me
with the same experience. 

This time round, the film spends a lot of time introducing the new
characters and to set the picture. Then, there is a constant stream of
trickery, which are unrealistic and unlikely. The plot becomes so far
fetched and random, events happening so conveniently that it loses
believability, which is the key that made the first film great. There
are some scenes in here that's good, but most of the time I am left to
wonder when the film is going to end. Unfortunately, I can't see the
wire factor in "Now You See Me 2".
<|_=00=_|>
This film is undeniably visually dazzling, arguably to the point of
being exhausting. But what I'm taking from this dubious new genre, if
you could call it that, is that filmmakers shamelessly exploit and yet
devalue the nature of real-life illusionism (i.e. "magic"), in which
the magician actually has to make something work that looks impossible
or highly unlikely (it's a trick), by making use of the nearly endless
possibilities of film, in which things that would be impossible in real
life can actually be accomplished on screen. So we get things like
Lizzy Caplan apparently vanishing into thin air in Atlas's apartment,
and since magicians, of course, don't divulge how they accomplish their
tricks, the film takes advantage of this by doing things that in all
likelihood really are impossible  no explanations or credibility
necessary. 

Since we all know that you can do all these things in the movies
anyway, what's the point of making them into magicians, when you can
watch a Harry Potter movie and you don't really have to wonder how
people in paintings can move?
<|_=00=_|>
the first movie was good, i love it in fact. All the tricks were kinda
impossible, but at least its all make sense after they showed us how
they did it and added with an interesting plot twist at the end. Now
you see me 2, however, went to the next level of bull tricks and
meaningless story line with "crunchy" jokes. It was boring and
confusing. I wasted 2 hours for nothing. 

I used to think that the characters in the first movie were good and
well tough out - they were good as a team and fun to be watched. Now,
they are just annoying and try soooo hard to look cool with their
crappy dialogue and outrageous tricks. Its a movie about magicians
right? Not witches nor wizards. I mean, can they really throwing cards
from one to another without anyone noticing? Can a card slide through
your body that easily?

To summarise, the movie is bad in everything (story line, acting,
dialogue) Don't even bother to watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
While the first installation was enjoyable, the second one does not
live up. The plot was bland and dull and dragging. The dialogue was dry
and just downright stupid. The magic tricks were OK (and unnecessary),
but there was no wow factor. No jaw-dropping revealing or mind hack or
anything like that. If the first movie keeps you guessing until the
final scene, then Now You See Me 2 just basically tells the whole story
in a straight line. It's just plain bad

To pair with the bad plot, the acting was also horrid. Lizzy Caplan was
beyond tragic. There is no charisma in her character at all. Replacing
Isla Fisher was a really bad move. And when you thought: "Well, at
least Michael Caine or Morgan Freeman will provide some top-notch
acting?", you were wrong. Their characters are just so dull that even
their talents can not save them.
<|_=00=_|>
If you want a movie about magicians, and are not 12 years old, I'll
recommend The Illusionist or The Prestige. If you like superhero movies
- watch one of those. This is kind of a mix.

I guess what I'm trying to say is:

If you like movies that are fast paced, where they try to cram as much
as possible into the movie in as little time as possible, kind of a
movie directed by a hamster or something, then you'll probably like
this movie.

If you suspension of disbelief comes easy to you, then you'll also like
it. Because there is really nothing very believable in it. All the
magic tricks smell of CGI and "movie", and there is never doubt whether
it's gonna work or not.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying that I didn't like the first "Now You See Me",
but I would rate it a 6/10 just for the fact it was SOMEWHAT enjoyable.
The sequel is a movie that probably nobody asked for, but yet they did
it anyway. 2 hours of poorly directed and written nonsense.

SOME vague spoilers ahead, though you won't care about them at all.

THE PLOT The plot tries to twist and turn a couple of times, but it is
just a straight line. To try and spice it up they tried the twist with
Morgan Freeman's character, but nobody believed it, not even Mr.
Freeman.

THE MAGIC A movie about magic should not be a movie about CGI, which
the first movie was and now the second. The Illusionist and The
Prestige were doing their magic tricks for the audience IN the movie,
for the crowd in that universe. This one does the tricks just for the
people watching the movie. Need to make someone disappear? Of course
there will be a cut. Need to make someone escape? They simply transform
into water. How? Who cares, a magician never reveals his tricks (hint:
CGI). 

THE LOGISTICS A bunch of random magicians can take over the whole of
London on New Year's Eve in half a day without preparation. They can
also somehow broadcast their tricks LIVE all over the world, on all TVs
in all city centers, etc.

THE PANDERING TO THE Chinese MARKET Yes I know that "entertaining"
movies nowadays always have something for the Chinese market: a
character, a vase, a flashback scene, etc. But this one went all in:
mystical characters that know and see everything, they help the
protagonists without a second thought, etc. Oh and did I mention they
are literally going to China for some reason, just to show what a great
place it is?

THE HEIST SCENE (FLYING CARD) God please make it stop. A 10-minutes
scene with a quintillion number of ways it can go wrong - everything
works out. How to prevent a heist like that? A single security camera
in the room and an underpaid guard watching it. Done.

THE FEMALE CHARACTER Jesus Christ, don't get me started on Lizzy
Caplan's character. With a couple of attempts at witty lines about
misogyny and discrimination, her character was a caricature of a female
character.

JESSE EISENBERG No.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was so poorly written, I felt the need to make as many
people aware to avoid paying for it. I think I have written a handful
of reviews but here is my short take on it...It was a story line that
never developed, childish "illusions," and attempts at humor that made
me roll my eyes. The characters were painful to watch act as the lines
and script was so awkward, they could not even make it look good. My
friend summarized the "entertainment" best by imitating the illusions
saying, "It's not in this hand because look! It's in my other hand!"
That corny. I watched two different couples walk out before they
delivered some illogical obnoxious explanation on the "eye" and then my
friend and I walked out asthey continued to explain. The first movie
was very entertaining but this may be the worst sequel ever produced.
<|_=00=_|>
How this movie even received a 7 rating is a good example of how the
studios clearly pay people to stuff the ballot boxes. Don't be fooled
by the great cast. This one is straight to VOD and everything in this
film says "cash in on the mild success of the first." What makes fun is
the "how did they do that?" question. But in this one, they tell you.
It's only possible in a movie like this where you get the help of CGI
and ask you to believe that the dumb things you see and know couldn't
happen just happen. They will definitely not make a third.

The first movie in this series was something of a failure because it
decided to foolishly allow it's "heroes" to pull of feats of wonder
that were simply impossible without help from CGI. Hollywood seems to
think that pushing the limits beyond is a good thing, forgetting that
most of us with a brain get bumped right out of movie land magic once a
movie shows reminds us of how false of a premise it is. The suspension
of disbelief is gone and you're left just with disbelief.

So this film has a problem that is evident early. How can we top the
preposterous nature of the first film with something even more
improbable and ridiculous? Ten minutes into the film they use CGI twice
in one scene that is so absurd that you can't help but feel insulted.
No!!! It really IS magic! THIS is what you should expect from this
movie. And if you can buy this lazy effort and pretend as if the
totally super cool amazingly impossible is somehow possible -perhaps
you'll like this film. It's the kind of magic that only superheroes can
pull off. And that only works because it's never meant to be real like
this is. 

I hated it. I only stayed with it because of company. Save your money.
And even if it's free, save your time. And if you're really curious,
just wait for that scene 10 minutes into the movie to decide whether
you really want to be dumb enough to waste another hour plus. The
script is bad enough and the acting lazy so that you can make that
decision easily. At least I've helped you gauge whether you want to
watch this film or plan on having an alternative plan to escape from
this movie.... like magic.
