
I walked in with zero expectations and ended up being very pleasantly
surprised. This movie was fun, well crafted and extremely entertaining.
Being a big fan of the franchise (and of the genre)I was very happy
with how this prequel explored the backstory of the psychic/medium and
her future "helpers". The effects were great, the different
ghosts/spirits/ entities were all different in their background and
aspects. The plot was well developed and the jump-scares were well
placed. There is no "repetition" from the previous two movies so this
movie gained in originality.

You will not be disappointed.

Very fun ride!

NB: look for two thrilling cameos!!
<|_=00=_|>
Oh my. I have to be honest here, I found the first Insidious hilarious,
as it wheeled out every spook house trope in the history of horror
cinema and then topped it off with a cameo by Darth Maul (as we all
know), so I avoided part two like the plague as I really didn't need
any more old Amityville throwbacks in my movies. So now its part 3 and
a friend dragged me (quietly) kicking and screaming to see it and I
honestly did hope things had improved. But.... Nope. This was quite
easily much, much worse than the first one. For a start its a long time
before anything even happens apart from some silly muddy footprints
around a house and some dreadful SFX which are nothing more than actors
covered in some grey greasepaint. The acting is incredibly hammy with
heaps of cheesy dialogue (that guy from Sex & The City being the worst)
then its time to bring in (wait for it.........) the paranormal
investigation team!!! Yes, it's really THAT original. Once again we
have a plot development used in like 1000 ghost house movies since time
began (yawnnn) and I find it incredible how anyone can find any of this
horrible tosh original. On then to a (much expected seance) and the ham
and cheese really gets ramped up. I mean who are the audience for
Insidious? They clearly know little about horror of the past (you just
can't know anything and not see this film as rehashed dirge). I saw
films exactly like this in the 1970s for goodness sake. But hey, maybe
this film is for the newbies, maybe I'm missing the point. But for
anyone else this is a tired, played to death, remake of a pile of old
dusty movies that most of us really don't need to see again. Insidious
is about as original as acne and I certainly enjoyed playing spot the
movie watching it. And guess what? Darth Maul appears again. Yay!! We
missed him (you gotta wait til the end though).
<|_=00=_|>
I was on the edge of my seat the whole way through this movie. It
brought me back to when I first watched The Exorcist as a young boy.

I'm actually quite surprised at the low rating here though. Perhaps I
thought it was brilliant because I really had no idea what the movie
was about before watching it. I tend to avoid all previews and articles
prior to watching movies so I go in fresh without any clues on what's
coming. That behavior may have served me well with this one.

Honestly speaking, I jumped out of my chair a few times and even more
satisfying, I experienced a few prolonged bouts of sustained horror. I
sat there in total fear at what was transpiring right in front of me
which I absolutely loved.

What an incredible surprise of a film and I'm still buzzing as I write
this review. Job very well done. I can't remember the last time a
horror film had such an effect on me. Bravo!
<|_=00=_|>
Insidious 3 is a pointless and unnecessary sequel (actually, from a
story perspective, it is supposed to be a prequel, although it honestly
does not matter how you place it in the overall story line, because it
has nothing to do with the 1st two movies with the exception of few
actors and a forced "cliffhanger" ending), which only serves as a
cashgrab attempt to milk whatever is left of the franchise's name.
There is absolutely nothing scary in this one, if you are one of those
people who actually get frightened by the predictable, lame, cgi
jumpscares, then you have no idea what a real horror movie looks and
feels like. The story makes no sense, there is no explanation as to why
the girl gets haunted, other than the excuse that she tried to contact
her dead mother and now some entity has attached itself to her. The
entity itself is not scary and at the end lets go of her in the lamest
way possible. Speaking of the end, it changed the tone of the film
completely and turned it into a lame romantic family drama which felt
corny and out of place. The two "dudes" with the internet show that
"tried" to help were ridiculous and overall I was under the impression
that the movie crew had no real idea if they want to make a scary
horror movie or a parody of some sort. Like I said in the summary -
complete garbage, horror fans - avoid, there is nothing original or
remotely scary to see here.
<|_=00=_|>
Not a terrible movie by any stretch of the imagination, but sadly
nowhere near the standard of the first two Insidious movies. I found
the characters pretty flat and uninteresting and the story less
imaginative than the previous installments.

That said, as a stand alone it's not a bad horror film, especially
considering it was a first attempt at directing by the guy who usually
does the screenplay. I will admit to jumping out of my seat on more
than one occasion whilst watching. It certainly doesn't lack in scares,
what it does lack is depth, there isn't enough going on between the
"jumps". By all means, go and see this film, just don't expect it to
match the brilliance of the first two.
<|_=00=_|>
Me and wife wife loved the first two installments of the franchise, so
we of course were really excited for a third part.

Wow, what a let down.

Besides just a few hints and pointers that make me say, "Oh, from the
first film!" this movie had nothing to add to, or do with the original
story.

The scares were sub-par. I few 'quiet for a little bit and than noise
and jump' scenes, but nothing to write home about.

If you want to see a good horror movie, might as well skip this one and
stick with the first two films in the franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
Insidious 3 relies on the heavy theme coping with loss, starting within
the characters and extending directly to the viewers. Quinn has lost
her mother and launches the plot forward because of her attempts to
contact her.

Quinn's father has lost his wife and has trouble coping with the fact
that he has to parent his two children alone; throughout the movie, he
also seems as if he's lost his motivation for each scene, leading to
the inability to cope with the emotions in which he should deliver each
line.

Elise is everyone's favorite psychic, and she herself has some loss as
well. Her husband committed suicide, and she decides to abandon her
gift after the attempts at contacting him lead to a woman threatening
her with death. She also loses her husband's sweater, and that kind of
stinks for her. It smelled just like him.

The demon taking a hold of Quinn has lost the ability to breathe, and
has trouble really expressing himself except for a kind, tender moment
he has at the end stroking the face of a semi-corporeal Quinn within
the further world.

Quinn loses her ability to walk.

Quinn has a brother whose only purpose in this film is to suggest an
introduction of two familiar characters to the series or else the
audience would feel cheated if they never showed up. Her brother loses
his chance to be involved in the ending. The screenwriter couldn't take
on the challenge of including him in any meaningful way.

That's where the loss and coping effect starts to happen with the
audience. We are introduced to characters that show up and never
return. Quinn's friend, it seems like her best friend, just disappears
halfway through. Quinn's love interest, the last we hear of him he is
staying at his grandma's house. Poor Jeris Poindexter loses his wife,
and we never see him interact with the plot in any meaningful way. The
director/screenwriter gives and takes away. What is the point in
shoehorning characters in the plot that do nothing? This movie is so
incredibly lazy.

This movie is so incredibly manipulative.

Atmosphere is replaced with silence which is ear wrenchingly
interrupted with jump scares. So many jump scares: the bane of modern
horror. People who watch this won't get scared, they'll get startled.
And the sentiment isn't a result from caring about the characters, it's
from the director/screenwriter pulling on a social milieu of losing a
loved on; we as an audience, as human beings, sympathize with this
complete base feeling of loss as we internally direct how we would feel
if we lost a mother or a wife. This is emotional manipulation on the
part of the director/writer. Emotional pandering at its worst.

We as an audience feel the loss of losing any character development
within the plot, especially for those side characters. They are excess
weight holding down this movie. We lose any meaningful shot
composition, and are left with flat camera angles. We lose any
character development, no one really learns anything except that we
should really avoid trying to talk to dead people.

Let's hope this is the last remnants of the awful jump scare movies. An
audience deserves a cold and articulate atmosphere.
<|_=00=_|>
Obscure story - girl gets haunted because ... her ghosts need to be
dispelled? 

The first hour is impressive. As always with this series, the sound is
excellent (although the shrieking-witch violins are held back to the
end credits), and there's an effective jump scare at 30 mins + at 50
mins a really well lamp-lit journey in the after-world. And it's good
to see Lyn Shane carrying a film.

So the whole thing is nicely set up - maybe an allegory for a father's
grief over his daughter's suicidal tendency - and then ... they
introduce the ghost busters team and ruin the whole effect. Also the
rest of the jump scares are lame. Pfff. And the father has no real
character. And James Wan is part of the cast - the director in the
theatre. 

The tone changes so radically in the final act that you have to think
the producers reduced the plot to a marketing vehicle so they could
plan for the next sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
Now why did we enjoy movies like insidious (the first) and the
conjuring? it was because it was able to mix a decent plot with a truly
genuine scare galore coupled with some great classic tones.

But in this insidious 3, we get a very predictable, stretched out and
mediocre representation of a horror movie. This movie takes at least 25
minutes before anything interesting happens. Then it goes on to take
another 30 minutes for any genuine suspense or scares to happen. If you
think thats bad wait until I tell you about the ending where a single
old woman................ (dam wait spoilers) but its not worth your
time anyway.

The scare scenes themselves are predictable as hell (infact you would
already know how and when the next monster would show up), because of
that when another one comes around you loose all interest. As if thats
not enough, some of the sound tracks during the scares were
atrocious.it was like that music which you pray for to stop.

I would advise any true horror movie fan to stay away from this movies.
it is not scary, it is boring and lacks any real finesse.
<|_=00=_|>
This film basically sets out to explain how the woman in black from the
first movie and the physic became acquainted. The films starts with
Quinn, who wishes to contact her dead mother, turning up at psychic
Elise Rainier house looking for help. From this point going forward
things turn a little sour.

The acting is OK but no Oscar nominations. Stefanie Scott does a good
job to add emotional content to an average script and there are a few
jump moments to keep you entertained.

Sadly those are the positives.

Essentially the film has a "make it up as we go along" stink to it. The
woman in black is annoying rather than scary, Darth insidious offers a
laugh out-load moment and the plot is obvious and at times ridiculous.
I doubt much thought went into this chapter other than the suits
calculating the profit.

There will be more Insidious movies to follow this one  a la
paranormal activity - and less and less we will care.
