
"The Diary of a Teenage Girl" is a film that shouldn't be as uncommon
as it is for American cinema. It's a seriously contemplative and
revealing drama about a young woman lost and confused about her sexual
identity upon committing one of society's most serious taboos and
realizing that she liked it and might want to try it again. And again.
And enough times to keep an audio diary of her thoughts and experiences
about said act.

I'll catch you up; set in 1970's San Francisco, Minnie (Bel Powley), a
fifteen-year-old girl and aspiring cartoonist, experiences her sexual
awakening after losing her virginity to her mother's sorta-boyfriend
Monroe (Alexander Skarsgård). Minnie considers herself overweight and
undesirable in every sense, and is largely neglected by her Bohemian
mother Charlotte (Kristen Wiig), who is usually too busy smoking weed
or doing drugs with strangers to even notice her daughter, so this
awakening comes as an immense shock to Minnie and her person.

Minnie begins to crave more sex and attention from Monroe, going as far
as to make intimate sex with him a regular thing, in addition to
craving sex from strangers and other boys her age, all under her
mother's nose. This sex drive, however, is deeper than horniness, but a
cry by Minnie for companionship, desire, and, most of all, love. Minnie
wants to be the apple of someone's eye, so much so that when she
leaves, the person feels like they'll die without her company and
security.

I've long had the same hunger Minnie has had, though I've been
fortunate, as a male, to see roughly two or three coming of age films
that accurately reflect my emotions, my desires, and my sexual
awakening. Young girls and stories of their sexual awakening have been
cruelly shortchanged in American film and "The Diary of a Teenage Girl"
takes note of that just by existing. Consider scenes when Monroe and
Minnie have sex, makeout with one another, or Minnie describes past
sexual advances to her best friend. If these scenes made you at all
uncomfortable, uneasy, or awkward (like they did me), then writer and
directress Marielle Heller has effectively proved that fact without
even saying it. Now switch the genders of the two main characters,
think about the situation over again, and see if you feel that same
level of discomfort.

Heller unapologetically details Minnie's desires in a way that, while
revealing, is whimsical, thanks to the presence of Minnie's drawings
springing to life before her eyes. However, this occasional distraction
is offset by Heller's honest depiction of Minnie and, most importantly,
the rawer scenes of the film, like when we see Minnie stand naked
before a mirror as she examines her body and voices her desire to be
loved and cherished. It's something I'm sure most young girls have done
at least a few times in their life; standing before a mirror entirely
exposed and hoping someone will love you for all of you rather than
just parts of you. It's the basic level of human feeling, and Minnie
has discovered it and craves it much quicker than any of her friends
have.

Bel Powley is a force on-screen here, positioning herself not as a
fabled caricature but an empowering everygirl that transcends beyond
the confines of a typical teenage girl into somebody many can relate
to. It also helps that Powley, herself, is such a great screen
presence, confident even when her character is insecure, and
encapsulated in a bubble that teeters between innocence and the loss of
innocence.

"The Diary of a Teenage Girl" could easily be paired with "Turn Me On,
Goddammit!," a Norwegian coming of age drama about a girl relatively
the same age as Minnie, who becomes entranced with masturbation and
sexual pleasure so much so that it takes over her life. Truly impacting
and significant coming of age stories for young girls are depressingly
few and far between and here is a film that boldly asserts itself by
silently calling audiences out on its double standards for young women,
focusing on a relatable protagonist throughout the film, giving us
artful direction and attractive aesthetics not as a means to sugarcoat
but to humanize, and concluding the picture with an ending that, while
unfortunately fairly radical for American cinema, hits as hard as some
of the best endings of films this year.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the movie that at the New Directors/New Films film festival in
New York in March 2015. I read Phoebe Gloeckner's graphic novel that
the film was based on. Although I did enjoy the book, I did struggle
with the characters and a lot of the things the characters were doing,
but I couldn't wait to read it every night. I loved the way she told
the story of a 15-year-old girl that has just started an affair with
her mother's boyfriend in 1970's San Francisco.

I was drawn to read the book and see the movie because I am a huge
Alexander Skarsgård fan and I love to support his films. His character,
Monroe Rutherford, seemed like a total jerk in the book. Alex's take on
the character was much sweeter. Sure, the content is the same, but the
characters in the movie (ALL of the characters) seemed much more
likable in the movie. It was hard to see why Minnie would be so into
Monroe in the book, but it is quite evident in the movie. Besides
Alex's handsome good looks, his Monroe is a happy-go-lucky guy that
shows he has a heart. (Very caring) Not that I think that having an
affair with your girlfriend's 15-year-old daughter is a good thing or
appropriate, you can see how a situation like this could happen
(especially in that household). The fact that he could take a character
like Monroe and make him so likable, convinces me that this is his best
performance to date.

Minnie is the kind of girl that loves to be touched and show affection.
She is a highly talented girl that has so much going on around her, and
she is receptive to take it all in. I'm happy to see the way that the
director/screenplay writer Marielle Heller told her story. I had heard
some people said there were cringe-worthy scenes, but I didn't feel
that way.

Sure there are plenty of sex and drug scenes in the movie but they are
done fairly quickly and with respect and are essential to the story.
There is humor throughout and lots of animation in the style of Phoebe
Gloeckner and Aline Kominsky.

As I said earlier, I didn't care for the characters in the book as much
as I did in the film. Bel Powley is SUPERB as Minnie (you never do
detect her natural British accent). Kristen Wiig still plays an awful
mother, but you can tell she cares, but in her own way. Christopher
Meloni was a caring and humorous ex-step-father. I also enjoyed
Madeleine Waters as Kimmie and Margarita Levieva as Tabatha which were
two of the characters I particularly didn't like in the book.

Marielle's take on the book was superb. This was a passion project for
her and it shows. I hope to see more of her work in the future. 

Brandon Trost won the Cinematography award at Sundance and you will see
why. It just doesn't feel like any other movie I have seen. It is such
a stand-out film.

THE DIARY OF A TEENAGE GIRL was an excellent movie and I cannot wait to
see it again and again. I hope it has a soundtrack because I definitely
want to buy it. It may not be suitable to see with the family, but
definitely grab your best friend and go!
<|_=00=_|>
Love this film. I highly recommend it. Written/filmed/acted
beautifully. Very human. Very funny.

If you're prude or judgmental, go see this film, but be warned.

Movie-goers complain that Hollywood films are all the same. But then
movie-goers complain when an original film like The Diary Of A Teenage
Girl comes out. Funny that.

Yes, the subject matter is dark, but the filmmakers have struck the
pitch-perfect tone. There is nothing cynical about this film.

This true story is told from the point-of-view of Minnie, a lonely
15-year-old girl who loves to draw, and who loves to have a bunch of
consensual sex with her mother's pathetic 35-year-old boyfriend Monroe.

The animated parts are sweet, funny, raunchy--the drawings a
15-year-old girl.

I disagree with the UK reviewer who says she speaks in the "wise beyond
her years" dialogue typical of American teenage films. I had the exact
opposite reaction: I was relieved to hear her speak in plain, simple,
sometimes downright dumb sentences. (So ignore the numpty Brit
reviewer.)

Many will find it impossible to separate the (illegal) deed from the
brilliant story. So I'll address this review to people who are on the
fence: 

If you think you'd like to see this film, go see it. 

Don't be scared away. Yes, the material is a little uncomfortable at
first, but take a couple of breaths, and remember that this is a true
story. Enjoy the honesty. Enjoy the non-judgment. Enjoy some empathy.
There's so much cynicism on TV and on the internet. You deserve a
break. Go see this movie and show yourself some cinema love.
<|_=00=_|>
An honest, unfiltered & nonjudgmental coming of age drama about a young
woman's sexual endeavours, The Diary of a Teenage Girl is a nicely
crafted, sensibly narrated & wonderfully performed cinema that's highly
bohemian in nature, emanates a psychedelic vibe from start to finish &
is further uplifted by its well-put together cast.

Based on the graphic novel of the same name, the story of The Diary of
a Teenager is set in San Francisco during the 1970s and concerns
Minnie, a 15-year old aspiring cartoonist who in the wake of her
sexuality begins a relationship with her mother's boyfriend. However,
her longing for love & acceptance soon sets her on a path to much
bolder adventures.

Written & directed by Marielle Heller in what is her filmmaking debut,
The Diary of a Teenage Girl is oddly stylish, surreal & provocative in
depicting the sexual & artistic awakening of its protagonist and
captures the highs & lows of adolescent life with utmost sincerity.
Heller's direction is as good as her screenplay, and it's refreshing to
see the story being told from a girl's perspective.

Production design team does a good job in replicating the 1970s
setting, Cinematography makes splendid use of its camera & bright
colour tones to further enhance its images, and Editing is finely
carried out while the music fits its scene. Coming to the performances,
Bel Powley delivers a terrific performance and is brilliantly supported
by Alexander Skarsgård, Kristen Wiig & others.

On an overall scale, The Diary of a Teenage Girl is a bold example of
its genre that attempts to capture the turmoil of teenage years without
sugarcoating any of it, is capable of leaving a few viewers squirming
on their seats with its explicit nature, and thanks to its playful tone
& sensible handling of its characters, is a welcome entry in the
coming-of-age filmmaking landscape. Definitely worth a shot.
<|_=00=_|>
Been hopelessly hooked, for the past several days now, to the
captivating selection of 1970s pop that forms the music soundtrack of
The Diary of a Teenage Girl. 

The film itself, about a teenage girl discovering and embracing sex
amidst the Bohemian surroundings of 1970s San Francisco, impressed me
for its rare honesty, its vibrancy, and the wonderful music soundtrack
that accompanies the film's moods. Phoebe Gloeckner's searing and much
acclaimed 2002 graphic novel comes to screen with a careful selection
of eclectic tracks from the 1960s-70s that make the film soar at times.
The film is not for the prudish and easily shocked though. And that
includes the nannies at the Academy who have completely shut out this
indie from this years Oscar nominations!
<|_=00=_|>
The Diary of a Teenage Girl is a Robert Crumb comic come to life. You
better believe that I loved this film. 2015 has given us a lot of films
to talk about, but this one went completely under the radar, and it
shouldn't have. This may be the best film of the year, and by far, one
of the most provocative and fearless pieces in more than a year.

It's a coming-of-age story about a 15 year-old girl in the 1970's,
dangerously experimenting nymphomania with her mother's 35-year old
boyfriend. If that sound's frightening, it should be, but that's the
point. If films of the time period like "Harold and Maude", "Taxi
Driver" and "Fritz the Cat" come to mind, you're right on the money.
The early 70's were a wild, revolutionary time were mainstream movies
pushed every social boundary it could. This takes us back to those
times. Maybe today, the subject matter isn't quite outrageous, but the
nuance and celebration of it's outrageousness is infectious to a fresh,
new audience. Bel Powley is a breakout star. She's fantastic, and
uncannily plays a teenager, when in fact, she's older than me. The
other star is Kristen Wiig, in the best role I've ever seen her in, as
the hipster mom. She's really a great dramatic actress. Most comedians
these days seem to be. The mixture between live-action and animation
was lovely to look at, and a solid touch to what would've been a film
just as fantastic without it.

This is one of my favorites, and it's going to haunt me for a while
now. I love it when movies do that.
<|_=00=_|>
Being a grumpy old guy, I'm not at all the target audience for this
film, so please bear that in mind when I tell you that I found this a
fairly tedious coming-of-age movie. I admired aspects of it - in
particular the performances of Bel Powley and Alexander Skarsgård - but
I wasn't able to maintain my interest in the story.

The biggest obstacle was, I think, that Minnie, the eponymous teenage
girl, was not the only adolescent around. All the adults in her life
were at various stages of arrested development. This is possibly the
point both of the movie and of the novel it is based on: how can a
child grow up when all her role-models are children themselves? It's an
interesting question, but when transmitted as drama the audience finds
itself stuck in high school for the duration.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Diary of a Teenage Girl" is one film that's not worried about
showing it's point even though it's supported by some artistic
animation it proves that one young lady is serious about finding
herself thru sexual discovery learning that life is about love and lust
before you discover your true self. Set in mid 1970's San Francisco Bel
Powley is Minnie a young teenage girl who starts an affair with her Mom
Charlotte's(Kristen Wiig) boyfriend Monroe(Alexander Skarsgard). And
the passion and intimate feel is hot and feel good as many scenes are
provocative and blunt showing plenty of skin and breast of young
Minnie. As this young lady is in a crazy home life world as mom
Charlotte is a fired alcoholic lady who snorts drugs with Monroe on the
west coast and California party scene. Thru it all this young lady
Minnie learns about people, life and love yet most important she comes
to peace thru herself with love and inspiration for art and people.
Overall good film of fun, discovery and finding about one's self with a
happy feel in the end.
<|_=00=_|>
It's 1976 San Francisco. Fifteen year old Minnie Goetze (Bel Powley) is
overjoyed at losing her virginity to her mother Charlotte (Kristen
Wiig)'s boyfriend Monroe (Alexander Skarsgård). They begin a secret
affair. Minnie and her friend Kimmie Minter get into various adult
situations. Her stepfather Pascal MacCorkill (Christopher Meloni) wants
to stay in her and her sister Gretel's lives. She records tapes of her
diary and draws inspired by cartoonist Aline Kominsky.

This takes a less conventional look at the sexual coming-of-age story
from the female perspective. It is not flowers and puppies. It is
highly sexual in nature. It is unflinching. My main problem is that Bel
is a little too old to play the fifteen year old. I rather have a
younger actress do the role without the nudity. There is a shock with a
man having sex with a young girl that is missing in this movie. She
looks 20s. I'm reminded of Heather Matarazzo in 'Welcome to the
Dollhouse' and the shock of that sexual subject matter. This movie has
the same shocking subject.
<|_=00=_|>
You don't have to be or remember being or know or parent a teenage girl
to find yourself addressed by The Diary of a Teenage Girl. Its broader
theme is the danger of power, especially the sexual license which the
setting  San Francisco, 1976  emblematizes. 

Young Minnie discovers both her sexual and her creative power as she's
deflowered by her mother's boyfriend Monroe and draws cartoons in the
style of (R Crumb's wife) Aline Kominsky. (Monroe, by the way, may be a
studly ballooning of Jules Feiffer's nebbish hero of the time, as
Minnie proves a long way away from the cartoon style of Mickey and his
gal.) The animation scenes show her living in a state of heightened
awareness, life bursting out and into art. Both endeavours prove
dangerous. Her affair threatens her mother's shaky security and her
art-work can strike the conventional (e.g., Monroe) as freaky as her
exuberant sex strikes a younger lover. Her other creative enterprise,
tape recording her confessions, blows up the scene. Art and sex are
avenues of self-discovery and self-realization  dangerous. Both are
life-affirming but both herald the frightening responsibilities of
adulthood.

Minnie is obviously the film's central subject and consciousness.
Self-conscious about her physical imperfections, she succumbs to her
mother's and Monroe's invitations to assert her sexuality. Full credit
to Bel Powley for an astonishing, shameless and vanity-free
presentation.

But the other women are significant too. There's Minnie's "white trash
 but in a good way" best friend, in whom she entrusts teen confidences
but who steals a bout with Monroe herself. 

There's the lesbian lurking in the bush who seduces Minnie only to
exploit her for her own purposes. So you don't have to be a man to
exploit a trusting young girl  though Monroe demonstrates how
swaggering manhood and convenient access are a huge advantage. Monroe's
casual predation shows how his power can destroy him too. He knows he
shouldn't do what he does and he knows Minnie is manipulating him but
he can't control himself. He even drifts into Charlotte's silly web to
resolve the issue: Monroe must marry Minnie. He's too easily satisfied
even to realize his own small dream of a mail-order vitamin empire.
Remote infusions define him. The fact that he lets himself be seduced
by young Minnie shows him victim of his own passivity, a character
wholly without character.

But the two other key characters are Minnie's mother and younger
sister. Charlotte was a highschool beauty, is still as beautiful and
enchanting as Kristen Wiig, surrounded by lusting lovers  and is
paralyzed by that former power. She desperately clings to romance
because she feels she has lost her sexual appeal and beauty. As her
egotistical ex-husband Pascal insensitively declares, she can't run her
own life. We watch her drift from one stupor to the next, abandoning
Minnie to Monroe and latenite TV, eventually being fired from her
library job. Only the fear that her anger may have driven Minnie to
suicide sobers her up sufficiently to embrace her prodigal daughter. At
the end, though, Charlotte is still "seeing" Monroe, unable to escape
her enslavement to her sexual liberty with him. "We can never talk
about it," she instructs Minnie, but she can't leave the man who
humiliated her either.

Kid sister Gretel shows more hope. Without either her beautiful
mother's or her plainer sister's looks she has to find another path to
mature self-respect. With her mother's shallowness as one model, she
finds a preferable one in the new Minnie. From her she learns that she
doesn't need a man or a relationship for self-respect. The two sisters
used to fight and swap bitter notes but at the end they frolic
together, with an exuberance that bonds them as women, as sisters.
