
I am very surprised this film has some bad reviews as i really enjoyed
this film, Yes its a old fashion cat and mouse chase type of film but
its well done. Olga kurylenko plays the lead role and shows just how
good she is, the ex hit-man (2007) and bond girl (quantum of solace) is
a thief with a certain set of skills that will do whatever it takes to
get the job done while james purefoy (a knights take) is the man sent
to stop her. Plot is basic and easily followed but the action and
constant clash between olga and james makes this film worth watching,
with a small role in the film for morgan freeman "momentum" is one of
the better small production films of 2015 and well worth a watch from
the opening scene that looks like a bunch of power rangers on speed to
the final 20 minutes of the film momentum delivers.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not the greatest of the female-themed action adventures, but it's
certainly watchable. I saw it because I'm a fan of James Purefoy and
Olga Kurylenko. They were good in their roles, but each time Purefoy
said one of his "Damn! She's good!" lines, it was silly. It wasn't that
she was such a professional, it's more that the bad guys came across as
rather inept. Some of it was tongue-in-cheek, such as when Purefoy's
coat caught fire, he slowly took it off, saying "I liked that coat."
There wasn't a great deal of urgency projected from the bad guys
showing they needed to get back that drive quickly. Morgan Freeman's
character was fairly a mute point in the movie. They could've stuck any
actor -- famous or not -- in that role, that's how superfluous his
character was. All in all, it was entertaining. Having seen him play
Blackbeard and Joe Carroll, I have to say James Purefoy does the bad
guy roles very good.

I gave this a 5-star rating. I'd recommend this if you liked Colombiana
and Salt. It's not as good as either of those movies, but it's along
the same lines, and Kurylenko is good in the few action scenes she's
in.
<|_=00=_|>
This action thriller is surprisingly entertaining. Unlike most
political action movies, the plot in based around a strong female lead
and has an interesting and exciting narrative. There's plenty of
action, car chases, fight scenes and more, for those who like an action
packed movie, as well as an engaging story with plenty of twists and
turns. Although this film doesn't really bring anything new to the
table, it's a very entertaining way to spend 90 minutes and I'd
recommend it to all fans of the genre. Excellent acting and a lot of
familiar faces within the cast ensure this will become a firm favourite
of many viewers.
<|_=00=_|>
Without any new or unusual plot in his female centred action flick
debutant director Stephen Campanelli has not succeeded.

Myself tired on hearing 'One last mission', 'Find the secrets behind
the mystery', 'where is the ____?' in action thrillers.

Entire movie revolves between Olga (protagonist) & James Purefoy
(antagonist). Torture scenes lead by James Purefoy shown him as a
powerful villain. Former Bond girl Olga is not bad in action.

Another keyword in the cast is Morgan Freeman. His presence as senator
doesn't make any difference to me. Repeated story deflates the entire
movie. 

Overall you can spend 90mins if you love to watch ladies in action,
others please don't waste your time.
<|_=00=_|>
It's quite ironic that the title is called Momentum seeing that the
pace is rather slow for an action movie. Credit for trying to set up
espionage twists along the bullet spree, but things eventually feel
like they are conveniently forced to make the heroine look good. Still,
Olga Kurylenko does look fittingly attractive and strong for the female
role, the action is also fairly presentable for a leisure watch.

Alex (Olga Kurylenko) is an operative who got caught in a web of
conspiracy after a botched heist. She must try to survive from other
agents while trying to figure out the secret agenda. Like Milla
Jovovich or Angelina Jolie before her, Olga admittedly looks the part.
She's nimble and athletic enough to pull off the operative persona,
which is already half or even most of the movie's appeal.

James Purefoy as Mr. Washington is convincing as the antagonist, it
feels like he's comfortable on suave charismatic villain after his role
in The Following series. Morgan Freeman rounds out the cast, he appears
in so many movies lately and for a good reason, relatively. His past
few roles might just be supporting ones but he does give air of
authority when he's present and a famous name can't hurt.

The main problem is the movie tries to incorporate too many angles, be
it may the sinister villain and some unexpected allies. However, these
subplots don't really mash well together, in the end it resorts to
cheap Deus Ex Machina twist and even stalls the pace. Some of the
characters might feel out of place or simply appear out of nowhere when
plot demands them. The tricks used are far from refined, which make it
even more far fetch when the movie tries too hard to sell them.

These flaws notwithstanding, Momentum does offer what expected of it; a
strong female lead shooting through and outsmarting her foes. It may
not receive many merits from the story or consistency, at times it
seems like watching a femme fatale wearing heavy plot armor. but it
delivers a decent action for simple movie night.
<|_=00=_|>
I am surprised by the low reviews after watching this film. I expected
a film full of clich√©s and bad acting, but what was delivered was quite
entertaining. If you went into this filming wanting action packed
scenes, thrilling chase scenes and just a lot of gun fights...you will
be surely delighted. I found the relationship between the main
antagonist and protagonist very refreshing. The sheer admiration that
the antagonist made the film more interesting. I guess my rating could
be a bit bias as I am a big Nikita (tv show) fan and this film reminded
me very much of that. Anyways, if it's Friday night and you are looking
for an action packed film to kick back to, this will not disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>
The action is really nice, even if it might start off on the wrong foot
(or at least it feels like it does). There's conspiracy, there is
fighting, there is shooting and there is chasing. What else would
someone need? A more decent plot would be a helpful suggestion, but
since there is none to be found here, let's roll with what we have and
have a good time with it.

Olga is pretty fit (if you'll excuse the pun) and is able to pull off
and make it look believable, what her character is going through in
this movie. Sometimes it seems she is portrayed a bit weaker than she
actually is, but that does not bother the flow of the movie too much.
Light and fun entertainment, nothing more and nothing less
<|_=00=_|>
'Momentum' is an action film and for that reason it has to be compared
with other films of the same genre. And in comparison with many other
action films it is actually well done.

The story is good and believable. The dialogues may not be at the
highest possible level but there are some original lines. Also, the car
chase in the parking lot looks perfect and well-thought. I find it
interesting that they used camera angles that differ from the standard
ones and give a nice touch to the whole perception of the film. Another
interesting thing that can be pointed out is that it was filmed in Cape
Town, South Africa which is a pleasant change of scenery.

Olga Kurylenko gives a solid performance portraying a strong woman,
even tough at times. She proves that she can play different characters
with ease because her role here contrasts with what we've seen from her
lately ('November Man' and 'The Water Diviner'). What makes a nice
impression here is her use of face expressions, unlike others (and not
in this film only) who wear the same faces film after film.

As a whole, it is an intense film with enjoyable action that feels
real.
<|_=00=_|>
My quick rating 5,3/10. A pretty straight forward action movie with a
really kewl looking robbery to start off with. When the main character
(Olga Kurylenko) is accidentally seen on a supposed diamond heist, she
must run from those that hired them to steal the diamonds, or was it
for the diamonds at all? This leads to a cat and mouse game between
them and does involve some interesting action sequences along with a
solid female lead to be reckoned with. Not really anything new but
enough flare to hold your attention, especially for a limited budget
flick. I wouldn't mind seeing a sequel to this (the ending sorta leaves
the door open) since this movie did well with what it had to work with.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, it was nice to see Olga Kurylenko in a lead role. I have
been somewhat of a fan since seeing her in Hit-man. The character she
portrayed in this film was was not what I was expecting. But I was not
disappointed at all.

Although, the action and fight scenes did not really play out to their
full potential, it wasn't all drawn out too long like most movies these
days. It was still worth watching. They kept the movie focused on what
was important.... THE STORY and plot.

The background of the lead character could give way to another
"Bourne"-type franchise. And giving the way the movie ended, I am
hoping to see this story continue and hopefully progress into something
better.
