
I don't think this film deserves the bad reviews it is receiving. Of
course everyone has different opinions on a great film. Personally, a
movie is good (or great or excellent) if it sticks with me for a while
after. I found myself thinking about the main characters for a few days
after watching it at the Toronto International Film Festival. This film
made me feel many emotions for the characters -which is very ironic
considering the main theme of Equals. I thought Kristen Stewart and
Nicholas Hoult had excellent chemistry and portrayed their characters
so wonderfully, and that's an impressive accomplishment if you remember
the characters for the most part are supposed to be emotionless.
<|_=00=_|>
I had expectations for this film, which were all exceeded. I expected
the film to be somewhat even kilter from start to finish-- a character
development story. What it is is a slow burning, impactive, stressful,
hopeful story that will change the way you think about life and the
world. Drake Doremus captures the essence of this seemingly peaceful
Utopian world, but it is the connection between his two leads that
bring this compelling story to life. I feel that people who don't like
the film probably simply don't get it. It is deep, and it stays with
you long after viewing. Of the films I saw at TIFF this year, this one
is the only one I can't get out of my head. In fact, I liked it so well
that I saw it at the second screening as well.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll tell you what you need to know: if you like movies like this,
you'll like this one. Maybe a whole lot. It's a science fiction movie
with heart, that doesn't rely on explosions and death rays and warp
speed travel, and it sheds light on things that are happening in our
society today. The acting is very, very good. There is genuine
chemistry between the leads, and they were both born to play these
parts. The movie makes you think and feel. It's smart and it's deep.
It's internally consistent. The soundtrack works. You can learn from
it. There aren't anywhere near enough movies like this being made these
days.

Some people hated this movie. A lot of times, I think people that hate
a movie like this are people who don't like the fact that their own
shortcomings are being exposed.

For me, when the movie ended, I experienced body-wide chills, and my
eyes filled with tears. I loved it. I subtract a point because, from
time to time, it moves a bit slower than it might need to. It's not
quite an all time science fiction masterpiece, but it's close. It'll
move you. You'll remember it. It'll give you something to talk about.
It's a date movie you can both enjoy.

If you like movies like this, you know who you are, and you can't
possibly miss this movie. You won't. You're too smart for that.
<|_=00=_|>
It confounds that a contemporary society of film makers and actors
should find the topic of dystopian love in all-white uniforms so
fascinating yet are unable to create an original and creative manner to
convey the story. Drake Doremus' Equals features Silas (Nicholas Hoult)
and Nia (Kirsten Stewart) as the Romeo and Juliet of a post-Big War
survivor social community of dullards whose existence is reduced to
monosyllabic verbiage, right-angle utilitarian architecture, and
conformist socialism. Breeding out sex as emotional savagery, any
expression of normative human emotions has been turned into a social
disease (SOS) that all are warned to be on alert to symptoms, take
medical precautions and medications, and avoid contaminated persons as
suspicious. That a society which found the cure for the common cold and
cancer should be so adverse to color, racial diversity, and human
sexuality becomes an inane setting for this story of repressive love in
the bleach rinse.

Doremus vision is monochromatic and seems to drag on long past the
obvious markers of inevitable storytelling. It was suggested that this
film should have been a short, and an edit would have moved the action
to its resolution with satisfaction. There is no mystery or even
suspension of disbelief that can be sustained for the hour and half of
this film's tale. Actors Hoult and Stewart find love on the public rest
room floor of their work place, yet, the sterile nature of the sets
make it seem less egregious than a romp in the sheets or shower. Hoult
manages to convey the agitation of a lover whose partner conceals their
shared love, and when she is discovered, conveys the anxiety of her
forced incarceration for rehabilitation and ultimate fatal cure. It is
more his film than Stewart, a relief as the format suits her
non-emotive face. Silas is the emotional one not Nia, who is a hider of
her contaminated SOS state. 

Oddly, the society in which the characters inhabit is without personal
communication devices forcing them to speak face to face rather than
text, email, or use old fashion land-line phones. If society's goal is
to render emotionless the interaction between persons, it missed the
boat. Everyone speaks to one another, gathers together, and works in
teams, the social interaction is pervasive. Minimally entertaining and
satisfying, Equals misses with the exception of encouraging a desire to
run naked through the woods leaping and shouting with joyful noise.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought the film was beautiful in it's simplicity. Left with an open
ending (i never enjoy those), the watcher of course is forced to
wonder. I imagine, and the direction the last scene showed rather
confirms, that his emotions returned shortly thereafter and that they
made it out to live their lives together. I also like to imagine they
found the other survivors at The Peninsula, already established with
food and shelter, etc. Of course, with no confirmation, we'll never
know. I'm sick of hearing band wagoners complaining of Kristen Stewarts
lack of emotion, it only shows that they're the ones lacking. She
portrays many emotions, they flit across her face, in her eyes. She
brings life to an otherwise dull scene. And Hoult has been on my radar
since Skins, and I'm so pleased to see him rising the ranks here in the
US. They both have exceptional talent.
<|_=00=_|>
I rate this 9 out of 10 only because the sound quality leaves much to
be desired. Parts of the movie are so subdued it's difficult to
understand what people are saying. I had to turn my video player to
double volume just to hear the movie at low-standard volume. That cost
it a point.

Other than that... without spoiling the plot, this is what Logan's Run
and THX-1138 should have been. No pointless, time-wasting action, no
gratuitous nudity, just sheer human emotion, drama and situation. 

The directing is excellent. The acting is superb. I am very critical
when it comes to films but I couldn't find a single conceptual or
production flaw throughout (except for the aforementioned poor sound
handling). This is an intriguing, fascinating story that leaves the
viewer with mixed emotions. What would we prefer, a pristine, harm-free
society in which emotion is subdued, or one full of emotion, beauty...
and the pain brought about by those emotions?

This film both answers and refuses to answer that question. It presents
a story, leaving us to determine which we would prefer. The story is
well-crafted, has enough twist to surprise, and an ending that
satisfies without preaching. 

This is one of the best films I've ever seen in this genre. Yes, it is
slow, has little or no action, no blood, gore, gratuitous sex or other
things on which today's society seems to thrive. In short-- this is
story telling, directing, acting and movie-making at its finest for
those minds who are more interested in humanity than car chases.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
We shan't be fooled - original ideas, concepts and scripts come by very
rarely these days. Over the years I've come to accept that we shall not
blatantly blame the creative team for the lack of some originality
whether it is on similar premise, plot points, slight clich√©s, or
visual styles. But when the final product is just a lazy mash up all
the above, ripped off of arguably better previous films, as well as
famed English literature at its most obvious, is just harder to
swallow. If you ever watched Kurt Wimmer's Equilibrium and Michael
Bay's the Island you have most certainly watched Doremus' Equals.

Pretentiously disguising the outright obvious rehash of ideas of a
dystopian society where the inhabitants are deprived of different forms
of freedom for the sake of a Utopian perfect society, with slower
pacing, contemplating set up shots and heartfelt-advertising- like
cinematography, we are left with a most forgetful film that never once
introduces a single differentiating or provocative element.
<|_=00=_|>
Drake Doremus' EQUALS, starring #KristenStewart and #NicholasHoult, is
a sweet and fascinating Romeo & Juliet story. It has similar traits as
Doremus' 2011 "Like Crazy" in that it plays into that deep longing and
desire for someone and the system just wouldn't let these two souls be
together. It's set in some kind of futuristic dystopian utopia, where
society practically abolishes coupling, romance, even having some kind
of feeling, which is why I say EQUALS is what those many young adult
novel adaptations out there wish they could've been but weren't.

Written by Nathan Parker, the story has Kristen Stewart play Nia and
Nicholas Hoult as Silas, two people in the same workplace, they have
the same routine as everybody else in their company. This is a world
where everybody gets assigned their jobs and they don't deviate from
them. After years of wars and violence, society decides that it's best
for mankind to not have any kind of emotions, so they've created a way
for that to happen. Anybody who feels any type of emotion is said to
have a bug and usually they get quarantined but even there they're told
that they're worth nothing now and suicide is the only way. But Nia and
Silas can't help noticing a growing attraction between them which leads
to a forbidden relationship. Turns out, there are other 'hiders' as
well, people who pretend they don't have emotions when in fact they do,
and they're determined to help Nia and Silas escape.

Though it's not an adaptation, the film really does move and feel like
those young adult novel adaptations, which is why I made the comparison
earlier. But what Doremus successfully managed to do is focus on more
on the relationship and less on any wishes for an uprising. The focus
is mostly on Nia and Silas. And the actors who play them, Kristen
Stewart and Nicholas Hoult are so in sync, their chemistry doesn't just
exist, it's electrifying. It's been a while, probably since "The
Notebook," that a couple could have this much energy that burns the
screen.

If you've come to see what type of science fiction technological
advances this film might show, if it would have flying vehicles or
laser weapons or talking robot, EQUALS has none of those things. It has
some cool computers, but they're hardly the supporting roles. And
that's what I also enjoy about this film, it's simple yet gripping,
it's familiar territory but very up close and intimate. And Doremus'
quiet, subtle yet stylistic approach lands perfectly. It's like if
Stanley Kubrick and Spike Jonze co-made a movie together. EQUALS may
not have been a completely new concept but this is one that's done
really well. It's a deeply-affecting love story.

-- Rama's Screen --
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely loved this movie, having been a fan of Kristen for many
years I was very excited to finally get to see this movie. 

Set in a world where humans are altered to suppress their emotions as
what they call S.O.S (Switched on syndrome) is classed as a disease. I
could literally feel the emotional connection between Silas( Nicholas
Hoult) and Neve (Kristen Stewart) as they were discovering what it
feels like to have real emotions and I found it incredibly interesting
the way everything was so built up, in terms of something as small as
touching hands seemed incredibly overwhelming and such basic human
contact was something neither could quite comprehend. I especially
loved how aesthetically pleasing the facility where the movie was shot
looked, the clean lines and simplistic layout really captured what the
characters were lacking in terms of being completely stripped
emotionally the bareness really translated through. 

I highly recommend this movie and would definitely watch it again.
<|_=00=_|>
Equals is a Science fiction love story set in a dystopian future, where
the citizens are de-sensitised from showing emotions and love. If
you're wanting guns, aliens and corny one-liners then this movie is
definitely not for you. If, on the other hand you like more sedate and
intellectual sci-fi, then I strongly recommend 'Equals'. Kristen
Stewart and Nicholas Hoult play the lead roles with fine support from
Guy Pearce and Jacki Weaver. The chemistry between the lead roles is
spot on, the music score is great, the direction and screenplay by
Drake Doremus are both excellent. Ignore the naysayers watch it, like
me you might be greatly surprised
