
This beautiful work has made history in the genre of Animation cinema -
a precious gift from devoted film-makers. The story is well known - a
matter of history. Vincent painted the portrait of Joseph Roulin,
Postmaster of Arles. The film tells us the story of Vincent's life and
last months before his death on 29 July, 1890 (aged 37) from a
self-inflicted gun-shot wound, via the device of the postmaster's son
being sent on a mission to deliver a letter from Vincent to his
brother, which has been returned. Vincent and his brother Theo were
very close, and Theo supported Vincent with regular gifts of money, and
painting canvas and tubes of paint. The postmaster Roulin knew and
loved Vincent, because these two loving brothers kept up a very
frequent correspondence. These letters have been published elsewhere
and make very moving reading. The son of Roulin goes to Paris, and to
Auvers-sur-Oise where Vincent had been in care after he had an
emotional breakdown, and talks to people who knew him. He is at first
unwilling, but becomes interested, then passionate to find out the
truth of the man whom he is now starting to fully appreciate. The
remarkable aspect of this film is that the entire story, 95 minutes of
it, is told in hand-painted oil paintings, done in the style of
Vincent's own work. Scenes begin with an image that Vincent himself
painted and if viewers are familiar with all his works, they will
recognize the people and the places. But now they are moving, they are
speaking, they are telling their stories, and their impressions of
Vincent, the man. Some were fond of him, some ridiculed him. There are
various points of view.

Technically the film "Loving Vincent" is a wonder of animation. One
hundred artists in two countries, (Poland and Greece) working in
Vincent's own style contributed full colour paintings for "the present"
and black and white paintings for "the past" as the story is being told
by the people who knew Vincent.

The film is made up of 853 'shots', and each one began with a first
frame of a full painting on canvas board. As the animation photography
was done in 12 frames per second, the first painting, would then be
photographed, then painted over, with each gradual change to certain
details or all of it, until the last frame of the shot. (This is in
place of the use of animation cels, which could not be applied in this
style of work.) At the end of the 'shot' the film-makers were left with
an oil-painting on canvas board, of the last frame. So at the end of
filming 853 paintings remained, and 200 are being auctioned off, and
many have already sold, (as can be seen from the films own website)
although at the time of writing the film has not yet premiered in the
USA. The size of the works was usually 67cm by 49cm. Bear in mind that
for one hour of film, 43,200 paintings were required, and you will
begin to see the extraordinary ambition of this project. Additionally
90 design paintings were created in the planning stages during the year
before shooting started. The purpose of these was to define the style
in which the artists would all re-create Vincent's style of painting
and make it move, live and breathe. 65,000 painted frames in oils were
made for the whole film. The story moves along briskly and is full of
wonderful characters (the people in Vincent's life). The dialogue of
the characters is full of expression, as are the faces, and the
characters have been created to really "live" for us. This was done by
casting well known and excellent actors in the main roles, and filming
them in live-action, then using those 'normal' cinematic images for a
basis of the key paintings for each 'shot'. As the film went on, I
recognized (from other films) certain of the painted faces of the real
actors, who are also giving voice to the painted characters on the
soundtrack. This type of animation has never been done before, and as
it took seven years to make the film, it might never be done again. The
ingenious planning of how to actually do it is brilliant and has been a
great success.

Vincent, who suffered, from what we now call bi-polar disease, was an
intelligent, deeply sensitive man, who had a sad childhood in a strict
bourgeouis family, and was something of a misfit. He showed immense
natural art talent. This can be seen clearly and unmistakably by
looking at his early drawing. Later he used brush techniques that
imitated the 'signature marks' in his pen and ink works. He was
understood and saw visual texture.

From Paris Vincent went to Provence, and lived in Arles. He begged his
friend Gaugin to come and join him. Vincent was over-joyed but after a
few months, things went wrong between them, and Vincent seemed to
become very distressed. When Gaugin departed, he was inconsolable.
After the famous incident of cutting of his own ear in his distress, he
went into care of Dr Gachet in Auvers, where he found a kindred spirit
in Gachet, who loved art, and recovered. There he did quite a few more
strong drawings and paintings. Vincent saw the world in a kind of
almost violent motion and most of his works, drawings and paintings
show this. It's as if the wind was visible to him in the air itself,
not only in the resulting movements of trees, and fields of grain, or
the moving sea.

He never sold a painting in his own lifetime, but gave away some, and
sent many to his brother Theo who attempted to sell them in his Paris
art gallery. And yet now his works hold the record as being the most
expensive ever sold  which happened in modern times.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the film at the Tellride Film Festival and was blown away. I knew
that the film would be gorgeous, but the trailer doesn't do the
projected feature justice. The oil paintings are mesmerizing on their
own, but combined they create a transfixing animation that is
completely unique and never gets tiring. The film is worth seeing, and
will be forever remembered, for these visuals by themselves. Its only
stumble comes from a script that has difficulty in reaching its
conclusion, and the use of formulated black-and-white flashbacks to
show Vincent's life leave something to be desired (especially when
considering the film's other creative achievements.) Even so, the film
is an immense triumph that every human being with eyes will love.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a unique movie and it is not just a movie. It is a whole new
experience ! simply amazing and breathtaking , I almost cried in many
parts just by thinking how much work and effort has been put in order
to make this film come true. A real masterpiece .A movie suitable for
all ages and all types of film lovers. When I came out of the cinema
the only word I could think about was "masterpiece" . I have nothing
bad to comment about this movie really. Nothing to complain. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is a must-see film for any Van Gogh fanatic or indeed, anyone who
is passionate about art. It is innovative and visually striking, and
the loving time and attention that has been devoted to the art is clear
and obvious throughout.

The story itself is not to be repeated here and many people know or
believe that they know the Van Gogh story (thanks to his numerous
letters he is one of the great artists that we can claim to have a
deeper insight into).

Where the film struggles is the plot. First of all it's a retelling of
a story that many people know. It's clear that the premise was wanting
to use the art in a particular way - but actually the story line, the
plot, is the secondary consideration.

I question how historically accurate the presentation of this story
actually is. I would really like to know how they could reference the
tensions that exist between different characters and the presentation
of different figures. Are they real or imagined for narrative purpose?

I get the feeling that the writers wanted to express the dichotomy of
Van Gogh - the gentle, perceptive, altruistic man, and also the fiery,
troubled, confrontational, argumentative soul. So do they project these
perceptions upon their characters - or are these positions anchored in
truth?

The movement of the film is actually quite slow. I would say that
someone who didn't have a specific love of Van Gogh might consider it
to be slow and uneventful.

Of course the outcome is inevitable and tragic - so the air of
melancholy hangs over the whole presentation. It would have been more
of an achievement to actually present the joy that must have been
present (at least at times) in the soul of this great genius. This
doesn't come across because the film is saturated in sorrow.

The dialogue is basic and doesn't ever challenge the actors - but the
presentation is fine, and at times very good (Chris O'Dowd is my
outstanding actor in this film).

Bottom line is that this film is saved by the unique presentation - had
it been a 'straight forward' film acted in a standard format, it
wouldn't have got made, it would be too bland. It would be somewhere
between documentary and biography and a little bit dry at that (not for
cinema anyway).

As it happens, I'm a huge admirer of Van Gogh and I have taken enough
interest in him to watch several documentaries and to read a number of
accounts of his life. For me this was well worth the wait - and if
you're in the same boat you will enjoy it too. If you're not that
interested in Van Gogh as an individual you might not get the same kick
out of it. It is definitely for a very particular audience.
<|_=00=_|>
Cinema has always been a gloried artwork and we have much more
authentic proof in astounding Loving Vincent.

An animated construction entirely brought to life by oil paintings, is 
quintessential proof that cinema has still barely scratched the surface
of its reaches. Loving Vincent is landmark event for animation and even
biographical storytelling through its majestic vision at the last days
of Vincent Van Gogh.

Set a after the death of fabled painter, Armand Roulin (Douglas Booth)
is possessed with a letter from Van Gogh to his brother Theo before his
death, and begins the journey to deliver it. While on call, Roulin
encounters all the people close to Vincent before is death gradually
trying to put the pieces of what cause his sudden suicide. From this we
are taken back to key moments of Van Gogh's life mesmerizingly
displayed through the living oil paintings.

Generated by 65,000 paintings by over a 100 artist, Loving Vincent is
living work of art. First shot as a live action depiction then adapted
into paintings, the immersive gallery of scenes is a first in new
format of animation. Directors: Dorota Kobiela, and Hugh Welchman take
Van Gogh's own artistry into his own biography (almost), from Citizen
Kane style narrative, assessing and celebrating the life of one of the
worlds if not the most famous painter. From this production becomes
transporting cinema experience into the world of Van Gogh and an
enchanting watch of magnificent painting and animation.

Of course what is the fundamental strength of Loving Vincent is its
captivating artwork which for every moment is spectacular, and then you
have the real narrative of Van Gogh's last days which on its own is an
affectionate journey. Even if you don't not much about the life of Van
Gogh this is an enthralling experience.

The monumental presence of the paintings is consistently exceptional
with wonderful detail and creation put into it. One of the sensational
efforts for the film is its sketch of the real actors, making them
instantly recognisable on screen, bringing their performance into the
art. Although our eyes are set on visual presence, Clint Mansell's
score is also a tear-jerking atmosphere throughout the film, capturing
the melancholy as well as joy of Van Gogh.

Loving Vincent is a visual sensation, proving the amazing talent that
animation brings to the screen. This is by far one of the most
significant films of the year and is must see experience, especially
for art students.
<|_=00=_|>
Last week, at the beautiful Getty Center, we had the chance to view a
pre-screening of the movie, 'Loving Vincent,' world's first
full-feature film made entirely with oil paintings. Loving Vincent
revolves around the mysterious death of the artist Vincent Van Gogh who
had created around 800 paintings in his lifetime. What could have been
much easily created as an animated or live action feature, ended up
being a compilation of over 66000 frames of oil paintings, brought to
life with camera movements on still life, CG animation, daunting music
and of course skills of over 100 artists. The concept of the movie is a
good enough reason to watch this movie but as for the movie itself:
read the review ahead!

The movie follows the journey of Armand Roulin as he investigates the
mysterious death of the artist Van Gogh. The movie retains an air of
suspicion and depression throughout. The pace of the storyline is slow
as it attempts to combine several theories regarding Van Gogh's death.
Yet the village panoramas and aerial shots of Paris add life to the
story. As the camera sweeps across the field or up a river as a steam
engine pass through the bridge above, one cannot help but notice how
beautifully the steam is blending in with the sky. 

The dialogues have been largely inspired by the letters that Van Gogh
wrote to his brothers but lack speech authenticity from the period.
However, the dialogues do exhibit the positions of all the characters
thoroughly, especially those of Armand Roulin and if not an instant
connection with the character, one does eventually the pain and sorrows
of Van Gogh towards his end days.

The death of Van Gogh was a loss to the world of art but the movie
'Loving Vincent' is a big leap in the world of art and fulfilling the
void of the amazing artist, and others like him who suffered because
they weren't mentally healthy.
<|_=00=_|>
Vincent Van Gogh was one of the world's most controversial painters,
both during his life, and after his death... This film is an
examination of the death of this famed artist. It questions the cause
of his death. Did he really commit suicide? Or was it something
else?... The movie asks the questions, but does not give answers,
letting the viewer have the final say...

The visual experience is intensely mesmerizing. A team of 100 artists
created the 65,000 hand-painted frames in the style of Van Gogh's
paintings, giving us a view inside Van Gogh's head, and enabling us to
see the world through his eyes...

The memorable film score is by the great composer Clint Mansell. As a
perfect companion to the story of suspicion and grief, the score
enriches the viewing experience while also succeeding as it's own
distinct, artistic composition...

The only stumble I see comes from the script. The plot is a retelling
of what we already know. The story-line is limited to the time of Van
Gogh's death, and it does not tell us that much about his work or his
life...

However, the film is a must-see for Van Gogh fanatics and all art
lovers...
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. For those skeptics who scoff when
filmmaking is described as an art form and labor of love, co- directors
Dorota Kobiela and Hugh Welchman invite you to take in their nearly
decade-in-the-making project. It's the first fully hand-painted on
canvas feature film - experimental filmmaking crafted by more than 100
artists and including an estimated 130 paintings, with 65,000
individual shots/frames. 

The spectacular visuals were created by painting over the images  both
of actors performing scenes and van Gogh's paintings. By adding to and
amending images, even 10 times or more, the scenes come to life with
movement and a pulsating psychedelic feel. The familiar colors of his
paintings create a level of connection, while black & white images are
used for flashbacks and reenactments. 

Though we have never seen this look on screen before (this goes beyond
Linklater's WAKING LIFE), the stunning visuals are accompanied by what
can be described as a detective story or murder/suicide mystery. It
picks up in 1891, one year after van Gogh's suspicious death. A local
Arles postman holds one last letter from Vincent to his beloved brother
Theo. Having held onto it for much too long, he asks his son Armand
Roulin to hand-deliver the letter to Theo. Sporting the yellow blazer
so recognizable from his portrait, the angry and skeptical Armand heads
to Paris. Little does he know, this is only the beginning of his
journey  a journey that finds him researching Vincent's life and a
journey that helps him discover more about himself.

There have been many movies made focusing on this amazing artist: LUST
FOR LIFE (1956), VINCENT (1987), VINCENT & THEO (1990), and VAN GOGH
(1991). This one is filled with contrasting and conflicting stories,
theories and recollections, and descriptions of events from those who
crossed paths with the artist on a daily basis. We listen right along
with Armand as he spends time in Avers-sur-Oise  where Vincent lived,
painted, and died.

Many of the actors involved are recognizable even in this artistic
format: Chris O'Dowd is the postman, Douglas Booth is Armand, John
Sessions plays art supplier Pete Tanguy, Eleanor Thompson is the
innkeeper's daughter Adaline, Jerome Flynn is the controversial Dr.
Gachet, Saoirse Ronan is Gachet's daughter Margarita (recognizable from
her piano portrait), Helen McCrory plays the disgruntled Gachet
housekeeper, Aidan Turner is the boatman, and Robert Gulaczyk is
Vincent. Since these folks were all part of van Gogh's artwork, we are
fascinated to see them come to "life". 

Vincent van Gogh picked up a brush for the first time at age 28. He was
dead at age 37, and left behind approximately 800 paintings of
portraits and landscapes  many among the most famous pieces in the
world today. Did he try to commit suicide as he claimed or was there a
more sinister explanation for his death? Of course the filmmakers only
hint at possible answers and can't solve a mystery that is approaching
two centuries. Understanding the man is challenging, and perhaps our
best hope is through the work he left behind. This is a compelling
cinematic experience and we have certainly benefited from the
filmmaker's labor of love. Clint Mansell's score leans heavily on
strings and piano, and is perfect accompaniment for the story. One
could question the closing credits use of Lianne La Havas' version of
"Vincent" (renamed "Starry Starry Night") rather than Don McLean's, but
one mystery per day is plenty. Spot the paintings, play detective, and
mostly enjoy the visuals built on the works of a complex, talented, and
tragic figure.
<|_=00=_|>
Every frame of this film is a painting. Think about that! They employed
100 artists to create 65,000+ frames to make this film. I loved the
idea that the audience is looking through the eyes of an artist--how an
artist might see. If that kind of thing interests you, you should go
see this film in the theater. It is stunning.

As for the narrative? Well, now, if you know anything about the history
of Van Gogh's life, you know it wasn't terribly happy. There is a lot
of drinking and smoking and despair to go around. They employ a plot
device involving a letter, and it works. Do not go in thinking there
will be thundering revelations about the life of the artist. But it
offers some quiet insights about some of the subjects of his paintings,
and I really loved this.

If you are familiar with Van Gogh's works and appreciate his
aesthetics, you owe it to yourself to go. A totally unique cinematic
experience.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one-of-a-kind movie and definitely a must for lovers of Van
Gogh. I studied art, therefore I was very interested in seeing how they
managed to produce new painting using his technique. The result is
visually striking. You can actually experience some of Van Gogh's
paintings coming to life, which is in itself pretty amazing.

However, a movie must also have a strong script, a good story to go
with the visual. The plot is about Armand Roulin, son of Joseph Roulin
- two frequent subjects of Van Gogh's portraits. In fact, the whole
Roulin family, inclusive of mum Augustine and her other two children
were painted several times by Van Gogh, while in Arles.

Joseph was Van Gogh's postman and in the movie he entrusts Armand to
deliver his last letter to brother Theo. Vincent and Theo's letters
were published at the beginning of the last century, shedding light on
their affectionate relationship, but not about Vincent's demise. 

Therefore, Armand sets out to investigate Vincent's last days. The tone
is somber and melancholic, somehow clashing with the beautiful visuals.
Van Gogh comes across as an enigmatic man who could be sweet and full
joy one moment and despondent the next - maybe suffering from bi-polar
disorder, but we'll never know.

The plot develops a bit slowly in the end we do not know much more of
what we knew at the beginning, but for sure we can retain the memory of
this fantastic pictorial voyage.
