
I give this movie an 8 out of 10. I think, technically, it deserves a 6
or 7. It hinges on the modern notion that a biopic isn't complete
unless we see all the nuances regarding the protagonist's family life.
That is not necessarily the fault of the filmmakers. I don't think a
picture can get funded if it doesn't adhere to these modern foibles. I
give it an 8, however, and, for its purpose alone, it deserves a 10.

It takes guts to make a movie like this today.

In the United States, we tend to get comfortable and forget that the
concept of freedom of speech is the most important idea any human being
has ever put forth. We tend to forget that the powers that be don't
like that idea. 

They really, REALLY don't like that idea. 

They want us lowly masses to be good little sheep and do what we're
told and think exactly the way they want us to think. We tend to forget
that fighting against that tendency of power is a struggle, a painful,
sometimes lethal struggle. Folks in other countries know about it. They
know all too well. That's why, in spite of all the other problems they
may have with the U.S., they still want to live here.

But we've gotten lazy. Not only are there forces on the extreme right
that would like to dictate how we live, think, and even breathe--now we
have a warring faction from the left, seen most prominently on college
campuses, that embraces censorship and the "shutting down" of
alternative opinions like little McCarthys on methamphetamine. The
concept of a "safe space," where no "offensive" opinions may be heard,
is nothing short of censorship. Defenders of this nonsense often make
the claim that the government is not getting involved, therefore, it's
not a violation of the First Amendment. Here's what's wrong with that
argument:

1. Remember our old friend Katherine Hepburn in Adam's Rib? In her
closing arguments, she says the law has two parts--the letter and the
spirit. It's true, by the letter of the law, students harassing and
banning speakers on campus they don't agree with does not equal the
federal government censoring those speakers. But it does violate the
SPIRIT of the First Amendment. The government, as the film Trumbo
clearly shows, cannot always be trusted to safeguard the LETTER of that
particular law. It is up to us, We the People, to safeguard the SPIRIT
of that law.

2. Trumbo shows us the horrific world where the government trampled on
the First Amendment from the top down. What is happening on college
campuses today is that violators of what is deemed "politically
correct" (a phrase originating from Mao's Cultural Revolution, which
should raise several alarms on that basis alone) are subjected to
kangaroo courts on the campus, away from legitimate, LEGAL courts of
law. They are harassed and humiliated (just as dissenters in the
Cultural Revolution were) with no legal recourse. If this practice
becomes accepted in normal society, we will have a political
environment no different from the times depicted in the film. The only
difference--this time, it we have started with the people and spread to
a government ready and willing to enact "speech codes" for its own
purposes.

By now, those who still, stubbornly, cling to the notion that there is
nothing wrong with what is happening on college campuses today will
have dismissed this review. They might even leave typical ad hominem
attacks on the message boards to make what attempts they can to silence
me (to kill the messenger, if you will). This should very well indicate
that what I've said is true.

The sane people reading this, no doubt, are asking what the heck this
all has to do with Trumbo.

Answer:

Everything.

Having been subjected to a kangaroo court on a college campus where I
was called in to the Title IX office for teaching Vonnegut's "Harrison
Bergeron," I couldn't help but think, as I watched Trumbo, of the
horrific witch hunt I was subjected to. That the film so easily earned
my empathy is a testament to how well it's made.

I wish everyone involved a long, healthy career in the movies. We need
more stories like this, stories that remind us the struggle to survive
as individuals in a world that so stubbornly clings to collectivism is
a never-ending battle. It's happened before. It's happening now. If we
don't speak up and resist, it will continue happening in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay. I'll admit that I gave this film a ten because it should have a
higher score altogether than the 7.3 it has, and I wanted to up it. But
a solid 8 at least or even a 9, for sure. There are at least two
reasons why this fine film is not getting a higher rating, I believe.
One is that there are many people (including critics) who look only at
it from a political standpoint, both left and right. And those on the
right are not going to like it no matter what, fine acting, writing or
whatever. The same in the left but conversely (and a smaller number).
Secondly, this is a slow and thoughtful film that will not go over with
many young viewers who are used to fast paced action and CGI content.
they will find neither in Trumbo. 

But, for students of history and for people who like a good story,
without the fluff, it is all here. Classic good vs evil dynamics
coupled with the inherent contradictions. The struggle of lost faith
and eventual redemption. And perhaps mostly, excellent social dynamics
especially centered around family loyalty and the struggle of holding
to ones personal values. 

As for the history, there is much here. As stated above more than any
film ever having dealt with the subject. Films like "the Front" and
"Guilty by Suspicion" are indeed good films that, especially at the
time where breaking ground for a more nuanced exploration of the
subject. That Trumbo is a biography is advantageous. A real biography,
not a overly fictionalized and caricatured profile of the era. This
despite that fact that some of the characters are fictionalized, they
nonetheless represent the experiences and attitudes of real people.
Louis C.K.'s Arlen Hird character being one. Dalton Trumbo may have had
a better time of it than most, such as Hird. It is thought by some that
the rising star of John Garfield was killed (literally-a heart attack)
by the effect of the HUAC on him. This was a time, as the film states
when people were fighting for their professional and personal life
against what could be called a creeping fascist tendency in the US
political environment. The fear and reaction and self promotion of many
(ie John Wayne, Hedda Hopper et al.) is evident here.

The writing is excellent. My hat goes off to John McNamara and Bruce
Cook for their adherence to historical accuracy and verisimilitude. The
dialog is remarkable and keep you involved. It keeps you thinking and
hits at an emotional level that few films do at all anymore. But it all
comes together with the excellent direction of Jay Roach. To bring
together the historical and personal is such a way is no small feat. He
deserves an Oscar (as do McNamara and Cook).

I could go on...but just see the movie. You won't regret it. You can
still watch Star Wars at Xmas...
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen so many documentaries about this era. The Hollywood
blacklist, McCarthyism. 

However, this takes a fresh, personal look at what happened. It shows
how folks actually handled this, rather than just the circumstances of
the time and newsreels of Congress hearings. How did they do it? This
shows the how and when, the risks. Of course, Trumbo captures the full
story of the persecution. 

Stay to the very end of the film, stay for the credits as some of the
clips they show are so meaningful. 

I don't know if Trumbo was the person shown in the film, but if he was,
he was an American hero. I think films like this represent the spirit,
the best or worst of the spirit of what happened.

Trumbo wasn't just a hero from the look of it, he was also a survivor
who made his way through the worst of it and came out on the other
side.
<|_=00=_|>
Trumbo (2015), which is based on the life of Dalton Trumbo, was
directed by Jay Roach. It stars Bryan Cranston as Trumbo.

Trumbo was the highest-paid writer in Hollywood, and he was really,
really good. Although it was legal to be a member of the Communist
Party, Trumbo actually went to jail because he wouldn't name names
before the House Un-American Activities Committee.

Sadly, many actors and screenwriters ran afoul of the HUAC witch-hunt.
Some named names. In this movie, that person is Edward G. Robinson
(Michael Stuhlbarg). (Historically, but not included in the movie,
director Elia Kazan did the same thing.)

The HUAC was supported by a cheering squad, among whose ranks was
gossip columnist Hedda Hopper, played brilliantly by Helen Mirren. 

The HUAC wasn't satisfied with sending people to jail. They wanted to
destroy them. They accomplished this by enforcing the blacklist. Anyone
on the blacklist couldn't find work in Hollywood. All doors were closed
to them. Some moved to Europe, others wrote and directed using
substitutes or false names.. Many of them were desperate, because they
were cut off from any income despite their the ability to work
effectively in their profession.

John Goodman is brilliant in the supporting role of Frank King, a
studio owner who has never overestimated the intelligence of the people
that flock to his Grade B movies. Diane Lane plays Dalton Trumbo's
wife, Cleo Trumbo. It's not really a great role, because she truly does
have to portray the long-suffering wife. Still, she manages to pull it
off. Helen Mirren plays Hedda Hopper. Hopper loves the fact that
millions of viewers read her column every day, and that gives her a
power that even studio heads don't have. Mirren is one of the great
actors of our day, and this is another movie where she demonstrates
just how great she is.

A positive aspect of this movie is that it shows a writer actually
writing. We get multiple scenes of Trumbo pounding on his typewriter,
fueled by alcohol and benzedrine. Most movies about writers show every
part of their lives except writing. Director Roach doesn't make that
mistake.

We saw Trumbo on the large screen at the excellent Little Theatre in
Rochester, NY. It will work almost as well on the small screen. Trumbo
may turn out to be the best film of 2015. Don't miss it!
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen some mixed reviews of Trumbo, and in a way I can understand
why it wouldn't impress some film critics. It is a movie where the
movie business, and especially movie personalities, are given over to
actors to play. It's not unlike a few years ago with the Anthony
Hopkins Hitchcock: you got a big cast and they all have roles to play
from people who, if you're a big movie buff (or even someone who just
knows who Kirk Douglas or John Wayne were, and that's probably a lot,
whether or not you know who Dalton Trumbo was entirely), there's an
aspect of 'Oh, he's or she is playing HIM or HER!' But I think with a
sharp enough script that sort of thing goes by the way-side, especially
if it gives the right actors some good stuff to play. There's nothing
about Trumbo that is especially complex, as it has the message that
most of us in 2015 would agree with: the Hollywood Blacklist, not just
what happened to the Hollywood 10 but many others, was a horrible
thing, and the thesis comes down to the idea that there were good and
bad people in it but it also came down to the nature of it all making
people victims... well, except for Hedda Hopper.

The movie is fun though whether or not you know a lot about the history
because of who is in the cast and especially Bryan Cranston as Trumbo.
He's a man who makes a lot of money in the 40's in Hollywood writing
scripts and yet is an avowed Communist (he makes the case to his
daughter in such a way early on in the film that some might question
but most of us would go 'huh, that's it then'). A lot of the conflict
comes because of what the history had right there: HUAC went after
people in Hollywood who were suspected 'traitors', but in reality were
just writers and (some) actors and directors who had affiliations with
the party, and thanks to pressure by columnist Hedda Hopper (played
here by Helen Mirren in a role that's deliciously evil) and John Wayne
(actor I can't remember but does a good impression without being
caricature-ish), a group got pressured. They didn't name names, were
held in contempt of court, found guilty and did time. Well, unless if
you were Edward G. Robinson (though he's shown in a somewhat
sympathetic light, maybe just by Michael Stuhlbarg being in the role).

The bulk of the story is about the 'front' that Trumbo led for himself
and other blacklisted writers such as stubborn/cancer-ridden Arlen Hird
(Louis CK, always a pleasure to watch, but especially in scenes with
Cranston). They used fake names to get their scripts made, even as they
had no choice for a while but to team up with filmmakers who were out
to just make "crap" (an echo in a way for me of Burton's Ed Wood with
the John Goodman character). There's some predictable drama that
unfolds - the all-business-all-writing part of Dalton that conflicts
with being a father and family-man and clashing with his daughter and
wife (very good Elle Fanning and Diane Lane respectively) - but what
helps it along all the way is just a sharp script and direction that
keeps things thematically strong.

This is serious stuff what happened to these people in Hollywood, and
director Jay Roach and writer John McNamara know that, all the way up
to a final speech from Trumbo upon winning a WGA award that puts things
into a perspective that (almost) makes Trumbo too fair to those who
really wronged him and his friends. But it's just full of wit an clever
lines; if you're a sucker for that, as I can be sometimes, then Trumbo
makes for a balance of the light and dark stuff. Again if nothing else,
Cranston makes someone who can easily be seen as a CHARACTER in bold
letters (and by many accounts that is who Trumbo was) and gives him
three dimensions and perspective on the situations that unfold. He does
things that may be wrong and provocative, in both bad and good ways,
and is told off enough that any of his short-comings become kind of
charming. I could've spent more time with his Trumbo and been happy,
especially in light of the history that unfolds here (i.e. Roman
Holiday, Spatacus, Exodus, other productions like The Brave One).
<|_=00=_|>
This film should be best film of the year for many reasons. For one it
challenges one's beliefs. Two it shows accounts of U.S. history and
third it demonstrates great courage.Dalton Trumbo's life was a
testament of the power of one's mind. Trumbo's life was amazing by
itself but the film made an autobiography come to life. Trumbo
accomplished more than most men ever will. He used his life
experience's, his quick thinking, and brilliance in writing and
politics to challenge the United States government. He also suffered
because of his bravery. This film is a great reminder of how flawed
this country can be despite being promoted as the land of the free.
America has many accounts of being unjust and oppressing that it has
conveniently for years hid. This film shows some accounts of this and
spotlights a brilliant writer and his equally gifted family members who
stood their ground and pushed forward against a system that for decades
had went unchallenged. Dalton Trumbo's life is inspiring and his wife
and daughter's characteristics seemed to mirror his dedication and
bravery. This is a great time period film and a must see if you are
part of the cinema community.
<|_=00=_|>
After practically having the frequently shown previews for Trumbo
memorized, I finally saw the film itself. (Though one trailer scene
with Helen Mirren didn't actually appear in the movie. Weird.) As you
undoubtedly know, Trumbo is the story of the Hollywood 10, writers
blacklisted during the communist witch-hunts of the late 1940s and
1950s. Joe McCarthy and all that. When called before the House
Un-American Activities Committee, Dalton Trumbo (played beautifully by
Bryan Cranston) and the other nine refused to give Congress information
about their beliefs or to rat out others in the film industry. As a
result, a number of them including Trumbo went to prison for contempt
of Congress ("I AM contemptuous of Congress," he said after the HUAC
hearing). He was in the slammer for 10 months and once he was out could
no longer get work. Meanwhile, some industry personagesin the movie,
producer Buddy Ross (Roger Bart) and actor Edward G. Robinson (Michael
Stuhlbarg)saw their careers going up in smoke and did testify (though
in real life, Robinson did not name names). The movie effectively
skewers that Great American Flag-Waving Hero, John Wayne, who managed
to avoid any military service during World War II and Korea. "If you're
going to act as if you won the war single-handedly," Trumbo tells him,
"it would be more believable if you'd actually served," as he and so
many of his black-listed colleagues had. They represent the tip of the
iceberg of people harmed by the virulent anti-Communism of the day, and
although the movie is about the Hollywood 10, it's really about the
Hollywood One, Trumbo, the most accomplished of the lot. The composite
character Arlen Hird has the unenviable job of being Trumbo's verbal
sparring partner and representing an amalgam of several of the
harder-line writers' views. Trumbo is unfailingly supportive of him,
even though he inserts his political views into scripts (which Trumbo
rewrites) and clearly doesn't trust Trumbo. (This is where the "You
talk like a radical, but you live like a rich man" line from the
trailer fits in.) While not a lot of acting was required of Diane Lane
as Trumbo's wife, she did a fine job, and Helen Mirren is perfect as
the odious Hedda Hopper, blackmailer without portfolio. As writer Hird,
comedian Louis C.K.'s acting inexperience shows a bit, as he's up
against such acting superstars, while John Goodman is all prickly
geniality and Alan Tudyk plays a credible Ian McLellan Hunter. Hunter
wins the Academy Award for the Roman Holiday script (the Gregory Peck,
Audrey Hepburn classic), but Trumbo wrote it. In fact, Trumbo and the
others write many screenplays for which they receive credit only
belatedly, if at all. The back of the blacklist can't be broken until a
few Hollywood luminaries are willing to give appropriate screen credit.
Directed by Jay Roach with a solid script from John McNamara. While in
their vision, the character of Trumbo doesn't change much over the
course of the storyexcept perhaps to learn not to take what he most
cherishes for granted"he is no more or less principled at the end than
he was at the start," said Anthony Lane in The New Yorker. He is
forgiving, though, and in the end acknowledges that all humans are a
mix of good acts and bad (except perhaps for Hedda Hopper). The real
opportunity for learning lies with the audience. While those
anti-Communist days may now seem rather quaintCongress taking on a
bunch of two-fingered typiststhere always are people who believe they
know best what other people should think, who believe others are too
dim or inattentive to grasp hidden political messages, who think
citizens are like children who have to be protected from difficult
ideas. That, the movie Trumbo seems to say, is still the danger.
Another film well worth the price of a ticket.
<|_=00=_|>
Truth may be stranger than fiction. This true story is way better than
all the current competing fictional concoctions. The lessons from this
story are more pertinent than ever, as fear of controversy limits the
fare at the cineplex to pablum or propaganda for the political
establishment. Trumbo won multi Oscars for his work, and his life as
told here, deserves another. We need more serious well done films like
this. Award nominations are deserved for writer, direction, lead actor,
ensemble/best picture. Special mention to the actors who undertook the
most difficult task of portraying those well know characters who lived
within living memory. These are most difficult roles and good
performances added so much to the film.
<|_=00=_|>
'TRUMBO': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

A biographical-drama flick, based on the life of successful Hollywood
screenwriter Dalton Trumbo; who was jailed, and blacklisted (in the
1940s), for his communist beliefs. The film stars Bryan Cranston, as
Trumbo, and it costars Diane Lane, Louis C.K., Helen Mirren, Elle
Fanning, John Goodman, Michael Stuhlbarg, Dean O'Gorman, David James
Elliott and Alan Tudyk. It was directed by Jay Roach, in his dramatic
directorial debut; following many popular comedy flicks (like 'MEET THE
PARENTS', it's first sequel, and all of the 'AUSTIN POWERS' movies).
The film was written by John McNamara, and it was based on the book
('Dalton Trumbo') by Bruce Cook. I found it to be very involving,
educational and inspiring.

In 1947, Dalton Trumbo (Cranston) was one of Hollywood's most
successful screenwriters; he was also a member of the extremely
controversial CPUSA (Communist Party of the USA). The party was so
threatening, to those in power, that many famous Hollywood figures, of
the time, were subpoenaed and jailed, for their beliefs (and refusing
to admit to the use of propaganda, in their work). Trumbo was one of 10
screenwriters, that fell victim to this paranoia. Upon release from
prison, he continued to work, under aliases, and attempted to expose
the injustice, of this abuse.

I didn't know a lot about the details, of these historical events; I
also knew very little about Dalton Trumbo. So for me, the movie was
very informative, and fascinating. It reminded me (a lot) of similar
political battles, and social struggles, still going on today. For
these reasons, I found the film to be extremely emotional. I also found
it to be very entertaining, because of it's insightful details, about
Hollywood (at that time). Cranston gives a very impressive performance;
and the supporting cast is all good as well (O'Gorman is especially
memorable, as Kirk Douglas). Roach might not have been the best
director, for this material, but the movie is still really memorable,
and enjoyable!

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/j9uf6E4pnlw
<|_=00=_|>
I wanna start by saying this is probably the most underrated movie of
2015, the fact that I have never heard any of my friends talk about is
a shame. This is not only an extremely entertaining movie, it is also
very educational. It is also a very daring movie and it sends a message
that many people most likely disagree with. It is definitely one of the
movies that have taught me the most and it teaches without being
boring, which is a hard thing to do. 

I have known for a long time what the blacklist was, but I have never
knew the serious consequences it had for the good people, that have
made some of the worlds best movies. I would say to anyone who is
interested in film history that this is one of the first movies they
should see. This movie brilliantly shows a part of history that most of
us sadly are unaware of. 

This movie takes up a very important issue and do it in the most
entertaining way possible I am almost certain that one of the biggest
reasons that this movie has a low rating is that people do not agree
with what the film stands for, and in 2015 I don't see how anyone could
not agree with this movies message. Which to me is, no matter what
political party you may belong to, or what ideas is in your head, or
which god you may pray to, you still have the same rights that every
human has, which in this case is making movies. Maybe it sends it
message a bit too hard, but I still think it done a great job, without
being too preachy. 

The acting is brilliant, definitely one of the best casts I have seen
in a long time. First Bryan Cranston gives a truly amazing performance
(as always) showing he is an almost better actor when he doesn't play
Walter White. There are so many great performances that I am just going
to name some of the ones I personally found best, Michael Stuhlbarg,
Diane Lane, Helen Mirren, Louis C.K. and many others. 

I am going to finish by saying this is both one of the best and the
most important biographical movies I have ever seen and I would
recommend to everyone. I hope you found this review helpful and I hope
you will love the movie as much as I do. 9/10
