
In case you don't know, "Son of God" is a spin-off of the successful
History Channel mini-series, "The Bible." The movie was filmed at the
same time as the show. In fact, it's the extended footage of the Jesus
section of the series. But there was a reason all of that footage was
cut. If it wasn't good enough for television, how can this possibly be
good enough for the cinema?

Well, it's not. This movie is a bore. With an unnecessary 138 minute
run-time, the film drags through dialogue delivered at a pace slow
enough for the slothful to keep up. Even then the script isn't
interesting. The selections of the gospel that get quoted are
mercilessly butchered. And that's another thing, if not the most
important criticism of a movie of this caliber -- the filmmakers had no
respect for the source material.

The story misses on minor and major elements. Anyone with anything
better than a felt-board understanding of Sunday school Bible stories
will be able to identify the inaccuracies. And they are many: from
theology to dialogue to locations to the people involved and the list
goes on. If the filmmakers don't care for even simple and easy details,
how can we believe that they care about the more complicated matters
addressed by the gospel of Jesus Christ? Sadly, they don't.

Truth be told, creators Roma Downey and Mark Burnett are New Age
believers. They soak up multiple forms of paganism, mysticism, and
spirituality -- like a lot of celebrities do. It doesn't take more than
a little bit of Googling to know what any celebrity believes. Yet the
American church has been duped into promoting this trite, vapid
representation of the Bible to make the Downey/Burnett couplehood a
fishing boat-load of cash.

It's no surprise that Joel Osteen, K-Love, T.D. Jakes, and Rick Warren
gobbled this thing right up. But Mark Driscoll, Louie Giglio, Focus On
the Family, Liberty University, and the Women of Faith conferences
should have done their research and known better. "Oh, she was in
'Touched By an Angel' and he made 'Survivor' and they claim to be
Christians and God told them to make this! Let's promote the hell out
of it!"

The Jesus portrayed in "Son of God" is not the Jesus of the Bible. In
the vein of the film being just downright boring, Diogo Morgado puts
forth one of the worst depictions of Jesus I've ever seen. He's pretty
passionless, as is the rest of the disciples and the attitudes of the
crowds who follow him. The climax and resolution of the story don't
resonate because the previous hundred minutes of the movie haven't
given us any reason to care.

Whether you're arguing from a theological standpoint, or just as a
movie-lover, the film is devoid of content. It's worthless. There's
nothing redeemable about this film. Save the money, save the time. And
for heaven's sake, know your Bible. As long as the church is out there
ready to promote anything with the word "God" on it, we're going to get
horrible material like this.
<|_=00=_|>
I do have to take exception with the reviews that declare this movie
'boring' because it didn't go all out with special effects  or quote
entire passages of the Bible. I thought that this movie was trying to
portray a humble man who was simply going about the business of living
out his destiny. Which is exactly who Jesus was. I found it refreshing
not to have a slam-bang all-out special effects, miracle exploding on
the screen, drama-in-you-face version of this life. The important
points were there. In fact, just the important moments and quotes that
were needed and wanted. I kept thinking as I'm watching, how could
anyone have doubts about this Son of God when it was all such a life as
usual, normal people time and yet.and yethere we are 2014 years
later, and this is still the most important person who ever walked on
this earth. And everyone knows His name and what He did and who He was.
No. This movie was precisely what it needed to be and no more. I took
extra tissue, but still it wasn't enough. Watching the end of the
earthly life of My Lord was so painful, so heart-rending that, indeed,
I cried as much as I feared I would. Maybe more.
<|_=00=_|>
For those who are expecting a repeat of the Mel Gibson movie, then
prepare to be disappointed ... or pleasantly surprised. This movie is
the sanitized version of the Gibson extravaganza. It is the movie that
Gibson would have made if he had decided to ease off on the gratuitous
depictions of violence. Depicting violence in a movie about Christ is
unavoidable; it is part of the story. The violence has to be shown. The
question is: how, without the violence itself becoming the main theme?
This movie sticks to the story about Jesus; the violence is a part of
the story. He is beaten, mocked, scorned, discredited, tortured,
crucified and murdered. The story is told in its entirety. Yet, the
director succeeds in telling the story in a straightforward
non-sensationalist manner. By emphasizing Christ's humanity he brings
the audience into the story. Regardless of your religious beliefs, one
can relate to Jesus, his ministry and what he is trying to accomplish.
His actions are plausible and understandable. His preaching is simple,
sensible and comprehensible. His suffering and anguish is pitiful; his
resurrection miraculous. Here the movie is strongest. Unlike the Gibson
film, the resurrection is given full treatment and concludes the movie
on a positive note, which is appropriate. The story of Jesus Christ
requires no embellishment; it speaks for itself. Jesus was born,
conducted his ministry, was betrayed, and was sacrificed. This is how
the story is depicted in this movie. What more should anyone expect?
<|_=00=_|>
Wowsers! If you're interested in a TV movie on the big screen than this
is the movie for you. Featuring a Portuguese actor playing Jesus
(because Son of God forbid that an actual Middle Easterner played Jesus
in a Jesus movie, lest the Faithful go wild) it is literally the Jesus
part of The Bible miniseries that played on cable last year with some
extra scenes. The production values are exactly what you'd expect for a
TV movie - horrible. 

They were hoping for a Passion of the Christ like hit, but the movie is
almost gone from theaters and it's not even Easter. Ticket sales fell
61% in it's second week , even though it expanded into more theaters.

If you want a good movie about Jesus, Passion of the Christ is where
it's at.
<|_=00=_|>
Jumps are an absolute sin in cinema! That movie has quite a few of
them. The music sounds ripped off from "I am" in "music inspired by the
story" album. The acting is not at all convincing. This movie was
released in 2014! I mean seriously? Jesus of Nazareth was better than
that AND IT WAS RELEASED IN 1977! Special effects could be done by
Arabs 20 years ago, and I hate Arabic cinema, it is truly awful.

About the story itself... Well, it goes against the bible itself!

-Every visitation from the angel looks like some kind of hypnotism.
-Joseph's nightmare is so wrong -The call of Peter was way off. Why
does Jesus call him peter right then anyways? Why aren't any other
disciples there? -There are quite a few time line mistakes. I mean...
Paul's conversion 40 days after the resurrection for instance. For that
to happen, Paul must be known as a persecutor, the disciples must be
filled with the Holy Spirit, and must have started preaching and
converting people for quite a while, and have started reaching out to
far away places. Damascus is not right next to Jerusalem you know.
-John the baptist's story is wrong. Way off.

The whole story felt like a whole Jewish plot to take the blame away
from Jewish leaders and put it on the Romans. Judas, the son of
perdition, is not the son of perdition anymore. He is a good guy that
was tricked by religious leaders for the sake of the nation. The
leaders are against Jesus not because of the challenge He poses to
their authority, but because of political tension with the Romans.

All miracles and acts of love during Jesus' time on earth have been
removed. And the one he does looks like Disney witchcraft. In the
movie, His prayer in the garden was not to follow the father's plan,
but to be spared, and that prayer was rejected basically. Jesus feels
like a helpless peaceful dude at the hands of religious leaders forced
to act as they do because of oppression. All key phrases in the bible
have been removed. In communion, he just says he is gonna die, then
"this is my body. This is my blood." I mean, nothing else, no
proclamation, all places where he was shown as the son of God were
removed. Except for one instance: The trial (too cliché).

This movie is also trying too hard to please the Jews, focusing on
feasts, rituals and such. Poor threatened guys can't take much more,
especially when Jesus threatens to destroy the temple, by "jokingly"
saying that no stone will remain upon the other to a little girl.

There are so many details wrong, so many core principles that were
twisted! The whole story looks like what happened could be a machinery
by Jesus.

I get angry thinking about this movie because people who watch it
without reading the Bible will have a wrong picture of Jesus, of the
father, of the bible, of Christianity. It is like all real contact
between Jesus and the Father was cut off. Jesus became a helpless but
really clever poor man who relied on supporters to avoid death, until a
point where it became too much.

Too many places where it tries to copy the passion of the Christ but
fails epically.

This movie is not worth watching! Unless you are a Jew or engaged in
freemasonry and need consolation after "the passion of the Christ" or
really want to get people lost. It adds nothing to cinema, to religion,
to entertainment, or anything else.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is an embarrassment. A wimpy, insecure Jesus spends two
hours wandering around in a long, hippy-esque robe, hitting the high
points of the Gospels and not even getting them right! I was mentally
correcting Jesus the entire film, as only half the quote would be
correct: The "Our Father" (you know, the quintessential Christian
prayer...) left out the final line: "lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil." Not surprising, as evil was a completely
non-existent theme in this movie about Christ- Who came to save us from
sin and evil. Kinda a huge deal that was totally skipped over. Most
striking to me of all was that you never sensed that Christ had a
Presence. He seemed like a total wimp. And yet in His time, the people
said, "What manner of man is this, that even the waves and sea obey
Him?" Christ was strong, and His presence was compelling: men left
family and livelihood and followed Him, such was the force of His
personality. The Jesus of Son of God- honestly, I wouldn't even want to
grab a beer with Him, much less be crucified upside down rather than
denounce my faith in Him (Peter's death). Bottom line: if you are a
practicing Christian and/or very familiar with the New Testament, don't
go. The constant misquoting/leaving out key portions/ totally missing
the entire point of a dialogue will drive you batty. If you're not
Christian, definitely don't go. It's embarrassing to us Christians.
<|_=00=_|>
I've always been fascinated by people who write historical fiction and
fan fiction. I like the idea of taking either characters from history
or established characters of fiction, and creating new stories or
extended back-stories about them. It's the creative license granted to
writers that allows them to use their imagination to conjure up new
stories. It breaks my heart to say Son of God might as well be
historical fiction.

I premise everything by saying I am by no means a Biblical scholar. I
am proud of how far I have come in my faith journey having read the
Bible more in the last three years than I had in all my time previous
to that. Furthermore, I am light-years away from being where I'd like
to be in terms of being versed in Scripture, and every day I discover
something new and different about the Good Book. That being said, it
was surprising to me how much I knew and recalled about the story of
Jesus. In the context of viewing the film, I found myself questioning
lots of points along the way.

The movie begins with a voice over. The narrator is John, author of one
of the four gospels. From that moment on, I assumed - and maybe this is
where I went wrong - the movie is a portrayal of Jesus' life as told by
the Book of John. Not exactly.

For starters, there are changes in chronology from the movie to the
Gospel of John. Jesus going to Jerusalem and chasing out the merchants
occurs early in John (John 2:13-21), but in the movie, that scene is
presented much later. The movie also omits what I consider to be major
moments in the life of Jesus, such as the performance of His first
miracle at the Wedding in Cana, and the testimony of John the Baptist.

Another example: In the movie, Jesus learns of Lazarus' death, is taken
to his tomb, whereupon He enters the tomb, declares to Lazarus, "I am
the Resurrection," and brings Lazarus back to life. According to the
Gospel of John, Jesus declaration about being the Resurrection was made
to Martha (John 11:25), and Jesus never entered the tomb of Lazarus.
Instead, He called out to Lazarus from outside the tomb, "Lazarus, come
out!" (John 11:43).

The arrest of Jesus gets overly complicated if we're again expecting
the movie to be told from the perspective of John. When they come to
arrest Jesus, Peter lashes out, grabs a sword, and slices off the ear
of one of the high priest's servant. In the movie, Jesus tells Peter,
"He who lives by the sword dies by the sword." Jesus then proceeds to
heal the ear of the servant. Biblically speaking, this did happen.
However, the matter of the sword is accounted in the Gospel of Matthew
(Matthew 26:52), and the healing of the ear in the Gospel of Luke (Luke
22:51). John's telling of the arrest of Jesus is completely different.

Pivotal in the story of Jesus' arrest is Peter's denial of Jesus. We
all know the story: Peter declares his loyalty to Jesus, a loyalty for
which he is willing to die. Jesus replies, ""Die for me? I tell you the
truth, Peterbefore the rooster crows tomorrow morning, you will deny
three times that you even know me." (John 13:38). Peter did go on to
deny Jesus three times, with a time gap between the first and second
denials. In the movie, Jesus tells Peter he will deny Him 'before the
sun comes up tomorrow'. In the next scene, it's already daylight, and
Peter goes on to deny Jesus in one, quick, thirty second scene.

One final criticism is the portrayal of Pontius Pilate as a blood-
lusting, brutal, and barbaric governor who couldn't care less about the
Jewish people he was governing. Growing up, I only knew of Pilate as
the reluctant one who did not want to condemn Jesus to death. The
phrase "I wash my hands of this" is derived from Pilate's reluctance as
accounted in Matthew 27:24. The writers of the movie chose to portray
Pilate as an over-the-top and cruel prefect with only selfish
intentions and ambitions. To make matter's worse, the film makes the
character of Pilate's wife a somewhat pivotal figure. She's mentioned
in scripture only once (Matthew 27:19) and not by name. In the film,
she has a recurring presence that is based solely on the imaginative
interpretation of the screenwriter.

This brings us back to the issue of creative license. I understand many
of my points can easily be dismissed as nitpicking. As I discussed the
movie with my friends, they brought up valid points about the positive
message of the film and how Jesus is portrayed as loving and
courageous. I get that, and I agree the film has its merits. However,
my concern is that in the end, the movie is deceiving anyone who
doesn't know Jesus and confusing those who do.

Taking creative liberties with former presidents or characters from a
vampire series is wholly inconsequential. We the audience understand it
is fiction. As followers of Christ, however, we believe God's Word to
be the living truth, and I recoil at the idea of re-writing the gospels
for the sake of theatrical gain. What's worse, there's no need to do
it. The story of Jesus is a beautiful and inspiring story. What the
producers of this film have done is, instead, to present Jesus in a
cartoonish manner. The writing comes across as if someone put together
the script not with a Bible in hand, but rather with a series of
Cliff's Notes of the four gospels.

"I am the way, the truth, and the life." (John 14:6). Those are Jesus'
own words. When telling His story, it's my personal opinion that is
should be as close to the truth as possible.
<|_=00=_|>
Since so many so-called "Christians" are reviewing this movie and
ripping it to shreds, I thought I should write a review to give a more
balanced opinion. There will be spoilers in my review, so let me just
start by saying that it was entertaining and it had its moments. If you
are the kind of Christian who thinks that "Only the King James Version"
of the Bible is correct, or anybody else who doggedly clings to their
own "Traditions" then do not go see it, this movie is not for you.

The movie is, however, for the masses of people who have never heard of
Jesus, or who have only heard about Jesus, but they've never read the
Bible. About half the material in the movie comes from quotes from the
Bible, sometimes juxtaposed around so they are not correct in a strict
temporal sense (as most of us would put things in some timeline sense
anyway) but it's alright, I won't fault the movie makers for that. The
point is they put all that material in there and tried to get quotes
accurate, whether they be from King James, or other translations is
somewhat beside the point. Some are a bit liberal, and there a few
minor issues with other claims made in the movie.

What else they threw in, generally, is the historical struggle between
the Jews of Judea with the Romans at the time of the historical Jesus.
My opinion is they did a credible job of adding drama and historical
fiction (extrapolated dialog) between the Pharisees and the Sanhedrin
(the Jewish ruling Council) and the Romans, as well as the betrayal of
Jesus by Judas Iscariot. They also threw in another shady character
which at least adds another dimension to the story, again based on a
historical person named Barabbas.

While the movie was not "Epic" in scope or proportion, and certainly
not in cinematography, I gave it a relatively high score (8/10) for its
effective acting and tender moments. If you are a Christian, you better
ask yourself: "Could I act and play Jesus?" Any Christian certainly had
better answer "No!" first, and then say, well I could try. And I'm here
to tell you that the fellow in the movie did a credible job. The book
of Isaiah tells us that "We esteemed him not" and the meaning is that
Jesus had nothing to distinguish Him as God. We could look at Him and
see a perfectly ordinary person. It's only once you have met Him and
gotten to know who He is that you worship Him.

So, in that sense, I believe this movie will introduce a lot of folks
to the real Jesus, the Jesus of the Bible. I believe it will make them
thirsty for more, which will make them want to read the Bible and get
to know Him for who He really is. He is not dead, He is alive, and any
person on this earth today can come to know Him.
<|_=00=_|>
All of the most palatable servings heaped onto one plate. Perfect for
cafeteria Christians everywhere. YAWN. This is certainly not Ten
Commandments. I suppose having a miniseries chopped up and served as a
two-hour sacred cash cow with modern production values is going to be a
breath of fresh air for the kneeling masses. You've likely seen it
before, and the story never changes(that's the spoiler). Now, don't
dismiss me as some bitter atheist, panning a flick you will hold dear
to your heart. I love biblical epics, but I prefer to stick to the
classics. Son of God is nothing new; it is just HD. That's likely
enough for the mega-church crowd. One reviewer stated, "Don't
over-think it". That is the sum of the parts for Son of God. Pay your
cash, stop thinking, and gush about how you feel even closer to Jesus
after watching it. Mark Burnett will thank you for it. I'm going to go
watch the Lego Movie. ...because Lego is real.
<|_=00=_|>
Over two hours of random quotes from the Bible, incorrectly tied
together to form an incoherent story. Bad Romans. Good Christians.
Every scene, including those with the ultra fake looking city-wide
views, is blown out of proportion. All have Jesus, in some weird
pseudo-accent, spewing famous quote after quote all amounting to
nothing more than a colossal waste of money. Produced by two people who
think themselves biblical scholars, but come off as juvenile frauds.
The Passion of the Christ was far superior. This was just wrong. If the
idea was to bring the story to the masses, all that was accomplished
was an insult to the masses intelligence and piety.
