
I seem to be forced to write a review every now and then to counter the
teens and 20 somethings that think they need to review every freaking
thing in front of their heads. As an adult I can say comparatively
speaking in regards to Exorcism, Possession, Evil doings and all things
of the nether world this flick is worth the ticket. Aaron plays his
role out fantastically (enough that I teared up at times) and until the
end of the movie you will see the moments that hearken back to the
decades previous releases but this one certainly offers a unique twist
on the understanding of good vs. evil.

I found myself nodding early on as a former Catholic and someone who
just read way too much to keep believing in Santa Clause or religious
super heroes I will say that I have plenty of room in my mind for
universe yet untold that retains the secrets of untold, infinite
galaxies (Hubble has scratched the surface and soon a new version of
Hubble will be hurtling around the Earth).

The cast is just fine and spot on with the sincerity in which they
convey their emotional portrayals. I know full well there have been
other releases over the last 7 years that fulfill most of the
requirements of this genre but Incarnate has heart and an emotional
connection I thought was somewhat left out or diminished in the other
movies of this similar nature.

As we hear Aaron's arch nemesis character say in the movie "There are
some things far worse than death"
<|_=00=_|>
As a die-hard horror fan, a fan of Demonic Possession films, and a fan
of great acting, I immediately wrote off this movie as being another
Hollywood cash grab. Blumhouse is the worst thing to happen to horror
since Rob Zombie started making movies, so seeing as this is another
bullet to add to their arsenal in murdering the horror genre, I was
weary about watching it. Couple that with the film not having any
marketing up until a few weeks before it was released, and all of the
signs pointed to a very half-a$$ed film to join the ranks of all of the
other failed horror films of the last 10 years. After watching it,
however, I am very glad to have been proved wrong. Incarnate ended up
being original, entertaining, and the acting was really top notch,
especially that of the three leads.

The problem I have with Possession films is that they rarely deviate
from the formula; girl is possessed. Family calls priest. Priest needs
okay from Vatican. Priest battles demon. One of more people die. The
end. That has been the premise of every possession film of the last few
years. Surprisingly, this movie goes completely left field, not
adhering to any of the clich√©s that make the genre so deathly stagnant.
The demon is now a "spirit parasite", the girl is replaced by a boy,
there is no Catholic priest in sight, and the people who die actually
deserve it this time. The movie does so many things right that it is
really easy to overlook the things is gets wrong, and everything from
the special effects to the script is written with an actual
appreciation of what makes these movies entertaining in the first
place. Sure, some parts are cheesy and straight out of the horror
handbook, but when they are handled this well, does anyone really care?
It's much better than the abominations we have gotten in the past, like
The Last Exorcism or The Vatican Tapes.

Overall, if you like Possession films, good acting, and movies that are
not made for children and teenagers, give this film a shot. You just
might like what you see. I was thoroughly impressed by this, and
although Blumhouse has a long way to redeeming itself, this is a great
first step. A solid effort all around.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not going to try to dazzle everybody with my huge vocabulary or my
expansive expertise on films, but I do know what I like, and I liked
this movie. It takes an unorthodox approach to exorcism, not by
treating it with priests, crucifixes, and holy water, but by treating
the demon as a parasite that attaches itself to its host. Once the
demon (parasite) attaches itself to the host, it invades their mind and
creates an elaborate illusion (or dream state) based on what the host
desires most. In turn, that keeps the host compliant while the demon
consumes the soul.

Dr. Seth Ember (Aaron Eckhart) is a scientist with the gift of going
into the possessed person's mind and performing what he calls
"evictions" instead of exorcisms. In this movie, it is not a matter of
faith or lack thereof. There is no God or specific religion tied to
this, it involves pure science. He invades their minds bringing the
truth with him in an effort dismantle the illusion. If he successfully
tears down the walls and exposes the lie before his own body gives out
within 8 minutes, he releases the power the demon has over the host. In
essence, he goes in and kicks the demon out, or "evicts" them if you
will. The demon must evacuate immediately by either entering another
host through physical contact (touch), or the demon dies.

In his last case, a familiar she-demon has inhabited the body of an 11-
year-old boy and Seth and his research team are called in by the
Vatican to help the child because exorcisms have already failed and he
doesn't have much time left. Of course, Seth already knows this demon
very well. I'll just leave it at that...

I would be lying if I said that this concept has not already been
explored. I know plenty people would like to give credit to Inception,
but the truth is, this idea was explored way before Inception. For me,
thrillers like The Cell (2000) with Jennifer Lopez and Vincent
D'onofrio, as well as Fallen (1998) with Denzel Washington, and The
First Power (1990) with Lou Diamond Phillips all came to mind. There
are also certain themes and elements of this movie that is reminiscent
of Insidious (2010) and The Exorcist (1973). While these movies are not
entirely the same, the overall premise is still very similar. However,
I think what sets this apart from those films is the "eviction"
concept. This is a new angle for exorcising demons that hasn't been
explored, and for that, I thank Brad Peyton. I'm always looking for
some kind of originality which is extremely hard to find in movies
these days, so I like to give credit where it's due.

Don't get me wrong, the film is not perfect by any means, but I do
appreciate what the Director was trying to do. I would recommend giving
this a chance. The year is coming to a close, so it's definitely not
the worst movie this year has had to offer that's for sure. Trust me,
there have been worse, and I've probably seen most of them.

Either way, I've prepared myself to be down voted by the "experts."
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a fan of Aaron Eckhart so that was my main draw to see Incarnate.

The good: The film doesn't insult you by explaining everything at once,
it does this through the action and dialogue sequences which are OKAY.
Aaron delivers a solid performance here, and so does David Mazouz, the
kid that plays Bruce Wayne in the Gotham TV series. The story is
moderately interesting and reminds me a bit of Inception.

The Meh/Bad: The directing is often a bit ham-fisted and clunky. The
script wasn't particularly brilliant but was OKAY. Didn't care much for
the cop-out ending although that's a minor complaint.

Bottom line is, don't expect a masterpiece or above average film. Its a
nice film to kill an hour and a half with.
<|_=00=_|>
In New York, the boy Cameron (David Mazouz) lives with his Dutch mother
Lindsey (Carice van Houten) that is divorced from his alcoholic father
Dan (Matt Nable). One night, Cameron overhears a noise in the kitchen
and is attacked by a homeless; however he kills the man, breaking his
neck. The Vatican representative Camilla (Catalina Sandino Moreno)
summons the scientist Dr. Ember (Aaron Eckhart) to help the boy that is
possessed and the exorcism is not effective. Dr. Ember has the ability
to enter in the mind of people possessed by demons and bring them back
to reality in a dangerous procedure with the support of his team
composed by Oliver (Keir O'Donnell) and Riley (Emily Jackson). When Dr.
Ember visits Cameron, he realizes that the boy is possessed by the
insidious demon Maggie, who killed his wife and son in a car accident.
Will Dr. Ember succeed in destroying Maggie and saving Cameron?

"Incarnate" is an entertaining film with a flawed storyline with a
combination of "The Matrix" and "The Exorcist". The return of the
possessed person from the dream to the real world does not use a red
pill but a treasured object that brings recollection to the owner.
There are at least two casualties (the homeless and Dan) in Lindsey 's
apartment with no investigation from the police. Why the demon at the
priest's house need to cut his neck? The screenplay should have been
more careful in details. The conclusion is open to interpretation maybe
with the author using a hook for a sequel. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): Not Available
<|_=00=_|>
The movie takes some getting use to as it's a little off on genres. 

Not a typical ghost story, Aaron Eckhart plays a doctor Who takes a
very non religious method in exercising demons by using a gift he has
to enter the minds of those "infected" by supernatural parasites and
evicting as he calls it, the spirit by making its host realize that the
perfect world the demon has created in its dreams is not real.

I was kinda expecting more of a horror movie theme but it's not that.
that's what is a little off. It's not scary and it's not trying to
scare you (At least I think, cause if it is it does do a bad job of
it). It feels more like it's exploring or expanding the concept of a
religious-less exercisium with a little background story to keep it
interesting and keep it moving.

But it's a good movie to watch.

http://cinemagardens.com
<|_=00=_|>
Incarnate is basically Inception with a horror angle. Nevertheless, its
premise is undoubtedly attractive; Dr. Ember doesn't employ a Christian
iconography to pull his "exorcisms" (which he calls "expulsions"), and
he doesn't consider invading spirits to be really demons (even though
the Vatican thinks otherwise). According to Ember, the possessions are
simple infections of psychic parasites, and his mental skills challenge
the clich√©s of the films about exorcisms, offering a more scientific
(well, pseudo-scientific) vision which opens new doors of speculation
and mysticism. I'm not saying that that is more "credible" than the old
standard of Christian demons, but it's certainly a creative focus.
Aaron Eckhart credibly expresses Ember's dysfunctional personality, as
well as his need to get redeemed for a tragedy in his past. Catalina
Sandino Moreno is appropriately ambiguous as an emissary of the Vatican
who does believe in demons, and doesn't care about the method used by
Ember. And finally, Carice van Houten, Matt Nable and Emily Jackson
also bring solid works in their roles. So, Incarnate is a horror film
with a well written screenplay and good performances from the whole
cast. However, I didn't find it completely satisfactory, due to the
weak direction from Brad Peyton, who doesn't show too much enthusiasm
for the material, while making the movie languish instead of exploiting
with horror and suspense. I think Incarnate needed a much more
perceptive director, with solid knowledge about the genre in order to
take much more advantage of the interesting concepts of Incarnate,
increasing the suspense and enriching the visual aspect. Anyway...
Incarnate had the potential of being a hidden gem of modern horror, but
Peyton's direction sabotaged the experience to a certain point, making
it just be a decent entertainment which makes us think a bit.
<|_=00=_|>
I was fuming by the time I left the theatre.

I cannot begin to tell you how much I absolutely loathe that a premise
that has so much potential gets butchered the way this one did.

We finally get a main character who could be so unique ¬ñ not only is he
a scientist, which finally takes away the only approach made on these
movies which is the religious one ¬ñ but he can also get in people's
minds. And what do we get instead? The epitome of all clich√©s. And
there are so many of them, don't even get me started. There is the
scruffy grief-stricken widower with nothing to lose, a religious crisis
and a long time vendetta, there are his couple of sidekicks with the
fancy aura reading machines (except here they are ion charges or
something), and the secretive mentor and the deadly serum that the mc
says he is never going to use but you so know he is gonna ¬ñ and the
rest is just filler for something that could be truly creepy.

Incarnation grabbed my attention from the get go, particularly with
that initial dance club scene, which featured the most perfect song for
the moment and gave me an almost Matrix vibe. We quickly know what is
going on, what our main guy is capable of doing and how he is doing it
¬ñ all through the natural sequence of the story, not because the
information is dumped on the viewer. And that approach pretty much
stops there.

From that point on it all went downhill. There are so many plot holes
(Why call it Maggie?? Even the demons called it Maggie! It's the name
of an innocent woman, for crying out loud. Why does Ember need to
almost die if he says he found out about his ability while he was
sleeping? Why not just give him a powerful sedative? Why did the entity
target Ember so particularly? I mean, if it wanted to keep possessing
people it should have left him minding his own business, not helping
anyone cause he was just trying to lead a normal life, right? Why was
the boy not tied up if it was so dangerous for him to touch anyone?
Come to think of it, why did it just stand there? Why did people touch
Ember on the street seconds after yelling for people not to touch him?
There is so much more but I forgot it in the meantime), the dialogues
are cringe-worthy, whatever information needs to be delivered is dumped
without much context, the kid's mother has no heart and doesn't really
seem concerned for her son's well-being, she is actually doing Ember a
favour of allowing him to help the boy and the way things developed is
just why I tend to stay away from movie theatres for months in a row.
Worst of all, something that could be incredibly original turned out to
be a total rip off of a movie I watched many moons ago, right down to
the way it ended. Except the other one took place in some woods, I
think.

*sigh*

There were definitely interesting touches here and there like the
detail of the watches stopping, the fact that Ember is in a wheelchair
provided some exciting scenes, and even the ending, despite being a
total rip-off, had a bittersweet tinge to it considering what Felix had
told Ember. However, overall I cannot say Incarnate is worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
With the horror genre running on a low tank of original ideas, this
film continues on a string of uninspiring horror flicks with nothing to
grant beyond formula and rundown clich√©s. That is not say to director
Brad Peyton could not have made this idea work, even if it involved
retreading a few seen-it-before elements. Unfortunately, his execution
and the competent performances by the cast including Aaron Eckhart fail
to save this movie from falling to a drivel. The only thing keeping
this movie from falling into absolute obscurity maybe Peyton's small
delivery of thrills that manage to once or twice and the performances
the cast manages to dig up. Nonetheless, it is a thoroughly forgettable
ride from nearly start to finish. So what is the story here? Aaron
Eckhart plays Dr. Seth Ember, a paranormal scientist with the ability
to enter inside other people's minds and cast out the demons that
plague them. Ember himself suffers from a troubled past with the death
of his wife and son in a car accident. When a young boy named Cameron
Sparrow (played by David Mazouz) is unexpectedly possessed by a demonic
entity, his mother (played by Carice Van Houton) must enlist the help
of Ember and his colleagues Camilla (played by Catalina Sandino Moreno)
and Oliver (played by Keir O'Donnell) to journey inside Cameron's
subconscious mind in order to fight off the demon that possesses him.

The movie is not completely devoid of scares, at least after the first
third when the plot finally kicks in. Sadly, the scares come very few
and far in between to the point where it hammers you with the urge to
check your watch multiple times before the end credits appear. The film
spends most of its time borrowing elements of films like 'Insidious'
which follows a concept nearly identical to this one with a child being
possessed and another human forced to enter through their mind to save
them. In the process, it wastes its already-short potential on cheap
jump scares and creepy imagery that never quite lands. Is the sight of
people turning their eyes black and morphing into demons supposed to be
scary? Is adding enough blood and gore to push the PG-13 rating to the
brink supposed to add a sense of tension? If so, Brad Peyton certainly
fails to make both of these work here. The film also has some
half-successful attempts at emotional resonance which is greatly
incorporated in Dr. Seth Ember's background dealing with the loss of
his wife and child in a car wreck, and Ember hoping to gain redemption
from performing this experiment on Cameron. In terms of acting, Aaron
Eckhart does okay but clearly seems bored in the role. Carice Van
Houton does her job in the role of the child' mother as does David
Mouzez as the creepily possessed kid. But it is enough to raise spend
chills down your spine? Unless you are easily scared back by a child
talking in a demonic voice, there is nothing to be truly startled
about.

Incarnate is a disappointing supernatural horror piece that offers more
of a snoozer than a satisfying scarefest. By the end, it is very easy
to forget about that. Brad Peyton tries to invent a good horror
picture, but his efforts come to frail results.
<|_=00=_|>
the movie isn't as bad as it is rated here by the users.it is well
planned and well executed. the story is really gripping and keep you
engage until the end. this isn't the kind of movie which thrives on
horror or want you to jump from your seat. this is a mystery which
unfolds with something you want to see. i enjoyed the movie and it
delivered what i wanted to see. certainly some things are there which i
didn't understand, may be a second watch will clear it.
