
...till the Movie showed more. I may be biased 'cause De Niro has
always been my favourite actor, but I believe he accepted this role
because it is indeed a nice variation on the theme. It may seem the
"same" gangster stuff with his moves and faces we all know well, but it
is also different, deeper, wider. And, it delivers a nice message. So,
De Niro is surely not one of those actors who have to accept any role
just to survive. He can select what to do, and if at the beginning of
the movie I thought "why did you accept to do once again an
over-the-top sort of gangster which you did 10000 times and adds
nothing more to your repertoire?", now I am sure that he accepted this
role because he believed in it, as I do now too. All other actors were
also very good, specially Jeffrey Dean Morgan, whom I do not mean to
reduce to a "mix of Javier Bardem and Bruce Willis", but he does indeed
remember me of both. This is not a masterpiece and it does not shake
the art of Cinema, but it is a very nice movie which flows fast and
does not leave you empty.
<|_=00=_|>
Alright guys, before I start I must warn you that this is my second
IMDb review and I don't speak English as my primary language, so this
review may look pretty retarded, but that doesn't mean I won't do my
best to share my thoughts on this movie with you.

Okay, I saw it few days ago and I must admit that I wasn't
disappointed. I thought it will be a clich√© when I saw the trailers and
read the plot, but I was obviously wrong. I liked it, because it was
thrilling from the beginning to the end, the actors were amazing and
the action was realistic. The plot was fine, although I've noticed few
plot holes in it. I didn't like the screenplay much, too, but let me
say it was okay.

This movie kinda shares the plot with 'Speed' from 1994., but they're
actually totally different. So this movie isn't a copycat, anyway,
let's talk about the characters.

Vaughn (main one) is the character I liked mostly in this movie. His
dilemma between doing bad for good of his daughter and giving up from
everything was really touching and I really 'got into the character'
during watching the movie. The Pope (De Niro's character) is a classic
type of characters Robert plays. Crime businessman, who is hardcore,
but still kind on his own way. De Niro is an awesome actor and I'm
really glad to see him in this movie because he was perfect for this
role, and his performance turned out to be very good, too. Other
characters (Derrick, Cox, etc.) were getting on my nerves a little bit
because they were almost the only type of characters their actors play,
but that fact was still pretty ignorable to me.

Screenplay was actually pretty poor and that's the biggest thing I
didn't like in the movie. The movie could be awesome if screenplay was
not so weak, but movies like this usually don't have a strong
screenplay, so it didn't bother me much.

My final thoughts on this movie are positive, because this movie was a
pretty good crime thriller, definitely worth watching and not a waste
of time.

I give it a 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
"Heist" a/k/a "Bus 657" offers strong performances and decent
production values. The script has several strengths. The characters are
interesting and multifaceted and the dialogue is good. The characters
are given backstories and complex histories with one another, but those
histories aren't developed sufficiently for the audience to understand
some of the choices the characters make. 

Some aspects seem contrived, such as the girl's critical illness and
urgent need for surgery that somehow leaves her appearing healthy and
rosy-cheeked, the hospital's ultimatum or the lack of other options
like crowd-sourcing fundraisers. One plot device seemed much more
appropriate in a 1990 Bill Murray comedy than a gritty action film. A
feared gangster takes extraordinary steps to prevent anybody from ever
imagine they can steal from him, but is robbed twice in a week. The
casino seems to have less security for its cash than most casinos have
on their alcohol. 

One wishes filmmakers would take the time to do some rudimentary
research. There are numerous images on Google of one million dollars in
hundred-dollar bills. If half the money were in twenties, it would take
up three times as much space. Used bills occupy possibly twenty percent
more space than new bills. If a character runs around with a bag that's
too small to hold the amount of money it's supposed to hold, people are
likely to wonder where the rest of the money is. 

The script has more holes than Emmentaler. At times the characters seem
to act without any comprehensible motive. At other times, they have
very real and believable motives. The script has a couple of nice
twists, although they really need a better foundation than a brief
allusion or quick background shot to make them seem believable. It
would have been nice to get to know some of the passengers,
particularly as they make choices that impact the outcome. 

With a little more effort and development, it could have been a really
good script. Strong performances by Morgan and De Niro and interesting
turns by Bautista and Chestnut make the film a worthwhile viewing
experience.
<|_=00=_|>
You would think that a film with the title Heist in it would be all
about that. Instead we get a simple robbery that does not go as planned
and where three gang members end up on a bus. And where they are forced
to keep the passengers hostage.

As intriguing as this sounds it gets downhill from here. Most events
are predictable to a tee apart from a few surprises that do help redeem
this flick somewhat. But seriously with a cast like this I can't but
help to be disappointed. With names like Robert De Niro, Jeffrey Dean
Morgan, Dave Bautista, Gina Carano, Morris Chestnut, D. B. Sweeney,
Mark-Paul Gosselaar and Kate Bosworth I expected a little more. Not
much but come one what we got from this film is almost unacceptable.
The only reason why I kept watching is because of the sincerity of
Jeffrey Dean Morgan's character. He only is involved since he needs the
money for his daughter's surgery who has cancer. I am a sucker for that
kind of melodrama especially if some of the main characters sell it
well. I am not entirely sold on Gina Carano yet but I liked her part in
this. For me it was far better than her role in breakthrough film
Haywire. All the other actors are wasted. What happened to Robert De
Niro? Why is he still acting? It does not seem like he is enjoying
himself. He hasn't brought his A game in a long while now and it does
not look he is going to very soon. It's almost embarrassing to see him
like this. At least we were spared that 50 Cent was not involved.

Most of the film plays out as you expect and the action is decent
enough but nothing really special. For a film with a duration of 90
minutes it feels like it takes forever. This is due to lack of real
tension and build up of suspense. How can it be if director Scott Mann
plays it safe and goes for the ending everyone can live with.

This is one of those movies that is decent enough when it is on
television. I don't think this is worth seeing in theaters or watching
on DVD or bluray.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a rather typical action thriller starring a skinny Jeffrey Dean
Morgan and Robert De Niro. Kate Bosworth is the 3rd pre-title name but
she has a really small part in this.

Mixed martial artist Gina Carano is also present but underused here
having only a few seconds of martial art. TV's Mark-Paul Gosselaar has
also a surprise role and he is giving s good performance. That can't be
said about De Niro who - despite the fact that his character has many
layers - gives a sub-par and boring performance.

Anyway, as I said the plot is rather typical about a ...Heist,
(obviously). There are some shooting and car chases and roadblocks, a
couple of twists, a little bit of melodrama...

It's not bad. It gets better as it progresses and with a Hollywood type
conclusion that most people will find satisfying, although somehow
unbelievable.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie itself is very predictable. Even a twist is not that much of
a twist, though it doesn't really make much sense if you think about
it. But all is carried throughout the length of the movie, because you
have some really strong actors in this. You can also question the
morality of it and how it deals with certain things.

But it's just a movie and the characters may be plain (most of them),
but that's why this isn't top rated either. It's a nice little thriller
movie, which might think it's more than it is, but that's OK. It's
better to set higher goals, than just aiming too low. Even with the
misses and flaws, this still can be enjoyed
<|_=00=_|>
Throw together a few bad-ass looking guys and you get a bad-ass movie?
If only directing was that simple. This reeks direct to DVD; bad acting
with little or no coherent dialogue, bad lighting with the classic 2008
fake lens flare, zero character development etc. The list goes on.
These days Hollywood movies are sadly relying on statistics, stitching
together parts and dialogue from films that once did well. De Niro hits
rock bottom of wooden acting smoking Vapes whilst lecturing a
millennial how in the future no one will know what a real cigarette
tasted like. ZZzzzz. This film is the reason why people pirate movies.
Period. Times is money, and you're about to loose some.
<|_=00=_|>
If you want a serious heist movie with decent acting and script then
forget this load of nonsense but if you just want a movie with decent
action scenes that provides entertainment then it will fit the bill. De
Nero apart the acting is awful with Bautista the worst of a bad bunch
trying to play a tough guy but just comes across as the dumbest
criminal you could imagine. Police act against orders, patrol officers
suddenly take on the role of FBI and any cop who has watched hostage
movies would not fall for the old hostage criminal switch to get away.
People are suddenly transported across America in minutes and the whole
plan by Morgan relies on too many variables going his way for it to be
taken seriously. My advice would be forget trying to make sense of the
plot as it makes no sense just enjoy the action scenes and tick off as
another movie watched.
<|_=00=_|>
Director scott mann is on the rise, from his 2009 hit "the tournament"
to this 2015 film the heist his films are getting better and better.
The heist is a story of a desperate casino worker that cant afford to
pay for his daughter medical bills and after his mob boss at the casino
turns him down for a loan and fires him its time for last
resort.....raid the casino and escape by any means. Jeffrey dean morgan
plays the desperate dad with dave bautista as the heist leader and i
have to say his acting skills are improving with every film he is
doing, with robert de niro as the casino owner and morris chestnut as
his right hand man heist is a good thriller with a well played out
story that keeps your attention from start to finish.
<|_=00=_|>
Depending on who directed and wrote a film like this you would have a
blockbuster on your hands but this one fell short a little. It wasn't
bad but it wasn't as good as I thought it was going to be either. This
film could have used a little work as far as the story-line goes. I
think a better written script would have improved this film a lot more.
Although there were a couple of plot twists that made this film a
little more interesting I expected more trills and more action. Also,
being that this film starred Robert De Niro I expected a whole lot
more. Robert De Niro is a very brilliant actor and I thought this film
was far below his caliber and Morris Chestnut is a very talented actor
as well but I've seen him make a few other theatrical mistakes besides
this one. This film did have the potential to be so much more but even
with its draw backs it still wasn't too bad.
