
OK, the first thing you need to know about this film is that it is NOT
a stoner comedy; in fact, I wouldn't even call it a comedy. I'm glad I
had already read some reviews about this film complaining that the
film's marketing campaign was very misleading, so I didn't watch it
with the wrong expectations. After the lukewarm reviews, I actually
didn't expect anything from American Ultra and I was more or less
prepared not to like it  imagine my surprise when I enjoyed it from
start to finish. 

The main character's story-arc has been compared to Jason Bourne's,
which certainly makes sense; but while American Ultra shares certain
themes with the Bourne films, I found it to be much closer in tone and
story to The Long Kiss Goodnight: it's a crazy, (very!) violent and
suspenseful ride peppered with enough black humor and action to keep
you entertained throughout; it's a film that's not even remotely
realistic and it doesn't mean to be (but let me stress this again: it
is NOT a comedy). In my opinion, this didn't deserve to flop; if films
like Fifty Shades of Grisly Soft Porn can make hundreds of millions of
dollars at the box-office, an unconventional (but very entertaining)
little action-thriller like American Ultra should at least have been
able to make its budget back. If you take it for what it is and you
like your films R-rated and slightly twisted, I can't see why you
wouldn't enjoy it. 7 stars out of 10.

Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/

Lesser-Known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/
<|_=00=_|>
If the new movie American Ultra was half as clever as it seems to think
it is, it would be a bawdy treat. The design is extremely stylish and
even nobly unique, but underneath those flairs of fun is one of the
most identity-confused films ever, a true mess of genres and tones that
never quite finds its footing. The cool premise and individual moments
of fun can't overcome how poorly executed the final product is.
Ultimately, AU is proof that a mash-up of good scenes without a
cohesive center does not a good movie make. Eisenberg and Stewart play
a pot-loving couple who learn that their lives may be more than they
seem as they run into trouble with the CIA. It's Pineapple Express
meets Bourne, but can't decide which one it more wants to emulate. At
both times absurdly funny and oddly sincere, all the performers seem to
be in different movies. On the villain side, we've got Goggins giving a
Joker-like performance as a darkly hilarious, mentally disturbed
madman, while Grace seems to think he's still on a sitcom, delivering
lines with off-putting snark. On the other end, Stewart and Eisenberg
fumble between broad comedy and indie drama with little clarity or
success blending the two. Not that it's devoid of laughs; it manages
some humor when it focuses on the identity crisis of a
slacker-turned-trained-killer. Unfortunately, our hero wasn't the only
one trying to awkwardly discover himself; so was the movie. What
could've been an inventive little comedy ala Scott Pilgrim or
Zombieland is an ultra-mess.
<|_=00=_|>
This review does not contain spoilers, it just talks about the actors
and the general mood the film has.

I started watching this expecting to hate it quite a bit, because I
really don't like Jesse as an actor at all. I was quite surprised to
find myself laughing, feeling and getting excited from the very
beginning. I guess you could say that this movie was "ultra" fine ;).
The action was great with enough blood for someone who likes movies
along the lines of Kick-ass and similar. The comedy was funny enough to
punch through the serious moments of the movie to give you a quick
laugh before it throws you back into the quite depressing storyline.
The twists (while i expected them a mile away unfortunately) had you
feeling heavily for the protagonist. My final thoughts about this movie
are that Kristin Stewart really can give a great performance. Do not
judge her just on twilight. 

If you don't enjoy this movie even a little bit i think you really need
to lighten up.
<|_=00=_|>
(Credit to Mr. Moiz)

Small-town stoner Mike Howell (Jesse Eisenberg) spends most of his time
getting high and writing a graphic novel about a superhero monkey. What
Mike doesn't know is that he was trained by the CIA to be a lethal
killing machine. When the agency targets him for termination, his
former handler activates his latent skills, turning the mild- mannered
slacker into a deadly weapon. Now, the utterly surprised Mike must use
his newfound abilities to save himself and his girlfriend from getting
wasted.

This was far better than I expected. When my best friend wanted to see
this, I wasn't sure what to fully think. The trailers looked average to
me and I expected very little. Much to my surprise, this isn't your
average stoner movie. This one has plenty of creativity. What really
makes this movie is the able cast, especially the two leads. Jessie
Eisenberg and Kristen Stewart play off one another beautifully and have
terrific chemistry with each other. You're able to care about them and
what they are going through. Topher Grace is an above average villain
as well. For the action fans out there, I think you'll be pleased.
There are enough explosions and fight scenes to satisfy. 

This movie has a little bit of everything and plenty of creativity.
It's a bit of a shame that this didn't make much noise in theaters
because it deserved to. Not everyone will get the satisfaction I got
out of it, but I recommend it highly

7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Some upfront information, the main character of this movie gets stoned,
repeatedly. If someone smoking in a movie ruins it for you then you
won't like this motion picture. However him being a stoner (while
mentioned and a minor plot point) isn't the all consuming central theme
of the movie, this isn't Pineapple Express: Spy Who Smoked Me.

I found the acting to be above average, and more importantly the
characters are well written and believable. I liked the story, and by
the end of the movie I was wholeheartedly rooting for the romance as
well as several supporting characters to succeed. The only gripe I have
with the movie is the near terminator like aspect of the main
character, this is however during the "third act" and is perhaps
unavoidable.

The film does an amazing job at trying to disorient you when it wants
to, in spite of laying out a road map in the opening sequence.

Huge congratulations are due to the animator for the credits. The
style, and play of them where a fantastic end to the movie and really
had me leaving with a smile on my face.

I thought it was a good movie, certainly better then other films that
came out this year. The true test will be if I ever want to watch it
again, but only time will tell.
<|_=00=_|>
American ULTRA is not only one of the most underrated films of 2015 but
one of the most unjustifiably detested as well. It was far from
perfect, but was it bad enough to warrant a meager 43% score on Rotten
Tomatoes? I don't think so. Some of the dialogue landed with a thud and
Walton Goggins could've toned it down a bit, but otherwise American
ULTRA was a pretty slick little action film. In a year full of spy
films, most will forget this little tale of the CIA and experiments
gone wrong. Mike Howell (Jesse Eisenberg) is a pothead living in rural
West Virginia with his longtime girlfriend Phoebe (Kristen Stewart). He
enjoys a peaceful life of smoking weed and working nights at the local
general store and his only concerns are the occasional harassment from
the local sheriff and crippling panic attacks whenever he tries to
leave town. What Mike doesn't know (or, more accurately, doesn't
remember) is that he was once part of an experiment with the CIA where
he was trained to be the perfect assassin. When the program started
showing adverse mental effects on the subjects, the project was closed
and Mike, the most successful of the test subjects, had his memory
wiped and was given his new life. But now a young CIA upstart (Topher
Grace) sees his chance to make a name for himself in the agency and
begins a new operation using his own trained killers to eliminate the
remnants of the old program.including Mike. It'd be an easy enough
mission, if someone hadn't activated Mike's programming to give him a
fighting chance.

American ULTRA had been advertised as a stoner comedy, which was pretty
deceiving. This is an action film with an equal balance of dramatic and
comedic elements. There are few beats meant to get the audience
chuckling but all of them are in the promotional materials, giving the
impression this is more HALF BAKED than Jason Bourne. In reality, it's
somewhere in the middle of that spectrum. And when you approach it from
that angle, it's a pretty fun movie. It's a quick and easy 95 minutes
that flies by at a sharp pace. The movie is pretty much in gear from
the moment it begins, slowing down for a few brief moments to build on
the relationship between Mike and Phoebe. I've seen this movie two or
three times now and I haven't been bored yet. On the contrary, I dig
it. Jesse Eisenberg is admittedly a strange choice of action star, but
it works because Mike isn't supposed to be your average action hero.
He's not supposed to be much to look at; as far as we (and he) are
concerned, he's just a stoner who draws comics on the long, lonely
nights sitting behind a cash register. Eisenberg works for the
character because he can do neurotic incredibly well. When Mike starts
slaughtering would-be killers with whatever mundane he's got handy,
it's just as shocking to himself as it is to them. He has no idea
what's happening; one minute he's straightening shelves, the next he's
assaulted by a couple of men and he's jamming a spoon into one's neck
with skills he's unaware he even has. With this disconnect and the
resulting confusion, it's right in Eisenberg's wheelhouse and he rocks
it. He's also got fantastic chemistry with Kristen Stewart

In fact, I'll come out and share my opinion that this is probably one
of Stewart's best roles. I made a point of avoiding the TWILIGHT series
so I've only really seen her perform as Joan Jett in THE RUNAWAYS and
Snow White in SNOW WHITE AND THE HUNTSMAN, and I've never shared the
contempt most people have for her. I think she's got some skill and
I've never seen her as good as she is in American ULTRA. Now, there's a
"big reveal" halfway into the film that's a little hard to swallow but,
for all of her interactions with Eisenberg and Topher Grace, I loved
her. While Eisenberg and Stewart are a perfect pair of heroes, our
villains aren't as strong. Topher Grace does really well at portraying
smarmy and conniving and his character Yates is both of these things,
but he's also too immature for me to believe he would've been promoted
as far as he had and been given the opportunity to institute his own
crazy operation. I loved his bickering with Stewart and some of his
tantrums were amusing but whenever he tried to come across as
threatening, he flat-lined. Walton Goggins is the other big baddie of
the film as the only CIA super soldier worthy of remembering, Laugher.
I love Goggins and it's great to see him in anything, but I hate
Laugher's trademark forced hyena laugh with a passion. He's much better
later in the film when he brings the craziness down a few pegs and his
character starts coming to his senses a bit; I loved the final moments
in the last battle between Mike and Laugher, almost as much as I loved
this exchange earlier in the film when Laugher is preparing to set fire
to a car that Mike's trapped inside:

Mike: (yells from inside car) "I hate you!" Laugher: (pauses in dumping
gasoline on car to yell back): "Well, I f***in' hate you too, man!"

It's simple and stupid but it gets a laugh from me. There are a lot of
little moments like that where humor peaks through the carnage. John
Leguizamo has a small role as Mike's drug dealer that's good for some
laughs and Mike's own naivety provides him with some good material.
It's a perfect blend, really. I'm disappointed to see the
lukewarm-to-cold response American ULTRA received. If you haven't seen
it yet, I'm giving it a recommend. I think it's worth it and it might
surprise you.
<|_=00=_|>
Anyone who watches this movie and takes it at face value won't enjoy
it. As is often the case with over the top, over exaggerated movie,
check your common sense at the door and ride it like a roller coaster.

American Ultra is ultra violent, ultra simplistic and yes, a little
stupid. But I think it's supposed to be? 

As B Movie or just "childish R Rated" pleasure, this movie works. A lot
of things going for it actually: a very punch mise en scène, some good
casting and good performances from Kristen Stewart & co. given the
genre and topic.... and yes, good fun.

Given the negative reviews, this may sound defensive but I am sure that
a lot of people will enjoy it for what it is. DOn't expect the next
Avengers and yes, don't expect anything deep.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't give movies bad reviews often. I am the kind of guy who enjoys
movies for what they are, and can usually find something to enjoy even
in less than great movies. I don't require some deeper meaning in my
movies, or even a stellar plot.

That said, I have no idea how this movie is carrying a 6+ on here. This
movie is truly bad. It isn't the worst movie of all time...but it is
bad. Bad. It isn't funny. The action isn't good. The acting isn't good.
The special effects are beyond bad. The plot is it's one redeeming
feature, and it just isn't very good either.

Seriously. If you are like me and check movies on here to see whether
it is worth it or not to sit down and watch, either avoid this or go in
knowing it is a 4 at best, and that is being generous. Just a bad bad
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
If you've seen the trailers, I suppose you expect this to be one of
those stoner comedies, only it is not. American Ultra is at most a
dramedy, though its drama far outweighs its comedy percentage. The mood
is somber, the actors are technically good enough, the premise is good,
only  I found the execution lacking.

The more I watched this movie, the less excited I was about it. At
times, it tried to be far too dramatic and touching, failing at both,
and at other points, it did so unintentionally. I liked the idea of the
sleeper agent who is an ambitionless pothead, but the explanation to
his condition was lackluster and not well thought- out. Let's not even
talk about the villain; he was comically one- dimensional and flat.

Jesse Eisenberg, to be honest, bored me. At no point did I find myself
feeling for him. I am not sure if it is due to the casting or poor
writing, but I found the main character wholly uninteresting. However,
I was interested in finding out more about him in the past, and was
sorely disappointed when that was left to the wind. As for Kristen
Stewart  meh. I will admit to liking her (mostly outside of her acting
career) but at critical points, even I will admit, it was like
listening to her reading straight from the script. I did like her
physical dedication to the role, because she looked like shite, but
that cannot save the role.

As a whole  I was very disappointed by this film. Aside from the false
advertisement, which I wouldn't have minded if the movie had turned out
successfully, the writing was unpolished, the actors bland, and the
whole thing a mess.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a film critic or a film connoisseur of any kind; I rate a film
based upon how much I enjoyed it and if it would be worth the money to
shell out at the theater. With that in mind, I gave this film a 9/10.

The best way to describe this movie is Bourne meets CHUCK (the TV
Series). It is a Dramedy at it finest - it isn't straight up drama and
it isn't a comedy, but it has a nice mix of both, leaning a bit more
toward the comedy side of things. 

I couldn't stop smiling throughout the movie; it was well paced, the
character development was good (don't expect anything too deep), the
comedy was well timed, and the action was exciting. For a lighthearted
film, there were a few moments that definitely pulled on the
heartstrings. 

If you're looking for a fun movie to watch, and especially if you're a
fan of CHUCK (think of this as an R rated CHUCK), then I highly
recommend this move.
