
Going into view the movie, I had low expectations. I thought it was
just going to be another boring kiddie movie. Boy, was I wrong!! This
movie is action packed and intense. It kept me on the very edge of my
seat the whole duration. There is some serious suspense to say the
least. Not only that, but it's a real tear jerker. Good luck getting
through this movie without becoming teary eyed at least once. I ended
up falling in love with the dog Max and admired his loyalty toward his
family. It really portrays how dogs are wonderful creatures at heart
and brilliant judges of character. It's funny how one dog can make such
a great impact. If you love dogs, warmhearted family stories, and tales
of heroism then don't miss out on this one!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Max with my 10 year old sons. Absolutely awesome movie to see
with your age 10 to 16 child. It is much more than a movie about a
heroic dog. It is also a coming of age movie that has some deep dives
into responsibility, relationships, and ethics. Oh, and it is a great
adventure flick too. 

The dog will hook your kids and get them past some early dialog. But
once the movie gets going, hold onto your seats! Very exciting. Suffice
it to say that the audience gave the movie a long round of applause as
the credits rolled. And hopefully some of the life lessons will rub off
on the kids...
<|_=00=_|>
Who are these naysayers panning this film? They obviously lack hearts
and/or pets. And what is wrong with a predictable movie about a heroic
army dog? I found the script actually ambitious in trying to cover a
wide gamut of issues. But always at the core of the film is great love
for Max and the central characters. It's a family film filled with the
angst that everyone experiences in family relationships. It's also
filled with great love within the family and the challenges that come
with expressing it. The action sequences are breathtaking! I was
actually relieved that it was a Disney movie because in the scariest of
moments, I hoped Disney wouldn't break my heart. I don't think children
under 7 should see this without parents nearby to hold their hands.
Tissues are recommended for all but the hardest hearted movie critics.
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood's affinity for heroic dogs on the big screen dates back to
the silent film era, but only a very few of those canine characters
became famous. A German Shepherd named Strongheart starred in a
half-dozen silent films in the 1920s, including 1925's adaptation of
the novel "White Fang". A much more famous German Shepherd movie star
was Rin Tin Tin, who appeared in over two dozen movies in the 1920s and
early 30s. Both dogs' bloodlines survive to this day, with Rin Tin
Tin's direct descendants appearing in films into the 1940s, and Rin Tin
Tin XII still making public appearances. Of course, the most famous
hero dog of all is the collie named Lassie. As the character (a dog
named Pal and Pal's descendants), Lassie made several movies in the 40s
and early 50s (and a few more since), had a radio show in the late 40s
and starred in a very popular 1954-1973 television series, and made
various TV appearances since. So, can the hero dog in the movie "Max"
(PG, 1:51) lay claim to the mantle of Strongheart, Rin Tin Tin and
Lassie? That's a pretty tall order, but Max definitely fits the mold.

Max (played by a dog named Carlos, who previously appeared in "Project
Almanac") is a Belgian Malinois (a type of Belgian Shepherd) who is
employed as a military working dog, sniffing out weapons, explosives
and other kinds of trouble for U.S. Marines in Afghanistan. When his
handler, Kyle Wincott (Robbie Amell), is killed, Max accompanies the
body back to the U.S. and is even brought to Kyle's funeral. The dog
formed such a strong bond with Kyle and was so traumatized by combat
that he won't obey anyone else. But Max is relatively calm around
Kyle's teenage brother, Justin (Josh Wiggins), so Justin's parents, Ray
(Thomas Hayden Church) and Pamela (Lauren Graham) decide to adopt the
dog.

Like it or not (mostly not), Justin is put in charge of taking care of
Max. Justin learns a few tricks from a girl named Carmen (Mia Xitlali),
the cousin of his best friend, Chuy (Dejon LaQuake), and in a very
short time, Max is off leash and following Justin and his friends as
they daringly ride their bikes through the woods near their homes. Max
seems to be warming up to everyone except Tyler Harne (Luke Kleintank),
a boyhood friend of Kyle's and fellow Marine who was since returned
from Afghanistan. Whenever Max sees Tyler, he wants to attack. Carmen
tells Justin that dogs are usually good judges of character. Justin
also senses that there is something not right about Tyler, even as Ray
hires Tyler to work for him. Justin approaches another Marine dog
handler (Jay Hernandez) for information about Tyler and does some deep
forest reconnaissance of his own, with Max in tow. I don't want to
reveal too much, so I'll just say that Justin's and Max's instincts
about Tyler are not wrong and what they discover in those woods
jeopardizes their safety and that of their family and friends.

"Max" is an old-fashioned action-adventure, very much in the tradition
of earlier canine movie stars. There are clear-cut good guy and bad guy
characters. Right and wrong are well-defined and values like loyalty
and self-sacrifice are front and center. There is danger (shown with
impressive cinematography) and even death, but no blood  and no
swearing or sexuality. This is family-friendly fare at its finest
almost. The first half of the movie is pretty slow. Some of the dialog
is not just old-fashioned, it's distractingly trite and even a little
silly. The performances from the adult cast members are strong, while
the teenagers' acting is barely adequate. But those complaints matter
less and less as the film progresses, especially if you're looking for
a movie without the R-rated and even PG13-rated on-screen pitfalls that
concern many parents. And I heard they're already planning a sequel in
which Max has rabies. They're going to call it "Mad Max". (Sorry,
couldn't resist.) But seriously folks, "Max" is the kind of movie
Hollywood rarely makes these days. It's a throwback, and an imperfect
one at that, but is one the whole family can enjoy. "B"
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fine dog movie and good for the family without foul language
and sex. Movies like this are so important because they remind us of
how important dogs and other fellow animals are to us and how many of
our human lives they have saved. Throughout history we have used
animals like dogs, horses - even pigeons - to aid us in wars. Many
thousands have been killed or slaughtered. Some have been recognised as
the heroes they are but all to often these dear and faithful friends
have been regarded as "things" and not sentient beings with feelings
and emotions, beings that give us unconditional love and obedience.
There have been better dog movies made in the past but Max is good and
worth watching. Max is also a tribute to war dogs generally and
hopefully will open some minds to the close relationship that exists
between man the animal and his other animal friends.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't let those Rotten Tomato critics sway you. This was a great movie
and I am an adult who is also a veteran and German Shepherd Dog owner.
While I thought it was going to be more about the dog adapting to
civilian life it was something a lot different. I still liked the story
and action scenes with the dog. The storyline actually had me guessing
which I like in a movie. Even though most of the main characters were
kids, it took me back to my days as a kid and when I had my first dog.
Anyway, this movie will hopefully show people that dogs are actually
very smart creatures and how we as humans need to find the best ways in
order to provide them homes and prevent unwanted litters of pups. My
dogs have never failed me while people have so many times. It's just a
good feel good movie that people need to take in once in awhile.
<|_=00=_|>
Max very well might be this generation's Rin Tin Tin, both are German
Shepherds and both are the heroes of their respective stories. The
titular Max starts out as a military dog in Afghanistan, but when his
military handler dies, he returns to the States with dog PTSD to be
cared for by the handler's family in Texas, and in particular their
teenage son, Justin, who Max bonds with. This is a classic boy and dog
story with a military angle to it that helps to differentiate it from
the rest of the pack, with Justin and Max eventually embarking upon an
adventure of sorts that requires all of Max's incomparable skills to
save the day. This is the kind of family movie that isn't made anymore,
it's clean cut and old-fashioned, and while it has some plot holes,
there aren't many movies that you can take the whole family to anymore
and that's why Max is special.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw Max yesterday at a screening in Vancouver and I loved it.
After having watched the trailer I came in with low expectations, the
story didn't seem very interesting and I wondered what they could do
with the simple story line but I was pleasantly surprised. The film is
very heart warming and entertaining. It had some action in it but the
setup is very simple.There are no fancy computer graphics just good
people/actors and a dog that's hard not to fall in love with. Its a
feel good movie that's lovely to watch with family. The acting was
good, I would recommend seeing this movie and will probably watch it
again sometime.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, this movie was perfect. It had a great story. I don't usually
cry in movies. It made me tear up a lot and i couldn't stop my self. I
really recommend anyone who loves dogs or you know someone who worked
in the army or something to watch this. It's a great movie kids. It
even had some laughs in their too which was great. Everyone will enjoy
this. Im 18 and so is my boyfriend and he teared up too :). I would
definitely go see this again for my self .Also when i first watched the
trailer i had to see it and counted the day for it to come out thats
how excited i was to see it, it looked really good! And once again i
recommend you watch this movie with your family ( and dog)
<|_=00=_|>
Review: For a movie about a dog, I actually quite enjoyed it! I wasn't
expecting deceptive gun runners and dog fights in the film and the
emotional content did touch me, so I must admit, it was a joy to watch.
It's about a US Marine, Kyle Wincott (Robbie Amell), who handles a dog,
Max in Afghanistan. Max guides Kyles squad towards some hidden weapons
but when the artillery goes missing, Kyle is questioned by his superior
officers. Kyle soon realises that his close friend, Tyler Harne (Luke
Kleintank), is involved in the missing weapons and he warns him that
he's not going to cover for him again. Whilst on the battlefield, Max
heads the squad toward a suicide bomber were Max gets injured and Kyle
get shot and killed during a gun battle. Kyle's younger brother, Justin
(Josh Wiggins), who makes money from pirating video games and his
father, Ray (Thomas Haden Church) and mother Pamela (Lauren Graham),
are informed about Kyle's death and during the burial, the US marines
bring in Max to say goodbye to Kyle. Since the shooting in Afghanistan,
Max has become uncontrollable but everyone can see that he is calm
around Justin, because he can sense that he's Kyle's brother. As Max is
due to be put down, the family agree to adopt him, as long as Justin
takes control of him and they soon become best friends, with the help
of his best friends cousin Carmen (Mia Xitlali). Tyler then visits the
Wincotts and Max goes to attack him, because he knows of his dodgy gun
dealings. Tyler then tells Ray that Kyle died because Max turned
against.him so Justin goes to his fellow officer to investigate his
brothers death. Justin is given a DVD to prove that Max wouldn't have
turned on Kyle and while he is watching the film with Carmen and his
best friend Chuy's, he is brought to tears and convinced that Tyler is
lying. When they finish watching the DVD, Justin is approached by
Chuy's other cousin, Emilio, whose a cartel member, about the pirate
video games and they follow him into the woods and witness a arms deal
with a police officer and Tyler. The police officers dogs can sense Max
is nearby so they chase after him and Justin tries to flee the scene,
leaving his bike behind. After Max fights of the police offers dogs,
badly wounding one of them, they head home after hitchhiking a lift and
when the police officer finds his bike, he goes to Justin house with
Tyler and demands Max to be put down. Max manages to escape the pound
and heads back to Justin house while Ray is held hostage because he has
caught Tyler making an arms deal with the cartel. Max then leads
Justin, Chuy and Carmen to Ray whereabouts and they manage to rescue
Ray, after fighting of Emilio and the police officer. Tyler then comes
face to face with Justin on a damaged bridge but he's attacked by Max,
which kills Tyler and badly damages Max. After the whole dramatic
incident, Max and Justin visit his brothers grave and the Wincotts
adopt Max again. A sweet ending to a dramatic movie! The dog was
brilliant throughout the movie and the emotional scenes at the funeral
were brilliant. I would have liked to have seen some more footage of
Max in Afghanistan with Kyle but apart from that, it's a decent film
with enough elements to keep it interesting throughout. The dog is the
real star of the movie but everyone puts in a good performance, which
made the movie, surprisingly, a good watch. Enjoyable!

Round-Up: This movie was directed by Boaz Yakin, who also brought you
Fresh in 1994, A Price Above Rubies with Renee Zellweger, Remember The
Titans, Uptown Girls, Death in Love and Safe with Jason Statham. He's
had a versatile career to date and he has worked with some big stars
but taking on a movie with a dog must have been a big project, so I
have to give him credit for that. He also put a lot of effort into the
script, which I found quite entertaining, so for a family drama, this
movie gets the thumbs up from me.

Budget: $20million Worldwide Gross: $44million

I recommend this movie to people who are into their family/adventure
movies starring Thomas Haden Church, Josh Wiggins, Luke Kleintank and
Lauren Graham. 6/10
