
Okay, this is already the fourth superhero film we have gotten so far
this year. The fact that it's this good blows my mind, it's the sixth
entry in the main X-Men series, and it might be the third best after X2
and Days of Future Past. Oscar Isaac gives an outstanding performance
as the mutant menace: Apocalypse, he was the highlight of the film
right next to Fassbender's Magneto (who never fails to deliver). In a
year with pathetic and disappointing superhero film villains so far,
Apocalypse gives us the layered and threatening performance we want
from our villains. Evan Peters returns as Quicksilver once more to give
us an amazing scene that tops the one from Days of Future Past. The
newcomers are fantastic and exciting and we will certainly see them
again in the future. They also finally got Cyclops right! Forget about
Rotten Tomatoes and go see this film opening weekend, you won't regret!
<|_=00=_|>
I personally thought Days of the Future Past to be the best of the
series. And as it turns out, Apocalypse is the worst one to date.

The only bright spot in all the awfulness is Quicksilver, whose slo-mo
scene is at least as good as in the previous movie, if not better.
Other than that, everything else goes from mediocre to outright
terrible.

The main villain's motivation is bland and stupid. (Yeah, he just wants
to kill everyone and rule the world.) The way he "persuades" other
mutants to join him is absolutely unbelievable - he basically just
offers to increase a mutant's power and in return demands help to kill
billions of people. Sounds like a fair deal. What's offputting is that
the extent to which he augments his followers' powers is not constant.
Like, Magneto gains the power to control pretty much all the metal on
the planet at once, while Psylocke gains another special effect on her
CGI laser beams or whatever it is that she emits. Apocalypse's
abilities in general are largely undefined - at times he is shown
pulling matter from objects around him to construct something, and then
in the next shot he just makes solid objects like armor out of thin
air. Another ridiculous thing was that they tried to make Isaac more
intimidating by giving him thick soles so that he'd look taller, which
is noticeable. What is more, his lines are cringe-worthy, but the
problem is, so are everyone else's. Same boring clich√© dialogues like
"It's your home. We will help. Join us, Eric. I see good in you."

Yeah, forgiving Magneto like it's nothing after he helps to kill
millions of people and destroy entire cities is included in the
package. Also, he changes his mind about the whole "destroy the world"
thing after Mystique tells him for the 100th time that he is her family
and she still sees good in him.

Some of the characters' looks are still beyond ugly. I can actually see
why they chose to try to keep the Beast and Mystique in their human
forms more, except for saving the actors from the extensive make-up
procedures. The thing is, these characters look absolutely god-damn
atrocious and are painful to watch. I mean, Lawrence is annoying and
redundant when she is on screen anyway, but when she is also blue, it
just becomes vomit-inducing.

Recent 2016 comic-book blockbusters also did not enjoy good scripts,
but at least they had high-quality gripping action scenes. This is not
the case here, as fighting is mostly goofy and bland, and at times it
is clearly visible by the actors' motions that they are being pulled by
the strings. Or being drawn in cheap CGI.

This is actually sad. Singer's previous movie, DotFP, was outstanding.
The recent Deadpool, who ostensibly shares the universe with the X-men,
was awesome. And now we get a horrible, outrageously stupid and
pretentious CG-overdosed mess. Let's hope the next one will be better.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is astoundingly terrible. The first 45 minutes of the film
feel like bad long exposition and yet nothing really happens, a mutant
appears in some random scene and they are recruited by either
Apocalypse or the X-Men. The writing is all over the place and we don't
get to know the characters, they're simply put there.

Because Bryan Singer is in love wit Stryker of course we get to see the
Weapon X program (again!) and of course, Wolverine because why not.

As for the characters: Magneto barely does anything in the whole movie,
Apocalypse is a one note villain, Xavier phoned it in and Jennifer
Lawrence was NOT Mystique at all, as expected she played Raven
Everdeen.

Finally, the big battle comes and nothing really happened, the world is
being destroyed and the governments sit quiet. 

SPOILER ALERT! 

And the way they defeat Apocalypse is by combining all their powers,
just like in FANTASTIC FOUR (2005) or even FANT4STIC (2015).

This movie has NO SOUL whatsoever, boring, badly acted, awful written,
the worst movie of the year so far.
<|_=00=_|>
As you can probably gather I thought this was another very good
addition to the X-Men franchise. Whilst it doesn't hit the heady
heights of Days of Future Past it still is a really good watch and I
fail to see why it has had a mixed press.

Firstly I found it to have a perfectly serviceable story, with
Apocalypse and his followers recruiting the very vulnerable and angry
Magneto as part of his plan to destroy civilisation and rebuild it in
his image. Fassbender turns in another solid performance and you really
feel his pain and confusion for the Erik/Magneto character. I also
thought all the supporting cast were absolutely fine in their roles,
and to me Evan Peters as Quicksilver really stole the scenes he was in
and makes a fine addition to the cast. The same also goes to Tye
Sheridan as Scott/Cyclops, whose back story is filled in better and
with more depth than it was in the Wolverine origins film.

I see the critics have been moaning about having too many characters in
the film, yet I actually think it was handled better than it was in the
Captain America: Civil War film. In Apocalypse the large cast do
actually have something to do and contribute to the story, whereas the
Captain America film felt like some were shoe horned in, which I felt
made that film feel bloated and repetitive whereas this one at least
get the storyline moving. I felt that Civil War felt way too long
because of all the story padding yet Apocalypse, whilst also a long
film, kept my interest to the end (and yes there is a post credits
scene that I suspect is setting up Wolverine 3). I should also add that
Apocalypse, despite it's bleak story, does have some moments of humour
and wit that went down well with the audience.

I also felt the surprise appearance of Wolverine fitted in nicely with
the back story that we already know, particularly the one told in X Men
2 and the Origins film, nicely closing that particular characters story
arc and fitting in perfectly with the circumstances surrounding his
appearance in the very first X-Men film of 16 years ago. If this is to
be Wolverines final appearance with the X-men then they have given him
a lovely send off.

I did find some minor flaws with the film though, particularly with the
visual appearance of some of the characters and how their ages don't
compute when the first X-men film of 2000 is taken into account.
However, asides from that I thoroughly enjoyed X-Men Apocalypse and
thought it was a solid & worthy addition to the other X-Men films. The
films had spectacle, action, laughs and carried on with the journeys of
the characters we have got to know and love over the past sixteen
years.
<|_=00=_|>
X-Men: Apocalypse is the sequel to Days of Future Past and takes place 
about a decade later in the '80s. This movie entertained me from start 
to finish and I can't say I was ever bored. But there are a lot of 
things I was not satisfied with while watching. Starting off with the 
good, Magneto and Professor X continue to be the best parts of these 
movies. Michael Fassbender as Magneto is amazing and he has a really 
emotional scene towards the beginning which got me locked into the 
film. James McAvoy is also great as Xavier. The internal battles inside 
Xavier's head were riveting. I really liked the new cast of the younger 
X-Men, like Jean Grey, Storm, Nightcrawler, and Cyclops. Quicksilver 
has another awesome scene just like the previous movie. The action is 
handled very well for the most part. The first half of the movie is 
terrific, but the second half brings it down.

Apocalypse as the villain was OK for me. Some scenes worked well and 
others didn't. I was always skeptical of Oscar Isaac as Apocalypse and 
I still don't think he was the best choice. He is just like Jesse 
Eisenberg as Lex Luthor for me. Apocalypse is also a small mutant 
compared to the others for some reason and he's just another villain 
who is obsessed with destroying the world, and his motivations are 
thin. Jennifer Lawrence was a boring Mystique. She just seems 
uninspired throughout the run-time and becomes tedious since she uses 
the personality over and over again to play the character. Some mutants 
were completely wasted here with Psylocke and Angel. There's an entire 
sequence in a secret lab and it seemed there for only one reason: the 
cameo of a specific person. While it was fun to watch, it didn't do 
much of anything for the story in the long run. The entire thing could 
have been removed and the movie would have been the same. The final 
battle felt underwhelming with the whole global extinction. The problem 
is they don't show any civilians dying; it's just buildings coming 
apart, making it hard to care about the situation. 

Overall, X-Men: Apocalypse is a disappointing sequel to First Class and 
Days of Future Past. But it is not at all a bad movie. Magneto and 
Professor X are once again great, Apocalypse is a mixed bag, the pacing 
for the movie is all over the place, and the dull second half just 
brings the film down from the really good first half.

X-Men: Apocalypse gets a B-.

<|_=00=_|>
I loved the Apocalypse storyline of the 90s animated series so I was
pretty stoked about the idea of a movie centering around the Apocalypse
character, it's a shame I have to live with it now.

The new cast can't seem to hold up a movie on their own, McAvoy is a
huge miscast 3 movies later, Fassbender struggles to hold up the movie.
It seems like their veteran counterparts did most of the work these
past couple of films.

Apocalypse is terrible, I had reservations about him before, but you
can tell they didn't know where to go with him or how to handle him so
they kinda just piggybacked off of stargate. There's this strange
pedo-like relationship he has with his younger horsemen. 

The wolverine cameo was so forced and out of place you'd think this
were a superhero spoof movie.

There's a random scene where the new gang of mutants goes to the movies
and jean literally says "At least we can agree on one thing: the third
movie is always the worst" and it cuts back to the movie. The scene
literally has nothing to do with the rest of the story its just spliced
in there for some reason.

Which begs me to question whether the cast knew how terrible it was and
just did not care.
<|_=00=_|>
Another X-Men movie.. and again, not much of anything happens. There is
a plot, yes, but it is poorly written and lacks substance/soul/meaning.
The attitude of "I don't care" is what I came out with after seeing
this movie. Instead of having a soul, it feels like a bunch of things
put together in order to make money. You see characters, but aside from
Quicksilver, which felt shoved in, no one really has an attempt at an
arc.

--- SPOILERS!!

An hour into the movie, it SEEMS like something will happen. Two hours
into the movie, they end the threat of Apocalypse. The end. Apocalypse
wasted. 

I have several other issues with this movie, 1) Nightcrawler's
teleportation is stopped by electricity? 2) Apocalypse access the
internet by touching a TV. Yes yes, it is not the internet, but it is
such a concept. Anyway, Apocalypse learns all the languages this way
and sees the atrocities of humanity. What kind of powers did he have?
He came from the beginning of mankind, and then jumps to the "present"
where he magically has a mutant power that lets him access
"technology". Anyway, awful! Reading minds would have been better. 3)
The Angel transformation scene is simply stupid.. rock music, alcohol,
a cool pose.. Apocalypse's way of "convincing" others into joining him
is as bad. He says "come with me" and that's it. What does he want? To
kill all! Sure, I'll join. 4) Apocalypsis takes Magneto to his
conncentration camp (which is intact after who knows how many years)
and somehow knows about Magneto's past for some reason. Knows his name,
knows how he feels. 5) X-Men insults the Star Wars trilogy, calling the
third (Return of the Jedi) as the worst one. Why? 6) Oh yes, Magneto
lost everything, again. For some reason, he hasn't learned his lesson,
and continues to hang out with women and have children. Then they get
killed and he blames everyone! 7) Stan Lee's cameo is.. nothing. Him
looking at the sky as a civilian. 8) Somehow, aside from being somewhat
telepathic, or so I understood, Apocalypsis can also teleport for some
reason. But then he states he needs Xavier's powers! So, which is it?
Do you have all powers or don't? If you can do most of what it is shown
you can do, why do you need 4 horsemen, or other mutants? 9)
Quicksilver's scene, while awesome, is super coincidental. No reason
why he should have saved everyone from an exploding mansion. He isn't
in super speed 100% of the time! Nor he knows the place is exploding!
Yet he walks right to the center of the mansion and sees and rescues
everyone. Ugh. 10) So, a "psychic event" destroyed all the world's
nukes, and Colonel Stryker tracked the source to Xavier's mansion....
suuuuure. 11) Wolverine shows up and kills people, retconing his
origin. He then runs in the snow. Fine. There is no real "Berserker
Rage". Anyway, sucks and unnecessary. 12) Psylocke uses a whip to
fight, instead of her psyonich blades. 13) Magneto goes
all-out-destructive with little reason.. but wait, he becomes good with
even less. 14) Mystique turns into Psylocke and for some reason she has
a blade. It was a "twist", if you can call it that. This scene, where
she attempted to kill Apocalypse is the closes the writer could come
close to a surprise situation. 15) Apocalypse turns big, yes, in a mind
sequence. Looks bad by the way. Apocalypse does little to no shifting
actions. He remains as seen in the pictures. 16) Quicksilver DOESN'T
tell Magneto he is his father. The reason? There isn't one.

They said Lawrence didn't do much in the movie, that it was the kids
that did.. but ultimately, nobody really does anything. The fights are
not even 2% of the movie, it's mostly talk (some bad lines, nothing
mind bending). Mutants underused, which is the biggest let down. The
movie is a lot of nothing! Oh, and the X-men have Sentinels now, for
some reason.. Lots of stuff, lots of nothing. Not even a good waste of
time.
<|_=00=_|>
They ruined all x-men movies you ever seen I saw all X-Men movies, i am
fan of X-men, BUT this one was really awful. I can't even know how to
describe this crap. Can't believe this movie was 2.5 hours film that
was actually got into production. Its an insult of xmen movies. Its a
Power Rangers movie not X-Men.

First of all, Script is just awful. "Oh good to see you" - "long time,
where you'v been" - and lets hug for 15 minutes and say how good to see
each and one of them, like you are watching some kind of TV series like
Friends or somethin'.

Second: If you want to go and watch x-men crazy fight scene movie, you
will end up with super power guys use there super power to mimic the
fight at the end of the movie. All fights are 20 minutes + - of almost
3 hour film. Magneto do nothing in this movie, even in final fight
scene, he is up in the Air and thats really it. Everything looks cheap
plastic, there is a moment that they are on hill and guess what, its
like someone make a polish on this hill, its looks so cheap you can't
believe it. You fill the Studio...

Third: all this movie was like made up for a sake of movie. You wont
see a Mystique for a long in this movie, She decide tolook a like a
girl (Jennifer Lawrence)... Or The budget for CGI was not enough.

Fourth: Logan / Wolverine - Hey ))) he is there for 1 minute. yep that
what you will got. 1 awful minute that he is running. He is in this
film just for saying that he was there. Nothing added to the film from
his appearance. 

Fifth: i can understand that they want a new crew and remake all this
thing, but guys, from good x-men movie, it becomes some superhero mess.

It was just unnecessary movie. They ruined all x-men movies you ever
seen Storyline is just for kids Channel. 

Anyway, i just felt so disappointed they just ruined it. thats it.
<|_=00=_|>
The first X-Men trilogy was weirdly obsessed with Wolverine, and by
extension Rouge. I never understood why... This new trilogy is obsessed
with Mystique just because America's sweetheart Jennifer Lawrence is
portraying her. I don't mind it, but Mystique is no hero, she is a
devious villain! And Beast should be well a Beast, but a handsome
Nicholas Hoult is better to look at I presume. Storm is not a villain,
she is a beloved X-Men character that has never been done justice.
These are things that enrage fans over and over again.

It is not about being a purist, but about honoring the original. In an
age where superheros are invading our cinemas, one could do worse if
one watches a film about hope and freedom, about homophobia, racism,
bigotry, immigration and all sort of other social issues. And somehow
none of the X-men films so far have successfully brought these themes
to the screen.

This film suffers from having to focus on thousands of characters and
locations. Some characters like Mystique and Magneto are given
substantial screen time, while others such as Psylocke are given only a
few scenes. The film also tries to fit into the overall X-Men
continuity, while trying to stand up on its own.

A great film for a pop-corn viewing with your friends, but a sub-par
X-Men film in general... It is sad that the most substantial
superheroes of our age, that really have something to say about the
world we live in, are treated as badly as this...

Mutant and proud? Unfortunately there is nothing to be proud of except
the money the film is about to make.
<|_=00=_|>
X Men apocalypse adds nothing new to a landscape filled with superhero
films and lots of X Men films of old, but just cause it doesn't add
anything new doesn't make it a bad film. \

From Xavier going bald to Magneto becoming one of the four horseman
this film is standard from beginning to end, but I can't say I didn't
enjoy it. 

It was fun to see Magento completely wrecking the X Men. And all of the
end of the world stuff wasn't too bad either. 

I enjoyed Apocalypse as a villain even if he was clich√©.

The movie doesn't develop the 4 horsemen enough, but that not a bad
thing at all. They didn't need to much development. What they were
given was good enough for the story that was trying to be told.

Quicksilver steals this movie though. He really is the best part of
this franchise
