
Logan is the 2017 movie everyone has been anticipating after two great
trailers and a R rating it delivers a surprising amount of heart to
characters we have grown to love and know and also balancing a
surprising amount of action within the first and third act climax, its
violent but not blood for blood sake every cut is with reason.

Logan presents us with Logan (Wolverine), Professor X and Laura (X-23)
and by definition its an escort mission involving X-23 but shes more
capable than Logan and Professor X thinks and shes able to fend for
herself. Logan is old and a grizzled shadow of what he once was and by
going on this mission he unlocks some of the old wolverine inside of
him and we see bursts of that throughout the movie, Logan also begins
to realize things about himself through the vision of this little girl
because they have striking similarities.

Every scene in this film feels necessary from the character development
to the humor and action nothing is forced everything comes off natural
which is a breath of fresh air and I was very pleased with it, I
believe that this movie will be very well received by fans as it treats
its characters with such care and embarks on an emotional and
satisfying conclusion to Hugh Jackmans Logan (Wolverine).
<|_=00=_|>
"Logan" is directed by James Mangold and stars Hugh Jackman for one
final go around as Wolverine. With an R Rating secured, something the
previous two Wolverine films should have had, "Logan" was bound to be
fantastic. It wasn't fantastic. It was phenomenal.

If you are going into "Logan" expecting every scene to just be
Wolverine tearing people to shreds you'll be thoroughly disappointed.
This is definitely not an action film. There are action sequences in
the film, but they are not the main focus of the movie like the
previous 2 Wolverine movies tried to make them be. "Logan" is a
grounded film, a film that really takes its time to tell its story and
to develop its characters. It's a character-driven film, and it
probably has the most characterization in an X-Men film to date. We get
enough of Wolverine's backstory within the first few minutes to really
become attached to him (if we already weren't). We learn more about
Professor X and what he has been doing, and then there's this little
girl, who probably should be annoying, but luckily isn't and that was a
sigh of relief. This girl, Laura, is the star of the show. It is really
"her" movie. All of the sequences with Laura were riveting. There was
that sense of mystery to her character that you wouldn't really expect
from a film like this. You don't ever really know what her next move is
going to be. Her motivation to find a safe haven is so well felt in
this film that it just brings you a sigh of relief that there is still
a sense of good out there in the world of this film where everything
seems dark, bleak, and hopeless. 

Hugh Jackman's performance. Yeah the dude gave it his all. This is by
far Hugh Jackman's best performance as Wolverine. We've never seen
Wolverine this vulnerable. He's old, he's broken down, he's beaten. He
can't heal like he used to. The conviction from Hugh Jackman in this
movie was just spot on and really captured the ways Wolverine felt at
certain moments. It added layers to this film. When Wolverine gets into
a fight, Hugh Jackman is so good in these scenes it's like he got into
a fight with the filmmakers on set.

This film does not hold back from a violence standpoint. From the get
go, you know what type of movie you are in for. It is brutally violent,
by far the most violent X-Men film w have gotten. Wolverine hacks,
claws, and slashes his way through skirmishes with blood, guts, and
gore flying. If this is what you had always wanted from a Wolverine
movie and haven't gotten it up to this point, well this movie gives you
all of that. 

From a violence standpoint, the violence is there when the film calls
for it. It is not violent for the sake of being violent. This is a film
that puts its characters and story first before anything else, with
violence being a secondary element to help propel the story along and
to create tension. It is in the scenes where it should be. If this were
just an all-out 2 hour and 20 minute "hack-and-slash" fest this film
would have no depth to it. It would look cool, but giving Hugh Jackman
the proper sendoff was what was more important in a film like this.

This film at times gets downright emotional. The final scene of the
film makes you wanna cry. You care about these characters, you are
invested in them. You don't want to see them put in harm's way. Even in
the scenes where the film may feel a bit slow, the final act of the
film is the payoff. This is where everything really meshes together
with a force, creating a pulse-pounding, edge of your seat final
sendoff for Hugh Jackman as he retires from the role. 

This is by far the best Wolverine movie and possibly the best X-Men
movie to date. I haven't decided yet. It's up there, and it deserves to
be. Everything payed off in this film. It is emotional. It is character
driven. It has heart. It is emotional. This is everything anyone could
have wanted in a Wolverine film.

From me "Logan" gets a perfect 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
The word 'perfect' is very objective especially when it comes to film.
While Logan may not be a perfect film, it is most certainly a perfect
comic book film. It is a masterpiece of the most epic proportions and
leaves us with a brilliant swan song for producer and star Hugh Jackman
in his final outing as Wolverine. The film, directed brilliantly by
James Mangold, is a two plus hour comic book fan's wet dream as we see
the version of Wolverine every fan has wanted to see for nearly two
decades. While many will be very sad to see Jackman step down from the
role, he couldn't have picked a better or more satisfying film to end
his cinematic legacy with.

The film takes place in 2029 and shows the world in shambles. Mutants
are nearly extinct, water is scarce and the world is just an overall
wasteland. This is where we find Logan. He is a limo driving
cantankerous caretaker to an even more cantankerous Professor X, who is
now suffering from dementia and seizures. He is a borderline alcoholic
suffering from a mysterious illness that limits his mutant abilities.
Due to this, he lives this quiet life until he meets a young girl who
he feels he must protect. Without giving too much away, there is much
more here than I can go into but I will say, if you are a fan of the
Wolverine comics, this film will bring a tear to your eye. This is
probably the most faithful adaptation of a comic book character EVER,
Marvel and DC combined. The way the story goes, the way Logan behaves,
the selflessness and the rage, this is an all around realized version
of this character. While it may have taken a little longer than it
should have, this film was worth the wait. James Mangold does a
fantastic job at creating the world Logan knows now. This is more of a
film like Mangold's 3:10 to Yuma. It is bleak, violent and absolutely
heartbreaking. This is far from the PG-13 character we're used to. This
is a foul mouthed, miserable and very VERY bloody rendition of the
source material. This is a film very much like The Guantlet or
Badlands, a crime thriller and on-the-road drama. It very much embodies
the look and feel of a film from the mid-70s and it plays to this very
well. 

The performances in this film are amazing. Hugh Jackman's performance
here is the best as the character and may be one of the best of his
career. He is miserable and broken in this film and to see him like
this as the character, it is bittersweet especially because Jackman has
been so attached to this role. If he hurts, we hurt. If he's mad, we're
mad. It is a true testament to Jackman as an actor to make his audience
feel this connected to someone who is, by traditional standards,
completely unrelateable. Boyd Holbrook brings a sinister performance to
this and continues to build a very impressive resume. Holbrook is
someone who you'll love to hate. The real standout performance here is
from Dafne Keen who plays Laura. Without giving away any spoilers, she
is BADASS in this film and even gives Logan a run for his money on the
brutality.

Overall, Logan is a perfect comic book adaptation that is as
heartbreaking as it is visually stunning. Mangold and Jackman create a
special film with this that should be talked about for years to come.
Believe the hype, Logan is a seriously amazing comic book film that
just may be the best ever made and embodies the definition of a perfect
adaptation.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's cut to the chase, shall we? In every beat, every frame, every
moment, LOGAN feels like the Wolverine movie Hugh Jackman has been
waiting (and training) for 17 years to make. Set free of a PG rating,
this wildly kinetic film has plenty of gore, action and violence
pumping through its veins. But what makes this one of the finest
superhero movies ever produced is the big, messy, somewhat broken heart
beating at its core. 

Set in a grim near-future where very few mutants remain alive, we meet
an unthinkable incarnation of our favourite enclawed superhero: one
who's decidedly past his prime. This is not the near-immortal Wolverine
we remember, but Logan (Jackman): a broken, far older man who feels the
weight of every wound inflicted upon him. His once- formidable body 
tattooed with scars that aren't healing as fast or as well as they used
to  seems to be failing. It's only his determination to keep the
ailing, ageing Professor Charles Xavier (Stewart) safe and alive that
never falters. 

The film's plot kicks into overdrive when Logan's fate becomes
entangled with that of Laura (Keen), a close-to-feral young girl who
brandishes claws and fury as fierce and lethal as Logan's own. As the
unlikely trio go on the run, we see echoes of Logan himself in Laura's
terrifying rage and the tentative emotional connection she forges with
Xavier. It's one of many smart moves on the part of James Mangold, who
does double duty as director and co-writer. Bringing Laura into the
picture allows him to explore Logan's trauma, regret and hope through
the filter of this pint-sized powerhouse's origin story.

In effect, Mangold has placed an intimate family drama squarely at the
heart of this ostensible blockbuster film  strip the characters of
their superpowers and LOGAN would still pulse with plenty of heartbreak
and humanity. Logan keeps dragging himself through the world when one
suspects all he wants to do is die. Xavier grapples with his own
frailty as his once-sharp mind deteriorates and betrays him, again and
again. Laura is a tough, tender mess of contradictions: a victim of
horrific abuse but also a warrior in the making. Watching them interact
 fighting, screaming, arguing, glaring and, once in a while, forgiving
 will elicit laughter and tears (lots of tears), in a way that no
other superhero film to date has quire managed.

That doesn't mean, however, that LOGAN is an entirely joyless, sombre
affair. Far from it. It proves, quite conclusively, that films in this
genre can plumb the darkest of psychological depths while finding
welcome ways to leaven the misery. (Note: this is something Zack Snyder
would do well to learn as he continues to expand DC's largely mirthless
cinematic universe.) Mangold threads moments of genuine humour into the
proceedings  from casual shoplifting and runaway horses, to an ornery
old man who refuses to take his pills. 

The fast and furious action beats in LOGAN are also quite delightful to
witness. The violence that's on full, bloody display is dark and
horrible, but somehow fitting for this film in which there really are
consequences for battles fought and lost. It's only when you see
Logan's claws plunging into flesh, shearing cleanly through meat and
bone, that you realise just how neutered and family-friendly his
earlier outings were. There's a slow-motion sequence halfway through
the film, as Logan struggles to get to an embattled Xavier, that's
gritty and beautiful to watch  as thrilling as that scene-stealing
Quicksilver moment in X-Men: Days Of Future Past. And it goes without
saying that watching Laura gracefully spin and slice her way through
oncoming attackers manages to be terribly wrong and wonderfully right
at the same time. 

To be quite frank, none of this would work without the incredible cast,
all of them doing award-worthy work that will, sadly, be overlooked
because their characters have such silly things as 'powers'. It's truly
unsettling to watch Stewart dig beneath his natural gravitas to find
the shaken core of a Professor X who's semi-consciously losing grip of
his mind  the best and most dangerous mind in the universe. Keen is a
revelation. Grabbing this breakout role by the throat and making it
very much her own, she somehow manages to convey Laura's childish
fragility and overpowering strength, often in the same breath. 

And, finally, there's Jackman. He's been training for and playing the
role that catapulted him to global stardom for 17 years now, and he
brings everything he has to this final outing as Logan. He nails
Logan's physical tics, of course: from his grizzled and aged demeanour,
to his rattling cough and copious drinking. But Jackman also takes
delight in unearthing the dark sadness at the heart of this once
invincible, now vulnerable man. There is a hope and purity in Logan
that doesn't always show through his wisecracks, but it shines brightly
and unexpectedly here  often in the film's saddest moments. 

There are a handful of things about the film don't work quite so well.
The main antagonists, played by Richard E. Grant and Boyd Holbrook, are
largely forgettable  there's not much that defines them outside their
nefarious goals. As many viewers may be turned off by Logan's
relentless misery and eye-popping violence as those who welcome it.

But this doesn't detract from the fact that LOGAN is a remarkable
achievement. It manages to be several things at once: a bruising action
film, a tender family drama and an intimate character study, liberally
shaken through with comic-book sensibilities and a Western or two. If
Jackman really is hanging up his claws for good, there could be no
better way to bid farewell to one of Marvel's most enduring and
appealing characters.
<|_=00=_|>
I look at "Logan" as the "Alien 3" of the X-Men franchise. It basically
gives a gigantic middle finger to everything that came before it. It
destroys everything the movie that proceeded it ("Days of Future Past")
accomplished. In "DOFP", all of mutant kind are about to be destroyed,
but by the heroic actions of Logan himself, they survive. Then,
according to the film "Logan", they all get killed off a few years
later anyways. It has been said that one of the big themes of "Logan"
was disappointment. I agree. I was very disappointed in this film.

"Logan" is annoyingly low on information. We are thrown into this
terribly depressing future without a whole lot of explaining as to how
we got here. As I watched, I kept waiting for a scene where things were
laid down for the audience. It never came. The best we got were a few
vague references here and there. There was something called "The
Westchester Incident", but the reference was so fleeting that I barely
caught it. There was also another part near the end where the main
villain claims that he had something to do with the lack of new mutants
being born and that he is Striker's son? I think? It wasn't very clear
plus the dude's last name wasn't actually Striker, which further
confused the issue. Later on, I hopped online and had a few things
clarified (such as the "Westchester Incident"), but why weren't they
clearer in the film in the first place?

Another issue I have with this film is how it treats the deaths of its
two main characters. First, with Xavier, he is stabbed unceremoniously
by a clone of Logan about two-thirds the way through the movie. There
are no heroics in this death, no greater purpose, no meaning. He's just
stabbed and then dies. What a disservice to such an incredible and
important character to this franchise. 

Then there is Logan's death. Logan is impaled by a chunk of wood from a
dead tree. The dude literally has a skeleton made out of adamantium,
which is the world's most indestructible metal, but yet wood cuts right
through it. What? Now, we are shown through the film that Logan is sick
and his ability to heal is getting worse, but that shouldn't affect his
crazy metal ribcage! They even go to great lengths to explain that the
only thing that can really kill him is an adamantium bullet, but in the
end a hunk of wood does just as well.

Then there is the "R" rating. Once again, if this were a true
stand-alone movie and not part of a larger narrative, I'd mostly be OK
with it. But of course it isn't. Everything that we got with the "R"
rating was unnecessary. What we got was far more blood and gore (there
was more than one decapitation), a dump truck full of f-bombs and even
one scene where a woman in a bridal shower flashed her boobs. All of
this could have been edited out and the film would have been fine.

Don't get me wrong, I am no prude. I've seen plenty of violent movies,
heard plenty of f- bombs and seen plenty of nakedness on film. I'm fine
with it, but it has to be there for a good reason. I didn't see a whole
lot of good reason here. What really did it for me, though, was seeing
a 10-11 year old girl running around slashing off people's body parts.
That got to be a bit much for my taste and I began to wonder for whom
that kind of stuff didn't bother? Once again, does our society have a
bit of a violence fetish, one that has gotten so bad that watching
children tear people to shreds is OK? 

I think the reason for the rating has more to do with a popular trend
in movies (especially comic book movies) nowadays than it does with
serving this particular story. With the success of "Deadpool" last
year, film studios realized that an R-rated super hero film is not only
possible, but profitable. But as Malcolm hinted at in the movie
"Jurassic Park", just because you CAN do a thing doesn't mean that you
SHOULD. For "Deadpool" it works. You can't do "Deadpool" without all
that R-rated stuff. That is who "Deadpool" is and that's fine. With
Wolverine, however, he's already been established throughout the
previous 8 X-Men films. All of these R-rated "upgrades" now don't make
a whole lot of sense.

When I read positive reviews for this film, the main point that is made
is how good the dramatic performances are, especially from the two
leads, Patrick Stewart and Hugh Jackman. In this case, I completely
agree. They did a fantastic job. Even the little girl was amazing, I
thought. That can be quite a rarity when you think about how hit and
miss child actors are. However, even though most of the performances
here are top notch, great performances do not a great film make. If the
story sucks, what does it matter? 

It is hard for me to imagine why Patrick Stewart or Hugh Jackman would
be excited to work on a project like "Logan" once they read the script.
Were they excited to basically negate all of the great work they did
(and others did) in the previous X-Men films? They, better than anyone
else, should understand what this whole series has been about since the
beginning. Yes, "Logan" is unique and absolutely gave these actors
something different to do with their characters. And yes, they gave
stellar performances. However, there needs to be at least a little bit
of respect for the source material (and its fans) than this. Much like
the season premier of "The Walking Dead" this past fall, this seemed
more like a kick in the pants for viewers than anything else.
<|_=00=_|>
Holy Cow! We've finally got the Wolverine movie we've all been waiting
for and then some! Mr. Mangold has nailed the character and the action,
and Hugh Jackman is truly a part of a Wolverine movie that has
showcased the true character that the fans had hoped to see full on.
Yes, we've seen superb runs and flashes but nothing this deep or this
epic.

How could any movie fan in general not just adore this film? It brought
elements of a lot of great genres. 

Logan has to be considered genre-defining. The characters, action and
story were all beyond outstanding in this movie. We are taken for a
ride and can relate to Logan once again. The acting is superb and the
dialogue is perfect for the level of each character. Every single
character feels believable. You follow the story through Logan's eyes
and what a ride it turns out to be. 

This movie is emotional and moving in every single way that matters and
is unique and is as far away from anything X-Men we've seen before. In
this case, that's a very good thing. The fight scenes and pace are
superb. I honestly could see Oscar nominations here on multiple fronts.

This movie is sophisticated and delivers a grand, tragic story. The
action fits in nice but serves the story first. Unlike other "dark"
films, the tone is perfect and fits the character. The supporting
characters are utilized in a comprehensive and cohesive manner and are
wonderful in and of themselves. 

I loved everything about this movie and they left it as if this was the
perfect end to Hugh's run.
<|_=00=_|>
we finally get the Wolverine we have been asking for, for the past 15
years and it's his last time. Well i guess he couldn't have ended it in
any better way as a last farewell to the fans and his signature role.
Not only that but it looks like this one blows all the other superhero
movies out of the water and i hope you Weebs go pay for your ticket to
see this as well instead of watching a cam version online so we send
the message that we want more of these kind of movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I really can't get how in the world people are rating this movie as
highly as they are. You would think they have never seen this done, and
done better.

Yes, I understand that Logan is a heartfelt character dear to us, but
THINK people! For that very same reason we should be holding this movie
to a higher standard, and not giving it an emotional pass.

To, me, this film was slow and depressing a-la No Country For Old Men,
without ANY of the Oscar-worthiness. It was just droll, SUPER
PREDICTABLE, moronic in its' execution and so very far-fetched. (Yes,
imagine saying 'far-fetched' for a movie based on a comic)! They spun
and bent a bunch of things to get them to where they were in the year
2029 and tried to make it believable (it wasn't). Then, they try to
impress upon your heartstrings Logan's connection or ties to the little
girl, but the connection or ties are SILLY at best. 

THEN, let me get this straight ... you are trying like hell to get away
from the bad guys, and ummmmmm, you STOP FOR A MINI VACATION - not
ONCE, but TWICE, and put hundreds of strangers in jeopardy the first
time and a nice family in danger the second time. Seriously, anyone who
could get over that gaping ridiculousness and who can, after that, in
good conscience give this movie anything above a 6 is just messing with
you or has total fan-boy blinders on. 

As for the little girl, god, she was annoying and aggravating AF and
90% of her screen time was spent shrieking. No, not screaming.
SHRIEKING.

The rest of the acting was good. The family they added as filler in the
middle of the movie was the only thing IMO that you kind of cared
about. Even old Professor X had seen better days and you kind of wanted
it to be over for him. It was just painful to watch, and I don't mean
in a moving way where the film is made better, but in a painful oh god,
kill him off already way.

*** BIG SPOILERS BELOW *** DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THE MOVIE
OR ARE PLANNING ON SEEING IT!!!

The ending was unreal in how bad it was. Without giving too much away
... you have one little girl who is able to take out like 10-12 guys,
PLUS Wolverine, PLUS a BUNCH of other mutant kids who have varying
degrees of mutant abilities, and yet they can't take out a small group
of bad guys? 

W T H ?

As for Hugh Jackman, he was good and played Logan like he always has
done except maybe this time he looked older and more tired which was a
good thing because it translated unto the screen and gave Wolverine
some credibility. Otherwise he was just there. The gushing over his
acting this time around IMO is unwarranted, as he really didn't do
anything that much different than he has on every other X-Men movie and
if anyone disagrees, I defy them to point out what. 

All in all, I wasn't impressed. 

Don't get me wrong - it wasn't a horribly BAD movie, I just don't agree
that it was any good and I really don't agree with the overrating or
the assessment that it is in ANY way a "masterpiece". If you look at it
just on paper, you would think that the people that are reacting to it
in such a way have ONLY EVER watched comic-book movies in their lives
and have now seen a drama sold as a comic-book movie and their brains
are processing it as innovative and different.

In closing, I understand that Hugh Jackman is getting older, and the
great dilemma was 'how exactly do you keep making movies with an actor
who is aging, playing a character who is supposed to rejuvenate or
heal'? You don't. You kindly retire the character, as the creators of
the franchise have chosen to do. The thing is, they could have really
made it to where it wasn't SO depressing and/or bleak with no real
outlook toward the future but a bunch of kids you aren't really
invested in or care one iota about. A bad ending for a good character,
was just bad cinema. RIP Logan.

My actual rating is 7/10, but some reviewers have gone over the top
crazy with the 10s.
<|_=00=_|>
I do not understand the reviews... What the heck? This movie was maybe
not worth 1 star, I agree, because I enjoyed the brutality to some
extent. But it falls very short of being the sort of masterpiece it is
made out to be. I chose to rate it 5.

First of all, I am not a fan of Wolverine but I've always admitted that
Hugh Jackman was made for this role. And his role in pretty much every
X-men movie so far was outstanding. He is the Wolverine.

In this movie however, he bored me out of my soul. Even in the brutal
scenes he played in, I was not convinced. I understand he is weak and
old, and ravaged by Adamantium. But even so, it was not him. He kept
whining and suffering and yet I felt nothing. I felt like a narrator
who remains as distant as his character as he can. It was cold
acting--I do not like cheesy actors either but he clearly left me
unaffected. Too bad for a movie that relies on emotion to try and stand
out.

Now on to the girl. I felt no emotion whatsoever for her either. There
was no emotional build-up or any anchorage point I could tie my heart
with. She was a dull character. The way she growled and made faces was
overdone and... ridiculous. Her role was blurry. She begins as a beast
bent on savagery and blood. And a few days later she calls Wolverine
"dad"? And she actually has friends waiting for her? Let me have a
laugh, I almost fell out of my chair. Several other people summarized
her role in action parts; she goes on a killing spree for the first
heated scene but at the end of the movie she cannot handle a small
troop with her mutant friends--who make the cut by boasting their
powers against a man already down and apprehended while she and Wolvie
eat dust. ??? Charles-Xavier's lines were bland but at times I was
almost convinced. If it wasn't for the unlikable character that the
little beast is I'm sure his words would have affected me more. His
death was not even moving--and God knows how much I love Charles
Xavier.

The black family was forgettable. Nothing with them engaged my
attention. Except the fact they served as a redemption for a Wolverine
that had given up on standing for what it is to be an x-men. And even
so he failed. Because of a plot twist character who was there for the
sake of adding more Jackman for fan service.

But most of all... What happened? For the whole movie I craved some
flashbacks, some relevant explanation for Caliban, Xavier, the
disappearance of the other X-men, for Wolvie degrading so much, for his
copy's reason to exist--why not copy much more powerful mutants that
must have been out there. My head was dizzy with lack of information
and all it got was a few sentences.

I am honestly quite the easy-going guy. I was not full of expectations
prior to the movie. I actually expected the movie to be bad so that I
could be less critical or hyped up. I wanted to avoid being
disappointed. And while the beginning looked promising, it just went
downhill when I felt my questions were poorly resolved, or when the
girl's incoherent role showed more and more.

Perhaps the unmemorable soundtrack played its part, perhaps the
questions I kept asking myself and the writing inconsistency spoiled my
appreciation of the movie. But so it happened and whereas I know the
movie tried hard to be emotional and do Wolverine justice, it actually
did the opposite.

In a movie in which all I can remember are screams and growls and
bloodshed a la Tarantino, Hugh Jackman's last role as the Wolverine is
forgettable and painful.
<|_=00=_|>
Warning Warning Warning Warning The review contains spoilers!!!!! The
review contains spoilers!!!!! The review contains spoilers!!!!! The
review contains spoilers!!!!!

-------------------- This review contains spoilers RIGHT FROM THE
BEGINNING --------- ---

A completely morbid and joyless film. Grim and hopeless to the point to
depravity! The ignominious death fashioned for Charles Xavier is
unworthy -- given the legacy of this character. 

Equally distasteful are the not so subtle suggestions that this film or
its characters are comparable to Shane. This self-service association
is entirely unearned and borders on heresy. You could have done so much
better with a modicum of imagination and heart. 

When I saw the coming attractions it left me feeling miserable. I
though "Who would possible want to see such a grim and hopeless film?".
As an owner of copies of the previous two films and most X-men movies,
I went to see it anyway. I left the theater feeling even worse than I
did after viewing the coming attractions.

The rating of 3 out of 10 rather than 2 out of 10 is for the visceral
depiction of the effects of Professor X's 'brainstorm' That part was
very well done

Aside from that, thanks for nothing guys. Eat soup and cough!
