
"Sicario" describes, with surgical precision, the fatal and bloody
desecration of Mexico as a result of its decades long cartel war. And
it does so by compressing this almost endless tragedy into a two-hour
tour-de-force of filmmaking. 

At its center we find idealistic FBI-Agent Kate Macer (Emily Blunt),
who is recruited to pursue a Mexican drug-baron. She is being guided by
a seemingly untouchable covert assassin named Alejandro (Benicio Del
Toro). Their investigation and methods are pushed further into unknown
territory where justice and morality are no longer valid. The end not
only justifies the means, it requires them.

Denis Villeneuve's masterful piece exemplifies not only filmmaking of
the highest order, but carves out a place alongside the terrible news
reports as a deeply regretful, angry and at times almost unbearable
look into the abyss of a socio-political nightmare that is fueled by
first world-habit and global economics.

Through the powerful performances by Blunt, Del Toro and Josh Brolin in
the leads as well as the excellent supporting cast, do we get a sense
of the human cost (physical and psychological), which the war on drugs
has taken.

From an exploding prison population, to the destruction of Mexican
agriculture, to refugees and a cycle of violence that is beyond
barbarity; the pull that "Sicario" exerts over the viewer is undeniable
and by skirting the limits of bearable tension, without ever becoming
exploitive, it is never giving an inch concerning its subject matter.

Few movies this year will have such a clear and defined structure and
unflinching approach towards a situation that appears to be beyond
salvation, while showing at the same time, that life nevertheless
continues.

Taylor Sheridan's script doesn't miss a single beat and without
sidestepping anything frees itself from beaten movie conventions by
using familiar elements in an extremely skillful manner.

All these themes, stories and characters are captured through the lens
of veteran Roger Deakins (Skyfall, No Country for Old Men) who lets us
always know how the micro- and macro-particles of any conflict are
inextricably intertwined. We share the vistas of beautiful sceneries
while having to witness their downfall. 

Whatever ideals the likes of Emiliano Zapata once had, their country
has now, as it is described in the movie, become the land of wolves". 

Fifteen years ago Steven Soderbergh's Traffic" which earned numerous
Oscars, not the least of which went to Benicio Del Toro, made a clear
statement about the various strands the drug trafficking business
touches. Now, all those years later we see in Sicario" that even the
faintest of hopes that Traffic" held onto have been eviscerated. 

What now? One might ask.
<|_=00=_|>
One of those select few thrillers that will have your eyes stuck to the
screen from the opening credits to the very end, and I mean that
literally: I changed my sitting position many times during the film,
yet I clearly recall never ever turning my head away from the film,
this is how intense it is.

With this Denis Villenueve has now consolidated his name as one of most
important and gifted directors of our time and has shown us he is here
to stay. I truly marvel at how this film is so tightly put together and
even despite it faults, which it has, especially in script, it just
never gives you a chance to breathe and take it all in, thanks to the
atmosphere that is established from shot one until the last one, you
are always anticipating something's going to happen and that is the
sign you are watching a great thriller. You are always on the edge of
your seat and in some occasions you are really biting your knuckles.
The movie has a way to throw you into the action that is really rare to
find, especially in a highway sequence where I literally felt I was
there.

All of this is achieved thanks to probably the best cinematography of
this whole year. Deakins does it again, once more playing with a lot of
blacks and shadows and once more succeeding one hundred percent. Also
remarkable is the use of helicopter shots which don't feel like
connective tissue, but actually part of the organic, that's something
really hard to pull off. The sound design of this film is flat out
amazing, some of the best I have truly ever had the pleasure to
experience. It is so in you face, so tight, it really contributes in
making you feel a part of this even in the more intimate scenes. Music
too is also excellent and while some may say it was a little too
ominous and dark I felt it matched the tone perfectly and enhanced some
parts magnificently, contributing to a nail-biting building of tension.

Of course one couldn't get past reviewing this film without nominating
the three great performances at its center. Del Toro, Brolin and Blunt
are each better than the other and continue stealing the screen to
themselves scene after scene. There really isn't one stand out, the
three of them just excel sky high and give depth to characters that are
interesting. The characters are really what holds the film together,
they are truly developed three dimensionally and explored in depths
that aren't normally reached.

What makes the film stumble is the fact that in never has a good enough
plot to make things as interesting as they should be. It really has a
hard time in setting up which way it's going and in the end it actually
doesn't end up with a satisfying resolution. You are certainly left
with something to think about because of the themes, the characters,
the atmosphere and the intensity, but all in all the plot doesn't offer
interesting turns and not enough moral questioning, unlike "Prisoners",
and so remains slightly one-note for the whole duration. It also has a
totally useless character in Blunt's partner, which other than never
understanding why he was there or what was his arch in the film, I
never understood how he was being played.

Still there is nothing short of amazing in what Villenueve achieves in
two hours. What could have been a screenplay turned into a very generic
police drama, is actually one of the most atmospheric and tense movies
of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
More visceral than Steven Soderbergh's "Traffic." SICARIO is about the
cost to pay in a drug war and its merciless brutality. Masterfully
shot, perfectly acted. This is a film that doesn't allow you to feel
comfortable. With each passing moment, it crawls its way deeper and
deeper into this world where death is its only end game.

Director Denis Villenuve reteams with master cinematographer Roger
Deakins to take advantage of the desert, the weather, the landscape,
the terrain, and use them as silent supporting characters that also
serve to express the characters' inner demons. Deakins is a multiple
Oscar-nominated DP that gets better with every work and in SICARIO, you
will see that he once again experiments with even richer and newer ways
of shooting, whether it's the night vision first person view or the
angles to capture the intensity at the border, moments before weapons
are drawn, it's like enrolling in another classroom taught by Deakins
but with extra curriculums to learn. The man just knows how to leave
his competition behind.

To me, what I think is impressive about Emily Blunt is that she is
beauty and strength all in one. She can express torment and conflicted
soul so effortlessly, she plays this FBI agent, Kate Macer who does
things by the book, she always holds herself and others accountable for
every detail, so when she volunteers to be a part of a black ops that
practically throws the book out the window, her idealistic views are
put to the test. And I think Emily Blunt does a nice job of executing
that. It's somewhat of a fish out of water story where Blunt's Kate
Macer knows she's being used but she wants to know what she's being
used for. Oscar winner, Benicio Del Toro has walked through this
territory before in Steven Soderbergh's "Traffic" where he played a
Tijuana police officer. In SICARIO, he plays a mysterious character,
Alejandro, he's skilled, a man of a few words, soft spoken, but highly
intense and has a sharp instinct. What has always been brilliant about
Del Toro, in all of his works including SICARIO, is that he can say
much without actually saying much at all. In the case of his character,
Alejandro, there's a certain dark pain that's magnetic about him. It's
all in the eyes. Oscar nominee Josh Brolin plays the leader of the
team, Matt Graver, he talks way too damn much but that is also a part
of his game, his game of manipulating others.

I've never been to Juarez, I've heard horrible stories about that
place, and SICARIO, though it wasn't exactly filmed in Juarez, does
manage to put the fear of God in audiences' heart by showing Juarez for
what it is, there's no sugar coating, there's no hiding that it's one
of the murder capitals of the world. It's a deeply harrowing part that
will stay with you long after you've done watching the film which in
and of itself wrestles with questions of morality.SICARIO means
'hit-man,' you'll come to wonder which of those three lead characters
is the actual hit-man but ultimately, what SICARIO gives you is this
dilemma,... if somebody could finally solve the drug cartel and drug
kingpin problems for the rest of us, would you really care that they
did it by killing instead of bringing the perp to justice?
<|_=00=_|>
The badlands of the US - Mexico border and the viciousness of the drug
trade running across it sets the background and the tone for this
movie. It's grim. Human life is very cheap and the movie doesn't flinch
from showing consequences. There are definitely some scenes that are
not for the faint hearted, but there is nothing gratuitous here. If
anything - despite the subject matter - the film goes out of its way to
avoid Hollywood heroics.

Emily Blunt does an amazing job portraying Kate Macy, a career
policewoman heading a SWAT team. Her accent slips slightly a couple of
times, but otherwise she's utterly believable as born and raised in the
deep south of the US. Kate is a fundamentally decent, honorable human
being, trying to the right thing in a world where the rule book doesn't
seem to work any more. She's smart, tough, and experienced - but right
from the start of the movie, it's clear that she's in over her head.

The tension never lets up. An attack could come at any moment, from any
direction. Anything could be a trap. All of it, no matter how extreme
something is, plays as real. The director manages scenes expertly to
avoid any clean and easy action movie clichés, and it pays off
enormously as the movie goes on.

It's also a highly intelligent movie, made for an intelligent audience.
It doesn't lay things out on a plate. Instead you have to pay attention
and you have to think, just as Kate has to - because her first mistake
could be her last.

Staging, costuming, sets, cinematography, and lighting are all perfect.
Some airborne shots in particular stand out as both daring and
stunningly original, clearly showing just how harsh the landscape is,
while managing to propel the story forward - without showing anyone, no
less. This part of the movie is in the "As good as it gets" category.
The only part that I didn't like (and the reason that this doesn't get
a 10 from me) was the music. It's used deliberately to heighten tension
during some scenes which would otherwise break the feel of the movie,
and generally it's done well, but some scenes are spoiled with a There
Will Be Blood styled screech. It's really not needed, especially since
Sicario's own score manages to build or maintain tension quite
successfully in other parts of the movie while remaining low-key.

To my mind, this is much more of a drama than it is a thriller. It's
certainly not an action movie. The acting from the support cast is
exactly what it needs to be - good in general, and great when a minor
character is the focal point - but look closely at how much Benicio del
Toro manages to do with no dialogue and not even all that much
movement. Simply amazing.

This is a great movie to see if you want to be challenged.
<|_=00=_|>
Feverishly satisfying with pulse-pounding energy that's sure to give
your heart its full day's work, Denis Villenueve's masterful "Sicario"
with Emily Blunt, Benicio del Toro, and Josh Brolin is an edge of your
seat thriller that exemplifies the finest parts of the action genre.
Filled with mystery, suspense, and outstanding performances,
Villenueve's direction, along a tight script by Taylor Sheridan, brings
a much needed sense of technique and art that's been sorely missing
from the 2015 movie year.

"Sicario" tells the story of an idealistic FBI agent names Kate
(Blunt), who is enlisted by an elected government task force to aid in
the escalating war against drugs at the border area between the U.S.
and Mexico. With the "guidance" of a mysterious agent Alejandro (Del
Toro) and her superior Matt (Brolin), and influx of intrigue and morals
will shake Kate to her very core.

First and foremost, "Sicario" breathes new life into contemporary
cinematography, as produced by no less than the great Roger Deakins. A
vessel for God's eye on the world, Deakins ignites the fire of his
vision, capturing some of the finest shots seen this decade. His use of
shadows, CGI, and choices in which to convey and portray emotions is
downright genius. Becoming essentially another character in the story,
Deakins gives a master's class on cinematography for future craftsmen
and women to behold. It's a work that will surely land him his
thirteenth Oscar nomination.

Above that, we are treated to fantastic and awards worthy performances.
Emily Blunt, as seen in nearly everything she touches, shows herself as
one of the most interesting and endearing actresses working today. Her
courage and vulnerability for Kate is personified by Blunt's ability to
connect with the character's soul. She lays into Kate calmly, echoing
great performances like Jessica Chastain in "Zero Dark Thirty" but with
more reserve.

Benicio Del Toro is downright magnificent. As Alejandro, he delivers
his best performance since "21 Grams." A dedicated sensation that calls
back to all types of performances such as Javier Bardem in "No Country
for Old Men" or Gene Hackman in "The French Connection." You won't be
able to take your eyes off him. Josh Brolin utilizes every ounce of his
charm that has made him one of the most sought after actor's in the
business. A memorable, though understated and undervalued character
that you do want more clarity about. Other cast members like Jon
Bernthal, Jeffrey Donovan, Victor Garber, and especially Daniel Kaluuya
are given their fair share of opportunity, which all take well.

As a technical endeavor, "Sicario" also succeeds in its vibrantly
living sound design, and illustrious score by Academy Award nominee
Jóhann Jóhannsson. The two are married in a blistering union of tension
and heart palpitations. Editor Joe Walker is a shining star behind the
scenes as well, thanks to his precision and patience in bringing a
scene right to the edge, and knowing when and where to take it next.
It's his most innovative work yet, even surpassing his nominated work
on "12 Years a Slave."

Goes without saying that "Sicario" is Denis Villenueve's best work to
date. Coming from someone that thoroughly enjoyed "Prisoners" and
tolerated "Enemy," this is his most accessible and compelling piece. If
anything, he's just so damn exciting to watch these days, as he locates
strange vehicles for actor's and craftsmen to come together. He takes
on a genre that may feel familiar, like the drug cartel, but makes it
feel new and smart.

"Sicario" is hands down one of the year's best films.
<|_=00=_|>
This is like the stuff you see on hour long serialized Television like
Netflix's Narcos, but instead this police like drama is done in a two
hour movie instead of thirteenth episodes.

Emily Blunt was amazing in her character, a good FBI agent who feels
she's not doing enough on the streets and allows herself to get used by
someone with more power, played by Josh Brolin brilliantly as a man who
seems uncharismatic about his job in order to hide the covert nature of
his mission to find the big man responsible for all the street crime.

Brolin played a necessary evil, that comes off brilliantly in the
narrative that plays out. Loved how they go from the bottom and get to
the very top. It's very surgical. 

But the actor who stole the show in Sicario is Benicio del Toro whose
character Alejandro, is a cloud of mystery that unravels slowly through
the film, done both subtle and dramatic by Del Toro. Every time he was
on the screen even when he did nothing he was doing something and you
he demanded your attention.

Plus the music and sound combo of the movie added to the tension. it
was powerful.

Incredible action-thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
The wait is over. Since the trailer came out, I watched it several
times a week. That's how hyped up I was. I finally got to watch
Sicario, Denis Villeneuve's latest film. It got a very positive
reception at the Cannes festival, and got tons of praise from movie
critics worldwide.

My very first recommendation to anyone interested in watching this film
is to not watch the trailer, or don't watch it repeatedly like I did.
Although it's incredibly exciting, it gives way too much away. Sicario
basically consists of approximately 6-7 set-pieces. The trailer shows
key moments from all the set-pieces, and leaves you knowing almost just
as much about the story as you'll get to know watching the actual film.

Sicario features a pretty thin storyline, but to its defence, it's all
part of a tactical approach at keeping things blurry, shady, and
mysterious to the audience. Metaphorically, these mechanisms serve the
story pretty well, as we watch official government agencies use
unorthodox methods and people in this bloody war against the cartels,
and the intent is to offer a glimpse at an ongoing situation and let
the viewer's imagination fill in the blanks.

That came off as a bit of an odd artistic choice to me, as, in recent
years, several films and TV shows have thoroughly explored all the
horrors resulting from the war against drugs at the border area between
the U.S. and Mexico. It's not exactly a brand new subject matter to
worldwide audiences. My point, basically, is that it's an odd timing to
choose such a broad approach to a subject that has become familiar to
the masses. When my imagination had to fill in the blanks, it basically
did it with memories of other films and TV shows exploiting the very
same subject matter, and that dug deeper into it.

All the technical aspects of Sicario are off the charts. Denis
Villeneuve's directing is spectacular. The sequence with the convoy of
SUVs in Juarez has to rank among the most beautifully shot scenes that
we have seen in a while, with a combination of breath-taking shots of
Mexican landscapes, Juarez and its streets, incredible tension building
up inside the vehicles, and how the different characters handle it.
Roger Deakin's cinematography is flawless, as expected. Whether
portraying a dry, sunny afternoon in Arizona or a nightly tactical
operation with agents wearing night vision goggles, Deakins'
contribution shines in every possible way. The same can be said about
the soundtrack and the editing.

One thing that truly surprised me is how Sicario makes its point. It is
intended to leave you with an overall impression on a global situation
(the border war, the cartels, the way government agencies operate,
etc.), and the actual story and characters become purposely subsidiary
in that depiction of a broader picture. This is just another day in
this war, just another set of dirty tactics, just another escalation of
violence, just another dozen of people among thousands doing shady
things in this mess of a war on drugs. 

And if there is one flaw to this film, that's where it lies, in my
humble opinion. Characters and storyline are fundamentals. Without
saying that these two aspects were neglected, I feel like this is where
Villeneuve's film could have reached that next level, but unfortunately
didn't, by keeping everything so vague, and so volatile.

I'm not going to sugar coat it: Emily Blunt's character is
one-dimensional. Her performance is good, but the character has a very
simple purpose in the whole picture, and it never goes beyond that.
Some secondary characters get enough screen time to let you think that
they'll eventually have a true impact on the story, or be part of some
sub-plot. Here again, some minor disappointments as a result. Again,
it's part of a mechanism to make everyone look like a tiny dot in the
big picture, but prevented me from being truly compelled by the story
unfolding and most of the characters that were part of it.

Josh Brolin's and Benicio Del Toro's performances are both amazing,
though. Again, you do not get to know a lot about them. That being
said, the few times when you get to see more than just what's on the
surface, you'll get enough hints to partly understand their true
nature. But again, you'll notice that I had to use the word "partly",
especially when it comes to Brolin's character. A lot is left
unexplained. And while this opens up a world of possibilities where
speculations get darker by the minute, I was left wanting to know more
when the credits started rolling.

Overall, Sicario succeeded in leaving me feeling deceived, just like I
was an extension of Kate Macer. The way it operates is quite unique, as
a lot of unexplained details, characters, and events leave the viewer
speculating in an environment filled with lies, shadiness, and broken
ideals. The visuals and the soundtrack will blow you away. Also, the
final scene was a perfect way to seal the deal, and goes perfectly in
line with the "big picture" approach that this film takes.

Overall, a very entertaining drama/thriller, full of technical
brilliance, and some slightly flawed fundamentals. Definitely worth a
watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really stoked about Sicario and went to see it the night it
opened. Why was I excited? Well, the posters looked cool and I knew
that celebrated director Dennis Villeneuve was expected to deliver a
fresh and intelligent suspense movie with a nice dose of action.

That, plus Benicio del Toro and Josh Brolin are in it, and I think
they're cool.

What I got was a gritty action movie, but unfortunately it wasn't
intelligent or thought-provoking. When I'm watching Expendables 3, I'm
ready to sit back, enjoy the ride and hold back on the nit-picking.
That's not really an option, though, when you have to pay attention to
follow the story, and are promised new insights into a deep-rooted
problem.

*** Spoilers ahead *** I thought it was clever that we see the plot
from the perspective of an ingénue, this time in the form of a
"small-time" FBI agent (Kate Mercer played by Emily Blunt). After her
SWAT team storms a horror house run by the Mexican cartels in which two
of her fellow officers are killed, she's ready to go after the big
guys. Her new CIA-lead team is willing to use "unconventional" (read:
highly questionable) methods. They extract a drug lord from a Mexican
prison and torture him for information. Kate is told that she is there
to "watch and learn", but ultimately she finds out that she is only
there as a goon to legitimize the CIA operating in the homeland. Her
function is not to "watch and learn" but to shut up, keep out and to
sign a paper at the end. For the time being though, the team storms a
tunnel used to smuggle drugs across the border in a scene that seems to
take a page straight out of Zero Dark Twenty ...

*** Spoilers thick on the ground from here on *** Sicario really
annoyed me because it brings together so much promise with an
incredibly lackluster plot. I feel like I could write an entire book
about it. What's the point of the horror house at the beginning? If the
cartel is using it to dispose bodies, why would they shrink-wrap the
corpses? Why are there gun-toting criminals in a house full of
incriminating evidence? Why are the corpses behind dry walls (is the
cartel planning on renting out the house)? Why is the trap-door
booby-trapped? Why do police have to anticipate that in about six
months every further crime scene will be booby-trapped if they don't
stop the cartel now? When they are illegally extracting the cartel boss
from the Mexican prison, why are they doing it in a highly visible
convoy? If they anticipate being ambushed just before the frontier, why
don't they keep a lane open? Why didn't they use a helicopter? Why
don't they just torture the guy in Mexico? What are the ambushers
trying to achieve? What is the role of the crooked cop? Could he be any
hammier than carrying a gel bend around that the cartel uses to hold
their bankrolls together? And on and on.

Five points because of the acting and the cinematography. For an
intelligent thriller on the Mexican drugs war, I'd recommend Traffic
over Sicario any time.
<|_=00=_|>
Jesus.

This was intense. So much so that it made me kind of uncomfortable. I
was squirming in my seat. And it was extremely dark. Not color wise,
but the subject matter. Villeneuve really knows how to take the most
vile subjects and turn them into wholly compelling cinema.

The cast was uniformly excellent. The big three of Blunt, Brolin & Del
Toro are all crazy good. Even though Blunt has the lead role it's
definitely not a showy part...it's very understated with a lot of it
consisting of looks. An internal performance, for sure, but one that
might just be the best of her career. Brolin is given a role that at
first seems like nothing more than comic relief, but as the film goes
on he keeps becoming more and more a part of the character until close
to the end when all the jokes disappear and he becomes something else
entirely. It was really cool to see that transition. Very good work
from him and there are times where it feels like he's stealing the
whole movie away from the others. Which brings me to Mr. Del Toro. What
else is there to say except Ho Lee Sh!t. This man was just on a
completely different level with this performance. Another one that
begins very internal consisting of a lot of looks mixed with one or two
word responses...then gradually as the film progresses and his
background and motives become clearer he, like Brolin, becomes
something else entirely. But at the same time never going overboard
with it...still keeping that quiet intensity he's had throughout. All
three performances are absolutely fantastic and among the best of the
year. Hell, Del Toro's might even be the best of the year. Haunting
stuff.

As mentioned above this a very intense film. The set-pieces in this are
unbelievable. The opening raid, The Border crossing, The night-
vision/tunnel sequence and finally The dinner scene. Just pure
craziness.

With that being said - I don't think this is an Oscar movie. It's just
way too dark for the Academy's liking. Very much like Villeneuve's
Prisoners, both films are more than deserving of awards attention, but
unfortunately the Academy rarely goes for films this dark.

See this movie ASAP. Preferably in a theater. Just know you might need
a shower afterward.
<|_=00=_|>
Sicario doesn't live up to the hype. Emily Blunt's character runs
around and stumbles upon things like she's Bella Swan from Twilight:
New Moon. Benicio Del Toro's character's story is the most interesting
part of the movie but, his story doesn't come about until halfway into
the movie. Emily Blunt is completely underutilized here; Her character
makes some of the stupidest decisions but, some of it is justified. All
Emily Blunt really does in this movie is stumble upon things, makes
stupid decisions, and smokes a ton of cigarettes. Benicio Del Toro is a
bad-ass in this movie and his scenes are the most interesting, but Del
Toro's story isn't engaging enough because it is lacking what the rest
of the movie is lacking... a story. Sicario plays more on beats, tone,
images, and simplicity rather than dramatic story elements and
sentimental emotion. This movie is extremely blood soaked, violent, and
sometimes haunting, but that's all it has going for it. This movie
means nothing, it starts nowhere, and it ends nowhere. The movie is
100% predictable minus a couple of moments with Del Toro towards the
end. If you want to see a boring tension-filled blood-soaked horror
feast than enjoy. If you want to see an engaging and emotionally
charged character driven story (including all of the extreme
blood-soaked horror violence) than pass on this one because it's not
present.
