
Horror is one of my favorite movie genres. I really wasn't expecting to
hate this as much as I did but it is astonishingly terrible. Really. I
loved The Conjuring - this is nothing like The Conjuring. At all. It's
a blatant cash-grab and a terrible one at that.

There is zero tension throughout this movie. Zero suspense. Everything
is reliant on close ups of the dolls face to "creep" us out and really
long periods of time where NOTHING HAPPENS. Literally, it's about this
couple that we do not care about and their stupid problems which we
care even less about. I don't know if they were trying to build
suspense in these scenes but in order to build suspense you actually
have to care about the characters. Or at least have, you know,
suspense; a lingering sense of danger. This had nothing. And holy hell
that ending. 

The positives of this movie: The lead girl is beautiful. She's easy to
look at. The soundtrack is pretty cool too. That's it. The characters
are horrendous and the acting is even worse. Seriously if you're going
to make a movie this awful at least have the decency to take an acting
lesson or two. It's a dreadful watch. Please, don't waste your time
with this cash grab sh*t stain. Don't give them the satisfaction. Watch
something good like Sinister or 1408 - haunting movies done right.
<|_=00=_|>
There were only two, count em', two well constructed and (more
importantly) scary sequences throughout this entire HORROR MOVIE (the
home invasion part and the elevator bit). If that fact alone is enough
to get one person not to watch "Annabelle", then I've done my job as a
critic.

If you went into "Annabelle" wanting to see something along the lines
of "Child's Play" or at the very least, a doll-centric horror movie
where dolls are either animated in some fashion or at the very least,
trip someone as they walk down the stairs, then you will be savagely
disappointed. On the other hand, if you were a fan of the small snippet
of Annabelle's story shown in "The Conjuring" and wanted a terrifying
and in-depth origins story, then youwill be disappointed as well.

Synopsis: With an engaging set up, set against the rampant cult-phobia
of the 60's, "Annabelle" is the story of a couple living in California
who begin to experience paranormal occurrences after the husband gifts
his pregnant, doll-crazed wife a doll, that soaks up blood faster than
a Bounty paper towel. After that, the plot falls pretty flat by turning
its focus away from the scary doll element, as the story becomes 10%
"Rosemary's Baby", 20% every single haunted house movie ever and 70%
watered down scares.

Aside from the fact that not for one second did I care about any of the
characters here, for the most part director John R. Leonetti (the
director of photography of "The Conjuring") does a lazy job of
"conjuring" up scares. For about 80 minutes of this 98 minute film,
every single scare follows the ultra uncreative quiet, quiet, quiet,
LOUD, formula. About 20 minutes in, it becomes obvious that Leonetti is
either just going through the motions or doing a rather poor job of
plagiarizing much scarier films.

Final Thought: Much like the countless throw away, straight to DVD
Disney animated sequels to come out of late the 90's and early 2000's
(Pocahontas 2: Journey to a New World, The Little Mermaid 2: Return to
the Sea, Cinderella 2: Dreams Come True") "Annabelle" (a prequel) is
nothing more than a soulless money-grab from this particular production
company, attempting to feed off the success of "The Conjuring". No
mention of Ed and Lorraine Warren (real life paranormal investigators
from "The Conjuring") no James Wan (the director of "The Conjuring")
and not one doll-induced scare, all seemed to have a hand in making
"Annabelle" a strikingly forgettable film. I mean, in "The Conjuring",
the Annabelle doll is only used in all of three scenes, but due to some
smart direction, those are some of the scariest potions of the movie.
In "Annabelle", the titular doll is used throughout and it's not even a
little bit creepy. What gives?
<|_=00=_|>
As a prequel and spin-off of The Conjuring  2013's highly effective
horror film  Annabelle does what it promises, even if it does so one
jump and one jolt at a time. But that's all you get, jumpy scenes done
to perfection, with little or no atmosphere and a story that
disintegrates before it reaches a satisfying conclusion.

One of the most important aspects of The Conjuring and older sibling
Insidious (both films directed by James Wan), is the cinematography and
how it wreaks havoc with the viewer's peripheral vision. By this I am
referring to events occurring off-center, or in some corner of the
screen that is oblivious to on-screen characters but very obvious to
the viewer. Consider a scene where a mother watches over her new born
baby. The scene is shot in the living room where the right half of the
frame is composed of the mother and her baby and the left half is a
hallway that leads to other rooms in the house. Without shifting focus
from the mother and child, we see something or someone lurking in the
hallway behind; something that shouldn't be there in the first place.
While this tactic is nothing new to horror-thrillers, it works for the
whole purpose of inducing dread, thick and slow, before the actual jolt
hits a few seconds later. The scariest scenes in Annabelle are made up
of these moments, and at times we are left guessing what lurks in the
corners. And is probably why cinematographer John R Leonetti of those
preceding films is tasked with directorial duties in this film, while
Wan himself is bumped up to producer. Leonetti plays it safe by
treading down Wan's beaten path but without any surprises of his own.

Playing the aforementioned mother is Annabelle Wallis (freaky
coincidence?) as Mia Gordon. Mia has a doll collection, one of which is
the titular vintage doll gifted by her medical student husband John
(Ward Horton). After surviving a horrific attack from a satanic cult,
the Gordons have new guests that won't leave. At first Mia starts
seeing things and becomes increasingly paralysed by fear while John
begins to doubt her sanity. It's a stock approach to crying wolf in
horror movies. It takes a while to dawn on them that something has
latched on to Annabelle, making the doll a conduit with increasing
intent on harming them and their new born baby. Consultations with a
librarian and a priest reveal far greater implications, thus leaving
these young parents to ward off hell by going right through it.

On one hand, the look and feel in this film is a copy-paste version of
Insidious, but concentrated with sporadic moments of numbing fright.
We've seen it before in classic horror films  young parents who must
literally go through hell to save their child's soul. It's the same
concept here but effective enough for a low budget horror film. Like a
stern disciple, Leonetti is on par with Wan's technical approach.
Cinematography, hair raising sound design (including deliberate moments
without sound), and some decent tension will garner a few screams from
the audience, but that's about it. On the downside, there isn't much of
a story for a script based on real events and don't even expect
anything along the lines of an animated 'Çhucky' doll. It's not about
what the doll can do but about what's in the doll -If only they had
built on that frame of thought. After some well-timed jump scares in
the first half, all we are left with is a murky conclusion owing to
underwritten supporting cast members whose inclusion leaves the ending
stale and cheap.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a horror movie fan - I'm a fan of the original evil dead trilogy to
Romero to Poltergeist, korean horror, french horror etc... I'm also a
fan of the new wave of horror. I'm a fan of the Conjuring as it was a
film that made me think the art of a horror movie is back. 

First off... this isn't made by James Wan... it's made by it's
filmographer so off of the bat you're probably going to get some cool
scenes but perhaps lack of character development. The budget of
Annabelle is $5 million (that's 1/4 of what the Conjuring cost). Let me
tell you the script is the weakest part of this film.

The movie starts off slow... this is where the film should really get
you into the characters but there isn't much here, it's generic. It's
the weakest part of the film. You have your standard couple... man goes
to work, woman stays home and experiences weird stuff. The problem with
this is that it's hard for you to bother to relate to the characters.
This kind of kills the film for me. There were actually a lot that
could have been explored but they didn't touch like the kids in the
apartment.

Now the good. There is very little CGI - perhaps none. It's all old
school. This is something that anyone could actually film.... chair
moving, oven is on, someone standing there. It's good. It works.
There's a great scene here with a baby. Are there enough scares? Not
really. The pay off for the film felt like they might have fixed the
movie for censors but even though the film is Rated R.

There's a lot missing in this film. It's not horrible. It's worth a
rental. It's your average horror movie.
<|_=00=_|>
About a minute into this film I squealed out of fear when they put the
Annabelle doll into frame. I have a genuine fear of dolls like this.
They freak me out. Therefore I was excited about this movie - I
sincerely thought that there would finally be another movie out there
that would manage to scare me (I have 3 in total so far). Sadly this is
not the case. The movie was boring and predictable. The worst thing was
that they have this terrifying creature-object-thing to make good use
of and they failed miserably at using it. I'm genuinely disappointed at
the reuse of the same old washed up horror storyline. How'd this script
even get approved??! booo! I wish I wrote it so they could actually see
what fear of a doll is haha.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start off by stating that as a devout Horror fan with a special
liking to ghost stories, haunts and exorcisms, I have really enjoyed
The Conjuring. Therefore, my anticipation towards this pseudo- prequel
is to be understood, as well as my disappointment...

Perhaps it was the fact that James Wan was only an executive producer
of this film that has made it wreak of mediocrity, especially compared
to the first. Most of this film's component are exactly that: mediocre.
The acting lacked the charisma and screen presence of Patrick Wilson
(Ed Warren in The Conjuring), though I must say that Alfre Woodard
(Evelyn) and Tony Amendola (Father Perez) were certain light spots. The
story feels like it came out of an automated template machine given the
basic "create me a mediocre haunting story" order, and again, compared
to The Conjuring simply doesn't make the cut.

So why the slightly generous rating? For a few reasons:

1) Say what you will, that doll is one of the scariest, creepiest and
most horrifying things I have ever seen both on screen and in life.
Whoever created that doll's exterior should be either given a reward
for being a genius or committed to a mental ward for being sick in the
head (and I say that with the utmost respect, that doll is a work of
art). Unlike The Conjuring, Annabelle gives the doll a lot more well
deserved screen time.

2) The cinematography is at its best with the quick shots, giving the
audience sometimes less than a second to realize what they're seeing.
Showing demons, ghosts and such evil presences in that manner really
adds to the fear factor in my opinion, for Hollywood is yet to realize
how to portrait a demon that is scary for those of us who aren't
religious Christians (and I say that with no disrespect whatsoever to
Christians or Christianity). I like to use Insidious (another Wanderful
masterpiece, if you haven't seen it stop reading RIGHT NOW and go see
it) as an example - the one thing really lowering the film is the demon
shown there. In Annabelle, demons are shown, but for a snap shot,
leaving much to imagination which serves to add to the scare gauage.

3) Plot actually gets pretty intense towards the end, but only towards
the end.

So all in all, perhaps had I watched this film before The Conjuring I
would have been able to be more objective, but seeing as how I am
unable to ignore it's shortcomings - I give it 6.5, meaning you should
definitely watch it (especially if you liked The Conjuring) but you
shouldn't expect it to meet The Conjuring's level.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay folks. This not an Oscar film for sure. It is also not ground
breaking by any means. Hell the only thing even remotely true about the
film is the first maybe three minutes. This is every horror movie you
have ever seen rolled into one. One minute you feel like your watching
Rosemary's Baby. Then Rosemary is in the Amityville house. The next
moment here comes Chucky with even a little Helter Skelter thrown into
the mix. But everything I could say that is wrong with this film is
exactly why it works. it embraces its cheese factor. Even revels in it
at times. The film has some great scares and in a few cases some real
interesting ones. It is just simply a lot of fun to watch with a lot of
people. So much so, when Annabelle reveals herself fully you find
yourself really into it. I thought the ending was weak but by the time
you get to the end it would be very hard to raise the level suspense
any higher. There is a scene with a sewing machine and Jiffy Pop which
I think should go down in horror movie history for the right way to
build suspense. It was funny listening to the audiences nervous giggles
as something was about to happen. Go to this as entertainment and
nothing more. Nothing deep here. Very little real here. It is based on
a true story. However, based is a very loose word here. Three minutes
is based upon a true story. Just good October fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I have watched many many scary movies, some good some bad, none truly
scary. Anyone who reviewed this film as scary or awesome obviously has
not seen the film. This is a complete snore-fest, from start to finish.
I saw perhaps 3 "jump out of seat" scenes where it was totally
predictable on it and was yawning each time. The conjuring was a
terrific film, and this one is just trying to score big bucks off that
name with 1/4 the budget. I was left feeling angry and cheated. There
was no depth, no character relation, no story-line, nothing to get you
even remotely into the film, except "saw the previews, this is gonna be
so good !" feeling you saw when you watched the previews and couldn't
wait for this to come out. A complete letdown in all aspects except the
fact it actually ended and I could go do something else.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is hilariously bad. I brought it back for me and my
girlfriend, and we watched it. This film really tried to pull off the
'omg-look-behind-you' and
'im-really-stupid-so-im-not-going-to-pick-up-that-gun'-type mentatily.
I understand this is part of the Horror genre that i so love, but..
this is ridiculous to the point to making fun of you. Because of this,
you will probably want to shut it off about 2/3 through, by that stage
the shitness couldn't bring me to care about the already weak
characters any more anyway, unfortunately. Started so well. What a
shame.
<|_=00=_|>
We have met the creepy vintage doll Annabelle before in last year's
excellent and very memorable horror film "The Conjuring." She was just
the front act there, showing up only at the pre-opening credits
sequence. This year, we get to know Annabelle more and how she came to
be demonically possessed.

The setting of this film is in the 1960s in a California suburb. Young
couple John and Mia are expecting their first child. One day, John
surprises Mia, who was a vintage doll collector, with a huge antique
doll with painted ivory face wearing white satin dress adorned by a red
bow. It just so happened that same night, crazy satanic cultists attack
their home and there was resulting bloodshed. However, since that
night, there was no more peace in John and Mia's household, especially
after she gives birth to their daughter, Leah.

I liked the throwback look of this film, with its faded color palette
and meticulous production design. The architecture, interior design,
fashion, hairstyles, television shows, pop music all captured the era
so well. Even the look of cutie baby Leah was vintage, like the Gerber
baby. These things also contributed to the scariness factor because of
the limitation of technology that the characters have on hand. 

A big part of the success of "Annabelle" as a horror film is the
effective lead performance of coincidentally-named Annabelle Wallis as
Mia. The character's name Mia, I am guessing, is a tribute to Mia
Farrow, who was the star of a horror classic of the 1960s, "Rosemary's
Baby." The stroller Mia uses for Leah sure looked like Rosemary's
stroller which is seen in posters of that old film. Ms. Wallis has an
elegant beauty and her acting was sympathetic without becoming cheesy.

Ward Horton plays Mia's husband John, who is a medical student, which
makes a convenient excuse for him to be a skeptic and always on call
during the night, leaving Mia in the house watching television or
working on her sewing machine. Veteran actress Alfre Woodard is the
only familiar face in the cast, and she plays their helpful neighbor
Evelyn. Her character though had a story arc which probably the only
negative thing I could say about this film.

John R. Leonetti, the cinematographer of "Insidious 1 & 2" and "The
Conjuring" makes an auspicious directorial debut with "Annabelle." He
learned very well from his his previous director James Wan, who sits as
producer of this film. You can see he has the eye for the perfect views
for the most effective suspense and surprise. 

I liked the cinematography that employs camera angles that give you the
point of view of the tormented victim so that you too do not know what
will happen next. The suspense could be so intense so many times, with
the excellent editing and splicing of scenes together accompanied by a
swelling crescendo of music. The timing for the big jump scare was
effectively surprising most of the time, even you were sort of
predicting it to happen already.

This is a film which may divide audiences as to whether it could match
the successes of "Insidious" or "The Conjuring." As it is, I liked
"Annabelle" more than I thought I would. I was expecting the worst,
since I hated how the Annabelle doll looked and I can't imagine anyone
wanting one like it in their house. However, the film managed to
transcend that limitation and actually create genuine scares that
worked.
