
I am a survivor of playing on high school concussions. I finally quit
playing by so many positive family influences in my life. I grew up
playing Texas football, the "American Dream". I received my final
football concussion in 2000 and discontinued playing football. Troy
Aikman was the only one anyone talked about at this time regarding
concussions and everyone thought he was fine. What they didn't talk
about which this movie does a great job is pointing out all the players
that died or had violent disruptive behavior due to post conclusion
syndrome. I rated this movie a 10 because there will be millions of
dollars spent to make the movie go away. It's important for every
parent in America to understand what football can do to your kids.
Football is a great sport but their can be serious life consequences
that can come from it. 

Football 2000 years later will be looked at as Roman Gladiators once
were. 

I loved every minute of my experience with football growing up. But the
reality is the overwhelming effects this sport causes to our brains. 

It was once said to me that if the brain injury could be seen on the
outside of your body it wouldn't even be a question if football would
still be a sport. However, it's not and that's why it's unspoken. 

I very much support this movie and I am glad that Sony Pictures (only
non nfl contract) took the liberty to show people what this sport's
health effects can have on young kids and adults. 

Hope you enjoy my real-life review. I feel lucky to be alive. Lucky
that I was surrounded by people that could think there was more to life
then the "American Dream". God Bless
<|_=00=_|>
I've played football at every level and nearly every professional
football league possible for the last 20 years of my life and trust me
when I say this movie is a MUST SEE!! After watching "Concussion" with
my son on Christmas day I had an epic awakening of common sense. The
movie hit home so hard for me that I will no longer support the game of
football. I will not play, coach, or watch it again until overall
awareness and change is set in place for the affects of playing the
game to be accounted for in some kind of way on a large scale. I have
played this game for the last 20 years of my life and have physically
felt the affects of it more and more each year. If you have played this
game you know the "SuperMan" like culture that comes with it. How it is
a sin to get hurt or say "I have a headache". I will no longer turn a
blind eye to the long term affects of ignoring the phrase. What the
normal fan or anyone who hasn't played the game at a high level doesn't
know is the stress and depression that comes with leaving the game. I'd
equate it to being the same as losing a spouse of 30+ years but add 100
blows to the head every day of each year. You already feel lost and
meaningless but you also have years of brain damage which inflates the
process. I grew up with a love for football because of its culture, all
the great things it taught me, and the qualities it brought out of me
and my "brothers", my teammates. BUT all of that is not worth my life
after football. The fact of the matter is we as a society have turned a
blind eye to the long term affects of playing football and I refuse to
be a part of the problem any longer. This movie is not as visually
gripping as it could have been and it also doesn't expand anywhere near
as far as it could have on the obvious occurrence of brain injuries
throughout every level of the sport but it gets right to the point and
it shines light on the facts. The sport isn't going anywhere safe until
the NFL does and the NFL has not and probably will not because of
money. If change in the sport is going to occur it has to start at the
top. After watching this movie every parent has to question if they
want their child to participate in this sport. For me and my children,
it's a definite "No-Brainer".
<|_=00=_|>
The acting was Oscar worthy, the science behind the discovery was
fascinating, and the fact that it's based on a true story is
incredible. It's proof that one person can make a difference. What is
more impressive is after watching the film I discovered that this movie
was a watered-down version of the original script. Even though Sony
tried to avoid legal issues with the NFL by softening the script, I
still found it spellbinding.

I will say that I think it's ironic Sony made a movie about a man
taking a stand against the NFL yet Sony pictures, with all their
resources, are too afraid to do the same.
<|_=00=_|>
The film Concussion describes the incredible journey by Nigerian Dr.
Bennet Omalu (wonderfully played by Will Smith) who uncovered a
shocking revelation about the damaging effects football collisions have
on its players. More specifically, players whom often went misdiagnosed
(e.g. Alzheimer's disease). Dr. Omalu was the first to bring the issue
of head-to-head collisions to light, addressing it as a very real
problem in need of being fixed by the influential football
organizations.

This story of one man's remarkable strength and fortitude, sticking to
what was right ultimately pushed the Nigerian doctor never to give up
in the face of relentless attempts by the NFL to stifle such findings.
What Dr. Omalu was able to do will undoubtedly go down in history
books, to be read by training clinicians, aspiring lawyers, and many
other professionals. A look deep into ethics, and how the "good guy"
can also be the one to come out on top.

If there was ever debate over Smith's talent, it surely could be
disregarded after this performance. Many an actor/actress have accepted
the daunting task of a role requiring the use of a foreign accentÂ… and
very, VERY few can do so successfully. Will Smith will undoubtedly turn
heads as this film continues to roll out across the nation.

It is only a shame that the release of the film coincides with that of
renowned director Quentin Tarantino's "The Hateful 8" which will likely
make this particular motion picture pass by unnoticed for many a
mainstream viewer.

The lead by Will Smith alone carries Concussion. Don't miss an
opportunity to watch something beautiful on screen: an extremely
talented actor achieving something which is beyond impressive. To
encapsulate a Nigerian immigrant in such a way that comes across as so
raw and valid... that is what made this film the powerhouse that it is.

----- 8/10 STARS -------- Review by Searsino -----
<|_=00=_|>
#Concussion has made me see what athletes go through from a different
angle and I'm saying that as a man who didn't grow up a fan of American
football. CONCUSSION is a compelling David Vs. Goliath story, it's a
true great American story, and it's Will Smith's best performance since
2006's "The Pursuit Of Happiness" Written and directed by Peter
Landesman, based on the GQ article "Game Brain," you've all seen the
trailer for CONCUSSION which has Will Smith playing real life
accomplished forensic neuropathologist, Dr. Bennet Omalu, who
discovered a disease called Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE)
which a progressive degenerative disease found in people with a history
of repetitive brain trauma, and it's commonly found nowadays in
pro-football player because they get repeated bows to the head every
time they play, this is a heavy contact sport, as we all know.

So the film is about this immigrant doctor with high ethical standards
and he truly loves America and yet the America he loves seems to be
trying to shut him up because he's basically going up against the sport
Americans live and breath for and one of the biggest most capitalistic
organizations in the country. When you're messing with a giant business
because you've discovered a truth about them that they don't like or a
truth that might hurt their profit-making, you're bound to get bullied
by the giant.

I had my worries at first, I thought Will Smith's attempt on Nigerian
accent may distract or it may make him into a caricature instead of an
embodiment but fortunately, that's not what happened. Will Smith's
performance in this film really burns with convictions, he will have
you take his side in a heartbeat. There's a bit of "A Few Good Men"
'tell me the truth you can't handle the truth' sorta moment mixed with
Denzel Washington's 'love's gonna bust me out' moment in "Hurricane" so
it's clear that over the years, Will has learned from his fellow
masters and honed his skills or his artistry to perfection. Somebody
told me once that Will is a big fan of the Philadelphia Eagles team, so
it's interesting to see him play the role of a man who takes on the
NFL.

The film itself is set in a way that makes you feel like you're going
on an uphill battle. I think writer/director Peter Landesman approached
it in a way that doesn't demonize American football, but sheds a light
on the truth about it, just like what the real Dr. Omalu did. It is
also a story about immigrants, a fact which sadly a lot of Americans
today seem to forget, that we are a nation of immigrants.

CONCUSSION will surely give rise to discussions not just among NFL
players and team owners but also among audiences and football fans. But
will the discussion only last a dinner table's length and then be
forgotten once Sunday game comes around again? I read up after watching
the movie and found that the NFL still makes excuses in admitting the
impact CTE has on their players. They've done settlements, they've paid
millions of dollars to families, they've changed some things about the
way the game is played but keep in mind that this is a big money-making
business, so when money is at stake, unfortunately human lives get
negotiated over.

The way the NFL handles this reminds me of how right wing politicians
try to repudiate climate change, by hiring their own scientists, some
of whom may not even be experts on the field study, because those
politicians have been bought by fossil fuel businesses. So point being,
change in America can happen but it does not happen overnight, it's a
slow and painful process as long as there's money involved.
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched this movie and blew my mind. The acting, the story line,
together with science and drama, were perfect. Very inspiring movie,
since is based on true case. Truth always come true, it is just a mere
of time and this movie shows that by telling us what it is to be a
pioneer and a messenger of truth. This is a must-see movie.

Also, I identified myself with main character. I immigrant doctor with
so much respect and aspirations for the USA, that slowly discoveries
the dark side of big corporation. In fact, this is not only America
problem, it is human nature and can be find anywhere in this planet. 

Finally, I think Will Smith should be nominated for best actor - Oscar.
He pulled out a very good role in playing the Nigerian pathology
doctor... wanna know more? go and watch the movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Concussion is a biographical picture that takes place in the early
2000's. The movie starts out by showing these players who freak out and
start getting dimentia. Will Smith is a pathologist who starts doing
autopsies on these players and discovers that there is a common theme,
being repeated head trauma to the brain. The NFL knew about what was
going on, but didn't say anything. Will Smith tries to shine light on
the situation but the NFL does what it can so that the story does not
leak. 

This movie was a movie I had been looking forward to for a long time
because I thought it was very courageous for a movie to tackle this
(pun intended) especially with the NFL playoffs right around the
corner. This movie certainly makes a statement, but doesn't pack the
punch I was hoping to see. Now this movie is not all bad. Will Smith
delivers his best performance to date, which he is already being
acknowledged for a golden globes (as he should be). He is phenomenal in
his role and is committed. Smith does have an accent, but after a
couple minutes, you forget that there even is an accent, and you truly
believe he talks the way he does. As for the other performances, they
were top notch as well. 

Besides the performances "Concussion" is a let down. By the end you
will find yourself wanting more. There is so much more you wanted to
learn about the matter at hand, that the movie drifts away from. The
movie ends up being more about Will Smiths character than the football
itself, which is fine, but not the movie I thought I was going to see.
But it did take away from the balance of the movie. 

In the end, As a quarterback I wanted Concussion to go for the endzone,
but it ends up doing more of a button hook.
<|_=00=_|>
If anyone is a die hard NFL fan like me and follows the game and the
sports world and the news, you know that over the years the league has
been facing the problem of how to deal with player concussions and how
to protect them better, and what to do when the players retire. The
film "Concussion" deals with that on going drama just fine as it
follows the research and work of one real life pathologist Dr. Bennet
Omalu(played in a tough strong performance manner from Will Smith). Set
in Pittsburgh after the deaths of several star former Steeler players
most notable that being hall of fame center Mike Webster(in a gritty
performance from David Morse)who due to many hits to the head developed
all kinds of problems like hearing voices, and loss of reality as he
even had to live away from his family taking shelter in his own truck
before falling to suicide by a head gunshot wound. The film is somewhat
sad and emotional as you see the broken down players and hear the
stories of their problems and passing. Dr. Omalu is one pathologist
who's eager and willing to find out more and why and what drove these
former players to young deaths by suicide, so thru his work he finds
brain damage in these former players who suffered concussions and all
would develop a new disease CTE. At first his medical news is doubted
by others doctor's(played well by Alec Baldwin and Albert Brooks)yet
they are slowly broken in to believe yet the challenge to face the NFL
with the news is the toughest, as the film states you are going to war
with a corporation that owns a day of the week even over the church and
of course that's Sunday as the NFL has risen to sports entertainment
that's at the top of the mountain. Finally Dr. Omalu's voice and
discovery does get the league's attention and many former players and
current ones take the issue to capital hill and congress. Overall
"Concussion" is one film that's an emotional drama of discovery and it
searches for the truth wanting answers to a new NFL problem that has
expanded.
<|_=00=_|>
I have watched with interest the wave of change moving through the
world after CTE (Chronic traumatic encephalopathy) was revealed to be
occurring in young football players and not just boxers. A PBS doco
from a few years ago was enlightening and described how the American
football industry fought against the science. While this film tells the
story more or less accurately (as I understand it) it does so in such a
clichÃ©d and insulting manner it is barely watchable. 

OK so it's got Will Smith in it, enough said. I think he is a good
actor, but he tends to make awful films (Six digress was clearly an
anomaly). I never found him believable as Dr Bennet Omalu, the
radically religious pathologist from Nigeria who stumbles upon the
first ever documented CTE case. Maybe it was the accent, maybe it was
the performance. But he just seemed like a mellowed out Will Smith
talking in a funny accent rather than a real person who I felt was
worth investing 2 hours in.

The film-makers were obliged to tack on a romantic sub-plot to give
Smith something other to do than cut up the brains of dead footballers.
The long list of not nice things which happen to the devout doctor are
peppered with your typical Hollywood mechanisms, trying to force you to
feel empathy and join the cast on an emotional journey. It just doesn't
work... we've seen it all before: Sport as a form of patriotism, the
tragedy, the unrealistic soundtrack (turns out Nigerian doctors enjoy
listening to nice accessible 70's soul music when they are working,
none of that weird African stuff you might expect them to listen to). I
knew the story and I still wasn't able to care about what was happening
to these people. 

What this comes down to is Hollywood trying to take a collision between
sport and science to the lowest common denominator. American football
gets a mention in this film, therefore football fans might be part of
the audience, therefore they need to dumb this down as much as possible
for them. They actually refrain from even naming the types of proteins
causing the brain damage, instead having smith refer to them as "bad
proteins". 

What films like this do is remind me how the film-makers don't actually
care about the story, they are creating a product and ultimately want
to sell their product to as many people as possible using as little
creativity as possible. They even end the film with a nice feel good
dollop of sickening patriotism, revealing that Dr Omalu has become an
American citizen. They chose to finish with that detail but ignore the
fact that as a result of Omalu's determination to have the issue placed
under the spotlight, sporting codes all around the world are
reassessing how contact sports are trained and played, with concussion
assessments being implemented on game day in soccer, rugby, Australian
rules etc. 

But why would the film-makers care about that? They have awards to
win...
<|_=00=_|>
When you are going to make a film about a sensitive subject, the number
one rule is you have to make sure its a dam good one! Peter Landsman i
take my hat off to you as you have delivered a brilliant film in
concussion, the story of Dr Bennett Omalu who uncovers the dark truth
about brain injury sustained in American football and how Dr Bennett
was persecuted and branded a liar by the NFL and its teams. It is a
beautiful David vs goliath true story how a doctor will do whatever it
takes for the truth he discovered the condition known as CTE to be
taken seriously and to try save lives. Will Smith is inspirational and
shows why he is one of the best actors around and when you have a
supporting cast of Alec Baldwin and Albert Brooks you have to be on top
of your game and Will Smith nails it. I highly advise you to watch the
gripping true story as not only will you learn something new but also
have a new found respect for American football.
