
Robert Zemeckis continue's to be of the best director's in Hollywood.
He has made a beautiful movie and even though you know what happens, he
keeps you gripping your armrests and holding your breath until the very
end. Joseph Gordon-Levitt shines in this role along with the rest of
the cast.

I suppose this review is also for the people who were in New York
during 9/11. As a survivor of 9/11, I couldn't help but cry at the end
of the movie. Seeing the Twin Towers rising in all their glory, basking
in the sunset and reminding us of their beauty that so many of us took
for granted, brought back so many emotions for me. They were like old
friends saying hello and goodbye one last time.

Thank you Zemeckis for telling a great story, making a beautiful movie
and bringing back old friends to life!

If possible, go see it in IMAX! You won't regret it!
<|_=00=_|>
The Walk is a 2015 American 3D biographical drama film directed by
Robert Zemeckis and written by Christopher Browne and Zemeckis. It is
based on the story of French high-wire artist Philippe Petit's walk
between the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center on August 7, 1974.

This terrific movie has all the elements of success: true story, great
acting,good drama,sweet romance and a nice comedy.

The 3D Special Effects Are Excellent Indeed and the direction was
great.

This PG Movie Is A Real Recommended Masterpiece that will enchant
adults,teens and children.

Truly Deserves 10 Out Of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
The Walk is a true story about high-wire artist, Philippe Petit(Joseph
Gordon-Levitt). Ever since he was a boy, Philippe has always been
fascinated by the art of tightrope walking. After mastering the art of
tightrope walking, Philippe will now attempt to achieve the impossible.
With the help of a small crew, Philippe will pull off a coup, as he
calls it, & use his high-wire to walk the massive distance between the
Twin Towers of the World Trade Center in New York City. This is
Philippe Petit's ultimate dream. 

The Walk is a masterpiece. It is an extremely realistic & immersive
theater experience. Director Robert Zemeckis has done a wonderful job
in recreating the actual events of Petit's life. The last 40 minutes of
the film, is worth the ticket price alone. The Walk is my all time
favorite 3D movie. Right from the first scene, till the last scene, the
3D provides both immense depth & many eye-popping moments. The
cinematography is wonderful. Both Paris & New York City in the 1970s,
have been portrayed beautifully. When Petit takes that climactic walk
between the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center the 3D definitely
adds to the thrill of the experience. If you have a fear of heights or
even otherwise, you will be on the edge of your seat as Philippe Petit
embarks on one of the most dangerous feats ever attempted, in the
history of mankind. You will be hoping against hope that Philippe Petit
successfully completes his life changing walk. Joseph Gordon-Levitt is
outstanding as Philippe Petit. The fact that Gordon-Levitt learned the
art of tightrope walking & speaks in an authentic French accent is
commendable. Charlotte Le Bon is great as Annie. Ben Kingsley is superb
as Papa Rudy. Clement Sibony is brilliant as Jean-Louis. Cesar Domboy
is amazing as Jeff/Jean-Francois. Steve Valentine is good as Barry
Greenhouse. James Badge Dale is awesome as Jean-Pierre/J.P. Ben
Schwartz & Benedict Samuel are impressive as Albert & David
respectively. The Walk is a must watch. If you're not a movie buff but,
you want to watch one movie in the theater this year, make it The Walk.
<|_=00=_|>
The Walk is a visual masterpiece with a captivating story and superb
acting. It was intense, thrilling, and emotional. The cinematography
was top notch and the CGI was impeccable. This was truly an amazing
cinematic experience that was made for IMAX 3D. 

The basic story of The Walk is this: a French street performer becomes
obsessed with hanging a high wire between the two Twin Towers and
walking on it. He flies to New York, recruits a few people to help him,
and after weeks of of planning, is ready to perform an impossible stunt
that will be remembered forever. The script is very well written and
the story comes across very nicely to the viewer. It focuses on all the
right moments for the right amount of time, which means the pacing is
generally good. My only problem arises in the beginning as I felt it
was a little rushed. Character development is also not the finest, but
it is enough to make the viewer care about the characters. Other than
that the story was told in a very captivating way that left viewer on
the edge of their seat.

The Walk is a visual treat, specifically the last part of the film.
There are magnificent, swooping camera shots showing off the beautiful
Twin Towers in all their glory and with IMAX 3D, the viewer feels like
they are thousands of feet in the air on the high wire. There were
multiple times in this movie where vertigo kicked in due to the crazy
heights portrayed in the film. The cinematography really helps the
viewer become immersed in the experience as there are so many memorable
shots of the Twin Towers and views of New York City. The CGI used to
create this wonderful experience looks insanely real and really makes
one appreciate the beauty and height of the Twin Towers. When Philippe
Petit is on the high wire, wind and distant traffic noises are added to
the incredible CGI to enhance the feeling of being 110 stories up in
the air and with moving camera angles, the experience is beautiful and
realistic. 

The acting in this movie is superb. Joseph Gordon-Levitt is amazing as
Philippe Petit and really does a good job showing how insane Petit
really was. Charlotte Le Bon also does a fine job portraying Petit's
girlfriend, and Ben Kingsley gives a good performance as Petit's
mentor. All the supporting cast give great performances as well.

Robert Zemeckis does an amazing job making this movie as intense and
thrilling as possible. His direction really made this movie what it is;
and it is visual spectacle told within a great story. 

In the end, The Walk is a visually thrilling and intensely told
masterpiece. It boast beautiful cinematography, flawless CGI, great
acting and direction, and a captivating story. This is truly a movie to
behold in IMAX 3D and one will come out of the theater feeling
immensely satisfied with the experience. The Twin Towers were
beautifully portrayed in this movie and made one appreciate their
existence even more. I am proud to say that this is one of the best and
most satisfying movie experiences of this year.
<|_=00=_|>
Robert Zemeckis is a filmmaker that can make a masterpiece out of a
single subject as walking over a wire from point A to Point B, He is
the mastermind behind such films like Forrest Gump, Back to the future,
Cast away and flight, the last two films are IMO subjects filmed out of
a simple difficult thing but extraordinary as being a castaway or an
Airline pilot. 

The walk is one of the best films of the year, i do not think Levitt
will get any Oscar nomination or but the technicality of the film will
sure do, Zemeckis is one of Cinema's prodigy sons and a master of
camera-work and the film looks really amazing.
<|_=00=_|>
From the first scene Joseph Gordon-Levitt dons the all black persona
and talks about his passion, I'm hooked. This monologue heavy delivery
requires that caliber of performance from the lead, also reminds me of
Ewan McGregor on Big Fish. It takes the audience on a bizarre yet
fascinating adventure and makes us feel like a part of the character's
larger-than-life endeavor.

This is the story of Philippe Petit, a performer with the idea of
wire-walking across the World Trade Center towers. While it may sound
simple, the journey there is a captivating one. The presentation is
almost magical with circus act and flamboyant atmosphere, although
there are plenty of realistic details and intricate planning involved,
at times it almost feels like a funny heist movie.

Visual is breathtaking, the cinematography takes full advantages of the
vistas, let it be small village or big city. The way the scenes are
shot gives the movie a much more surreal ambiance. It's an enhanced
realism, and although it's not as refined, there's a spirit of Hugo
lingering here. It makes great use of 3D with timely panoramic shots
and even stuff-thrown-at-your-face antic, but for this movie I wouldn't
mind.

The same goes with its jazz influenced soundtracks, occasional slow
ballad or alternate take on popular songs. The production value just
oozes gorgeousness. All the technical aspects aside, the best
attraction is definitely Joseph Gordon-Levitt. He is utterly
remarkable, youthful and charming. This is the kind of acting prowess
that can captivate audience with sheer passion, it's a true homage to
the real life counterpart.

The Walk is nothing short of a breathtaking tale. Its charismatic
protagonist and masterful visual invite the audience to not only walk
alongside, but in a sense glide freely through such an inspiring story.
<|_=00=_|>
Robert Zemeckis' signature visual style and proclivity for bio-pics
seemed perfect for a movie like The Walk, a film that manages to boast
an interesting and entertaining story and dizzying cinematography. The
Walk is based on the story of the real-life high wire artist Philippe
Petit in 1974. Inspired by a circus he saw at a young age, Philippe
begins planning an incredibly ambitious -- and highly illegal -- show
in which he hangs a wire across the Twin Towers and walks across them.
A majority of the story is dedicated to Petit gathering accomplices to
help with the coup, practicing for the extreme conditions and planning
how they will rig the wire. The clever writing allows you to connect
with every character and understand why they're trying to attempt this
impossible dream. The last 45 minutes or so is where "the walk"
actually happens. The scenes of Petit and co rigging the wire are just
as tense as the wire-walking scenes, which are accented by some of the
best cinematography of the year. The cinematography is really the star
of the movie here. The shots panning down towards the ground make the
towers almost look endless, and it adds so much tension to the walking
scenes. The Walk is a stylish and entertaining look at one of the
biggest artistic feats of the last century, and you need to watch it in
IMAX 3D.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the best measures of a good movie based on a true story is the
tension that it manages to create in the audience. Whatever the main
conflict in the film's story, if audience members know the ending,
keeping their attention and interest and keeping them emotionally
invested in the story's outcome is a challenge for any filmmaker. A
movie with a great script in the hands of a great director with a great
cinematographer and editor and a great cast can meet such a challenge,
but when it happens, it's still an impressive accomplishment. Two
examples from recent cinematic history come to mind. In 2013, director
Paul Greengrass turned the well-known incident of Somali pirates
seizing the Maersk Alabama into the thrilling and suspenseful "Captain
Phillips". The film was nominated for the Best Picture Oscar and earned
acting nominations for star Tom Hanks and Somali actor Barkhad Abdi (in
his film debut), both of whom were also nominated for Screen Actors
Guild Awards, which both won. Earlier, in 2006, Greengrass was also the
director of "United 93", which chronicled the 9/11 terrorist attacks,
focusing on the flight which passengers attempted to retake from the
terrorists. As the film neared its tragic foregone conclusion, as a
moviegoer who knew a lot about the events of 9/11, I still found myself
hoping against hope that the story would end differently than it did in
real life. Creating movies like that take a tremendous amount of skill.
(Don't even get me started on the fact that Paul Greengrass has yet to
be win a Best Director Oscar.) 2015 has legendary director Robert
Zemeckis trying his hand at creating tension in a story with a
well-known ending in his docudrama "The Walk" (PG, 2:03).

Joseph Gordon-Levitt plays Philippe Petite, the French high-wire artist
who decided to string his wire between the Twin Towers of New York's
World Trade Center and walk it. But, of course, no one would attempt
something like that on a whim. Philippe became entranced with wire
walkers the first time he saw one in the circus back home in France. As
the boy grew into a young man, he taught himself to walk on ropes
between trees in his backyard, he got better and better and started
walking actual wires. He becomes very comfortable on his wire, but it's
"Papa Rudy" (Ben Kingsley), the local patriarch of a family of wire
walkers, who teaches Philippe what it means to walk the wire safely and
as performance art.

Philippe isn't interested in the scripted performances of the circus,
but is very interested in performing  and challenging himself to
bigger and better performances. After repeatedly clashing with his
father about his passion for walking the wire, Philippe leaves home and
moves to Paris. There he finds larger crowds to see his performances
and more places to hang his wire. He also finds a girlfriend in a
fellow street performer, a guitar player and singer named Annie
(Charlotte Le Bon). She encourages him in his wire walking, even when
he illegally strings and walks his wire between the two towers of Notre
Dame Cathedral. By this time, Philippe has started gathering a group of
co-conspirators (as he calls them), like photographer Jean-Louis
(Clément Sibony) and Jean-Louis' friend, Jean-François (César Domboy),
who wants to help, but is also afraid of heights. That's okay. Philippe
needs all the help he can get.

Philippe has decided to walk a wire between the two tallest buildings
in the world, a goal which he calls "the coup". After talking through
the details and working out some of the problems with Papa Rudy and the
co-conspirators, it's time for some on-site reconnaissance. Philippe,
Annie and their friends travel to New York, where Philippe dresses as a
construction worker to blend in with those still working on the
interior of the new World Trade Center. He also meets and recruits some
New Yorkers, including French expatriate Jean-Pierre (James Badge Dale)
and Barry Greenhouse (Steve Valentine), a fan of Philippe, who
witnessed the Notre Dame performance and happens to work in the Twin
Towers. This disparate group of people (plus some late additions), each
have a role to play in Philippe's grand plan.

"The Walk" isn't a thrill a minute, but it is thrilling. The story is
fascinating and the acting is strong, especially from Gordon-Levitt,
who learned French for the role and studied wire walking from Petite
himself. The script tells the story well, although the scenes in which
Gordon-Levitt narrates by talking to the camera are kind of hokey,
mostly because of how they're shot. The rest of the cinematography is
spectacular  especially the movie's climactic wire-walking scene which
turns out to be much more exciting than you'd expect from an incident
which is so well-documented. "A-"
<|_=00=_|>
This live action feature film directed by Robert Zemeckis is
phenomenal! There is nothing about it that I don't like. 

The Walk is set in 1974 and is about a high-wire artist named Philippe
Petit (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) who lives in Paris. He sees a photo in a
magazine about the construction of the Twin Towers in NYC and gets the
inspiration to walk a tight rope connecting the two buildings. This is
highly illegal and very dangerous. He meets up with a girl named Annie
Allix (Charlotte Le Bon) who falls in love with him and supports him
with his dream. He finds a mentor and father figure in Pappa Rudy (Ben
Kingsley), and five other accomplices who support him in this life or
death adventure. The Walk is a true story.

The Walk is a drama/thriller with a spice of romance and comedy.
Because it is based on a true story, it makes this movie even cooler
and much more intense! This is also an educational movie because I
didn't know much about high-wire artists until this movie. I learned
that there is a lot of science and math about how the wire is secured
to provide safety for the walker.

My favorite character is Philippe Petit (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) because
he is just flat-out amazing and super believable! My favorite scene is
when Philippe is facing his biggest dream of tightrope walking between
the twin towers. They were 140 feet apart and 110 stories high! This
scene is so realistic and exhilarating that my palms were sweaty and
other audience members were squirming in their seats. Philippe says
that high-wire artists are never supposed to look down when tightrope
walking. Does he heed his own advice?

The Walk has jaw-dropping special effects. The opening scenes in Paris
are completely in black and white except for an occasional pop of
color, which sets a nostalgic mood. The Twin Towers were already gone
when this movie was filmed, so how did they make this so realistic?
This part is truly fantastic! Watching it in 3D made it so lifelike and
totally added to the intensity of the viewing experience.

I recommend The Walk for ages 11 to 18 due to the suspense and mild
language. Hands down I give this movie a 5 out of 5 stars because it is
so amazing! The special effects can't be beat and the acting is super
strong! I loved this movie and it is definitely on my favorites list! 

Reviewed by Lainey A., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic.
<|_=00=_|>
What did you expect from the director of Back to the Future and Forrest
Gump? Robert Zameckis has another thoroughly enjoyable film, The Walk,
about Philippe Petit's (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) high-wire walk between
the World trade Center's twin towers in 1974. It's as romantic as Gump
and addictive as Future with the added interest of a biopic that is
true to its history.

From the first moment we meet Petit talking to us from the top of the
Statue of Liberty, and this story is about freedom if nothing else, we
know we are in the presence of a man who has followed his dream and
achieved it. To co-writers Zameckis and Christopher Browne must go
praise for giving the Frenchmen poetic English in small doses, just
enough to elevate the proceedings from nuts and bolts to heady
ambition.

Those 15 minutes on the wire are as suspenseful as possiblea mark of
the true auteur, who can make us worry for our hero even though we know
he will survive (he does narrate after all, and some audience will
remember Man on a Wire, the excellent doc from 2008). Because Zameckis
knows his special effects, I was mesmerized by the shots from atop the
towers to the street below. Although I don't like heights anyway, I had
to look down every time in wonder at the scope of the danger to Petit.

While the Walk is about this extraordinary man, it is also a romantic
eulogy to the towers, which arguably became favorites of New Yorkers
after Petit's stunt. The "forever" pass to the top of the towers he
receives as a reward from the city is painfully ironic considering
9/11. Because his feat was once in a lifetime, perhaps the passing of
the towers reminds us that nothing lasts "forever."
