
The Lobster is a surreal deadpan comedy about the strangeness of social
pressures and modern relationships. 

The setting is a bleak, tightly controlled hotel on the coast of
Ireland. David (Colin Farrell), a recently divorced Architect, is given
40 days to find a partner or else be transformed into an animal of his
choosing; in this case, a lobster. Sound strange? That's just the first
10 minutes. Guests of the hotel are subjected to routine trips to shoot
'loners' with tranquillisers, and awkward high-school dances to entice
singles to mingle. As David's days start running out, he decides to
feign common interest with a heartless woman in order to escape his
fate. But can he pull it off? 

Farrell really hits the mark with this role, displaying awkward
machismo and fragile humility in equal measure. His comedic timing is
matched only by his supporting cast that includes John C. Reilly,
Ashley Jensen, and Olivia Coleman. Rachel Weisz is also spot-on as the
short-sighted woman.

The Lobster has just about everything you'd want from a film. It's
unpredictable, it's offbeat, and it's laugh-out-loud funny. But it's
most impressive feature is the subtext - it manages to reflect how odd
our own modern-day social pressures are. How loneliness is feared, how
individuality loses out to the mainstream system, and how relationships
have to be deemed 'legitimate' by some higher order. There's plenty to
talk about with this film, and I'll definitely be seeing it again to
delve a little deeper....
<|_=00=_|>
There's no chance that you'll see a film as weird as The Lobster this
whole year. In what is effectively an indie art-house piece, you get a
completely insane and almost unfathomable world filled with more and
more absurdities everywhere you look. However, it's such an incredibly
unique and eye-catching film that it's still hugely engrossing and
surprisingly entertaining to watch.

The story centres around one man, played by Colin Farrell, as he
attempts to find a partner as a part of this bizarre system. The first
act revolves around his time in 'The Hotel', and is not only hugely
odd, but both dramatic and unnerving as well as hilarious to watch,
featuring some of the best dark comedy written in years.

The film takes its story as seriously as any drama, and you feel that
through the deeply disturbing atmosphere that emerges off the screen.
However, as the film is just so weird, it eases you into the oddness of
it all very impressively through the use of humour, something that more
pretentious art-house films fail to do, and are resultantly a lot
harder to really get into.

So, you'll definitely be laughing a lot, if not in a more disturbed
than hugely entertained manner, throughout the first act, and by the
end of it, you'll surely be as used as you can be to the incredibly
weird feel of this whole film.

Just to give you an idea of how unorthodox this film is, every scene is
full of awkward silences, the actors speak as if they're reading off of
cue cards with no emotion whatsoever, the imagery is very ugly and
unpleasant to look at right the way through, and the incredible slow
pace of it all means that the film feels like it goes on for about five
times as long as it actually does.

And yet, I still can't get around the fact that this is a brilliant
film. Mainly, it's the fact that it's just so unique and almost
shockingly bizarre, but it's just filled with so many captivating ideas
that it's impossible not to be fully drawn into this insane story.

So, the performances, the directing, the writing, and pretty much
everything is stunning, apart from one big issue that prevents this
from being a truly incredible film. Following the end of the first act,
the film does lose its way quite a lot, taking almost too big a leap
into an even stranger abyss than you ever imagined at the beginning,
and, with a little less humour in the latter stages, isn't as easy to
watch as the first act had been.

However, it does pick up again towards a terrifying and as bizarre as
ever conclusion, and that's why I'm going to give The Lobster a 9 out
of 10, but I must warn you that if you feel you can't cope with this
film for longer than the first twenty minutes, then it's not for you.
This is definitely a cult film for the ages, but won't be a big hit
with general audiences.
<|_=00=_|>
The film is dark humoured, satiric and mocking mirror of society
reflecting on human's obsession to fit in certain rules of society,
despite how ridiculous they are. We step on our primary feelings and
ignore our instincts just to play by the rules, to belong. And even it
was the clear theme of being obsessed with being in a couple, I see it
as a bigger reflection of society. After the main character runs into
the woods, where he finds rebels of coupling, it's clear that they are
as extreme as the hotel people. It looks like it's shown that people
have to belong to survive, but options are limited and you have to
obey, pretend or risk to be destroyed. Various examples of
dysfunctional relationships are shown in the film, which looks so
familiar  pretending to have something in common, pretending that you
understand that you are the same. Desperation, rejection, cruelty in
the relationships  we have seen and know it all, but director found
the way to remind it with a lighter tone, with the possibility to laugh
at ourselves and society. All the characters acted and talked in the
same hyper-polite manner  that's what we do, so often we dance around
difficult and extreme situations with our repressed feelings. And
despite how similar everyone talked, with the same tone and politeness,
we can see through that and find individuality of the characters, and
it shows that we are more than just rules, etiquette  The obsession to
have something in common with you partner reached the peek at the end.
It looked like even David and blind women are still in love, but a
realisation that in society norms they don't have anything real in
common drives to an extreme decision. It shows that we sacrifice so
much if we love someone different, and all just to be more acceptable
in the society, but at the end society doesn't care, so do we just have
to be braver? This film makes more think than feel. The audience who is
used to relate to the characters might find it difficult, as even the
main character is not very lovable, he is a week and very human in
other words. It's not a 'feel good' film but not miserablism, it's
smart and innovative reminder
<|_=00=_|>
"The Lobster" takes the tropes and expectations of modern-day
relationships and satirises them almost out of existence. The farcical
"Hotel" aims to partner 'loner' humans with each other (based on 1
characteristic) in a stress-inducing timeframe of 45 days, often
resulting in deception and the suppression of true feelings in order to
garner a relationship as a means of escape. The other side of the coin
is the outcast tribe living a meagre existence in the woods, where even
flirting is punished with physical mutilation. The cold mechanical
delivery of every single character's lines emphasises the absurdity of
the situation, and bizarrely makes the jokes even funnier. Not since
Richard Ayoade's "The Double" has cripplingly awkward humour been so
effective. This film has a lot to say about the fickle nature of
relationships, set against the background of a dystopian society. The
cinematography is as flat as the actors' delivery; this contributes to
the emotionally-stunted, often silent world that the characters
inhabit. The ending is beautifully ambiguous and surprisingly tense for
such an understated scene. A score which fluctuates from terse, rough
string melodies to Italian opera heightens the sense of weird-art-film
which pervades "The Lobster": definitely a film which requires full
attention, reflection, and a mind open to arty weirdness, "The Lobster"
is a remarkable oddity.
<|_=00=_|>
I am obviously going against the trend here, so be it. I found the
movie pretentious, ill balanced and with none of the nuances other more
accomplished directors manage to reveal with their use of absurdism and
counterpoint.

First, if the movie had been short, maybe it would have been bearable,
maybe, as it stands, its length goes to show, at least for me, that
there was not a compass that guided the director, this was a rudderless
attempt at social commentary. I don't care if Mr Lanthimos is
considered the plus ultra of directors, this is bad.

The movie tries to match absurdism with social commentary, but fails to
create a world in which A) the absurd seems plausible and B) the
plausible seems absurd. The deadpan, flat delivery of the lines loses
all power after the first 30 minutes of the 1h 58m this thing goes on
for and the humour, again, always spurred on by the absurdity of the
moment/comment/observation, fails to find me (as it failed to find the
funny bone of most people in a packed, large movie theatre in London,
in fact, first movie I've gone to see in ages where people began to
leave the cinema half-way, which I longingly followed with my eyes
wishing it was me).

The cinematography is fine, nothing out of the ordinary, but Lanthimos
fails to use it to punctuate the absurd moments (something Wes Anderson
does very well, as does Paolo Sorrentino) nor is the dramatism enhanced
by precise camera work (Hitchcock, Fellini, Truffaut). The dialogue,
even in its supposed absurdist nature, is poor, fails to weave across
and is uneven. While the leads do a super job, the characters are flat
and I don't care for them or what happens to them, which is always a
bad sign for me.

There are moments when this thing is good, like the hotel managers
singing a duet, but they do not translate across the whole story,
mainly because very quickly we leave the only part where there are
interesting characters and spend the rest of the movie in the forest. 

I found the movie:

-Too long -Pretentious without the grace to be so -flat -Uninspiring
-did I say too long? -A convoluted way to tell a story that could have
been told with the same intent in less time, with more observant,
astute dialogue and far better crafted cinematography -A depressing
experience -Not funny, by miles

Having just seen for the first time 'The Great Beauty' followed by 'The
Royal Tenenbaums' I realized now what The 'Lobster' could have been but
did not have the artistic currency to do. The social commentary is
there, no doubt, I just did not like how it was executed.

Maybe I am just a heathen with no taste...but of course, these are my
impressions, I know others who truly loved it, and that is good too.
<|_=00=_|>
Weird, whacky & wicked but equally dull, sterile & vapid, The Lobster
is a strange beast that actually begins quite well but tumbles down the
road after the halfway mark to conclude on a rather uninteresting note.
The concept is no doubt intriguing and it takes its time to make us
familiar to the society inhabiting its tale but all of it doesn't
amount to much in the end & it fails to leave any lasting impression.

Set in a dystopian future, The Lobster presents a world in which single
people are arrested & taken to a hotel where they are obliged to find a
matching partner within 45 days or they are transformed into animals &
released into the woods. The plot follows David who arrives at the
hotel for the same reason but his endeavours of finding a mate before
his time is over ends far more tragically than he expected.

Co-written & directed by Yorgos Lanthimos, The Lobster marks his
English-language debut and the idea & inspiration behind it is both
clever & admirable. The sequences taking place in the hotel are nicely
carried out but its second half lacks the same level of creativity
that's present in the first half. The excitement goes missing once the
protagonist leaves the hotel and from there on, it just limps
throughout its remaining runtime.

The hotel is neatly maintained but it also has a creepy vibe about it.
Camera movements are fluid, colour hues wonderfully compliment its
overcast ambiance and lighting seems natural for the most part. Editing
allows the plot to unfold at an unhurried pace but the whole story
feels twice as long because of that, with no idea of where it's headed.
Last, the background score is just as odd as the story's content and is
intermittently utilised.

Coming to the performances, The Lobster features a fine cast in Colin
Farrell, Rachel Weisz, Léa Seydoux, Ben Whishaw & John C. Reilly and
most of them are simply bland & lifeless in their respective roles. It
can be argued that the spiritless rendition of these scripted people
was deliberate but it doesn't really help in enriching the experience,
at all. The deadpan wit is occasionally amusing but it's also too easy
to get frustrated by whatever is happening.

On an overall scale, The Lobster is an uncanny mix of bizarre ideas
that, in its effort to play with multiple things at once, may end up
drifting many of its viewers. While I found nothing lovable about it,
its parody of the society that gives way too much credit to
companionship, in addition to the dig it takes at those match-making
algorithms which rely on similar traits & likeness factor is one aspect
I liked but in all seriousness, The Lobster is too mediocre to be of
any significance.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was in my opinion pure and simple pointless. Why make it?
There is no point. It only makes you feel seek and confused on why in a
near future everyone should be a couple. Even the main idea has no
sense. Some say dark comedy. Comedy? No way, just a deeply disturbing
on all levels and violent senseless movie. And sorry but Collin Farrell
is not an actor that should be use in a movie where the character is
trying to show any kind of emotion but only in movies where he can play
the pretty boy. Here he walks with the same expression on his face no
matter what happens in the scene. No real emotion from his stone face.
The end of the movie was unnecessarily disturbing like the rest.He was
not believable as the man who can make such a sacrifice for the women
he's in love with. I couldn't feel any kind of love between the main
characters. Sorry, but I deeply disliked this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Lobster" is the first English language film directed by Yorgos
Lanthimos ("Dogtooth"), and stars Colin Farrell as David, a man who is
recently separated from his wife and must now lodge at a government run
hotel in a near future Britain where he must find a suitable partner in
forty-five days, otherwise he will be turned into an animal of his
choosing.

This is a very strange movie, the presentation is very serious and
oppressive (using the Mozart pieces repeatedly over slow motion motion
montages and Rachel Weisz narrating the story very sternly), but at the
same time the delivery of the lines and the odd way each character acts
made me laugh at the ludicrousness of it all. It's all done in such a
deadpan manner and the supporting cast made up John C. Riley and
several British television comedians (Olivia Colman, Ashley Jensen,
Ewen MacIntosh) help propel the comedy.

There's plenty of unique ideas about relationships (people coming
together because they have something trivial in common, like nose
bleeds; being assigned a child to stop newlywed couples arguing, etc.).
The love story between Farrell and Weisz drives the second part of the
film, showing the two at odds against the world, trying to find a place
for themselves in a world with conflicting ideologies (she's from a
group of loners who hide out in the forest, their leader has a strict
policy on romantic relationships and is just as oppressive as the
government they're fighting against).

"The Lobster" is a unique movie that is worth watching if you enjoy
quirky comedies or just something different.
<|_=00=_|>
This is probably the worst movie I 've seen for years.I suppose I
should support the film since I am Greek and Lanthimos is Greek too,
but I'm afraid I 'm tired of this pretentious and meaningless cinema we
are producing that gets its foreign distribution and recognition now.I
thought that Dogtooth was a terrible movie too, but I was hoping that
something might have changed with this one, especially as Colin
Farrel-whom I like very much-was the lead actor;unfortunately, this is
a dreadful movie, full of stupid dialogs, pretentious and pointless,
stupid, and it asks to be taken for surreal or weird but Lanthimos is
neither Bunuel nor Lynch.It even begs to be taken seriously as a
symbolic comment on relations, which makes it seem even sillier. There
are and there were great directors in Greece(Nikos Panagiotopoulos,
Vasilis Vafeas and, most of all, Stavros Tornes, to name a few) but
Lanthimos is not one of them ;he is a fake and I was angry I had to
watch this trash of a movie. I'm still angry, so I wrote this review.
<|_=00=_|>
No consistent theme to follow = no story at all. Btw this is my first
review and the only reason I'm doing this is because the move was
seriously that bad! Is it motivated by animal rights activism? Do they
become animals as a way of making us humans more caring for other
non-humans? (i.e. place a 'personal' or 'species' bias into the mix to
create empathy) ... No ... Well, maybe for a minute ... Is it motivated
by psychopathy ... well, maybe for a few more minutes ... does make you
wonder whether the writer has some serious relationship issues! ...
Smiles are extremely rare ... All characters have serious issues
resulting from relationship problems it would seem - i.e. none are
emotionally open in relating to one another (only emotions that
characters express in the whole movie are negative: jealousy, anger,
insecurity ... Nothing adds up - which is not an insecure need of the
modern age as opposed to the post-modern one ... but a purely healthy
way to make any sense of experience at all!!!!!!!!!!!! Nothing about
this movie made sense for more than a short while ... Totally
unpredictable, i.e. it has NO STORY to FOLLOW but is a random scene of
stuff that never adds up and leaves you wondering whether the maker
seriously thinks they can actually justify its existence on the basis
of some lame postmodern perspective that warrants anything and
everything as equally cool!!! TOTAL GARBAGE!!!!!
