
The worst of the Divergent series to date, in Allegiant we finally see
what lies beyond the walls which encircle Chicago. Answer: 120 minutes
of utter tedium. We follow our protagonists- doe-eyed Tris and
perpetually dull Four- through the wastelands and into the hands of
sinisterly-titled Bureau of Genetic Welfare, led by Jeff Daniels'
character David.

What follows is multiple occasions of Tris being called up to David's
office for meetings- like an episode of The Apprentice- but instead of
getting fired she exchanges some of the dullest exposition dialogue
heard in the cinema so far this year. The set of David's office is so
over-designed and green-screened to the point that it just became a
distraction.

There are large swathes of the film's running time where nothing seems
to happen, no surprise considering this is the first of two parts of
what is one book. The decision to split the final novel into two is for
reasons which can really only be described as monetary, a gamble which
appears not to have paid off judging by the box office takings. Miles
Teller's character attempts to inject some comic relief into the
proceedings but even his jokes fall flat. An absolutely turgid affair.
<|_=00=_|>
The age of the young adult franchises are upon us now more than ever
with yet another entry in the 'Divergent' series being released. Maybe
it's just me, but I'm growing tired of weak films filled with same old
clichés and unoriginal story lines based around the genre of 'young
adult sci-fi'. Sure, a lot of people can say the same thing about the
overabundance of superhero films, but there's a clear difference in
quality. But the bottom line is that I'm just not the audience for
these films.

Allegiant directly follows the events from Insurgent after the demise
of Kate Winslet's Jeanine character. Naomi Watts reprises her role as
Evelyn and pretty much follows the same unfortunate path that Jeanine
did as leader of the dystopian Chicago. Four and Tris, played by
Shailene Woodley, lead a small group of survivors into the outside
world which was teased at the end of the last film. From there, every
cliché you can possibly think of, follows. The characters who you think
will die, die. The people who you think will be good or bad, end up
being good or bad. There is nothing surprising or noteworthy about the
film's plot.

The positives do however come from some of the performances. Theo James
continues to be a pleasant surprise and does as much as he can with a
weak script. He has a definite future in the film business. Woodley is
solid as she usually is and so is Jeff Daniels and Naomi Watts. The
problem is that the film around them is average at best. The pacing is
painfully slow at times and nothing really happens until the final 20
minutes. Of course, it's set up for an unnecessary and unplanned 4th
film purely for the reasons of making money, because there could have
easily been an ending here. Overall, a weak script and horrible green
screen moments end up making a disappointing third entry in the series.

+Music

+Performances from James and others

-Green screen moments

-Pacing

-Nothing original and full of clichés

4.8/10
<|_=00=_|>
OK so the first movie ("Divergent"), despite what the people who read
the books say, was basically another soap opera - slash - action movie
directed at what I am guessing teen audience. Just like Mockingjay,
just like Maze Runner. But despite the absolute soap overload in some
parts at least the plots were somewhat original though they all had
that tell-tale post-apocalyptic-dystopic- 1984ish plot commonality, but
all of them kinda "did okay" at least in each own way and at least
managed to have SOME major and original plot differences that made them
over all okay and entertaining to watch.

But this movie... oh boy. Flying "cars", even more conspiracy nonsense,
small flying discs that create placenta (or was it "plasma"? lol)
bubbles around people, small spheres that create a
forcefield/illusion/barrier/something, more evil manipulative
characters that make no sense, new evil characters, new absurdities of
human behavior.... and genetic manipulation? Genetic projects? Memory
wiping gas-serum-something? Or how about this: poisonous wasteland
covered in radioactive puddles and 100% scorched earth and not a single
vegetable left alive... but guess what, people live there, in tents and
stuff. Probably doing pow-wows to entertain each other or some other
nonsense.

I am at a loss. The plot of the movie Vs the actors and the way it was
filmed is like... like... eating a pancake, a pretty good one, but
there's just one pancake and the rest is a bucket of cream, chocolate,
syrup, candy canes, cake sprinkles and whatever else dumped on it. OK
another analogy: imagine if a hyperactive 6 year old had to write the
plot of all Star Wars movies. Sure there would be action by the
boatloads, but the plot would make absolutely no sense. A total
overdose of hyped up nonsense, and this is exactly what this movie is.
Literally 30 mins into the movie the plot just went supersonic and went
in one eye and out the other. Absolute garbage that made no sense at
all. Plus the plot now has like 100 different cliffhangers to hang on
to, so they'll be milking this movie until the next coming of Christ or
until the audiences are just numbed by the continuous river of nonsense
that this movie is.

Oh and last thing - IMDb mods, better wake up and do your job. Some of
the reviews here are so flat, so like a rant a used car salesman would
make that they are obviously paid/fake and are not honest... like not
at all.
<|_=00=_|>
I will not blame anyone who has given up hope with this franchise and
passed on checking out this. I went because I am Sheilene Woodley's
number one fan and supporter (check my reviews of her films for proof
on that), so anything she does I will see, included this franchise
which for me, in the first two entries, proved to be a mix of some few
good elements, Woodley's performance being center on that, with some
bad filmaking overall and a story that was always so bad it made me
laugh.

That element is partially back, once again through the entirety of the
duration of the film almost nothing makes sense. The story is just so
bol*ocks I am inclined to laugh at it. Yet this time around I didn't
even manage to do that. It just makes no sense whatsoever, nothing that
is going on on screen is ever motivated, but even worse, it doesn't fit
with the other two films and just emerges as an absolute mess.

Even Shailene Woodley who in the past managed to elevate the non sense
that was going around her, with the help of Theo James' charisma, can't
do anything with this material. She isn't bad in anyway, it would be
impossible for her, but no one on screen manages to make heads or toes
of their character, simply because their isn't anything to be
understood, it is just a screenplay that mixes random exposition to
ever changing motivations because the story requires it. Even the
cinematography, for the most part, is as dull as it can be: basic
coverage of dialogue scenes and where it tries to do something new like
some good tracking shots it fails miserably because they look terrible.

What remains good is the imagery that the series has offered
throughout, don't misunderstand me: for the major part the CGI is
mediocre and touches bad in many points, but the art concepts and the
visual ideas still work very well and provide that minimum flare that
mixed to some laughing at the story and Miles Teller not giving a sh*t
for the third time, which I must admit is the best part of the film,
manages to get you through the film indifferently.

I wouldn't recommend this to anyone unless you are a true fan of the
series, the film in itself is boring and uninspired with yet another
laughable ending.
<|_=00=_|>
The first two installments in this series were if nothing else
enjoyable. The first one, in fact, was well acted and directed, with a
satisfying plot and held its own. The second which did have a wayward
plot and a messy script was still salvaged by the acting and the
cgi-fuelled set pieces which were cool to look at. But this movie fails
in every possible aspect. 

Firstly, let's consider the acting, Shailene Woodley who was the most
stellar aspect of the previous movies, is extremely dull and
lacklustre. She seemed completely disinterested throughout the movie.
The script didn't require her to do anything more than recite a handful
of lines but she did engage the screen only periodically. Her character
who is shown to be strong and defiant previously, turns into this mute
easily-manipulated by stander who does very little in this installment.
Theo James as Four, however, I felt performed decently well with what
he was given, even if he still grumbles most of his lines. Jeff Daniels
and Naomi Watts arguably manage to fit the bill of their generic and
plain characters. 

The CGI, which has been a plus point of this series so far, is
squandered in this one, with the surrounding green scene being
glaringly visible in several scenes. From a visual concept and set
piece point of view, something that Insurgent did manage to execute
well, this one once again falls short. With the acting already poor, we
do not even have some eye candy visuals to enjoy. 

Now, the plot. Convoluted and poorly unraveled. Nothing seems to make
sense. Character motivations are inconsistent with previous
installments and seem to change with the requirement of the script.
Whatever exposition is provided is achingly plain and vague spurring
endless questions about a variety of plot points, so much so that they
threaten to put whatever sense the preceding movies made in much
jeopardy. 

SPOILERS AHEAD- Here are some questions and oddities with the regard to
both certain nagging minutia and also larger plot points which
completely spoil the overall experience of the movie. The wall climbing
scene early on in the movie, which while having been the best actions
sequence, was still annoying. Tris is running from the wall to the
generator which is powering the fence/wall, three vehicles full of men
are shooting at her but their aim as required, is pathetic. Four, who
unlike Tris, isn't even running, is also untouched. Soon after, atop
the wall, the group decides to begin celebrating their victory
prematurely with only Tori returning fire and staying rooted in the
gravity of the moment, and as inevitable she gets shot and dies. Why?
Why would these characters behave SO very oblivious to the danger at
hand. Having been 'rescued' by the Bureau of Genetic Welfare, they're
shown the poorly rendered video clip explaining 200 hundred years worth
of history. So, genetic mutation in humans was introduced and people
were divided on this and then they fought and destroyed most of the
world? Some select pure individuals formed the Bureau and the rest
died/or were placed in the Chicago experiment to gauge if they were
'curable'? For 200 years? They ran a massive experiment to find if a
pure human was possible from among the 'damaged' individuals? From what
I see, the life that the damaged lived inside the wall was a much more
civilized and peaceful society until Tris wreaked havoc in the first
movie, while outside the wall, people seem to be living in a wasteland.
So I'm supposed to understand that the 'pure' people set up a massive
civilized city for the 'damaged' while themselves living in a barren
landscape fighting people at the fringe??? Even the Providence was a
tiny area of fairly futuristic looking infrastructure. It is later
revealed that David wants funding for his project. Funding? Funding
for? For reinstating the factions by wiping the minds of the people of
the city? But he did just that without having received funding from the
providence, didn't he?? So was it funding for renovation of his own
floating castle home at the Bureau? And back in Chicago, Joana sees
that Evelyn is killing people that worked for Jeanine, so she, the Wise
one, decides it is time to divide whatever people are left, in half and
have them fight each other to the death?? And then that gas. That gas
which is supposed to be inhaled but is so heavy that it harmlessly
settles down at feet level, giving ample time for the warring people to
run up a flight of stairs. Evelyn gets shot by Peter in the back/leg,
but clearly doesn't seem to have any injury when shown from the back.
Tris shooting the ventilation system through the wall absolutely the
weakest resolution to the conflict. And magically, the gas recedes
quickly and all those people who had previously been fighting each
other to the death, come out of the buildings all smiles and happy,
some even smiling and pointing at God knows what. So absurd. 

Overall a very disappointing and frustrating mess that reeks of
ignorance on the part of the filmmakers who seem to have concluded that
they can string up any random events in a dystopian setting amidst a
bunch of teenagers aided by mediocre visual effects and some set
pieces. Hopefully, with the change of director, the final movie will be
better.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Divergent Series: Allegiant" is another part of this too long and
boring franchise. The saga of Tris and Four and their friends is
repetitive and predictable, using clichés and special effects. The
screenplay is poor and stupid. For example, David is capable to close
doors and remotely controls the city; why does he need someone to
release the gas in Chicago? The worst is that the story does not end
and there will be another sequel to gross more money for the producers.
My vote is four.

Title (Brazil): "A Série Divergente: Convergente" ("The Divergent
Series: convergent")
<|_=00=_|>
I read all of the books because of how curious I was to see if the
movies matched up. What I really enjoy in an adaptation movie is how it
brings a story to life; Allegiant takes the story which was quite
interesting, and throws the story line in pieces. The suspense and
anticipation that I experienced with the previous two films and stories
is not the same as with Allegiant. Besides the story line taking a
tangent from its original story, the revised story line is bland and
predictable. I do not have high expectations for the sequel if they
continue to deviate from the original story so drastically. I really
hope that I will be proved wrong, but I am thoroughly disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
So... Without spoiling the book OR this movie; the movie sucked, the
book did not. There is way, way more sci-fi then necessary, and BAD
sci-fi that is! It's really poorly done, bad CGI and stuff. And where
the story from the books was at times confusing, this was downright
dumb and mad no sense. The biggest book-moments were cut out, probably
to make room for the bad CGI... I kind of expected it to be bad, 'cause
the 2nd one wasn't that good either. It also seems the actors get less
and less convincing with each movie. Contrary to the Hunger Games (that
also differed from the books somewhat, but functional imho), these
don't live up to the books at all. If you read them, don't watch the
movies. If you've watched the movies but started liking them less and
less, read the books instead! They're worth it!
<|_=00=_|>
I had to go watch this movie series just to justify the mixed ratings I
read.

Well, I have to say, In My Opinion, there was more going on in this
movie that was unrealistic and slow than favorable / enjoyable moments.

So, personally, I won't hold fire against the comments that rated this
movie below a 7. I actually would say they are right on target.

I have to say movie quality has certainly went down over the last 6
yrs. I'm beginning to believe many directors and movie industries are
expecting movie goers will watch anything with engaging previews to
suck us in and torture us with the rest of the movie being BAD.

I am a sci-fi fantasy type movie lover, loving the tech and all that
stuff, however, there is a threshold as to what I enjoy watching when
it comes to this type of movie genre and this movie just don't quite
get there for me. Divergent followers or not, this movie fails for the
length of time and plot it delivers to be enjoyable.

As stated before, I don't believe in rating movies terribly low, so I
give this movie series a generous 6 without going into more details.

Thanks
<|_=00=_|>
For this one, I will not need many words to write a review. This one is
plainly stupid. Unnatural human behavior, unnatural dialogues, plot
filled with holes like a good Dutch cheese! Just one example: Director
controls shutting of doors in an underground technical tunnels of the
distant city, yet he needs to infiltrate a city with a person to talk
one of the leaders into pushing a button to get a gas flowing into the
city! Would be a good idea to have that function also on a remote
control, wouldn't it? Or if everyone will forget everything, why not
fly a freaking squadron into the city and have this button pushed? A
separate word of praise to movie industry censors! Killing where blood
is seen  R rated and kids can't watch it. Killing when no blood is
seen  kids are safe to watch. How could one make it all be more
ridiculous? The guys gets a headshot from 1 inch distance, falls dead,
but no drop of blood to be seen anywhere Come on guys, someone needs
to get real.
