
Maybe not as prominently remembered as he once was, Jesse Owens, was
one of those men in history who was able to overcome the many barriers
in his life to exemplify greatness. Not only as an athlete, but as a
human being.

"RACE" is the story of Jesse Owens(Stephan James) from 1933 through
1936. James Cleveland Owens was born in Alabama and at age 9 moved with
his family to Cleveland, Ohio. It was in Cleveland where one of his
teachers, unable to understand his thick southern accent, thought he
was saying his name was Jesse when in fact he had been saying JC. This
mistake led to JC being known as Jesse for the rest of his life.

A prominent high school track athlete, Jesse entered The Ohio State
University in 1933 and began his NCAA track career under the tutelage
of legendary track coach Larry Snyder(Jason Sudeikis). Snyder
recognized greatness in Jesse the first time he watched him run and let
Jesse know that he would be able to compete and win in the 1936 Olympic
Games.

The movie moves from Jesse's life and troubles to Nazi Germany and back
again. The story of The Amateur Athletic Union(AAU) and the American
Olympic Committee(AOC), struggling with the decision to attend or
boycott the games, runs parallel to Jesse's trials, tribulations and
his ultimate success.

When the AAU and AOC make the decision to attend the games, the NAACP
asks Jesse to refuse to enter. Due to the atrocities being committed
against the Jewish population in Germany and the open hatred the Nazis
expressed toward other races as well, the NAACP felt Jesse's refusal to
attend the games would make a strong statement. The decision to attend
the games by Owens turned out to be a much more powerful statement than
could ever have been imagined. As the scene unfolded and the
representative of the NAACP told Jesse what a strong statement his
boycott would make, I was hoping the writer's would have had Jesse
respond by saying, "It will be much more meaningful for me to attend
the games and come home with the Gold"  or something along that line.

Jesse Owens, to me, has always been one of the larger than life
individuals that only come along every so often. The film not only
celebrates Jesse Owens' accomplishments, it also emphasizes the wrongs
to which people of color had to endure in the United States. Even at a
dinner held in Mr. Owens' honor, Jesse and his wife were asked to enter
the hotel through the service entrance. The filmmaker's parallel
stories of Jesse and Nazi Germany, as they prepare for the games,
brings to the forefront the hypocrisy of our American Ideals and what
was really happening to many of our citizens. "RACE" is a title that
fits well because it not only speaks to Jesse's prominence on the
track, but to the relationship between the citizens of this planet.

The story is a worthwhile one. Historical figures like Jesse Owens need
to be kept in our memory. However, as great as Jesse Owens was, this
was not a great film. At 134 minutes, I felt it was a tad too long. I
also felt it dragged somewhat at various times. Although the parallel
story of what was happening in Europe at this time in our history is
important, I feel to much time was spent on that story and not enough
on Mr. Owens.

I recommend seeing this film although I feel the matinée price would be
the best option.
<|_=00=_|>
'Race' is an overall entertaining movie hampered by some fairly
predictable flaws. It features pretty standard sports movie clichés,
e.g., hard-ass coach with heart of gold, rival who becomes best friend,
etc. The personal (melo)drama seems pretty mundane, and, as to be
expected in historical dramas, certain liberties are taken with the
facts for dramatic purposes. But there is interesting dramatic tension
in the scenes in which the US Olympics commission debates boycotting
the '36 games, and in Owens' personal struggle over whether to compete
in the face of certain factions of the black community entreating him
not to. The actual scenes of competition are presented in an exciting
fashion. My favorite scene captures Owens' P.O.V. as he enters Berlin
Stadium at the height of pre-War Nazi pageantry, Hindenburg flying
overhead, Hitler waving in the stands to a thunderous chorus of "Sieg
Heils." It must have been overwhelming. Carice van Houten plays Leni
Refienstahl as a sympathetic character, defying Goebbel's orders to
tell the true story of the 1936 Olympics, and Stephan James as Owens
provides an enjoyable leading performance.
<|_=00=_|>
Racial discrimination both at home and in Germany are in the forefront
of this movie so the races become a battle of good vs evil. The
victories are that much more moving because of that. Lots of pointed
references to how discrimination was in the U.S. before and after the
Olympics.

The supporting cast are good. Jeremy Irons is effective as the
questionable Avery Brundage who does some good by pushing for
participation over boycott but also possibly being bought by the
Germans. Carice Van Houten plays the infamous Leni. Strangely, instead
of being shown as a Nazi propogandist, she is shown as a hero here
pushing for including Jesse in her film. The actor who plays Goebbels
is totally wrong for him. Google the real one. Stephan James as Jesse
Owens doesn't overact and keeps his performance dignified. Jason
Sudekis is good in a non comedic role as the coach.

Effecive use of effects to recreate the stadium and crowds.

A fascinating and well made movie
<|_=00=_|>
They say those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it. I
guess this motto is the reason Hollywood continues to make historical
figure movies at least once a year. This weekend, the life of track
legend Jesse Owens comes to the silver screen in the movie entitled
Race. While the Oscars may eat up these kinds of movies, they sometimes
get overcredited with being the best movie over the year. So once more
I dive into my local theater to review the latest in cinematic
productions. Let's get to it then. 

When it comes to historical biographies such as Race, you look for a
portrayal that elicits pride, passion, and other emotions that will
inspire the audience. And once more Hollywood manages to bring all of
that to bear with cinematic magic. Race is packed with well edited
sequences that show the struggles Owens faced in his day as he trained
to become the champion. The racial fervor of the times is brought in
full force with extras intensely screaming with furious scowls painting
their faces. Captains and financers of the Nazi regime are even more
chilling, as they radiated the menacing energy we've come to know from
history, adding suspense to the film. The emotion it brings will truly
unnerve some people, and I'm sure some group will get offended by the
portrayal of some Race in this movie (despite the inspirational theme
in this movie).

But the negativity is only one side of the coin, and Race does an even
better job with their more lighthearted moments. The training sessions
are just the ice breaker to preaching the morals of hard work and
determination. Once at the meets, things get turned up a notch with
blaring music and beautiful shots raise your emotions to new heights.
With each shot of the gun, each stride across the track, I felt roped
into Owens world. And the finale well lets just say the morals they
preach would be grand for today's society could stand to learn from. Of
course being based on actual events, this suspense can be missing if
you know Owens accomplishments already, which is unfortunate in these
types of movies. 

Yet even the best editor can only do so much and we switch our focus to
the actors now. Stephan James gets two thumbs up from this reviewer for
his portrayal of Owens. He was able to capture the work ethic of Jesse,
delivering powerful lines to motivate the audience, but not to cross
the line into cheesiness and overdramatic presentation. In addition he
adds a nice comedic edge that balances his character out into a new
light. Jason Sudeikis also did his role justice playing Larry Snyder,
the coach of our Olympian. Rarely do you see Sudeikis in a serious
role, so it was refreshing to see him tackle this part. He has
emotional fervor, bringing fire to the screen as he defends his morals
and encourages his athletes to give it his all. Sure the screaming
rants were a little over done, but all in all it worked for me.
However, don't think his comedy has been drained away, Sudeikis still
brings his comedic timing to the picnic and reigned his ridiculousness
in for this film. These two have great chemistry and together really
sold the story. 

Yet with all the good I've mentioned, we should probably talk about
some of the limitations to this film. The first is of course the
predictability of this story. YES I know when it comes to historical
biographies you have only so much to work with, but it still slightly
takes away from the suspense and mystery. A second limitation was the
lack of seeing his relationship with his teammates that could have led
to some interesting substories and character building. Yes we did see
some of this near the end, and it was probably more important to
portray the pressure placed on his shoulders, but still I would have
liked to see a little more. As such there were a few moments that could
have been left out of the movie to either make the run time shorter or
make room for some other plot lines. Outside of that though, it is
quite a fun and entertaining film. 

Overall, Race does it job to illustrate the past and inspire you to
accomplish your dreams. The phenomenal editing and great casting truly
preach the morals and lessons that history has to offer us. Yet it is a
simplistic movie that lacks a lot of special effects are uniqueness to
require a theater visit. As for the accuracy of this film, I can't say
as I need to revisit his biography at some point. Historical fanatics
are going to enjoy this the most, but those who appreciate good acting
should check this one out. My one hope is that this movie doesn't add
further fuel to the fire and cause another fight on social media or
some other avenue. 

My scores for this film are:

Biography/Drama/Sport: 7.5-.8.0 Movie Overall: 7.0
<|_=00=_|>
"A man has to present an image to the world." Jesse Owens (James) is a
college track star. His coach Larry Snyder (Sudeikis) pushes him to be
the best he can be. Jesse pushes himself on and off the track to be the
best person and athlete he can be. Everything is going as he wants, he
becomes a record breaking collegiate champion with his Olympic dream in
his sights. The only thing stopping him is his conscience. With Olympic
gold in his grasp Jesse must decide if he is willing to compete in
Germany, as an African-American, with Hitler watching. This movie is in
my wheelhouse. Not only is this a sports movie but its a true story as
well. I knew the basics of the Owens story, but this movie goes deeper
into the pressure put on him from both sides of the Nazi debate. Even
knowing how the movie will turn out the drama was gripping enough to
keep me interested and wondering how he got to where he was at.
Sudeikis actually does a really good job in a non comedic role and is
almost the perfect choice for the coach. This is a movie I cannot say
enough about. I highly recommend this, and the use of the n-word is
limited so this is OK for family viewing as well. Overall, a sports
movie that once again shows the triumph of the human spirit and how
everyone is equal when the gun goes off. I give this an A-.
<|_=00=_|>
The best thing about this movie is the performance of the star, Stephan
James. He is very good as Jesse Owens.

The biggest problem with this movie is the length, 134 minutes. It is
WAY too long for what it has to offer. As one of the other reviewers on
here says, the director tried to put far too much material into it. The
first hour or so, before we get to Berlin, plays like a so-so
made-for-TV movie and should have been cut drastically. Once we get to
Berlin, things get much better, but even then, it could have used
cutting. We spend a lot of time with Leni Riefenstahl, for example, but
why? We never see what she ends up doing with her Owens footage in
*Olympia*, her documentary of the 1936 Olympics.

That leaves the other problem, the script. Too often it isn't very
dramatic. (Contrast it with *42*.) Yes, some of the events in the
Olympics are very moving, but that's largely because of the events
themselves, not because of the way they are presented. A good script
doesn't just repeat historical events, it puts them together in a way
that makes them effective, leaving out what isn't effective, and
presents them in powerful language that makes them stick in the memory.
This script doesn't do that.

If it's true that this is the first feature-length film about Owens,
then it's good to have it. There isn't anything here that will harm his
reputation.

But neither, alas, is there a movie here that will fix it indelibly in
the minds of viewers. That movie remains to be made, and, I hope, will
start with a much better, much shorter script.

---------------------

Since writing the above, I've read Jeremy Schaap's book *Triumph: The
Untold Story of Jesse Owens and Hitler's Olympics*. (It's not a very
good book, I'm sorry to report. A lot of personal opinion, often not
enough documentation. For a better, if much shorter, account of Owens
in Berlin, see Ch. 6 of William J. Baker's *Jessie Owens: An American
Life*) It would seem that this movie hews fairly closely to the
historical truth, for whatever that's worth. (This is a feature film,
after all, and not a documentary.) Sometimes it "fills in the gaps,"
perhaps most notably with its explanations of why Avery Brundage did
what he did and why Owens was put on the 4 x 100 relay team to the
exclusion of one of the Jewish runners who had practiced for it. The
movie makes Brundage out to be venal, willing to do dishonest things
for money. For me, that detracted from what appears to have been his
fundamental racism against both Blacks and Jews.

I also found it strange that this movie does not deal with the
immediate aftermath of the Olympics for Owens - he was barred from
further Amateur Athletic Union competitions, and all the offers of
money from various American individuals and groups vanished. Before he
had even returned to America, in other words, Owens had already been
cheated of part of his success.

Now I need to watch the movie a second time, to see where else it
diverges from or extrapolates on history.
<|_=00=_|>
It's easy to get distracted by well, life  even when you're doing
something important (maybe, ESPECIALLY when you're doing something
important). If you have a faithful "significant other" who is not
around at the moment, you may be tempted to stray from "Miss Right" in
favor of "Miss Right Now" (or "Mr." whichever the case may be). If
you're determined to accomplish something big, you may be confronted
with people who believe you will fail (and even want you to fail)  and
openly express those feelings, whether out of pettiness, jealousy or
even the color of your skin. If you're succeeding at something that
draws a lot of attention, others will want to use you or your
accomplishments to further their own personal, financial or political
goals. These are just some of the distractions competing for the main
character's attention in "Race" (PG-13, 2:14). Of course, I think we'd
all agree that, in the end, what defines each of us is how we deal with
our distractions. Jesse Owens learned that lesson well.

Stephan James plays the legendary runner from the ages of 20 to 23, the
years that turned him from virtually unknown high school track star in
Cleveland, Ohio to the man who defied Adolph Hitler's myth of "Aryan"
racial superiority at the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin, Germany.
Jesse (actually, "J.C.", notwithstanding his elementary school
teacher's misunderstanding his name) is in a long-term relationship
with Ruth Solomon (Shanice Banton), with whom he has a little girl, but
he has to say goodbye to both of them (and his large family) to begin
his higher education and college track and field career at The Ohio
State University in Columbus. It is there that he meets track coach
Larry Snyder (Jason Sudeikis), the man tasked with turning Owens' raw
talent into even greater accomplishments.

Owens first struggles with, then learns to overcome the distractions of
sexual temptation, racial prejudice and the competing interests of some
pretty important people who are determined to make Owens a pawn in
their games of politics and perception. Early on we see Owens'
incredible performance at a 1935 Big Ten track meet in Ann Arbor,
Michigan, where he put together what many people consider the most
impressive 45 minutes in sports history. While at a meet in L.A.,
Owens' growing fame attracts the attention of the sexy, glamorous and
wealthy Quincella, otherwise known as major distraction no. 1.
Throughout his life, and even as a famous athlete, Owens has to endure
the indignities of being forced to use "colored" entrances to
buildings, being literally pushed aside by his white teammates and
having racial epithets screamed at him while he's competing. (This is
major distraction no. 2, but it also shows the illogic and hypocrisy of
racism as his successes lead those who treat him horribly to cheer,
embrace  and use him.) This brings us to major distraction no. 3  the
politics which swirled around Jesse Owens.

As Owens works hard to become a better runner  and a better man  the
pattern of ethnic and racial discrimination in the Olympics' designated
host country overshadows (and even threatens to derail) Owens' growing
list of successes and his potential future accomplishments. The U.S.
Olympic Committee (with Oscar winners Jeremy Irons and William Hurt
representing conflicting positions) debate whether it's more important
for the U.S. to boycott the Berlin games to make a statement about
Germany's human rights abuses or for the American athletes (including
the black and Jewish ones) to have the hard-won opportunity to compete
 and maybe even to beat the Nazis at their own games. Eventually, the
debate literally arrives at Owens' doorstep as a representative of the
relatively new NAACP puts significant pressure on Owens to refuse to
attend the games as a way of striking a blow against discrimination.
Owens now has the same debate within himself as the U.S. Olympic
Committee had on behalf of all the athletes. It's no great mystery
which decisions are made, but it's still interesting to see these
stories play out on the national and international levels  and on a
very, very personal level.

"Race" is solid entertainment and very inspirational, but not as
impactful as it could have been. James makes Owens' struggle suitably
personal, but his portrayal lacks the emotional depth that would have
really driven the movie's messages home. SNL's Sudeikis is effective at
playing it straight, but is a little shallow as Owens'
coach-mentor-friend. The screenplay, by Joe Shrapnel and Anna
Waterhouse, does a great job at balancing Owens' story with the
surrounding historical drama and spares us the full ugliness of the
Nazis' treatment of their own people and Americans' treatment of Owens,
but fails to go far enough into the story's most important issues.
Stephen Hopkins' direction is even-handed, but antiseptic. "Race" is
appropriate for families, but should have explored the parallels
between the racial issues of the 1930s and those of the 2010s. While we
do see a reflection of the ongoing argument over whether it's more
important to take a stand than to overcome adversity through
accomplishment, the theme isn't sufficiently played out. Overall, the
film effectively tells the dual stories implied by its title, while it
educates and inspires, and it has its thrilling moments, but it runs
past issues that would have been better served by a deep dive (if
you'll excuse the mixed sports metaphor). "B+"
<|_=00=_|>
I think the script writers were confused. Either they don't know the
difference between Cleveland, Ohio and Cleveland, Mississippi, or they
don't care, which would be even worse.

There was no discrimination in public accommodations in Cleveland, Ohio
in the 1930s. African Americans did not have to sit in the back of the
bus. When the script called for Jessie Owens to sit in the back of a
bus in Cleveland, Ohio, it was in complete disregard for the truth. I
checked with my mother, who went to the same high school with Jessie
Owens. She went everywhere on the bus or the street car. Everyone did.
And they all sat together, black and white. 

Another problem with the script was the blatant racism in the locker
room at Ohio State University. The Buckeye football team was already
integrated by the time Jessie Owens arrived. William "Big Bill" Bell
was an All American for the Buckeyes, and played from 1929 to 1931. I
guess there could have been some racists who gave Jessie Owens some
grief in the locker room, but it certainly would not have been so
institutionalized as depicted in the film.

As much as those blatant misportrayals bother me, the thing that
bothered me most was when Jessie was agonizing over whether to go to
Berlin, his wife told him that he was never much good at thinking, so
he should not do it. How much more racially condescending could the
script writer be?

What a shame that this movie that could have been a rich source for
teaching a moral lesson instead was turned into a source of
misinformation and condescension. 

The movie had some good moments, so I give it 4 out of 10 stars. Do not
accept it as a reflection of reality, as it is not.
<|_=00=_|>
This successful film biography traces the life and career of Jesse
Owens, who won four gold medals at the 1936 Olympics in Berlin. The
film is well acted, and the closing sequence recreating the Berlin
Olympics was especially dynamic.

Stephan James is a clearly a gifted athlete and a fine young actor, as
apparent in his interpretation of the role of Jesse Owens. Much of the
film was presented through the lens of Owens' relationship with his
Ohio State track coach Larry Snyder, convincingly played by actor Jason
Sudeikis. The cast included Jeremy Irons, who was excellent in the role
of the controversial Olympic administrator Avery Brundage.

Another strength of the film were the behind-the-scenes maneuverings of
the Nazis in Berlin. The most interesting character interpretation was
that of the filmmaker Leni Riefenstahl, which was played very well by
Dutch actress Carice van Houten. The unique spin taken by the
screenwriters was to make Riefenstahl a very sympathetic and even
impartial filmmaker, who defied Goebbels' edict to ban the filming of
the final relay race, which was Owens' fourth gold medal. Some of the
best scenes of the film were those of Riefenstahl at work in filming
her famous documentary "Olympiad." This revisionist view of Riefenstahl
may serve in thawing the longstanding prejudice about her as a pawn of
the Third Reich and a director associated exclusively with Nazi
propaganda.

Overall, "Race" was a well-made and well-performed historical drama and
biography of one of the great athletes and heroes of the twentieth
century.
<|_=00=_|>
Review: I really enjoyed this Jesse Owens biopic, which shows how he
won his many Gold medals at the 1936 Olympics, under heavy racial
tension from the Germans but I was hoping to see more about the man
himself, who was truly an amazing athlete. Jesse Owens is played by
Stephan James, who leaves the streets of Cleveland Ohio, and goes Ohio
State to pursue his dreams to become a track and field star, with his
close friend Dave Albritton (Eli Goree). Meanwhile Larry Snyder (Jason
Sudeikis) is having problems as the coach at Ohio State, because he
hasn't had an national win since he has arrived, so his job is on the
line and he isn't impressed with the daily candidates, who lead to
nothing. After watching Owens train, and being very impressed with his
times, he decides to take Owen under his wing and he shows him the
ropes of becoming a star. Behind the scenes, Avery Brundage (Jeremy
Irons) is fighting to allow Black and Jewish competitors at the
Olympics but with the racist political views from Hitler and his
assistants, it takes some time for Avery to convince the Germans that
it would make a better games if they are allowed to compete. Anyway,
once the games eventually get going, Jesse Owens smashes loads of
records and wins numerous gold medals for his country. Its a truly
great achievement for a black man, in that day and age, and the
relationship between Owens and Snyder was quite emotional. I would have
liked to have seen some more depth to the characters but apart from
that, it's an entertaining movie which portrays a time in sports, which
changed the game forever. Enjoyable!

Round-Up: Personally, I think that this movie needed a top director to
bring the intense emotion across to the big screen but Jamaican born
Stephen Hopkins done a decent job. His previous titles include A
Nightmare on Elm Street 5, Predator 2, which wasn't close to the first
movie, Judgement Night, Blown Away, The Ghost in the Darkness, Lost In
Space, Tube Tales, Under Suspicion, The Life and Death of Peter Sellers
and The Reaping in 2007, starring Hilary Swank. He has also worked on
numerous TV series like, 24, House of Lies, Californication, Shameless
and the Unusuals, so he has quite a decent portfolio to date. With so
much information available about Jesse Owens achievements, this movie
seemed a bit safe, but with that aside, it's great that he brought this
amazing story to light. I would have liked to have seen a top actor
play the main role, like Will Smith did with Ali but that's not to say
that Stephan James didn't do a good job. Although this film made a
decent profit, it would be good to see a BIG budget version of Jesse
Owens life, because it's truly an inspiring story that a lot of people
can learn from.

Budget: $5million Worldwide Gross: $25million

I recommend this movie to people who are into their
biography/history/dramas, starring Stephan James, Jason Sudeikis, Eli
Goree, Jeremy Irons, William Hurt, Carice van Houten, David Kross,
Shanice Banton, Tim McInnerny and Glynn Turman. 5/10
