
So... a pretty, funny, former sitcom actress... gives us a few signs
that she might be capable of playing roles outside of the 'amusing
chick' rom-com regular. 

She does parts that secure her reputation of being a talented American
'cutie', she plays 'off-beat' characters with ease... and only
occasionally lets the 'pay-day' Hollywood 'starlet' see the light of
day. 

Then she does this. A film that explores suicide, mental illness,
self-loathing and the morality of friendship.

At the age of 60, I have gotten used to the annual round of 'Oscar
Worthy' films being shoved down our throats... but this is different.
Fine writing, authentic story telling... and unnecessarily great
acting. 

Any 'Oscar' hungry actor could have made a decent job of this... but Ms
Aniston makes a brilliant job of it. She is no 'pretty-girl' actor
here... she displays vulnerability, courageous wit... and does it all
with aplomb.

If she doesn't get 'Best Actress'... the 'Oscars' are irrelevant.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not hard to guess why critics and audiences might be turned off by
Cake. For the first half, Jennifer Aniston's Claire is snarky with a
comeback for everything, manipulates and abuses everyone around her,
and indulges in a constant, expensive pity party, and we aren't told
why. Once the meat of the story reveals itself, however, Cake is
astonishingly clever, delicate, and emotional.

Claire Bennett is the apparent victim of an unexplained accident that
left her with chronic pain, a bad attitude, and a trail of broken
relationships. After a woman in her pain support group commits suicide,
Claire tracks down the woman's husband in a curiously misguided search
for answers. 

It's not the most unique premise, but screenwriter Patrick Tobin takes
the story in unexpected directions, avoiding clich√©s and handling the
subject matter with surprising grace. Director Daniel Barnz could have
used some more time in the editing room -- certain side characters and
subplots get either more or less time and background than they deserve;
why Anna Kendrick's character made it past a rough cut is beyond me --
but in his hands a wordy screenplay becomes visually interesting, moves
along at a comfortable pace and is backed by a reflective, unobtrusive
score. His direction, and so the movie, really won me over at the
climax, where after an hour and a half of sarcasm and one-liners Claire
shuts up for once and finally lets the pain in. It's a beautiful,
heartrending scene, and the decision to rest Cake on Jennifer Aniston's
shoulders was absolutely the right one.

I never thought much of Adriana Barraza in Babel and have only seen her
in a couple of other movies but she adds so many personal touches to
the role of Claire's maid/cook/home health aide/best friend, she has a
real talent for empathy and nuance. Jennifer Aniston, though, is the
standout. She clearly reveled in the chance to break away from Rachel
and she aced it. There's a tiny moment where Sam Worthington's
character tells her she's messed up, and she plays the reaction shot so
completely differently from anything she's done in the past - that's
when I really started believing her in the role and she only got better
from there. She nails her character's dry sense of humor and
selfishness, and knows exactly how much charm to give her to make her
watchable if not likable. It's a seriously committed, seamless,
career-defining performance and she'd be my pick for this year's Oscar.

Verdict: watch it for Jennifer Aniston, walk away pleasantly surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a Jennifer Anniston fan although I have enjoyed the odd thing
she has done over the years but she truly is gifted in this portrayal.
The movie hinges on this character so if it was not done with great
integrity and clarity and humor --it would not work. Ms. Anniston
actually looks like a person and not terribly attractive at that --not
a movie star in any way. Which is crucial to entering into this story.
The supporting characters particularly her "maid" who is absolutely
wonderful and integral to the story are mostly well drawn. It is not a
movie that to entertain in the light vein (needless to say) but it is
well worth watching for this compelling story of a woman in many kinds
of pain and how she begins to overcome that overwhelming pain.
<|_=00=_|>
Patrick Tobin's laser-sharp script provides a profound template for
complex performances by Jennifer Aniston, Adriana Barraza, Anna
Kendrick, and Felicity Huffman.

Sam Worthington crackles with intensity in this perceptive and
refreshingly unapologetic film about rage, pain and loss.

Our culture asks us to forgive. Sociopaths want us to forgive and
forget. "Cake" explores the difficulty of navigating the real and
brutal emotions we face when a tragedy crashes in to our lives.

Though the name indicates a buttery, sweet confection, this "Cake" is a
rich and savory course, best enjoyed with a hearty Cabernet and a
couple of Vicodin.
<|_=00=_|>
An excellent film with an intriguing plot, delivered with a
refreshingly down-to-earth storytelling. The buzz about Jennifer
Aniston is actually true -- it takes very little time for Aniston to
disappear on the screen (and after 15 years of daily Rachel, that in
itself is a big achievement). It is someone new we are introduced to in
the film, and well... I followed Claire with a mix of annoyance,
empathy and curiosity, totally absorbed.

The central story is very good and the big answers are withheld from us
in such way that you keep trying and paying attention not to miss
anything, because in this film, there is much beauty in the detail.
Much to Aniston's credit, it's her performance that grabs you, and the
subtlety in how the story is revealed makes our understanding of what's
happening to this broken body and soul both moving and endearing. There
is humour as well, dark and quick, and it does not let you soak on it
for too long. Just as life.

There are some minor "deviations" in the story which don't really add
much to the realism of everything else, and it somewhat pulls you back
from the emotional depth you had been immersed until then - but those
are brief moments. 

Small budget, great script, great direction and a solid, moving
performance by Aniston (which led me to tears). The remaining cast
deserves praise as well, and all comes together really nicel. But it
should be said, Aniston has done a brilliant job on this one. She has
talent. I would hope Hollywood-land is paying attention and allow us to
enjoy more of her in more of these.
<|_=00=_|>
'Cake' starts very promising. The main character is dealing with
chronic pain and drug (ab)use. After the suicide of a girl from her
support group, she starts to think about ending it herself but somehow
her will to live seems to be stronger. I think this is a sensitive
topic for lots of people, and it's what fascinated me enough to watch
the movie. Sadly, the story starts to drag after a while and loses
depth very fast.

Like many others here, I was curious about Jen's performance, because
it's always nice to see another side of an actor, especially one who
gets a lot of typecasting. I've always thought of her as a terrific
comedy actress with an amazing sense of timing. I have to say, her
performance didn't really touch me. She didn't do bad with what she
got, but I missed some connection to her character. I disagree with
other reviewers calling this the best performance of her career.

What makes a movie great to me is the urge to watch it again, which I
didn't experience with this one. I didn't feel any emotion even though
the theme is supposed to be very touching.
<|_=00=_|>
The reviews were for this were... not good. Perhaps it was because of
lowered expectations, but this was a perfectly fine, solid film. Not a
great one, no, but a solid film that serves as a vehicle for some
really good acting. Barraza injects a lot of humanity and compassion in
her character, even if sadly, she's not given as much screen time as
she deserves. And while it seemed like all of the hype for Jennifer
Aniston was for the reason of who she was (and it probably was) she's
strong here. There's no real ounce of superficiality or showing off,
certainly not when the character isn't a very showy one to showcase.
She would actually be deserving of an Oscar nomination.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen most of the top-contending movies of 2014 and this one has
resonated more deeply with me than anything else.

Probably because of the very recent injury (without emotional scarring)
I've experienced where it hurt to move and even lay down, I could
almost feel the physical pain of Aniston's character.

Jennifer Aniston has done a superb job in this movie. I can still
remember how it felt to be in pain, so every gesture, every move, every
breath she took were right on. Either she was in real pain while
filming or she's a great actress. 

The narrative while straight-forward and leaves little to
imagination/guessing is emotionally involving (more so than most of the
other movies of 2014), making the movie a great watch.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a woman with chronic pain, who becomes
fixated with the suicide of a member in her support group. She works
through the death of the friend, in order to work through her own
grief.

Jennifer Aniston is only vaguely recognisable in this film, because she
has scars on her face, she looks older, put on weight and basically is
not looking glamorous at all. She plays this woman who is misusing pain
killers, which gives her hallucinations. It is sad to see that she is
so troubled by the events. I was also impressed by Adriana Barraza, who
gives a stunning tirade in Spanish after Jennifer Aniston's ordeal on
the train tracks. The tirade somehow leads to the satisfying ending,
which is a subtly happy one.

It is not immediately apparent why the film is called "Cake", if you
have not watched it. After watching it, I see why it is called cake,
but I still find it a little to far fetched to be related to the
central story line.
