
Why remake Murder On The Orient Express when there are so many titles
from Agatha Christie's bibliography that have never been made.
Specially this one, directed in 1974 by Sidney Lumet - a genius at
having many great actors within a confined space, think 12 Angry Men -
with a cast that was to die for. The 2017 Kenneth Brannagh couldn't
survive the comparison and it doesn't. I missed the elegance and the
wit. Albert Finney got an Oscar nomination for his Hercules Poirot here
Kenneth Brannagh's mustache will get all the attention as well as
Johnny Depp's incomprehensible performance. Then, of course, the score.
The original Richard Rodney Bennett became a classic. So, I ask you,
was this necessary?
<|_=00=_|>
I am loathe to put the boot in to any film but the barrage of publicity
for this, plastered all over the BBC news and chat shows - Graham
Norton and Andrew Marr interviewing the phalanx of "stars" in a
suitable subservient way - has pushed this reviewer over the edge. It
is a film that didn't need a remake since the original was perfectly
acted and nuanced. Perhaps that is half the problem - I know the
"solution" and therefore the denouement is no surprise- but there is
something more deeply flawed with this movie. Firstly - that moustache.
Ridiculous and in the end it becomes something that you stare at and
wonder just why something so outrageously stupid would NOT get in the
way of what words the actor is actually saying. You stop listening and
just try and see where it is stuck on. Branagh stomps around the
various scenes like Peter O'Toole in Lawrence of Arabia (even down to
walking along the top of the snow-covered carriage as if he was king of
the castle) and then addresses the suspects in a scene that is
reminiscent of The Last Supper painting. Everywhere he goes everyone
knows him. Absolutely everyone. The opening scenes in Jerusalem are
unnecessary and only serve to raise Branagh/Poirot into God like status
where the population of the city are happy to take his word and trample
a suspect policeman to death. No jury, no trial, lynch mob rules. All
of which seems to bother the guardian of justice not one jot.

Cut to the train - at last. We hear that the train is full and that
Poirot will have to share a cabin for at least one night. As we
discover that there are just 12 passengers on the whole train I
wondered what happened to all the other empty berths on the other
carriages. Let's just pass over that one. We are now introduced to the
various characters. I don't know how much these stars got paid for this
movie but boy, apart from Michelle Pfeiffer, they don't have too many
words to say. The main action is sitting around looking suspiciously at
each other. Depp is mostly unintelligible evidenced by his recent
performance on the Graham Norton show where he found it difficult to
string two words together. It is only Branagh who has the dialogue -
and he works it as hard as he can into some kind of Shakespearean
dialogue. Judi Dench plays the part Wendy Hiller took in the 1974 film.
I know Dench is supposed to be the public's "favourite" but Hiller's
sneering haughtiness will remain one of the highlights of the earlier
film long after this one is forgotten.

In the novel and the 1974 film the train gets stuck in a drift. Here it
is struck by an avalanche and teeters on a wooden viaduct. Ain't CGI
wonderful? The engine is derailed but never fear he comes a gang of ten
workers who will dig away the snow and pull a 100 ton engine back on to
the tracks - with their bare hands. Marvellous.

And the music score? Possibly the most disappointing part of the whole
film when one considers the classic Richard Rodney Bennett score for
the 1974 film. Patrick Doyle's offering is just insipid and uninspired.
The closing credits roll with some vapid pop song burbling away in the
background. 

Well, if you've never seen the 1974 film and you don't know the ending
you may enjoy this but perhaps you should locate that earlier film and
wait for this to end up on the Â£3 shelf at Tesco. It would appear, to
judge by the final quip by Poirot in the film that Branagh is planning
to redo Death on the Nile. God help us.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw the cast line-up for this film, I thought it was going
to be a masterpiece. Kenneth Branagh, Judi Dench, Johnny Depp etc. The
list goes on. But, it goes to show that a brilliant cast cannot make-up
for mediocre. 

I'm being careful to avoid spoilers here! The film starts with a
relatively entertaining light-hearted action sequence which brings
Poirot to the forefront of the story-line. But, it quickly goes
downhill from here. We are then introduced to the rest of the cast and
we quickly learn they all have their own stories. 

After this though, the film becomes incredibly dull and slow. This
remake is completely unnecessary and tedious 

I have only given it 5 stars because I have significant respect for
Agatha Christie's Poirot and it is only the base story-line which
rescues it. Boring acting and predictable plot-twists. 

Most definitely mediocre.
<|_=00=_|>
If you have any affection for Sidney Lumet's 1974's stellar version of
"Murder On the Orient Express", do not bother watching this new
version, you will be very disappointed. Even the poster reflects an
uninteresting tone, the font used is modern and lacks any sense of
style.

Kenneth Branagh is a great director and actor that has given us some
memorable films, unfortunately "Murder On the Orient Express" isn't one
of them.

At last night's screening of "Murder On the Orient Express" I had to
use the restroom after about 40 minutes. As I reentered the theater the
person entering with me asked me "Do you think this movie will ever get
started?" I said "I don't know; I guess we'll have to see." It caught
fire way to late, in about the last 20 minutes.

Indeed, the movie had a painfully slow start, with a completely
overproduced prologue that seemed quite unnecessary. The introduction
of the characters is messy and it becomes rather confusing as to who
they are. The cast is full of great actors, but so few are able to
"shine" in this production. 

Kenneth Branagh is an interesting Hercule Poirot, he seems to be trying
way too hard, and for me somehow he never "owned it." The extremely
grotesque mustache seemed to get in the way 

Michelle Pfeiffer, as Mrs. Hubbard is lackluster and quite flat, until
the last 20 minutes where she does get a chance to shine, but by then
it's too late, but it's not her fault.

Derek Jacobi, one of our greatest actors is so misdirected in this
version that he delivers an insipid performance. Penelope Cruz walks
through a part that gained Ingrid Bergman an Oscar in the original,
again not their fault.

Interestingly enough, it is Johnny Depp who gives the best performance.
He embodies his character with the right amount of vile corruptness,
and sleaziness that brings life to the screen. He also has the most
interesting costumes in the movie.

Judi Dench is elegant and funny but her companion played by Olivia
Coleman, who usually turns in stellar performances is totally
uninteresting here, again not her fault. 

The production is indeed rich and elegant in its production design, and
cinematography. The costumes however are fine, but lack a certain
panache and glamour we have grown to admire in past Agatha Christie
films, such as those designed by Tony Walton, and Anthony Powell.
Alexandra Byrne is an extraordinary designer, but somehow it feels like
the concept was to be subtle and "real". She needed to be bold and
adventurous like her work on the "Elizabeth" films with Cate
Blanchette.

The musical score vacillates from very generic, to frantic and never
finds the right tone, never providing a sense of mystery and suspense.
Only when true vintage songs are incorporated does the atmosphere come
alive.

Kenneth Branagh is such a gifted filmmaker, it is sad to see this film
fall short. He is in almost every frame, perhaps he would have crafted
a better film if he was not in it. As the conductor of this train, he
did not provide an elegant journey with wit and great character
development for one of Agatha Christie's finest stories.
<|_=00=_|>
Why did Kenneth Branagh want to make a third version of this classic
Agatha Christie story knowing remakes of classic films rarely are
successful?

The previous two versions the film in 1974 with Albert Finney as
Hercule Poirot and the 2010 television version with David Suchet are
both superb.

If you haven't seen either you probably may enjoy this as I don't
criticise the acting or production . It's an interesting cast I enjoyed
Michelle Pfeiffer in the role of Caroline Hubbard so classily played in
the original by Lauren Bacall and Branagh gives a credible performance
as Poirot.

What I missed was the elegance of the original the original score by
Richard Rodney Bennett is one of my all time favourite film scores
,used so evocatively in the original film it gave the Orient Express an
identity motif forever etched in film history.

The music score in this attempt is bland and the song at the end
credits so saccharine sweet and forgettable I've forgotten it already.

If you make a remake film that's so well known you can't help comparing
the original cast and in 1974 we had Albert Finney, Ingrid Bergman,
Lauren Bacall , Dame Wendy Huller , Richard Widmark, Sean Connery, John
Gielgud , Rachel Roberts and Vanessa Redgrave to name a few , yet not
one of the new cast including Dame Judy Dench eclipses any of the
performances of the original film . The costumes and sets are very good
in this version but again in 1974 even without blue screens and cgi
effects the elegance and luxury of the original is not improved with
this version. So to me the good performances and production of this
movie were wasted on this expensive film and the tweaking of the story
line was totally unnecessary and in one instance concerning the
Caroline Hubbard role ridiculous.

Without giving anything away or spoiling it for audiences who haven't
seen the original, apart from recommending the 1974 version to this one
I was horrified at the hint at the end of the movie that Kenneth
Branagh may remake "Death on the Nile"I sincerely hope not. What next
will we a have Kenneth Branagh remake of Gone With The Wind starting
himself as Rhett Butler and Anne Hathaway as Scarlett?
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see Murder on the Orient Express last night and afterwards
thought what was the point? Did Kenneth Branagh do it for self
indulgence. In 1974 it was great to see Albert Finney, Laureen Bacall,
Ingrid Bergman, Sean Connerry etc playing the parts. There was a still
a certain mystique about film stars, especially the ones from
yesteryear. Now on the Graham Norton show we can see how vacuous so
many of them are. Yes the scenery was spectacular. The costumes were
great. But honestly, really honestly other than having several A
Listers or B+ Listers who hardly open their mouths and a Hercules
Poirot in Branagh not in the same class as Finney or David Suchet I
would say that TV does these thrillers much much better these days. The
opening scene in Jerusalem was like something out of Raiders of the
Lost Ark. But Poirot is no Indiana Jones. The ending which tells us
that we can prepare ourselves for a remake of Death on the Nile. No
thank you, even if Meryl Streep and Tom Hanks are in it!
<|_=00=_|>
There's a big problem with Kenneth Branagh's 2017 filming of the
Hercule Poirot-based murder mysteryÂ. and that's the 1974 Sidney Lumet
classic featuring Albert Finney in the starring role. For that film was
so memorable Â at least, the "who" of the "whodunnit" (no spoilers
here) was so memorable Â that any remake is likely to be tarnished by
that knowledge. If you go into this film blissfully unaware of the
plot, you are a lucky man/woman. For this is a classic Agatha Christie
yarn.

The irascible, borderline OCD, but undeniably great Belgian detective,
Poirot, is dragged around the world by grateful police forces to help
solve unsolvable crimes. After solving a case in Jerusalem, Poirot is
called back to the UK with his mode of transport being the famous
Orient Express. Trapped in the mountains by an avalanche, a murder is
committed and with multiple suspects and a plethora of clues it is up
to Poirot to solve the case.

Branagh enjoys himself enormously as Poirot, sporting the most
distractingly magnificent facial hair since Daniel Day-Lewis in "The
Gangs of New York". The moustache must have had its own trailer and
make-up team!

Above all, the film is glorious to look at, featuring a rich and exotic
colour palette that is reminiscent of the early colour films of the
40's. Cinematography was by Haris Zambarloukos ("Mamma Mia" and who
also collaborated with Branagh on "Thor) with lots of innovative
"ceiling down" shots and artful point-of-view takes that might be
annoying to some but which I consider as deserving of Oscar/BAFTA
nominations.

The pictures are accompanied by a lush score by Patrick Doyle (who also
scored Branagh's "Thor"). Hats off also to the special effects crew,
who made the alpine bridge scenes look decidedly more alpine than where
they were actually filmed (on a specially made bridge in the Surrey
Hills!).

All these technical elements combine to make the film's early stages
look and feel truly epic.

And the castÂ what a cast! Dame Judi Dench ("Victoria and Abdul");
Olivia Coleman ("The Lobster"); Johnny Depp ("Black Mass"); Daisy
Ridley ("Star Wars: The Force Awakens"); PenÃ©lope Cruz ("Zoolander 2");
Josh Gad (Olaf!); Derek Jacobi ("I, Claudius"); Willem Dafoe ("The
Great Wall") and Michelle Pfeiffer ("mother!"). A real case again of an
"oh, it's you" film again at the cinema Â when's the last time we saw
that? 

It's also great to see young Lucy Boynton, so magnificent in last
year's excellent "Sing Street", getting an A-list role as the twitchy
and disturbed countess. 

With all these ingredients in the pot, it should be great, right?
Unfortunately, in my view, no, not quite. The film's opening momentum
is really not maintained by the screenplay by Michael Green ("Blade
Runner 2049"; "Logan"). At heart, it's a fairly static and "stagey"
piece at best, set as it is on the rather claustrophobic train (just
three carriagesÂ on the Orient ExpressÂ really?). But the tale is made
even more static by the train's derailment in the snow. Branagh and
Green try to sex up the action where they can, but there are lengthy
passages of fairly repetitive dialogue. One encounter in particular
between Branagh and Depp seems to last interminably: you wonder if the
problem was that the director wasn't always looking on to yell "Cut"! 

All this leads to the "revelation" of the murderer as being a bit of an
anticlimactic "thank heavens for that" rather than the gasping
denouement it should have been. (Perhaps this would be different if you
didn't know the twist).

However, these reservations aside, it's an enjoyable night out at the
flicks, although a bit of a disappointment from the level of
expectation I had for it. I can't be too grumpy about it, given it's a
return to good old-fashioned yarn-spinning at the cinema, with great
visuals and an epic cast. And that has to be good news.

For sure, Branagh does make for an amusing and engaging Poirot, even if
his dialogue did need some 'tuning in' to. There was a suggestion at
the end of the film that we might be seeing his return in "Death on the
Nile" Â the most lush and decorous of Peter Ustinov's outings Â which I
would certainly welcome. He will have to find another 10 A- list stars
though to decorate the boat, which will be a challenge for casting! 

(For the full graphical review, please visit bob-the-movie-man.com, or
check out One Mann's Movies on Facebook. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
When was the last time Hollywood gave us a true old school style
"whodunit" type of film? (Don't strain your brain here. You can take it
as rhetorical.) These types of stories, where a detective is presented
with a crime scene and figures it all out with just their intellect and
powers of observation have always been a big part of my life. Trying to
figure out the culprit before its eventual reveal was always
challenging to me, and putting these stories on the big screen have
kind of faded into the background. So, what do you do when you want to
bring them back? Call Kenneth Branagh.

In his latest film, he brings to life one of the most famous detective
novels in Agatha Christie's "Murder on the Orient Express". He plays
the famous (and infamous, depending on who you are) Belgian detective
Hercule Poirot, who is taking a bit of a vacation on his way to his
next case on the famous Orient Express. Unfortunately, fate has its own
plans for him as a murder most foul (I have always wanted to use that
phrase in a review) happens during a snowstorm that derails the train.
No one is seen by Poirot as innocent as he questions the passengers,
follows the clues, and races against time to solve the case before the
local authorities arrive and could accuse the wrong person of the
murder.

OK, so let me run down the cast for you: Johnny Depp, Michelle
Pfeiffer, Daisy Ridley, Leslie Odom, Jr., Tom Bateman, Josh Gad,
Penelope Cruz, Derek Jacobi, Olivia Coleman, Willem Defoe, and Dame
Judi Dench. And yes, they are ALL in this thing, as well as Branagh,
who also directed. Given all of that paired with the fact that this
runs less than two hours, and I was intrigued on multiple levels. And
trust me here: this film does not disappoint. Sure, there are some
liberties taken from the source material, but none of them are so far
out of the norm that will drive the fans of any previous iterations of
this story. Branagh is truly enjoyable as the character who is a genius
but has his own issues that actually enhance his powers of observation,
and his direction is top-notch here. This is gorgeously shot, including
a few shots where there is a nod to the old ways of effects, giving a
tighter and more nostalgic feel to the modern telling of this tale.

The performances here are exactly what I expected from a cast of this
caliber. With a story that has been around as long as "Murder on the
Orient Express" has been (the book was written in 1934), there is a bit
of a minefield when it comes to bringing it to life that could easily
fall down the slope into parody or cariacature, but diverse
screenwriter Michael Green, whose resume covers everything from "Green
Lantern" to "Everwood" and even "Logan," is able to write dialogue that
lets the actors really get into the skins of these characters to treat
them with the proper respect and dignity. Yes, there ARE a few
liberties taken with the characters themselves, but there was nothing
done that gave me even a little bit of growling. Each character has its
own arc and motivations that work into the larger picture in a way that
is engaging with no wasted space at all.

There will be people that will find this film to be a bit outlandish,
but I feel that those people are those that have not taken the time to
really study the genre. Not every film has to dumb itself down to cater
to the lowest common denominator, and I really enjoy it when a film
tells me to engage my suspension of disbelief and simply entertain me.
For great escapism and a reminder of a simpler time, "Murder on the
Orient Express" achieves this goal for an audience that can truly
appreciate its greatness.
<|_=00=_|>
Diane and I viewed this beauty of a film this afternoon, and we both
thoroughly enjoyed a magical cinema event: I use these words because
the movie takes you out of your own reality and places you in another
world that is not macabre or dangerous but filled with beautiful
people, costumes and settings. 

Perhaps the reader can tell that I love being removed from the
mundanity of our ordinary existence. This beautifully constructed film
filled with marvellous actors who are dressed in gorgeous timely
costumes and set to work in spectacular train compartments and asked to
use a perfect script will leave many cinema-goers anticipating more.

If I were much younger, I would not hunger for the movies from the
Directors Period in the 70s and 80s when they were allowed to make
Great Movies rather than only the money-men. In any event, see this
film for its sublime attractions painted by Kenneth Branagh.
<|_=00=_|>
Difficult Kenneth Branagh makes, produces, and stars in good movies,
and this version of Murder on the Orient Express features impressive
sets, beautiful scenery, and lovely period clothes. An impressive case
features PenÃ©lope Cruz, Johnny Depp, Derek Jacobi, Michelle Pfeiffer,
Judi Dench, Willem Dafoe, and Kennth Branagh as Hercule Poirot. I think
those who are not familiar with Agatha Christie, Poirot, or the story
may very well like this movie.

I, on the other hand, was massively disappointed, especially by Branagh
as a sort of English upper-class colonel with a stick-on cavalry
moustache and by the needless addition of an introductory scene at the
Wailing Wall. But I am prejudiced. I read the 1934 novel decades ago
and again more recently. I liked the 1974 star-studded version with
Lauren Bacall, Ingrid Bergman, Jacqueline Bisset, Sean Connery, John
Gielgud, Wendy Hiller, Anthony Perkins, Vanessa Redgrave, Richard
Widmark, and Michael YorkÂdespite the fact that Albert Finney was a
very poor version of Christie's Hercule Poirot. 

In my opinion, the 2010 television version of the story starred David
Suchet as the definitive Poirot, and the ending was far and away the
best of all the versions with which I am familiar. So I think Christie
fans may want to skip this edition of the classic.
