
The worst thing about this movie is its title. The second worst thing
about this movie is its trailer. Both will either a) put people off
seeing it (it succeeded in that with my wife for example) or b) make
people conclude it is a 'nice holiday film to take the kids to', which
is also an horrendous mistake!

This is a crying shame because it is a riveting drama and a superb
piece of film-making that may well catapult it already into my top 10
films of 2017. But it is not, I would suggest, a film that is remotely
suitable for kids under 10 to see, dealing as it does with terminal
illness, bullying and impending doom. For this is a dark (read pitch
black) but hauntingly beautiful film.

Lewis MacDougall, in only his second film (after last year's "Peter
Pan") plays Conor - a young but talented and sensitive artist growing
up as a 12 year old in the North of England with his single mum
(Felicity Jones). She is suffering from an aggressive form of cancer
and is forever medically grasping for a new hope (D'ya see what I did
there?). Young Conor believes fervently that each new treatment will be
'the one' but the building tension, the lack of sleep and his recurrent
nightmares are destroying him mentally and physically. As if this
wasn't enough, his distracted nature is leading to him being seriously
bullied at school and there is the added stress of having to live in
his grandmother's pristine and teen-unfriendly house when his mother is
hospitalised. 

Towering over the nearby graveyard on the hill is an ancient yew tree
and Conor is visited after midnight by this "monster" (voiced by Liam
Neeson). Is he dreaming, or is it real? The tree dispatches wisdom in
the form of three 'tales', with the proviso that Conor tell the tree
the fourth tale which "must be the truth".

A tale of grief, guilt and a search for closure, this is a harrowing
but rewarding journey for the viewer. 

The film is technically outstanding on so many levels:

- the art design is superb, with the gorgeous 'tale animations' being
highly reminiscent of the beautiful ones in "Harry Potter and the
Deathly Hallows, Part 1"; 

- the use of sound is brilliant, with sudden silence being used as a
weapon with which to assault the senses in one key sequence; - the
cinematography by Oscar Faura ("The Imitation Game") is faultless,
capturing both the dreary reality in a Northern winter with the
comparative warmth of the strange dream-like sequences;

- the music by Fernando Velázquez is used effectively and intelligently
to reflect the sombre mood; 

- the special effects team led by Pau Costa ("The Revenant", "The
Impossible") shines not just with Neesen's monster, but with the
incorporation of the root and branch effects into the 'normal'
surroundings. 

As the BFG illustrated, having a whole film carried by a young actor is
a bit of an ask, but here Lewis MacDougall achieves just that like a
seasoned pro. His performance is nothing short of staggering and -
although a brave move by the Academy - it would be great to see him
nominated for a BAFTA acting award for this.

Confirming her position in the acting top-flight is Felicity Jones,
heart-wrenching in her role of the declining mum, and Sigourney Weaver
is also excellent as the po-faced but grief-stricken grandmother. Liam
Neeson probably didn't add much by getting dressed up in the mo-cap
suit for the tree scenes, but his voice is just perfect as the wise old
sage.

The only criticism of what is an absorbing and intelligent script is
the introduction of Conor's Dad, played by Toby Kebbell (Dr Doom from
"The Fantastic 4"), who is literally flown in from LA on a flying visit
but whose role is a little superfluous to the plot. 

This is exactly what "The BFG" should have been but wasn't. It draws on
a number of potential influences including "Mary Poppins"/"Saving Mr
Banks" and "ET". Wise, clever and a thing of beauty from beginning to
end, this is a treat for movie-goers and a highly recommended watch.
However, if you have lost someone to "the Big C" be aware that this
film could be highly traumatic for you..... or highly cathartic: as I'm
not a psychiatrist, I'm really not that sure! Also, if you are of the
blubbing kind, take LOTS of tissues: the film features the best use of
a digital clock since "Groundhog Day" and if you are not reduced to
tears by that scene you are certifiably not human. 

(For the graphical version of this review, please check out http://bob-
the-movie-man.com).
<|_=00=_|>
When I first walk into theater, I was not expecting much of this. Yeah,
the first moments were so cliché I thought this would just be a
mediocre movie at best. But after the movie, everything changed, and
this became one of the best movies I've seen in years The director use
beautifully rendered CGI to deliver the emotions of a struggling young
boy coping with reality. It was already a hard concept that few movie
successfully delivered, and yet he make so many people I know broke
down in tears. Moreover, he also make use of the visual to express the
incredibly complicated yet meaningful plot of the movie, constantly
changing between fantasy and reality, truth and lies, acceptance and
the growing of a boy into adulthood. The main actor while only a young
man has already show signs of greatness, you can only wonder if he had
already gone through all of this. He also actually took the time to
developed each character, making the audiences attach to each and
everyone of them. Which is why the ending was even more dramatic and
sad for many of us And the soundtrack, oh man, the soundtrack just hit
me where it really feels, this is probably the best part of this movie.
Whether it's total silence for contemplation of characters or full- on
orchestral work for the climax or the sad violin, man, they totally
nailed it.
<|_=00=_|>
Been quite long since the last time I wrote something about anything,
but I guess this one deserves a bit more words than others.

Every once in a while you might watch something that absorbed you
completely and got you thinking about it. Not because it's perfect but
because it touched you personally.

A Monster Calls tells a story about a boy named Conor who has to cope
with his mom's illness while going through his adolescence. Sounds like
a typical coming-of-age story, but it's not. Bayona has created one of
a kind, exquisite, complex and profound story for all ages while at the
same time didn't forget to look gorgeous (I'd totally buy their
watercolor artworks) and well-acted. The most impressive part of the
movie for me wasn't the technicality but the emotion and imagination
involved while creating this.

But at the end of the day, Bayona won me over simply by reminding us
all that sometimes it's when you hold something closest to you that
you're finally able to let it go.
<|_=00=_|>
A scary looking tree in the middle of a graveyard haunts the dreams of
a little boy, Conor, who already has enough troubles while awake. A
mother (Felicity Jones) with terminal cancer, bullies, absent father,
dictatorial grandma (Sigourney Weaver) and now a threatening monster
(Liam Neeson) to visit him at night; poor Conor does not have a lot
going for him. On the plus side, the monster has only three stories to
tell, yet when finished he insists that Conor tell a story of his own
that reveals the truths in his heart. The monster's stories touch upon
themes gnawing at Conor; the good and bad in every person, the
consequences of actions and an invisible man who becomes more invisible
by being seen. Still Conor refuses to acknowledge the truths. "You
don't know me," he shouts "these stories are not real!" The monster
then lays down the law, "I know everything about you, now speak the
truth or die!"

A Monster Calls includes some amazing visual effects, fantastic scenes
and brilliant dialogue. The film explores in compelling and thrilling
ways how fantasy combines with reality, how people deal with their
fears (for better and worse) and the tremendous power of stories. The
actors are convincing and captivating and Neeson's voice is
mesmerizing. You'd rob a bank if his voice told you to. Animation is
used to illustrate the monster's stories. A Monster Calls is based on a
novel by Patrick Ness. Seen at the 2016 Toronto International Film
Festival.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of J.A. Bayona's previous work "The Impossible", I had fairly
high expectations for this and to say that I am astonished would be an
understatement. "A Monster Calls" is based on the book that Patrick
Ness published in 2011. After this breathtaking adventure I assure you,
You will be inclined to read the book. As this is an adventure that
builds on your emotions and thrives on your imagination. Conner is a
young man that is trying to cope with the fact that his mother who is
diagnosed with a terminal illness isn't long for this world. But as his
mind races with fears and his imagination takes hold, he creates a
creature that would give adults nightmares, But as he realizes the
creature is friendly, He grows close to the "monster".

This is one of those movies that must be seen in theaters, mainly
because it's two hours of escape from reality, where you can turn the
page back, to a time where your imagination used to run wild. A time
when, your biggest responsibilities were picking up your socks. In
other words, a time when you were really free.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the novel of the same name by Patrick Ness, A Monster Calls is
one of the most emotionally powerful films I've seen in a long time.
Directed by J. A. Bayona, this is a film you'll want to be making sure
you have a pack of tissues ready for. 

Conor O'Malley (Lewis MacDougall) lives at home with his terminally ill
mother (Felicity Jones). Bullied relentlessly at school on a daily
basis and with no friends, Lewis finds himself spending most of the
free time he does have helping his mother.

One night, Conor encounters a monster (Liam Neeson) in the form of a
giant yew tree. With the help of the monster, Conor learns a number of
valuable life lessons, as well as facing the nightmarish reality he
knows will come soon enough.

Reports of A Monster Calls causing audiences to flood theatres with
tears during the festival circuit have been well documented however,
even they couldn't prepare me for J. A. Bayona's stunningly beautiful
film. The warning of emotional distress was even there for all to see
as the classification certificate appeared on screen prior to the film.

This is an incredibly moving story, depressing for the most part
however, thanks to the fantasy elements of the story and the
relationship Lewis has with the monster, it can be strangely uplifting
at times. The film packs one hell of an emotional punch towards the end
but it doesn't just spring it on the audience because you can sense
that is exactly where it's going from the very beginning.

The performances of Felicity Jones, Sigourney Weaver and Toby Kebbell
are all good but there is no debating here that the film ultimately
belongs to the young Lewis MacDougall, who manages to deliver a
performance that would make you think he's been acting for years, when
this is in fact only his second film. MacDougall really makes you
empathise with Conor and his performance in the final stages of the
film is sensational.

The visuals deserve a special mention as well, the monster in
particular brought to life quite brilliantly through special effects
and a gruff vocal performance from Liam Neeson. They go hand- in-hand
with Bayona's visionary style as a director to make A Monster Calls a
must-see film.
<|_=00=_|>
A Monster Calls is the rare movie geared toward a younger demographic
which refuses to pull an emotional punch. The movie explicitly states
that the protagonist, Connor O'Malley, is "too old to be a kid and too
young to be a man". The introductory tagline is the perfect way to
relay the film's tone to the audience. From the brutally honest acting
to the gorgeously animated "stories", A Monster Calls allows raw
emotion to emanate from the experience. Magic on the screen happens due
to the unique specificity of our hurt hero. The fantastical elements
found in a typical family movie organically merge with the painful
reality of adulthood. For example, a fight will begin building up in
Connor and the anger will call out the monster. The monster is never a
simple vicarious outlet for the young adult. Instead, the monster is a
well-executed manifestation of perceived guilt towards a deeper truth.
Liam Neeson's monster revels in the humanity of the moment while also
holding a magnifying glass up to it. Life continues to get worse for
Connor and each appearance leads to a gradual slip of harsh reality.
Refreshingly, A Monster Calls never hides that uncovering important
personal insight is a painful process. The climax makes up for one of
the most touching revelatory moments in modern cinema. The value of the
film is revealed in how both children and adults in the audience gain a
better understanding of the inherently personal nature of grief. The
way we deal with a loss can come across as something else entirely for
ourselves. A wide release of the film will hopefully begin to kindle in
an audience a desire for introspective cinema. In a sense, specific
scenarios are able to paradoxically tap into a universally human truth.
Movies like A Monster Calls show a better alternative to the next
soulless generic blockbuster movie.
<|_=00=_|>
As someone who had read the book and really liked it, I found the movie
as compelling and it excels at additions that are not in the novel such
as the last scene which happened after the ending of the book. However,
they also removed some good parts from the book, but were offset by
visuals and score and the spot on performances of the characters
especially Lewis MacDougall (Conor) who nailed his role in the movie.
He sure knows how to cry. And that needs pointing out as a lot of kids
in movies are sometimes annoying and difficult to watch. Felicity Jones
(The Theory of Everything) and Sigourney Weaver (Aliens) who were both
Academy Award Best Actress nominees were as good as anyone would expect
them to be. And Liam Neeson's voice was the perfect choice for the
monster's. Haunting, cold, deep, and soothing. Also, the other thing I
found striking was how the book played out as a movie. Aside from a few
differences (the adds and minuses), almost everything else is as what
the book is. Impactful scenes as how they were narrated and readers
imagine them to be and dialogue and life lessons as how they were said
in the book were same as in the movie. If you have read and liked the
book, then watch this. If you have not, watch it still, as long as you
have a heart and know what you're getting into, chances are you'll like
this gem of a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The traces of crayon and markers on paper will tell you a lot of thing
you need to know about the child that drew it. You'd be surprised by
how much a drawing of a horse or a sloppy house can tell what any kid
would like. I remember during the third grade, my teacher noted several
sketches I've done of space aliens and flying pizzas invading over an
unnamed city. She actually asked if this was supposed to be about a
fear of meeting new people and by going back to a slice of cheese
pizza, I was ignoring new things. I only said that I liked aliens and
pizza.

As I've said, drawings may not always say a lot, but they do something.
It depends on the person and the emotions their going through. I can
only interpret that my crude sketch only said that I was board and
would rather make up something weird to pass the time. My friend too
did his own drawings, but his were a lot darker. Whenever I asked, he
simply said, "their just cool", despite that their darker imagery
frightened me. It would be several years later when I found out that
his father had passed away. Perhaps A Monster Calls reflects perfectly
well what my friend went through.

Twelve-year-old Conner O'Malley (played by Lewis MacDougall) loves his
mother and does his best to care for her, given her terminal illness
and his determination to see her get better. His mother Lizzie (played
by Felicity Jones) has told her son several stories and encouraged his
artistic talent. His grandmother (played by Sigourney Weaver) also does
her best to tend to her daughter and grandson, even though Conner see's
her as something of an unsympathetic witch. On top of that, Conner is
also the target of a bully.

One evening at the strike of 12:07, he sees a giant, tree-like creature
rise out of a church graveyard and comes to the boy's house. The
monster (voiced by Liam Neeson) tells Conner that he'll tell him three
stories and that when the time comes, a fourth must be given in return.
Though Conner see's this creature in a reoccurring nightmare, he shows
no fear, probably due to his early maturity. In conjunction with the
Monster's visits, Conner's grandmother and father (played by Toby
Kebbell) come to realize that Lizzie may not make it much longer.
Conner allows the monster to tell him the stories, with the hope that
his mother can be saved. 

When I was watching A Monster Calls, I was surprised by how much it
made me think about Where The Wild Things Are. Not because their
similar movies, but because their both family oriented movies that feel
very mature and adult. This is what I like about A Monster Calls. Like
a lot of nightmares one would have, the visions that the child has of
the monster (which is cool looking, though he looks similar to Groot
from Guardians of the Galaxy) connect incredibly well to the events
that he's going through. It's a master class of great screen writing
and editing.

A Monster Calls will defiantly feel heavy to a lot of kids that are
going to see this. Their going find themselves watching something sad,
but I hope that parents see this as important. Lewis MacDougall manages
to carry a lot of the heavy emotions that the story requires of him and
pulls off a performance that's better then a lot of adult actors. As an
audience member, I wanted to see where his story was going to go and
was sad to see it end. You know a movie is good when your sad that it
ended.

I'll give this ten sketches of the monster out of ten. I can't stress
with how beautiful this movie is. It's full of story that should help a
lot of people going through with someone's terminal illness or their
own. I can only say that this is geared towards older kids (probably
over the age of ten would be best) and I doubt that they won't get
something out of this. See if A Monster Calls is worthy of your life
story and check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
Robbie K back again with another review. This time, as you can read
from the site, we cover A Monster Calls, another novel based movie that
may have flown under the radar for most of you viewers. Many reviews
are calling it an unforgettable adventure and a new masterpiece for the
ages, but the question always remains if the advertisements are true.
So, let's dig up these roots and uncover the mystery of the tree
monster as we review the latest film. 

LIKES:  The Acting  The Emotional Story  The Beautiful Artwork

A Monster Calls has many good elements about it, but the first like is
the acting of both CGI and realistic characters. Lewis McDougall leads
the way as Conor, and plays the isolated child with the weight of the
world on his shoulder fantastically, especially in regards to the way
he looks lost in his mind. Felicity Jones impresses me as well as the
caring mother going through some very trying times. I can't tell how
much is the look and how much is her ability portray suffering, but the
woman's abilities continue to impress me. And Liam Neeson as the
monster is a welcome addition, as his rugged voice is a perfect match
for the design of the creature that somehow is filled with so much
wisdom (hello flora version of Asland). 

Solid acting is a good start, but the story was even more captivating
to me. A Monster Calls' plot is an emotional forest, filled to the brim
with tear jerking sequences that will leave many faces wet. For me, it
was because many of these problems are relatable, and were presented in
that theatrical manner (e.g. using a powerful music score) that hits
you from all fronts. And as the tale progresses, the suspense only
continues to build and bring you into the story. But this isn't just
necessarily a movie centered on entertaining you with drama, but once
more tries to teach you lessons as the relationship between boy and
monster begins to form. The tales that the Monster brings out are prime
lessons in the error of perception, the folly of judgement, and the
importance of empathy. These lessons aren't just randomly thrown in,
but go along with the main story and help build to the conclusion. 

But my favorite aspect, as well as many reviewers', is the artwork of
the movie. The real- life scenes contain beautiful settings, alongside
the efficient use of filters to help add some subtle emotion to the
scenes. Yeah, I know nothing special, right? Heck even the monster,
despite how well animated and designed he is doesn't hit the super
unique animation. However, what is impressive is the art styles used to
portray the monster's lessons. Two of the tales use different
animations styles to visualize the moral lessons, using brilliant
colors, broad strokes, and warped figures to add a haunted twist to the
normal fairy tales. The well-timed breaks from the mundane real life
visuals helps add that whimsical side to the story and help reenergize
the audience in this otherwise exhausting movie. 

DISLIKES:  Incredibly Sad Movie  Predictable Ending You don't want to
see coming  Would have Liked the Third Story to Have the animation It
is hard to find fault in this movie, because the movie is edited so
well and feels like a visualization of a well-developed book. However,
one big thing is the depressing cloud that looms over the entire movie.
We all know movies that depress us, but most have those ray of hope
moments that break the clouds of dismay. Not the case in this film.
Despite some of the more colorful experiences shown in the trailers, A
Monster Calls is not the fun loving, animated adventure you might think
it is. It's a very sad film, and there are few moments to help distract
you from what is to come. Yes, there is a massively predictable ending
and one you wish wasn't the case. I can't say much more, but the ending
(while adding suspense and tying things together) is something that
teases at the back of your mind and further plays hacky sack with your
emotions. 

A final, albeit minor dislike, is that I would have liked a third art
style for the final story. While the third tale is very well done, it
does not have the same art theme the others do. I would have loved for
them to finish with that same creativity, in a manner that mirrors the
theme of the lesson. Again, in the grand scheme it doesn't matter, but
that third style would have been a welcome addition to an already
beautiful movie. 

The VERDICT

A Monster Calls is the first film to make me tear up in my years of
doing reviews. It's stunning example of the visual prowess of art, that
is well crafted to tell a story that will pull at many heart strings.
However, be warned that this movie is not your typical animated monster
meets boy adventure tale, but one that is meant to teach us some rather
important, albeit darker, lessons about life. Is it worth a trip to the
theater? I think so because of the visual styles and the roller coaster
ride of feelings this movie will generate. If you can't find the time
though then hit this one on Redbox when you can. 

My scores are:

Drama/Fantasy: 9.0 Movie Overall: 8.0
