
I knew I was in for a good music movie when the first song gave me
chills.

I went into this movie expecting lots of songs and gags, and they are
there, but I didn't expect to start caring about the characters and
their stories. SING brings together a talented cast and writers for a
movie that transcends some of the animated movies out there. The whole
family loved it so feel free to bring anyone from 5 on up. Even the
younger ones may enjoy it when it's available at home.

Every voice actor delivers and the animators nailed it. The pacing and
directing are also very well done. In fact, I could have done with even
more of the "auditions" at the beginning.
<|_=00=_|>
We saw Sing at a free preview organized by the makers and AMC. I really
enjoyed watching the movie with my kids. I appreciate the fact that the
makers did not resort to toilet humor to generate laughs. The
entertainment was clean. There were no unnecessary sexual references.

I like kids movies that inspire and Sing managed to do that. It
encouraged kids to get over their fears and try against all odds. 

All the characters were lovable and unique in their personalities.
Movie also had some very good music. Length of the movie was just fine
for kids. My kids sat through the whole movie and did not get bored or
restless till the end. Everybody in the theater seemed to have a good
time. Nice feel good movie to watch with the kids. Go for it.
<|_=00=_|>
I have just seen Sing with Hubby and two 7 year old's we all thought it
was absolutely brilliant. It is rare for us all agree we all enjoyed a
film. In fact this is the only one this year.

The music was first class lots of heads rocking to the beat, it had a
good variety of music and I am even considering getting the soundtrack.

Rosita Pig was my favourite character and I thought Reece Witherspoon
had an amazing voice though really all of them were good singers.

If you are looking to start the New Year off (as due for release in
January 2017) I cannot recommend going to see this film enough as "fun
for all the family".
<|_=00=_|>
We just finished seeing "SING", and it is undeniably effervescent and
will make you leave your cares in the cinema and burst with youthful
glee as you witness the effect of the performances on the little
children (and some adults), and the happiness emoted from their
actions. IF that doesn't make you want to see this movie...you probably
shouldn't, for it will possess you with a spirit of joy that you'll
have to later explain why your body was moving the way it just did.
This is a great Family Movie that everyone will enjoy, for young and
old, 8 to 80, blind, crippled or crazy...this is a must see Holiday
Treat!
<|_=00=_|>
This is the third computer-animated movie in a row that features actual
singing by the characters after Trolls and Moana. The title basically
means just about every character is singing something because it's
about a singing contest being produced because the producer wants
something that brings the people to his theatre, not like those
previous shows that didn't do much for his career. Seems like all
genres of music from various decades is represented here. My movie
theatre-working friend was especially enamored with the gorilla singing
a song associated with his favorite singer, Elton John. This movie does
show the struggles of putting on a show and possible disasters that
happen when risks are taken. I really don't want to reveal any more so
I'll just say that me and my friend highly recommend Sing.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie not expecting very much. I had recently seen
Zootopia and Pets, both animated movies set in worlds full of solely
animals, and had similar expectations. Sing, however, had much more of
a plot than I had expected. The animals go through some real issues and
struggles faced by people who own small businesses or businesses
related to fine arts. This is a good movie to take the kids to as it is
animated, full of songs, and family friendly in its humor. The
outstanding cast full of big names in the must industry makes the movie
more inviting to parents as well. Overall, this movie was worth the
watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I got a chance to view "Sing" at a early Pre-Screening and it was an
absolute blast. Starring the film was an all star cast, too many to
name and they all did a spectacular job singing and acting, the main
star that gave me goosebumps singing was Tori Kelly, she can sing the
house down. The movie was a feel good movie and it had things for both
Kids and the Adults to enjoy. Me and the audience laughed throughout
and enjoyed the film, we even clapped when the end credits rolled. This
by far to me beats "Secret Life of Pets", I thought "Secret Life of
Pets" was an okay film but I was so disappointed. I Highly recommend
everyone to see "Sing" when it releases in theaters December 21st.
<|_=00=_|>
The twists are predictable, the scenes are unlogic, 5.5/10, can't be
any higher.

But...wait, why would it be this? Sure those are the thoughts in my
mind, but why hands are shaking, why there are jellyfishes swimming in
my eyes? Although there is the most clich√©d routine, and the most
nonsensical plots, but with the earnest production and the performance
with the true heart of every filmmaker, animator and voice actor behind
the scene, there is a film provided to us, beyond compare. As a
foreigner, I think those maybe the one reason why the US is great, the
children in the auditorium are cheered for the roles, with the audience
in the film together, when the film about ends, and then the adults are
cheered with children, too. I think after years, when those children
grew up, there must be someone who will always remember the night
he/she had been planted a seed in the heart, named DREAM. This film is
similar to La La Land, but still different. On is the love story for
adults, but another one is the modern fairy tale for young and old. The
only thing there are same is Dream, the eternal topic of human being. 1
point for Dream, and 1 point for cheering audience in the auditorium.
7.5/10 highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Besides Disney & Pixar, Illumination Entertainment has been on
something of an animation roll as of late, ever since 2010's
'Despicable Me'. Despite, most of their films, not being hits with
critics, their movies continue to make mad cash. Sadly, their newest
movie 'Sing' is one of their weakest. Directed & written by Garth
Jennings and co-directed by Christophe Lourdelet, the film tells the
story of a group of anthropomorphic animals such under-appreciated pig
mama Rosita (Voiced by Reese Witherspoon); the gentle son of a gorilla
crime boss, Johnny (Voiced by Taron Egerton), punk-rocker porcupine Ash
(Voiced by Scarlett Johansson), arrogant mouse street performer, Mike
(Voiced by Seth MacFarlane) and shy elephant, teenager Meena (Voiced by
Tori Kelly), who has the pipes but not the confidence, all entering a
singing competition, hosted by an ambitious theater-owning koala Buster
Moon (Voiced by Matthew McConaughey), who needs a hit show to save his
beloved theater from foreclosure. Without spoiling the movie, too much,
I have to say, the way, they introduce all these characters in the
beginning of the film, was very awkward. The quick fast jump
transitions was just too much. It seem, early second that it was
moving, without giving enough time to establish, who they truly are. I
really didn't like it. The film pacing was all over the place. Another
problem with this movie is how many songs, were feature in this film.
80 songs ranging from the 1940s to 2010's is way too much for a jukebox
musical. Because of this, the film's music felt more like an endless
amount of swiping through Pandora than a great use of storytelling
device. Plus, of the many, many pop songs used in this family film's
soundtrack, there are a few that are rather explicitly not
kid-friendly, including "Butterfly" by Crazy Town, which is subtly,
about cunnilingus, and "Anaconda" by Nicki Minaj, which is explicitly
about having intercourse. So that was weird. Honestly, the movie could
had work better, if they allow a few songs to sink in, throughout the
film. Instead, it felt more like white noise, for most of the 110
minute film, until the final act. Despite that, I do like the last bit
of the movie, where the songs do come to characterization the revealing
thoughts and feelings of a given character. For example, 'Shake it off'
by singer, Taylor Swift, show Rosita's story arc, as she wants to prove
to her family what a talented singer she is. Another is "I'm Still
Standing" from music artist, Elton John is about someone who was under
a negative influence, and who managed to break out of it and stand
strong without it. A perfect fit to Johnny's relationship with his
father. The same, can be, with 'Set it All Free' by songwriter, David
Bassett, 'Don't You worry about a thing' by Stevie Wonder and 'My Way'
by singer, Paul Anka. It reflects about their live, and having no
regrets on how they lived it. All amazing performances from all the
voice actors, even if the Seth MacFarlane one seem the most generic in
how much, he sings it, outside from this film. Still, if I had to cut
one, it would be, his, since it didn't seem like his Mike character had
a personality arch to be nicer. He is a rat in the beginning, and
still, a rodent in the end. All he manage to do, is waste screen time.
However, I can praise the other actors in the roles, they were given.
Each one of them, made it, their own, despite some of their cartoon
animal counterpart having some characteristic stereotypes that can be
view as racism like having black gorillas as violent thugs or sexism,
like one character being ignored by her husband until dressing up in a
promiscuous cat suit, trigger him to like her. In my opinion, it wasn't
too jarring as it was in Disney version of talking animal kingdom,
2016's 'Zootopia' with its gender, socioeconomic status, and ethnicity
thoughts of prejudices and discrimination. While, 'Zootopia' is by far,
the better film, since it was thought-provoking and had better jokes. I
thought 'Sing' did have some moments that really pull you in. The movie
did had some humor that was a bit interesting. Great use of
foreshadowing, and like I said before, the characters backstory is what
makes this movie and their drive to win the money, unique. Yet, I do
have to say, I hate how the film abandoned the competition part, toward
the third act. It lesser the pressures of them, trying to achieve their
goals. I would love to see, some of them, fail at it and one had
success, like any other competition show. Yes, it would had be, risky,
but it would be more like it is in life and would show that not
everybody can have success. In my opinion, the ending was a little too
child-friendly. After all, in true-life, not everything can be patch up
with music. If anything, solo success destroy family units, not bring
them, closer to together. Overall: Due to a few missteps, 'Sing' is not
worth the price of admission. Still, it worth checking out as a rental.
It's a fun movie, but it falls short of being great.
<|_=00=_|>
So no joke, I bought the soundtrack while the credits were rolling for
the car... for me the Mom! I was so utterly impressed, never got bored
and thought it was a kiddie movie, never not wanting to hear the next
song. Who ever chose the songs they perform is genius. I still cannot
get over the vocals of all of the actors, they were incredible.
Jennifer Hudson's rendition of Golden Slumbers is soul lifting. We just
saw t after the Christmas rush in 3D, and that was the best way to
really appreciate it. If your tween wants to see it, this is one you as
a parent will love.‚ù§ I can't get over "Eddie the Eagle" as "Mike", his
vocals are beyond incredible.
