
Either way, they're all too innocuous to truly hate. Lowest common
denominator in every way: tons of lame jokes, forceful heartfelt
moments that aren't earned, and random acts of cuteness. Carell
deserves so much better than just being given a tired, silly accent
like the worst of Mike Myers.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a common curse with the third movie in most trilogies (assuming we
don't count Minions.) The third movie is usually where it starts to
wear off. Such is the case for Despicable Me 3. The movie is average.
That's it. It's not great, it's not bad, it's just average. The story
is that Balthazar Bratt (Trey Parker), former 80s child actor turned
super villain has eluded capture from Gru (Steve Carell) and Lucy Wilde
(Kristen Wiig) for too long, and the new chief of the Anti Villain
League isn't happy about it and fires them. Eager to get their jobs
back Gru receives word that he has a long lost twin brother named Dru
(Carell also) who invites him to his home in a country known as
Freedonia (the same country that Groucho Marx ran in Duck Soup). Dru
attempts to get Gru back into villainy. Gru manages to resist the urge
for a whole 5 minutes. The master plan is to now steal a diamond from
Bratt and hopefully be readmitted to the Anti Villain League. Along the
way we have numerous sub plots involving Lucy trying to be a good mom,
the Minions fed up with lack of crime and going to jail (it's never
specified how that happens), Agnes (Nev Scharrel) wanting to find a
unicorn after hearing a legend, Bratt wanting to destroy Hollywood in
revenge for rejecting him as a teenager, and the relationship between
Gru and Dru. In all honesty I think there's more plots than The Dark
Knight Rises. This is really the biggest problem. A Despicable Me movie
really doesn't need this many plot threads. Most of the time the movie
just jumps around to each one and it comes off as being unfocused. Kids
will probable be fine with it and it is enjoyable enough, but I don't
think it's as good as the other three.
<|_=00=_|>
I do reckon that at 31 years - i am not the target audience of this
movie. There are of course movies that address both, children and
adults alike - but this is not one of those.

The plot was ... pretty stupid. Not stupid in a comedic way - but
stupid in a "that makes no sense" way. There was no notable character
progression, the minions were a snooze and the newly introduced
characters made no sense. Shedding light on Grus past might have been
interesting, especially since there was the scene of a young Gru in the
minions movie - but instead we got a kind of family reunion with little
to no impact at all. So they just got to know each other - and they
like each other .. well, good. Thats it.

The villain - the most important part of such a movie - was rather
weak, too for my taste. Memorable in design and behaviour, but rather
weak in terms of motivation and threat. (considering Gru had to deal
with a genius villain that was trying to steal the moon in the first
movie ... the villain in the 3rd was just a substantial step down)

Jokes fell mostly flat - but there weren't many for an adult audience.

I d say - a nice movie for kids, but in contrast to some of the classic
pixar movies ... not for adults.
<|_=00=_|>
The first Despicable Me I really enjoyed, the second one was okay but
not that great, the Minions one was mediocre, and this third one is
iffy. Despicable Me has also had shorts and I saw a few of them like
the House Makeover one, the Training Wheels one, and the one that
played before Secret Life of Pets. The Training Wheels one was okay,
the House Makeover one was pretty good, but the one that played before
Secret Life of Pets was sub-par.

I think that they need to stop milking this franchise because
Despicable Me is just getting worse and worse with each movie and short
and from the cliffhanger in the end, I could tell that there's probably
going to be a fourth one about Dru's career as a villain. And what's
going to happen? Dru and maybe even Gru are going to meet their dad who
they haven't seen in a long time and maybe bring him into the family?
Are the girls going to find out that their biological parents abandoned
them and leave Gru to live with their parents? And what if they make a
T.V. series?

None of the characters I thought were very good and are shadows of
their former selves. The new characters, Evil Bratt is obvious and Dru
is an unnecessary character, he caused trouble for Gru and doesn't even
know how to drive yet he has a car. Lucy is annoying with how
aggressive and hyper she acts and an unnecessary mom and teammate of
Gru and she and Gru are burdening a 6-year-old little girl with stuff
about work. Which I think is too much for a 6 year old to comprehend.
Not to mention, the kids act too precocious now. Like how could a
6-year-old girl know how to cook soup? She also sold her unicorn, well,
Despicable Me is dead now. Isn't she too young to be even thinking
about businesses anyway? And she adopts a goat? Why would she adopt a
wild animal? And the minions are now more annoying trouble-makers than
ever.

There are too many popular songs in there. But I really loved the end
credits song. This movie is kind of like a rehash of Despicable Me 1,
2, and Minions. A villain causes destruction to the town towards the
end, the girls get kidnapped by the villain, and a boy falls in love
with Margo and even talks about getting engaged with her even though
they're too young. And he also does embarrassing things such as
smooching all over her.

Edith's voice actor sounded a bit too old for her age.

There are a few good things to say about this film, the action scenes
are alright, there were some heart-warming moments between Gru and Dru
and I like how they help each other, and I also like how they got three
different stories going on, one about Lucy and the girls, one about the
Minions, and one about Gru and Dru being spies. Agnes's new voice actor
did pretty good on her character and I think she sounds kind of like
Elsie Fischer, but I still miss Elsie Fischer's sweet, babyish voice
but she no longer has that voice.

This movie was clich√©d, silly, cartoonish, predictable, slow, and
therefore boring. I barely laughed at even one part, the humor was
lowbrow and the dialogue foolish. And I can probably guess what the
fourth one is going to be about and that there may be a fifth one.
<|_=00=_|>
As far as disposable sequels to kids films, Despicable Me 3 is pretty
much on par with Cars 3 (2017). It's not a particularly memorable film
nor can it really hold its own against something like The LEGO Batman
Movie (2017) but at least it's not unpleasant. In-fact in may ways
Despicable Me 3 is better than the original in that it improves its
look-and-feel and provides a decent foil for once in the form of Trey
Parker's Balthazar Bratt. Of course it's to the detriment of neutering
the refreshing mean-spirited-ness of the original, but hey, at least
you still got those Minions am I right? Despicable Me 3 catches Gru
(Carell) and newly minted wife Lucy (Wiig) trying and failing to secure
the world's largest diamond from the hands of Bratt our flamboyant 80's
themed villain. Fired by the new head of the Anti-Villain League
(Slate), Gru and Lucy discover he has a twin brother named Dru (also
Carell) whom their parents separated at birth. With nothing on their
plate, Gru, Lucy and the girls (Cosgrove, Gaier and Scharrel), travel
to the Mediterranean coasts of Freedonia to meet Dru.

When the family lands in Freedonia, the movie descends into a series of
fun but thematically incongruous vignettes. Gru bonds with his brother
over Dru's desire to become a villain, Lucy fails, succeeds and fails
again to become a mother figure to the three girls, Agnes, the youngest
of the three tries to capture a unicorn, Balthazar Bratt sees his plans
for world domination come to near-fruition and the Minions...well let's
just say they have their own thing going as well.

About half of all this busy, busy, business works at least as far as
furthering the plot. The fact that none of the film's insanity really
coalesces into a compelling whole, only makes the film feel more like a
mediocre sitcom episode than an actual movie. Yet as far as inspired
moments of slapstick, Despicable Me 3 supplies a little bit more than
is to be expected. One highlight involves Gru and Dru driving around
the Freedonian countryside in a golden-plated mean machine while police
follow while riding literal pigs. Parents will find these comedic bits
more amusing than funny but the kids, the kids will be rolling up and
down the aisles.

And isn't that what this movie is ultimately about? To provide
entertainment to children? While I don't necessarily condone families
watching kid's films for their own sake (and this one in particular is
all over the map as far as messaging), there's not really all that much
to object about here. Despicable Me 3 is at its core a thoughtless but
entertaining jumble of sights, sounds and goofiness. Thankfully unlike
your racist aunt, Illumination Entertainment has not used the Minions
for nefarious purposes...at least not yet.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought Despicable Me 1 and 2 were great fun, movies that you could
watch over and over every few months or so and still laugh. Despicable
Me 3 I hardly laughed at all, and can't see myself watching it again
anytime soon. That's not to say it wasn't fun. The Minions were kind of
funny as usual but the overall plot and script wasn't as witty and
charming. Mr. Gru is not really a good guy or villain in this one. The
interaction between him and his new found brother provided a few
laughs. His new wife tries hard in her new role as mother to Gru's
kids, maybe that could have been played up more. I've heard another
reviewer say this was an unnecessary sequel, and that's hard to
disagree with.
<|_=00=_|>
I just wanted to have some fun and a good movie like the first one.. It
keeps getting worse every part.. I thought that this part will make up
for the other one and the minions disaster.. Yet , No No I did not like
it at all. I Really liked the bad guy with his style and dancing all
around.. But at the end of the day it was boring.
<|_=00=_|>
Despicable Me 3

This movie was weighed down by a lot of problems, but before I get to
that I will say that I did not hate this film by any means, it's just
not very good.

Problems:

1. The whole "brother" concept is good, but it shouldn't have been set
up in this movie. It should have been set up in the first one, or the
end of the second at the latest.

2. This problem I refer to as "the politics of film," because the
studio did not acknowledge that they are going to far with this series.
The minions stole the show in the first one, however the studio kept
pushing it on audiences by over-commercializing them. They somehow
became the face of Illumination Studios, and they somehow managed to
get their own unnecessary origin story movie. Universal should've
stopped while they were ahead with the first Despicable Me. 

3. I do not like it when a series will reuse jokes, in this case the
"unicorn being so fluffy I'm going to die." It was funny in the first
one, but in this one it felt forced.

4. The villain, Balthazar Bratt, felt way too underdeveloped. He got
about four minutes of an origin, which resulted in vague motivations
and just another generic, one-off villain.

Overall: Save yourself from this mess
<|_=00=_|>
The previous installments nicely balanced the over-the-top tricks with
the plot, and somehow it was plausible in an imaginary sort of way.

But this one? It's as if the writers had the plot then later realized
they needed the tricks, and in they went, one by one, arbitrarily, with
no real imagination or thought. You can hear the director saying, "ok,
insert a trick here, then there, and there, then there." With a
90-minute run-time, there were actually five stories going on: the
brothers, the unicorn search, the minions' imprisonment, the engagement
segment (involving the oldest child, age 12!), and the Brat. Two are
eventually irrelevant and unresolved, while the other three meet in the
end, but in a forced "we have to write it this way or the movie has no
ending" sort of way.

The premise was interesting - long-lost twin brother wants to
resuscitate the family tradition of villainy vs. Gru's new home-bound
stability. But the execution was just mediocre, if that. Light laughs,
an LOL or two, but that's it.

The minions stole the show.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a big fan but this movie was totally uninspired and lacks the charm
and anarchistic humor of its predecessors completely. The story is
confused, several plot lines (like Ramsbottom, Dr. Nefario) remain open
or are illogical and sketchy (like the Minions' jail episode). I just
hope that the crew will regain its old performance, and that the
Minions will be back - YELLOW, please!
