
If reviews were to be believed, we would all think D'Movie was a film
about Nazis that clubbed baby seals to death. That's literally the
reception this movie has received; I haven't seen a single good one.
Even massive fans seem to have been bitterly disappointed with it. In
spite of this, I attended a screening of it this evening (with my
expectations lowered to subterranean levels, granted). 

Now, the series has never been a critical favourite. It has been slated
and dragged through the mud since its inception and to be fair, I can
see why. I'm a casual admirer of the series but it's very, very old
fashioned. So dated is the humour, it could pass for a BBC sitcom from
the 70's were it not for the HD format. Its brand of humour is also
very, well, cheap. Easy. Not that that's a bad thing... per say. It's
certainly still funny. It works mostly because it's too jovial to
dislike. The actors aren't great but they get the job done, and
O'Carrol is admittedly fantastic as Mrs. Brown. 

So, what happened D'Movie? The truth is, the big screen magnifies every
little flaw the series has. Small things that are forgivable or even
enjoyable in half-hour- interrupted-by-a-break format are downright
deal breaking in this longer, less digestible format. The acting is
showed up as being absolutely terrible, and the constant childish and
cheap humour that gives us a laugh on telly wears thin very quickly
here. The expanded scope of the plot also means that a lot of the
better, more subtle family related and situational humour from the
series is lost because it simply doesn't have a place here. Sure, there
are a few laughs but not many for a film this long, and many "jokes"
are simply embarrassing. One of the very worst is when O'Carrol loses
the wig and plays a "Chinese" man by squinting his eyes and speaking in
a clichéd and very stereotypical manner. That stops being funny by the
time people turn 10; what's it doing here, dragged on for a laborious
amount of time? 

This also highlights another problem from the series that gets
magnified here; the every so slight mean streak running through the
script. I'm not going to call them "racist" or "discriminatory",
because they're not, but such blatant use of stereotyping in place of
humor really pushes its luck in a film that already calls for
near-charity for it to be laughed at. If I was Russian or Chinese I'm
pretty sure I'd find this film offensive; for that matter, I am gay,
and watching I realized that the character Rory is a other embarrassing
stereotype milked aggressively for laughs, and to be honest it's almost
insulting. Don't get me wrong; humour riffing on stereotypes can be
great (which, to be fair, is done very well in the series), but here it
just wallows in it instead of creating comedy, and it feels plain mean,
which is an absolute pity when the few laughs it did get were actually
from the more good natured jokes. 

Other problems arise just from the sheer laziness from other facets of
production. The opening sequence is just abysmal, featuring the kind of
"dancing" that would be considered embarrassing in a village pantomime
(literally); a problem not helped by the fact it's repeated at the end
instead of a proper finale, like the brilliant sing song at the end of
one of the episodes on telly. The soundtrack is downright atrocious,
too, often with cliché orchestral cues when a joke is cracked, or
typical weepy music when something sad is happening. By the time one of
Westlife's dreadful ballads rolls around in one of the key scenes, you
may just need the sick bucket. 

So far I've slated the movie, and to be honest I could go on and on
because it's just an excruciatingly bad film. It really, really is an
absolute disaster; if this hadn't been a television series before this
was released, I probably would have given it a 1, honestly. But, as I
say up top, it's a generous 2. Why? Well,truth be told, one thing
shines through; it has a lot of spirit, which at times nearly (NEARLY)
makes up for all the flaws. As I said, Brendan is honest to god
fantastic as Mrs. Brown; nobody could play her better. The few laughs
the film does manage are enough to remind you how really funny the
series is, too, even though they show how bad the rest of the film is.
None of these things save this production though; with this script,
nothing could have. 

I feel like I've over-analyzed this film, but I don't think I have,
really. It simply doesn't work, and I've tried to root out the reasons
why. Many people might think that none of these things matter, well, I
say otherwise. Good film comedy runs like an engine, and this one has
too many small problems under the hood to really get going, eventually
just becoming one big problem. I've heard Mr. O'Carrol plans on making
a trilogy; let's hope next time (if there is one) he manages to weed
out the problems present here to make something closer in quality to
the series.
<|_=00=_|>
I really looked forward to seeing this. I love the TV show. Put simply
though, like so many great television comedies, it just doesn't work in
a full length movie. Of course there are funny (or at least mildly
amusing) moments, but just not enough of them to carry the rather
absurd plot. The solicitor's character and affliction had rich comedic
potential, but was wasted in style. Hopefully this disappointing effort
will not damage the reputation of what is a great success story. If you
get bored like I did, at least the last line gets the biggest laugh of
the whole thing (at least it did when I was there). However, that says
more about the quality of what has gone before than it does about that
moment.

Very poor.
<|_=00=_|>
Where do I begin?

I can forgive the dated "humour", I can forgive(well maybe not) the
racist blind ninja character (using herro instead of hello etc), I can
even forgive the totally ludicrous plot line (£96 in old money becomes
a debt of 4 million euro). 

These can be forgiven IF the film was funny. Sadly it just isn't. Well
that's not true, there was an outtake that made me smirk once, but
honestly this film is just plain awful!

I mean the grandad character is now a former IRA terrorist and they use
a plot line of planting a carbomb is supposed to be funny!

Brendan O'Carroll claimed Irish comedy is different to typical English
humour. Hence I watched this film and gave him the benefit of the
doubt. Now, maybe I'm biased, maybe I am spoiled by watching Father Ted
or IT Crowd or Black Books (all written by IRISH writers BTW), maybe I
am not the target audience. But this was just painful to watch.

To use his words for feck sake they didn't even have the Mrs Brown
Theme tune!

TBF there was a group in front of me who laughed throughout, but then
again, these same people thought it a good idea to come in late and
then shout where are we seated, and THEN shouting sorry for shouting!
If that is the target audience, then fair do.

I didn't expect much from this film, it failed to deliver on what I
expected.

Father Ted this is NOT.

Let's just say I wont be rushing out to get it on DVD!

AVOID LIKE THE FECKING PLAGUE!
<|_=00=_|>
I was super excited to see this movie, I loved all of the series and
often laughed until I had to run to the bathroom so when the news came
that the movie was coming out I booked tickets straight away. 

WELL...we have just returned from the cinema after leaving before the
film even ended. It's the biggest load of rubbish I've ever watched.
It's just doesn't work as a movie...everything I love about the series
just isn't in the film! I managed a few smirks in the hour that I sat
there for and that was a push...we stayed sat for the last half hour of
that hour in the hope that it would get better but it just didn't. Numb
bottoms all round for nothing!! 

That's 1 hour of my life I will never get back!! Very disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
So the titular character owes 3.8 million in taxes, and has to pay it
or her livelihood will be taken away.

That's the story. Other sub lots involve the Russian Mafia, Racism.
Blind Ninjas, Sexism, breaking the fourth wall on several occasions,
and then pretending to do an outtake halfway through the film, because
hey, a lot of the people who watch this abomination on TV wouldn't know
what good comedy was even if they were visited by The Spanish
Inquisition....

And truth be told, its terrible, from beginning to end, its
cringeworthy stuff, and as soon as the titular character turns over and
broke wind at the beginning, just confirmed the shameful, lazy writing
that this thing has.

The breaking of the fourth wall is awful, but the worse thing that this
film has, are the silly out takes that we get 'treated to' in the
second act, its clear that they are staged.

All in all, yes, it's made a shedload of money, but that doesn't mean
that many people liked it.

Come the end of the film, I saw Keith Duffy, and realised I wasn't
actually watching the film, I was just looking at the screen, bored
senseless.

Do not treat your 'mammy' to this, this Christmas, as all the
advertising will no doubt say.

A poisonous cash in, stopping people seeing something decent at the
cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
Words fail me, I honestly can not find the words to describe how poor
this movie is, I mean, where do I start? Poor acting, weak story, not
funny. very predictable. There was a time when Mrs Brown's boys was
funny, but only once. It has far outstayed it's welcome on the small
screen and if this movie is anything to go by the big screen too. 

This movie, in my opinion did not contain one thing that I found funny
and I think the whole Mrs Brown character is now well past its sell by
date.

The story itself is poorly executed and dragged out for far too long.
The acting is poor, very poor, and every scene is so predictable. It
has obviously got bad guys in the movie and surprise surprise they are
portrayed as Russian, how unoriginal and cliché is that? 

This movie could have been better with a bit more thought and
originality, it is almost as if they have taken a TV sketch and tried
to stretch it into a movie and failed miserably. There are too many
looks at camera, fine in the show, this doesn't work in a movie. They
even keep some out-takes in the movie, Why? It just is not funny. I
Think the main problem is that the writers and performers think they
are funnier than they actually are.

This is the sort of movie that should have gone straight to DVD. Expect
to see it in the bargain bucket in a store near you soon. Very VERY
poor movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Exactly what I had expected, a snapshot of a Dublin community,
difficult task portraying it to such a wide fan base. Great pictures of
Dublin, shown off in all its beauty, underneath the comedy a real
subject is being dealt with the developers have spent many years trying
to close it down, yet markets like it thrive in city's allover the
world. As always there is no hidden meaning and no punches pulled. To
those who complain about the language, do you walk around Dublin ? This
is reality in the areas portrayed. As for those who say some of it is
over the top ? The cinema is the place for over the top ! This is about
Dublin shot in Dublin with Dublin people, not a set in Pinewood or
Hollywood. A comedy played for laughs and succeeds. Well done Brendan I
would not expect less.
<|_=00=_|>
I have enjoyed the TV Show & live DVD's so I am not reviewing this as a
hater of the Mrs. Brown's Boys Franchise. I didn't see it in the cinema
but just bought the DVD to satisfy my curiosity. What I witnessed was
one of the worse attempts at a movie I have ever seen. It is unfunny &
an attempt at a plot to carry this for an hour and a half is invisible.
Even the reusing of old jokes which has been Brendan O'Carrolls
trademark for years couldn't lift this off the bottom of the septic
tank it sits in. Brendan himself is very sharp & very funny as a
comedian & in a live situation is hilarious. But he obviously wrote
down all the jokes he heard in school & dusts them off oh too often.
Only his sister Eilish who plays Winnie can claim she put in a decent
shift in this. Delivery of the weak punchlines was slow & poor
throughout & mistaking a Pakistani man for a Jamaican might be slightly
funny the first time. Blind Ninjas & O'Carrolls attempt at what I
assume was a Chinese man were embarrassing. We pretended to be Chinamen
in school Brendan... snap out of it! Brendan O'Carroll has taken this
recycling thing too far & whoever said in the trailer that 'it's the
funniest film this year' was either well paid or has only seen one film
this year! Avoid the movie but watch the live show.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a massive fan of the TV series and was really excited to hear that
a movie was being made. It had some highlights but overall it was major
disappointment. Sadly, much of the humour was very unoriginal or very
dated (reminded me of Les Dawson) or low brow stereotyping of the
Chinese and Russians that was so bad I actually cringed rather than
laughed. There is something wrong when the funniest bit was the
outtakes shown during the final titles.

I also found the sound track to be a bit over the top.

Guys you are better than this movie, the TV show proves this - maybe
the formula simply does not port well to movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Well... Were do I start?! £19.80 was the cost of 2 tickets and I can
safely say that it was stolen from me! I almost called the police today
after walking out 60 minutes in.

Me and my mum especially are fans of the TV show like everyone's saying
here on IMDb, but I can safely tell you reading this that we are far
from a fan of this movie! 

The story line is awful, the jokes are even worse (that's if you can
call them jokes at all). The acting is ropey at best, in fact for some
reason the acting is far far worse than the TV series, it's like
they've been replaced by robot versions whilst the actual actors have
gone on holiday.

This is simply a cash in on the Mrs Brown success from over the years!
Whatever you do DO NOT GO AND SEE THIS MOVIE! Save your money and use
the £20 for something far more amusing like buying £20's worth of
apples!
