
Apparently Hollywood is completely out of ideas. How else to explain
this film? You have a "retired" assassin/sniper/martial arts master who
is living a quiet life, and doesn't want to be called back into
service. A government agent/former friend/former enemy
blackmails/coerces him into returning to do some evil deeds, but he
will be killing evil doers/assassins/nasty government types so he can
stay a hero. Along comes a pretty girl that gets sucked into the plot,
they fall in love/have sex/exchange witty barbs, and before long her
life is in peril. The hero stabs/shoots/kicks/hangs/blows up and
otherwise creates mayhem, and no one else in his path can shoot, throw
a knife, or otherwise match his skills. Lots of stuff gets blown up and
lots of people get killed, and it all takes place in exotic locations.
The hero and the girl get together in the final scene.

What a waste!
<|_=00=_|>
The content is too non logical, Jason has no reason to scarify his life
for a 2 days met girl.

For short, this film is only for watching some action scenes. But even
with the action scene, it is a little bit affected when Jason kills
everyone without any considerable antagonistic. 

The role of the woman in this film is also funny, she has no reason to
come to his life :D 

I am a fan of Jason, but frankly, I am disappointed of this film.

I only rate it with 4/10.

Regards,
<|_=00=_|>
Well, this movie (not even sure if I can call it a movie) should
definitely get few Razzies. It's one of the silliest movies I have ever
seen. Don't even bother to watch it. It should only be watched if you
want to get the exact idea how NOT to write a script, direct a movie,
act in a movie and especially how NOT to cut the scenes and shots
together (it just feels like the whole post-production work was missed
or at least rushed). It's just absurd. It's so bad that you will
probably fell ashamed just watching it. The script is terrible. The
acting is distracting. The CGI is far from average. The movie just
feels cheap. I still don't understand how this even managed to get to
the process of filming.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of Jason's worse films. I think he's starting to do
"paycheck" movies. Some plot holes when he planned the assassinations
of the 3 men. The blueprints, the bombs, the escape equipment and the
perfect timing of everything. He must have shot and killed over 100
men! AND the guys he shot were terrible guards, bodyguards, elite
fighters as portrayed in this film. They couldn't fight, couldn't 'hit
the side of barn' and even Jessica got the better of a couple of them.
Also no chemistry between them, an unlikely pairing of of these
'high-paid' actors. I will not recommend this to anyone. The others I
liked were HOMEFRONT, CELLULAR, TRANSPORTER(1), and a film he did with
JLo.
<|_=00=_|>
I think that this is my first review on IMDb and till now I've
hesitated to to so. This movie turned that.

Mechanic: Resurrection is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.
Although line-up crew promised that this movie should, at least, be
worthy of spending some money, it turned out that this is not at all
true. 

The filming locations were really great and that's about it when it
gets to this movie. Bad acting (predominately by Alba and Lee Jones),
combined with unconvincing story line (superficiality of good and,
especially, bad characters) and mixed with non-imaginative CGI
sequences turned this film into my first 1-star movie on IMDb.

Luckily, I brought a phone with me so I could play some games during
this projection.
<|_=00=_|>
A Complete Package of Bad Action. whole movie doesn't make any sense ,
specially the action in this movie. I mean come on , one guy killed
100+ guy without a scratch. Whole action doesn't make any sense at all.

You ll be laughing at such bad action. He is swimming 100 miles to
catch a ship , and his gun never ever runs out of bullets. people
standing at front of him will not shoot him just watching him kill
everyone. there ll be a blast right infront of him he is not hurt while
other flown away a thousand mile.

Moreover jessica alba part made no sense at all. whole movie plot is
rubbish. i would not recommend you guys to watch this movie. Hollywood
really need some movie like Bourne. Which at least made some sense.
<|_=00=_|>
The one star because the first five minutes of the movie are good.
After that comes the cheesy and extremely predictable lines. You feel
like you're literally gonna throw up! Who eats those lines? I'm going
to make sure not to watch anything for this director again. He probably
said to himself I just want a stupid movie as people are too dumb to
notice! 

Jessica Alba was good and very hot. She was I think the least cheesy
element and the most talented in this awful excuse of a movie! It's
movies like this that justify piracy.

Oh, Jason does not get a single punch landed on him. Maybe one in the
whole movie. It's no surprise that he will battle scores of people, but
he is too perfect to get a scratch. Pahh... even Superman got some good
realistic beating last I saw...
<|_=00=_|>
What I really dislike about some reviews is that the reviewer wants a
"Gone With the Wind" epic blockbuster movie but goes to see a movie
that never promises to be one. This is an escapist movie, there are
going to be times that one needs to suspend belief. There are going to
be holes in the script (or perceived ones if you don't pay attention;
the script is the type where one needs to pay attention AND remember
things). Sometimes the special effects may not be as realistic as one
hopes (remember this is a movie not an documentary),but the editing is
tight The stunts can be crazy; for example he jumps upon on top of a
hang glider early on (it's telegraphed a couple of minutes prior to it
happening so this is not much of a "spoiler").

If you want an full-on action movie in which Statham "resurrects" (get
it?) his mechanic role you'll like the show, but if you want to see a
tight great script with nuance maybe you should just stay home.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is fun! Nothing more than that.

Jason Statham is back and though this is not a good movie, it is a fun
one and if you expected more than that you have no one else to blame
but yourself.

Ill rate the movie with my usual ratingssystem which contains rating a
few aspect of the movie with an overall total score at the end

Acting: 5/10. If Jason Statham looking stoically at everyone/everything
isn't enough, we got jessica alba being used as a sex symbol first and
an actress second. From Jason I can take it since it's his schtick, but
jessica... yikes!

Action: 7/10. Though there were some cool scenes in there, nothing is
original or great by any means. The action in the first the mechanic
was better choreographed than in here.

Cinematography: 8/10. it is actually well shot and the action that is
there is greatly shot with some wide angles here and there. 

Dialogue: 3/10. I think they didn't even make a screenplay/script. they
just went for it and came out with this. 

Overall: 5/10. Wouldn't recommend it. It is fun and if there's nothing
else in the cinemas i would recommend it while you were drunk and paid
the matin√©e price :)
<|_=00=_|>
Indubitably the worst movie since the Transporter sequel. Actually
makes "Suicide Squad" seem marginally less wrist-slittingly awful. The
plot (if you can call it that "i'm doing this for the children..."
*vom*) is possibly the worst thing to happen to mankind since Mr
Hitler's condom broke in 1888. There are more inconsistencies than a
Clinton/Trump debate, the acting is about as hideously poor as it gets
(Jessica Alba? I mean are you kidding me!?!) "Continuity" is not a word
or concept the filmmakers (if you can call them that) are familiar
with. "Resolution" also seems to have escaped them. There are odd
characters who appear, have a momentarily profound purpose (first 3
minutes of the movie) and then disappear with zero explanation. The
fight scenes are fairly well done - but the director (if you can call
him that) sacrificed his integrity for his blatant (very obvious) crush
on Statham who can't seem to get through a scene without being made to
take his top off. Alba, regrettably possessed of little else in the way
of talent - should have appeared topless instead and as often - at
least she would have lent something to the movie. And what idiot casts
Michelle Yeoh in a movie and doesn't have a single fight scene with her
in it? (perhaps one who had her fighting in it, but let her get cut
because she is a far superior action star and upstaged Statham??)

All in all, an absolute travesty of a movie. It is watchable once - but
only if are drunk, have been lobotomized, and the only other option is
dragging your genitalia down a street of broken glass and razor blades
while a bunch of lepers throw raw sewage at your wounds.
