
Tell me if you've seen this movie:

Princess wants to do something a parent doesn't want her to do. Close
friend/relative inspires her to be/do it anyway. Princess meets wacky
sidekick. Prince and wacky sidekick don't get along but are forced to
work together. Princess and wacky sidekick bond. Conflict happens and
princess and wacky sidekick part ways. Princess continues on. Wacky
sidekick shows up out of nowhere to help princess. Princess and wacky
sidekick win, become friends forever. Parent realizes they were wrong,
encourages princess to be/do whatever.

I felt like I already knew the plot to this film because I had seen it
100 times before. Why didn't I rate it lower? Because it's visually
stunning. The style of this film is very unique and I like the way they
wove Samoan artistic sense into it. I found myself mesmerized at the
water effects and the animals more than anything else.

Fun for kids, but nothing you haven't seen before.
<|_=00=_|>
Instant classic.

Easily ranks among the best from the Disney Studio, and a very worthy
successor to Mulan 1998, a similar story equally well done.

Oddly also seems to be best work ever from Dwayne Johnson, perhaps not
the first name I would have associated with "voice acting," but a star
turn nonetheless.

If you want to be picky -- which is the reviewer's job, after all --
the momentum slows a little at the top of the third act, but the
ultimate themes of redemption, forgiveness and self-discovery at the
finale are an absolute joy.

As they used to say, "for children of all ages."
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, what a great great movie! The visuals in this movie are
breathtaking!! They are so gorgeous! But, besides the visuals there is
such a heart and imagination and creativity to this movie. Moana is
such a likable, smart, and relatable person. the voice work for Moana
is so sweet and so good. The chemistry between Moana and Maui is so
great and so natural. The songs in this movie are so charming, catchy
and fun! But, How Far I'll Go is such an emotional song and it has such
heart...I dare say I like it a little more than Let It Go! The way
Moana sings it and you can feel it!! Wow, I just looved this movie and
it is great for kids and adults. I will always love it and I wanna see
it again!
<|_=00=_|>
2016 has been a particularly strong year for animated films. With the
likes of Zootopia, Finding Dory and Kubo & The Two Strings all vying
for best animated picture of the year, it seems Moana deserves to be
mentioned in the same breath as well. It's no fluke that out of the
four movies I just mentioned, 3 of them belong under the house of the
mouse.

Legend has it that demigod Maui stole a sacred stone, the heart of the
goddess Te Fiti. The lava demon confronted him and both the heart and
Maui were lost forever. Now, the world is slowly dying and someone must
find the heart and force Maui to put it back. But who is this chosen
one? It might be Moana, a Polynesian girl who is suppose to be taking
over as chief of her tribe, but longs to sail beyond the reef.
Featuring new comer Auli'i Carvalho as Moana and the most electrifying
man in sports entertainment, Dwayne 'The Rock" Johnson, as the demigod
Maui. 

It's not surprising that I found myself tapping my feet to the songs in
this film because Lin-Manuel Miranda, creator of Hamilton, shares his
talent with this film. I can easily see any one of the songs in this
piece going up for and winning Best Original Song, giving the man the O
in the prestigious PEGOT award circle. He currently has a Pulitzer,
Emmy, Tony and Grammy, among more. The songs here remind me of the
old-school Disney songs, easy to listen to, fun to play on repeat and
important to the story. At first, I felt it was a little too on the
nose with some of the lyrics, but eventually he won me over and I've
been listening to the soundtrack ever since. 

The film itself might lack some of the intricacies of plot heavy films
like Zootopia, but this journey story is entertaining and heartfelt.
The vibrant colours of the green islands and the blue sea help propel
the film above and beyond what some others films have to offer. The
animation takes a nice little turn for the creative when the characters
find themselves under the sea in a side villains lair. We are treated
with some bioluminescent sequences with another catchy tune not far
behind. 

Johnson is stellar as Maui, he seems completely comfortable in a voice
acting role and surprisingly has the chops to sing a tune. Newcomer
Auli'i Carvalho holds her own against a star like Johnson and she
really gives a strong voice to a driven female character. I applaud
that Disney didn't feel the need to shoehorn in a love story either.
This is a tale about self discovery, not some young woman needing to
find a man. Disney nods and respects their past while looking to the
future with Moana. Princesses no longer need to be the 'love' goal of a
man. 

Moana is a visually beautiful film with great songs and a strong female
lead character. There are some visually gags for the kids and a great
time for adults. Moana is a great film.
<|_=00=_|>
Henny's Movie Review: Moana (aka Vaiana)

In three words: A Fun Movie.

With Pixar dropping the ball lately it is good to see that Disney is
picking it up with great movies like, Tangled, Zootopia and now Moana.
Yes, they made a mediocre over-hyped movie named Frozen, read my
previous review for my thoughts about that movie. Moana really doesn't
disappoint it has a good pacing, a great cast, and it is BEAUTIFUL. I
could just leave my review at this and tell you to go and watch this
movie, but let's see "How Far I'll Go".

Moana is a story that takes place in Ancient Polynesia, when a curse
reaches the island Mata Nui a chieftain's daughter is determined to go
on a journey, to find a demigod named Maui in order to stop the curse.

Like most Disney movies this is a coming of age story. Moana is a
chieftain's daughter who is struggling with her love for her people and
her love for the ocean. She is determined and a strong character. It is
wonderful to see her grow and find herself throughout the movie. She is
voiced by Auli'I Cravaljo and it fits like a glove, perfect love her
accent. 

Moana is joined by a demigod named Maui. He starts out as an
egotistical/funny character but we quickly learn why and see him change
for the better. He is voiced by Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson and if you
know The Rock YOU know what to expect. You can never go wrong with The
Rock.

Other supporting characters were there to setup the plot and
exposition.

The music, as expected, was typically Disney which is a good thing
because I love Disney songs. After the movie you just can't get it out
of your head. All the scores were very good. It did the basics like
underscoring a scene but it also carried the movie for a huge part.

The three-act-structure. Moana has a great beginning, good middle, and
a great ending. Furthermore, the pacing of this movie is fast in a good
way. It doesn't hold on to a scene for too long and the movie knows
when to cut.

The cinematography was beautiful it really shows that the creators have
done their research. I love the bright colors and gorgeous sceneries.
It would appear that Disney's new approach to movie making is starting
to pay-off, by remaking their old animated movies into real-life and
mocking their old movies with their new 3d-animated movies, they are
breathing new life into their movies. As aforementioned in the
introduction Moana is a must see movie that won't disappoint.

I give this movie a 8.5.
<|_=00=_|>
So I watched Moana and boy, what a lazy movie it was. So full of good
ideas, squandered on a passable family movie. And yes, I know it's
Disney making a family movie, but it had all these ideas that would
make a great story if they were taken more seriously. The premise of
the movie is basically the whole world dying because of what someone
did and they treat this catastrophic event as an annoyance instead of
something actually serious.

The protagonist is Moana, an absolutely average Disney princess type of
character that wants to say no to being stuck in a life of safety and
luxury. We've seen it a thousand times by now, it's nothing that stands
out or even something logical in the long run since these types of
sheltered characters do not know anything about the outside world and
are in effect useless on their own.

And I have to point this out about her which is one of the many things
they didn't bother to clarify. Why is everybody fine with a girl being
their leader? Do they have gender equality on this otherwise primitive
island? If they do, they never showed it because any other leader we
see in their history was a guy. Combined with how she doesn't drown 1
minute after going into the sea with zero experience further proves
this movie is empowerment fantasy for little girls instead of a movie
where talent and intelligence matter.

But it's OK because the scriptwriter did his worst to plot armor her
from any possible danger. Because you see, the gods chose her to be the
one who restores the world, thus every time she falls in water, a
magical wave takes her on the boat. When she doubts her abilities, the
ghosts of her ancestors appear to motivate her. She is essentially a
plot device fully controlled by the plot instead of doing what she
wants and facing the repercussions of her mistakes.

And if you think calling her the chosen one properly excuses all the
nonsense, it doesn't because the gods make no sense. Why did they wait
a thousand years to do something about a disaster that has killed most
of the islands, and of all people why did they choose a little girl
with no skills or experience of the outside world? They never explain
it.

Do you know what else they didn't explain? Why her pet pig doesn't grow
up. She begins as a little girl and grows up to a teenager, but the
damn thing remains a piglet throughout the whole movie. Nobody in the
production team gave a damn.

The problems don't even stop there. The first thing she has to do is
find Maui, a demigod who has been stuck on a barren island for a
thousand years and is the only person who can save the world. He is
also the one who doomed it, so that makes sense. Also, for a guy who
spent a millennium all alone without something to eat or do on a tiny
island, he sure looked fine when she appeared. Disney went so safe and
lazy on him that he is nothing but a cool guy who does cool things and
has absolutely no sex drive, or psychological trauma for being left
alone all this time.

Accompanying them on their journey is a retarded chicken. It's the most
annoying comic relief animal I have seen in my life. It's not funny, it
causes more trouble than aid, and they never eat it although they never
seem to have enough food. How the hell did it get on the boat in the
first place? Moana didn't take it with her, it just appeared out of
nowhere in the secret cave nobody had been in for centuries. Nobody in
the production team gave a damn.

You probably think I am being too harsh on what is supposed to be a
dumb movie for kids, when I'm not since they clearly put effort in
fleshing out the characters in a way that demands from the story to be
better. Moana's father has a good reason for not letting her out in the
sea. Maui has a good reason for why he keeps going on adventures and
tries to impress the mortals. Even the villain of the movie has a
reason for why she is evil. These are really good stuff, and they are
ruined by the lazy script.

If the movie was like that in all its aspects, I wouldn't be bothered
by it. But when you set it up in a way that obviously raises the bar
like that, the disappointment multiplies when you treat your good ideas
like a joke. I can easily sum up all these problems as cheap
resolutions. Everything is fixed way too fast despite the problems
building up for countless years. The father changed his mind way too
fast and lets his daughter sail in the sea, Maui changed his mind and
returned to help her without even showing us how, and the goddess
forgives Maui instantly, despite causing her pain and suffering for a
thousand years, as well as wiping out the life of countless islands and
filling the sea with monsters. Hell, even the disease that was slowly
killing the islands went away in a few seconds despite spreading slowly
for centuries.

This movie is so freaking lazy. The pay-off is not worth the build-up,
its ideas are not used properly, and all you end up getting is a
generic Disney princess and a retarded chicken.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "Moana" tonight in the local movie theater. I have been wanting
to see it since Thanksgiving and expected the audience to be few. To my
amazement the cinema was almost full, and I can see why. "Moana" is a
fabulous movie--it will certainly leave you crying and smiling. I would
imagine most of the folks in the audience now have seen it 3 or 4
times. I served a number of years in the Army in Hawaii, so I was
attracted to the movie for that reason, and it was certainly a great
movie going experience. The animated graphics capture the magic and
beauty of Polynesia, the land and the ocean. And the story is a lot of
fun. Highly recommended for all ages.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been largely unimpressed with Disney's recent animated movies,
and many of my criticisms with them hold true with Moana. Looking back
at Wreck-It Ralph, Zootopia, and Frozen, it seems to me that Disney is
more interested in building a visually beautiful world than building a
great story. This is true with Moana. The animation is wonderful. The
world is gorgeous. The story, however, is rather dull and shallow.

The world is by design fairly sparse. There aren't a lot of characters
in this movie. So to make up for that, the story or the characters need
to be particularly compelling. Unfortunately, they aren't.

Disney breaks no new ground with Moana's story. That isn't new for
Disney, and to be fair, it isn't necessarily a bad thing. Many good
movies are just well-done re-imaginings of classic stories. But Moana
isn't even that. At every step of the way, I couldn't shake a feeling
that I'd seen it all before. The story never gripped me nor did it
leave me feeling fulfilled. Thus, the film just feels empty.

If either Moana or Maui were engaging characters, this movie could have
been good. Despite a good performance from Auli'i Cravalho, Moana had a
very small character arc. She was not that different a person at the
end of the film than she was at the beginning. For much of the film,
she had very little agency of her own. The plot seemed to carry her
along, rather than she driving the plot.

Maui did everything he could to cause the plot to stall. This could
have been great, as his antagonistic attempts to stop the main
character could have worked as the central conflict. But since Moana is
rarely actually trying to move the plot forward, the conflict just
seems to be her-vs-him, which is mildly interesting at best.

It's a shame. Moana could have been such a good movie. But it suffers
from the same failings as most recent Disney animated ventures:
wonderfully crafted world without a story worthy of that world.
<|_=00=_|>
From the opening lyrics to the final shot, Moana was a fun glimpse into
Polynesian life. Reminds me of Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron with
its depiction of tribal peoples, people who depend on the land and
environment to live. As one of the several catchy songs say, the island
gives them everything they need. No need to go beyond the reef.

I'm glad that Moana and Zootopia, Disney's two most recent feature
films, humorously refer to the archetypal Disney traits that appear in
film after film -- i.e. an animal sidekick, the heroine bursting into
song, following your dreams. Even if they do year after year, it never
gets old. (... Well, maybe a little bit. I'm actually jaded by the
happy ending trope in practically every work of film, literature, etc.
out there. But that's beside the point.) Even if you can predict the
ending of Moana, it's not quite what you expected. Disney has recently
been changing things up a bit and having creative endings. Frozen, for
example. Even if they weren't slightly creative, the story still enacts
the Disney magic -- the ability to inspire, motivate, uplift, and
ultimately enlighten further on mankind's communal desire to go beyond
the norm. You don't have to do something amazing to make a name for
yourself. It's not the hook that defines you, it's what you do that
defines you and makes you who you are. Just don't follow hard tradition
all the time. If someone says you can't achieve your dreams, he/she is
most likely right. HOWEVER. That's only true if you don't give it your
all. Those right now who are living their dreams gave it their all. If
it's something you really want, after all, then naturally you'll give
it the necessary effort and force of will. It won't be easy; life
wasn't meant to be easy.

It's not as amazing as Zootopia, but Moana is still a genuinely good
Disney movie. It has a superb single, a nice accompanying soundtrack,
great characters, sublime animation with crystal- clear attention to
detail, and wonderful themes and messages. I admit, I was expecting too
much from Moana after seeing Zootopia, which is probably why I give
Moana a 9. Zootopia hits the 10. If you haven't seen either one, I
recommend seeing Moana first.
<|_=00=_|>
Moana is a return to the classic Disney formula, the clichés and
characters ripped from a number of other animated films. However, the
pure beauty and skill of the production rises the old story into new
heights.

Following from the success of Zootropolis, Moana follows a more
traditional narrative we know and love; the princess who wishes for
something more and is whisked on a supernatural adventure. We know this
story so well yet Moana seems fresh and thrilling as if the plot was
innovative. Perhaps this is due to the Polynesian setting or the
morally ambiguous Maui, played perfectly by Dwayne Johnson, but most
likely it is it the simple magic of Disney  the wonder for both
children and adults has reached its peak with the perfection of the
classic formula. For once, the clichés make the film more enjoyable.
The quality of the animation helps too: it's clear they have reached
the pinnacle of blending realistic textures with stylised designs,
creating an aesthetic beauty that few other companies can match 
Disney have mastered water to the point it looks better animated than
in real life! Even the music has been perfected here, the annoying
catchiness of Frozen's tunes replaced by memorable but effective songs
that fit the culture and setting of our adventure. A childlike warmth
was awakened in me and many other adult members of the audience as the
film brought the emotional highs of the Disney renaissance without the
modern subversion of the classic tropes. While Moana sometimes
threatens this with pop culture references, the film thankfully keeps
to mostly traditional values and morals; a step above many children's
animated films released today.

Moana is good, old fashioned Disney magic; the traditional narrative
and morals updated with stellar animation and an awareness that's
effective but never overpowering enough to threaten the integrity of
the Disney formula.

SWEET

Visit https://sweetorsaltedmoviereviews.com/ for more.
