
Ragnarok is a neon-infused fantasy of what superhero films could look
like. There are gigantic monsters and beautiful women; zombie armies
and a big spooky dog; an evil witch and Jeff Goldblum, but this isn't
just a wacky movie made for the sake of wackiness. Ragnarok is the
child of confident filmmaking and understanding of what the Thor
franchise could have always been.

It takes a character that could have always been more and makes good on
that promise through competent storytelling and unbridled enthusiasm
for the world. This is exactly how we should be rewarded for their
fandom. There has never been a clearer example of throwing the entire
kitchen sink at a single title and having every single washer and
lug-nut of that porcelain mechanism land in perfect order than
Ragnarok.
<|_=00=_|>
Real or not this movie is one hell of a journey! The story is truly
serious and great, the fun moments are tons! The cinematography of
action scenes is just unrealistic good. Hela is one of the best MCU
villain so far! Cate Blanchett just killing in it in this role. She
looks sexy, furious and also got her arc in the movie, which is big
step, thinking about previous Thor movies. Hulk got so many epic
moments, that I just can't count. Valkyrie fits perfectly in the ne
"Revengers" team such a good actress. Loki is fan favourite again!
Every moment with Tom Hiddleston on screen is awesome. 

The movie it's so colourful and extraordinary, so you can watch it
again and again and again! The score of the movie, the intense scenes,
I mean I really love this movie. Is the best one among all of the three
Thor movies. Firstly because it feels like whole new story telling, and
secondly it's also one of the best MCU movies. 

Phase 3 of the Marvel Cinematic Universe gives us truly great movies,
and like a die hard MARVEL fan I appreciate that.

I will not reveal the plot or some big details of the movie, I want you
to enjoy yourself first, but you'll not be disappointed at all! Hela is
epic, Odin got his role in Ragnarok and there are some HUGE details
that'll lead to Infinity War and you'll lose your mind when you see
them. 

MINOR SPOILER: Someone is coming!
<|_=00=_|>
I know some people are worried about the humour on this movie.But they
used it excellently in this flick.This movie to me,is at least on the
same level with Guardians of the Galaxy 1.I mean both guardians and
Thor 3 made me laugh but never felt cringe or sensed any forced
jokes.There were also very intense and emotional moments in this Thor
movie.The fight sequences were so damn epic.When it comes to
action,this movie is close to Lord of the Rings 2.They did a good job
on reflecting the epicness of the Ragnarok event. The last trailer of
the movie got my attention.And I made one of the best decisions of my
life by watching it.

Hela,Valkyrie,Hulk,Thor,Loki,Grandmaster they all did pretty good
job.Especially Hela.She was so gorgeous and menacing at the same time.
Tessa Thompson kinda surprised me with her great performance btw.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie really exceeded my expectation.For me it is already the
second best comic book movie,right after Logan.

When I ve watched the both of the trailers,I ve thought Thor 3 has the
best trailer in this genre so far.Trailers really met with my
expectations.

You are gonna see epic showdowns just like the way you imagined.

Glad they didn't go on serious,boring mode like they did in Thor
2.Cause that movie bored me to death just like man of steel did.

Lastly,I just wanna say that Taika Watiti is pretty damn good director
who can make both good stories/plots and brilliant
jokes/references(just like deadpool's humor).

Thanks again for all the joy you gave me Marvel.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's get rid of this ""Aw,but the Ragnarok event in mythology has
great battles, foretold to ultimately result in the death of a number
of major figures (including the gods Odin, Thor, TÃ½r, Freyr, Heimdallr,
and Loki), the occurrence of various natural disasters"" nonsense.Cause
these movies don't have to stick to the myth or comic books,100%.They
should make changes for the sake of the movie.For instance,in NORSE
MYTH,fenrir(the giant dog) is the son of Loki and hela is also the
child of Loki. Now tell me how the hell Marvel is gonna show us Hela
and Fenrir as Loki's children??Loki is already a well established and
grounded character.At this point,I don't think any director/writer
could change Loki's past and introduce Fenrir and Hela,as Loki's kids
cause this would also bring tons of questions,plot holes and flaws.

For the sake of MCU continuity,Marvel HAD TO make changes in the Norse
Myth and in the comics.

The performances of the main cast are impressive and exceptional.This
movie also showed us the real "God of Thunder".For the first time he
was extremely powerful without his hammer.That lighting streaming all
over his body was pure awesomeness.

This movie is mostly targeted for everybody except for
joyless,moody,edgy people who are allergic to have fun and have a
boring,dull life. The CGI,fight scenes,epic battles,monsters etc..kinda
remind me LOTR.

Also,when I ve read the first reviews of this,some critics were
praising the soundtracks too.Wow..they were completely right this
movie's soundtrack list is on the same level with GotG 1 which was
perfect.

They finally gave hulk a personality.Even though he looks all
big,formidable and scary,he was kinda adorable every time he talks:).So
glad they finally made him talk.They really improved his CGI.The best
version of Hulk in MCU.The haircut made him better too.

Tessa Thompson surprised me with her performance.I still hear some
people complaining about the color of her skin.Cause she doesn't look
like Valkyrie in myth.Well,she doesn't have to actually.All I care
about is,her performance.And she did really good.

So put another major hit on MCU.They did it again.We have another MCU
movie approved by critics and audiences.They have successful track
record since 2008.

Unlike some people's petty,shallow claims,I don't think marvel is
always using the same formula again and again since 2008.Cause if they
fallowed that path since 2008,people wouldn't watch their movies for
the past 9 years.And they definitely couldn't create the
highest-grossing franchise of the planet without their major players
like Fantastic 4,X-men and Spider man.
<|_=00=_|>
"Fun" isn't a dirty word. It's also not a word that means "not art" or
"lacking drama." And the word "funny" likewise doesn't negate artistic
integrity or drama. Anyone who thinks these words are contrary to great
filmmaking or "true art" simply doesn't know what they're talking
about, and should probably stop trying to discuss cinema. Humor,
comedy, and satire not only have a long and glorious history in art and
expression, they are in fact very hard to do correctly. Writing comedy
and directing comedy is every bit as difficult, if not more so, than
straightforward drama in many ways. And to whatever extent fun and
comedy in films can also serve to purely entertain sometimes and to add
levity to situations, that's not bad nor limiting of art either.

It speaks to the absurdity of modern film debate and fandom that I even
need to point out such glaringly obvious, fundamental truths about
storytelling, movies, and art. But such is the nature of rabid, narrow
personal preference driven by bizarre loyalty to one publishing
corporation over another. Fandom is always -- generally speaking --
turning everything into "us versus them," but the extent to which it's
devolved into outrageously uninformed and limited claims of what is or
isn't "art," is a newer development and a sign of the shallowness of so
much of our modern discussion of cinema when it comes to genre
storytelling.

Thor: Ragnarok is fun, and it's also funny. It is also dramatic, it is
also terrific art, it is also the best Thor movie by a wide margin, and
it is one of the best Marvel sequels released so far.If those
statements or words bug you, then get over it and grow up
<|_=00=_|>
Thor: Ragnarok plunges headfirst into unbridled comedy and Waititi
gives his actors ample room to showcase their natural comedic talents,
especially Hemsworth and Blanchett, who are rarely seen having so much
fun. Jeff Goldblum, Karl Urban, and Ruffalo also shine, and Tessa
Thompson steals scenes as Valkyrie, a hard-drinking Asgardian bounty
hunter and former member of Odin's elite guard. Overall, the film
benefits from its director's distinct style and measured irreverence,
giving Thor a welcome boost of vitality.
<|_=00=_|>
Both missing in action since the end of Avengers: Age of Ultron, Thor
and Hulk could be seen as the forgotten children of the MCU, and when
they're two of the most popular characters with fans, that seems quite
criminal to me. The two haven't really been done justice in their solo
films yet, even though I'm a big fan of Thor, but with Taika Waititi on
board to direct Thor: Ragnarok, my expectations were sky high.

Imprisoned on the planet Sakaar, Thor (Chris Hemsworth) is pitted
against the Hulk (Mark Ruffalo), a former ally, in a gladiatorial duel
to determine whether he can travel back to Asgard and put a stop to
Hela (Cate Blanchett) and her apocalyptic tendencies toward Asgardian
civilisation.

It's testament to Marvel Studios that, even with Thor: Ragnarok being
the seventeenth film of the MCU, they can still produce work as unique
and exhilarating as they have here. Taika Waititi has worked wonders to
inject the Thor solo films with such vibrancy of colours and
characters, leading to Thor: Ragnarok becoming one of my favourite
entries into the MCU so far.

With Waititi involved, I was expecting this film to be funny however, I
was nowhere near prepared for just how funny it ended up being.
Seriously guys, there are plenty of moments that caused raucous
laughter from the audience, Thor and Hulk giving the Guardians of the
Galaxy a run for their money as the funniest MCU heroes. It's the
screenplay from Eric Pearson that should take most of the credit, along
with some of the brilliant new characters we're introduced to, Korg in
particular played by Waititi himself being one of the MCU's most
welcome additions.

The action, of which there is plenty, is driven by the retro vibes of
Mark Mothersbaugh's score and even Led Zeppelin's Immigrant Song, which
kicks the finale into overdrive particularly well. Javier
Aguirresarobe's cinematography combines seamlessly with the expectedly
stunning visual effects to create an almost psychedelic sense to the
action sequences.

Coming to the performances, Thor: Ragnarok features a strong ensemble
cast, pretty much all of them showing some fine comedy instincts at one
point in the film. Chris Hemsworth leads the film with such a confident
performance, matching both the cockiness and naivety of his character
to great effect. Much like people say Robert Downey Jr. is Tony Stark,
I just can't imagine anyone else playing Thor.

The supporting performances make this such a special film, Mark Ruffalo
doing some great work as the Hulk/Bruce Banner, keeping his place as
one of the best actors within the MCU. Tom Hiddleston returns to the
role of Loki and he's expectedly wicked, making it easy to see why he's
such a favourite with the fans, while MCU newcomer Tessa Thompson shows
plenty of potential to become a future fan favourite with a performance
full of grit and fire as Valkyrie. If you're a fan of Jeff Goldblum
then I'd just like to say you won't be disappointed with his
performance as Grandmaster, a character just as eccentric as Goldblum
himself.

I really liked Cate Blanchett as Hela, the villainess of the piece.
While she may succumb to the weak villain syndrome that plagues
superhero films these days, I felt that she suited the tone they were
aiming for with Thor: Ragnarok. If the heroes can have some fun, why
can't the villains have some as well?

Thor: Ragnarok finally gives Thor the solo film he deserves as one of
the original Avengers, full of laughs and plenty of heart, the road to
Avengers: Infinity War is nearly complete. I, for one, cannot wait.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know what s wrong with some people.This movie had nothing
against Europeans or Europe culture/history.Cause if it had,then this
wouldn't be approved by European critics.

Anyway,this movie and the Logan are the grand jewels of comic book
movies of this year.Logan was deep,emotional,brutal with intriguing
story.Thor is pure epicness,filled with action and the comedy side fits
perfectly to tone of the movie.From the trailer I thought Guardians of
the Galaxy will have lots of cringe jokes and cheesy moments but they
used the comedy perfectly.Same can be said for Thor 3 too.They managed
to have an impact on the audience with sentimental stuffs,at the same
time they made us laugh in right places. This movie has already gotten
itself carved to my memory.A memorable movie for me.Just like dark
knight,Logan and guardians of the galaxy 1.
<|_=00=_|>
I ve heard good things about Logan,spider man hc,guardians 2.And they
all turned out pretty good for me in different ways.

Logan is the first hero movie that made me cry.Yondu's death had a huge
emotional impact on me(even more than superman's death in BvS).That
huge twist about vulture being Liz's.And now this spectacular Thor
movie.

I am broke now,thanks to you marvel:).

After this movie,the hulk grew on me so much.Finally they gave him some
personality.Loki,Hela both were pretty good.Easter eggs were
surprising.

Both funny and emotional at the same time.They showed the devastating
events in Ragnarok pretty well.

You should definitely watch this movie in 3D,visuals were also amazing
