
One of the reasons that I write reviews of movies is that I hope to
turn people on to good movies that might otherwise fly under their
radar.

Such is my hope with Tina Fey's latest film WHISKEY TANGO FOXTROT - a
satirical view of the conflict in Afghanistan as seen through the eyes
of a novice International reporter (Fey). What starts out as a funny
and corny "fish out of water" movie, slowly morphs into a more serious
film about the addictive nature of constantly being in a warzone
situation.

Fey is perfectly cast as the central character - war correspondent Kim
Baker - who heads to an overseas assignment in Afghanistan to escape a
rather humdrum life. I was a little nervous, at first, as all the funny
parts that were in the trailer were in the first 1/2 hour of this film
- and Fey handles those with aplomb. She is a gifted comedienne, so
these scenes looked effortless for her. It is her transition to a more
serious reporter, addicted to the adrenaline of her job that Fey really
shines. I was impressed with her serious work in THIS IS WHERE I LEAVE
YOU and was anxious when it looked like her career regressed with last
December's SISTERS, but I'm happy to say she continues to grow as an
actress and she is strong in this part.

But, this movie is more than just Fey. She has a very strong supporting
cast around her - Martin Freeman as an Irish photographer, Margot
Robbie (who continues to grow as an actress) as a friend/journalist
competitor to Fey, Alfred Molina as an Afghanistan politician and
newcomer (at least to me) Christoper Abbott as Fey's interpreter - they
all bring something interesting to the table that helps this movie
along.

Special mention should be made of Billy Bob Thornton's General
Hollander - the US Commander in the region. While he does not have many
scenes in the movie, he brings a presence that is heads and shoulders
above everyone else when he is on screen. This fits well in this movie,
for the Commanding General in that region should be heads and shoulders
above the rest. He also gave me the best laugh in this movie (a joke I
will not spoil here).

This movie is much, much more than a simple rom-com or military comedy,
it is a Comedy/Drama that brings quite a bit of heart to it. I would
strongly encourage you to seek this one out, you'll be glad you did.

8 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to Bank (of Marquis)
<|_=00=_|>
W.T.F. is a movie which tries to belong in too many genres
simultaneously, including Comedy, Drama, Romance, War, Action,
Documentary, and has a statement to make about pretty much everything
including long-distance relationships, politics, professionalism,
cultural differences etc. etc.

Without excelling in any of that, it manages to be a well balanced
movie in the 110 minutes of its duration.

Tina Fey plays Kim Barker, a real person and an actual journalist, who
is dissatisfying from her career covering low profile stories, and
decides to go to Afghanistan as a war correspondent for a few months,
or so she thought...

The movie has a good structure. It starts as a comedy, something you
might expect because of the main actress, but soon the situations
become real and more dramatic.

The rest of the cast includes well known actors like Alfred Molina,
Billy Bob Thornton, Martin Freeman and Margot Robbie.

Overall: Don't expect a comedy because of Tina Fey. It starts like that
but it evolves to other genres really quick. It might not be a great
movie but it's not boring and you get something out of the inner
journey of the protagonist. How easy is to feel unnatural situations as
normal when you are a long way from home...
<|_=00=_|>
"Whiskey Tango Foxtrot" (2016 release; 111 min.) brings the story
("Based on a True Story" we are reminded) of Kim Baker (played by Tina
Fay.. As the movie opens, we see Baker in a heated argument with an
Afghani man. Then we go "Two Years Earlier", where Baker, looking
miserable, is in a team meeting for some news outfit. When told that
there is a shortage of TV journalists in Afghanistan, Baker does not
hesitate, and she volunteers, supposedly for a three month assignment.
Next thing, we see Baker arrive at the Kabul Airport. At this point we
are at most 10 minutes into the movie but to tell you more would spoil
your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it
all plays out.

Couple of comments: this movie is the big screen adaptation of the book
"The Taliban Shuffle: Strange Days in Afghanistan and Pakistan" by
real-life TV reporter Kim Barker (not sure why in the movie the names
becomes "Baker"). The movie is the latest for directing team Glenn
Ficarra and John Requa, who previously brought us "Crazy Stupid Love"
and "Focus", among others. Here, they, along with producers Lorne "SNL"
Michaels and Tina Fay herself, try to give us a glimpse of what it was
like for an inexperienced journalist to come to Afghanistan in 2003 and
report on the war. The early past of the movie shows us how Baker is
adjusting to her new environment, and what a shock to the system it is
indeed. Along the way we get to know fellow journalist Tanya
Vanderpoel, (played by up-and-coming Australian actress Margot Robbie
who also was in "Focus"). But the movie really takes off in the second
hour (no worries, I won't spoil). Incredibly, Google Movie Times bills
this as a 'comedy', and IMDb categorizes it as "Comedy, War". Please
note: this is NOT a comedy. If you are going to see this, expecting
many laugh-out-loud moments as only Tina Fey the comedian can bring
them you are going to be sorely disappointed and let down. Sure, there
are a few good chuckles early on as Baker/Fey adjusts to life in
Afghanistan, but that's it. "Whiskey Tango Foxtrot" is a journalistic
war drama, period. Not sure whether it is the producers or the studio
who are pushing this as a 'comedy' but that is a grave mistake. Besides
Fey and Robbie, there are many other fine performances, including Billy
Bob Thornton in a small role as a Marine Corps General. Last but bot
least, there is a lot of great music in the film, including the
original score, courtesy of Nick "DeVotchKa" Urata, and also a bunch of
song placements, such as Radiohead's "Nude", the National's "Green
Gloves" and Harry Nillson's "Without You", which I will never listen to
the same way again, seeing how it was used in this movie. Bottom line:
"Whiskey Tango Foxtrot" is a fine movie, shouldered by Tina Fey NOT
being funny.

"Whiskey Tango Foxtrot" was released nationwide this weekend. The
Sunday matin√©e screening where I saw this at here in Cincinnati was not
attended well, I am sad to report. Apparently it underperformed
elsewhere too, grossing only $7 million, far below expectations. That
is a darn shame. I blame both the (intentional or not) mislabeling of
this as a 'comedy' when it is nothing near that, and/or fatigue among
US audiences on seeing movies about the wars in Afghanistan or Iraq.
Regardless, I enjoyed "Whiskey Tango Foxtrot" a lot for what it is
(journalistic war drama). If you have a chance to catch this, be it in
theaters, on Amazon Instant Video or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray, I
strongly encourage you to do so as this movie deserves a bigger
audience. "Whiskey Tango Foxtrot" is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
<|_=00=_|>
I've just returned home from watching "Whiskey Tango Foxtrot." I don't
know how to begin to explain how intelligent, perfectly paced,
unpredictable and spot-on the film is. They got everything right.

Tina Fey as "Kim Baker" deserves an Oscar. This is by far her best
performance yet, but as with anything Tina Fey is attached to, you'll
see nothing but excellence. She is stunningly brilliant in her journey
from utterly green, sheltered, cube farming news writer to seasoned,
battered, weary war correspondent. Martin Freeman was equally
captivating as Scottish correspondent "Iain MacKelpie." His journey
from jaded journalist to the realization that this life, as "Kim" says,
"isn't normal", is just as engaging.

The supporting characters fully flesh out their roles becoming very
real characters that you know and understand, especially Christopher
Abbott as "Fahim Ahmadzai," the driver. His farewell scene with Ms. Fey
was beautifully touching and at the same time respectful of the
cultural divide between US and Afgan etiquette. Evan Jonigkeit won the
end of the film with his explanation of his own journey through losing
his legs. "You embrace the suck; you move the f*ck forward." Oorah,
Sir. 

Do not go into this film expecting a comedy. This is a dramatic
portrayal of life as a war correspondent, with intelligent humor
sprinkled throughout in equal measure to moments of terror. It hits
every nerve and every note. It's extraordinary all around.
<|_=00=_|>
I am impressed. This is one of the few films which has inspired me to
read the source material; the autobiography by the journalist Kim
Baker..

The film starts with comic moments as greenhorn middle-America Kim
Baker (Tina Fey) arrives in a war zone. Then, the film darkens as it
touches on the corruption of the expatriate community and the seduction
of war reporting.

Surprisingly, Tina Fey can act in a dramatic role. Being comic with a
straight face, facing danger, fending off romeos, and falling in love.
In the end, Kim Baker rediscovers herself and returns home.

The film deals superficially with the horror faced by Afghan civilians
and the root causes of the insurgency. However, this is the story of a
white woman in a foreign land.

Overall, the film was predictable but lightly touches the soul. Credit
to the editor for walking the difficult line between entertainment and
horror. The rest of the cast did a creditable job.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a fan of 30 Rock and The Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, so when Tina
Fey's name was attached to this movie I knew I wanted to see it. More
than that, knowing it was based on the memoirs of female war
correspondent meant I probably would have seen it anyway. I want to
read the book.

I've read the reviews here and agree with the many insightful positive
comments on the movie. There isn't much need to go into them in detail,
so I'll summarize what I liked most:

A chance to see what it's really like to be an embedded journalist in a
war zone, including the partying, but also the more realistic aspects,
such as dealing with network executives responding to public
indifference. 

I liked the focus on career rivalry/friendship between the two women.
As many other women, including Fey herself, have observed, usually
women are portrayed either as romantic rivals or enemies, while good
looking women especially are portrayed as empty headed or mean, and
marriage or man obsessed.

I liked the movie's emphasis on career as a source of satisfaction and
growth. The movie has been criticized because it allows Fey's character
a romantic/sexual interest. Somehow that ruins the movie's "integrity"
as a feminist story for some. Why aren't career women allowed
boyfriends? 

It felt more true to life than the type of rom-com relationship women
are usually allowed; either a one-night stand (that results in
hilarious pregnancy) or a happily ever after. 

The real triumph was her success at the end, which by the way neatly
turned the tables on the "damsel in distress" story. I loved it and it
was worth seeing for that alone. It's worth taking your tween or
princess obsessed daughter (who is old enough for mature content) to
see.

I enjoyed seeing Fey get a chance to grow as an actress, especially a
40-something one. They don't take her too far into drama or tragedy
territory; just enough.

The movie has gotten some criticism for using a Western actor,
Christian Abbot, to play an Afghan role, her translator and fixer. I
went in prepared to dislike that. However, I could see that they chose
to cast an actor with the range and depth they needed, rather than the
ethnicity. It works. The scene where he tells her why he no longer
wants to drive for her broke my heart. It was so sweet and his Fahim
had so much depth. 

So, all the things I liked. Here is the one thing I had a problem with:
The portrayal, or lack thereof, of Afghan women. This probably reflects
the book, which I haven't read. At the same time, they added other
aspects that weren't in the book. A real missed opportunity comes when
Kim is asked into a room full of village women. They take off their
veils. The camera stands behind them. We never see their faces. This
could have humanized these women in one shot and we miss it. She comes
out later to report what they told her, but we never hear them speak.
It was a real disappointment. If any group of people needed a voice in
this story, it was the women of Afghanistan.

But anyway, see it. I did, and I'm sure I'll watch it again.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so Tina Fey isn't actually a soldier, but she's not the horny bimbo
who gets busy with George Clooney in Three Kings either. Its now clear
that Tina Fey is one of the most multi-talented people in the
entertainment world, and this movie will go far toward solidifying her
reputation as a broad gauge polymath. Aside from everything else, its
clear she's a wonderful actor, and interestingly enough all the really
strong central characters in this movie are indeed women (as Tina
ruefully laments that she should have googled one particular
character.) Don't worry, there's plenty of blood and guts, bad
language, and techno porn for the teen-aged boys (why on earth would
anybody come to a R rated movie with WTF as the title and give it a bad
review for being shocked by language, sex, and violence. Don't however,
expect Margot Robbie or anyone else to replay Margot's Wolf of Wall
Street shenanigans.) Even the Anglo actors playing indigini (as we
called the locals in Viet nam) are wonderful. Well worth seeing, worth
owning.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. If I wasn't already a fan of Saturday Night Live's Tina Fey, I
sure am now. The same barbed wit is evident throughout Whiskey, Tengo
Foxtrot (military acronym for What the F***), but this isn't a skit.
Tina Fey portrays a nuanced character, a low level employee of a
network news department who makes an impulsive career move and ends up
as a war correspondent in Afghanistan. Doesn't sound entertaining? It
probably wouldn't be without the amazing touch Fey puts on her
character. While it's not a war movie, it certainly captures the
hopelessness of a culture doomed to perpetual war in the arm pit of the
world. Afghanistan ultimately gets dismissed as a place undeserving of
American military support, or even interest. The people shoot each
other and blow each other up in conflict over interpretations of their
medieval religion, and the movie correctly concludes "who cares"? But
the Americans and individual Afghanis touch each others lives in ways
that transcend cynicism. Fey and her Saturday Night Live co-producer
Lorne Michaels find humor and humanity in ways that make you root for
all the characters. The movie has no dull moments, and the pacing keeps
you in your seat. Like Afghanistan itself, there were potential
landmines of preachiness, boring politics and hopelessness...and WTF
avoids them all. There are subtle, brilliant, and stereotype breaking
supporting roles by Billy Bob Thornton, Alfred Molina, (Spiderman 2),
Margot Robbie (Wolf of Wall Street) and Martin Freeman (whose
correspondent character is as far from Bilbo Baggins as Kabul is from
New York.) Three cheers for Tina Fey, who manages to give us
entertainment and a smile while showing us how lucky we are to be
Americans. WTF could have been boring and preachy, and instead gives us
a feel good movie from the most unlikely place on earth.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure I've seen a military comedy since Sgt. Bilko. Or maybe it
was Operation Dumbo Drop. Nonetheless, this is a post-9/11 world. We
just don't have the same levity with war like we used to. Especially
when it comes to the war in Afghanistan. It's just something we don't
do. But maybe it's time. Apparently it's time.

And who better for the role than Tina Fey? She plays Kim Baker, an
American war correspondent who is sent to Afghanistan for a few months.
A few months turn into a few years and she becomes an expert on
everything Middle East. But as her life back in the states fades
further into the past, she's realizing that Afghanistan is now her new
home. We see her make this transition. It's one that's subtle, but felt
by the end.

Fey is perfect for the lead. I honestly can't imagine anyone else who
can just be as funny without being over-the-top and unrealistic. She
gives us her same quirky and witty humor, but the film carries a much
darker David Fincher-type of tone.

The jokes are never rapid fire, but always well-deserved. It makes the
film more real. And that realistic tone places us in the mindset of the
characters a bit easier.

Not too much about this film is clich√©. Predictable, maybe, but not
really clich√©. Perhaps you can credit the source material which it's
adapted from--an autobiographical novel entitled The Taliban Shuffle.

What I'm most impressed with is the balance of genre. Although it's a
military comedy, it never feels like the film is pushing or pulling for
one or the other. It's symbiotically both.

There's nothing obviously wrong with this film, in my opinion. I guess
it may have failed to solve that "so what?" question for me, but it's
still an entertaining watch. Maybe not one I would want to necessarily
own on DVD. But that's not to say I wouldn't watch it again.

Twizard Rating: 84
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is totally worth a prime-time ticket and a big popcorn. Then
get the DVD to show it to friends. No scenery/FX worth a BluRay. 

Some folks question changing the excellent title of the book on which
it is based to: WHISKEY, TANGO, FOXTROT. That phrase may not be as well
known as what it translates to ("What The Fsck,") but
wondering-then-figuring-it-out does get attention. The sales cycle
Attention/Interest/Desire/Action is thus well served.

I suspect that "Foxtrot/Fsck" in a movie title with Margot Robbie's
character admitting she knows she's a "15" in AfPak and then "usin' it"
in the trailers, sets an expectation that we'll see at least as much of
her as we did in say, "The Big Short" or "Wolf of Wallstreet" and that
sells tickets. Ms. Robbie has a lot of well deserved "body confidence,"
which by itself did not sell me a ticket - but it didn't hurt either.

Co-Producer Fey wants to tell tickets, yes, but she has told us a story
and she wants us to see it. A 5-star business decision, say I. 

The movie shows what happens when you mix a stone-age culture with
modern weapons from the POV of a New York Girl/Journalist. Neither book
or movie have suggestions on what to do about AfPac. It does however
help us understand what "The Graveyard of Empires" is all about.
