
The story of the Kray twins is a fascinating one, full of violence and
deceit. In Legend, that story isn't really taken to its full potential,
thanks to an unfortunately clunky structure despite brilliant
performances, good humour and violence.

Let's start with the best part of this film, that is Tom Hardy's
performances as Ronnie and Reggie Kray. The amazing special effects
make the dual show possible, but within minutes of the start here, you
completely forget that these two characters are played by the same man.

Hardy completely disappears into both men, with an unnerving but
humorous turn as the psychotic Ronnie, and a more understated but
powerful performance as Reggie, and that really deserves some praise.

What's more is that this film does make use of the very violent nature
of the history very well. As bloody as it is foul-mouthed, this isn't a
pleasant film to watch, but the level of violence does leave an
impression with regards to the Krays' crimes, making it seem all the
more real, and all the more frightening.

The big issue I have with this film, however, is that it's not an
exhilarating watch. Historically interesting it may be, but at over two
hours long, it's not something that will consistently entice you
throughout.

There are side plots that aren't picked up on enough, some characters
don't get the development they really deserve based on the size of
their role, and the plot takes a really long time to get going.

The disappointing thing is that Legend isn't a bad film in any way, nor
is it boring, but it gives you a sense of growing importance and
tension towards a hopefully climactic end, but it never comes as you
want it to.
<|_=00=_|>
Legend is a gripping movie, there's no doubt about it. Seeing Tom Hardy
on screen, whether he's playing Reggie, Ronald, or both, is absolutely
captivating. He owns the roles, and despite their identical looks you
feel that they're completely different people because of how well Hardy
portrays them. Reggie is sophisticated, methodical, affable; Ronnie is
impulsive, unpredictable, paranoid. As a vehicle for Tom Hardy's acting
chops, Legend is a home run. Unfortunately, that is where the positives
of the movie end.

The movie is tonally confused from scene to scene. It can be romantic
one minute, ultra-violent the next, then reserved and introspective the
minute after that. It's clunky writing; every time the movie begins to
gain momentum it trips on itself one way or another. Also, you really
don't care about any character other than the twins. I mean, thankfully
they're in just about every scene, but they're always surrounded by
faceless goons, or with a generic love interest, or no-name cops - not
fully fleshed out characters. This is in no way a fault of the actors
though. Christopher Eccleston is wasted yet again as a villain after
Thor: The Dark World. Here he's in an antihero role as the cop assigned
to the Kray's case, but his lines lack any form of personality. He does
what he can but he really has nothing to work with. Chazz Palminteri
makes an appearance for about 5 minutes total as his usual gangster
self, but in the end you're left scratching your head. So many
characters, so much potential, but the only thing holding the movie
together is Tom Hardy.

So as you can infer, Legend is worth a watch if you're a Tom Hardy fan.
He's scarily good in these roles, and two Tom Hardys are better than
one. For that reason alone I can't give this movie a lower score.
However, if you're looking for substance in a gangster biopic, you'll
have to look elsewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
The only good thing about this very average film is Tom Hardy's acting.
A lesser talented actor would have made it almost unwatchable. Short on
facts, the writers here have just invented or borrowed bits to try and
make the film sensational. It hasn't worked very well but at least
shows the 'Krays' were a couple of psychopathic violent lunatics whose
scrambled brains believed they were something special. Fact is, in this
film, the one bit of fact we do know was said by Chas Palmintiri as
Angelo Bruno the Philly mob boss, 'mobsters should keep a low profile'.
Ironically poor old Angelo Bruno got whacked by Nicky Scarfo, a
psychopath mafiosi who just like the 'Krays' loved being high profile
and just like the Krays was sentenced to die in prison.

The 'Krays' and most of the morons who worked for them were as thick as
planks. They were also seriously dangerous psychopathic paranoid,
disorganised nut cases who would use violence against anybody who got
in the way. Although the story seems to have forgotten a lot of well
recorded facts and many real people. Where was older brother Charlie
Kray and other faces who stood trial with them. Why so many of the main
60s true characters strangely left out of the film. The so called
shootout scene was way off the recorded known facts in the Kray's pub
the 'Carpenters Arms' and the only gunfight was in Catford at 'Mr
Smiths' drinking club in 1965 and neither of the Krays were there. In
this film, the 'Blind Beggar' pub had mysteriously moved from it's
prominent place on the busy east end Whitechapel Rd to what was some
unknown dark cobbled back street which was obviously a film set.
Frances Shea had left Reg Kray 8 months after the wedding in 1965, she
left diaries clarifying he was fairly useless as a man. The Triumph
Spitfire he buys her was a 1967 registered car some two years later.
Far from being respected by their 'firm' they were often looked upon a
a couple of morons. Albert Donahue's nicknames for the twins was 'Gert
and Daisy'. 

The film could have told interesting story if it had been researched
properly. The true story is far more interesting than this fiction.
None of it is anywhere near the truth. 

This film takes some of it's stories from an old book written by a toff
named John Pearson. The book was written forty plus years ago and I can
imagine they must have had a great time filling Pearson full of tall
stories. But this film surpasses the book in being so full of fiction
it becomes a spot the next mistake game. I am glad to say that the film
does not glorify the 'Krays', it shows them more as the pathetic,
paranoid, violent, brainless sick morons they were. Very lucky to have
gotten away with their crimes for so long. But the 50s and 60s were not
long after the war and London and times were a whole lot different. If
anyone out there aspires to admire these couple of lowlifes, they
seriously need a reality check up.

The Krays and the Richardson stories have been hijacked by so many
'silly b***icks' wannabe gangsters and money grabbing Kray wives it has
become a monumental joke. Much of it fuelled by old showbiz people like
Barbara Windsor for one who come up with' they were good boys who loved
their old Mum'. Many of the most evil despots in history loved their
Mothers. The 'Krays' were hated with a passion by many of the proper
old faces around London. The Krays were disorganised and out of
control. Only last week, Freddie Foreman, who is a wily old fox and was
smart enough to shun the limelight when he was active said had the
Krays not been arrested they were due to be 'ironed out'. Freddie
Foreman would know more about the Krays, the Richardsons and London's
underworld than is contained the many books about the 'Krays'. There
are many who were there who believe that it would have been better for
all of us if they had been ironed out and disappeared off of the face
of the earth in 1967. 

The 'Krays' do not deserve being called a legend. The bull***t has
created an industry out there for second rate books, films and
documentaries that will invent anything to get your money. This is just
another one. As a gangster movie, it isn't in the same league as
American films 'Godfather' 'Goodfellas' or 'Casino' from a Brit angle
it doesn't come close to 'The long Good Friday' or 'Sexy Beast'.
'Legend' is just another ordinary film made watchable by Tom Hardy's
performance.

Before you see this movie, watch Monty Python's 'Pirhana Bros' sketch
and take on the Krays, apart from being hilarious, the Pythons got it
far more right than the writers of 'Legend'.
<|_=00=_|>
When you walk into a film with not one but two leading performances by
Tom Hardy, who's back catalogue brings nothing but pleasure (apart from
This Means War, but we'll let that slide), you cant help but feel
disappointed when you leave the screen completely unaffected by what
you've just watched, and that was certainly how I felt hen it came to
Legend.

Labelled of course as a Kray twin biopic, it sadly offers no real
insight into their story and only grazes the top of their criminal
wrong doings. Instead it goes down the route of Reggie and Frances love
story, who is a character so under developed that the fragility her
brother so often reiterates, isn't actually explained what so ever and
prevents us from feeling anything towards her.

As for Hardy he plays both characters exceptionally well, particularly
Ronnie who's insanity and subsequent spontaneity provides some comic
relief to it all, however his psychological state is something that
could of been explored more thoroughly instead of labelling him as just
nuts. The supporting cast, including Taron Egerton and Christopher
Eccleston, also do a fine job though Ecclestone's police officer almost
gets ignored completely.

The violence is also few and far between but when it appears they
definitely don't hold back, providing entertaining scenes more
reminiscent of other crime dramas and what you would expect going in.
It shows us the real consequences of the lifestyle they live which does
its best to offset the fairly superficial painting of 60's London but
isn't enough and so the 'glossy' comments its been receiving are sadly
warranted.

In the end this adds up to a rather dull final product that wastes so
much potential in this genuinely interesting real life crime
partnership.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to this one; the trailers were great and,
whilst I'm not one of those who glamourise the Krays (they loved their
mums, would do anything for you blah blah blah), I do find it bizarrely
fascinating how the Krays/Richardsons have passed into London folklore.
Alas, it's a bit of a let down. Hardy throws himself into both roles,
by turns amusing and scary as Ronnie and compelling as a Reggie trying
to build an empire while struggling to keep his brother in check. But
he is let down by a clunky structure, it takes a while to get going and
subplots and characters are introduced and then discarded on a whim, an
awful Frances Kray voice-over, and an uneven script which can't quite
decide if it wants to be an American style gangster flick or tread the
same path as The Long Good Friday, Get Carter et al. And who let Duffy
and her nails down a blackboard voice back in? I really hoped we'd seen
the last of her after that crap Diet Coke ad. The club scenes aren't
quite working guys. I know, let's get Duffy, stuck a wig on her and she
can caterwaul her way through some 60s classics. High five!!!
<|_=00=_|>
The infamous Kray brothers  identical twins Reggie and Ronnie  are so
well known in British gangster history they've already had multiple
films made about them. What writer-director Brian Helgeland brings to
the table with his take on the notorious siblings is exuberant
storytelling, classy visual styling and a tour de force performance by
Tom Hardy as both twins. Hardy's dual turn is undeniably the
centrepiece of the movie. His Reggie is all charm and swagger, with
intelligence and ambition to boot, whilst the schizophrenic Ronnie is a
short-tempered ball of emotional bluster. Helgeland sensibly opts to
make Reggie the focus; of the two he is the more grounded one, a
gangster with lofty aspirations and the ability to interact on a human
level with those around him to make his goals a reality. There is also
genuine chemistry between Hardy (as Reggie) and Emily Browning, her
fragile yet strong-willed Frances able to draw out the romantic side of
Reggie, making his bursts of savagery all the more terrifying.
Sporadically placed throughout the (overlong) two hour plus runtime,
the bouts of violence bubble with intensity and exhilaration, often
uneasily enjoyable thanks to moments of levity sprinkled alongside
them. The 60s setting is capitalised on too, Dick Pope's elegant
photography giving proceedings a classical feel while Carter Burwell's
powerfully soulful score affects deeply at all the right times. There's
a sense of glorification here that mightn't sit well with some audience
members, however the Krays were adored in the East End and to deny the
glitzier parts of their life would be to deny what made them popular to
begin with. An exceptional crime picture with two outstanding
performances from one man, proving again that Hardy really is an
acting legend.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, hats off to the acting in this film - the cast did an
amazing job. 

I was worried when i saw the trailer but i gave it a chance and I'm so
glad i did. Truly a very well put together film, with a plot that
carried it through and several audience members including myself cried
at times. 

It showed the brothers in a different light. Allowing the audience to
love them, hate them, sympathise and empathise with them. Tom hardy
played both brothers excellently and hats off to the supporting actress
who played Frances Kray - she did a fantastic job. 

A film you could re-watch again and again, the atmosphere and the
wardrobe were key aspects of this film and the director delivered on
pulling out all the stops. The script was beautifully written. 

That said, I'd ask you to remember that this film is from one take on
the Krays, they were a complex pair and short of holding a séance, we
will never know what went on in their minds - this film is an
adaptation of an account. 

Judge it on what you see, don't waste time with trailers that spoil
parts for you. Buy a ticket and some popcorn and enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
The original film about the subject "The Krays" (1990) had Billie
Whitelaw as their mother and, somehow, she dominated my memory of the
film. Here the twins have a mother but she is, on the film, a distant
character and that's what I missed here. I missed their interaction.
She clearly had a massive influence in their characters but in Legend,
those pieces of the puzzle are unfortunately missing. But, Tom Hardy
compensates for any flaws. He is extraordinary, twice. The twins are
total individuals, totally two people. What they carry in common is a
sort of sexual danger, one explicitly the other implicitly but both as
powerful. They dare us to get close. Amazing performance(s)
<|_=00=_|>
Tom Hardy gives an all time great performance, double acting as both
the notorious Kray twins. The story is also quite comedic, clever and
full of some great thrilling scenes. One of the great things about this
film is you know what you're going to get, and it delivers, then some.
It's bloody on top of witty, charming and fun. Legend serves up one of
the great films of the year, whilst also being quite modest in its
approach. 

With Tom Hardy's already established terrific acting skills, Legend
becomes something more then a typical gangster crime film. It feels
invested into making the viewer content with its two hour runtime,
whilst always respecting. The award for best actor goes to Tom Hardy,
for sure.
<|_=00=_|>
Tom Hardy is a strange fish as an actor. Famous for being almost
incomprehensible in "The Dark Night Rises" and almost equally
incomprehensible in his co-starring role in "The Revenant", it's
sometimes really difficult to get a sense of his true abilities. Here
in "Legend" he gets to show what he's made of. Twice! Hardy plays both
roles in the story of Reggie and Ronnie Kray, the infamous gangsters
who ruled across large parts of London in the 1960's.

The film tells the story of the rise of the duo, focusing in particular
on the wooing by Reggie of Frances (Emily Browning), the local girl who
fell in love with and then married the hoodlum. Reggie and Ronnie 
whilst both undisputed 'bad uns'  were as different as chalk and
cheese. Reggie was all for semi-legitimizing the business, running
deals through his socialite-heavy clubs, and gaining higher-level cover
by inveigling his way into control of political contacts such as Lord
Boothby (a delightfully oily John Sessions).

In contrast, Ronnie was an out-and-out psychopath with a malfunctioning
'off' button and no button at all marked 'self-control'. An open
homosexual  something far more shocking in the '60s than it is today 
Ronnie was a medicated loose cannon that even Reggie had trouble
controlling. Gathering a posse of 'boys' around him (including
Kingsman's Taron Egerton) Ronnie blazes a trail of bloody violence
against rival gangs with little regard to the consequences. 

On the side of the law was Nipper Read ("Dr Who" re-booter Christopher
Ecclestone) as the dogged detective trying to find something  anything
 to pin on the brothers.

Hardy manages to convey each brothers' idiosyncrasies so well that you
quickly forget that this is the same actor playing both roles. It is
only in some of the more interactive scenes (such as a fight between
the two of them) that the illusion fails apart somewhat and where
acting twins would have made for more convincing footage (unfortunately
Jedward were unavailable!).

What makes Hardy's performance as Reggie particularly memorable is that
for much of the film - and against your better judgment - you end up
rooting for Reggie and wishing him to 'succeed'. (This is more by way
of comparison against Ronnie's truly abhorrent behavior than against
any absolute measure of 'good').

Browning is also compelling as the love-lost Frances, getting deeper
and deeper into a world she has no control over and having to act to
extremes of both love and fear. Also worthy of mention is the portrayal
by David Thewlis (Lupin from the Potter films) of the Kray's financial
adviser Leslie Payne: a man who knows he has the financial respect of
the twins (at least Reggie) but is always sailing a dangerous course
between kowtowing to them and criticizing their actions. 

Written and directed by Brian Helgeland ("Payback"), this is an
intelligent British thriller, reflecting a visceral view of the
criminal underworld of London in the '60's. Overall, its an enjoyable
watch that perhaps - Hardy aside - doesn't quite live up to its
potential. A note however for the sensitive viewer: this is a very
(very) violent film in places, and a couple of the scenes in particular
are hard to watch. 

(Please visit bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical version of this
review. Thanks.)
