
Very few directors have tapped the clown in Tom Cruise the way Doug
Liman has. He had directed Tom in Edge of Tomorrow which was humorous
and was set amidst a post-apocalyptic alien invasion. American Made is
just as humorous and is also set amidst an invasion of sorts except
this movie is a true story. Captain Barry Seal had the adventure of a
lifetime before falling prey to a monster of his own doing. But what an
adventure it might have been for this man to smuggle contraband into
and out of the States.

I felt Tom Cruise did a great job portraying the pilot in an extremely
light-hearted and funny way. Cruise is known for playing roles that
ooze oodles of dare-devilry. But most of those roles are of fictitious
characters. For once Tom plays a real man whose daring knew no bounds.
Captain Barry Seal was like a real-life Ethan Hunt. Hence I feel
casting Cruise as Seal was an extremely appropriate decision and should
help in filling Universal Studios Entertainment's coffers.

If you were awed after seeing the aerial sequences in Dunkirk, wait
until you have seen this film. The planes are subjected to go through
some intense acrobatics which will please you. If you were disappointed
with Cruise after watching The Mummy, I can assure you that you will
heave a sigh of relief after watching this film. The film's story is
not only engaging but also witty and hilarious. There are hardly any
stagnant moments so the probability of you getting bored is very low.

A very ironic thing about American Made is that in 1986 when Barry Seal
must have gone through whatever turmoil he did, a young Tom Cruise
played a pilot in Top Gun which released that year. Did he know he
would pay a real-life pilot who was very relevant during those days
almost 31 years later ?

Watch American Made . Don't watch it for Tom Cruise's stardom. Watch it
because you deserve to watch an entertaining and great film on the big
screen that coincidentally has a superstar playing the leading man. I
humbly apologize for the length of this post but sometimes I just can't
control myself from pouring my thoughts out
<|_=00=_|>
If you ask anyone to list the top 10 film actors, chance is that "Tom
Cruise" would make many people's lists. He's in everything isn't he?
 Well, actually, no. Looking at his IMDb history, he's only averaged
just over a movie per year for several years. I guess he's just
traditionally made a big impact with the films he's done. This all
rather changed in the last year with his offerings of the rather
lacklustre "Jack Reacher: Never Go Back" (FFF) and the pretty dreadful
"The Mummy" (Ff) as one of this summer's big blockbuster
disappointments. So Thomas Cruise Mapother IV was sorely in need of a
upward turn and fortunately "American Made" delivers in spades.

"Based on a True Story" this is a biopic on the life of Barry Seal, a
hot shot 'maverick' (pun intended) TWA pilot who gets drawn into a
bizarre but highly lucrative spiral of gun- and drug-running to and
from Central America at the behest of a CIA operative Monty Schafer
(Domhnall Gleeson). All this is completely mystifying to Barry's wife
Lucy (Sarah Wright) who is, at least not initially, allowed to be 'in'
on the covert activities.

The film is a roller-coaster ride of unbelievable action from beginning
to end. In the same manner as you might have thought "that SURELY can't
be true" when watching Spielberg's "Catch Me If You Can", this thought
constantly flits through your mind. At each turn Seal can't believe his
luck, and Cruise brilliantly portrays the wide-eyed astonishment
required. This is a role made for him. 

Also delivering his best performance in years is Domhnall Gleeson ("Ex
Machina", "Star Wars: The Force Awakens") as the CIA man with the
(whacky) plan. Large chunks of the film are powered by his manic grin.

As an actress, Sarah Wright is new to me but as well as being just
stunningly photogenic she works with Cruise really well (despite being
20 years his junior - not wanting to be ageist, but this is the second
Cruise film in a row I've pointed that out!)). Wright also gets my
honorary award for the best airplane sex scene this decade!

Written by Gary Spinelli (this being only his second feature) the
script is full of wit and panache and - while almost certainly (judging
from wiki) stretches the truth as far as Seal's cash-storage facilities
- never completely over-eggs the pudding. 

Doug Liman ("Jason Bourne", "Edge of Tomorrow") directs brilliantly,
giving space among the action for enough character development to make
you invest in what happens to the players. The 80's setting is lovingly
crafted with a garish colour-palette with well-chosen documentary video
inserts of Carter, Reagan, Oliver Stone, George Bush and others. It
also takes really chutzpah to direct a film that (unless I missed it)
had neither a title nor any credits until the end. 

The only vaguely negative view I had about this film is that it quietly
glosses over the huge pain, death and suffering that the smuggled drugs
will be causing to thousands of Americans under the covers. And this
mildly guilty thought lingers with you after the lights come up to
slightly - just slightly - take the edge off the fun.   Stylish,
thrilling, moving and enormously funny in places, this is action cinema
at its best. A must see film. 

(For the full graphical review of the film please visit http://bob-
the- movie-man.com. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
I have to Confess i am not a huge fan of Tom Cruise, but when i got a
chance to go to an Advanced Press Screening of his latest movie with my
Brother, who works in the press i reluctantly gave it a shot. I surely
had a pleasant surprise in store, with the movie being a blast from
start to finish and had a ton of retro 80's music. After the disaster
that's THE MUMMY, Tom Cruise returns to form with some of his best work
in the last 10 years outside the Mission Impossible franchise. Its a
story based on the real life events of Barry Seal, a pilot who plays a
crucial role in the Iran-Contra Affair, here we see Tom Cruise return
to familiar territory where he makes us fall in love with a Semi-good
guy who does bad things but we are not quite sure and root for him,
because Tom Cruise makes us fall in love with him with his 1000 Watt
Smile. The supporting cast was serviceable but make no mistake this is
a Tom Cruise vehicle purely designed to show everyone he still has it
!!!
<|_=00=_|>
While we all eagerly await the release of the recently announced Top
Gun sequel, Tom Cruise's latest slice of polished Hollywood
entertainment American Made, allows us all to see what it's like when
Maverick becomes a little naughty in his retirement from flying fighter
jets, verbally sparring with Iceman and making out with Kelly McGillis.

Re-teaming with his Edge of Tomorrow director Doug Liman, American Made
is a relentlessly energized and seriously fun examination of the true
life story of American Airlines pilot Barry Seal, who gave up his life
as an everyday pilot to not only become a CIA recruited pilot
delivering messages, guns and various other treats to South American
contacts, but a drug runner for the Pablo Escobar Columbian drug trade,
which makes for a wild ride that would be utterly unbelievable were it
not in fact based on truth.

Fair warning to all, Liman and his leading man are totally uninterested
in giving a dry history lesson of Seal's exploits, as American Made
sees the two Hollywood heavy hitters instead turn their trajectory
towards delivering a heightened and often over the top examination of
these events and with Liman bringing his Bourne Identity and Edge of
Tomorrow expertise with him to the event and with Cruise seemingly
having the most fun his had in years, the risk to go for something
different other than an awards baiting or dialogue heavy expose has
paid off hugely, with American Made easily becoming one of the year's
most purely fun and enjoyable rides.

At almost 60 years of age you'd be rightfully thinking it's about time
that Cruise take a seat back and enjoy a more quiet time in his career
but the unstoppable and enthusiastic leading man is having a blast here
bringing Seal to life.

In almost every scene of the film, Cruise and Liman continue on with
their rapport that they built in Edge of Tomorrow and Liman should be
commended for bringing out Cruise's natural talents for comedy and when
mixed with his easy going charisma that has made him such a beloved
acting figure, Seal offers Cruise one of his best and most interesting
roles in his long and varied career, no small feat when you consider
the quality of his often underestimated C.V.

American Made's frenetic and sometimes scattered focus may detract from
some viewers experiences and those looking for a more sombre take on a
no doubt very serious topic may be disappointed but Liman and his
cast's (that includes great bit turns from the likes of Sarah Wright as
Seal's wife Lucy and Caleb Landry Jones as Lucy's dim-witted brother
Bubba) ability to extract the absurdness and craziness of this whole
situation and turn it into such a fun piece of entertainment should be
a winner in the majority of cases, much like Scorsese's Wolf of Wall
Street did.

Final Say  

With Cruise on top form and Liman instilling his film with a
breathtaking amount of energy, American Made is a pure piece of
cinematic entertainment and an awesomely fun companion piece to
Cruise's other well-known plane centred star vehicle.

4 future presidents out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
Lured by adventure and bucket loads of cash, a gutsy TWA pilot takes on
flight operations for both the CIA and a Columbian drug cartel.

In this pacey action film, Tom Cruise pulls off the ultimate feat of an
A List actor- he disappears in the role of Barry Seale, ace pilot,
lover of risk, dedicated husband and father, and player of games with
some pretty shady people. It's a fun role, but deadly serious, and
Cruise gets the tone just right.

The director Doug Liman weaves his magic to recreate the effect of
being there- in the naive eighties, in the middle of all the fun of
flying and unexpected opportunity, with the cautionary tale of Barry
Seal a window into the world of corruption we only only saw glimpses of
at the time. My only complaint was that third act dragged a little, but
it's a real life story, so what can you do.

Full credit to the excellent Domnhall Gleeson as the CIA spy who lures
Barry into the web, he's one to watch in the future.

And kudos to Cruise who apparently did his own stunts. So go see it!
Take some popcorn & put some bums on seats!
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky to get an advanced screening. First off, at least it kept
my attention the whole way through. I had previously seen Cruise in the
"Mummy" movie recently released and was not impressed with his acting
there.

In this movie he returned to form and therefore the story-line was far
more plausible. I say story-line, but in reality it is one of those
docu-drama's, being based on fact. I wonder how much was dramatization
as there were some parts where you would ask "did this sh*t really
happen?!"

Would I be inclined to add it to my DVD collection, no. It was good as
a one time showing. I suspect the length of it worked somewhat against
it. A long movie needs to build up to a crescendo, and whilst this had
lots of action it never seemed to hit that top note.
<|_=00=_|>
At first i thought this movie will be boring as hell because of
biography and crime genre, many movie with similar genre failed to
bring the movie to success. I think it will be hard to make this kind
of movie but Doug Liman as the director and Tom Cruise as the main
character (Barry Seal) make this movie to the top of their best !

The story telling is good and makes the audience can follow it easily.
Its not too complex, but not plain too. Many humour inside it and Tom
Cruise acting really makes it real ! And because this movie based on
true story, and has reveal one of many dark secret on USA government,
it makes this movie more interesting ! I cant believe this movie can be
one of my favourite and be the one of top on my list. So recommended
for the audience who love crime story with comedy, just try it !
<|_=00=_|>
Always reliable if not exactly visionary, director Doug Liman has
another entertaining outing with Tom Cruise, reinventing his charm,
swagger and grin as tools for finding easy cash and marital respect
when honest work doesn't exactly get one far enough.

Cruise plays a totally reprehensible and despicable character and yet
manages to keep everyone invested in the ride that accelerates with
every misstep on the way, fully captivating the audience to wait for
the extent of the looming train wreck. Cruise is entirely game here,
not once trying to make audience feel sorry for his character or
thinking that maybe he had a heart of gold, after all. 

Worth pointing out is also a stellar turn from a less prolific Domhnall
Gleeson whose ambitious CIA operator is equally blind, naive and
brilliant, and Gleeson makes his oily presence wonderfully effective.
<|_=00=_|>
By Terry Reed, Author of Compromised: Clinton, Bush and the CIA. It
finally happened. The complex core of my book Compromised, the CIA's
covert guns and drugs debacle cleverly mislabeled the Iran Contra
Scandal, has hit the big screen thanks to the efforts of Universal
Studios, Director Doug Liman, Screen Writer Gary Spinelli, Tom Cruise
and a host of professionals. Liman told me he was attracted to this
project as a result of insider information he gleaned from his father
Arthur Liman, Chief Counsel for the US Senate's investigation of the
Iran Contra affair.

As the person who wrote the original, first hand and definitive book on
the Barry Seal/Mena, Arkansas operation, from the inside, I was the
most skeptical critic the movie had to win over since I had lived much
of the Mena ordeal right along side Barry Sealthe movie's main
character played by Cruise.

Sure, there are major deviations from the historical record of what
happened in Mena, and the screenwriter exercised his dramatic license
combining characters and blending together events for the purpose of
cramming this sordid story into 120 minutes of educational
entertainment. But that's Hollywood.

As someone who worked with several major Hollywood production companies
and screen writers (Clint Eastwood and Dennis Hackin just to drop
names) who attempted to bring Compromised to the theaters, I realize
how difficult it is find that balance between authenticity,
entertainment, time constraints and marketability. Doug Liman has done
just that! Those I worked with who attempted to whittle Compromised
down to an understandable narrative were most often left with a
docudrama type product that in most cases over-reflected the political
bend of the whittlers. Just as the title of my book suggests, the Iran
Contra scandal and the subsequent unraveling of a CIA covert operation
run amuck impacts both political parties. Sure, most will argue that
Hollywood is liberal and most likely to err on the side of
protect-the-Democrats at all costs, but let's face it, the vast
majority of the guns and drugs scandal imbedded within the Mena/Contra
support program falls directly into Republican laps. Again, Liman did a
superb job of staying true to the Mena geographical location and then
suggesting strongly that then-Governor Bill Clinton had a hand in it
when the US Attorney's efforts to apprehend Seal in Arkansas are
thwarted.

But alas, two hours is a short time to compress history, relay
intricate information into a comprehensible story line and then
ultimately deal with the life and fate of Cruise's character, pilot
Barry Seal. Cruise for the most part is receiving accolades for his
Seal portrayal, and I agree American Made underscores that occasionally
Cruise can move outside of his Mission Impossible persona and
reacquaint us with the depths of his talent.

I must say how rewarding it is to have consulted on the movie with Doug
Liman and his staff, and to see how he wove the nuances I provided into
the scenes in such an authentic and unobtrusive way. The Contra
training camp and mile-high-club scene are just a few of those nuggets
that cause the screenplay to frequently place foot on terra firma.

Debbie Seal, the real life widow of Barry who unfortunately is being
forced to relive this tragic chapter of her life by watching her
husband's demise, saw the movie in a different light. She reminded me
that Barry was double-crossed by the Reagan White House which not only
resulted in her husband's death by Pablo Escobar, but also forced her
to raise their three children alone. Debbie compared it to Jacqueline
Kennedy watching a movie of the JFK assassination. A grim reality
check.

The Mena/Iran Contra scandal resulted in many of us falling into the
category of "disposable assets" and being falsely labeled when a covert
White House back door operation ran amuck, and we became political
liabilities. Much of what we suffered through was the result of
cowardly behavior on behalf of the Reagan/Bush Administrations who knew
full well that many of us who were recruited for this covert operation
were "left in the cold" and disavowed when this violation of
Congressional Law (The Boland Amendment) became public knowledge. Most
of us were Vietnam Veterans who had skill sets needed for the operation
and felt honored to be selected to become part of a CIA backed Air
America style operation.

This is where I do take exception to the movie plot line. Many of us,
myself included, had nothing to do with the transportation of illegal
narcotics into America. We were briefed on Barry Seal's multi-prong,
multi-agency (DEA, and US Customs undercover activities penetrating the
Medellin Cartel that included "controlled deliveries" of cocaine)
operation but the vast majority of us were tasked with the difficult
and dangerous work of training the Contras to build out their own
guerilla warfare weapons air delivery system and delivering both
munitions and humanitarian aid in a war zone. The movie had two
different opportunities to move deeper in this direction, but I presume
time constraints kept the plot line humming along in the direction it
took.

All in all it is a great first effort to bring the Iran Contra scandal
to the movie theaters. It is about flawed human nature, war, life,
death and the seedy behavior of politicians and the alphabet soup
federal agencies that violate their own codes of ethics and
policies,all in the guise of National Security.

If you haven't seen American Made do so. But I must brief you. Fasten
your seat belt, stow your tray table and get ready for an exciting,
educational and turbulent flight.

P.S. Thank you Doug Liman for your satchel charge effort to blow the
doors off this scandal. Iran Contra still screams out for an in-depth
and tell-all docudrama production that lets the political fall-out
descend as it may and truly takes no prisoners. I am currently working
on that project.
<|_=00=_|>
When Hollywood gets it right and stops making movies for children they
can actually make a beauty like this one. My wife and I just returned
from such an accomplished film some minutes ago: American Made. 

We have seen Tom Cruise in a number of his previous films (not
necessarily by choice) and both of us kind of cringed at his screen
presence. He delivered his lines well enough, but we did not see him as
a genuine character; he seemed always to be playing his roles rather
than living them. The exception was the movie we attended this
afternoon; Cruise "stepped into the role", he became Barry Seal and us,
the audience lived his demise with him from airline pilot to cocaine
courier to arms smuggler for the American government.

This movie could not have been made while Ron Reagan was alive and the
other principles like Ollie North sat in positions of decision-making
power close to the Oval Office. This movie was about Barry Seal, Drug
Smuggler and tangentially about the evil and stupidity that lurked in
the minds of people that ran the American government and caused the
deaths of many thousands of people in Central America.

This is a brave and thoughtful film that all lovers of America should
see; besides its political strength see it because of it is a high film
making aptitude.
