
I'm a huge fan of the movie Once. When I arrived at South By Southwest,
and saw that John Carney had directed another movie, I have to say I
was a bit skeptical that he could capture the magic of that movie again
without the amazing music and raw performances of Glen Hansard.

My fears were unfounded.

SING STREET is a heartfelt, funny and artful coming-of-age movie set in
1985 Dublin. I'm close to an ideal audience member for this film,
because I grew up in the 80s myself, a child of the MTV Generation. I
count John Hughes' films and the Cameron-Crowe scripted Fast Times At
Ridgemont High among the most influential films of my childhood. They
are the reason I became a screenwriter, and why I continue to write
movies for a teen audience.

Sing Street truly hearkens back to those great teen movies of the 80s.
The best stories about teenagers are rooted in pain and isolation, and
this is no different - Connor "Cosmo" Lawler comes from an upper middle
class family that has fallen on hard times. His parents have constant
fights. His older brother Brendan is a college dropout and his sister,
the 'smart one,' pretty much keeps to herself. In order for the family
to save money, Connor is transferred to the local Catholic boys school,
where he's quickly made an outcast and an example by the authoritarian
headmaster.

You could say that this is a movie about forming a band. And this genre
of story - of artistic awakening - seems to be replayed quite often in
British and Irish films like The Commitments, Billy Elliott, The Full
Monty, and others. But those movies each had a unique wrinkle, and Sing
Street does too. It's the beautifully told story of the way that the
inspiration and inception of the best art is rarely an individual act
of genius, but rather, the result of a series of interconnected acts of
human desire and emotion.

It's the parents who sentence you to a horrible school; the girl who
you long for that won't give you the time of day; the other guys who
join your band because they're outcasts too... the brother who loves
you too much, and is too angry at his own cowardice, to let you settle
for less than your best.

There's also a lot of great humor in Sing Street about the fact that
you have to try on the styles of your heroes before you find your own
confidence. 40-something audiences will definitely get another level of
enjoyment out of all the allusions to great 80s bands. The art
direction and costumes are done wonderfully in that respect. But I
think this movie will work wonderful for today's teenagers as well.

The movie is by turns funny, heart-wrenching, soaring and surprising.
And the musical numbers, while not necessarily Oscar winning, like
Once, is great. I'm thrilled that a new generation of teenagers will
get to experience the release of a movie that's on par with the films I
love so much as a kid.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie to beat this summer isn't a superhero movie.Its a movie about
a teenager forming a band to try and impress a girl. What a wonderful
and beautiful movie this. I was smiling and hugging myself throughout.
So light and warm hearted and funny and yet deep and powerful. The
Music is amazing even the original songs are fantastic. It is directed
by the great John Carney who directed one of my favorite movies about
music, Once. This is one of the best coming of age stories I've ever
seen. It stands with Say Anything, Stand By ME, Perks of Being a
wallflower, The fault in our stars. Please just go watch this movie.
Please. I Loved it. ***** out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't expect such a good movie to be honest. The plot sounded
interesting but when you watch the movie you get hooked in about 10
minutes. The characters are incredible with their own personality ( i
really liked main characters brother , his story was great). The
soundtrack was...oh man...it was incredible and a great addition to the
movie. 

I believe that this is in my top 3 movies of the year so far and that's
why everyone should give it a watch. Trust me you will not be
disappointed at all. Its an amazing movie for all ages.

Also the acting is great and the 80s of course give the movie a
nostalgic and beautiful tone
<|_=00=_|>
I'm happy to grade this movie a full blast 10. I was a teenager in 1985
in the last private Catholic Boarding School left in Mexico City. I
relate to the strict uniform policy, the angry and imperfect young
Catholic brothers still guessing their vocations, the old professors
teaching materials for yester years, the canteen food, hiding Walkman
radios and sunglasses, talking about bands across the ocean, the girls
who wanted to be older and the fashion. This is a happy sad movie, that
will keep you tapping and asking why aren't all movies like this. The
script is very very smart, the casting couldn't be wiser. Lucy Boynton
does an amazing job. The art direction is so precise you can imagine
the smell of the flats. The awesome cars. What a great movie!!

Don't miss this!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Let me be honest and say that I really thought this movie was going to
be terrible, I didn't know the director, actors, I didn't know
anything. But even though thinking the movie probably sucked, I said
screw it and watched it, and I am pretty happy I did. Even though
definitely not being the best movie of the year, it is still well worth
watching. It is a very simple story about a guy telling a mysterious
girl he has a band to impress her, and then asking if she wants to be
in his music video. After that it is just him first creating the band,
by researching music, finding members. After that you see the band
becoming better, and also a love story between the main character and
the mysterious girl. But even though being a simple story there is a
lot more to it then what I wrote, it shows the relationship between the
main character and his brother, it shows the times they are living in,
and so much more. There is definitely more to this movie then you might
first recognize.

The music were also surprisingly good, I really wonder why this movie
didn't get one Oscar nomination, at least for the music. But anyway I
just want to tell you that this movie is pretty damn good. Even though
not even being slightly interested in teen movies, I think you may
still like it, at least I did. This movie is also very much about the
time they live in, and of course the music from it. Even though knowing
very little about Ireland in the 80's I still think I can say it was a
great way to show the time. The actors were actually quite good,
especially considering their age. The directing was great and made me
want to see more movies with him. I am going to finish by saying this
movie really deserves more attention, and it is one of the best movies
I have seen in recent times.
<|_=00=_|>
There's nothing quite like the creative process. We've all had that
feeling; unfolding with all its frenzied excitement, malleable thoughts
and brainstorms and inventive problem-solving. Yet creativity isn't
just limited to what music you make, what stories you write, what
paintings you paint. Flexing the limits of your creativity is almost
like a window into your identity. Do you look for the easy fix, do you
power through despite mental blocks, do you try the unexpected or bend
towards an originality or an universality. So it goes with Sing Street,
a movie that expands the notion of creativity itself, making an
unabashedly and irresistibly charming film.

Conor Lalor (Walsh-Peelo) and his family live in a charmed dwelling
overlooking the urban sprawl of South side Dublin. Due to financial
strain, Conor is informed that he's being taken out of his private
Jesuit high school and being transferred to a public school nearby. At
first, things go miserably. He's hassled by bullies, called names
openly in class and harangued by the school's principal Father Baxter
(Wycherley). His only solace is watching new wave music videos with his
older brother Brendan (Reynor). Things change however with the
appearance of the mysterious and strikingly beautiful Raphina (Boynton)
who stands on the stoop outside the school. He approaches her and asks
her to be in a music video; she agrees. Next step: start a band.

Conor quickly makes friends with a gaggle of outcasts from the school
in order to haphazardly start, build and maintain a fledgling little
group. Among them is the multi-talented Eamon (McKenna) who can not
only play multiple instruments but can put Conor's lyrics to song. It
is the moments between these two young artists that best exemplifies
the movie's central theme. We share with them the 4am feeling of
unbounded imaginative bliss as they riff off each other, clean up their
chords and rhythms and ask each other the meaning behind the songs they
write. Because of Eamon's father's vocation as a covers band leader,
the band not only has a place to practice but instruments to play which
benefits the rest of the players as they develop their sound.

Conor uses his band not only for the purpose of wooing the girl but
also as a means to escape his increasingly turbulent home life. The
marriage between his mother (Doyle Kennedy) and father (Gillen) circles
the drain as his dropout brother smokes hash and oozes cynicism and
unrealized potential. In one moment of investigation, Brendan points to
the mother who sits on the stoop, smoking a cigarette, hoping to catch
the last rays of sunshine of the day. With big talk of some day going
to Paris, the mother settles on these moments to sulk in bitter
reflection. "I cleared a path for you." Brendan says in a moment of
defeat. Seems his carefully curated collection of vinyl and his
grimacing observations serve as a counterpoint to encourage Conor's
brazen dreams.

Yet it's the girl who pushes Conor to the point of unique creative
verisimilitude. And as the would-be model that captures the heart of
our young hero, Lucy Boynton is an absolute vision. She coyly hints at
gigs and glamour in London yet she lives at an all girls boarding house
and dates a guy who listens to Genesis. Yet despite outward moments of
confident sashaying, behind the makeup and denim there beats the heart
of a true romantic and a true creative conduit. "When it comes to art,
you never go halfway." she says just after she throws herself into the
Irish Sea for the sake of a good video. This moment is immediately
followed by Conor responding in kind.

And yes this movie is about a new wave band in the 1980's, so yes there
is a lot of hair, makeup, posh scarf wearing and mod style bravado.
While today we like to take potshots at the synth-pop aesthetic,
there's still something utterly charming about the way it is presented
here. Is it nostalgia; probably. Yet there's an unawareness to it,
allowing the audience to discover (or re-discover) the trappings of
80's popular music in real time. The excitement Brendan and Conor feel
in watching Duran Duran's Rio music video is infectious, and the
original songs by the band are easily the best thing about Sing Street.

Conor eventually finds a since of identity within the catchy rhythms of
his songs, the jejune charms of Raphina and the kindliness of Brendan's
brotherly love. The moments of kitchen sink realism serves not only as
a cautionary tale to Conor but to us as well. When we refuse ourselves
the rewards of creativity we risk becoming embittered, angry and
resentful. In the words of Kurt Vonnegut, "Go into the arts. The arts
are not a way to make a living. They are a very human way of making
life more bearable. Practicing an art, no matter how well or badly, is
a way to make your soul grow." To put it another way, go create
something.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a fan of Carney's band the Frames, and was delighted to see his
first low budget film , "Once" 

His second wonderful film had a much bigger budget and well know cast,
but still a small film. I just loved, "Begin Again" with Mark Ruffalo,
Adam Levine, and Kiera Knightly.

He goes back to his roots with Sing Street and it is simply a joyful
experience. It started off a bit slow for me. But as the band that is
the focal point of the film hones their skills and improves so does
this wonderful story. I just can't say enough about how great the two
leads were in this film Ferdia Walsh-Peelo plays the male lead Conor,
and Lucy Boynton as Raphina were just wonderful. It is a great film to
watch if you are having trouble getting your smile on. 

As an American I had a little trouble at times with the thick Irish
accents. When I watch the CD I may have to stick the subtitles on.I
wish the film had a bit of a bigger budget in the sense that it looks
like it was made on a tiny budget and musicals are much better when the
sound is powerful. But that is just quibbling. Go see this in the
theaters, if for nothing else to make sure Carney gets money to keep
making films.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a sucker for movies about musicians, and John Carney has already
given us Once (2007) and Begin Again (2013). Now he delights once more
with Sing Street, a tale told with humor, drama, and some pretty catchy
songs, all set in the backdrop of 1980's Dublin.

Yes, Sing Street is set in the 80's so it undeniably lends itself to
comic relief as these schoolboys are forced to navigate through hair,
makeup, clothing and music video choices along their artistic journey.
We get plenty of laughs as we watch them try to forge an identity and
look like bona-fide rock stars in this crazy MTV generation. And for
good measure, they insert the obligatory Phil Collins joke in the mix.

There is quite a deal of drama as well. We see bullying in an all-boys
school, dysfunctional families, the economic hardships of Ireland in
the 80's and young people's wish to break out of societal malaise and
seek their fortunes elsewhere. I haven't lived in Ireland but the
desire to pack your bags and start over in another place is a universal
one. Audiences in every continent can relate to that.

The cast is solid and I was very impressed with the leads, especially
Ferdia Walsh-Peelo who plays Connor. He can be charming, kind, insecure
but out-of-nowhere gutsy which is an accurate depiction of a blossoming
musician. After the first hour I began to be doubtful of the character
of Connor's brother Brendan for seeming to be too wise for his age, but
by the end of the film it all made sense, and Jack Reynor was a fine
choice for that role. Lucy Boynton (Raphine) is great as the love
interest and mysterious but troubled muse; she packs an emotional
performance and probably looks the most natural in 80's fashion,
although she didn't quite convince me as a 16 year-old and it wasn't
because of all the excess hair and makeup. On the other hand Mr.
Walsh-Peelo (Connor) was only 15 when the movie was shot and he's got
that boyish appearance. Finally Mark McKenna (Eamon) has such an
uncanny resemblance to Julian Lennon it's scary! But a good actor too.

As far as concerns I had only a few major ones but they didn't detract
from the enjoyment of the film. First is that the story moves very
quickly in the first 30 minutes or so, then takes the foot off the
pedal for the remainder. And second, it's a little unrealistic that
these kids can write quality songs right out of the blocks. It would
have been fun to hear a real stinker when they're starting out. I'm a
musician and believe me, our first attempts are pretty bad. That's true
even for the all-time best.

There were a few other minor things but they're not worth mentioning.
This is a great story, it got all the laughs, cheers and tears in the
right places and I would recommend it to everyone, especially those who
want to express themselves through art and aspire to greatness. Dream
big, all you adolescents. A big thanks to John Carney et al for
reminding us of that and making a quality film.
<|_=00=_|>
Ah, the joy and pain of first love! Young Conor (aka Cosmo, played in
his impressive debut by Ferdia Walsh-Peelo) has the smelly end of a
shitty stick to deal with while growing up in 1980's Dublin. He has
warring parents with the need  for financial reasons - to move Conor
from his posh school to 'Singe Street' Catholic school: a decidedly
rougher and tougher place, ruled over with a rod of iron by Brother
Baxter (Don Wycherley). This is a place of chaos and mayhem, ruled over
by bullies of the likes of Barry (a superbly intimidating Ian Kenny).

The 15 year old Conor tries punching above his weight with the lovely
16 year old Raphina (Lucy Boynton)  a struggling wannabe model with
"mysterious eyes" who hangs around outside the Woman's Refuge opposite
the school. To get her number, he claims to head up a band and to need
her help with the band's video. One small problem: there is no band and
Conor has limited musical ability! He gathers around him a motley crew
of friends, and with the help of his stoner brother (Jack Raynor) and
his extensive vinyl collection, goes about creating a band to gain fame
and fortune (or at least the girl).

This is a film that works on so many levels. As a piece of nostalgia
for us older folks, the sights and sounds of the 80's are brought
vividly back to life, with a rocking soundtrack of the likes of Duran
Duran and Spandau Ballet to enjoy. And as a coming of age movie, the
long lingering looks, embarrassment and discomfort of first-dating is
both touching and painful to watch, with the best Rich-Tea fuelled snog
ever put on screen! Few films in fact have come this close to depicting
this glorious ineptitude since John Gordon Sinclair and Dee Hepburn
struggled to get together in Bill Forsyth's "Gregory's Girl" (making me
feel ancient, this was actually set in 1981!).

It should be noted that at one point the film also models the casual
racism prevalent at the time, with perhaps only the addition of a
rebuking "You can't say things like that" striking a less realistic
note. 

This is a film where nearly everyone is damaged in one way or another 
drugs; hopeless ambition; child abuse; paedophilia, alcoholism;
bullying; (the list goes on). However, the hugely intelligent script by
writer and director John Carney drips the issues out in such tiny
insinuations and snippets of conversation that it feels lifelike: not
as if the film-maker is beating you over the head with it. This is just
a poor Dublin life in the 80's: get on with it.

All of this might make you think this is a hugely depressing,
kitchen-sink type of drama that will leave you, at the end of the
evening, in dire need of a box-set of "Father Ted" to cheer you up.
Nothing could be further from the truth. In the same way as the music
in Alan Parker's 1991 Dublin-set classic "The Commitments" - and indeed
2013's excellent Belfast-based "Good Vibrations" - lifted the spirits,
so the drive and energy of the soundtrack makes the film a hugely
uplifting experience. Besides the classic 80's stuff there are some
really great original songs (co-written by the multi- talented John
Carney, with Gary Clark): I was still humming "Drive It Like You Stole
It" in the car park. 

The young cast throw themselves into the job with great energy, with
Walsh-Peelo and Boynton delivering touching and impressive performances
and Mark McKenna particularly worthy of note channeling a young John
Lennon. My top acting accolade though goes to Jack Raynor (who was
until recently rumoured to be in the running for the role of the young
Han Solo: a role that's now just gone to "Hail Caesar's" Alden
Ehrenreich). Playing Conor's older and wiser brother, his frustration
at his role in life boils over in a vinyl- smashing and hugely
impressive rant that I would like to see credited with a Best
Supporting Actor award. And amid all of the teenage love and band
efforts, it is this aspect of brotherly love that eventually shines out
as the beating heart of the film. 

The film is a little rough at the edges  a dream sequence looks like
it could have had a few more dollars thrown at it - but this often adds
to the charm. John Carney seems to have quite an Indie following, but
I'm not familiar with his other work. This film left me wanting to dig
into his archives. It left my wife gushing with tears from beginning to
end! A must see film.

(I loved it - did you? Please visit http://bob-the-movie-man.com for
the graphical version of this review and to provide any feedback in the
comments section.)
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. The vast majority of 1980's music
usually inspires nothing but groans and an immediate change of the
radio channel from me. Yet writer/director John Carney masterfully
captured and held my attention with this crowd-pleasing story that
leans heavily on the tunes from that era.

Mr. Carney was also responsible for two previous music-centric movies,
Once (2007) and Begin Again (2013). He is an exceptional story teller
who puts music at the center, but avoids the label of "musical" by
making it about people, rather than notes.

It's 1985 in economically depressed Dublin, and a strong opening
sequence introduces us to Connor (Ferdia Walsh-Peelo) as his
ever-arguing parents (Aidan Gillen, Maria Doyle Kennedy) inform him of
the economic necessity of pulling him out of prep school and enrolling
him into a much tougher environment  one that comes with bullies and
hard-nosed teachers/clergy.

Soon enough Connor is hanging with the misfits and inviting an
enchanting "older" girl to star in his band's video. She agrees, and
wide-eyed Connor quickly sets out to form a band that didn't previously
exist.

There are two interesting and fully realized relationships that make
this movie click: Connor and the enchanting Raphina (Lucy Boynton), and
Connor and his older brother Brendon (Jack Reynor). Brendan is Connor's
life mentor and music guru. They are quick to jump on the new world of
music videos, and it's a real hoot to watch Connor emulate the style
and fashion of Duran, Duran, The Cure, etc.

It's fascinating to note that Connor, while a pretty talented lyricist
and singer, doesn't really seem to be in love with the music except as
a means to an end  a way to get the girl. That said, the real message
here is that while teenagers often feel like they can't fix the outside
world (parents, teachers, bullies), they can fix themselves by finding
a passion in life (the movie uses the term vocation).

It's hard not to notice the influence of such filmmakers as John Hughes
and Cameron Crowe, and Carney certainly brings his touch of
romanticism. Plus, one must appreciate any movie that delivers an
original song as catchy as "Drive it like you Stole it", while also
taking a shot at Phil Collins. It's a funny and sweet movie that should
really catch on through positive word of mouth.
