
It's hard to talk about any M. Night films these days without
discussing his career trajectory, how he started off incredibly strong
with a triple knockout of The Sixth Sense, Unbreakable, and Signs, only
to have his potential squandered, or at least questioned, with films
like The Happening, The Last Airbender, and After Earth. As a fan of
Shyamalan myself, even I had to admit that he may have lost his luster.
With that being said, I'm overjoyed and elated to say that The Visit is
Shyamalan's best film since The Village over 10 years ago (my personal
favorite). And it's not so bad it's good. The Visit is a legitimately
good film, with great performances, terrific setups and even better
payoffs, and an overall simple but satisfying story, which is all
Shyamalan needs right now.

It's difficult to say much about the story without revealing too much,
because The Visit is essentially the type of film where it's better the
less you know going in. It's not to say the film is filled with plot
twists left and right, but how cleverly it subverts expectations,
especially based on the film's misleading marketing campaign. Let this
be known: The Visit is a horror AND comedy. It's downright hilarious
(intentionally so) during a majority of the film but also equally scary
and creepy, which is what M. Night is known for. I was laughing
hysterically and screaming, sometimes at the same time! The success of
the film is how effectively it jumps in between the two genres and
frequently on the dime. The third act showcases this in the best
possible way and in full Shyamalan fashion.

Though there are plenty of laughs and screams to be had, The Visit is
also filled with surprising moments of drama. There are, at the very
least, three genuinely beautiful scenes. One of those involves a zoom
in of a certain character, and it's utterly heartbreaking. Credit must
be given to Shyamalan who manages to get great performances from his
actors, a welcome change after the stilted and wooden performances in
his last few films. Olivia DeJonge and Ed Oxenbould play the leads, and
they're completely likable in their roles. Oxenbould, in particular,
steals every scene he's in, providing many of the film's biggest
laughs. Seriously, the jokes in here are funnier than most comedies
released these days. Deanna Dunagan and Peter McRobbie are also
rightfully creepy as the kids' offbeat grandparents. Last but not
least, Kathryn Hahn leaves a great impression, despite the limited
screen time she has. She's truly wonderful here.

Overall, The Visit is ridiculously entertaining and a total crowd
pleaser. It's the film we were all hoping for Shyamalan to make to get
him out of the slump. No, it's not as great as his first four films,
but it's a step towards the right direction. Recently, it's been
revealed that he'll reunite with producer Jason Blum and Joaquin
Phoenix for a new project. If it's another low budget feature like The
Visit, which it most likely will be, we might be witnessing an era of
Shyamalascance. After all, going back to basics is his greatest asset
right now. Who says horror/comedy can't work?

UPDATE: The film is even better the second time around, and I noticed a
lot of details I missed during the first viewing. There's even clever
meta humor sprinkled throughout that might not be apparent at first.
Additionally, I'd like to put a spotlight on Deanna Dunagan, who I
didn't give enough credit to beforehand. She was fantastic. How great
and fulfilling it is for an actress her age to have a role that is
complicated and complex as is the character of Nana, to be sweet and
motherly in one scene only to switch (convincingly) to creepy and
insane the next. In one especially dramatic scene, you will even ache
for her. Only if you stop to think will you notice the many layers
Dunagan has to play with, and for that reason, she should be praised.
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of the rarest horror movies that managed to keep me
totally scared and mostly uncomfortable from start to finish in years
and years. I don't get this new trend of hating everything Shiamalan
does. This new movie is one of the best horror concepts I've come
across in a very long time and uses simplicity to the best effect. 

I don't get what people these days expect an horror movie to be. If you
don't think this a good example of a simple concept that works like a
dream...or a nightmare, I don't get what passes for horror in Hollywood
no more. 

The idea for this movie is fantastic, and it's very well executed. I
really don't get why people complain that nothing happens in this
story. It's that type of simplicity that keeps the scary atmosphere
throughout the entire movie. This is not a cgi crap action so called
horror thing for teens, this is a classic old school horror, it's
filled with a creepy atmosphere and uses perfectly all the ideas for
each character to keep the viewer feeling uncomfortable all the time. 

There's a couple of good scares ,but most of the horror really happens
inside our minds. This is the best thing in this movie, it creates such
an atmosphere of tension with simple things that when something really
dramatic happens on screen we get ten times more startled and there's
no need for any cgi on this movie at all to scare teenagers and bore
the rest of us to death with the usual clichés. Not on this one.

This is clearly an horror movie for adults, its not edited at two
hundred frames per second and it has a classic structure that simply is
not targeted at young audiences. This is an horror movie for horror
fans, it's not a popcorn movie for general audiences so ignore the bad
ratings on IMDb, because if you remember the good classic stuff from
the 70s like The Omen, The Changeling, or all those movies built on
atmosphere instead of action, this movie is for you.

Absolutely brilliant. In my view the only thing that does not work is
the final sequence after the twist is revealed, simply because the
movie stops being a a story that creeps us out and becomes the usual
fight for your life action bit we've seen hundreds of times. But until
that happens this story is scary. Not because of what it shows but
because of what keeps making us expect it's going to happen next.

Shyamalan is really back and this screenplay is the best thing he's
ever written since the sixth sense and unbreakable. Also the casting is
simply perfect with brilliant performances from everyone.

True horror is back folks. Ignore the bad hype from the multiplex
popcorn crowd. This is a real gem that deserves to be among the very
best horror titles of recent years and it will creep you out if you
like your suspense atmospheric.
<|_=00=_|>
Even though I've been severely burned by M. Night Shyamalan's
commercial misfires (or rather miscarriages) like Lady in the Lake
(ugh!), Airbender (what the hell was he thinking?) and After Earth, I
decided to give him one more shot in the shape of The Visit. What
worked in his favor was his superb work on the small screen in the form
of the 2015 mini-series Wayward Pines - which made me believe that deep
down inside Shyamlan's heart still resides a true artist, and not some
lazy hack who tackles big-budget flops just to get paychecks from the
studio. His recent talk in interviews about gaining back artistic
control of his products was another positive step in Shyamalan's long
path to cinematic forgiveness.

And so I entered The Visit, a somewhat short and intimate tale of two
precocious teenagers, a brother (13) and sister (15), who travel cross
country to meet and spend a week with their estranged grandparents,
whom they have not seen or met since birth due to a big family feud
their divorced mother (Kathryn Hahn, the most recognizable face in the
cast) refuses to talk about. The sister, Becca (the promising Olivia
DeJonge) also happens to be an aspiring filmmaker, out to make a
documentary about the big reconciliation, which ever so conveniently
sets the movie up in the popular found footage sub-horror genre - but
also opens a wide crack for endless jokes and self-aware nods towards
the unsuspecting audience.

Anyway, as you could probably tell by the previews, something isn't
quite right with Poppa and Nanna, and even though at first they seem
like reasonably nice elder folks, their strict rules (do not get out of
the room after 21:30, do not go down to the basement) and strange
manners (you'll see what I'm talking about) soon enough make it clear
to both Becca and Tyler (the smaller brother portrayed by the superb Ed
Oxenbould, who at 14 shows endless promise) that they better get the
hell out of there - as fast as they could.

Besides the trademark Shyamalan twist, which actually works here and
seems reasonable in hindsight (unlike, say, The Village), the extremely
self-aware script and the very natural and authentic brother-sister
relationship between both co-leads, lends further credence to
Shyamlan's pet project. You can see that he cared for the characters,
and you can also easily remember that this is a director who made a
reputation for himself because he managed to facilitate such an
emotional and iconic performance out of then-11-year-old Haley Joel
Osment, so obviously he's good with kids. I don't know if young Ed
Oxenbould is the next Osment, but he sure does deliver the goods
through and through - and gives one of the best children/teen
performances I've watched in a while.
<|_=00=_|>
Well that took a while but I can now say that he is back. I think this
is the kind of film where he thrives low budget, small and intimate
domestic settings and a smaller scope. It has echoes of Signs, The
Village and The Sixth Sense. I see that critics are comparing it to The
Conjuring and I would agree to an extent yes, it has the same level of
information withholding.

It's amazing how this film manages to be so wonderfully terrifying
without the use of much cgi or special effects. A couple of points in
the film I yelped and let out a nervous laughter (and I'm a tough guy).

M. Night Bashers will continue bashing this film but I feel this will
stand the test of time, much like his best films. I hope he keeps this
up and makes two or three more of these 'small' films quickly and then
perhaps, people will eventually forget his larger failures.

I say, watch it. If anything, it's a fantastic lesson in directing
horror through restraint.
<|_=00=_|>
The thing I found out (to my dismay) that I did not know before going
to the theater was that a lot of this movie was shot in the long
over-used and abused "home movie/shaky cam" format. If I had come in
the theater in the middle of the movie, I might have assumed I had
accidentally wandered into the 7th, or whatever, sequel to Paranormal
Activity. And to add insult to injury M Night is about 8 years late to
the party for that trick. Or was it suppose to be some type of irony or
mocking of the standard horror movie fare? Perhaps this once creative
director has finally succumbed to audience expectations --if all you
want is cookie cutter, unimaginative, thematically barren, shaky cam,
scary movies then here you go...... 

Another let down for me was that in his earlier movies there were
always a number of positive sub-themes running through the movies that
I found as interesting, if not more so, than the obvious scary movie
theme. I failed to find any such redeeming parallel plot lines in The
Visit. Again maybe he is just simplifying his movies to match his
audience's wishes.

On the upside, I did find this movie to be something of an improvement
over his most recent efforts. There were a few good chuckles. There
were a couple of OK jump scenes. There was some tension here and there,
but overall still a disappoint for me. 

Of course, I eventually liked The Village and Signs a lot better after
I had watched them several times on DVD. Maybe there is a jewel in the
rough hiding here, just waiting to be found. Rating a 5.5 of 10 on
first impression though.
<|_=00=_|>
The Good: The most surprising thing about this movie was how it
uniquely found a way to be scary, but still include funny moments
throughout the film. It knew when to be funny, and when to be scary,
without mixing the two together. The scary parts will provide quite a
few jump- scares, and in some scenes they will simply disturb you. The
young boy, "Tyler" (played by Ed Oxenbould ), will quickly become a
favorite in this film with his various remarks, "swearing", and
"skills". I think it's fair to say that "Nana", played by Deanna
Dunagan, does a really good job of playing the crazy grandma given all
the versatile things she did in the movie. For some, the plot twist in
the story will be mild, but good nevertheless.

The Bad: As we've come to know from director M. Night Shyamalan (The
6th Sense, Signs), the "big twist" is to be expected. Because of that,
if you're an over-analyzer of movies like me, you'll probably see the
twist coming from a mile away. So in that aspect, the story is mildly
predictable. (That doesn't ruin the movie though) Many of the scary
scenes you'll see coming, and for the most part are not terrifying to
the point that will give you nightmares. It's very generic horror and
scare tactics that we've seen before.

The Reason: Okay, so here's the real deal about this movie. M. Night
Shyamalan is known for having a really bad reputation for putting out
movies like Lady in the Water, The Village, The Happening, and others.
He started off great with The 6th Sense and Signs, but since then,
audiences have been generally disappointed. Luckily for The Visit, this
movie was not one of his bad films. It was disturbingly funny and scary
at the same time. This film is like his "makeup movie" to audiences.
For example, in a relationship, if a guy messes up and constantly
disappoints his girlfriend, he may give her flowers as an apology. Now
the girlfriend may like the flowers, but that doesn't mean the
boyfriend is completely forgiven. Shyamalan is in the same boat. The
Visit is his "flowers" to audiences. We'll take it, but he's still got
a lot more work to do to make up for all the other not-so-great movies
he's given us.

Take caution if you decide to see it. It's a unique movie. Not a
Hollywood blockbuster by any means, but I wouldn't be surprised if many
would enjoy it. To see this movie I recommend: Go in with low
expectations, pay the matinée price, and go with a friend or date.
(You'll want to talk about it afterwards)

The Rating: 7/10

For more of my reviews visit: www.EmansMovieReviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
What is wrong with people? This film is currently rated 7.0?! I didn't
think that I would see a film worse than "Knock Knock" in 2015 but M.
Night Shyamalan's "The Visit" could possibly be the worst film I've
ever seen. 

Every aspect of this film is terrible. It has all the cliché problems
of the "found footage" genre - the shakiness, the perfect Hollywood
cinematography when these are supposed to be teenagers with hand- held
cameras. The plot is Swiss cheese and the twist can be spotted a mile
away (the web cam did it for me). The children are so incredibly
obnoxious and their dialogue so pretentious that I wanted them to die
as soon as possible.

There is a scene in it where an elderly incontinent man slaps a diaper
full of feces into a child's face and I can't help feeling this is a
metaphor for Shyamalan's career. He can't help producing this trash but
he chooses to slap it in our faces and, like the child in the film, we
all just stand there and take it. Seriously, no joke - worse film ever.
<|_=00=_|>
Walking into the over crowded theater to see yet another over hyped M.
Night Shyamalan movie, I already missed the money I had spent on the 90
minute torture. Let's face it, Shymalan has not made a fantastic movie
in over a decade and this movie does not show any signs of him getting
any better. 

We all know as soon as we turn on a Shymalan movie that there is going
to be a plot twist that is so obscure that we would never have thought
of it, but the Visit fails to deliver this mind blowing twist. The idea
that the 'grandparents' were mental patients who had escaped seemed
pretty self explanatory from the start. Not only is the twist a
complete failure but the movie delivers no real scare. There are a few
cheap jump scares throughout, but no suspense or build up.

The children in the movie are seldom frightened by the bizarre behavior
of their 'grandparents', but they do make a lot of jokes about them and
are very sarcastic about everything that happens. This strongly takes
away from the horror factor. Think about it. You're stuck in a place
with 2 elderly people you have never met who are very strange and at
one point you even record one of them knocking on your door with a
knife. Witty banter is the last thing on your mind. 

Finally the very last issue with this movie comes from one of the last
scenes in which the 'grandfather' shoves dirty diaper in the young boys
face and in retaliation, the boy kills the old man all the while
yelling like the hype man at an 8 mile rap battle. No not like he's
yelling because he's a minor killing someone who just shoved crap in
his face, but literally like Eminem's on stage hype guy. As if that
wasn't enough to defeat the end of this movie, after a touching scene
with their mother, the movie cuts to the young boy in his sisters room
rapping about his visit. If a kid had crap shoved in his mouth he
wouldn't be writing a rap about it. If a kid had to kill someone to go
home he wouldn't be rapping about it. He would be talking to a
therapist and not acting as if nothing had ever happened.

In conclusion, this movie was unrealistic, the emotions of the kids
were very unnatural, the plot twist was barely a twist, and I would
never see this movie again if I was paid to.
<|_=00=_|>
After enduring this flick, there are likely a series of questions you
will be asking yourself. Among the many possibilities are these: #1:Why
did I do it? #2:Can I get my $$ back? #3:Have I just wasted precious
hours of my life I will never get back? #4:Is there anything worse than
a 12 year old kid with a lisp repeatedly rap singing into a shaky
camera held by his older sister who uses language reserved for grad
school Art History pseudo intellectual students who smoke cigarettes &
discuss cinematic themes pretending to be smart? #5:Is there a worse
Director than M Night Shamalammadingdong? #6:Is there any possibility
that there could be a movie in the last 5 years that I have seen that I
enjoyed less than this one? #7:Will I ever let my Wife select another
movie for us to go to? #8:If you are involved in some way in the
production of this movie, do you realize at that time during production
that you are infecting the universe? #9:Do they really make a
residential oven about 7 feet deep that you would crawl into after your
deranged Grandma who you have known for 3 days asks you to clean it?
#10: Just how often do you have to clean this type of oven? I could go
on & on & on, just like this movie went on & on lisp rapping & cringe
inducing without end. The only way M Night could have improved the
script here would have been for a meteor to destroy the earth in the
first 5 minutes & spare me the torture of this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a fan of M. Night Shyamalan since Sixth Sense his movies
are usually good. with great plots, good acting. but after Signs
Shyamalan you went nuts or something cause the movies you have put out
have been completely absurd. I made the mistake of reading into the
reviews and got excited that M. Night Shyamalan has returned to form.
HAHAHA the jokes on me I actually spent money on this retarded movie.
by the way You forgot to expound on why the effects of dementia only
come after 9:30PM? or maybe you did and that was one of the many parts
I fell asleep. what about what was the connection to the psychiatric
hospital? were they neighbors? if it was a small town as you suggest
then everyone would know everyone and more than one person would come
looking for the elderly couple. Sixth Sense awesome, Unbreakable was
great, signs OK, the village stupid, lady in the water stupid, the
happening even stupider, last air bender OK, the devil OK, after earth
OK, the visit was just stupid, the twist, a child can guess. M. Night
Shyamalan this is last time I will fall for your nonsense. I will never
again pay for a movie of yours.
