
I had high hopes for this movie because of Robert Zemeckis, Brad Pitt,
and Marion Cotillard. I definitely went into it prepared for a WWII
movie, full of action and special effects. And to be clear, this movie
certainly DOES have action and special effects (what Zemeckis film
doesn't?), but it goes beyond that. 

The actions scenes, when they do happen, are well choreographed and fun
to watch. They also earn the movie it's rating, and are brutal but not
overbearing. Marion and Brad are both convincing, proving to the
audience that they are well- trained spies who don't hesitate to kill.

Something I found very interesting about this movie is that while it's
not primarily a war film, it did provide a very interesting look at
what life was like for people. This was a time when people partied like
the world was ending. Drinks, drugs, sex, etc. But this was also a time
when people sometimes watched planes get shot out of the sky. It's a
fascinatingly personal way of portraying the war, and the people living
through it.

The special effects are stunning, Zemeckis seamlessly blending reality
and effects. Many scenes are simply breathtaking. It's puzzling how the
movie manages to be both classic and modern.

As I mentioned though, this movie is more than just war and special
effects. By the end, there are a few clear themes; putting what's best
for those you love above your own needs, and trying your hardest to
believe the best of/trust those closest to you. Even if it means you
have to break some rules, or even put your own life on the line. 

The ending, which some say is overly-sentimental, hit a chord that
worked for me. It showed the lengths people go to to protect their
family. However people complain about the Forest Gump ending, and that
one makes me cry almost every time I see it. So if I'm in the minority
here, I'm not at all surprised.

One last thing that I thought this movie did very well, was showing
just how difficult it would truly be for spies to fall in love. For the
first half of the movie, the two are basically brought together and
drawn to each other because of their abilities. They live, supposedly,
very similar lives. They are evenly matched. They fit together in every
sense because of their mastery of espionage. And yet, once the twist
comes along, that same mastery of espionage is what tears them apart.
Marion's ability to lie, once a great asset, is now their greatest
enemy. It's a wonderful way to weave the story together, and makes for
some excellent tension as well as irony. 

Overall, Allied is absolutely a mix. It has espionage, it has war, it
has assassinations, it has parties, it has family, it has
romantic/steamy (quite steamy, might I add) moments, it has costumes
and scenery, it has a mystery to be solved, etc. And some of these
things it does magnificently. Some of these things it does just
well-enough. But it does it all. Which is more than can be said for
most movies these days.

This movie certainly deserves the R rating. There is nudity, multiple
sex scenes, a decent amount of violence, language, drugs. 

If you are a fan of classic movies, watch it. Is it perfect? No, it
certainly has weak points and flaws. But overall I was thoroughly
entertained by it. It kept me on the edge of my seat, and I will
definitely be buying this on Blu-Ray, hopefully with lots of insight
into how this film was made and what technologies Zemeckis used.
<|_=00=_|>
'Allied' has garnered a mixed reaction, on IMDb and with critics in
general. This is completely understandable, and the mixed reaction and
the reasoning for it mirrors my own feelings for the film. 'Allied' is
not a bad film, but from seeing the trailers (which strongly suggested
a film that would be more epic, more moving and more thrilling) to be
honest was expecting a lot more.

There is a lot to like about 'Allied'. Visually, it is a gorgeous film.
The cinematography is rich in atmosphere and colour and is quite poetic
too, while the sets, scenery and costumes are evocative and
eye-catching. The music by Alan Silvestri is neither too intrusive or
too low-key, instead stirring when it needs to be and understated again
when needed. There are some thrilling and harrowing moments as well as
some poignant ones in the more intimate scenes, personally thought the
controversial ending was quite emotional but can definitely see why it
won't work for some.

Marion Cotillard gives a nuanced and deeply felt turn, nothing short of
sensational. Brad Pitt's performance has been criticised (as well as
defended), to me it was appropriately stoic, despite his character
being nowhere near as meaty as Cotillard's, and he was a worthy partner
for Cotillard, a little cold in places but mostly fiery. The supporting
cast are fine.

On the other hand, the script and pacing are uneven. The script is
'Allied's' biggest flaw, lacking plausibility in places, especially in
the mission scenes, having too much padding that's overlong and adds
little to nothing and some of the parts intended to be emotional laid
it on too thick with the treacle and sentimentality. Much more could
have been done with the psychological subtext, which would have made
Pitt's character more interesting and given the story more consistent
suspense and thrills.

Pacing does drag badly frequently, primarily due to having superfluous
scenes that lacked momentum and went on too long and also due to Robert
Zemeckis' quite disappointing direction. There are moments, but it is a
case of getting the job done but in a workmanlike and tame fashion, not
the thrills and cleverness one expects from Zemeckis that is present in
the best of his work.

In summary, had potential to be epic as a wartime romance, but doesn't
quite make it. Many great things, but a few big things that got in the
way of fulfilling full potential. 6/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
There was no plot twist although there were several places for a plot
twist. If you saw the trailer, you saw the movie. Also, the break from
the period setting to give modern values with no point. The
introduction of a sister to Brad Pitt's character, who is openly a
lesbian. This would NEVER happen in the 1940s as homosexuality was
against the law and they were greatly disdained by the public. It is a
completely pointless distraction from the period setting. Another goof,
German Army officers wearing Nazi armbands. I was beginning to think
Quinton Tarantino made this movie. Another example of how Hollywood
cannot make a period movie without sabotaging their own production.
<|_=00=_|>
You may have seen the preview for this movie; I would say that that
does not fully prepare you for the actual movie. It is a movie that
will appeal to adults, both men and women, and it includes romance,
sacrifice, and plenty of action and spy hi jinks. 

A very good script, with some great plot turns, and superior acting
from both Marion Cotillard and Brad Pitt in complex, challenging roles.
My favorite bit: when they make love in a car in the Moroccan desert
with a sandstorm going on all around them. It is a good metaphor for
their love story in the midst of the great chaos of World War II. And
it has a realistic feel, for the most part--for the sets in Casablanca
(some good homage to the Bogart film, I would say also some Brando
homage in parts of Pitt's performance), and the time back in the UK
(second favorite bit is during a party in London). One does get the
sense of the all-out effort demanded to win the war, something we do
well to commemorate in these days when the last veterans of that most
epic event in history are at death's door. 

It is a Zemeckis film, from the school of film-making of Steven
Spielberg, and that means your emotions are subject to the whim and
whimsy of the director's manipulation. Sometimes you are aware of that,
but oftentimes you are not, and that makes it better (than, say,
Forrest Gump). 

I will take the movie as a whole and suggest Oscar nominations for
original screenplay and both leading roles.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has it's entertaining moments but is generally pretty bad.
Totally lacking any tension the scenes are predictable and don't
connect well to each other. The script is awful, almost laughable. The
stereotypical British characters are embarrassing in a 4 weddings +
funeral kinda way. The lesbian couple are pointless and seem to be
thrown in there for PC reasons. Why does Brad Pitt turn into a
mannequin every time he is introduced to people? The plot is full of
holes...why did the German officer rush off to make a phone call
instead of arresting Max Vatan?...why would 2 dynamic and ruthless
killers be allowed to lounge around London for a couple of years?
Surely they could have been useful in North Africa or Italy!...How was
Beausejour allowed enter Britain, only for the British to later
discover she was dead? So much for their Gibraltar station!...why, upon
discovery, was she not used as a double agent, bearing in mind it was 2
months before D- Day? Now that could have been interesting!
<|_=00=_|>
A Franco/Canadian secret mission is an unusual twist for a WWII story.
This and the setting of the first part of "Allied" reminded me of "The
English Patient". Canadian Max (Pitt) is sent to Casablanca for a
dangerous mission. Marianne (Cotillard) is the French agent already in
place to help him.

Out of the desert and in London, "Allied" moves into a different
territory, albeit still with plenty of style. Max and Marianne's
wartime romance in exotic settings turns into a real family, but doubts
arise about Marianne's identity.

London during the war as the main setting for two thirds of the movie
looked very realistic. I did not mind what could be the historical
inaccuracy of the Blitz, because the bombing added a layer of drama to
the story.

I particularly liked the scene during the party, with Sing, Sing Sing
playing in the background. It is a slightly menacing tune and it
complemented perfectly the atmosphere of tension, suspicion and slight
desperation.

Even if I have never been a Brad Pitt fan, he did a good job playing
quiet Max, a man of a few words who sees his new world disintegrating.
One can easily imagine him as a long-term bachelor falling for the
beautiful, brave French partisan. Cotillard was also convincing as the
ambiguous "femme fatale". Contrary to what some reviewers wrote, plenty
of chemistry between the two, but also tenderness.

If you like movies with a solid plot, linear storytelling, believable
characters, difficult choices, great costumes and soundtrack, then you
should like this.

P.S. couple of remarks: Pitt's French was not the best and no way he
could have passed for Parisian, but that did not bother me too much.
The final scene is a couple of minutes too long, but again, not a major
problem. However, what a relief to follow a good plot without the zig-
zagging in time, overused but often useless editing style.
<|_=00=_|>
The Academy Award-winning 1942 motion picture Casablanca has become a
legend of filmmaking, almost a part of folklore, by being as perfect a
movie as is possible. A triumph of cohesion, not a scene or a line of
dialogue is wastedevery single word and frame of film points to the
climactic scene in which most of the the cast is present, all plot
lines are resolved, and all the picture's mysteries solvedand which
many film fans have memorized and can recite, word-for-word. 

Robert Zemeckis, the director of Paramount's Allied, apparently
believes that by fashioning his film on Casablanca, some of the magic
of the 1942 picture will rub off on his. It doesn't. And that's a
shame, because if the picture were truly a sum of its parts, Allied
would be a wonderful experience. 

But unlike Casablanca, the individual scenes of Allied do not add up to
a complete picture. Rather, the diverse parts of the movie look as if
they've been snipped from other, better pictures, and cobbled together
by screenwriter Steven Knight for Zemeckis to direct. 

Zemeckis, originally a Steven Spielberg protégé and an acknowledged
expert on older movies, gets into the spirit of Knight's script by
designing and positioning his shots in a manner reminiscent of scenes
from other popular movies. As a director, Robert Zemeckis has always
been more derivative than innovative, and any viewer who's seen Algiers
or The English Patient, or even Out of Africa or Gone With the Wind,
will likely leave Allied with a sense of déjà vu, a nagging suspicion
that he or she has seen has seen the picture somewhere else. 

In Allied, a crack Canadian counterintelligence agent played by Brad
Pitt parachutes into French Morocco during the early days of World War
II and makes his way to Casablanca to rendezvous with a member of the
French resistance, played by Marion Cotillard. Their mission is to do
some spy stuff together and then scoot back to London. Naturally they
fall in love. And that's just the beginning of a picture which
stretches credibility more and more with each of its passing 124
minutes. 

Allied is a triumph of production design and costuming, but that's
really not saying all that much. Pitt and Cotillard are attractive
people and they look swell in the picture. When you dress them up in
the smartest retro-chic wardrobe and set them loose in the trendiest
wartime nightclubs in Casablanca, they look as if they just stepped
from the pages of the Giorgio Armani catalogalthough during the
daytime scenes they sport elaborate sunglasses which almost scream Hey,
we're spies! 

Which leads to another difficulty with Allied: The anachronisms. In any
motion picture, authenticity is essential to maintaining a successful
illusion. In Allied, that's where the seams really begin to show. Key
sequences take place during nighttime German bombing raids over London
in 1942 through 1944yes, the movie does cover some ground. But nobody
seems to realize that the last major German bombing raids on London
occurred fairly early in 1941, before Hitler turned east and attacked
the Soviet Union. 

But that's incidental to a picture in which World War II is little more
than a plot device to enable the characters to participate illogically
in exciting adventures. At one point, for narrow personal reasons
Pitt's character steals an RAF airplane and dashes off to occupied
France, and then promptly upon arrival accidentally instigates a melee
between the French resistance and German soldiers.

In the very next scene, Pitt astonishingly appears back in London
looking somewhat the worse for wearexhausted and stylishly disheveled,
but without an explanation of what happened to his companions in France
or how he got back to England in such a big fat hurry. In reality, had
the officer made it back alive he'd undoubtedly have been
court-martialed. Pitt's character apparently works for an especially
casual branch of the wartime military.

And in fact, Pitt's performance begins and ends with his physical
appearance and his costuming. The actor looks properly dapper and
dashing in his military uniform, and his formal attire and civilian
clothing are stylish. But any real attempt at characterization seems to
have been left behind either in Pitt's dressing room or in the
supermarket tabloids. 

Marion Cotillard, a genuinely talented actress who received an Academy
Award for her performance as Edith Piaf in 2007's La Vie en Rose, reads
her linesespecially the occasional subtitled French-language
dialoguewith spirit and conviction. But she seems distracted, as if
she's trying to remember somewhere else she's supposed to be. 

In one early scene, Pitt's character is described by Cotillard as a
poker-playing expert. As a test, a German agent gives Pitt a deck of
cards to shuffle. After a brief pause to gain suspenseCan he do
it?Pitt's character spends the next minute or two performing card
maneuvers mesmerizing enough to make Houdini proud. 

But the filmmakers don't even bother to create the illusion that it's
Pitt performing the tricks. Only in the last shot of the scene, in
which the actor himself performs one clumsy little shuffle, does Pitt's
face appear in the same shot as the cards. 

That scene can serve as a metaphor for the entire picture. Essentially
Allied is a clumsy diversion, a sleight-of-hand trick to distract the
viewer from the fact that he's seen it all before, in better movies.
Allied is a dumb movie masquerading as a smart one. If you want to see
attractive people in stylish clothes and colorful situations, this is
the movie for you. But if you want to see a compelling, believable
drama about wartime romance, skip it. 

Or better yet, just watch Casablanca again.
<|_=00=_|>
Overall,it's a pretty good movie.

I just love the style of the picture. Generally that World War 2 era
has that glamorous style to it, and leave it to Robert Zemeckis to add
that extra kick.

Although I've Seen better costumes but this maybe because Canada did
not have the best uniforms out of the WWII crowd.

And that made this movie strangely interesting. The 1st movie I ever
seen about Canada's involvement in the War. Maybe I have seen others
but it's so rare that it makes this movie seem unique that the story is
about a Canadian wing commander who falls in love and builds a life
with a woman who may not be all that she claims.

Speaking of which, The best part of the movie is that drama. Though I
love the art direction as it puts me in That WWII setting, the visual
effects do a good job of placing you right there, but the drama coming
from Brad Pitt and Marion Cotillard's connection on camera. It's this
connection that's the most important and makes the movie what it is,
and the emotion baggage is well worth it.

So not much of a war epic or an espionage movie as I went to see if for
but it's a great love story set perfectly and beautifully in a
different time and place worthy of checking out.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1942, during the World War II, the Canadian spy Max Vatan (Brad
Pitt) goes parachuting to the French Morocco to meet the French spy
Marianne Beauséjour (Marion Cotillard) that is posing of his wife in
Casablanca. Their mission is to assassinate the German Ambassador in a
reception. They live together for a couple of days and soon they fall
in love with each other. When Max returns to his base in London, he
brings Marianne and marries her. One year later, they have the baby
daughter Anna during a bombing. One day, Max is summoned for a meeting
in the feared V Section with his commander officer Frank Heslop (Jared
Harris) and a secret service agent that tells that they suspect
Marianne is a German Spy. Further, they will give a fake order to him
to confirm whether Marianne is a spy or not. If she is, Max shall
execute his beloved wife; otherwise they will be both executed. What
will Max do?

"Allied" is a good film directed by Robert Zemeckis with a story with
lots of action, romance and drama. The awesome performances of Marion
Cotillard and Brad Pitt with magnificent support cast give credibility
to the story. The beauty of Marion Cotillard is perfect for a story in
the 40's. The scenes are very well balanced with intense action,
romance and drama. The journey of Max Vatan to find whether his wife is
a German spy or not is outstanding and the conclusion is magnificent.
My vote is seven.

Titles (Brazil): "Aliados" ("Allied")
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Every writer, director and actor
dreams of being part of the next Casablanca  a timeless movie beloved
by so many. It's rare to see such a blatant homage to that classic, but
director Robert Zemekis (Oscar winner for Forrest Gump) and writer
Steven Knight (Dirty Pretty Things, Eastern Promises) deliver their
version with an identical setting, nearly identical costumes, and the
re-use of a song ("La Marseillaise") which played such a crucial role.

Spy movies typically fall into one of three categories: action
(Bourne), flashy/stylish (Bond), or detailed and twisty (Tinker Tailor
Soldier Spy). This one has offers a dose of each blended with some
romance and a vital "is she or isn't she" plot. The "she" in that last
part is French Resistance fighter Marianne Beausejour played by Marion
Cotillard. Her introduction here is a thing of beauty, as she floats
across the room thrilled to be reuniting with her husband Max Vatan. Of
course the catch is that Max is really a Canadian Agent and their
marriage is a cover for their mission to assassinate a key Nazi. Yes,
it's 1942 in Morocco.

The two agents work well together and it's no surprise when this
escalates to a real romance between two beautiful and secretive people.
It seems only natural that after killing Nazi's and making love in a
car during a ferocious sandstorm that the next steps would be marriage,
a move to London, and having a kid. It's at this point where viewers
will be divided. Those loving the action-spy approach will find the
London segment slows the movie to a crawl. Those who prefer
intelligence gathering and intrigue may very well enjoy the second half
more. 

What if your assignment was to kill your beloved wife if she were
deemed to be a double-agent? Max finds himself in this predicament, and
since no one ever says what they mean in the community of spies, he
isn't sure if the evidence is legit or if it's really a game to test
his own loyalty. This second half loses sight of the larger picture of
war, and narrows the focus on whether Max can prove the innocence of
Marianne  of course without letting her know he knows something  or
might know something.

Marion Cotillard is stellar in her role. She flashes a warm and
beautiful smile that expertly masks her true persona. The nuance and
subtlety of her performance is quite impressive. Mr. Pitt does a nice
job as the desperate husband hiding his desperation, but his role
doesn't require the intricacies of hers. Supporting work comes via
Jared Harris, Lizzy Caplan, August Diehl, Marion Bailey, Simon
McBurney, and Matthew Goode.

The Zemekis team is all in fine form here: Cinematographer Don Burgess
captures the feel of the era, Composer Alan Silvestri never tries to
overpower a scene, and Costume Designer Joanna Johnston is likely
headed for an Oscar nomination. For a spy movie, the story is actually
pretty simple and the tension is never over-bearing like we might
expect. While watching the performance of Ms. Cotillard, keep in mind
her most telling line of dialogue: "I keep the emotions real." It's a
strategy that is a bit unusual in her world. How effective it is will
be determined by the end of the movie.
