
Not what I was expecting, *spoiler alert* franchise killed lightning
McQueen, he never recovers to race again. Huge disappointment for my
son, it was literally the death of lightning McQueen.

Lightning McQueen then goes on to become the youngest trainer in
history bringing to an end his career as lightning McQueen. McQueen
gives his position to a trainer that is older than the newer model
Jackson Storm, she happens to be a girl. So my son is waiting for hero
to pull through and then gets shot down by McQueen giving up. The spot
McQueen gives up is won by a trick and not by speed. My son is not
going to cheer for a new when the old is no more. Definitely early
death of number 95. Very depressing movie. The trailer was definitely
misleading.
<|_=00=_|>
There are so many disappointments with this film, I don't know where to
begin. So I'll start hereÂ…first, the tag-line that, "you can't turn
back time, but you can wind it up again" is not mentioned at all by any
character in this film. As it turns out, Lightning can't wind it up
again. **SPOILER ALERT** In fact, he is too old to finish the race and
needs a young girl car to do it for him. Did Disney not learn anything
from The Simpsons?? You don't have to age animated characters. From the
previews, I was led to believe that Lightning would wreck, overcome his
impediments to win the race and show us all that we can do anything we
put our minds to. Instead, Disney, was so busy being PC by making a
girl win that they actually WERE being ageist. When you pay to see
Lightning win, and he doesn't cross that finish line, you have failed
as writers. I will now move on to the poor characterization of Cruz.
From the color chosen for her, her dialogue, her lack of humor or
connection-she was flat. 

Doesn't Disney have ENOUGH female heroes-heroines?? Did they have to
retire one of the very FEW males-Lightning?? This was a colossally
stupid decision.

I guess Disney did not consult any child psychologists-or anyone with
children-to find out that boys like cars more than girls. They have
effectively ended their franchise. I feel the fizzle out coming. So
much for the next generation of Lightning McQueen fans-I doubt many
girls are going to be asking for race tracks with Cruz for Christmas.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to like this movie based on the earlier ones and took my
kids... was I wrong, it was awful. The whole movie is based on the red
car trying to get his mojo back because he's too old or needs work, and
in the end he basically quits. And still gets called the "winner." I
don't like to overly analyze movies or entertainment and will watch and
enjoy things with any reasonable message about self-empowerment, until
that entertainment tries to shove a ridiculous message at people ---
defeatist. More or less inane level propaganda, and about how NOT to
succeed at something at that. If you want to see a real comeback movie,
and one that makes a little sense, just rent any Rocky. 1 through 7 (or
whatever they are on....) There are tons of other good ones.
<|_=00=_|>
In which movie does the main protagonist chickens out before the final
showdown (boss fight or the race in this case) and says to his trainer
that you have been training with me so you can go and win it for me.

The whole point of the movie is that Mcqueen gets to decide when he
should retire and so he trains hard to beat the rookie and just before
the final race he turns to his trainer asks her to race in his place.

F**kers i went to watch the movie expecting that it will be about a
comeback story of Mcqueen and not how he is forced to retire.
<|_=00=_|>
When Cars the original came out I was seven years old I followed the
"trilogy" to where I am now 18 and let me tell you something... this
was not how I wanted lightning to end his career I mean Jesus was this
movie awful. I would rather have watched the big bang theory on repeat
for the rest of my life.
<|_=00=_|>
I warning you all right now SPOILER ALERT. So one might believe that
this film would be about lightning feeling bad after his big wreck and
wanting to train and work hard to beat the car that made him feel that
way but no it's about him training while everyone is tearing him down
with the excessive old age jokes, and telling him that he will never be
fast enough to beat the car who caused him to feel that way in the
first place but despite that lightning continues to train and failing
at every point which by this time who would think he would see some
progress but no it's quite the opposite he gets slower and the cherry
on it all toward the end of the movie it's the big race against the
character Storm so lightning starts the race after the first lap he
quits and sends in this flat character Cruz to take lightning's number
and finish the race despite the character Cruz has no racing experience
and she magically beats all the new racers including lightning's rival
Storm but it gets worse after the race lightning retires from
racing(despite throughout the whole movie him saying that he will never
retire) and lightning becomes Cruz's coach. It gave no closure to
lightning's story and not to mention the character Doc is dead without
any explanation but magically the truck that trained Doc and was older
than Doc was still alive which again makes no sense. So to sum it up
lightning retires and becomes a defeatist. Don't watch unless you want
your kids to be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Even my son was asking throughout then entire 1 hour middle portion of
the movie , "why aren't they racing, is he gonna race Jackson storm
...". I just kept saying yeah son eventually. Then it's the female that
ends up racing in the end and my 5 year old son experience his first
episode of disappointment and fraud. How do you explain to a 5 year old
that it's politics and the moral of the story is no longer innocent
heroic comebacks but now it's about equal opportunity and forcing ideas
on young minds. Kids just want to see a good , animated race movie AS
ADVERTISED!!! Instead it's 10 minutes of racing, and an hour and a half
of training and build up that leaves you asking yourself... did this
have to be nearly two hours long?! Garbage
<|_=00=_|>
The first Cars movie is a classic that will be enjoyed for a long time
to come. Cars 3 a has a few major problems. - We don't want to live in
or know about whatever 'new reality' this movie has created, where
Lightning isn't the fastest car anymore. We especially don't want to
know that there is an entire new generation of cars that are faster
than him. How depressing is that. - The movie has very little of the
heart, soul, and humor of the original. It has a very different feel,
with the 'next gen' cars speaking and acting like spoilt millennials.
Jackson Storm is a nasty piece of work. - If feels like the point of
the movie is to reinforce that 'girls can do anything' (like most
movies these days). That's all well and good, but it's not what we paid
money to actually go and see. We want to watch a movie about the
movie's actual hero and main character, Lightning Mcqueen. And we want
to see him win and NOT be depressed, old and slow most of the time.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see Cars 3 with my younger sister and, as a long-time Pixar
fan, I guess I have to finally face the music: Pixar movies are simply
not as good as before anymore. The first installment of Cars, even
though not as beloved as some of the studio's other efforts, was a
heartfelt and entertaining story for kids and adults alike. This, on
the other hand, was an incoherent mess with so much boring and
unnecessary dialogue it makes your head hurt after leaving the theater
(but you're still happy it's all over)

The movie kicks off with something I bet most kids won't even
understand: Lightning McQueen is old. Yup, right. Even though he looks
and sounds exactly the same, we have to accept he's old and can't
compete against modern, shiny race cars. Now I don't think that's a
good premise for a kids' movie, but it could give us adults something
to chew on, right? 

Well, no. Apparently what we have to do is spend our time observing
race simulators and a whole bunch of absolutely indistinguishable
secondary characters telling McQueen what to do in his situation, with
some race scenes thrown into the mix to keep us awake (although it had
a reverse effect on me). One of them (the Thunder Hollow Speedway) was
particularly messy and disturbing. It left my sister bewildered and
constantly asking why are these cars so evil and why they want to kill
each other.

Oh, and about an hour into the movie we understand that Cruz, an
annoying yellowish "coach" car who apparently doesn't know how to race
at all, is a main character, too, and the story isn't even about
McQueen proving he still got it, but about this new car, who isn't even
a race car at all, magically defeating all those big bad new racers
simply because girl power. Well, I'm a girl and I'm not impressed. 

Boring story, boring characters, and an ending that defies logic even
in the world of sentient vehicles; I'm pretty sure that's the end of
Cars franchise, and despite fond memories of the first movie, all I
have to say is good riddance.
<|_=00=_|>
My son was born in 2006, we watched first movie maybe a hundred times,
and second one several times. Cars was like Star Wars for us. And 3rd
movie? At the end of the movie my 11 years old son was so upset to see
Mc Queen as a retiring loser car, he only said: "I'll never talk about
Mc Queen, this is the end". Bugs Bunny does not get old, why did you
have to retire Mc Queen so early? And we hate that yellow car, Cruz, it
can never replace Mc Queen. Mc Queen is red, how could you turn it to
blue?! This movie is a big disappointment, we'll try to forget it
