
Maybe I'm getting old. These over-serious, platitude-filled teen dramas
used to only mildly annoy me. Now, with Paper Towns, I feel myself
getting irrationally angry at its desperate plea to be this
generation's The Breakfast Club. From where is that resentment coming?
Maybe it's that I'm a 30-year-old married-father who's not meant to
like this movie. Maybe it's that I'm coming off the high of the teen
drama Me and Earl and the Dying Girl. Whatever it is, Paper Towns
irritated much more than it charmed. The premise has potential: nerd
spends one magically frivolous night with the enigmatic girl of his
dreams, Margot, before she inexplicably disappears. Instead of being
unique, stylish, or progressive, it becomes the lament of the
rich-white-teen and the manic pixie dream girl. Our "hero" is drawn to
her magnetic mystery, but that appeal never reaches the audience. At
times, she represents an idea more than a character, but mostly she's
an unbearably selfish, manipulative shrew, using her womanly wiles to
get whatever she needs. When she's off-screen, the interplay between
the friends is watchable, but her bothersome presence is never far
away. Worst yet, in the end PT never takes a stance on Margot, like the
movie is trying to have its cake and eat it too. Stylistically, the
movie is forcefully quirky, annoyingly cutesy, and boasts a soundtrack
that's like someone pushed the "hipster" button on a Casio Keyboard. We
can only blame director Schreier, whose previous film was the
under-seen Robot and Frank. Just stay home and watch that, a story
about a machine with more humanity than anyone in PT.
<|_=00=_|>
"Paper Towns" is that kid in the lunchroom who acts different and seems
cool but it isn't until you talk to him that you realize he adheres to
all the social conventions and routines of life that you thought he was
rebelling against. It's the kind of film that feels like it was written
by an adolescent girl cherrypicking reblogged Tumblr quotes from her
wall to suffice as the theme for the film. It's the kind of film you'll
love if you find the idea of "getting lost to find yourself" a profound
concept.

"Paper Towns," finally, is the kind of film where the love interest is
named Margo Roth Spiegelman (Cara Delevingne), whose vacuous
personality is mistaken for mystery and enigma. She is defined by her
absent gazes into the world, her love for "random capitalization" in
her writing because "the rules are so unfair to the letters in the
middle of words," and her statements about her town, Orlando, Florida,
being a paper town with "paper houses and paper people." 

She also happens to be the apple of Quentin's (the former "Naked
Brothers Band" lead singer Nat Wolff) eye since she moved in his
subdivision when they were young; he considers living next to her his
sole miracle in life. However, the two have significantly drifted since
their youthful days of innocence, until one night when Margo climbs
into his window and says that she has nine things to do that night and
needs a getaway driver. Stunned that the love of his life has waltzed
through his window for the first time in years, Quentin takes Margo and
peels off in his minivan to exact revenge on Margo's cheating boyfriend
and her friends who didn't help her in her time of need.

Upon having the greatest night of his life, Quentin wakes up the next
morning and sees Margo isn't at school that day, and eventually,
notices she's missing the entire week. Her parents aren't concerned,
for Margo does this a lot, but Quentin and his friends - the incessant
Ben (Austin Abrams) and the geeky "Radar" (Justice Smith) - begin to
uncover clues as to why Margo may have disappeared and where to. With
that, the three teens, including Margo's best friend Lacey (Halston
Sage) and Radar's girlfriend Angela (Jaz Sinclair), try to track down
her whereabouts.

"Paper Towns"'s immediate problem is it's nowhere as intelligent or
witty as it thinks it is. Its themes are all rehashed to the point of
breeding contempt and its characters, particularly Margo, are so
broadly drawn that they work against the film, which is clearly trying
to breathe that fabled freshness into the teen film genre (it always
feels like Quentin's going to stop the film with his narration saying
the dreaded "this isn't your average teen movie" line).

Strangely, though, the most contemptible character throughout this
whole film is Margo for more reasons than her empty personality. She's
the kind of person who thinks it's okay to drop her friends and family
without giving them any inkling as to what's wrong with her because
she's trying to find herself. Finally, when somebody does something for
her, particularly Quentin, she takes it with a grain of salt and goes
about selfishly trying to advance herself rather than consider what she
means to others. She's on the verge of growing up and being Amy
Schumer's Amy character from "Trainwreck," a contemptible, lost soul
who takes advantage of people she meets.

Furthermore, the humor of "Paper Towns" is another thing that's
frustrating. One moment, the film is trying to wow you with a "deep"
dialogue about what lies beneath the surface of people, and the next, a
character accidentally spills a can in which he urinated into all over
himself and his friends. Once more, this is a film that's trying to be
one thing but can't escape what it ultimately is: trite, frequently
immature, and mostly empty exercise that has nothing revolutionary to
say despite thinking it does.

However, don't fault the cast here, for they clearly give it their best
shot. Their energy and charisma bring to life more than writers Scott
Neustadter and Michael H. Weber (who wrote "The Spectacular Now," a
film you should see instead of this one) do. Nat Wolff, an actor I've
consistently admired for his good-natured, everyboy appearance and
personality, does strong work here in that realm and is assisted by
capable performers like Smith and Sage (Delevingne would likely be
better if she had a character to play).

"Paper Towns" is cut from the same cloth as "The Fault in Our Stars"
(author John Green, who wrote the book on which this film is based,
also wrote that one and Neustadter and Weber also penned that
screenplay) in that it tries to take a different direction for its
adolescent characters but crumbles under the lackluster deviations from
reality it so often takes. On top of that, unlike "The Fault in Our
Stars," which was burdened by sentimentality and cringeworthy attempts
at a perceived coolness, "Paper Towns" winds up being precisely what it
didn't want to be - a paper film.
<|_=00=_|>
When reviewing a movie based on a book, should the reviewer make the
movie's story part of the commentary, even if the movie's plot matches
the book's plot closely? I say yes. And I'll go even further. I don't
think it's necessary for the reviewer to read the book before reviewing
the movie. Here's why: A movie reviewer reviews movies, not books. A
movie has to stand on its own, whether the viewer has read the book or
not (and, usually, the majority haven't). Now, if I haven't read the
book, after I see the movie, I'll do some background research on the
differences between the two so I can include that information in my
review, but I'm still only going to judge aspects of the movie as they
contribute to the whole. Take the movie "Paper Towns" (PG-13, 1:49) for
example. Although I haven't read the book, I have read enough about the
book to compare them, but I'm still only judging what appeared on
screen.

I say all that to say this: "Live life to the fullest." There. I just
saved you almost two hours. That's really all this movie is about.
Didn't care for the story. Didn't care for the movie. Still, I do owe
you more than that, so, as always, I'll tell you about the actors and
the plot (without spoilers), I'll explain the grade I've given the
movie, including what I think wasn't good and what was good (because,
after all, there's some of both in almost every movie). And whether you
think the book was better than the movie or the movie was better than
the book is irrelevant. This is a movie review. Ya feel me? Cool.
Onward and upward The movie takes its title from the 2008 book by John
Green (author of "The Fault in Our Stars"). In the eyes of one of the
story's central characters, paper towns are cities in which people
("paper people") go about their hum-drum lives without really living.
The title also carries a literal real-world meaning. The title is a
reference to the cartographers' practice of putting fake places onto
the maps they make to deter copyright infringement (or catch anyone who
does such infringing). These plagiarism traps have several names,
including paper towns. One such paper town is Agloe (in New York
State's Catskill Mountains), which is where the story's climax takes
place. But the story begins in Orlando, Florida.

Quentin "Q" Jacobsen (Nat Wolff) fell in love with Margo Roth
Spiegelman (model-singer-actress Cara Delevingne) when her family moved
in across the street from his. Both kids were in elementary school, but
it was love at first sight for him. It was friendship for her and then
it wasn't even that. Q and Margo drifted apart. As high school seniors,
they don't even acknowledge each other anymore. She's beautiful,
free-spirited and mysterious (as she has always been) and hangs out
with the other popular kids. Q is socially awkward and the opposite of
adventurous and hangs out with his two best friends and fellow band
students, Ben Starling (Austin Abrams) and Marcus "Radar" Lincoln
(Justice Smith).

The action really starts one night when Margo crawls in through Q's
bedroom window and asks to borrow his car to pull revenge pranks on her
cheating boyfriend and others whom she feels have betrayed her. Q
reluctantly agrees to be her getaway driver, and even helps a bit. Over
the course of the night, he admits that he had fun and he begins to
hope that this experience will rekindle his dormant friendship with
Margo and maybe lead to something more. His hopes are soon dashed when
Margo goes missing. Her parents believe that she has run away (for the
fifth time), and now that she's 18, they aren't even going to look for
her. Both Q and Lacey Pemberton (Halston Sage), Margo's best friend,
want to know what happened to Margo, but they haven't a clue yet.

"Margo always loved mysteries," Q tells us in his brief narration at
the beginning of the film. "So much that she became one." Margo may be
a gone girl, but she left clues, which lead Q, Ben and Radar to search
Margo's room, take her bedroom door off its hinges, go to an abandoned
building in a shady part of town and, eventually take a long road trip,
joined by Radar's girlfriend, Angela (Jaz Sinclair) and Lacey, on whom
Ben has a crush (when he's not lusting after Q's mother). Through all
this, the film omits some of the episodes in the book (as almost all
film adaptations have to do), but keeps all the most important plot
points (including the ending), as well as the "moral of the story".

"Paper Towns" has a worthwhile message, but takes as long to get there
as driving from Florida to New York. The story's original enough, but
it's highly unrealistic. The actors are appealing and the film treats
the teens like real people, but they seem abnormally worldly for their
ages and their angst sometimes annoyingly plays out as nothing more
than (mostly) spoiled rich white kids complaining about their lives.
Lastly, after emotionally investing (as much I could) in these
characters, as well as almost two hours of my time, I found the ending
frustrating. "Paper Towns" is as disappointing as a sightseeing trip to
Agloe, New York. "C"
<|_=00=_|>
Coming on the heels of its commercially-successful predecessor, 'The
Fault in Our Stars', PAPER TOWNS is no heavy tearjerker, but it echoes
more affectionate and piercing sentiments, with its lighter, minimalist
take of its recognizable subjects.

The film follows Quentin (Nat Wolff) , or "Q" as he is more popularly
called, a highschool boy who has been nursing an unrequited love for
the girl living next door, Margo (Cara Delevigne) since childhood. Even
after when they turn 12, when Margo suddenly becomes distant, "Q" never
loses the affection, and it only becomes even stronger when one day she
climbs again to his window, the way she did when they were still kids.
The next events follow an eager "Q" savoring the moment as he escorts
Margo in her series of "small revenge" against those she thinks have
betrayed her, including her ex-boyfriend. But the levitating moment
would only last overnight, because the next day, the ever mystifying
Margo, disappears.

Mining on the same overly familiar material that dwells on both
coming-of-age and teenage romance territories, PAPER TOWNS pulls off
two easily-recognizable efforts: maintaining 'The Fault's charm, while
toning down its tragic notions. The latter of which, yields a more
tangible and heartwarming result, capable of conjuring a lasting tug at
the heartstrings. The credit for this goes to its equally-charming yet
capable actors, both of whom teeming with fresh and enigmatic
likability. It will also sound unforgivable to never pay regard to the
film's brilliant screenwriters who manage to cleverly highlight this
extremely familiar highschool tale's stronger and more relatable
sentiments, genuinely and sincerely enough, to bend fragile emotions
with crippling capacity.

"Q"'s road trip in finding Margo represents a bigger journey with far
wider scope and meaning, and it comes across as a process of personal
exploration that unknowingly liberates one self, toward finding the
deeper sense of their existence. Hardly that the questions thrown get
resolved, but the charming and sincere take of its proceedings, will
ultimately make the narrative arrive to a satisfying conclusion. This
doesn't mean it's able to satisfy its own queries, but the resolution
delivered are nonetheless, reliable and honest.

PAPER TOWNS will come across as a witty, yet touching case of a 'lost
and found'. Much of it is spent in searching for the 'lost', a
liberating process that frees its seekers from every question that
unfolds in the wake of a previous other, but the 'found', though never
really answers any of the previous questions, will deliver a
surprisingly satisfying, and never less of a rewarding, answer.
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't read the book, but in the forums someone said that the
ending, and through it ultimately the meaning, of the book was quite
different. According to that individual the book ends with Quentin
realising that Margo is not the deep and interesting girl that he
created in his own head. 

I don't know if such an ending would have been better but it at least
would have been more interesting than the bland ending we got. There
would have been some drama with Quentin seeing his illusions smashed.
Instead he just realises she doesn't like him. And then it ends.

Margo was my biggest problem of this film. Besides that, the film was
very enjoyable and funny. You really wanted to spend time with Quentin
and his friends because they felt real. Unlike Margo who just felt like
a character from a children's adventure book.

Which brings me back to my original point. Margo starts out as the
Manic Pixie Dream Girl. By the end she could have become human. But she
doesn't. So when you compare her to all the other characters in this
film it's like they come from completely different worlds.

Paper Towns is, overall, a good film but the ending completely ruins
the entire story and the themes that it was building.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start out by saying I never read the book, so I can't possibly
have any beef in that area. I also didn't see TFIOS previous to this,
so I can't compare. However, I was extremely unimpressed by this movie
overall.

I was impressed when the anti-climax came, and Margo basically just
told Quentin, "Hey, you're crazy for coming all this way. Nothing I did
actually was meant for you in any way." At this point, I was thinking,
that's pretty ballsy for them to lead all the way up to this nihilistic
shattering of idealism for Quentin.

And then they just half-assed it.

I was disappointed when the ending came and they tried to sort of flip
it around, like, "Wait, no, it DOES have meaning, see? They had fun!"
If they had stuck to the tone of that scene with Margo and Quentin in
the parking lot, I would've given this a 6 or a 7 out of 10, even
though the rest was just average.

I liked some of the other characters' small changes and the flirting
with the idea that they're all going away to college to never see each
other, but Quentin's character arc was simply not there. He started as
just a spectator, and ended as just a spectator.

Overall, I give this a 5/10 for just being a mediocre movie overall,
and the pacing feeling a bit strange sometimes.
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't read John Green's novel which the film "Paper Towns" is based
on, but I note that the plot description of the novel in Wikipedia is
remarkably similar to the film adaptation. Thus it appears that the
film is a faithful rendering of the novel. Despite an immensely likable
cast, I can only conclude that the fault with the narrative is due to
the weakness of the original source material.

The protagonist is one Quentin "Q" Jacobsen, a denizen of suburban
Orlando, who has been pining away for his next-door-neighbor, Margo
Roth Spiegelman, since childhood. We learn that the childhood friends
have grown apart by the time they've reached adolescence, so Quentin is
quite surprised when Margo climbs through his bedroom window with a
proposal unbecoming of a protagonist's love object.

Right away, Margo is disqualified as a likable character when she
conscripts puppy dog Quentin in a revenge campaign against a boyfriend
who has jilted her. And this is supposed to be the enigmatic rebel who
later disappears and we're supposed to care about for the rest of the
film? No need to rehash all of Margo's hijinks but the main point is
that Quentin is so smitten with his neighbor the "rebel" that he's
willing to risk a felony charge of breaking and entering in order curry
favor with a girl he's fallen head over heels for.

After Margo disappears, Act 2 is all about Quentin teaming up with his
two buddies, Ben and Radar, along with Margo's estranged friend, Lacey,
and Radar's girlfriend, Angela, to find Quentin's missing love
interest. Margo leaves clues which eventually lead the group to an
abandoned mini-mall where further clues are found. Then the group is
off to upstate New Yorkalong the way Lacey promises Ben she'll go with
him to the prom and Radar loses his virginity with Angela.

Upon arrival Margo is nowhere to be found and the group sans Quentin
decides to high tail it back to Orlando in order to attend the prom.
Finally, Quentin bumps into Margo just as he's buying a bus ticket to
go back home. After waiting all this time for the dramatic climax, it
turns out that Margo ran away simply to find herself (where she got the
cash to support herself while on the run is never revealed). Quentin
realizes that he had put Margo on a pedestal and that his infatuation
with his childhood buddy was not productive. 

Nat Wolff as Quentin (who does a neat "Jimmy Stewart" impression along
the way) may one day fill the shoes of the iconic actor. And Carla
Delevingne (a dead ringer for either one of the Hemingway sisters), is
sure to find notable roles in the Hollywood system in the future.
Despite the likable cast, there is nothing about Margo, the principal
love interest, that is the least bit interesting. The revelation at
film's end that she's just an "ordinary teenager" who needs to find
herself, is hardly the stuff of high drama. "Paper Towns" suffers from
a lack of imagination on the part of Mr. Green, whose ordinary tale of
teenage angst, fails to impress for all of its meandering 109 minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
Paper Towns. Paper Movie. For all its talk about those flat, hollow,
deceiving facades, Paper Towns very quickly became what it seemingly
tries to warn against. I feel swindled, conned, beguiled, paper mooned,
pun intended! I was promised a whimsical, memorable, romantic romping
young hearts, teenage adventure, a racing love story, risking it all,
faint of heart never won fair lady and such! However, after a
confusing, long, rather uneventful, and at times painfully awkward two
hours, right when we've reached her, this woman of mystery and
intrigue, who our shy hero has risked it all to find, there
is............ nothing. No big, dramatic declaration, no tear-filled
fantasy ending. No Magic. Paper Towns. Paper Love. It was like coming
up empty handed at the end of the rainbow. Where is the whimsy, the
destiny, the fleeting promise this movie had in the preview? Where were
the passionate, young romantics, the real people that found each other
in a paper world? Or did those shining figures exist only in our minds,
were they paper stars that readily deceived? The best part for me was
when Mr. Augustus Waters made an adorably unexpected cameo, a lovely
reminder of what a REAL love story was the genuine gold value, that
this paper, soulless, disposable nothing paled against. It's baffling
to me, that the ingenious, and powerfully compelling Fault in Our
Stars, and this cruel trick of a caper, Paper Towns were both penned by
the same man. In truth, the moment I saw Gus, it made me wish I was
watching his movie instead. This could have been a brilliant,
spontaneous, wonder of a film, if its execution and ending had not so
instantly caught fire. Well, then again, what better tinder for fire
than ........ paper.
<|_=00=_|>
My first glance towards Paper Towns I had high hopes, and after
joyfully watching the movie I feel fulfilled. The ending is to me
utmost fitting and appropriate. My last glance shows the movie rating a
7/10, and Im not sure why. Acting was terrific and I believe the
casting was a hammer hitting the nail on the head. I believe once you
put your phone away and any distractions and focus on the emotions of
the characters in depth you will feel many feelings you have hopefully
felt in your lifetime.

The movie seems like something teenagers would flock to in high school
with their sweethearts on a first date trying to find a romantic movie
but someone for an example 25 years of age having experienced all those
feelings can hopefully watch the movie and recall memories of love and
trying to find your place in life.

*(THE GOOD) Casting great, movie pace well kept, no major "now how in
the hell would that happen", and ending realistic and honest.

*(THE BAD) Nothing, go watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
Paper Towns is another coming-of-age story about Quentin and his
neighbour Margo and how here mysterious disappearance sends Quentin on
a journey to find her through clues she left behind for him. Now i love
a good coming-of-age story, so when one is done right and is new and
interesting it will probably be something i choose to watch more than
once. Unfortunately this will not be one i am eager to re-watch but it
is still a good, strong attempt at one of these films but it seems to
get lost a few times along the way in terms of its storytelling. I'll
start with the characters and performances, because i feel they were
definitely the best parts of the film and added so much to making the
film pretty enjoyable. Nat Wolff was great at playing Quentin, a shy
awkward guy who had a signs of a lot of personality but needed the
right people to bring it out. You really get to connect with his
character as they made him come across as very real and not like a
character per se. I may say that often but there are so many young
actors really showing off their best stuff in these smaller personal
films. Cara Delevingne was also great as Margo who was also quite odd
and mysterious but was also very out there and confident at the same
time, a great contrast to Nat's character. The rest of the supporting
cast were also well acted, their distinct personalities were at times
used for some cheap comedic relief but also had a greater purpose in
adding to the complexity of our main character.

The first act of this film is really where the film gets to shine. You
get the introduction to these characters (Quentin and Margo) and get to
see their relationship and how it has changed and affected both these
characters in the lead up to the events in the film. Watching them
interact and bond was fascinating and charming at times and was a
really good lead up into the events of the second act and understanding
their actions. It was fun, light-hearted and was setting itself up for
something great. All of the events so far had a fluid lead in to the
second act which became more of a mysterious adventure whilst still
trying to maintain that fun element somewhat unsuccessfully. The events
of the first act are what get you through the very long second act that
could have been cut down like 20 minutes. The second act was more
focused on building up Quentin's character and having him face some
tough and new decisions in his life. Although it was interesting and
you do want to see where his character goes it was a noticeable step
down from the fun light-hearted enjoyment in the beginning. There was
this great interesting relationship set up and you are eager to find
out how the film ties everything together, then you reach the third act
and all of the storytelling falls apart. 

For certain characters, their actions and reactions seem somewhat
justified but for some others they just felt like another character
entirely. There was nothing in the second act that really explained how
or why these characters made such a drastic change in reasoning or
personality. They try to explain it in the dying minutes but it was
very rushed and didn't fit with the rest of the film. The problem was
that there was no real progression from the events of the beginning to
the events in the end for some characters and that led me to believe
that the writers/directors knew how to approach certain sections but
were completely lost for others. I believe, they knew how they wanted
the film to begin and how to introduce these characters, and they also
knew how they wanted it to end and what themes they wanted to explore.
But what they didn't know was how to show that transition, and when a
film has the beginning, and has the end it can be hard to fill in the
guts of the film afterwards and show a distinct character progression.
That's just my theory but whatever happened the storytelling was a bit
of a mess. 

That being said, it was still a good enjoyable film that tried too hard
to be different or maybe not hard enough. It had great characters and
performances, a fantastic first act, an interesting second act and a
third act that didn't live up to what the rest of the film was building
up to. Humour didn't really work that often but kept the film from
becoming too dark, and there were signs of emotion but nothing that
really affects you. In the end, it's enjoyable but there are better
coming-of-age films out there (Boyhood / Me and Earl and the Dying
Girl). - 6.3
