
Don't be fooled by the title. Make sure you know what you're getting
yourself into when you watch this film. Bridge of Spies is literally
about the Cold War Bridge of Spies, where Soviet/US spies were
exchanged through negotiations. This is nothing like "The Americans"
(FX TV drama - for some high unrealistic and over-sexualized espionage
action - redirect here) and the most action-packed scene you will see
is Francis Gary Powers getting shot out of his U2 plane during his
mission. 

Bridge of Spies is really a historical/legal drama. And based on my
preliminary research, they seem to be getting most of their facts
right. Obviously a little bit embellished for Hollywood's sake, Bridge
of Spies does a fine job as a historical docudrama. There is a lot of
talking, but it's meaningful talking. At times, the film can be a
little slow {opening scene, especially}, but give it a chance and you
might enjoy it. History buffs like myself will definitely enjoy it. But
thrill-seekers, you're better off to see the new James Bond movie
instead.
<|_=00=_|>
A feel-good Cold War melodrama, Bridge of Spies is an absorbing
true-life espionage tale very smoothly handled by old pros who know
what they're doing. In its grown-up seriousness and basis in historical
conflict, Steven Spielberg's first feature since Lincoln three years
ago joins the list of the director's half-dozen previous "war" films,
but in its honoring of an American civilian who pulled off a smooth
prisoner exchange between the East and West during a very tense period,
the film generates an unmistakable nostalgia for a time when global
conflict seemed more clear-cut and manageable than it does now.
Spielberg's fourth collaboration with Tom Hanks, which world- premiered
at the New York Film Festival and opens commercially on October 16,
looks to generate stout box-office returns for Disney through the
autumn season. For people of Spielberg's generation, the early years of
the nuclear era and the stand-off between the United States and the
Soviet Union represents a significant part of the fabric of childhood.
With the passage of time, it's possible to tell stories of the time
without furnishing them with overt propagandistic overlays, and for
Westerners there is the added built-in appeal of the "we won" factor
and the perception that dealing with adversaries was so much simpler
then than it is now. As their focus in this impeccably rendered
recreation of a moment in history, most palpably represented by the
building of the Berlin Wall, Spielberg and screenwriters Matt Charman
and Ethan and Joel Coen have chosen a sort-of Atticus Finch of the
north, a principled, American Everyman insurance attorney unexpectedly
paged to represent a high-level Soviet spy caught in New York. There is
no question that Rudolf Abel (Mark Rylance) is guilty, but James B.
Donovan (Hanks), a proper and decent family man with a professional
dedication to his client and an abiding loyalty to the principles of
the U.S. Constitution, has a quick and intuitive read of any legal
situation and shrewdly stays at least one step ahead of the game in
almost any situation.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie hit me really strangely.

I was expecting a political drama about the cold war, and while indeed
it was that, I was not expecting to have so much fun and for Bridge of
Spies to be so humorous. 

The Coen brothers writing a movie Steven Spielberg would direct just
sounds like a winning combination and it really was. Sealing the deal,
was a great performance by Tom Hanks.

Tom Hanks does what he does best, by playing an everyday man in an
average life. James Donovan was just an insurance lawyer who gets
caught up in the middle of the Cold War. Bridge of Spies, starts him
off so normal and then turns his life into quite an adventure.

And I do mean adventure. In the hands of Spielberg, the movie's visuals
were large and epic. I was expecting this movie to feel more like his
last flick, Lincoln. Instead it feels more like Indiana Jones, as James
Donovan travels to Berlin at the time when the wall was being
completed. 

Watching Hanks play Donovan who is just swept into an overwhelming
situation and just keeps his cool and his charm is just highly
enjoyable. 

Totally loved Bridge of Spies, It's one of the best team ups between
Hanks and Spielberg and even though Lincoln was a great movie, Bridge
of Spies is everything Spielberg is capable of. So entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
Bridge Of Spies is a historical drama film starring Tom Hanks,
co-written by the Coen brothers, and directed by Steven Spielberg. Even
though its subject matter of the Cold War is something I know very
little about, I thoroughly enjoyed it and I am now more interested than
ever to learn more about it. I rank it among the best of Spielberg's
most recent movies.

In 1957, tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union during
the Cold War are at their peak. Spies from both the American CIA and
Soviet KGB are a major threat to the security of both world powers and
each side often resorts to hasty measures to stop any classified
information from being leaked. In Brooklyn, New York, Rudolf Abel is
arrested under the suspicion of being a spy. James B. Donovan (Tom
Hanks) is assigned as Abel's defence lawyer. However the idea of
defending a potential Soviet spy proves to be an unpopular and
difficult task for Donovan. Meanwhile, over in the Soviet Union, an
American spy plane pilot Francis Gary Powers is shot down and captured
by the KGB. As a means to ease tension between the two warring
countries, Donovan proposes a swap between the two prisoners of war,
Abel for Powers.

Despite containing barely any action scenes and being almost entirely
made up of talking, the film never feels boring or slow paced. This is
most likely due to the Coen brothers' clever screenplay and Steven
Spielberg's creative direction. There were many suspenseful moments
where it felt like the prisoner negotiations would go horribly wrong
and that kept me on the edge of my seat. Tom Hanks also gives another
memorable performance as James B. Donovan, once again proving his
versatility as an actor.

I rate it 8.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
There are combinations of film makers that make you confident, as you
pay your ticket price, that you are not going to be terribly
disappointed: Steven Spielberg directing; Tom Hanks taking the lead;
Janusz Kaminski behind the camera; Michael Kahn editing and a Coen
brothers script (with Matt Charmon (Suite Française)). And Bridge of
Spies doesn't disappoint, particularly for someone of my more advanced
years (I was born the year following the film's climatic events) who
remembers well the terror of potential nuclear catastrophe that hung
over the world through the 60's and 70's.

In a story based on true events, Hanks plays James Donovan (diverging
somewhat from reality here) as an insurance lawyer dragged by his firm
into defending Rudolf Abel, the accused Soviet spy played exquisitely
by British stage acting legend Mark Rylance. Against this backdrop, the
international blue touch paper is about to be lit by the shooting down
over Russia of Gary Powers (Austin Stowell from "Whiplash") in his U-2
spy plane (sorry  "article"). Donovan becomes instrumental in
unofficially negotiating on behalf of the US government the release of
Powers in East Berlin. The deal is jeopardized by his boy-scout
tendencies to also want to help another US captive Frederic Pryor (Will
Rogers).

I've read some negative reviews of this film in the papers that made me
quite cross, describing it as "yawnsome" and "sanctimoniously dull".
For me, nothing could be further from the truth and the packed Saturday
night audience I saw this with seemed equally gripped from beginning to
end, silent save for the odd laugh where some appropriate humor is
weaved into the story.

Tom Hanks is solid and believable as the fish-out-of-water lawyer,
albeit that the role is played with a large spoonful of patriotic
American sugar as Donovan trumpets about the importance of the
constitution over the lynch-mob mentality of the general public. Alan
Alda  great to see again on the big screen  channels his best
Hawkeye-style exasperation as Donovan's boss, looking for a clean and
quick conviction.

But it is Mark Rylance  an irregular player in movies, and due to
appear again in next year's "BFG"  who shines out as the acting star
of the film. His salubrious and calm turn as the cornered spy just
reeks of class and if he isn't nominated for a Best Supporting Actor
nomination for this then there is no justice. (A special 'casting
recognition award' to my wife Sue for spotting that the actress playing
Judge Byer's wife  Le Clanché du Rand  was Meg Ryan's mother in
Sleepless in Seattle 22 years ago!) 

The cinematography is superb with some gorgeous tracking shots and
framed scenes. Most outstanding of all is the scene depicting the
traumatic construction of the Berlin wall  long tracking shots in
greys and blues delivering a truly breathtaking piece of cinema. In
general I'd give a big shout-out to both the art department and the
special effects team in making the desolation of East Berlin feel so
real. It makes the similar scenes, that I commented positively on in
the recent "Man from U.N.C.L.E." seem like an amateur school
production.

The special effects team also contribute in making the shooting down of
the U-2 a thrilling piece of cinema.

Music is sparingly and effectively used by Thomas Newman, and it can be
no greater complement to the composer than that I was wondering until
the end titles as to whether it was another Spielberg/ John Williams
collaboration or not.

A great film, one of my favorites this year. Highly recommended,
especially if you are over 50. You should also get out to a cinema to
see this one  it will be far more effective on the big screen than the
small one.

(Please visit http://bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical version of
this review. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
One of the surprising things about Bridge of Spies is not really that
Steven Spielberg directed this story, which tracks the trial and then
trade of a Russian spy in 1957 (an exchange for an American pilot, and
someone else who I'll get to shortly). It's the kind of material that
would attract Spielberg, especially with the hero of the story, Jim
Donovan (Tom Hanks), who comes into a situation he shouldn't be
involved with but not only can pull off talking and reasoning with
people and finding the better side of a situation or person's nature.
What's surprising in a way is the involvement of the Coen brothers with
the script.

It's hard to say if Matt Charman was the primary writer (someone I'm
not familiar with, not least on the level of his co-writers) and if the
brothers came in on a polish. But watching the movie, it does make more
sense - certainly more than Unbroken, which barely has their touch -
since it carries a lot of dry wit in the exchanges between characters,
in particular the opposing attitudes of people in this 'period'
setting. Hanks' Donovan is a straight-shooting guy who believes in the
constitution of the United States and wants to do right, legally
speaking, by his client Rudolf (Mark Rylance in a fine, subtle
supporting role), and doesn't really care per-say what he's done or
didn't do. This doesn't fly well in a society that is overrun with
Red-Scare fever and end up doing the worst of things when in total fear
of things (i.e. the A-bomb, which gets a kind of cameo in the film in a
way that Spielberg I'm sure has a personal connection with, being a
child of the 50's, but I digress).

The Coens I think brought a sense of realism to things, but also
stylization; the way characters talk at times there's a lot of things
where people try to figure the other person out, which is fascinating
to watch. When Donovan arrives at the first part of the mission he's
given in the second part of the film, to do this exchange of the
Russian for an American pilot caught by the enemy, he goes to the
Russians and doesn't talk to the lawyer (who he thought to talk to) but
some other official. Spielberg covers this expertly, going in on Hanks
and the other actor at just the right moments to emphasize things
getting tenser - another young American, a student caught up in the mix
of things (it IS East Berlin, after all) - but the script dictates a
lot of the momentum here. And at the same time the Coens aren't
necessarily making it 'Coens-y', in a manner of speaking; they serve
their filmmaker extremely well, giving a light air to a good number of
scenes in a way that keeps the tension and suspense in a good balance.

In a way it's interesting to get this so soon after The Martian, also
in theaters: two films about perilous situations and men caught in a
struggle to survive, and two stories that benefit from some levity.
Between the two though, Bridge of Spies is the more serious affair, and
certainly Spielberg has a lot thematically on his plate. The story
takes place during the Cold War time, but it's really a war-war (so to
speak, sorry, couldn't find another way to put it), only with terse
words and missions via the CIA instead of men on a battlefield. At the
same time I feel like the message can, and probably will, resonate
today; Spielberg knows that we're in times where it can be dubious
whether people are put on trial and given proper legal counsel if
they're suspected 'others' or combatants, and if they get the counsel
who knows how the trial will go.

Bridge of Spies may have Hanks being, shall we say, Jimmy Stewart-like
(I know other critics will or have), and is the guy the audience likes
- his endearing characteristic in the second half, of all things, is a
cold. But it's because Spielberg embraces this, as does Hanks in
playing him, that he's a man who will stop at nothing to get done what
needs to be done for a man's freedom and security (or how he sees it,
so down the line, despite whatever happens in prison walls with glaring
lights and big questions about this or that for information). Perhaps
with a tougher kind of actor this wouldn't work, like I could never
picture, say, Bruce Willis in this role. Hanks comes in and is
unequivocal in his earnest desire for justice ("Everyone deserves a
defense, every life matters" echoes another Spielberg motto in
Schindler's List), and it's refreshing in a way to see this in a movie
right now.

Two little issues: the film's ending is a little long, with a coda that
feels like it stretches just a little longer than it should, albeit for
a visual callback that does add a bittersweet tinge that is welcome and
interesting; and the lack of a John Williams score (the first for
Spielberg in 30 years) is startling. Thomas Newman isn't bad at his
work, but it's unremarkable, and doesn't give certain scenes that do
need a little extra punch or kick that 'Spielberg' type of music. It's
hard to describe it, but I feel it when I do, especially during the
climax.

Aside from those small points, this is near-classic work by this
director, with a star in top form who is wholly convincing. It's also a
wholesome movie in that old-time Hollywood sense, but not in a way that
should date it any time soon; it takes a stand for what should be held
accountable for those accused, and that, really, having a good
insurance policy is maybe the only policy that's logical.
<|_=00=_|>
I am biased in my review of BRIDGE OF SPIES. The Cold War is my thing,
always has been my thing. I am dazzled by that time in history:
surveillance, the cars, CIA, Eisenhower, and the mystique of John
Fitzgerald Kennedy. 

From the trailer of this film, I expected a delicious plate of Cold War
atmosphere, intrigue, and commentary. Like a gleeful child, I sprinted
to the movie theatre  expecting a non-pretentious high octane version
of Mad Men. I anticipated my favorite era in history being served up
like LET ME IN (a piece of 1980s period perfection elegantly directed
by Matt Reeves).

I held close the trailer as I landed my perfect middle seat in the
theatre. The clips of a U2 Surveillance jet spiraling at 70,000 feet,
children overflowing in tears as they watch a thermonuclear film strip,
and Tom Hanks' face plastered to a subway window as we see guards
firing at bystanders trying to climb over the Berlin Wall. 

Then you add Steven Spielberg to the mix  the master of the period
piece  modern cinema - the evoker of our deepest emotions. One of my
favorite Spielberg films is Munich. Munich captures the violence of the
Middle East 70s with revere, respect, and revelation. This is what I
wanted from Bridge Of Spies. I wanted a dark, harrowing portrait of the
Cold War, I wanted this tense era exposed in Spielbergian fashion, and
I wanted to have 1957-1961 ruminating in my heart, mind, and belly.
Bridge of Spies, however, met none of my desired expectations. 

Diluted by a PG-13 rating, filled with comedic moments (clearly due to
the Coen Brothers having written or participated in this script) that
don't tickle my fancy, and an avoidance of Cold War atmosphere  Bridge
Of Spies hit me like a tennis ball on the head. 

It's taught, adequately plotted, and the hero is smart, likable, and
witty. It's garnered rave reviews. But, for anyone that likes
substance, don't look here. Spielberg's story is a moral tale  of
courage and standing up for one's ideals  the universal plot which
Steven devours like a hungry child. 

Unfortunately, there's no stakes. Hanks follows his journey and does
what he does best  but his universe is given little context. You'll
want turkey and you'll get turkey  but you're not getting any gravy. 

**Possible Spoilers  Things that bugged me about the film was plethora
of wasted opportunities. When you have Spielberg at the helm, you know
what could have been  

1. The relationship between the Lawyer (Hanks) and the Soviet Captive
(Mark Rylance) is an unbalanced paper weight. We get a glimpse into the
Lawyer's character, the archetypal Tom Hanks - fair, honest, moral,
etc. We get very little info on the Captive. He is quiet, dignified,
and keeps responding to Hanks wondering if he is aware of his dire
situation, "Would it help?" Rylance is the typical Spielbergian "caught
in the middle guy"  much like Ben Kingsley in Schindler's List.
Physically weak, trapped and powerless - yet stoic and unafraid. That
being said, what are his motives? He is a spy but what drives him 
where is the monologue where he explains his background, what formed
and shaped him and what forms the basis of his lifelong goals?

2. What I love about Mad Men is its strong focus on the media and
culture of the era. Except for the end of Bridge of Spies (where we get
a clip of Pierre Salinger informing the news of the spy swap) and an
early scene of a teenage girl watching a late night story, there's not
much to nibble on  Spielberg wastes a huge opportunity in a class room
scene where kids are watching a nuclear bomb film strip. Lifting the
film strip like a YouTube Clip and then showing a few generic shots of
kids watching it and one girl crying - the master of modern cinema
stumbles and falls into shallow surf. In this instance, I wanted to
yell at the editor  build this up, let it seep in, give us some Wonder
Years or Let Me In flavor. There's none to be had  

3. Not only do we get a vapid Francis Gary Powers  due to lackluster
character development and the miscasting (in my opinion), but the U2
Surveillance storyline is about 12 minutes. Give me at least 25,
Steven!! When the U2 is shot out of the sky, we get about a minute of
action  give us three. In addition, because Francis Gary Powers has no
character development, I don't sympathize with him or even care if he
comes home. 

4. The PhD student who is included in the Prisoner Swap is devoid of
character  another guy that I could care less if he makes it home.
Both guys appeared to have a lackluster indifferent time over the in
the USSR. The Soviets dowsed Powers with water and German soldiers rip
up the PHD students thesis paper  oh no!

5. There is no discussion of the disastrous political implications of
the U2 being shot down over the Soviet Union. Reluctant to authorize
the mission, Eisenhower was smeared by its failure and left office of
the President on a black cloud. However, we don't hear Eisenhower's
name mentioned once in the story. 

All and all, Spielberg delivers a cup of vanilla ice cream with fudge 
most audiences are going to love Hanks and the Soviet spy. 

In the final analysis, it's a buddy film with some period costumes and
a somewhat poignant conclusion. That being said, those that want a
stirring pot of fear, sadness, and elation  I suggest you wait for
this on HBO and watch Munich instead. 

Ted's Personal Enjoyment: C+
<|_=00=_|>
"Everyone deserves a defense. Everyone matters." James B. Donovan (Tom
Hanks)

In Bridge of Spies, Steven Spielberg once again masterfully goes to the
historical drama with a righteous man's theme (think Schindler and
Lincoln for starters). This time lawyer James B. Donovan is asked to
defend an accused Soviet spy, Rudolf Able (Mark Rylance, superb), in
order to show the world the American justice system is democratic. 

The story is "inspired by true events" with the outline of the exchange
of Able for U-2 downed pilot Gary Powers historically accurate. As
usual, Spielberg recreates the times with the atmosphere, cars, and
film noir aspect of a spy thriller in the figurative and literal Cold
War. He said, "I always wanted to tell the stories that really
interested me in my personal lifewhich are stories about things that
actually happened."

Hanks is central to Spielberg's vision of the lone hero defying the
odds and supporting the highest ideals of the American Constitution and
the individually virtuous man. Never does Hanks overplay the good-guy
card; he's just very adept at playing an everyman not always right but
always righteous. 

The dialogue is crisp, a no fooling around typical of Spielberg and
Hanks but a charming bad guy as well: James Donovan: "Aren't you
worried?" Rudolf Abel: "Would it help?" As producer Kristie Macosko
Krieger commented about Spielberg, "He's got a childlike sense of
wonder. He never gets tired of hearing stories . . . . " Bridge of
Spies is vintage Spielberg with a Lincoln-like atmosphere, righteous
hero, and intriguing multi-plot, an entertaining spy story brimming
with humanity. 

As the director says, "This is more about very smart people in
conversation with each other, and the sword of Damocles hanging over
their heads is that, if they make the wrong decisions, it's the end of
the world."
<|_=00=_|>
Bridge Of Spies is a well acted, thrilling, smart Cold War drama that
features a Oscar worthy performance from Tom hanks. Bridge of Spies
tells the true story of a Cold War spy swap, during the height of
tension between the U.S. and Russia. The time period was so tense that
when films can capture that tone it's usually special, that being said
the film doesn't quite capture that tone, but it comes close. Tom Hanks
performance, and Spielberg's seasoned direction manage to save the
film. When the film could have been slow, they save it by using either
humor, or great acting, Acting that will most likely get Hanks an Oscar
nomination. In the end Bridge of Spies isn't as good as it could have
been, but is still admittedly a great film that will undoubtedly get
plenty of recognition at the 2015 Academy Awards.
<|_=00=_|>
BRIDGE of SPIES, Spielberg // Starring Tom Hanks in Lukewarm Coldwar
drama.

Summary: Uninspired Spielberg Mountain from Molehill with pitiful Hanks
in Pain throughout. Viewed at Colisée cinema, Marrakesh, Friday Dec. 4,
2015. By Alex Deleon. With so many intriguing Cold War subjects up for
grabs one wonders what made Steven Spielberg choose this relatively
minor Cold War incident as the subject matter of his latest directorial
effort. 

The background: In the summer of 1960 an American high altitude spy
plane was shot down over the Soviet Union and pilot Gary Powers who
bailed out and survived was interned by the Russians. At about the same
time a big time Russian spy with US citizenship was arrested and put on
trail for treason in the USA. Idealistic New York attorney James
Donovan (Hanks) defends him in court and is then recruited by the CIA
to facilitate an exchange of this spy for captured U2 spy plane pilot
Powers in Berlin. The exchange took place in divided Berlin on Feb. 20,
1962 at the height of the Kennedy administration six months prior to
the Cuban Missiles crisis. 

The foreground: The result: a big disappointment with a heavy handed
script by the Coen Brothers and some very bad acting in a long tedious
dragged out attempt to elevate this subject to the level of Greek
tragedy with Tom Hanks pulling slightly different variations of a
pained face in every scene he's in, which is most of the picture. Greek
tragedy this is not, although we are compelled to feel a little sorry
for Hanks when his steadfast defense of the American Constitution is
met with hate, derision, and even death threats from his fellow
Americans, and then he has to hide his dangerous spy exchange trip from
his own family when he volunteers to go to Berlin on a thankless top
secret mission to ease cold war tensions and save an American college
student stranded in East Berlin into the bargain. En somme:to sum up --

From The combination Spielberg/Hanks and the setting in Berlin, a city
I know so well, I expected much more. This turned out to be a routine,
almost soppy Hanks performance and a very routine uninspired turn by
Spielberg at the helm. First of all I remember the era of the film very
well and it did not seem to me at the time to be nearly the momentous
event it is built up to be in this film. If lawyer Donavan (Hanks) was
in the news for a while it certainly wasn't a very big while, and the
spy exchange at the bridge was merely seen as a minor event in much
more momentous cold war Events of the time such as the failed Bay of
Pigs invasion of Cuba in 1962 and The Cuban missile crisis in October
1962. I remember thinking at the time that it was nice for our side to
admit for once that We also Spy and thought that might be the ball
Spielberg would run with. But the mawky family drama we are given, and
the overall talkiness with little backup action, plus the building up
of the the exchange on the Berlin bridge in freezing winter weather to
an event of Superbowl proportions simply does not have the drama we are
supposed to think it had. Overall, a dud that fails to go off in a
stagy unrecognizable Berlin. Recommended only for die-hard Tom Hankniks
who sympathize with Mr. next-door America, no matter what he does. As
for the Cold War political background -- Google tells it much better.
(Google, Gary Powers, U2 incident) Alex, Marrakesh.

:
