
Five months ago, I had no idea who Xavier Dolan was. Now, after
watching 'Mommy', I have no hesitation in saying that he's one of most
talented artists to have come into prominence in the past few years.

What director and writer Xavier Dolan, who is 25, achieves with 'Mommy'
is quite spectacular. Not only does he manage to impress with top-notch
directorial skills and an impressive and complex understanding of human
relationships, but he has successfully accomplished the ultimate goal
of a filmmaker: transmitting emotions -- pure, unaltered feelings.

I was never a supporter of the idea of re-watching films; I thought
that by re-watching a movie, you would lose precious time that could
have been used to watch a potentially even better film. However,
'Mommy' has completely destroyed this concept for me. Leaving the
cinema room, I had a sense of restlessness that went away only after
watching it for the second time. And guess what? The feelings the film
transmitted remained as fresh and relevant as they were the first time.

There are a myriad of aspects that are worth discussing when referring
to this film: the fabulous actors, the impressive use of music, the
clever use of colors, the numerous jaw-dropping cinematography-related
details and the variety of raw feelings 'Mommy' explores. But, by
analyzing each of these aspects in detail, you may risk to experience a
film whose surprises will not be as poignant as they would be by
discovering them yourself.

I can safely say that 'Mommy' left an indelible mark on me. Its
honesty, the beauty it exudes and its life-affirming tone make for an
enthralling chef d'oeuvre that will undoubtedly have a certain effect
on whoever decides to watch it. 

To sum up, 'Mommy' manages to do what an important piece of art does:
communicate authentic feelings. And, for this, I am grateful. Bravo,
Dolan!
<|_=00=_|>
Wow! I was left with tears and emotional instability after watching
this film. I mean this in the best way possible of course. I've never
been so emotionally AND PHYSICALLY moved by a film. Mommy is so
powerful and touching in so many ways because it captures a lot of
problems, turmoils, and emotions that we all experience. In fact, it
didn't feel like I was watching a film. I felt like I was living with
these characters and experiencing everything they were going through.
Laughing with the characters during their happiest moments, crying with
the characters through their darkest times, and feeling frightened of
what would happen next were all sentiments I felt throughout the film.
This brings me to one of the most amazing aspects of the film-the
acting.

The acting was absolutely superb! Everyone was terrific. The three main
characters depicted by Anne Dorval, Suzanne, Clément, and Antoine
Olivier Pilon were so engaging and compelling. They WERE their
characters. I didn't feel like I was watching actors acting-it was so
real! Bravo to all the whole cast!

The cinematography was breathtakingly beautiful. Xavier Dolan films are
always a treat because they are all so visually stunning. Dolan
captures many of the activities we do such as dancing with our family
and friends, falling onto our beds, riding our bikes/longboards, and
karaoking so majestically. Dolan is truly talented.

I was very excited to see Mommy for the longest time and I was not
disappointed. I was transported to a different, magical, yet realistic
world. I want to thank everyone involved in the production of Mommy. It
was extremely powerful and so painfully relatable. I think about this
film everyday and still get emotional. The soundtrack was lovely-I
listen to it everyday and the songs evoke so much more meaning now.
EVERYBODY, GO WATCH MOMMY!
<|_=00=_|>
Anne Dorval is far and away the best actress I have had the pleasure to
watch in the past couple years. She was solid in J'ai tuer ma mere. She
is explosive in Mommy! I haven't written a review yet but her
performance encouraged me to do so. Antoine-Olivier Pilon was great,
and Suzanne Clement was also top notch.

I've never been so deeply affected by a movie. I went back and forth
between laughter and tears throughout the entire movie. There were
several scenes that I related to....

Something that really resonated with me was the scenes where the 3 main
characters were laughing, dancing, enjoying life. I personally have a
hard time remembering the moments in my life where I was truly happy. I
believe that is because in those moments I was so deeply immersed in
conversation and laughter that my brain was incapable of creating a
memory. While watching Mommy I wasn't able to remember those moments in
my life but I was able to make the connection because the performances
and script were so realistic. Thank you Xavier Dolan! Waiting for
more...
<|_=00=_|>
"What does anyone want but to feel a little more free." Godspeed You!
Black Emperor.

Mommy is a film about extraordinary, ordinary people. Individual scenes
may be small and everyday, but what Mommy has to say is bigger, deeper:
about life itself. The film reminded me of the above quote and freedom
and our quest for it is the biggest thing Mommy has to talk about for
me. It's about this and also about love and family and how those
closest to us are so entwined they're not entirely separate beings to
us. It's easily Dolan's most affecting work to date because within it
every scene stems from and is full of emotion and conveys this to the
audience. 

In fact the film is so filled with emotion it is hard to remember the
extremes it reached. It is so devastating by the end that I had to
really think back to recall how I'd laughed out loud earlier on. There
is a lot of humour in the film (in its observation of characters and
what they say and do, but the time that got me most of all was when two
characters laugh so hysterically you can't help but laughing out loud
too  there's a real danger of us all descending into uncontrollable
laughter alongside the ladies on screen!) which made me glad to watch
it in a full cinema where the reaction could be heard from the
audience. Despite this, by the end Dolan puts you through the wringer,
and all that is left is our heartbreak for his characters and that that
quest could never be.

Dolan's characters, for me are always his greatest strength. Not so
much the specifics of them (though I must say these three are
unforgettable in that sense!) but how they work. Since his first film,
he has managed to express often deep or complex aspects about who his
characters (and thus, who we all!) are inside in a way where I feel it.
It isn't a thing that is easy to talk about because for me Dolan can
tap into the kind of things the people in his films are and feel and do
that often defy rational logic but yet which we all understand totally.
Wow, confusing, much?

Anyway, here too, Die, Steve and Kyla (all exceptionally portrayed) are
the heart of the film. They all feel like real people and despite the
2.5 hour running time, somehow at the end of the film you feel they've
been snatched away from you. All actors can convey so much in an
expression or action that you feel a world of their emotion and
understand things about them without them needing to be said.

The three main characters in the film all become tied to each other in
a way where they're kind of enmeshed. This is most true with Steve and
Die who I feel are not entirely two separate people. They are Son and
Mother, but more than this  they are man and wife, lovers, little kids
 sister and brother, he's prince to her queen and Steve can be the
father and Die the child. He is she and she is he and this is a bond
that is wrapped up in who these people are. This makes the love Dolan's
familial pairings have for each other unbreakable. Steve and Die
fiercely are protective of each other: above all else. Yet in this, as
in Dolan's other films, people entwined together struggle to exist
almost as one being when despite how interwoven they are, they are
individuals too. How to be separate, yet one? Dolan's characters push
each other away and pull each other tight but they can never be
entirely individual, nor can they escape each other. This is for me the
true link between all of Dolan's films thus far.

I just want to say something briefly about the very start to illustrate
the detail I felt in the film, without describing every detail which
would sound trite. Though we'll come to know Die, Mommy of the title as
many things, here we are first introduced to her as Mommy: she is shown
in a visual sense as the roots, the trunk of the family tree. 

I guess I should talk about the fact that the film is shot in a square
of screen and to be honest I barely noticed it until a truly glorious
moment when the screen opens up as a character exclaims their freedom
and we see our three leads feeling free fleetingly. It gave me chills.
After this moment, when the screen closes again  now you feel what at
least I hadn't really noticed until then  that this aspect ratio works
as a visual representation of how trapped these characters are. The
screen closes in at a time that truly illustrates this and from then on
the black sides feel as though they're kind of that-which-will-remain-
forever-unreachable. The only time the screen expands again attests to
this for it is a character's dream of the future.

Mommy is pitched in an ordinary world, but at extremes of emotion, but
at the core there is always honesty in what it says and it's this that
for me makes Dolan a great filmmaker. Dolan gets people and when you
understand people enough to not just make a film in which you care
about the characters, but to make a film where no matter the character,
their experiences resonate: then, you have something magic.

"What does anyone want but to feel a little more free." I quoted at the
start. Though Mommy wends through humour to ultimate heartbreak, for
moments in it its characters are free and perhaps through this as we
escape in its world, it allows us to feel a little more free also?
<|_=00=_|>
People who know Xavier Dolan know what they're walking into when they
buy a ticket for Mommy. While he has a loyal fanbase that seems to grow
more passionate about him by each film, some don't like him at all.
This is my first of his films and I can immediately see the case for
both sides. However, as Mommy is being called his most mature work yet,
I take pause to imagine how infantile his previous films are as this
has its moments of worrisome juvenility, though the 'mature' moments
have a gutsy weight. At only 25 years old and on his 5th film in as
many years, there's a cathartic energy to the way he approaches cinema
that is quite refreshing to see. He throws everything at the wall and
sees what sticks. Some of it does, but I regret to say, much of it
doesn't, and what falls off drags the film down. 

Frequent headliner for Dolan's previous films and having starred in 4
of the 5, Mommy stars Anne Dorval as the titular character Diane 'Die'
Despres, in a whirlwind performance of tantalizing vigor and
sensitivity. She's a widowed single mother who takes her thuggish son
Steve, played by Antoine-Olivier Pilon, back home after his time runs
out at a delinquent center due to an incident where he caused another
boy to be seriously burned. Arguments in their house always escalate to
the point of violence, but they find solace in bonding with their
stuttering but kind-hearted (with a lioness bouncing inside) neighbor
Kyla, enticingly played by Suzanne Clement, who begins to tutor Steve
so he can have the potential for a future. 

Immediately you can feel Dolan's hand ready to sculpt the film beyond
reason. It begins as an unnecessary fantasy set next year with a
fictional law to serve the plot. Perhaps it needs this disconnection
from reality. It's wired with high-strung melodrama that escalates
outrageously. Granted, that is the point of the film, that a little
spark can ignite a forest fire, but it crosses a line where it ceases
to be involving or convincing, and nor is it darkly comical. At first
it's difficult to invest in the film, the characters are so unlikeable
and unsympathetic, victims of their own tempers and ignorance. Dorval
wins you over handedly, channeling Marisa Tomei better than Tomei
herself. She's grounded enough to make the drama work. However, Pilon
overdoes the irritation to the point where you sincerely don't wish him
to succeed and that's a major problem with the performance and the way
Dolan treats him. It's unbearably obnoxious. 

But when it's finally toned down in the tense calms before or after the
storm, it's really great. It's thoroughly embroiling, enrapturing and
heart-breaking drama, or a complete joy depending on the scene. That's
the flipside of a film that's heightened to 11 on either end of the
scale. It was constantly losing me and winning me back. Eventually, the
losses were weaker and the wins were stronger. Sometimes the stylistic
indulgences were enjoyable and added to the tone. Otherwise they
disrupt the flow of the film entirely, with the use of slow motion, out
of focus shots and unnecessary interludes of music videos. Those of
which were poorly chosen iconic tracks that I can't tell whether Dolan
actually knows how done to death and unsalvageable the Dido and Oasis
songs are for instance. He exercises zero restraint  but he does not
care. There's somewhat of a charm to his contrarianism. 

What's most fascinating about the film and what particularly sets it
apart given the familiarity of this type of melodrama is the aspect
ratio. It's boxed in at an unusual 1:1, imprisoning the characters so
they feel crushed by the weight of the stresses of their personalities
and consequences of their actions. It occasionally breaks free of it
when hope floods back into their lives. It's an incredibly expressive
way to use the space of a frame, much more emotional than the
intellectual way Wes Anderson did it this year for The Grand Budapest
Hotel. As such with a melodrama, the cinematography is vibrant with
alluring colour, making good use of that voyeuristic box we watch the
story from. Fortunately, when Mommy hits the sweet spot, it's utterly
overwhelming. Dorval is the only consistent aspect in an unashamedly
bloated, indulgent and messy film. It could be too polarizing to be a
serious contender for the Foreign Language Film Oscar, but a nomination
remains to be seen. 

7/10 

Read more @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com/)
<|_=00=_|>
Not what I expected. It's a film that features quite a lot of dark
elements, but the film somehow manages to be really touching in such an
odd, but effective way. I don't think it's flawless. The script has a
few cracks here and there, and it sometimes feels a bit aimless in what
it's trying to say. I also very much enjoyed Dolan's directorial
touches, but many times they're a bit jarring and too stylistic for its
own good. However, what I will not at all criticize is that 4-minute
sequence near the beginning of its third act (you know which one). That
glorious score with those images created a profoundly moving sequence,
one of the most emotionally powerful scenes of the year. But that's how
a lot of the film is. I liked it a lot, but it can feel like many great
individual scenes and yet not as cohesive as a whole

The acting here is phenomenal though. The three leads and the places
they go to are harrowing and they probably rise the material greatly.
The ending was a bit too obvious and not very original, but I'll take
it

Not as enamored with it as most, but I still found it to be a truly
incredible experience that is no doubt so inherently interesting and
entertaining, much like the only other Dolan film I've seen Tom at the
Farm.
<|_=00=_|>
When I thought of watching 'Mommy' there were two factors which
militated against it. One was language barrier. The movie is in fluent
French and I know from experience that a lot of meaning is lost in
translation via subtitles. Second was the cultural barrier. Being a
middle-class conservative Indian, I usually find it difficult to
connect with many foreign thematic films. But to my sheer surprise,
'Mommy' was a complete riot  far better and stimulating than 'Batman
vs Superman' crap which I crawled through the previous day. 

'Mommy' is one of those movies where screenplay moves fast yet the
story unfolds slowly. This ingenuity shifts the film from art-house to
entertaining realm. 2-3 months of characters' lives take around 130
minutes of screen time which give ample time for all details to unfold.
Despite the subject matter being serious, the film never appears to be
dry. Thorough importance is given to character development. I must add
that I haven't seen such marvelous character development in my recent
history of film-watching. We get to know and empathize with all
idiosyncrasies of the characters. We laugh and cringe with the
on-screen characters. 

The plot of the film is not predictable at all. Just when you think you
figured out what is happening the story throws up a new dimension. At
places hidden emotional feelings of Patrick are insinuated which compel
the viewer to churn his mind. Die's dream sequence towards the end of
the film showing Patrick's life successful and happy was truly surreal
and well placed - a mother's dream for his son. 

Overall, 'Mommy' is the finest Canadian film I saw in a long time. The
film is truly a riot - an excellent piece of cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
There is definitely a lot to say about "Mommy". So many sides to it
that I honestly do not know where to begin. The first aspect that
really got a hold on me was the cinematography, as well as the
photography. The camera, directed by Xavier Dolan, manages to make the
viewer breathe an aura of beauty and gleam in most of the scenes,
insofar as the movie as a whole can actually be classified as one of
those rare masterpieces in which you may - and often you do - easily
get lost. And the soundtrack certainly plays a role in this game. From
Dido to Céline Dion, from Eiffel 65 to Andrea Bocelli, from Oasis to
Ludovico Einaudi, each artist and each song is perfectly accurate for
the moment in which it is played. Especially and eventually Lana Del
Rey with her "Born To Die". But I think the greatest aspect of the
entire movie, if you can find one single aspect better than another
one, is the structure and the interior complexity of the very few
characters. Both *Die* and Steve, and Kyla as well, have a both strong
ad anguished personality, and the bounds that exist among them are, in
one word, visceral. As visceral as their true essence. As visceral as
the situation in which they are imprisoned, and from which they can
escape only in very few moments of « Liberté », as Steve screams to the
sky. Only in this coinciding moments the framing widens, turning from a
square to a giant rectangle, and the spectator is suddenly swallowed by
the excitement of the characters, by their joy. By their innate and
genuine HAPPINESS.
<|_=00=_|>
A powerful well-acted and brilliantly directed film which may never
reach the audience it deserves ... and that is because of the "elephant
in the room." 

Some auteurs, possessed of a single vision, will "paint" their story
against an unusual backdrop to make it stronger. That backdrop can be
anything from the emptiness of space, to the time of a past world war,
to an imaginary future to a village in a country that never existed.

Such is the magic of film.

MOMMY uses the backdrop of French Canada. In its own way, with its own
unique history, as exclusive and remote location as the one Sandra
Bullock found herself in when her shuttle was damaged.

Everything about the film deserves attention, even the bizarre use of
an exceptionally tight Aspect Ratio -- other reviewers have heaped
praise on this bizarre affectation, but the TRUTH is that audiences
around the globe will be on the phone with Tech Support 3 minutes after
the credits roll, trying to figure out what just happened to their $5k
home theatre system...? 

The film is not only shot in French Canada but is one of the only
so-called "mass appeal" films from Quebec to unleash that unusual
Quebec dialect to the max (a dialect so obscure that even tourists from
Paris France have trouble with it) and actually parade it, like a badge
of honor, from scene to scene.

And therein lies the agony and the ecstasy.

As the earlier reviews show, Canadians in particular will look
(listen?) past this and patiently seek the cinematic rewards therein.
For them this is not a problem -- they have been trained to do this
from birth, it is now part of their DNA.

Viewers from other parts of the globe may not be as forgiving, however,
and this creates both paradox and dissonance. And limits the ambit of
the film's true audience.

Which is a pity. Quel dommage.
<|_=00=_|>
Xavier Dolan, Canadian infant terrible's fifth feature, MOMMY is
gratifyingly his maturest work to date, won the Jury Prize in Cannes
last year, and gutsily challenges our traditional cinema habit by
altering the frame to an idiosyncratic 1:1 aspect ratio - bar two
exceptions of 16:9 ratio sequences involving a soul-liberating
celebration of life and a fanciful imagination of a mother indulging in
her proudest moments of his son, which is quite a bravura to pull off,
centralises its characters and dramatises their interactions and
emotions.

Retracing to the central theme of his smash debut I KILLED MY MOTHER
(2009, 7/10) at the age of 19, but sans the queer label, MOMMY is
concentrated on Diane (Dorval), a middle-aged widow and his teenage son
Steve (Pilon), who is diagnosed with ADHD and afflicted with a
proclivity of violence and self-abuse, apart from other misconduct in
the present Canada. Their intimate mother-son life-pattern has gone
through an extensive scrutiny from Dolan's invading camera with a
tagline like this - sometimes love cannot save one person, anticipates
the finale. They fight and reconcile, confess their love but also swear
to each other and even roughhouse, she has to walk on thin ice with him
while he is recalcitrant and rebellious.

Their volatile relationship has been wondrously balanced out since a
new neighbour Kyla (Clément) barges into their life, her first
intrusion happens exactly after a most violent incident could ever
occurred between mother-and-son. Then the triangle starts to stabilise
into a wholesome dynamism, Kyla, a compulsive stutter who claims to be
a high school teacher on sabbatical and very evasive about her past,
albeit she lives across the street with her husband and a young
daughter. A semi-friend-semi-family liaison is luxuriantly budding
between Kyla and the family, she home-schools Steve so that Diane can
earn some extra money as a house cleaner, life is not easy, but all of
them feel content and optimistic, they dance, bike/skateboarding,
prepare food and dine together, here is when the first 16:9 ratio
sequence exuberantly inserted literally by Steve extending the screen
on his skateboard.

When Diane receives a citation from court, due to a previous wrongdoing
of Steve, which demands a great sum of compensation, the screen
retreats back to the square frame, life is just a winding road, a
tentative plan to befriend with their lawyer neighbour Paul (Huard),
who has always been flirtatious towards Diane, goes awry thanks to the
uncooperative Steve. Strife emerges again and after Steve's
unsuccessful suicidal attempt (or just a way to raise attention and
state his point, since who with a firm intent to die will cut his wrist
in a packed supermarket?), Diane must make the most difficult decision
after she ravishingly envisions a perfect future for Steve, the
gorgeous-looking 16:9 section accompanied by Ludovico Einaudi's sublime
EXPERIENCE is the long-waited high point of this intensive drama,
Dolan's usual tricks - slow-motion, soft focus, close-up - are all
consummately deployed in a fantasy we could only wish would be true for
our protagonists. Not too soon we are sucked back to the grim reality,
staring at the square again, a coercive separation, a heartrending
goodbye and the ambiguous/unambiguous ending (Lana Del Rey's BORN TO
DIE is the closing credit melody), after all, it is not a film for
those faint-hearted.

Within this close-knit cast, Dolan successfully sheds his pompous
swagger to be overtly impressive and ostentatious which is often
associated with a devil-may-care resolution among young filmmakers, and
has trespassed the threshold of intolerance in HEARTBEATS (2010), my
least favourite among his 5 features, instead, he patiently teases out
the top-notch chemistry among his three main players, calculated in
minute precision. Dorval, is utterly majestic to personify a
stimulating mother image poles apart from I KILLED MY MOTHER, Diane has
an uncouth and kitsch temperament which she cannot hide, then it
materialises that it is a useful approach to communicate with her
equally bad-mouthed son, but her unconditional love to Steve, sincere
affinity with Kyla, and a strong faith in hope (the poor man's luxury),
all marks her as a remarkable and vivid human being out of Dorval's
outstanding dedication. Clément, another muse of Dolan, comes to the
fore in her more introvert characteristic to hide her secret (a dead
son in her past only fleetingly implied but never actually revealed),
Kyla's stutter is a convenient barometer of her emotional state and
Clément is amazing to the hilt. As for the newcomer Pilon, his Stevie
is a spitfire with explosive fierceness, a nightmare to any parenthood,
with fitful charisma on the verge of dissipation at any minute due to
inappropriate external stimulation, it is a prime casting choice and he
chalks up a grandstanding presence.

From Sarah McLachlan, Dido, Counting Crows, Oasis, Lana Del Rey to
Andrea Bocelli until the national treasure Celine Dion, etc. MOMMY's
soundtrack is an ear-worm hits collection, measures up to Dolan's
eclectic taste in music, emblazons the youthfulness and urbanization in
his filmic tack, better than lighting up the mood, it coherently
indicates the progression of diegesis which will continue to be one of
Dolan's trademarks. Finally, MOMMY positively attests that a prodigy
can survive the inevitable backlash and hopefully evolve into a
bonafide maestro, Dolan's future cannot be brighter in this regard.
