
It has to be tough to be the child of a living legend, especially in
show business, but Mamie Gummer seems to be handling it quite well,
thank you very much. The oldest daughter of multiple Oscar winner Meryl
Streep, Gummer is making a name for herself in the family business.
Like Emilio Estevez (son of Martin Sheen) and Angelina Jolie (daughter
of Jon Voight), Gummer uses a family name (her father's last name)
while establishing her own identity in film (and television). Like
Jaden Smith (son of Will Smith), Gummer has joined her famous parent on
screen while developing her acting skills. As a toddler, Gummer had a
role in her mother's movie "Heartburn" (1987). As an adult, Gummer
played a younger version of her mother's character in 2007's "Evening".
(Gummer also had a brief scene in Streep's 2006 film "The Devil Wears
Prada" but that scene was dropped in editing.) In 2015, it's the
mother-daughter team playing mother and daughter in "Ricki and the
Flash" (PG-13, 1:41)  and it's kind of hard to decide which actress
did a better job.

Streep plays the title character, Ricki Rendazzo, an aging rock
musician. The film opens with Ricki playing a set of musical covers as
the singer in a local bar's house band. She obviously loves what she's
doing, but it's short of where she hoped she'd be, having to hold
another job as a supermarket cashier to make ends meet (and then, just
barely). Then, not long into the story, her other identity beckons.
Pete Brummel (Kevin Klein) repeatedly calls her cell phone until she
finally answers. He's not calling Ricki. He's calling his ex-wife Linda
to tell her that their daughter, Julie (Gummer) has been dumped by her
cheating husband and dad is worried about her. It's an understatement.
Although she can barely afford the ticket, Ricki-slash-Linda hops on a
plane from L.A. back home to Indianapolis to be there for her daughter.
It's the most she's done for any of her children in over 25 years.

As you might imagine, in her kids' eyes, this grand gesture isn't
nearly enough to make up for leaving the family to pursue her rock and
roll fantasy in the late 80s  and having precious little contact with
them since. Ricki's appearance sends the very depressed and
highly-medicated Julie into a rage and a family dinner which includes
her two sons (Sebastian Stan and Ben Platt) goes only a little bit
better. During her short visit, Ricki makes considerable progress
pulling Linda out of her funk, but when Pete's current wife (Audra
McDonald) returns from a visit with her sick father, it's clear that
it's time for Ricki to leave. It's back to California, back to the
grocery store, back to the bar stage and back to her lead guitarist
pseudo-boyfriend, Greg (Rick Springfield). As Ricki tortures herself
over the sorry state of her relationship with her children, Greg
comforts her and encourages her not to quit trying to make amends. As
badly as she wants to make this better, an opportunity that arises to
do just that still makes for a difficult decision.

Considering the great pedigree of "Ricki and the Flash", the movie
should have been better than it was. Oh, don't get me wrong  the
acting is top notch, but other aspects of the film were disappointing.
Streep does her usual outstanding work (not to take her for granted,
but this is Meryl Streep were talking about here)  and there are
award-worthy performances from Streep's fellow Oscar veteran (and
former co-star) Kevin Kline, definitely from Ms. Gummer, from McDonald
and even from Springfield. I expected more, however, from Oscar-winning
director Jonathan Demme ("The Silence of the Lambs") and Oscar-winning
screenwriter Diablo Cody ("Juno").

Except for one great line late in the movie, the dialog is unremarkable
and often the story feels forced. In one scene, Ricki points out the
double-standard for male and female rock musicians who are absentee
parents, but fails to acknowledge that Ricki could have still done had
more of a relationship with her children than she did. A few references
are made to Ricki being a conservative (even though she's a musician in
California and her family back in the mid-West seems pretty liberal),
but never gives any context for that characterization or even makes it
at all pertinent to the story. The script also fails to explain
anything about the circumstances surrounding Ricki's departure from the
family or much about how her career developed over the ensuing quarter
century.

Throughout the film, questionable writing and directing choices
overplay many characters' disdain for Ricki to the point that the
ultimate resolution of the story feels far-fetched. Even some of the
camera work and editing seem unnecessarily melodramatic. The theme of
family reconciliation is worthy and heart-warming, but for a story of
an aging rocker trying to reconnect with family left behind, 2015's
"Danny Collins" is a much better story and with equally good acting.
The acting is the main reason to see "Ricki". The rest is just a small
flash in the pan. "B-"
<|_=00=_|>
Ricki(Meryl Streep) a 60 something year old former rocker, who plays
gigs at nights, and is a big hit at the bar she plays at, but by day
she works as a cashier at a supermarket. But one day Ricki gets a call
from her ex husband(Kevin Kline) saying there daughter Julie(Mamie
Gummer, Streep's real life daughter) is in midst of a mental breakdown
after her marriage fell apart. Ricki flies down in hopes that she can
help. But will be able to reconnect with the family she abandoned?

Meryl Streep is good here, giving a good comedic/dramatic performance,
and I really liked her musical talent also, I know she has showed it
other films, but still always a joy. And she and Kevin Kline have such
great chemistry. It was cool seeing Mamie Gummer acting with her
mother, she proves that she is every bit as talented in acting. I hope
she will fall into her own, and not being thought of as Meryl Streep's
daughter. Rick Springfield is great as Streep's guitarist boyfriend. A
great light on it's feet film.
<|_=00=_|>
"Ricki and the Flash" opens with Meryl Streep, boasting acid-washed
articles of clothing that looks like it was stuffed away in a 1970's
time capsule, half-braided hair, complete with rings, bracelets, and
accessorized trinkets all over her body, belting out "American Girl" by
Tom Petty. If this doesn't make her one of Hollywood's finest
character/method actresses, I don't know what does.

Streep plays Linda "Ricki" Rendazzo, the frontrunner of a band known as
"Ricki and the Flash" that plays largely at dive bars and seedy
nightclubs. Linda, in the meantime, slaves away at a supermarket job,
bossed around by a manager half her age, making paltry wages whilst
being estranged from her immediate family. One day, her ex-husband Pete
(Kevin Kline) calls her up to inform her that their daughter Julie
(Mamie Gummer) is going through a messy divorce after discovering her
husband cheating on her. Julie, who has already attempted suicide and
since ceased showering and eating, lives with Pete and, upon seeing her
mother for the first time in years, is understandably disgusted and
appalled that she now wants to play mother. Linda also learns that her
youngest son is planning on marrying and subsequently not inviting her
to the wedding. Trying to balance out this newfound mess and work
things out with her present beau Greg (rock and roll star Rick
Springfield), Linda tries to be a mother to those who always needed her
and somebody people won't cringe at the thought of putting their faith
into as a person.

"Ricki and the Flash" bears a seriously tragic angle from a character
perspective, given the fact that while Ricki was an absent mother,
chasing rock star glory and fame, she wound up being a cover band in
diver bars, the result of a failed marriage, and the bane of her
children's existence. Now, Ricki has hit middle age hard and,
reflecting on her life and career, she has little to show for it other
than a mess of circumstances and success that was never fully realized.

Screenwriter Diablo Cody has a talent for making the most unattractive
characters attractive in a way that's not condescending like an Adam
Sandler film, yet not depressingly bleak like a Lars von Trier film.
Cody is also unique because her films don't focus on characters
wallowing in pity and self-loathing, but rather, actively trying to
better themselves or making the best out of a bad situation. The latter
is what Linda largely spends the majority of "Ricki and the Flash"
doing. Instead of wallowing, she's being active in trying to be the
mother that she never was to her children.

Streep does some very strong work here, being a captivating presence
all throughout the film and remaining an actress who can be trusted
with any role in terms of delivering quality. It also helps that Cody
knows her strong suits, which are complex characters with a lot of
emotions yet no really clear-cut idea of how to express such emotions.
The end result, however, is a duo that I never envisioned would work
together, yet alone work so well together.

As far as family drama goes, "Ricki and the Flash" finds itself
positioned between the lesser "This is Where I Leave You" and the
superior "August: Osage County." It's far more dramatic than I ever
anticipated, not sacrificing rich, emotional significance for cheap
comic ploys or mawkishness. However, there's a theatrical element to
the film that undermines its emotions, particularly at the end of the
film. Yet "Ricki and the Flash" exhibits a lot of undertones not
routinely showcases by the mainstream, which make it such a commendable
project, especially with a great actress at the forefront.
<|_=00=_|>
As hard as I've tried, I just can't get on the Diablo Cody bandwagon.
Yes, I saw Juno and Young Adult, both movies that I thought had great
concepts and stories hindered by clunky screenplays. Cody's writing
hints at much of what people complain about millennials: narcissistic,
overly snarky, and the thought that being a special snowflake makes up
for being a miserable, unlikable human being. Ricki and the Flash
follows this formula once again.

Sorry, but if you're a mother and you just ditch your family to
selfishly "follow your dream", the family shouldn't just accept you
back like it's no big deal. I just couldn't get past that. The story
felt more like a Disney Channel Movie than anything else. 

I like Meryl Streep and it was kind of funny seeing her as a rockstar,
but that was about the only good thing going for it. Her performance
alone made up for an otherwise weak screenplay and generic story.

Hollywood badly needs more female writers and directors, but Cody's
flaws as a writer keep showing up movie after movie. She needs a co-
writer or script doctor to help polish up the unrealistic dialogue,
characters that appear more like cartoon characters than human beings,
and humor that is more eye rolling than gut busting.

I think I'll skip her next film, like I should have skipped this one.
<|_=00=_|>
"Ricki and the Flash" (2015 release; 101 min.) brings the story of
Ricki (played by Meryl Streep), an aging cover band singer-guitarist.
As the movie opens, we find ourselves in the Tarzana (LA) neighborhood
bar The Salt Well, where Ricki and her mates are bringing us Tom
Petty's "American Girl". The next day we see her at work as a cashier
in a local grocery store. Ricki gets a call from her ex (played by
Kevin Kline) in Indianapolis, who informs her that their daughter Julie
(played by Mamie Gummer) is depressed as a result of her failing
marriage. Ricki immediately flies out to Indy to comfort her daughter.
At this point we're not even 15 minutes into the movie, but to tell you
more would spoil your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for
yourself how it all plays out.

Couple of comments: the movie is directed by noted rock documentarian
Jonathan Demme (Stop Making Sense; several Neil Young docs). Here he
finds himself in familiar territory. The script is courtesy of Diabolo
Cody (Juno, Young Adult). I have to tell you that I was surprised how
utterly predictable the entire story line is in "Ricki and the Flash",
I mean, not a single surprise or other deviation from a
straight-forward path. I had expected more from Cody. Demme tries the
best with the rather weak material. What should've been real tension
between Streep's character and her kids, comes off pretty weak. The
best line comes deep in the movie when her ex comments: "It's not the
kids' job to love you, it's your job to love them!" So true. The one
and only reason to watch this film is of course the timeless Meryl
Streep, who easily looks about 15-20 years younger than her actual age
(66, if you can believe it). Gummer (in the role of Julie) is Streep's
real life daughter but you could easily mistake them for sisters. The
movie's shooting was delayed so as to give Streep enough time to learn
the guitar (Streep wouldn't have it any other way!). There are some
nice side performances as well, none more so than Rick Springfield as
her band made and romantic interest Greg. Kevin Kline as the ex is
quite good too. The music plays a big role in the movie obviously, and
in the end credits it is noted that the live music is performed by Rick
and the Flash. Along the way, we get covers of Lady Gaga's Bad Romance,
U2's I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For, and many others.
Bottom line: "Ricki and the Flash" is an okay but ultimately uneven and
forgettable movie that stars one of the best actresses this country has
ever seen. There is a reason why this movie only has a 59 on Rotten
Tomatoes...

The movie opened nationwide this weekend. Despite my misgivings for
this film, I ended going to see this right away. The matinée screening
where I saw this at here in Cincinnati was very nicely attended
actually. If you like movies with a heavy emphasis on bar music, or are
simply a fan of Meryl Streep, I encourage you to check out "Ricki and
the Flash", be it in the theater, on VOD or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray.
<|_=00=_|>
Any movie with Meryl Streep in it is usually worth the price of a
ticket. There is no doubt she is an accomplished actor as is Kevin
Kline. Ricky and the Flash could have been a good movie, all the bits
were there - a variety of personas, all with flaws, back stories,
conflicts and interests. So I sat there through the whole thing just
waiting for something to happen. And it didn't. All the stories that
could have been developed and explored weren't. It was like we got
introduced to each one, and then the director skipped straight to the
happy ending without the story arch in-between. It left the characters
feeling flat and undeveloped, no growth as people, no emotional
involvement, no real change. 

In the end the movie could be summed up as 1/ Meet a bunch of
characters who don't get on, 2/ play a bunch of old songs in a bar, 3/
Play some more songs at a wedding and everyone forgives each other and
lives happily ever after.

if you're a fan of Meryl Streep, or have some nostalgia for classic pub
tracks then you might like Ricky and the Flash. If thats not your gig,
you will probably wish you had gone to something else.
<|_=00=_|>
In "Ricki and the Flash" I expected an idiotic film, but found instead
a shallow (and idiotic) one. Initially, the plot unfolds quite
interesting and could develop into a conflict-ridden drama. Instead,
the film bobs to a kitschy, vacuous feel-good movie of the vomiting
kind. Given the cinema poster - had I really expected anything else
from this film?

Even the performance of some of the actors couldn't help this dull,
meaningless story.

P.S.: Is it really a spoiler to reveal the fact, that a Hollywood film
has a happy end?
<|_=00=_|>
After reading mixed reviews for this movie and I make up my own mind -
this is a delight, a relatively quiet film with some really good music.
A story of a mother who went her own way and how she works to right a
few things and make amends with her three children. Meryl Streep
working with her own daughter was good to watch. Easy to see the genes
working well together. Some of my favorite actors are in this movie -
Kevin Kline is another actor that I would not miss a film of his, of
course Meryl Streep - I love the variety of films she does and excels
at. Audra McDonald - so good as the step-mother. This is a story of a
mother who wants to be there for her daughter who is experiencing a
heartbreak of her own., You get the impression that Rikki almost misses
what she left. But she has a strong man by her side and has trouble
letting herself acknowledging it. This is a good movie, a quiet family
drama movie and as I said a movie with some great music. The last
scenes make you want to get up an dance.
<|_=00=_|>
Revering the director and cast, as well as admiring the screenwriter of
"Juno," I was shocked and pained by "Ricki and the Flash." A few gems
have successfully combining music and drama without being a musical,
especially "Once." Not this one.

"Ricki" should be showcased in a film school course called "Movies Gone
Wrong." (If you are interested in this phenomenon, read the classic
article by Pauline Kael about her witnessing the process of the making
of "The Group.") 

The dissection of this disappointing work starts with the script. The
director should have either sent it back for rewrites or demanded a
script doctor. Someone needed to rescue its relentlessly shapeless
scenes, meandering plot lines, unnecessary throw-in details,
half-conceived characters and contrived conflicts. This combination
inevitably leads to a conclusion full of cheap sentimentality.

In more detail, one must next focus on the characters and their arcs.
We'll stick with the center of the movie, Ricki, an aging rocker who
plays with passion in a bar band. She had long ago abandoned her role
as a mother and wife to pursue her singular musical goals. The movie
and actress depicts her as a self-centered, thin-skinned, unapologetic,
non-introspective mess. Who cares about someone who fails to
demonstrates any kind of consistent attachment with her children? The
filmmakers' choice is a dead end leading to a no-coming-back dramatic
cliff.

They could have turned the character into a pioneer, one whose singular
artistic drive might be off-putting, but whose uncompromising spirit
inspires her children. In her arc, she re-balances her life, finds some
humility, accepts responsibility for her neglect through action, but
refuses to give up on her passion. She becomes a good enough mother,
which is good enough for children. Her sons and daughter might settle
for a parent who is flawed, but lovable and forgivable. 

Instead, the script makes aging rocker Ricki insinuate herself into her
ex's life and their shared children, a family that has been basically
good enough with the usual dramas. Even if you introduce a severely
depressed daughter, played by Mamie Gummer, there's no parallel between
the mother's self-centered abandonment and her daughter's recoiling
from a short-lived, failed marriage. Then (SPOILER ALERT, but one
that's not that big0, it makes the recently bankrupt Ricki talk this
depressed daughter into skipping her therapy session and getting
indulged at a spa. It becomes a plot turning point, but it's based on a
phony conflict. Why not see the therapist together, let the sparks fly,
then heal their wounds with a spa treatment. Instead the next scene
shows the mother and step-mother arguing over spa treatment versus
therapy and uses it as a pretense to create a war between two
strong-willed women. It results in drama reduced to a lifeless spat.

In the end, I found myself squirming over this self-indulgent movie,
where the cast seems to be having much more fun than the audience, a
cast hamstrung into depicting honest feeling in a phony, sentimentally
contrived drama. We're left at the end watching essentially music
videos by talented musicians that have no emotional resonance. It can
make you turn your head away, embarrassed for this extremely talented
A-list cast and crew.
<|_=00=_|>
This a movie designed for that select group of Meryl Streep fans, but
not for me. The heavy sighs and 'poor me' attitude is not only getting
old...it is old. She is a fine actor I guess, I don't see it, but that
is me. She gets all sorts of acclaim, indicating I obviously don't know
what the heck I am talking about. Too bad...it's my opinion - so tough
luck. Now there are two things Streep is the best at and that is
playing the consummate victim and letting out a very tiring, exhausting
signature moaning-exhale. Sheesh, stop...please...it is so tooth-
grinding irritating. Guess what, I am no fan as you can probably tell.
Her scope of character is...well...Meryl...and thats it. I see one of
her movies and cant help but think, 'Wow, she is playing Margaret
Thatcher as Meryl Streep....amazing!' In this movie she plays a very
special kind of person. She is this loser who bales on her family and
returns after a number of years. This sluggy-lowlife trollop crawls
back to her ESTRANGED family, declares herself the victim, and receives
heroic accolades for donating a couple of minutes in rearing her child
me is crowned heroine...yippee. Also this movie does not waste any time
on its war on men. Bash a guy here, or a guy there...typical and
unoriginal. This is movie worthy of missing completely, earning itself
top-billing for Oscar Sweep. Hand me the barf-bag. I am glad I am done
with this dribble and I want to unsee it
