
I enjoy (good) vampire movies, dark movies, good screenplays, good
production, good screenplay, good cinematography and characters like
Selene. This means I really enjoyed the first three Underworld movies,
provided we ignore the prequel which was no more than acceptable.

It also means that this movie ruined the franchise for me. Production
was poor and clearly quite low budget (reuse of the same footage on a
few occasions, etc.), the script was inadequate and, while Anna
Foerster has put in some credible performances in TV, this was quite
poor. Len Wiseman, or even MÃ¥rlind and Stein, could conceivably have
turned this into a movie worthy of the franchise.

There is also a hole in the plot worthy of a B-grade horror. 

SPOILER ALERT. And here comes the spoiler: The very premise of the
movie is that Semira's coven is impregnable and Marius would be foolish
to attack it without the blood of Selene's daughter. The werewolves
specifically state that they "looked for any weaknesses and there are
none". Then, later on in the movie, with no such blood, the werewolves
walk in there like they own the place and it is clear that they would
have taken the coven has it not been for the arrival of a transformed
Selene with significant backup. The entire first 80% of the movie is
rendered superfluous in one scene. SPOILER ENDS

And so the great Underworld franchise goes out with a whimper. Neither
Kate Beckinsale nor the character of Selene deserved this, some heads
should be hung in shame.
<|_=00=_|>
These movies were never made for Oscar consideration, I understand
that, but the first three at least tried something. Creating some kind
of mythology, war between vampires and lycans. Solid concept for the
fans of these types of films that offer a bit of story and focus more
on action and gore. First Underworld, released back in 2003, is pretty
solid action-horror film. Sequel, Underworld: Evolution expanded the
origin story for these species, while Underworld: Rise of the Lycans
served as prequel, giving us idea how and why the whole grudge between
vampires and lycans started. Then came 4th film, Awakening, solid
concept but lame execution. Very forgettable film, even for Underworld
fans. And now we have Blood Wars, 5th and worst in the franchise.
Nothing in this movie works. Action, the strongest point in these types
of films, was so poorly edited and is completely boring. Overall, movie
is so badly directed and edited, filled with lame dialogue and shameful
acting. Even the effects were not that great, with so many cringe
worthy moments. Such a disaster.
<|_=00=_|>
Lacks everything that made the original and sequels interesting. Poorly
cast actors especially Pulver, too much use of guns with lack of
physical fight scenes, no gore, bad script, uninteresting dialogue,
overall weak story line, irrelevant flashbacks, lack of vampire elders
or any character depth in werewolves removes the lore and legend that
made the franchise interesting. I did not care who lived or died and
honestly feel i am owed an hour and 31 minutes of my life. Maries might
of well as been called Mario and adorned himself in a red cap and
overalls would of been just as threatening. Absolutely no character
depth what so ever which is polar opposite to the first films in this
franchise. DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME IF YOU LIKE UNDERWORLD YOU ARE BETTER
OFF NOT SEEING THIS IT IS A TRAVESTY AND MIGHT AS WELL OF STARRED DANNY
DYER.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a HUGE fan of the Udnerworld franchise and have been looking
forward to this for so long so I am truly sad that my review is not
better than this. Here's what I feel is wrong with this movie.

1. Marius - who is he, where did he come from? The explanation for his
power came too late, too little to care and he was not as scary as
previous Underworld villains. So is the other vamp chick who is
supposed to be power hungry, kind of underwhelming at best. 

2. Movie is way too short and too rushed. Everything is introduced too
quickly and fits into the puzzle too easily. We have never heard of
this Nordic vamps till now. There's no continuity, no cohesion. Its
like its trying to bring something new BUT this is no. 5 or no. 6? 

3. The white hair vamps. Seriously I thought the elves from LOTR is
doing a crossover.

4. Selene went into the water metamorphosis and they didn't even bother
to show her experience. Suddenly she's back from the other end of the
world so fast and all ready super powered. It doesn't make sense and we
don't understand her journey.

5. The CGI is really quite bad.

6. The whole point of the movie is all about finding Eve's blood and
they attacked just fine without it. If Eve is not even going to make an
appearance then talking about her for more than half a movie just feels
like a plot filler.

7. Suddenly that other guy is the heir to the throne. Where did that
come from?? I think the writers think this is going to be so cool but
not if it likes a pie in the face kind of idea. Shock value goes whoa
not huh?

8. Selene was invited to train vamps and I think it barely lasted a few
mins of training before the treachery was unearthed. Could they not let
the training last maybe a few days before they started juicing her?

9. Semira's right hand man never showed any indication that he might
betray her but suddenly he did. Some build up would be great. 

10. The elves need more screen time!

Kate Beckinsale and Theo James were still awesome but they could have
used some better scenes to instill a better relationship. The movie was
fun, entertaining and but it fell flat and it left me feeling all empty
inside and for that reason, I am SAD.
<|_=00=_|>
The trailers already gave me some hints, I simply refused to believe
until I saw it. That the Underworld movies are for the better part,
dead and buried.

Yes. The action is still there, as is the gore. Betrayals are still
alive and kicking. And the old vampire/lycan grudge is also present.

But is Underworld still Underworld...? Unfortunately no. Kate
Beckinsale try as she may, she can't carry the movie alone, nor do I
believe anyone was expecting her to. I was expecting that they'd
finally replace Scott Speedman as Michael, with another one of
literally dozens of possible and better choices. And finally bring the
whole family together, into the fight.

But to my terrible surprise they simply killed off Michael. The way it
was done was terrible to say the least. At the end of Awakening, Eve,
is finally able to see through her father eyes. And we know that he
simply escaped the facilities. But now in Blood Wars, we were given
another (conflicting) take on what happened that makes absolutely no
sense. So Michael exits the cryo chamber, severely weakened and finds
himself captured by Marius. Taken to another place where Marius then
proceeds to seemingly shoot him in the head, and strung him up head
down to drain Michael of all his blood. Which he then uses to make
himself into more of a Wolf-Man than a Lycan.

So, Michael is dead, and Selene for the most part from being considered
an outcast through several events (and movies), she ends up basically
where she started. Again a member of the Vampire Coven. Now risen to
the degree of Elder together with David.

David (Theo James) try as he might, is no Michael nor do I believe
that's his purpose. In fact the story at a certain point seems to try
and connect him with maybe one of this movie biggest, if not the only,
good surprise. Lena! Lena (Clementine Nicholson) is without a doubt one
of this movie greatest assets. And if this was a movie about the next
generation, and Michael and Selene daughter, I could see her character
portrait as Clementine portrayed hers.

Eve does make an appearance in the end. But the movie had all but
basically drained my last ounce of hope. To me without Michael there's
no more Underworld. I got to confess. When Selene was giving her usual
movie ending speech, I always hoped that we'd see that Eve had found
her father, given some of her blood to him, and even killed a bunch of
Lycans and placed their bloody bodies on top of Michael, and from that
experience, as Selene had been changed/improved by her trials of ice,
so too had Michael evolved into a new form. And both father and
daughter were on their way to find Selene.

But no. The movie was at its best, mildly entertaining, with some
interesting fight scenes, that weren't even that great. We got plots
inside plots, and twists inside twists. But the core and heart of the
franchise is in my opinion, dead!

So see it if you want to. But don't expect anything outstanding or
exhilarating about this movie. In some ways it actually manages to be
poorer than Awakening.
<|_=00=_|>
After the disappointment that was Awakening I didn't go see this movie
with high expectations, but I came out surprised. The movie is totally
fine. Does it have some poor CGI and bad actions scenes? Absolutely.
But it also has some quite brutal and "Whoa" moments. What surprised me
the most was the story which actually references a lot of the past
movies, expands the lore and ties some loose ends nicely. Critics will
absolutely destroy this movie but if you are a fan of the series or
just want to throw some popcorn in your face watching a fun movie, you
should definitely check it out. Did I mention Kate Beckinsale still
kicks ass?
<|_=00=_|>
I watch the Underworld movies for pure action, a little bit of story,
and seeing a bad chick kicking butt. As far as girl power movies go,
the Underworld franchise is one of--if not--my favorite.

Underworld: Blood Wars was, of course, more of Selene (Kate Beckinsale)
being the bad B in black. She was still on the lam hiding from both
Vampires and Lycans. She had to deal with Marius (Edmure Tully err uh
Tobias Menzies) this new and improved Lycan leader and Thomas (Tywin
Lannister err uh Charles Dance) an old guard Vampire. 

The movie offered me what I was looking for. I'm not some Vampire or
Lycan purist. I don't mind their story being retold in different ways
or their core attributes being altered as well. Did they get after it?
Were there some ooh and aah moments? Yes and yes. I found myself oohing
and aahing a few times (or more correctly saying OH and DAM!). 

I will say that there was one drawback. The last installment was 2012,
five years ago--the one before that was 2009 and the one before that
was 2006 and the one before that was 2003. My point being that, whereas
Selene does do a narrative recap at the beginning it wasn't nearly
enough to totally refresh my memory on who everyone was and why they
all hate her. I'd seen all of them but only once and it wasn't like I
memorized characters or even the central theme of the four previous
episodes. This movie was still able to stand on its own even with the
brief synopsis of how she got to the point she was at. It's a solid
movie that can be viewed all on its own if one should choose to.
<|_=00=_|>
It's Kate Beckinsale again in tight leather! Come on people, pop in the
Blu-Ray or stream it and load up the popcorn. Take off the critic's
thinking cap for a night. Don't expect too much with a sophisticated
plot or story line. Do expect some Lycan ass-kicking from Selene as
usual, and enjoy the movie for what it is - a war between vampires and
werewolves. The CGI could have been better, but did I not mention
Selene/Kate in tight leather?
<|_=00=_|>
I love this series BUT the scriptwriters are making the plots pitiful.
Selene is becoming more predictable and considering she's the #1 Lycan
Killer she's showing a soft side. I would recommend seeing this ONLY IF
you're an avid fan but DON'T pay full price! 

Good: Selene continues to show skills and gets some new ones.

Continuity of characters.

Storyline remains consistent.

Bad: Compacting too much of the story-line just too keep action 

flowing.

Inconsistent displays of vampire strength and powers.

Ease of vampire gullibility

At least we can expect at least one more film to give them a chance to
bring it up to par, sigh...
<|_=00=_|>
I can say this one, is one of the best movies of the saga Underworld,
is a good action movie, with a good story. If you have seen all the
previous movies of underworld you will love this one, because is like a
fresh restart, but without deleting all the past like happened in
Terminator Genesys (I hated) and is well written.

This time vampires and werewolves are amazingly organize, and the story
continues in a good way. You can go to see this one without any fear,
you wont regret it.
