
This movie literally had the theater laughing and crying throughout the
whole movie. There is a serious story line, yet Krasinksi is able to
uplift the tone of the movie. There are numerous types of comedy for
everyone to enjoy! I have never shed more than a tear during a film,
but I found myself crying and sniffling throughout this whole movie.
When I wasn't busy crying, I was laughing. The actors did a phenomenal
job portraying their characters! So Kudos to everyone involved in the
process of making this film. I would definitely recommend to others
(although beware there is a very small amount of cussing involved with
the dialogue.)
<|_=00=_|>
John Krasinski's feature directorial debut, #TheHollars is one of this
year's must-see films, it's the most honest and hilarious dysfunctional
family comedy I've seen in recent years. Perfect ensemble cast,
especially the great Margo Martindale whose performance has Oscar
written all over it.

Krasinski plays a struggling NYC artist named John Hollar who hates his
job and has a rich and caring pregnant girlfriend (Anna Kendrick). John
returns to his small mid-America hometown upon hearing the news of his
mother's (Margo Martingale) illness. But coming back isn't easy because
it brings up not only old pains between family members but also high
school rivalry and other anxieties. Co-starring Richard Jenkins,
Sharlto Copley, Charlie Day, Mary Elizabeth Winstead, Josh Groan and
Randall Park.

I think it all stems from Jim Strouse's script that gives us a look at
a family that is reflective of the ones we the audiences have. The
story just flows naturally becomes I think it comes from a very real
and truthful place. You don't have to have grown up in small town
U.S.A. and you can still relate to the banter, the anger, the argument,
the jealousy, and the heartbreak. The comedy in "The Hollars" is so
ferocious so whenever the drama does kick in, you feel it all the much
stronger. All the actors involved did a phenomenal job of having an
emotional impact on you, especially Margo Martindale whom I've always
considered to be a national treasure, in "The Hollars," she gets to
unleash her fullest potential, it's as if everything she ever did her
career over the years had led her up to this defining moment, what a
remarkable actress. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll find hope in "The
Hollars." -- Rama's Screen --
<|_=00=_|>
"The Hollars" (2016 release; 90 min.) brings the story of the Hollar
family. As the movie opens, Sally (the matriarch so to speak) is found
laying on the bathroom floor, and we soon learn that she has a
potentially life-threatening brain tumor ("the size of a softball").
Meanwhile, we also get to know her husband Don, whose heating and
plumbing business is *this* short of bankruptcy, oldest son Ron, who is
so down on his luck that he is living in the basement of his parents'
house, and younger son John, a wanna-be graphic novelist bored out of
his mind at his current customer service job, and his highly pregnant
girlfriend Becca. At this point we're 10 min. into the movie but to
tell you more would spoil your viewing experience, you'll just have to
see for yourself how it all plays out.

Couple of comments: this is the second film directed by actor John
Krazinski (who also plays the role of the younger son John). In this
movie, he examines a dysfunctional (and that is a kind reference)
family, in which pretty much everyone is unhappy, or unlucky, or both,
as to the state of affairs in their respective lives. The movie is
billed as a 'comedy-drama' and I'd say that is pretty accurate, with
the funniest bits coming up in the first half of the movie (with the
best of those featured prominently in the movie's trailer, which I had
seen beforehand). The second part of the movie is far more
introspective, and for me the better part of the movie. When John asks
his mom how she managed to get through 38 years of marriage, Sally
responds "Don't waste time with the bad, live with the good. I've had a
good marriage for 38 years." The movie is helped tremendously by some
wonderful acting performances, starting first and foremost with Margo
Martindale as Sally, bur Richard Jenkins as her husband Don is equally
great. Anna Kendrick as John's highly pregnant girlfriend has a
surprisingly large role 9and she is super-charming in it), whereas Mary
Elizabeth Winstead as John's ex-girlfriend has maybe 5 min. of screen
time in total. Check out also Josh Groban (yes, the singer) in a
charming role as Reverend Dan. Last but not least, there is a terrific
soundtrack from singer-songwriter Josh Ritter. Bottom line: the movie
has received a mixed reaction from critics and the public at large.
Perhaps because of that, my expectations were low, going into this.
Instead, I found myself fully charmed by and invested in these
characters, and I was sorry to let go of them when the movie was over.

"The Hollars" premiered at the Sundance Film Festival earlier this
year, and it finally made its way to my local art-house theater here in
Cincinnati this past weekend. The Monday evening screening where I saw
this at was attended okay (given it was a Monday). No, this film
doesn't cover any new ground as such, but if you like small-scale indie
movies with a big heart, you;ll want to give this one a chance, be it
in the theater, on Amazon Instant Video or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray.
"The Hollars" is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
<|_=00=_|>
Films with families coming together where one sibling his been absent
for years that has in turn led to rivalry and jealously are not exactly
new ground but in 'The Hollars' it never feels overly familiar thanks
largely to the golden rule of film making, that a good script is King.
The movie directing debut of John Krasinski, who also acts see's him
play John Hollar, a struggling insecure graphic novelist, with a
pregnant girlfriend (Anna Kendrick) living in New York. Upstate his
father (Jenkins, brilliant as always) is running a failing family
business, while his brother (Sharlto Copley) Ron, has just been fired
by the Dad for warning him they're days away from bankruptcy. Ron has
his own problems, going through a divorce from his wife and missing his
two daughters, resulting in some what dysfunctional behaviour. It is in
this setting that the patriarchal mother of the household (Margo
Martindale, so natural & so brilliant she makes acting looks
effortless) discovers she has a brain tumour, forcing the brothers
together and the father to re- evaluate himself and the mistakes he may
have made before its too late. A subplot involves John meeting his old
flame who has now married high school friend turned hospital nurse
(Charlie Day) who in turn is a bit of a dick. Will John resolve his own
issues and see what is right in front of him, how will the father cope
with his impending loss and can Ron find a peaceful solution to his
messy divorce & cope with his wife's new love in the form of the
affable local Priest (Nicely underplayed by Josh Groban) - Such are the
dilemmas facing this familiar feeling family. 

How dramas of this type work often depend on how engaging the
characters are and connecting with them at an early stage. Krasinski
cleverly never makes you like anyone in-particular too much or too
little, tugging at the heart strings just right. Krasinski assembled a
top notch group of actors here who clearly know their craft. This could
have been a play on stage, but has enough drama to work well on screen.
Copley plays a role very different from previous performances and
handles the American accent with ease, while Kendrick proves she can
handle a more demanding role outside of the Twilight Saga spectrum.
Some characters feel a little underwritten, Ashley Dyke does well to
make you notice her in a part with little characterisation, but
essentially this is a film about The Hollars (Hence the title) and they
are rightly the focus of the piece. 

I have no doubt that Margo Martindale will be criminally under looked
when it comes to award season for her role of the mother. One of those
actresses who I have seen hundreds of times, has assured I will always
know her name after this performance. The film may not break much new
ground, but it is certainly among the best within its genre and
fortunately, it wasn't set during Thanksgiving with a scene involving a
turkey. Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Hollars" is one of those movies that has a mixture of laughs,
drama, and sorrow and sadness still it entertains with love and
memories showing that life always is a change with the new. John(John
Krasinski)is a man who returns to his small Ohio town to visit his
dying mother Sally Hollar(the wonderful Margo Martindale)who's very ill
with a terminal case of brain cancer. By her side is her loving husband
of many years Don(Richard Jenkins)and it's a tailspin for John he's got
a lot on his plate including a pregnant wife in Rebecca(Anna
Kendrick)and he meets an old flame of his while in town and she's still
interested even though married too, and John doesn't want to move back!
Clearly this film is clearly a test of love and fate it shows that with
time life and fate changes it's all about new starts despite the sorrow
and loss of a loved one still memories of love will always be present.
Overall "The Hollars" is one touching emotional drama of love and
change it's one film to sure see.
<|_=00=_|>
There can never be enough films of the nature of THE HOLLARS to keep us
all sane in the midst of world chaos and cinematic apocalyptic
explosions and car chases and burning buildings. Jim Strouse has
written a comedy drama about the importance of family and John
Krasinski directs a stellar cast in this warm fuzzy hilarious and
ultimate deeply moving film.

The setting is a small town in middle America  Ohio  where we meet
the Hollars  a family consisting of a father, Don (Richard Jenkins)
whose business is on the verge of bankruptcy, son Ron (Sharlto Copley)
who is jobless and pines for his ex-wife Stacey (Ashley Dyke) and their
children (Ron divorced them and regrets it and stalks them), Stacey's
new husband Reverend Dan (Josh Groban), a school chum Jason (Charlie
Day) who married the left behind sweetheart of John (John Krasinski) 
a NYC artist of graphic novels who has left his live-in pregnant
girlfriend Rebecca (Anna Kendrick) to visit his ill mother Sally (Margo
Martindale). Old secrets arise, communications falter, and the family
nearly implodes when it is discovered that Sally has a brain tumor.
Rebecca comes to the Hollar home to be supportive and encounters a
dysfunctional family that is both frustrating and entirely lovable and
the manner in which each of these disparate characters comes together
is the beauty of the film.

Simple story, very well written, acted by a first class ensemble of
characters (Margo Martindale shines!) and directed with sensitivity 
and it all works well. Try leaving the film with a dry eye  'it's
okay.'
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not saying this is the best film of the year, because there are
plenty of better films than this, but in some way this film wins our
heart. First of all I did not know John Krasinski directs films. In
fact, this is his second feature film, the only one I have seen and I
loved it. The main reason to I enjoy it was, it is sentimental. Not
just some foolish melodrama, but an uplifting film filled with lots of
fun.

The cast was at its best. I liked everyone and their unique display. At
some point it feels like a realistic drama, but those comedies make us
realise that it's only a film. Margo Martindale was really awesome. I
have never seen her in such a wonderful role. Most importantly in an
important role like this one. If I remember this film in the future,
that's only for her. The only negative about the film was the twist. It
was like they aimed for it to bring change in pace and atmosphere, when
the situation in the story was not in its favour. Even though I did not
care it, and thoroughly enjoyed it.

This is the story of the Hollar family who reunite when they needed for
each other. When John comes to know his mother got ill, he immediately
flies back home. His brother is already there and the father is
financially struggling. With many struggles, they all prepare for the
medical procedure. In the meantime, there are some outside adventures.
Like meeting their old friends, places, ex-wife et cetera. The
remaining of the film is to reveal how it all goes and where they will
stand.

The target audience is mainly the families. If you like a tearjerker,
you would enjoy watching it as well. So in my opinion, this film is
under-rated and under-noticed. Mainly because of the cast is not so
popular and so the lack of promotion. Even the film poster is not that
impressive. Kind of looks like a B movie and of course it is, but an
awesome B movie. Worth a watch for many reasons and you will know it
when you give it a try. So, recommended.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
John Krasinski's 'The Hollars' is all heart. And that's precisely why
this family-dramaedy shines so bright. With Krasinski calling the shots
& acting in one hand, along-with an ensemble ready to leave you
awe-inspired on the other, its hard to refuse 'The Hollars', despite
its predictable plot.

'The Hollars' Synopsis: A man returns to his small hometown after
learning that his mother has fallen ill and is about to undergo
surgery.

'The Hollars', for all it stands for, is about Family & Love. Where
would one be without a Family? The Hollars are flawed, but that's how
us Humans work, amidst this ride called "LIFE". Krasinski treats the
narrative with realism & makes sure you have a smile on your face once
this story concludes. I liked The Hollars, all of them, this family of
four, full of madness, secrets, regrets, but above-all, there for one
another at its most crucial moments. 

Krasinski is self-assured at his job here & his Direction is skillfully
done. He has the knack of a true filmmaker! James C. Strouse's Writing
is strong. The emotions bloom out beautifully & the humor, though
brief, works wonders whenever its put in. Cinematography is
first-class. Editing is neatly done. Art & Costume Design are good.

Performance-Wise: Krasinski is a fine actor & 'The Hollars' is a yet
another reminder of that fact. He's nicely restrained in the central
role. Richard Jenkins & Margo Martindale are Acting Jewels. Jenkins is
faultless as the overtly emotional, subtly devastated Hollar Sr., who
doesn't miss a single beat. Martindale, meanwhile, steals the show! In
a role that demands a performer of true merit, Martindale chews on the
character & offers soul in abundance. Sharlto Copley is in form after a
long time. He shines here. Anna Kendrick is natural to the core, as
always. Charlie Day can do better for himself in the world of acting,
as he's marvelous here. Mary Elizabeth Winstead is cute in a small
cameo. Randall Park is decent. 

On the whole, 'The Hollars' is a Winner. This one's right from the
heart, made with a genuine sense of feeling.
<|_=00=_|>
"You thought it was a weight thing?!" John Hollar (Krasinski) is
getting ready to be a father when he learns that his mother
(Martindale) is in the hospital with a brain tumor. He flies back home
and joins his dysfunctional family. While trying to help and be there
for his mother he also is dealing with the possible bankruptcy of his
father's business, his angry brother and the unstable husband of his
ex-girlfriend. This is a fantastic movie. The comedy is witty, quick
and perfectly timed. The drama is heart wrenching and emotional without
feeling cheesy or melodramatic. Everyone of the actors plays their part
perfectly and that adds to the overall feel of the movie. This is a
movie that flew under the radar, but those that find it will see one of
the best movies of the year. Overall, a movie that deserves a bigger
audience than it will get. One of the top ten movies of the year and
one that I can not possibly recommend more. I easily give this an A+.
<|_=00=_|>
If you were to create a spoof of independent family dramedies, it might
share a lot in common with "The Hollars." That's not to knock the
relatable, familiar and big-hearted intentions of writer Jim Strouse
and director/star John Krasinski ("The Office"), but their movie is
rife with not just clichés, but the most obvious clichés. Most people
could guess what will happen after witnessing just the first 20
minutes.

Like so many films before it, a major family occurrence brings the main
character, in this case John Hollar (Krasinski), home from his big city
life to his middle America hometown and into old and challenging
dynamics. That inciting incident is news that mama Sally Hollar (Margo
Martindale) has been diagnosed with an advanced brain tumor. Each
Hollar takes the news differently, and it turns out that's not all they
have to contend with; patriarch Don's (Richard Jenkins) family business
is failing and older brother living at home, Ron (Sharlto Copley), is
crossing the line with his ex-wife and two daughters. Oh, and John's
girlfriend (Anna Kendrick) is eight months pregnant.

Strouse's story doesn't just embrace clichés, it leans into them. John
has to face his high school sweetheart (Mary Elizabeth Winstead) and
her high-strung boyfriend (Charlie Day) who "happens" to be his mom's
nurse; Ron contends with his ex's seemingly perfect youth pastor
boyfriend (Josh Groban); Sally has emotional trouble shaving her head
in preparation for her surgery. And that's without mentioning the
pregnant girlfriend. No character's behavior, circumstances or outcome
comes as any surprise.

In spite of it all, the film attracted all these terrific names in the
parentheses above, and they lift Strouse's script about as high as it
can go. The moments of the film that work work because of the talent.
Krasinski does not offer much as a director to tell this story in a way
that extends beyond the banal framework of the family that contends
with big feelings and comes together in the face of adversity.

"The Hollars" will surely find fans in viewers who enjoy recognizable
on-screen talent in a movie that's story safely goes where they want it
to go, with its "profound" moments punctuated by indie folk music.
Sure, the reason filmmakers started making movies like this in the
first place was because there was something real, honest and tangible
about this setup, and "The Hollars" touches these same universal themes
and feelings. But Strouse's script feels more like a smattering of
conveniently chosen archetypes, scenarios and personality traits weaved
together to create that story instead of finding its own voice.

Especially considering the talents of Krasinski, Kendrick, Jenkins,
Martingale, etc. the lack of originality creates a staggering amount of
apathy for their characters and the cookie-cutter ups and downs of the
story. There's something bizarre about seeing moments in this film that
are well-acted and come from such a sincere place, but feel empty
because they go down exactly as you'd expect a movie to draw them up.
Empathy requires novel moments in which viewers feel compelled to put
themselves in a character's shoes. "The Hollars" proves that the key
word in that formula is "novel," because if we've already pondered all
of these exact predicaments depicted in a film, it's not so exciting to
put on that old pair of shoes, even when they offer some familiar
comforts.

~Steven C

Thanks for reading! Visit Movie Muse Reviews for more
