
I like it, I really really liked it!

Academy Award winner, Sally Field proves that she still has the charm
and charisma at this stage in life, to headline a young hip movie. 

Fields plays, Doris, a seasoned Staten Islander working in accounts at
a young trendy business, who develops a crush on the new Art Director
who sparks the young at heart feeling Doris needed after spending her
youth taking care of a ill mother. 

It's a very realistic look at what it's like for someone who has an age
difference form the rest of their co workers.

Sally Field was great to look at. She brings that old school class of
acting to a new style of film making. Field brings a lot of respect to
Doris, that makes you feel for the character and connect with what
she's going through as she pursues her much younger love interest.

It's familiar and refreshing all at the same time. A funny and
enjoyable must see film.
<|_=00=_|>
Sally Field gets the role of a lifetime as a hoarder working in a
trendy office who has the hots for a younger employee. One of the best
things about "Hello, My Name Is Doris" is that it shows how Doris is
sort of an oddball and can irritate those around her, but is
nonetheless a good person. She was the only sibling who took care of
their mom. Basically, Doris wants to stick to her house and
possessions, and their representation of the old days amid a world that
advances too quickly for her, and her attraction to this younger man is
the only possible sexual satisfaction for her. Most of all, it's
refreshing to see a movie that focuses on older women (aside from
Doris, there's her friend Roz, played by Tyne Daly). One of the most
impressive scenes is when Doris gets photographed (and believe me,
Sally Field looks sexy in some of those outfits that she wears).

The long and short of it is that "Hello, My Name Is Doris" is a really
good movie. Sally Field has gotten some of the best roles of her career
later in life, and I hope that she continues to do so. She, Tyne Daly,
and the rest of the cast put in fine performances. I recommend this
movie to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
I want to write a fair, balanced, impartial and pertinent review of
this film... but it's difficult.

The problem is... it's near perfect. It is clever and inventive in it's
conception, beautifully constructed and crafted in it's form, musically
enchanting... and importantly... not infested with formulaic Hollywood
nonsense.

The actors do everything that is expected of them, (and more in the
cases of Sally Field and Tyne Daily), there is zero CGI... and the
swearing is limited (and confined) to the sort of swearing real people
engage in. Healthy, gutsy, robust 'effing' and blinding. Also... no
swords, elves, planets or vampires intrude on the fun. 

We all have our own preferences when it comes to entertainment I like
my music intricate and embracing, I like my novels to be difficult to
define... and I like my films to be addictive... (at least for the
duration of the film). I like to know I will definitely watch it
again...and that I will laugh and care the same way I did the first
time around.

A truly pleasing film. I'm in my sixties too... Sally Field is 'effing'
gorgeous.
<|_=00=_|>
Sally Field does the best job in the world with a terrible character
that should not be the lead focus of a movie. A lot of people will
probably say that Field's character was "charming" or "eccentric", but
I'm 100% creeped out by this woman. Nearly every choice this woman
makes in this movie is wrong. She manipulates situations to wiggle her
way into a young man's life to try and seduce him. Putting aside the
role is a harmless old lady played by innocent-looking Sally Field, if
the script was flipped the movie would be even more unappealing.
Imagine Burt Reynolds hitting on Anna Kendrick...precisely.

From the word "Go" she lies about who she is, what she likes, even
orchestrating a pseudo-sexual situation where he needs to fill her ball
with his pump. Yeah, that happens. Doris is so obsessed with this man
that she stoops to making a fake profile on Facebook to try and get
information on him. She stalks him to a concert, follows him around
when he's on a date, then later she uses her fake profile to sabotage
the relationship he's in.

And the ending, my God. What a vague message, what a pointless moral,
what an unlikely unfolding of events considering the context of
everything that happened prior. The writers and director actually
suggest that despite her sabotage, her lying, the massive age
difference and over-all questionable mental health of this woman, the
young man actually wants her. Just an example of how this movie allows
itself to suspend reality for the sake of lame humor and weak story.
People don't talk the way that people in this movie talk, the whole
story is so far-fetched, and the supporting cast might as well be magic
8-balls since their only function is to be as mildly amusing as
possible while the main characters bounce dialogue off of them. If
you're old, you might like it slightly, if you're not, then definitely
not.
<|_=00=_|>
There's so much more to this than just an older woman falling for a
younger man. Doris' life had been cut off as a young woman when she was
needed to take care of her ailing mother. Upon her death, she returns
to where she left off in her youth. She doesn't really have any other
reference than that which she felt like as a young woman in love, and
never was given the opportunity to pursue those feelings. That's is
Doris' starting point and her return to herself. It's beautiful and
Sally Field and Max play it beautifully as well as the other actors.
Tyne Daly is at her best. 

This is really a wonderful movie. It really keeps you thinking and your
heart aching for Doris and cheering her on!
<|_=00=_|>
Norma Rae, Edna Spalding, Mrs. Gump, Mary Todd Lincoln, and Doris
Miller. Sally Field's most recent role, Doris Miller, is a worthy
addition to her amazing gallery of film performances, given since she
emerged as Gidget a half century ago. An eccentric, lonely woman of
advancing years, Doris has sacrificed her life to care for her
now-deceased mother. Mother and daughter have evidently been hoarders,
and Doris's brother and sister-in-law eagerly want her to clean up and
clear out, because they want to sell the Staten Island house.
Meanwhile, Doris fixates on John Fremont, a much younger man, who is
the new art director in her Manhattan office, and, inspired by a
motivational speaker named Willy Williams and by countless
bodice-busting romance novels, she decides to pursue romantic
involvement with the good looking young guy. While "Hello, My Name is
Doris" plays out somewhat predictably, the film provides a showcase for
Sally Field in yet another Oscar-worthy performance.

In the hands of a less gifted actress, Doris could have been little
more than a caricature; a bespectacled woman who wears wigs, has a
large bow in her hair, decorates her cubicle with cat calendars, and
lives alone in a cluttered house with a cat. However, Fields brings
restraint and depth to the character, and she convincingly conveys the
shy woman's re-emergence from a decades-long cocoon. Although her
pursuit of the young man borders at times on cringe worthy, Fields
manages to retain her dignity and audience sympathy. Fremont, played by
Max Greenfield, who is about three decades younger than Fields, kindly
returns Fields's overtures of friendship, but fails to grasp that she
wants more than he is prepared to offer. Doris's "Walter Mitty" like
day dreams about Fremont are often amusing, but her foray into Facebook
stalking takes a dark, unsavory turn.

The supporting cast is good, although none overshadow Field's star
turn. Greenfield is fine as Doris's fantasy-love interest, and Tyne
Daly is her usual tough-shell warm-inside self as Doris's best friend
and confidante. Peter Gallagher nails the Willy Williams part and
actually imparts some helpful, if clichéd advice to Doris. Directed and
co-written by Michael Showalter, "Hello, My Name is Doris" may have
been intended as a fantasy- exploitation film for older women, who seem
to dominate the movie's audiences. Generally, May-December romances
involve older men with younger women, and Field herself starred in one
such film, "Murphy's Romance" with James Garner, although the age
difference in that film disappeared through the stars' chemistry.
However, the chemistry fails to develop herein, and Doris and John
reverse the gender/age roles, which places them close to Harold and
Maude, a possible turn off for some viewers. Nevertheless, the
exceptional performance by Sally Field is well worth seeing and the
proceedings are often amusing, even if a few scenes between her and
Greenfield may make some uncomfortable.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Hollywood has long ignored the
pushback on its habit of casting younger women as the love interest of
older men. In most of those movies, the relationships are treated as
normal and expected. In the few movies that turn the tables, a
relationship between an older woman and younger man is typically
treated as either comedy or scandal  consider Harold and Maude (1971)
and Notes on a Scandal (2006). In this latest film, writer/director
Michael Showalter (The Baxter) and co-writer Laura Terruso strive to
balance heartfelt emotions with situational laughs. 

Sally Field returns to leading lady status as Doris, a never-married
frumpy accountant in her late 60's who has been living in her childhood
home whilst caring for her ailing mother  hoarding everything from
magazines to packaged food seasoning to a single water ski. The film
begins with the open casket funeral of Doris' mom, and we see her
brother (Stephen Root) and his obnoxious and rude wife (Wendi McLendon)
immediately pounce on Doris to clear out the clutter and sell the
house. They even set her up with a hoarder specialist/therapist
(Elizabeth Reaser) who finds the case quite challenging.

The real fun in the movie begins with a close encounter in the office
elevator, when Doris and her cat-eye glasses come face to face with a
handsome and charming young man who offers up a compliment  something
Doris rarely experiences. Of course, a few minutes later, we learn the
young man is John (Max Greenfield, "New Girl"), the new artistic
director in Doris' office. For years, Doris has depended upon cheesy
romance novels to supply the fantasy in her life, and now the lessons
from that reading kick into full gear. 

It's a night out with her best friend Roz (Tyne Daly) that results in a
chance interaction with a cocky motivational speaker (Peter Gallagher)
whose catchphrase is "Every week has seven days. None of them are named
Someday". He leaves Doris with this thought: "Impossible means I'm
possible". When combined with those romance novels, Doris now sees a
realistic chance for love if she pursues the man of her dreams  the
aforementioned (and half her age) John.

With the help of Roz' teenage granddaughter (Isabella Acres), Doris
learns how to Facebook stalk, and soon enough ends up at a concert with
John's favorite techno band, Baby Goya and Nuclear Winters (led by Jack
Antonoff of Fun.). John and his group of hipster friends are enamored
with Doris' vintage clothes and quirky sense of style and speech. She
soon finds herself posing in spandex for Baby Goya's album cover, going
to dinner parties, and joining a rooftop knitting group of millennials.

Judging by the boisterous laughing by women in the theatre, this is a
prime "GNO" flick for women of all ages. Most of the comedic situations
seemed pretty obvious and predictable, and I found some traits of Doris
to be less than appealing. However, as a statement on what happens when
the outside world passes by, and generational gaps become almost
impossible to bridge, the film makes a bold statement on real
friendship between mature women. It poses the question, what determines
whether a personal awakening is real or imagined? 

Sally Field (turning 70 in 2016) gives a terrific performance, and it
goes much deeper than someone who puts her reading glasses on top of
her regular glasses and wears giant bows in her giant hairpiece. Ms.
Field has excelled in such previous work as "Sybil" (1975), Norma Rae
(1978), Places in the Heart (1983), and Lincoln (2011). She understands
comedy and human drama, and as Doris  you'll kind of like her. You'll
really kind of like her!
<|_=00=_|>
"She's definitely weird, but like a good weird." Doris Miller (Field)
has just lost her mother and reason for living. She isn't sure what to
do now, stuck in a job and spending her nights with her friend Roz and
Vivian. One day while heading to work she sees John (Greenfield) and
everything changes. She falls in love with him and wants to find the
courage to talk to him. Little by little Doris opens up and finds her
confidence, and begins to find herself again. This is a movie that
flips the norm on its head. This movie deals with an older woman trying
to pursue a younger man. Sally Field gives one of her best performances
to date and really plays this character perfectly. You feel sorry for
her but not to the point of pity, and really root for her but also
cringe a few times at her actions. This is at its core a funny and
moving romantic comedy, but it deals more with self discovery than the
pursuit of love itself. That is refreshing to see and because of that
it actually felt fresh. Overall, just a really nice movie with a great
performance by Sally Field. I give this a B.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great example of ultrafine filmmaking that simultaneously
courts convention, and then proceeds to transcend it.

It starts up as straight-up storytelling bolstered by a focus on
character/scenario development, and winds up being quite close to
mythic. Doris starts out as a "character", but ends up as a goddess.
That's a laudable achievement for film.

This flick, more than many, gets my inner wheels turning, pondering the
production process that brought together so many fine talents to
produce such a fine film product. After watching so many hi-tech,
meticulous productions that skimp on narrative/mythic depth, it's nice
to see a mid-tech product that really does deliver the goods.

Check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
"Hello, My Name Is Doris" (2015 release; 90 min.) brings the story of
Doris (played by Sally Field). As the movie opens, we see Doris
mourning the passing of her mom, and being pressured by her brother to
sell the maternal house, or at least get rid of all the stuff Doris is
hoarding. It's not long before we see Doris doing her daily work
commute on the Staten Island Ferry to Manhattan, and in the packed
elevator onto the office, she is pressed up against a younger guy, who
turns out to be the new art director at her work. Doris promptly
develops a crush on him. At this point we're 10 minutes or so into the
movie, but to tell you more would spoil your viewing experience, you'll
just have to see for yourself how it all plays out.

Couple of comments: this rom-com is directed by Michael Showalter, best
known for writing and starring in the "Wet Hot American Summer" film
(and subsequent Netflix prequel series). Here, he tackles the subject
of the older woman-younger guy potential relationship with a light
touch. The first half of the movie goes for the outright comedy
aspects, as we see the Sally Filed character in a number of improbable
(including some brought as fantasy) scenes, to the total delight of
last night's theater crowd, which went absolutely wild with laughter
(more on that later). At some point, Doris and her friend Roz go to see
a motivational speaker, where she confides about her 'impossible' crush
on her co-worker. "Impossible? Make that I'm possible!" advises the
speaker, ha! The second half of the movie goes more into more serious
aspects, including surprisingly but very effectively the hoarding
issues (the hoarding "intervention" scene is for me the best of the
entire movie). Sally Field, now a crisp 69 years young, brings a
stellar performance as the perky Doris, completely blowing away Max
Greenfield (exactly half her age) as her co-worker John, Beth Behrs (as
John's possible flame), and the rest of the cast. Tyne Daly as her
friend Roz remains feisty as ever, The movie is well paced, and clips
by in no time. There is a surprising amount of great indie music
featured in the movie, including from Pearl and the Beard, Bryan Wells,
and a bunch of other unknowns (to me anyway).

"Hello, My Name Is Doris" made quite a splash when it was first shown
at SXSW 2015, yes exactly a year ago already, Not sure why it's take
this long for it to get a general release. The movie opened this
weekend on a single screen for all of Greater Cincinnati, and the
Saturday evening screening where I saw this at was absolutely packed to
the rafters (tilting heavily towards seniors, I might add). The
audience absolutely LOVED the movie, laughing out loud, hooting and
hollering where you might expect it, and giving a round of applause
when the end titles started rolling. From that reaction, I'd say that
this movie has all the makings of a solid hit on the art-house theater
circuit. If you are in the mood for a light-hearted rom-com that at
times touches on some serious aspects as well, you cannot go wrong with
this.
