
I saw My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2 last night at a screening last night
and was apprehensive about going but so glad I went! It was a great
silly date/family movie that I really think out-did the original and
was a great reminder that sequels can revive the energy and feeling of
the first film without relying on the same jokes, and storyline. It had
plenty of great call-backs to the original and any fan of that film or
anyone with, or who knows, a loud big family will be smiling ear to ear
and can plan on laughing away. The film was more or less what you would
expect with almost all of the original characters making reprisals and
the time didn't degenerate their characters or the absurdity of their
actions but like a fine wine they matured with time. I laughed out loud
many times and the theater actually erupted in applause when it ended,
which is very rare with silly comedies like this, and my only
disappointment was that it finished almost too soon. I wanted to spend
more time with the characters, but it didn't drag on, wasn't
unnecessarily absurd and kept the tone and fun that the original film
had. If you are looking for a feel-good film and a nice escape from our
hectic wild world this movie will definitely please.
<|_=00=_|>
"My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2" is probably the best sequel that could've
been spawned from a largely forgotten but monstrously successful
independent romantic comedy from twelve years ago. One could
theoretically call it a "too little too late" sequel, something
Hollywood has been good at churning out recently with sequels to
"Barbershop," "Joe Dirt," and "Zoolander," but when a sequel is so
similar in line with its predecessor after so many years and
practically oozes the same kind of sentiment, one has to be a bit
forgiving and credit it for what most sequels fail to capture.

Both sequels to "Joe Dirt" and "Zoolander" were flawed from the very
concepts, and when it came time to try that concept again, over a
decade later, it felt stale and desperately forced when it came to
trying to modernize it for the times and the now-grown up audience.
While "My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2" has obligatory scenes of poor Toula
(Nia Vardalos) trying to teach her loving father Gus (Michael
Constantine) how to work a computer, it nonetheless manages to
effectively work as charming comedy of moments, even if its structure
and narrative theme is about as basic as it can get.

The film reenters the lives of the characters we fondly recall from the
first film, only now, well into their married lives and elder years.
Toula and Ian (John Corbett) are having the typical kinds of struggles
most semi-long/long-term married couples have emotionally and
romantically, especially with their teenage daughter Paris (Elena
Kampouris) in the midst of deciding where to go to college. While she
wants to go off to New York University, her parents want her to stay in
Chicago and go to Northwestern University, but Paris has been
constantly smothered by her borderline insufferable Greek family to the
point where she wants none of it.

Meanwhile, Toula's parents Gus and Maria (Lainie Kazan) are getting
well into their old age, especially Gus, who has had hip and memory
problems for a while now. All is going well between him and his wife
until Gus uncovers a much-repressed family secret that the priest never
signed the certificate of marriage to make Gus and Maria an official
union, meaning Gus and Maria aren't legally married, despite fifty
years of togetherness. How this was never uncovered before, as if the
two never had to file taxes or partake in any other legal activities,
I'm not sure, but long story short, they're not married. Rather than
doing the logical thing and just going down to the courthouse to make
the marriage official, of course the family must complicate it,
starting with Maria wanting not only a real proposal from Gus, but a
full-blown, bank-breaking wedding. So we're back to square one, this
time planning a wedding for the older couple, rather than the younger
one.

The scene-stealer this time around, however, isn't so much Vardalos
playing a role she can practically sleepwalk, but Aunt Voula, played by
the lovely Andrea Martin. Not a hugely significant presence in the
first film, it would appear that Vardalos decided to give some of the
best quips and zingers to her character's aunt, whose loud presence and
boisterous, if invasive, mannerisms often result in some strong
belly-laughs. Also giving his all in a performance that he can probably
perform at any given time of the day is Michael Constantine; despite
his character, the actor can't hide his energy and Jack Lemmon-esque
grouchiness when it comes time to really commit to being an
enthusiastic presence. He winds up being the most commendable presence
here.

The rest of the film is damn-near what you can imagine if you close
your eyes and picture potential setups and events for the Portokalos
family. Paris is a fascinating character, but unfortunately
underwhelming because, fitting for her character and her situation, she
keeps getting nudged out of the frame by her louder counterparts. It
would've been nice to see a setup solely involving Paris and her
decision of grappling with her parents, her heritage, and her decision
of where to go to school. Instead, we get a pretty lukewarm plot
involving her making impromptu prom plans with another boy (The Naked
Brothers Band's Alex Wolff) after he is rejected by the prettiest girl
in school. That's about as cliché as Greeks kissing each side of
another person's face when they first see one another.

However, "My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2" has some remarkably funny
moments. A scene involving Gus stuck in a bathtub isn't played for the
kind of bawdy and slapstick gimmicks you'd expect and a scene between
all the female Portokalos members at a beauty salon is the epitome of
what I wanted from this film all along: good conversation amongst
people you can believe are family. Because of their general talent and
the fact that they've done this before, the cast's chemistry is fun and
the events of the film are lively and concise enough to assure it's
never boring and always moving. It's the best sequel you probably
could've made twelve years later, and if that's good enough for you,
it's certainly good enough for a rainy day at the movies.
<|_=00=_|>
sequel (noun)  "a literary work, movie, etc., that is complete in
itself but continues the narrative of a preceding work." That's the
definition on dictionary.com. Miriam-Webster.com says that the word's
origin is "Middle English, from Anglo-French sequele, from Latin
sequela, from sequi to follow." Unfortunately for Gus Portokalos, the
root of the word "sequel" cannot be traced to any Greek word, but it
also in no way means "completely original". Actually, it kinda means
the opposite. I generally avoid reading other reviews before I write
mine, but when I saw the low scores that critics on various websites
gave to "My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2" (PG-13, 1:34), I had to at least
take a peek at some of their comments.

Most criticisms of this movie can be summed up in one word 
"unoriginal"  but is that fair? It's a sequel, people! Think of it
like this: If you went to spend time with a friend whom you haven't
seen in 14 years, would you be happy if your friend acted completely
differently than the last time you were together? What if that friend
refused to talk about the history you two shared, instead insisting on
discussing all new topics, expecting you to enjoy that conversation as
much as you'd enjoy a little reminiscing? Well, this film doesn't make
those mistakes  and is to be commended for it! For those of us who
loved the 2002 original, seeing this movie is a lot like visiting an
old friend  and it's a visit filled with the perfect combination of
fond memories and new experiences that are both fun and sweet.

Correction: Seeing "My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2" is like visiting a LOT
of old friends. First up is our host, actress and comedienne Nia
Vardalos. She wrote the screenplay for the original, which became the
highest-grossing romantic comedy of all time (!) and earned Vardalos an
Oscar nomination for Best Original Screenplay. Naturally, Hollywood
types and ordinary fans alike have been asking her about a sequel ever
since, but she cared enough about quality and her own integrity that
she says she didn't write the sequel until she had a story that she
felt was good enough, and she was ready to write it well enough to be
worthy of the original. And when Vardalos wrote her new story, she
brought back all the main characters from the first film  and many of
the minor ones  and all played by the original actors! Our calendars
tell us that the sequel came 14 years after the original, but that's 18
years to a Greek (or, at least, to these Greeks). Toula (Vardalos)
still lives next door to her parents, Gus (Michael Constantine) and
Maria (Lainie Kazan) and she's still married to Ian Miller (John
Corbett), with whom she is raising their daughter, Paris (Elena
Kampouris). Paris is a 17-year-old high school senior who, like her
mother before her, works part-time at the family-owned Greek
restaurant, feels smothered by her loud, proud, loving but meddling
Greek family, and wants that proverbial "something more" out of her
life. Paris' plan is to go to college  as far away from her Chicago
home as the continental U.S. can carry her. Toula is struggling to deal
with her only child leaving  and with keeping the passion in her and
Ian's busy lives.

And then there's the rest of the family. Just to cite a few examples:
Ian's best friend, Mike (Vardalos' real-life husband Ian Gomez), has
gotten married and become a police officer. Toula's cousin, Angelo
(Joey Fatone) is the last unmarried member of his generation in the
family and he's catching some flak for it. Toula's Grandma Yiayia (Bess
Meisler  who is believed to be in her 90s), who is, of course, also
Paris' great-grandmother, is not only alive and kicking, but even
funnier and more developed as a character than in the first film. I
won't spoil the movie's big surprises by telling you about the changes
in all of the characters' lives, but I will say that almost all of
their stories are updated  and in ways that are alternately fun,
surprising and always logical and right for the individual characters.
There are also a few new characters, played by familiar faces such as
Rob Riggle, John Stamos and Rita Wilson (the producer who brought the
idea of the original film to the production company of her husband, Tom
Hanks).

But what about the "big fat Greek wedding" (#2) from the movie's title?
Well, the "my" no longer refers to Toula, but to her mother! Gus
discovers that his and Maria's wedding license was not signed by a
licensed priest, meaning that they were never legally married. Maria
sees this news as an opportunity to make Gus woo her more romantically
than he did the first time and show her how much he really cares.
Obviously (given the movie's title), the old man eventually gets with
the program and Maria begins planning a big fat you know  but when
the planning hits a major snag, it starts to look like there will be no
Greek wedding after all. This sets the stage for a grand finale which
brings together all the film's story lines in ways that are more fun
and heartfelt and less predictable than some critics say.

"My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2" is everything a sequel should be. The
script, directing and strong ensemble acting all remain true to the
original characters. Great running gags from the first film continue
(although some are overplayed), but also work well standing alone,
while many of the new jokes and sight gags are laugh-out-loud funny.
Although there's a minor Gus-centered sub-plot that I could've done
without, the multiple story lines are fresh and woven together
wonderfully. This film isn't perfect, but it's nearly as hilarious and
has even more heart than its much-beloved inspiration. "A"
<|_=00=_|>
My son and I just came home after seeing "My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2."
We loved the first movie and laughed but when seeing the sequel, I must
warn you, I laughed until I cried and had sore stomach muscles. There
were more hilarious scenes this time around than the first time and a
multitude of new ones. If I could have given "My Big Fat Greek Wedding
2" a rating of 11 or 12, I would not hesitate. All of the original cast
of characters from "My Big Fat Greek Wedding" are in this movie. These
characters are the ones whom we fell in love with. Getting to know
everyone's quirks and idiosyncrasies in more detail was beyond
enjoyable, amusing and refreshing. There are some awesome underlying
messages creatively blended with humor that effectively relay messages
we all should take heed and learn from. What warmed my heart and
tickled my funny bone also made me feel loved and accepted as a member
of the Portokalos family, despite what my DNA may show otherwise. On
the way to the movie theater, I decided to keep an open mind. I ignored
the negative and hateful reviews of "My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2" to
form my own opinions. I cannot begin to express how ecstatic I am that
we saw this movie. So, my advice to is overlook the spiteful,
pessimistic reviews and opinions you read and hear about this movie.
Then take a break, bring some face tissues, go to the theater and see
"My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2".
<|_=00=_|>
First let me say that I loved the 1st movie. I watch it often (maybe
too often. lol) Anyway, I was looking forward to this sequel. I haven't
been this excited about a movie since the Harry Potter series. I rushed
my husband so we could get to the movies 30 minutes prior to showtime.
I expected a crowd, but when we arrived it was quiet. Evidently not
everyone was anxiously awaiting this film. 

I thought the movie started out a little slowly, but it was funny and
heartwarming. People in the theater were laughing and clapping and
genuinely enjoying it. We enjoyed it too. Did some parts feel forced?
Yes. Was it more of the same from the first movie? Yes, but I loved
that about it. When the 1st movie ended, I wanted to know more about
the characters and their lives. This movie allowed that to happen. I
loved that they were able to bring back the old cast. (There is nothing
worse than seeing a sequel with different actors.) I loved that the
characters were just the same as before, only a little older. 

This isn't a film to change your worldview, but it is fun for
entertainment. I'm looking forward to being able to buy it blu-ray, so
I can watch it again and again.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the features that I enjoyed about the original My Big Fat Greek
Wedding was its low-stress plot line. It was a romantic comedy; you
knew how it was going to end anyway. So Nia Vardalos did not bother to
write faked-up plot twists to drive her characters apart. The tension,
such as it was, was provided by the self-doubts of the main character,
her romance with an outsider, and the surmountable obstacles and
inevitable adjustments and culture clashes that such a union
precipitated. As the main character blossomed from ugly duckling to
swan, finding herself along the way, you really grew to care about her
successes and to root for her burgeoning love affair with the perfect
man, Ian.

The problem with such a Cinderella story is that a wedding marks the
end of the road. Events after the wedding are practically irrelevant in
the rom com tradition. So how do you write a sequel to a rom com? Many
writers have revisited fairy tale romances, after the wedding, to tell
bleak tales of doom, gloom, and disillusionment. Into the Woods is a
prime example: fairy tale endings segue into misery, betrayal and
destruction. Frankly, I find such post-Modern tales of woe to be
intellectually lazy and tiresome. The reality of the post-wedding state
may be complex but it is not universally unhappy. All weddings do not
end in divorce! Nia Vardalos had the happy idea to make her sequel be
about how we turn into our own parents as we raise our own children. In
my opinion, there is no Hollywood comedy writer better equipped to
address this topic than Nia Vardalos! Beneath the comedy shtick and
general silliness, My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2 is a thoughtful
meditation on dealing with our inevitable transformations as we mutate
from young lovers to parents to burgeoning empty-nesters, while
learning to nurture ourselves and our primary relationships in the
midst of overpowering family and outside-world demands. Do we take our
partners for granted? Can we change at any age, as the world changes,
or are we stuck? Can we come to terms with the choices that we've made
in life? How do we do this while raising children, dealing with our
aging parents, and the inevitable disappointments and bizarre turns
that life has in store for us? The miracle is that Nia Vardalos and her
team have managed to address these kinds of topics while making a
fast-moving, slapstick, effervescent comedy that keeps an audience
constantly laughing. I thought the film was a tremendous achievement,
heart-warming and entertaining.

Some critics have dissed this film for being full of shtick and ethnic
humor, and for having plot twists that "don't go anywhere." Why? Those
were the features of the original film. I EXPECTED a film without woe
or major crises, a romp. But I got a lot more. The subject matter was
refreshingly adult.

Toula, the romantic lead from the original movie, has now become a
working Mom, stuck again supporting her family's restaurant business,
dealing with her teen daughter's angst and disdain. Toula's fairy tale
makeover from the 1st film has disappeared: poor Toula has no time for
the hairdresser's, she's trying to be SuperMom... driving her daughter
even crazier. Amusingly, Ian is more perfect than ever, now Principal
of his daughter's high school. Regardless, his own daughter wants him
to pretend that they don't know one another "because the other kids
think I'm a narc!" In addition, Toula's family has become so demanding
that Toula and Ian's marriage suffers. The story really gets rolling
when Toula's father, Gus, while researching his family tree to prove
his direct descent from Alexander the Great, discovers that his own
marriage was not legal. Can Gus overcome his male chauvinism long
enough to woo his own wife into another Big Fat Greek Wedding? Like her
father, Toula, too, takes her spouse for granted as she bounces between
the demands of Motherhood and Daughterhood; Toula has become her
father. Can these couples re-energize their own marriages? Can Toula
and Ian's daughter, Paris, find her own love and/or strike out on her
own? Or will they all be suffocated by their Big Greek Family? The
unusual feature of this film is the parallelism of the generational
story lines, parents and children and grandchildren, all struggling
with related issues in their different ways, as they come to terms with
themselves as individuals and as parts of the larger, all-devouring,
eating-and-breeding Blob, the Portakalos family.

Nia Vardalos worked on the script for four years, and it pays off in
her final fascinating and funny film. There are a handful of jokes and
bits that die a thousand deaths, but the majority of the movie is
hilarious and, overall, My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2 is tremendous fun
and a superior sequel.

In a final postscript: the coming-out-as-gay subplot featuring Joey
Fatone. Some reviewers have criticized this subplot for going nowhere.
As a gay/bisexual man, I must disagree with these reviewers. Joey
Fatone's character's gay storyline is the next step in LGBT activism.
Finally, a gay character who comes out to his family without major
drama! At last! It's inspirational. Has this ever happened in a
Hollywood film before? Nia Vardalos and director Kirk Jones must
understand the significance, or why bother with the storyline as it
stands in the final film? It's very uneventfulness is revolutionary.
Sure, it would have been better if there had been more backstory. But I
was just grateful to have a gay storyline in a film that was neither
the butt of a joke nor a drama-soaked misery. It's about time!
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe we waited this long to revisit this amazing collection
of characters. When the original came out, they were like a refreshing
storm, giving us a funny but insightful look at another world, yet it
had enough commonalities with most of us. We could all relate to the
dynamics of relatives, loneliness, love, and other themes.

Somehow, the themes are back, with a fresh spin that parallels the
original and has the many generations dealing with similar problems.
Toula is back and she is still dealing with her parents' proximity and
meddling. She is also about to experience her own separation from a
daughter that belongs to a new generation and might be overwhelmed by
too much affection.

Because of technicalities, Toula's parents are not "legally" married,
and things must be fixed. This opens the door for a succession of
jokes, one-liners, and some very funny situations. They might not have
worked had it not been because the cast, though looking older, remains
as charming as ever. They're loud, and we love them just like that.

We get to see Paris learn that she needs her family when it's time to
make decisions, and she is also to become part of the bunch when the
family members need to help each other. Of course, this wouldn't be a
Greek movie, if we still didn't have various traditions come through
and clash with the American counterparts. It's not offensive, just like
adding a different type of spice to the mix, and of course, there is a
new wedding in the picture, and everyone is involved.

One of the freshest turns is Bess Meisier, as the grandma who
surprisingly is still around and is funnier than ever, with her
gestures, and a new look in the later part of the picture. Enjoy her
perfect coming timing.

Overall, MFGW2 is a welcome return of our old friends, so enjoy the
celebration, be ready to smile, laugh and have a great time.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie with somewhat low expectations. I saw the
original many many years ago, but honestly, can't remember much about
it. I went on a random Sunday night and it hit the spot. I thought it
was very entertaining, funny, and enjoyable. The characters were
likable and you were rooting for them. I have a big Italian family, and
many of these character reminded me of my own family. Yes, they are
loud and nosy and all up in each others business, but they love hard
and have fun. They understand the importance of family and I thoroughly
enjoyed every moment of it. I would recommend this movie to all ages
and it is family friendly.
<|_=00=_|>
You know what you're going to get with this movie - and it delivers.
It's a good sequel. The downsides are that the plot is pretty thin and
unfortunately 50% of the jokes are in the trailer. But it's a feel good
movie and it's fun to see everyone from the original cast, 14 years
later, including Ian Miller's parents. Funniest parts were when Gus's
young grandsons ape him in explaining how the root of every word you
can think of actually comes from the Greek.

Nice cameos from Rita Wilson (wife of Tom Hanks and the reason why the
first movie got made), bundt cakes, Toula's big glasses and Windex.
Lots of "in" jokes for those of us who loved the first movie and
thought it was a refreshing change from typical Hollywood fare. Well
done, Nia Vardalos. And by the way, she looks stunning in the red lace
mini dress at the end of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I am from Colombia, and two years ago I went to Greece, lived with two
incredible Greek Families, learned as much as I could about Greek
Culture, I fell in love of this amazing country and the kindest people
I've ever met... Now, I saw at this movie in the list and I never
doubted of click on and start watching it.. Only if you are a foreigner
who visited and explored the Greek culture somehow you will be able to
feel closer to those amazing people... watch the movie took me back to
the best two months I have had abroad of my country... listening to the
Greek accent, the happiness and union of Greek families, the pita-
gyros somewhere and some Greek words that I still remember;all that
little stuff relives feelings and memories I will never forget... Thank
You Greece!!!
