
I'm sure this film is going to divide audiences, in the same way that
"Kingsman" did.

It's 1977 Los Angeles. Star Wars has premiered. Disco is in full swing.
And porn star Misty Mountains has just died (spectacularly). It's
pretty disturbing then that dodgy licensed private investigator Holland
March (Ryan Gosling) has been hired two days later to find Misty by the
slightly kooky Mrs Glenn (Lois Smith, the equally kooky doctor in
"Minority Report") who saw her through the windows of Misty's home.
Never one to turn down a pay check, Holland takes the case and the
trail leads him to search for a missing girl called Amelia (Margaret
Qualley). This leads him right into the substantial fists of the 'heavy
for hire' Jackson Healey (Russell Crowe), who's been hired by Amelia
NOT to be found. But it's clear that Amelia is at the centre of a
tornado of intrigue, since her mother Judith (Kim Basinger) is head of
the Justice department and there are some heavies from New York and
Detroit looking for Amelia too.

As the film's tag-line admits "The Nice Guys" are "far from nice", and
this is a sort of bromance buddy movie of the likes of "Lethal Weapon".
(And that comparison is 100% valid since - and I honestly discovered
this after I wrote that - director Shane Black ("Iron Man 3") got into
cinema by writing the screenplay for the original "Lethal Weapon" back
in 1987). But "The Nice Guys" has an edge that those films of the 80's
couldn't have got away with. Subtle it ain't. There is a lot of
violence, a bit of 70's porn and some fruity language that sensitive
viewers may find offensive. (All in all, it's a bit of a surprise that
it got away with a '15' certificate in the UK).

But it's also insanely funny at times. Some of the sight gags are laugh
out loud material (and I don't tend to act on that often in a packed
cinema). You might recall in "Diamond's Are Forever" that a Vegas hood
tosses Plenty O' Toole out of Bond's hotel window. "Good Shot" quips
Bond. "I didn't know there was a pool down there" responds the hoodlum.
The basics of this scene are given a fresh and wonderfully gory rework
that is truly memorable.

Gosling and Crowe have great chemistry together (although the degree of
acting required by Crowe is debatable: he looks and acts like he seems
to in most media interviews!) Some of their dialogue appears distinctly
ad-libbed, which shows how comfortable they were with the roles. And
Matt Bomer and Beau Knapp make memorably crazed villains. A role that
unfortunately does irritate is Qualley's: the character of Amelia is
supposed to be a bit crazed, but her speaking part is 120% off the
scale.

The acting star of the show though is young Australian Angourie Rice as
Holland's morally-centred and bright daughter Holly, who steals just
about every scene she's in. A young lady to watch for the future.

1970's LA is nicely realised, with nice little subliminal drop-in
shots: a Jaws 2 poster; Tower Records; the original Hollywood Tower
Hotel. And the film naturally attracts some banging' 70's tunes to the
soundtrack, with Al Green peerless over the closing titles.

But it's not perfect. The plot is quite impenetrable (I'm still unclear
exactly what the relationship between Misty and Amelia was). And
Black's screenplay (written with Anthony Bagarozzi) over-eggs the
pudding of the final showdown scene. But while it won't be to
everyone's tastes, I thought it was a blast from beginning to end: a
guilty pleasure of bad taste that begs for a sequel. I would go to see
the Gosling/Crowe show again. One of the most entertaining films of the
year so far.

Please visit http://bob-the-movie-man.com to see the graphical version
of this review and provide feedback on your views. (Thanks).
<|_=00=_|>
The Nice Guys represents the buddy movie genre at its best. Shane Black
is a excellent director and a brilliant writer. He knows how to create
hilarious characters and how to put them in absurd scenes  absurd in a
comic way. The gags are all unexpected; I was constantly asking myself
"What the hell is going on?", and then burst into laughter. The plot
could seem weird at the beginning, but it's not the main point in this
movie, it is only used to create a context to the jokes. People in the
theater couldn't stop laughing. There is a new and original joke every
two minutes. Russell Crowe plays his part very well, but Ryan Gosling's
performance is already cult. All is in the look in his eyes, and that
stupid expression on his face. Two stupid and impulsive men in an
outrageous world full of porn stars and guns, fighting for...money. And
truth, of course. Always the old truth about some kind of conspiracy
(the only weakness in the movie). Hopefully, Shane Black doesn't insist
too much on that and concentrates himself on the constant jokes. I
guarantee you, you will laugh a lot. I know I've just watched an
excellent movie when I feel sad during the credits, because it's
already over. And then, it's just pure happiness.
<|_=00=_|>
Having divided cinema-goers after entering blockbuster territory with
Iron Man 3, it's refreshing for Shane Black to return to the big screen
with a much smaller scale film in the form of The Nice Guys. Starring
Russell Crowe as hired enforcer Jackson Healy and Ryan Gosling as
private eye Holland March, the plot involves the two attempting to find
a missing girl named Amelia and uncover why several men are trying to
kill her, with the pair soon find themselves caught up in a plot much
bigger than either of them had originally anticipated. Functioning
essentially as a 'buddy movie' which plays out as a neo-noir, The Nice
Guys is a genre pairing that works beautifully thanks to the central
performances and Black's script which is equal parts hilarious and
clever.

Set in 1977 Los Angeles, The Nice Guys cleverly cements itself within
the period that the story takes place by referencing actual events.
With the city being plagued by smog throughout the 1970s, car companies
were urged to attach catalytic converters to their newer vehicles in an
attempt to reduce pollution, and it's these facts that Black chooses to
revolve his narrative around, as well as the growth of the porn
industry and institutional corruption. Each of these components work in
tandem to create a story which understands it's time period much better
than the recent X- Men: Apocalypse, making it feel entirely necessary
rather than a narrative gimmick, and allows Black to fully showcase his
talents as a writer by utilising a historic period in such an effective
way.

No matter how effective this setting is, it wouldn't be nearly as
enjoyable had it not been for the characters that inhabit it. Jackson
Healy and Holland March may occupy familiar territory within a buddy
movie, but Black's witty dialogue and fantastic performances from his
leading men ensure that the film's protagonists never feel stale. Crowe
and Gosling prove to be one of the best double acts in recent years,
with the former giving his best performance in almost a decade and the
latter displaying the full range of his comedic talents after dabbling
with comedy in The Big Short and Crazy, Stupid, Love. Together, their
characters exist as a flawed odd couple who manage to bring out the
best in each other  a trope of the buddy movie  yet the way in which
Black presents both them and their budding friendship/partnership is
completely believable and hilarious.

It's this hilarity that is present throughout the clever narrative that
elevates The Nice Guys above recent buddy movies such as Ride Along,
proving that films of this genre can have brains and humour instead of
just the latter. Mixing slapstick with physical comedy and witty
dialogue, Black has created a film which should appeal to a wide
variety of people no matter what tickles their funny bone, and do so
while telling an often complex tale of corruption in 1970s LA. It's
this mix of comedic stylings that provides levity to some of the more
violent scenes featured within the film and Black makes sure that the
jokes are never too quippy or predictable at any point.

Unpredictability may be a dirty word in Hollywood yet here, it greatly
helps the film in terms of both the humour and the plot. As good and as
funny as the two leads are, it's Angourie Rice that steals many of the
best lines as March's daughter, Holly, which may very well be the most
surprising aspect of the film. Though only thirteen, Holly is presented
as being much more efficient than her father and often exists as his
guiding light when his problem with alcohol gets the better of him, and
as a young actress, Rice displays an incredible amount of composure
amongst two of Hollywood's leading men. Plot wise, there's several
twists and turns within the narrative that allows the audience to
discover things as the characters do, which aids the mystery within the
plot and ensures that each revelation is met with surprise from both
those on screen and in the cinema.

If there's one flaw to be found within The Nice Guys, however, it does
also relate to the plot. While Black's script is clever, there are
times when viewers may get a little bit lost as the investigation
unfolds. This is partly due to Black's reluctance to include exposition
heavy scenes which is, for the most part, a smart technique but one
that can be troublesome in a film such as this. Filmmakers should never
rely too much on exposition in order to tell a compelling story  I'm
looking at you, Nolan  but if it is used wisely and incorporated
subtly, it can be a great help when connecting the dots that make up
the plot. A scene towards the end of the film that reveals the big
picture to the characters and the audience does feature exposition that
doesn't feel too heavy handed, proving that Black is capable of
providing information through dialogue that sounds natural.

Thankfully, the scene in question brings viewers up to speed before the
thrilling, and often explosive, finale at the Los Angles Auto Show
which provides a satisfying conclusion to the events that preceded it.
With a new Predator on the cards for Black in the very near future,
it's a pleasure to see him deliver a smaller film before he returns to
blockbuster territory and reminds us all just how enjoyable a night at
the cinema can be.

A comedy with brains, Black's latest benefits from a superb script and
great performances from Crowe, Gosling, and it's secondary cast
members. When it comes to value for money this summer, you'll be hard
pressed to find a film that can offer it quite like The Nice Guys does.
<|_=00=_|>
The Nice Guys is written and directed by Shane Black and stars Ryan
Gosling and Russell Crowe as two detectives who try to solve a case
regarding a missing girl and the death of a porn actress in Los Angeles
during the 70s.

I'm a big Shane Black fan ever since my childhood, with Lethal Weapon
being one of my all-time favorites. After that I followed his career,
and I have to say, he is a really great writer/director. Kiss Kiss Bang
Bang is another great movie which he wrote and directed which some
might argue it brought Robert Downey Jr. back in the center of the
attention, and before the whole Marvel business started. Black is great
at writing buddy comedies with crime and mystery touches and The Nice
Guys is one of his best works to date.

First of all, the two main actors, Russell Crowe and Ryan Gosling, have
an amazing on-screen chemistry. Crowe plays Jackson Healy, a
by-the-book though guy enforcer type who you call when want to have
someone taken care of. Crowe is now over 50 in real life, his age is
starting to show, but he embraces that completely in this film. He is a
little overweight and some of the action scenes he pulls might not look
that believable, but he is absolutely perfect in this role. Ryan
Gosling took a break from the more silent type roles (Drive, Place
Beyond the Bines) which were becoming a bit too much for me and instead
takes a comedic turn in this movie. He has some of the funniest lines,
he gets in the craziest situations and yet there's also a dark side to
him, having some drinking problems and at the same time trying to raise
his daughter (Angouire Rice), who is wise beyond her years.

The story itself is not the most original and unique, it doesn't really
break new ground and you can solve the mystery on your own while
watching the movie. As soon as one character was introduced, I
immediately put the clues together. But that's okay, it doesn't really
need to do all those things. We were not promised some original concept
or never before seen plot, we were promised an action comedy that
offers two great characters and a very clever script.

What I truly love about this movie is how simple it actually is. It's
not part of a huge franchise, it's not a CGI fest, there are no
superheroes, there are no flying cars, we just follow two guys trying
to solve a mystery. It really goes back to the 80-90s era, when we had
some great action-comedies like the Lethal Weapon franchise or Beverly
Hills Cop. It's a nice breath of fresh air with some clever dialogue,
noir elements, good action and two perfect stars in the main roles. The
Nice Guys is a nice surprise and it deserves a 9 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
I'll admit that I am unfamiliar with most of Shane Black's original
works, watching The Nice Guys made me want to go back and take a look
at his earlier films. The characters were well written, even better
cast, and fit well with the theme of the film. There was rare a dull
moment, it seemed I was either enjoying the dark comedic tone, or
getting engaged in the plot. While the first two thirds of the film
seemed excellent, the writers set themselves up for a fantastic finish,
but were unable to capitalize on that potential. The script seemed to
suddenly turn very basic, with things "falling" into place almost too
miraculously to be true. I never felt like I had truly been given an
ending worthy of a classic detective story, but the fast pace of the
film and humor was enough to make it very enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
A movie-like thing masquerading as a period noir buddy cop comedy. I've
read a number of reviews so far and one thing that almost everyone
agrees on, even those who like the movie, is that the screenplay is a
big hot mess. There is no momentum to the story, which is somehow both
predictable and unfocused. As soon as Kim Bassinger's character shows
up we know where this is all going but who cares anyway? The movie
attempts to swerve towards the broadly comic and surreal but is not
inspired enough to revel in its own fun and allow the audience to
forgive the meandering and ultimately nonsensical plot for the window
dressing that it is. 

The characters lack sharp definition and development. Gosling and Crowe
give whatever glimmer of hope there is to this movie but the material
is not worthy. They may have been miscast but its almost impossible to
tell due to the writing. Their characters are not very likable,
consistent or distinguishable from each other(important with odd couple
dynamics). 

Supporting characters are not the fun colorful characters one would
hope to have from such a movie. Gosling's daughter character is played
by a talented young actress but unfortunately this is one of the worst
elements of the movie. The child character who behaves like an adult is
a cringe worthy staple of Hollywood and that is exactly what we get
with in this movie. And why in a buddy cop movie are you focusing so
much attention on buddy cop's 12 year old daughter? Why?? You could
have a romantic interest or a fun villain but no, we get a third wheel
Nancy Drew character.

From the beginning the daughter character is forced into the plot like
this is a four quadrant family friendly comedy and I inwardly groaned
as I realized that I was going to have to live with this decision by
the screenwriters. This film has a rather bizarre obsession with
children and even weaves in inappropriate porn jokes and adult
situations with children in ways that I found off- putting, and I love
South Park and edgy humor involving kids so that's saying something. 

The movie is too scattershot and all over the place. Worst of all, its
not very funny. There are maybe three moments in the movie that are
chuckle worthy and they are featured in the trailer. The filmmaker has
fun with the 1977 setting but this movie could have taken place in 2016
or 2026 or 2177, it doesn't matter.
<|_=00=_|>
I Really liked this movie,all the way up until shortly after the one
hour mark. Than it just took a 180 turn for the worse,and ended up
getting really really stupid.Which was quite annoying.

In the beginning it was funny and charming and full of good quips back
and forth, between the two leads.

Some of the situations was a bit over the top,but you could live with
em,cause the rest of the movie held up fine. But than comes the one
hour mark,and things start going down hill. Up until now,Russel has
been the smart one and Ryan was the dorky drunk guy. But than suddenly
they both turn into dumb and dumber.And that just ruined it for
me.After that I lost total interest in the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The Nice Guys is pretty much a buddy cop comedy, except instead of
cops, they're a private investigator and a contract tough guy who find
themselves both looking for the same girl, who's gotten herself wrapped
up in political and pornographic intrigue. While there are a number of
action sequences, The Nice Guys is focused more on delivering humour
and jokes based around a couple of reasonably well-developed characters
and a mystery that's a little absurd and off- the-wall.

The comedy on offer here is quality stuff. The Nice Guys isn't just the
latest Apatow or Rogen production that seems to just recycle jokes from
other movies. Many of the jokes are well- thought out and some of them
are actually clever. There's also a number of more slapstick moments,
but none of them come as hammy, including the sight of Ryan Gosling
fumbling with his gun and cigarette while sat in a cubicle. The comedy
can be a little dark at times though, so if you like lighter laughs,
The Nice Guys probably isn't your kind of movie. On that note, I was
quite surprised at the amount of violence, gore, and nudity in play.
Thankfully it's only gratuitous when it needs to be (which in this
movie basically means for comedic effect). People do die, sometimes
gruesomely, and there are a lot of boobs and constant talk of sex and
pornography, sometimes from kids. Again if these kinds of things offend
your soft heart, avoid The Nice Guys.

Talking of kids in this movie, one of the earliest lines refers to how
kids these days know too much and act too grown up. This is a subtle
theme of the entire movie. The line in question refers to a thirteen
year old girl who chats up a guy three times her age for some weed, and
another scene has a kid on a bike talking about his big dick, but more
prominently is Angourie Rice who plays Holly, the PI's daughter, and
shows a massive amount of maturity in every scene, often showing up her
father in smarts. I would love to see a sequel set a number of years
ahead where we follow a grown up Holly continuing her father's work.

The father himself, Holland March, is Ryan Gosling on top form. Most of
the roles I'd seen him play were super serious ones, and his mumbling,
tortured personas, while fantastic, started to grate. Here he is
completely different. He's a silly, fumbling idiot a lot of the time,
and provides the most laughs. His sense of comedy timing is perfect,
and his slapstick antics are flat-out hilarious. That's not to mean
that he plays the fool. In a lesser actors hands, that's exactly how
March's character would have come across, but Gosling manages to
balance all the over-the-top comedy with something a bit more grounded.
While he shows a lot of signs of idiocy, he also shows some
intelligence that helps us believe his role as a father and detective.
Unfortunately I can't level the same praise on Russell Crowe who I
can't decide whether he phoned it in for the paycheck, or tried too
hard. When it comes to comedy, Crowe is Gosling's opposite; almost
entirely unfunny, even when his lines do a lot of the legwork for him.
He's not a complete failure, but he looks awkward and uncomfortable
more times than he doesn't. Margaret Qualley as the missing girl is
also a bit of a swing and a miss. Her hysteric lunacy comes off more as
a hormonal teenager shouting things she doesn't really mean, than a
girl who believes fully in her claims and is determined for the world
to know what she does. Thankfully there's Keith David, Matt Bomer, and
Beau Knapp who more than make up for her in the supporting side of
things.

I never really laugh out loud when I'm by myself, especially in the
cinema, but The Nice Guys had me chuckling heartily with alarming
frequency. It's not a perfect movie, not even a perfect comedy, but
it's right up there amongst the best comedies, for certain. I found it
hilarious, and that's all that really mattered. I give it a solid 8/10
and would recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
'70s detective movie starring Ryan Gosling and Russell Crowe, directed
by Kiss Kiss Bang Bang's Shane Black. It is a ton of fun. There's
definitely something missing that I'm not quite able to put my finger
on - it really feels like it should be an all-time classic, but ends up
falling short. There's some weaknesses in the script, like Black isn't
quite able to make his themes work entirely. It has so much great stuff
in it, though. The two leads are ace, both giving near-career best
performances. Angourie Rice is also excellent as Gosling's teenage
daughter. They do fail to establish a great antagonist, though bad guys
Matt Bomer, Keith David and Beau Knapp are all memorable. Others who
will remain nameless aren't as good. The film is very funny,
thankfully, with Crowe and Gosling bouncing off each other nicely. It
is true most of the best bits were given away in the film's two
trailers. If you haven't seen them, you might enjoy this even more than
I did. I'd definitely recommend it either way.
<|_=00=_|>
Shane Black doing what he excels at the most and doing it at the very
best: "The Nice Guys" is funny, smart, action packed, violent,
irreverent, thrilling and entertaining all at the same time without
ever having tonal shift problems, it molds so many elements into one
cohesive package that will give you a blast at the cinema and won't
alienate you even with the sudden appearance of a giant talking bug in
a car.

What has to be addressed immediately is the fact that if there was ever
a prize for best on-screen chemistry for 2016 the race is already over,
Crowe and Gosling light up the frame with an overwhelming energy, this
is something we haven't seen in quite some time. Their job might be
overlooked and discounted by some, but this is nothing short of genius,
the way in which these two actors bring to life this story is
illuminating, their timing, their banter, their personal dynamic, it is
all in the brilliant script, but what the two of them do is elevate it
to levels that I think not even Shane Black could have ever imagined. I
mean they just had to look at each other for me to curl up laughing
stupid. They don't have a false beat. And when you try to look back and
think of who was better as soon as you point to one, you feel like
you've made the wrong choice. Crowe's stoicism is played to perfection
and when he boils up it pays off incredibly. Then there's Gosling who
is recently on a roll; he was a highlight of "The Big Short" and showed
comedic chops I didn't know he had, then comes this film and if there
was ever any doubt of his comedic timing believe me is dead. The way he
moves is enough to make you marvel and laugh at what he's doing, he has
multiple moments of physical comedy that had me rolling on the floor,
not to mention his witty, smart-ass dialogue that he nails.

And we aren't even halfway done with the cast yet, everybody in this
film not only is cast perfectly, but kills it. Kim Basinger's casting
as a callback to "L.A. Confidential" is a great choice, but then
getting into the more important characters: Matt Bomer is terrifying as
the cold blooded killer and it is so important to be so if you want to
give the audience catharsis when the final showdown happens. It is
great to see Keith David again on screen in this kind of supporting
character role that he always, unequivocally shines in, he is truly one
of the bests in my opinion, there isn't wrong he can do. Finally
Angourie Rice is a revelation, she steels the movie from Crowe and
Gosling so well it feels like this movie is about the three of them
together.

Now, all of these actors get the chance to do such amazingly inspired
work thanks to Shane Black. His screenplay presents us to a group of
characters that are brilliantly well written and developed and tied
into a plot that is absorbing and crazy. I don't know if this film is
better written or directed because the two crafts combine seamlessly in
this picture. There are so many moving elements and Black keeps up with
all of them without ever leaving the audience behind or making them
loose interest. moreover the way the setting is used is breathtaking
and I mean that literally. He makes these characters move through Los
Angeles and between a million easter eggs that I'm sure I missed half
of, the locations give the film a whole other level of fascination, it
has one of the best party scenes in recent memory. The greatness lies
in the fact that story and setting feed each other and couldn't be
taken apart, bringing to life a visual feast for the eyes that is
grounded in story and character.

And there's still much to talk about: soundtrack, action and fight
scenes, pace, cinematography, sound, all of these elements deserve a
paragraph on their own. The excellence of filmaking in display here is
in my opinion really remarkable. Does it have faults? Or course: it can
occasionally digress into 70s visual extravaganza just for the sake of
it, the plot is thrilling and all, yet come to really think of it,
unfortunately, it comes apart slightly too easily, but these are all
details that have to be addressed, yet they did not take away from the
overall experience which is one of the funniest and most thrilling
rides of the year that I cannot wait to check out again in the theater
with a bunch of friend.
