
As Nicholas Sparks' film adaptations go, Ross Katz's "The Choice" is a
better film than the bland "Longest Ride" we got last year and
certainly miles past the perplexing and downright unbelievable "Safe
Haven" in 2013. With that being said, it's still burdened by the same
kind of misguided tropes and cloying incredulity that makes each of
these films a chore to sit through. These films come decorated in the
same kind of clothing as the next, as they're built from the ground up
on impossibly romantic circumstances, characters that always look
beautiful no matter what, a truly tragic plot device played up
perfectly to engineer an emotional reaction rather than naturally
warrant one, and a slew of "perfect moments" to make your relationship
with your significant other look like a slog. And, specific to this
one, seriously questionable treatment of its female character. Happy
Valentine's Day.

This time, we focus on Travis Parker (Benjamin Walker), a veterinarian
working with his father (Tom Wilkinson) at his practice, living in the
small coastal town of Beaufort, North Carolina. Travis lives on his own
and enjoys the peacefulness brought on by cold beer, his beach chair,
and his dog, until his quietness is disrupted by his new neighbor Gabby
Holland (Teresa Palmer). Gabby is a med student, who is currently
dating a fellow doctor, but her playfully stubborn aura makes her all
the more attractive to Travis.

When her boyfriend leaves for a medical retreat for several weeks, the
two succumb to intense emotional desires, have sex, and begin to that
thing that so many young people do nowadays where they act like they're
dating to others, have sex and sleep together like they are, but really
aren't together. When her boyfriend gets back, Gabby immediately wants
things to go back to the way things were before he left, leaving Travis
out to dry, and making them both look like immature, stupid people who
can't appropriately handle or discuss their own baggage. Nonetheless,
Gabby winds up breaking up with him and her and Travis wind up getting
married and starting a family of their own.

This may sound like I just went through the entire film's plot, but
that wouldn't make sense since I never addressed the core "choice" this
film and its two lead characters love to talk about through narration.
Well, "the choice" comes towards the end, when a catastrophic accident
occurs and leaves one of the parties with a big decision. However, Katz
(who directed "Adult Beginners" two years ago) and screenwriter Bryan
Sipe rush through this whole circumstance at the end like it's a big
afterthought. The fundamental "choice" of the film isn't introduced
until far too late in the picture, where it can't develop, and as a
result, feels like a tacked on conclusion.

"The Choice" is a tad more forgivable than many other Sparks-branded
pictures because at least one of our leads has an ounce of personality
this time around. Benjamin Walker's, who already looks and talks like a
young Colin Firth, Travis is a very snarky character throughout the
picture, which at least makes him an interesting personality rather
than a plastic presence. Teresa Palmer's Gabby is a blander, more
ordinary female lead, but her ability to handle the more dramatic
scenes with competence makes up for her lack of character development.

I think the most problematic thing about "The Choice" as a whole is the
strange way it tries to pass off unromantic instance as romantic, and,
if we're going to be completely critical of the film's ideology here,
almost makes a case for "no means yes" misogyny that has plagued women
for decades. Consider the scene when Travis drives all the way out to
Gabby's parents' home, where she is staying for the weekend, to ask her
parents for her hand in marriage. Gabby is clearly horrified by this
entire circumstance, yet her mother and father are in awe of Travis's
conviction of wanting to marry her. Though she repeatedly says "no" a
good dozen times, her mother and father keep insisting that this is
what's best for her, going as far to say this is what she wants, and
even encourage Travis by giving him a ring with which to propose. The
next scene, they're happily married in a church. What a strange,
uncomfortable scene that illustrates the least romantic circumstance
that basically tells Gabby's character, "stop resisting, smile, and
accept the ring, you ingrate." 

Getting all riled up about the gender relations in the latest Nicholas
Sparks' film is a losing battle in and of itself because these films
are so contrived and detrimental not only to men and women but romantic
expectations in general that pervasive analysis only warrants a
headache. This is another loser in the long line of these mediocre,
incredulous films that perpetuate false ideas of romance with the same
narrative structure and emotional manipulation so much so that the
white flag I've been waving at these films for the last few years, in
utter defeat and contempt, has long been discolored.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are looking for a movie you can zone out during this is the one
for you! The Choice once again delivered Nicholas Sparks
tried-and-tested formula, full of Hallmark moments oh and not
forgetting a basket full of puppies!! Only this time it felt a bit like
a check list. Boy meets girl ✓ Girl is not interested in boy ✓ Boy and
girl get together ✓ Boy takes girl out in a rowing boat ✓ Boy and girl
split up ✓ Boy and girl get back together ✓ etc etc etc

The problem is whilst the screen writer and director are ticking off
the list they forgot to make it credible. (I felt incredibly sorry for
Gabby's dog who gives birth to puppies who look about 8 weeks old
OUCH!!) 

I will say that in the cinema there were a group of girls around 14
years old all ahhing, laughing, crying and clapping so I guess I now
know which audience this movie is aimed at. 

Would I recommend my friends go see this movie? No but I would tell
them to watch it on TV if they were looking for something to watch and
fill time.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. When the word formulaic is used to
describe a movie or book, it's typically meant as a disparagement. We
must admit, however, that if the formula works, it only makes sense
(and dollars) to stick with it. Most Hollywood blockbuster franchises
are built around a basic formula  superheroes, romantic-comedies,
alien invasions, etc. Author Nicholas Sparks (The Notebook) has taken
his tragic-romance novel formula and turned it into big screen gold.
This is the eleventh film developed from his writing, and it's likely
to be another successful entry into the Sparks canon.

Director Ross Katz (Adult Beginners, 2015) is at the helm of the
screenplay by Bryan Sipe (upcoming Demolition) and many of the familiar
Sparks features are present. First off, the key players are all
exceedingly attractive  Ralph Lauren model attractive. Secondly, there
is a will they/won't they romance that will of course happen and then
may fall apart, but probably won't. And third, some type of tragedy
will occur that will kick off a stream of tears from a certain segment
of the audience.

This one begins with a narrator's humble-brag promising to tell us the
"secret of life". That narrator is Travis, played with an over-flowing
abundance of southern charm by Benjamin Walker (Abraham Lincoln:
Vampire Hunter, 2012). His main vices are a tendency to use "damn" to
the point of overkill in most every conversation, and his natural
ability to attract the ladies. Oh, and he has a rescue dog and a lake
house and he is a veterinarian. See, in the Sparks universe, everyone
is beautiful and successful. Travis has his eye on his new neighbor,
who is pretending to be annoyed but mostly admits to playing a game of
hard-to-get. This is Gabby (Teresa Palmer, Warm Bodies 2013), and she
is beautiful and a doctor-to-be. Gabby's current boyfriend is, of
course, a handsome doctor. Ryan is played by Tom Welling (a bit heftier
than his days as Clark Kent/Superman in "Smallville").

The beautiful Maggie Grace (Taken) plays Travis' sister, and Alexandra
Daddario (San Andreas) plays Monica  she is not only beautiful, but
she is also the nicest, most understanding and supportive "other" woman
ever seen on screen. Tom Wilkinson plays Travis' veterinarian dad, and
Sharon Blackwood plays the wise-cracking and match-making assistant
Cora. If that's not enough beauty and success for you, we also get
"puppies in a basket"! Come for the chuckles and tears  just not
twists or surprises. Fans of this genre will get exactly what they
want. It's a romantic fantasy set in the somewhat realistic world of
doctors, veterinarians, and equestrians. The faces are perfect. The
dialogue is snappy without being demanding (even in the God
discussion). Many scenes feature loyal dogs, or a serene lake, or the
"moon and stars". Even the difficult parts of life  raising kids,
health issues, etc  are given the "yada, yada, yada" treatment. While
Travis claims over and over that Gabby "bothers him", it's the kind of
bother that creates a cryfest in the theatre  whether things go right
or wrong. It's also the reason that all eleven Sparks films feature a
couple of lovers on the poster. Just remember, if that formula works .
<|_=00=_|>
"Every path you take leads to another choice. Some choices change
everything." Travis (Walker) is a confirmed bachelor who loves being
single and doing what he wants. When his new neighbor Gabby (Palmer)
shows up at his house everything in him changes. Now Travis will stop
at nothing to be with her. After all his pursuits he finally wins her
over, but when the unthinkable happens Travis must once again make a
choice that will affect both of their lives forever. Going in to this I
was not excited at all. I know 99% of women love the Nicholas Sparks
movies, but for me they are just too ridiculous. In the Notebook the
main guy builds the woman he is obsessed with a house. In The Lucky One
within a week of meeting the girl he fixes her car, boat and teaches
her son to play baseball. It is hard for me to get past the perfect man
image that is portrayed and they really lose me. Again, being a guy I
am not the target audience for these movies. All that said this was, to
me, the best of all the movies made from his books. The characters were
actually real and believable. There were no over the top scenes and I
was actually into this movie more than I expected. Without ruining
anything, the ending did get over the top cheesy for me and lost me a
little, but since this is a chick flick that is to be expected.
Overall, it could have been because of my expectations but this was not
a bad movie at all and is a date night movie women will love and men
will be able to watch without too much pain. I surprisingly, extremely
surprisingly, give this an A-.
<|_=00=_|>
In a small coastal town, the veterinarian Travis Shaw (Benjamin Walker)
works with his father Shep (Tom Wilkinson) and is very close to his
beloved sister Steph (Maggie Grace). Travis is very successful with the
women and dates Monica (Alexandra Daddario) every now and then. When
the resident Gabby Holland (Teresa Palmer) moves to the next door
house, she initially believes he is a pretentious man. But when her
boyfriend Ryan MacCarthy (Tom Welling), who is fellow doctor in the
same hospital where she works, needs to travel to another city, Gabby
and Travis have a relationship and fall in love with each other. Out of
the blue, Ryan returns and proposes to marry her. Now Gabby has to make
a choice between her two loves. 

"The Choice" is enjoyable love story with nice characters divided in
two parts, beginning with a witty romance and ending with a
heartbreaking drama. Teresa Palmer is the greatest attraction and never
disappoints. The fat Tom Welling surprises those that followed the
"Smalville" series. The unknown Benjamin Walker has a good performance
and his declaration of his love to Gabby's family is the best part of
this film. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "A Escolha" ("The Choice")
<|_=00=_|>
On a scale of 1 to 10, "The Choice" (PG-13, 1:51) is an 11  and that's
a fact. Hmmm. Maybe I should clarify. It's a fact this is the 11th
Nicholas Sparks book to come to the big screen and that's significant.
Although the most popular Sparks adaptation is 2004's "The Notebook",
the author's big-screen streak started at the end of the last century
with the Kevin Costner starrer "Message in a Bottle". The film that
rounds out Sparks' first cinematic decathlon is 2015's "The Longest
Ride". On one hand, movie adaptations of his books have made a lot of
money  an average of nearly 2 ½ times what they cost to make (and
that's in U.S. box office receipts alone)! On the other hand, only one
Sparks film ("The Notebook") garnered over 50% positive critical
reviews as counted by Rotten Tomatoes and Metacritic. But who listens
to the critics, right? I like to think you're reading this review
because the Movie Fan FB page is run by movie fans and for movie fans.
But (big but) in this case we agree with the critics. We've enjoyed
the Nicholas Sparks movies that we've seen (to varying degrees, of
course)  including "The Longest Ride" (his last one before this one)
but "The Choice"? Not so much. Allow me to explain Travis Parker
(Benjamin Walker) is a free-wheeling bachelor who lives in a big house
on the waters of (what some people have taken to calling) the "Inner
Banks" of North Carolina. He has a boat, he's handy with a hammer and
he loves animals so much that he became a veterinarian. (Are you
swooning yet?) He's also handsome and charming  and he knows it. In
fact, he uses his positives to flirt shamelessly and sometimes dates
steadily but never really commits. His new neighbor is Gabby Holland
(Teresa Palmer). (Naturally, she lives right next door. All the better
for Travis and Gabby to eyeball each other.) Gabby is pretty and has a
killer bod. She's smart enough to be a medical student, assertive
enough to complain when the noise level next door interrupts her
studying and she's a fairly deep, spiritual person. She also loves
animals. She and Travis each have big dogs, a female for Gabby and a
male for Travis. Other than their pets, they have very little in common
and their personalities often clash. Their first encounter includes
Gabby yelling at Travis and Travis telling Gabby that she bothers him.
In spite of (or maybe because of) all that, of course, they fall in
love. (And if you think that's a spoiler, then you probably don't know
who Nicholas Sparks is and probably wouldn't be going to see this movie
anyway.) It also won't come as a surprise to most Movie Fans that
Travis and Gabby's romance quickly becomes more complicated than simply
some differences in temperament and the way they see the world. For
starters, they're both already in relationships with other people.
Gabby is practically engaged to the kind and handsome young Dr. Ryan
McCarthy (Tom Welling) and Travis is "off-and-on" with the beautiful
and devoted Monica (Alexandra Daddario). But that doesn't stop Travis
or Gabby from flirting with each other and spending time together
privately, and doing other stuff, when Ryan is out of town and when
Monica isn't around. Meanwhile, Travis is being encouraged by his
sister, Stephanie (Maggie Grace) and his father, Dr. Shep (Tom
Wilkinson), who owns the veterinary practice where Travis works. Of
course, sooner or later, Monica is going to come around again and Ryan
is going to come back home. In the interest of avoiding actual
spoilers, I won't tell you how those inevitable encounters go and I
won't tell you about "the choice" referenced in the movie's title even
though the first scene strongly hints at it.

"The Choice" is predictable, overly formulaic and not very romantic.
The movie emphasizes the cute over the cuddly. The cute scenes are a
mixture of kind of cute and mildly annoying, while the romantic scenes
need more Sparks. The problems start with Sparks' over reliance on an
increasingly tired formula, Bryan Sipe's unrealistic, immoral (with all
that cheating and deception) and sometimes silly script and Ross Katz'
uninspired direction, but the biggest problem is the two romantic
leads. Walker seems to be borrowing too heavily from the Matthew
McConaughey Book of Southern Charm, and, especially at certain angles,
Walker looks distractingly like a young Liam Neeson (a perception just
reinforced by seeing his character's sister played by the same young
woman who played Neeson's daughter in the "Taken" films). For her part,
Palmer doesn't do anything to make herself more alluring when her
character starts to show interest in Walker's character  or even make
any effort to seem likable. Their acting is barely passable and, even
worse, they have about as much on-screen chemistry as a couple of empty
test tubes. As bad as all that is, the portion of the movie after the
film's titular dilemma is revealed, but before THE choice is actually
made is interminable. Hard-core Nicholas Sparks fans may like this
movie, but presented with the choice, I'd suggest just watching "The
Notebook" again. My choice is to give this unromantic romance a "D+",
while hoping that the next two Sparks adaptations ("At First Sight" and
"True Believer") manage to be more touching or, at least tolerable.
<|_=00=_|>
Another Nicholas Sparks' (The Notebook) novel adapted for the screen
where there's some love, some sadness, some happiness and a dash of
mystery. 'The Notebook' was such a captivating love story that it
cemented Mr sparks word on romance as the only word. The many mediocre
stories that followed proved otherwise. Perhaps it's in the medium and
the storyteller's ability to take the novel and turn it into a
successful screenplay? But 'The Last Song', where Mr Sparks flexed his
screenplay talents, is without a doubt the worst of the bunch.

Neighbours, Travis and Gabby, meet as most annoying neighbours meet, in
a heated engagement over noise, which quickly turns from outrage to
mild intrigue to full on schoolyard-smitten. 

She's a doctor to be from a wealthy family and he a vet from modest
upbringings  complete with a southern accent even though neither his
sister nor father shares this accent. How peculiar. Was Benjamin Walker
merely flexing his craft for accents or was it that nobody wants to
hear Tom Wilkinson attempt a southern accent? And then how does one
make the creative decision, do we remove the southern charm or remove
Tom Wilkinson? You remove neither and pretend no one will notice,
which, as you can see, totally worked. Smooth transition, my foreign
soul totally couldn't tell that the Parks family don't share a familial
speech pattern. But major digression there.

So, the doctor to be and the wild and crazy animal doctor  I know
right, a wild and crazy vet because that's so common to find  more
digression.

So, they flirt over a litter of puppies and with a few smooth moves are
engulfed in the intoxication of the other. Things seem to be moving on
swimmingly until things stop moving along swimmingly. Mainly because it
gets a little boring. Or a lot boring, depending on the type of person
you are. But the boredom is there, how much you want to drink up is
entirely up to you. I personally could have had fifteen per cent less
and a tad more T&A but apparently there's more romance in the awkward
middle than the sexy beginning.

Give or take a few captivating moments, 'The Choice' is not as moving
as 'The Notebook', nor is it as sexy as "The Longest Ride" but it is
nowhere near as brain-dead as "The Last Song"  take that for what its
worth.
<|_=00=_|>
I usually don't write reviews, but this movie was fantastic. The movie
pulled at your heart throughout the entire movie. Its funny, sexy, and
sad with a case of real life thrown in for good measure. The characters
are fantastic, and the setting on the coast if beautiful. Did you ever
have that real love in your live, and you could feel it slipping away,
well this is the movie for you. What did you do to get it back, or to
try and get it back? Did you walk away and say it wasn't meant to be,
or did you fight for it? Did you give it your all? Well, take a watch
of this one, and see what happens. You will be glad you went for a
spin. Be prepared for a roller coaster for ups and downs on the
emotional scale. In the end, can you make The Choice?
<|_=00=_|>
I'm about half way on the Nicholas Sparks Love  Hate scale. I feel
roughly the same when it comes to all of these movies. I sit there,
counting down the clichés and thinking about how it's the same god damn
thing, but I'm not tearing my eyes out. I'm not going to attack people
for liking it, demand my money back after seeing it or try to call
Nicholas Sparks mean names. I mean hell, he's made eleven movies out of
this gig, I guess he's doing something right. And yes The Choice feels
the same, and it's not really anything new.

Nicholas Sparks based movies tend to not be too strongly centred around
the actual story, but the characters. The world doesn't change around
them, and the events effect nobody but the protagonists, but the
relationship is why people bother in the first place. The Choice is no
different and this is no surprise.

The movie tells the story of a girl who moves in next door to a guy,
they annoy each other and initially sort-of dislike each other, then
time goes on and eventually end up loving each other Then some other
stuff happens. Look the actual story is nothing new. Have you seen Safe
Haven? The Last Song? Countless other movies in this genre? Then you've
seen this. The difference in these movies are the actual characters,
however trivial or gimmicky these differences may be. 

Travis is a formulaic easy going guy with a southern accent and a
cowboy attitude, he is loud and obnoxious and annoys the girl next
door; Gabby, she's an intelligent woman who's interning to be a doctor
with some obligatory drama added in, these characters interact and we
see their relationship grow throughout the film. This is used as an
obligatory comparison between the two protagonists, as he's introduced
partying and listening to rock and roll. There are also some side
characters in the film who are simply not people in any sense of the
word. They play along as 'Friend Number 1,' 'Friend number 2,' and
'friend 1's wife' and so on. They also seem have all of the free time
in the world, can ditch their children whenever it's convenient and
look like they're auditioning to advertise picnics on the cover of some
magazine as they all smile for eternity and are nothing but absolutely
perfect at having fun and partying. I'll keep my complaints here
limited, as this isn't too big of a deal considering that they are side
characters. Some other side characters with more depth however appear
in the film too; Gabby's boyfriend from the beginning of the film Ryan
is a doctor whose parents own the hospital where she and he work. (They
all have relationships that are super complicated to explain in these
movies!) He's predictably played off as some 'Villain' character even
though he actually doesn't do anything wrong The morals regarding this
part of the story I personally find to be pretty messy If anything,
Gabby is the villain Travis' family including his father and sister
are also present. His sister doesn't really have a story of her own but
acts as a catalyst for dialogue. His father has a sad and cute little
story of his own thrown in for good measure as well. 

The movie uses many open shots of lakes, beaches, stars and so on to
romanticize everything in the film from something as prominent as the
protagonists' relationship to even minor details. Everything looks
perfect. This movie is like an advertisement. It glorifies its'
settings, praises its' characters and unrealistically portrays a life
of perfectness. It's an advertisement. You want to have a relationship
like this, you want to live in a place like this and you want to be as
happy as all of the perfect people in the movie. Anything that does go
wrong is soon shown as a good thing because it showed how much
characters loved each other or it helped in some way that wasn't
obvious at first. 

The dialogue is cheesy, but the actors are competent enough and do sell
the emotion. Especially on Benjamin Walker's part playing Travis, I
admit he turned out to be pretty likable even after being initially
unlikable. I even felt a little for him in the final act. Whether they
are phoning it in or not, I believe that the actors do a good job here.
Nothing ground-breaking in terms of film acting but nothing illusion
breaking either. 

The writing does feel is lazy, as we fall back into elements taken
straight out of the ten previous installments of this 'franchise.' It's
also extremely unbalanced. There is a part in the film where I could
have sworn that could have been the ending and it would have been fine
But it just kept going But if you just sit back and watch, it's a cute
little film to see on (or around) valentine's day. 

Being predictable, full of exaggerated emotion and attempting to be as
romantic as can possible be, The Choice is a hit or miss. See it or
not. If you don't see it you're certainly not missing out too much, but
if you want to see it, then by all means see it and you'll get what you
expect. It's better than Safe Haven and not as good as The Notebook.
But honestly that's just splitting hairs. You've seen this before, but
if it's your type of film, you'll probably enjoy it. Over all, I
personally found the story to be somewhat lacking in originality, but
the characters to be somewhat likable and the third act to be somewhat
emotional despite being predictable and rushed. This movie's no
masterpiece, but it's not offensive either. It's fine. And hey! This
one has dogs! I like dogs! 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Well, welcome to the assembly line. Where the pick-up/proposal line of
the day is 'Bother me all my life, come be my wife'. 

I did ask for it, heading to this one on the big screen in this season,
but then, perhaps not, since Sparks has had decent flicks to his
credit, not the least being 'Message in a bottle', or 'The notebook'
(even 'A walk to remember' had its moments, to be fair). 

First, the good parts, which barely pass muster: a good-looking lead
pair (Walker, hot off 'In the heart of the sea' and our very own 'Abe
Lincoln: Vampire hunter'n and Kristen Stewart stand-in Teresa Palmer),
lush visuals and locations, across the Carolinas (or what stands in for
those) albeit low-rent to a T, supporting actors slumming for their
paychecks (Tom Wilkinson, Maggie Grace...) propping this up a few
notches, from its deserved status as a made- for-TLC movie (in
hindsight, perhaps they shouldn't have signed on?)....and some of the
background score is passable too....And I confess, Palmer and Daddario
are easy on the eyes, while there's something about Grace.....(more on
that below)

The bad parts? Everything else. From the predictability of the plot, to
the very badly written lines (how did the actors keep a straight face
for most of it...I'm sure there's a blooper reel in there someplace),
to the entire 3d act, which almost makes a case for how not to make
your flick/novel/plot/screenplay/story predictable/by- the-numbers, and
reflecting on the bad days that Smallville's Tom Welling is having to
see after the demise of his TV series. Ben Walker and Tessa Palmer can
survive this, so can Wilkinson, but can Welling? Now, Maggie Grace.
Won't deny she's got talent, or a frigging good agent. There's
something about the time she spends on the screen that just....makes
one want (right since she was 'Lost', and then, ahem, 'Taken' thrice)
to close your eyes and shut your ears, while shuddering all the time.
This outing of her's is no different. 

In spite of the decent parts described above, this one's predominantly
a complete waste of time, effort and money.....but there's an audience
for such cinema, for sure.....
