
Greetings again from the darkness. As a devotee and lover of the
cinematic art form, I tend to focus on the positive elements of films,
and maintain a near reverent respect for filmmakers who engage in
personal projects. Because of this, I typically avoid labels such as
"bad" or "good" and instead focus on the experience. Unfortunately,
this latest from writer/director Angelina Jolie (billed for the first
time as Angelina Jolie Pitt) has delivered a prolonged experience of
monotony and misery that can only be described as bad. Or awful. Or
even beyond awful.

It's based in the mid-1970's and filmed on the island of Gozo in Malta.
The setting is stunningly beautiful, and cinematographer Christian
Berger captures the essence of this unique spot with naturalistic
lighting and plenty of wide shots of the rocky beaches that provide the
foundation for a classy and quaint inn run by Michel (Niels Arestrup, A
Prophet). Roland (Brad Pitt) and Vanessa (Angelina Jolie) are the
epitome of an unhappily married couple  though they are stylishly
dressed while driving their 1967 Citroen convertible.

He is a writer who doesn't write and she is a former dancer who doesn't
dance. While he is not writing, Roland sucks down gin, beer and
anything else Michel will serve him. Vanessa mostly hangs out in the
room popping pills and watching a fisherman in a row boat. When they
are together, they rarely speak except to ensure we viewers understand
just how miserable they are  with a lousy reason that isn't explained
until late in the film. Mostly she bats her porn star fake eye lashes
while he sports a porn star mustache.

A glimmer of hope emerges when a honeymooning couple takes the room
next door. Lea (Melanie Laurent) and Francois (Melvil Poupaud) seem
quite happy and enjoy spending time together in bed. We know this
because Vanessa discovers a peephole where she can take in the sights.
In what is probably the only interesting twist, Lea and Roland are soon
sharing peeps  a step that somehow begins the process of rebuilding
their relationship. Of course, that doesn't happen without many more
scenes of misery prior to the quite predictable finish.

Angelina is clearly paying tribute to the 1950's and 1960's French
art-house films, but having two unlikable lead characters who can't
stand to be in the same room never allows the viewers to connect 
though she seizes many opportunities to show off her exquisitely
rebuilt breasts. The film is entirely too long  and feels even longer
 as it squanders a real chance to explore the second stage of
marriage. The beautiful scenery and Gainsbourg songs don't come close
to making this a movie worth enduring.
<|_=00=_|>
Brooding, aimlessly wandering through city streets, laying in bed,
smoking, and sulking would be much more enjoyable activities if we
could all look as beautiful as Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie Pitt do
some variation of the five for nearly two hours in their latest film By
the Sea. Upon initially seeing the trailer, which featured little else
other than the beautiful location of Mġarr ix-Xini, a bay on the island
of Gozo, serving as the backdrop for Brad and Angelina as they slum
around a beautiful place looking like they just came out of a makeup
chair, I was about as skeptical as could be about the level of
sustenance in this film. Because of this, it's surprising to note that
this is a film that, in spite of itself, does a nice job at posing a
commentary on relationships and marriage despite not using a great deal
of dialog or events.

Set in 1970's France, the minimalist story revolves around Roland and
Vanessa (Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie Pitt), a married couple of
fourteen years who are experiencing a rough patch in their
relationship. One can immediately tell the rough patch stems from their
inability to talk about anything, with his vice being the local tavern
where he'll go to write, but instead, drink the day away, and her
lethargy and unwillingness to get out of bed every day being her way of
coping. The two make a cozy hotel their home, as Roland writes and gets
to know the bartender Michel (Niels Arestrup), who has just lost his
wife, while Vanessa enjoys peering into the hotelroom adjacent to
theirs via a small hole in their wall, closed off by a wad of paper.
Vanessa spends her days sipping wine, squirming on her balcony, or
watching the young couple of Léa and François (Mélanie Laurent and
Melvil Poupaud) have sex through the hall.

Roland and Vanessa have a relationship predicated upon arguing,
ignoring, and moderate amounts of spousal abuse before Roland discovers
the hole in the wall and his wife's hobby. When he does, the two use
the time to drink, eat, and enjoy the view of their young neighbors
together. Their attraction to Léa and François isn't something that's
too out of the blue; the young couple are in their late twenties, which
many consider to be the best years of a person's life because they can
inconsequentially try new things and embark on new experiences without
having to make a variety of exceptions. With that, Léa and François
also still appear to be in love, willing to talk and do pretty much
anything together, be it spontaneously go out to dinner or have sex
without any kind of reservation. This leads to the subtle assertion on
Roland and Vanessa's behalf that perhaps they have overcomplicated
their own marriage, or they even have fallen out of love with one
another.

Through the pervasive bouts of staring, drinking, smoking, and
wandering in By the Sea are some seriously tender moments of
realizations, and this comes in Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie Pitt's
ability to convey emotion through their facial expressions and
mannerisms instead of Jolie Pitt replicating such emotions in a way
that would embellish their significance. Whether we see Roland act like
a hopeless drunk and make a complete buffoon out of himself in front of
Michel, his new friend, or we watch Vanessa fight and throw a tantrum
when her husband innocently visits her in the shower, we get bold
representations of mood through these scenes thanks to the understated
power of the real-life couple's acting abilities.

The fundamental flaw with Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie Pitt acting in a
film together, let alone the two producing it and Jolie Pitt writing
and directing it, is that the film will be examined in two ways: a
testament to the couple's real life relationship, which ultimately
gives it the impression of a vanity project, or it will be seen as two
high-profile tabloid figures that audiences have a hard time convincing
themselves their characters on screen aren't the same ones who still,
to this day, glitz tabloid covers in grocery stores. The hard part is
By the Sea is so minimalist in its style, so slight in its narrative
and character development, that those who aren't known to appreciate
aesthetic and craft in a film, especially in the way the film adheres
to the visual conventions (not so much technical or aesthetic) of
French New Wave, aren't likely to tolerate this film's two hour runtime
and liberal narrative. This is a film that boasts a reward that comes
with contemplation hours after you've seen it.

By the Sea, though it hinges ever-so delicately on the realm of
self-parody thanks to its excessive brooding, mopey character behavior,
and the characters constantly looking attractive despite operating in a
disheveled state of defeat, is also a sad film that mixes ideas of
marital disconnect, kinkiness, voyeurism, and marital stability in
long-term relationships in a fascinating way. Its examination of
relationships - by juxtaposing a young, idealistic couple with an aging
and distant one - paints a striking portrait of an ugly marriage
against a backdrop of beauty, adding layers to a film that would look
wonderful on a post-card. To conclude on a bizarre comparison, Jolie
Pitt's intention of how to paint marriage reminds me of how director
and photographer Larry Clark chose to paint the suburbs of America in
the 1950's - as beautiful, precise landscapes that housed dysfunction.
The same can be said for Jolie Pitt's examination of marriage.

Starring: Brad Pitt, Angelina Jolie Pitt, Mélanie Laurent, Melvil
Poupaud, and Niels Arestrup. Directed by: Angelina Jolie Pitt.
<|_=00=_|>
The notes of Chopin's Prelude in E Minor at the end neatly summarizes
this stale, borrowed and unoriginal film. That prelude is so over used
as to be a calling card of sophomore sensibility. Then again, it fits
perfectly within the overdone story: the Midi of France, of exile and
difference, of finding some true self in a marriage, and of the libido
and voyeurism.

The dramatic conceit - if it has one - is owed in part to Godard's
"Contempt": the hat that Pitt wears is like Piccoli's in the 1963 film;
a struggling writer too, together with the marriage that suffers from
some tacit fault line which only the wife knows and can cure.

In "Contempt" it had another cause, in this project it is some delusion
which has struck the writer in the vain belief that she can write, and
consequently serve a thread of scenes which can be presented as a film.

The first half is turgid and requires some intrigue to hold attention,
but instead the audience has the face of Jolie pouting behind huge
sunglasses and a Bardot-style brimmed hat with the sulking expression
of a 3 year old. Pitt takes over in this portion of the film and drinks
heavily and mumbles French. Going to the bar is preferable to the hotel
and his wife.

In the second hour the movie wakes up but seems entangled, for no other
reason, in a "menage a quatre", to give it some plot and direction. It
falls apart quickly though because the writing is inane. Locations, sun
and sea, and some unshaven locals fill in the running time, but to be
realistic, it hasn't fulfilled anything and it's been pointless.

Then Chopin's prelude is added to the closing images and we comprehend
the full mediocrity of the vision.
<|_=00=_|>
What do you do when you're a Hollywood power couple? You get your
passion projects made into films. (You might even choose to write and
direct them yourself!) And when you're a beautiful Hollywood power
couple? You cast yourselves. (It's a cinematic portrait to remind you
when you're old of how good you used to look!) And when you're a
beautiful Hollywood power couple who's getting married in the same
region where the film you wrote takes place? Well, you make the movie
on your honeymoon. (As the French say in accented English, "but of
course!") This is how "By the Sea" (R, 2:02) got made.

This movie stars Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie Pitt  the first film in
which she has been so credited and the first time the two have appeared
on screen together since Jennifer Aniston's least favorite film, 2005's
"Mr. & Mrs. Smith", during which the aforementioned couple of stars
first became a star couple. As in their previous on-screen pairing,
they are in a marriage with serious issues. This time their characters
are not trying to kill each other even though it often seems that they
want to. Both of these characters are joyless, self-loathing, rude and
selfish. There are reasons for some of this, but the main reason is
treated in the film as a dramatic reveal, rather than used to greater
effect throughout the film.

The movie takes place on the French island of Corsica in the mid-1970s,
where the couple is living temporarily in an up-scale hotel overlooking
the water. Pitt plays Roland, the writer of a well-received first
novel. He's trying to recapture his mojo, but ends up spending most of
his time holding a drink. Jolie Pitt plays Roland's wife Vanessa, who
is even more sullen than Roland and basically does nothing but sit
around hating her life and trying to decide if she hates her husband.
Roland spends his days away from their room drinking, trying to write
something and talking with the owner of the hotel's restaurant, Michel
(Niels Arestrup). Michel is kind and wise, not that it benefits the
self-centered Roland much.

Vanessa spends most of her time in a room with no television, so she
gets her entertainment by watching through a hole in the wall as their
young married neighbors (Mélanie Laurent and Melvil Poupaud) enjoy
their honeymoon. Roland and Vanessa both become friends with the
couple, because, you know, there's nothing better for a failing
marriage than peeping on a sexy young couple who have what you wish you
still had and then spending time with them, in various fate-tempting
combinations.

This film does tell an honest and revealing story of the dynamics of a
marriage in trouble (and hints at how such a marriage might be
repaired), but most of the plot is very predictable. The genuinely
interesting moments are few and far between, with its slow pace making
us feel that the movie is dragging us to those moments. But, hey, at
least the Mediterranean scenery is nice to look at.

"By the Sea" basically amounts to a very expensive cinematic photo
session for two beautiful Hollywood stars  and we get to pay to be
voyeurs! Pitt and Jolie Pitt are both undeniably easy on the eyes, as
are Laurent and Poupaud, all of whom we see in varying degrees of
nudity (especially the women). There's also no denying that the Pitts
are both very talented actors. Their acting chops are on full display
in this story, but that doesn't keep the movie from coming off feeling
self-indulgent. It doesn't help that the characters Jolie Pitt has
written are almost completely unlikeable (even Pitt's character
remarking matter-of-factly that his wife is not a good person and that
they're both "a**holes"). The script's big reveal is anti-climactic and
directed melodramatically, like much of the film. This is a
sometimes-interesting, beautifully-filmed movie whose success depends
mainly on the appeal of its two big stars. But in this film, they're
not very appealing. This is a passion project lacking in passion. "By
the Sea" should've stayed there. How do I grade such a movie as "By
the Sea"? WITH a C minus. But of course!
<|_=00=_|>
When you see a man or a woman giving a single star out of ten to a
movie, stay away from his or hers (or maybe its, you never know - some
reviews could be written by bots) reviews: they are the "talibans" of
IMDb. They hate or love a movie and never appreciate it with their
minds for the real value it may have or not in itself. And mostly, do
not trust people who use words like "turgid" in their reviews - they
are pedants.

You need a soul to understand this movie and, more importantly, you
have to understand how relations are (use to be): difficult,
heart-consuming and, sometimes, even strange.

Brad and Angelina played well, the images from Malta were beautifully
carved in stone, and yet the movie is not a memorable one. I gave it
only 7 stars out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
"By The Sea" (2015 release; 122 min.) brings the story of married
couple Roland (played by Brad Pitt) and Vanessa (played by Angeline
Jolie). As the move opens, we see them driving in a gorgeous 1960s
Citroen convertible somewhere in the south of France, while Jane
Birkin's "Jane B" is blasting on the radio. Roland and Vanessa find an
agreeable spot close by the sea and decide to stay there. Eventually
another married couple (some years younger, though) ends up in the
hotel room next to Vanessa and Roland, not aware that Vanessa found a
peep hole, allowing them to look in the other room. To tell you more
would spoil your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for
yourself how it all plays out.

Couple of comments: this is the third movie in the last 3 years
directed by Angelina Jolie (she also wrote the script), but the first
one where she directs herself (and Brad). It's been exactly 10 years
since Angelina and Brad co-starred (ironically also in a struggling
marriage, but of a very different kind!). If it sounds from my
introductory lines that a lot is happening in the movie, think again.
This is an ultra-slow moving film. You would think that this would
allow us to get to know these characters, but alas, that is not the
case either. We know virtually nothing as to why the marriage is in
trouble, and can only speculate why Vanessa seems depressed, if not
worse, and why Roland is experiencing writer's block. Despite all that,
the movie does find some traction in the second half, just in the nick
of time, frankly. The movie's photography is drop-dead gorgeous (filmed
in Malta, that stood in as the south of France). The movie features a
number of big French movie stars, including Melvil Poupaud and the
beautiful Melanie Laurent (as the other married couple) and Niels
Arestrup (as the café tender). There is a ton of great music featured
in the movie, both in the musical score, as well as French songs from
that era (think Serge Gainsbourg, Jane Birkin, Jacques Dutronc, Sheila,
etc.).

"By The Sea" opened this weekend at my local art-house theater here in
Cincinnati, and since I don't expect this to play in theaters very
long, I went to see it right away. The Saturday early evening screening
where I saw this at was attended dismally (4 people, including myself).
I can't say it surprised me as the vibe around this movie has not been
great. I nevertheless was curious about it (due to a clever trailer,
frankly). If you are interested in catching a slow-moving relationship
drama that is way off-center, I encourage you this give this a try, be
it in the theater (better hurry!), on VAD or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie wasn't meant to be enjoyable but realistic when it comes to
pain, depression, marriage trouble and human personality. The technical
quality is incredible from the locations, to photography and fancy
wardrobe but the movie goes slowly like the main couple relationship
and that is genius because you can feel exactly like Vanessa... bored,
depressed, imprisoned. In most of the first third part of the movie,
she looks like a paint, immobilized and it was meant to be that way.
She acts in a way the character seems to be futile, nasty, nonsense and
it's because she doesn't want you to like the character the same way
the character doesn't like itself. I didn't like the script that much
but it is not that terrible and I think the hidden mystery could be
something more consistent... You are there, you feel there is something
terrible causing all that pain but when it comes out you think: Was
that all? Anyway, I still think it was a good job.
<|_=00=_|>
Every year I see any number of truly great films but there is usually
one that hits me on different level to other great films altogether,a
deeper level.In 2013 it was Ridley Scott's "The Counsellor",last year
it was Jonathan Glazer's "Under The Skin".This year it is Angelina
Jolie Pitt's deeply unusual,highly erotic and incredibly well realised
"By The Sea".

First things first,the talk of it being a flop.It was never going to be
a hit,never.It is strange,unconventional,very dark and slowly paced.It
makes no concession to the filmmaking trends of today.Second thing,the
accusations of it being a vanity project.Jolie's own character is very
dislikable and says and does some horrible things in the film.Also,her
age and her aging beauty (as in she lets the camera show the age in her
face here) play a role in the film and Jolie isn't afraid to show that
whereas Melanie Laurent's character is younger,more vivacious and more
innocent.It absolutely is not a vanity project.

What the film is is a work of art and a work of true directorial
vision.It is a fascinating exploration of relationships,grief,voyeurism
and sexual mores.It goes places you don't expect it to go to.It is both
incredibly dark (though hopeful) and incredibly provocative.In terms of
the erotic aspect of the story,the way Jolie handles it is
astounding.The voyeurism scenes are just stunningly shot and realised
and the bathtub scene is one of the most powerful scenes I have seen in
a film this year.Jolie could if she chose to pursue this subject matter
in the future with her directorial work be an heiress to the great
provocateurs like Lynch,Kubrick,Cronenberg and Adrian Lyne.Her command
of mood and tone (the film is basically a tone poem) is superb.It is at
different times reminiscent of Bertolucci,Kubrick and Pinter yet is
still its own hypnotic,fiercely original thing.It also has a wonderful
vein of dark humour.

As for the performances,Pitt is outstanding in a tricky role and gives
one of the best performances of his career.That chemistry between him
and Jolie is still there as well,though used somewhat differently this
time.Melanie Laurent,Mevil Poupaud and Niels Arestrup are superb in
their great supporting roles.Jolie gives the best performance though.As
an actress she tends to be at her best when she underplays.Her work
here is incredibly subtle.It starts off as a very stylised performance
with her very slow line delivery due to the narcoticized state her
character spends a lot of the time in.She communicates so much by doing
so little.You cannot take your eyes off her.It is also a very brave
performance as her character is dislikeable and does some awful things
in the film.She looks astounding in the film as well.The way Christian
Berger (whose cinematography is the best I have seen in a film this
year) captures her face is fascinating.It is the first time I have
realised how strange (which I mean in a good way) and just how unique
Jolie's beauty is and the way he captures the age on her face is just
wonderful.

People may dismiss this review because of my respect for Jolie but I
call a spade a spade and if the film was dreck I would say so.But it is
not.It is stunning.The best film I have seen this year,it is exactly
the type of unique,provocative,strange,uncompromising cinema that I
love. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I won't say what everyone else has said about this film. What I will
say is that it was a beautiful portrayal of some of the darker emotions
in life. 

Maybe others hate to see their own loneliness on screen, by two actors
they've deemed unworthy before they've even watched it, or they have
never experienced themselves the emotions portrayed in this film. 

Melancholia is the last film I can remember portraying depression
accurately. This film is the same, though it's not as simple as, she
has depression or she is lonely. Her character was real to me and
Angelina portrayed her well. 

If you've ever met someone and loved them more than they love
themselves and despite their own thoughts of themselves then maybe you
will feel something when you watch this. If not, there are plenty more
films out there for you that require a lot less emotional range.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so seeing Tombraider as a young "wanna be" punk-ster in my day I
was enthralled by the free living, F the world, "no one cares anyway"
lifestyle Brad and Angelina lived. I loved the whole idea... Now, twice
that age, I look at this movie and I am not only bored off my a$$ by
the painfully slow plot line but also the horrendous over acting,
Angelina's hideously annoying voice, and the repetitive anti climactic
scenes. Not to mention the crying and whining rants of Mrs. Jolie
...and the HIGHLY dramatized death scene - one can not lose pints and
pints of blood and walk into thee bathroom and check out your bloody
corpse in the mirror and then fall down and die...Medical science would
contradict Hollywood's over dramatized death scene. This movie is great
if you are 15 and want to hate the world. This movie is a waste of time
if you have grown up and realized that the world does not really
revolve around the self righteous "Brangelina", as it were, and that if
you spend your life in the movie halls you are wasting a potentially
wonderful existence.
