
Yet Another Hollywood Con-job!

It ain't "West Side Story", which is quite possibly the best musical
ever made.

It also ain't "Singing in the Rain", which is arguably the best postwar
musical made in the Hollywood tradition.

It also ain't "Top Hat", rated by many as the best Rogers/Astaire
musical.

It also ain't "Moulin Rouge", which was a riot of great music, comedy,
genuine drama, and emotion.

And it ain't even "Les Misérables", arguably the finest ever stage
musical which was ruined on film by a non-professional singing cast who
could barely sing in tune, (Anne Hathaway excepted).

As with other 'duds' that are adored by the professional critics and
film insiders, such as "Birdman" and the recent "American Honey", it
seems to be yet another case of the "Kings New Clothes". Nobody dares
to criticize. 

We are told by the experts that La La Land it is absolutely brilliant
and when we go to see it we will swoon in the aisles, barely able to
find the superlatives to describe how much we loved it.

Yet if you scroll down the user reviews of this smash hit musical, in
among the glowing 10 out of ten-star reviews, you will find a fair
sprinkling of one-star reviews. Not five or six or seven stars  no,
just 1-stars among the 10-stars.

It doesn't make sense  why do all these people give it ten stars and
others only one, with headlines such as "Painfully Bad Film Musical",
"They Don't Make Them Like They Used To", and "So Disappointed!" "Been
There, Seen That" and "Visceral hatred for a con job"

If you are wondering why is it that some people can love it and others
hate it  go and read some of the one-star reviews. The reviewers are
movie lovers, (like me), and many are movie-musical lovers, (like me),
and they intelligently articulate with tremendous clarity why La La
Land has been ridiculously over-hyped, and why the endless publicity
has simply turned 99% of the movie-going public into one enormous flock
of sheep.

So what's wrong with it?

In a single word, it is INSIPID. (Insipid: lacking in qualities that
interest, stimulate or challenge; dull, vapid, flat.)

The songs are insipid.

Even though I am partial to jazz - and some of the jazz sequences with
John Legend do sparkle - in general, the music score is mundane to a
fault and the tunes are instantly forgettable.

The singing is insipid.

Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling do their best, but they are NOT
professional singers, and I suspect you could find better singers at
any local amateur dramatic musical production. The movie directors of
old were smart enough to understand that if their stars cannot sing,
such as Natalie Wood in "West Side Story", then dub in a decent singer.
How many people ever realized that Natalie didn't actually sing those
wonderful songs?

The dancing by Stone and Gosling is insipid.

Again, they do their best but they are NOT professionals. In some
sequences, you can almost sense the dance instructors off camera
shouting out "Stop! one step left! one step back!" and so on. They are
sooo wooden.

The ensemble dancers are pretty much OK, but to be honest, there are no
really great, original dance sequences that astonish and astound you-
nothing that even comes close to the kind of stuff we have seen in the
movie musicals of the past. Frankly, I can see better dance sequences
every week in "Strictly come Dancing" or "Dancing with the Stars" than
I saw in La La Land.

The story is insipid.

It takes forever to get going and for the first half of the movie you
have to pinch yourself to keep watching these insipid characters
playing out thoroughly unoriginal, utterly boring story. You really
don't care what happens to either of them.

The Story 

Struggling actress meets struggling jazz pianist. Pianist makes good,
actress dumps him because he opts for "wealth and fame" over his
musical principles  whatever that may mean. The actress gives up, and
goes home to mom; successful pianist comes to the rescue and persuades
her to go to one last audition. Guess what? She makes it and becomes a
star, and the two stars go their separate ways.

What an enthralling story, don't you think? This review hardly
qualifies as one of those containing spoilers, as the story is so
insipid.

Okay, so is anything good?

Yes  the cinematography and editing are good, as you might expect of a
movie with a budget exceeding 30 million dollars. They can afford to
hire to very best technicians that money can buy  and they do.

But a good cameraman and a good editor, and a good costume designer and
a good set designer, and so on, do not a good movie make. These
wonderful technicians were already let down from the start by director
Damien Chazelle, who wrote the insipid story and by Justin Hurwitz who
penned the insipid music.

If you've got nothing better to do, and like me, you hate all the
Hollywood franchise trash that fills our cinema screens these days,
then you might do worse than spend a couple of hours snoozing through
this piece of insipid, sleep-inducing rubbish.

But if you expect to be uplifted and leave with a fine tune ringing in
your ears, then you're in for a major disappointment.

Unless you're one of the sheep baa aah
<|_=00=_|>
The last time, I felt like this, in a cinema, I was six years old and I
was watching Star Wars. I never imagined, I would ever find that
feeling again in a cinema. That sense of being transported to another
world. 

The opening sequence took my breath away and I never got it back. Not
even at the end - which left my head spinning. It is a beautiful film
with soul, wit, charm, style and love. It is simply outrageous! Bold
and fantastic and fantastical. 

I am a straight man but my love for Ryan Gosling could change all that.
He's a melancholy genius and Emma Stone is our muse. 

This film defies genre. It is a masterpiece. I urge you to see it. I
was lucky enough to see it at the BFI London Film Festvial. 

It has been five days since I saw La La Land and I am still thinking
about it and singing the haunting refrain that plays with your soul. I
mean it gets in there - that music - the music of the firmament. Flying
still, dreaming still... thank you Damien.
<|_=00=_|>
I love musicals, but I must have missed the stand in the theater where
they were handing our the kool-aid for this one. 

Based on the hype, I had high expectations. I went in thinking "La La
Land" would be like "An American in Paris" or "The Bandwagon," but once
it started I realized it was more like "One From the Heart," or
"Everyone Says I Love You," although both of those dismal failures had
better music. 

In this film, Ryan Gosling plays a supercilious piano-playing bore who
endlessly pontificates about "jazz." Emma Stone plays his vapid love
interest, a star-struck barista who thinks she should be a movie star
because she has a home filled with movie posters and her aunt once
showed her "Casablanca." Once these two ciphers meet, the audience is
subjected the kind of dreary conversation one flees from in real life.

The musical score is deeply uninteresting. Emma and Ryan's hilltop
dance is supposed to be reminiscent of Fred Astaire and Cyd
Charisse/Ginger Rogers, but comes closer to Teri Garr and Raul Julia in
the aforementioned Coppola disaster. 

By the way, the film completely fails to capture L.A. in any way.

Kudos to Emma and Ryan for trying to sing and dance, unfortunately
proving that it takes MORE talent than they or most other Hollywood
celebrities have to perform in a musical. However, I think that Damien
Chazelle should be prevented from ever making another film musical. 

If you insist on subjecting yourself to an excruciatingly bad musical,
try "The Apple," which is a lot more fun and has better music. To check
out good-to-great musicals, see the movies that "inspired" La La
Land--the RKO Fred & Ginger movies and the MGM musicals from the 30's
through 50"s. Even the recent straight-to-video "Lucky Stiff" leaves
"La La Land" in the dust.
<|_=00=_|>
Writer/Director Damien Chazelle, who already had a nice career going
for him, explodes into the Bigtime with this delightful, mesmerizing,
and completely unexpected ode to Tinseltown.

The opening sequence (satirized on the Golden Globes) really does not
do the rest of the film justice. It is as if the cast from the FAME
remake grew up, had children of their own, and then those children
hijacked the Santa Monica freeway to do a 10 minute flash-mob dance
sequence.

From that point on, the film is hypnotic.

We segue to a love story as pure as anything since the great dramas of
the 1940s. If the film had been in B&W, you would almost have expected
to see Bette Davis in a 3-hankie tear jerker.

Except for the musical interludes, of course, which are pitch perfect
and totally wonderful.

Gosling is surprising as a leading man expected to do song and dance,
but he delivers the goods. 

Stone, who was supposed to be "the next big thing" after Easy A (2010),
steals the film and possibly the hearts of the audience as well. The
awards should flow like water, and she will deserve every one.

As I said, deep in the DNA this is an ode to Hollywood. The film
industry has always had issues with endings -- back in the day they
would film several different endings per picture -- and then decide at
the last minute which to use. Here Chazelle pays homage to that by
giving us an alternate ending, along with the "real" ending, along with
a closing sequence designed to remind everyone that nothing in
Hollywood is actually real, but everything still can be really fun.

Destined to be a classic. Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I was greatly looking forward to this movie.I had read many reviews and 
they all seemed very positive.In fact when I read my newspaper's 
critique is was given 4/4 which is unusual. How let down I am. This was 
the worst movie I have seen this year.And we saw it in a VIP theatre.It 
was so slow moving that I felt myself falling asleep. I kept looking at 
my watch saying "only another 1/2 hour." Ryan Gosling cannot really 
sing & dance.And Emma Stone may be very photogenic & a good actress but 
she also is not much of a singer/dancer.There are wonderful musicals 
such as The amazing "West Side Story",the wonderful "Grease' Chicago 
was terrific to watch also as well as "Hairspray" with Jennifer Hudson 
& 'Mama Mia" with Meryl Streep.But this mess was a dud. The plot was 
simple but its execution was a dismal failure.I cannot figure out all 
the accolades this movie is getting from the Golden Globes,critics,& 
user reviews. A few hours after this film,I cant really remember 
anything worthwhile.Do not waste your money on this film whatever the 
critics say.It is boring,non believable,& you wont really care about 
the characters.
<|_=00=_|>
A old couple left 30 minutes in. I couldn't understand the music, I
couldn't hear the lyrics. Ryan Gosling's character was a dick for 90%
of the movie. He is a good actor, but my goodness his character is an
ass hat. The story to me was blah. It was like I've see this story told
before just differently. Emma Stone is amazing. I definitely enjoyed
her more than Ryan's character, but that honestly isn't too hard. The
movie seemed pretentious and over rated as a whole. It was just
Hollywood getting off on Hollywood. Imagine if Hollywood was a person
and cloned themselves. Then Hollywood starts sucking Hollywoods dick.
There, that's most of the story. White man tries to save jazz. 

I did enjoy the visuals, editing, colours and dancing. So it was nice
to look at, I'll give it that. But the story to me was under whelming.
<|_=00=_|>
Sorry but I grew up living and loving musicals but this is tripe. None
of the "stars" are of the expected style or standard. The story is
grotesquely poor and without logic. Gosling is pathetic, I kept wanting
someone to slam the keyboard cover down on his hands, Stones voice left
me praying for a good dose of pharyngitis. In short neither can sing or
dance yet the Hollywood promo machine keep telling us how great it is
and people believe it. In short i wasted 2 hours, 7 minutes and 3
seconds of my life. For our Australian summer releases it rates nearly
as bad as Passengers.

Don't bother wasting the ticket money.
<|_=00=_|>
Well done the marketing department for creating a buzz around this
film. The first comments I read in the newspapers said this was an
uplifting life affirming experience. So how come my husband and I left
the cinema feeling thoroughly depressed with the ending. The film was
slow, boring and didn't have much to say. The opening sequence looked
promising but turned out to be an unconnected piece of entertainment
that wasn't repeated in the movie. It was left to Stone and Gosling to
stumble along with short bits of dancing and very shaky vocals. Didn't
detect any magical reaction from the audience who shuffled out in
silence. Don't believe the hype this is a just OK film probably a 5.4
rating would be nearer the truth.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, I just cannot believe all the accolades this movie is getting. The
only reason why it must be getting all these awards is that is is a
movie about Hollywood, and Hollywood loves itself very much. The acting
is vapid, the dancing mediocre, the songs forgettable, the singing
abysmal. Everyone sounds like a bad choir audition-- weak, breathy,
without focus or "ring". No legit Broadway-style singing technique. I
cannot imagine what real Broadway singers and dancers must be thinking
about this travesty.

I think it must be an exercise in navel-gazing, as the awards bodies
see themselves in these two characters. Haven't they all struggled to
get auditions? Haven't they all had screen tests? Haven't they all
tried to "make it" in Hollywood? of course they have. The awards givers
like looking at themselves in the mirror. Personally I do not like what
they see. Don't bother wasting your energy, or you will quit halfway
through, as I did. 0 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I was interested in seeing this film because not only am I a sucker for
a good musical, but I'll admit to being a big fan of Ryan Gosling and I
was intrigued to see what the director of Whiplash would do with a
musical picture to make it fresh and unique. So when I had the chance
to see a late-planned viewing at the London Film Festival, I jumped at
the chance (FYI, Ryan Gosling came to the screening as a surprise post-
film Q&A attendee despite not appearing at the Headline Gala the night
before so I was chuffed!)

The premise of the story is that Stone is a young actress who has moved
to LA to wait tables while auditioning to try and 'make it', while
Gosling is a jazz purist ("Anyone who doesn't like jazz just doesn't
have the right...context", he insists) who plays the piano in bars to
make a living and dreams of opening his own Jazz bar. Or to put it
succinctly - "Two young artists meet and fall in love while chasing
their dreams". The musical flows thematically from first love to
heartbreak and every other emotion between, with great music
throughout.

The most impressive thing about the film, for me, is just how daringly
it dances between the old-fashioned "Singing' In The Rain" style of
musical, and a bolder, modern style. The song numbers are great (the
opening number received a round of applause in my viewing) and are an
undoubted homage to classic musicals - a thoughtful mixture of old
school dance numbers you'd expect from a musical in the 50s, and
emotionally-wrenching ballads that hit you where it hurts; there is one
particular sequence toward the end of the film which is a real
gut-punch. 

Stylistically the film skirts this same line; the film again looks and
acts like a classic musical but frequently we see low-key reminders
that this is modern day; actresses using their iPhones, a video being
seen on Youtube, etc to remind us that this is set in the present day.
If we didn't have these reminders, the visuals would almost have you
thinking that this is the 1950s. The cinematography is beautiful and
overall the film is visually stunning. There is also no doubt that it
is wonderfully directed, with the same masterful control of pace and
tension that we come to expect from Damien Chazelle thanks to Whiplash.

Gosling in particular is absolutely terrific, with a typically sardonic
wit throughout. At the start of the film when his sister says she's
worried about him as life seems to have him on the ropes, he responds
"I wanna be on the ropes. I'm just letting life think it has me and
then before you know it - BAM. It's a classic rope-a-dope". His
delivery of these sorts of lines can't be matched, and it's easy to see
why the producers said in the post-film Q&A that he was the person they
wanted for the role in their wildest dreams. It's a role made for him
with tons more of the above kind of lines. But more than that, Gosling
captures a real emotional intensity at the film's emotional breaking
points, more specifically in the sequence towards the end of the film
that I mentioned earlier. He manages to convey such convincing emotion
without so much as a word.

I'd feel bad if I didn't also praise Emma Stone, who has probably never
been better. She has wonderful emotional range, from the ecstatic highs
of love to the tearful, painful lows. 

In terms of the Gosling/Stone films, this is by far the best. Their
undoubted chemistry is given the full spotlight in this film with
freedom to explore said chemistry without restriction. 

The film is ultimately everything it had the potential to be - an
unashamedly romantic musical, infused not only with great song and
dance numbers but with intense emotion and charisma from Gosling/Stone,
wonderful visuals and a unique pacing and tension from Chazelle. Oh,
and it's hilarious throughout too. A genuine achievement - must be one
of the best films I've seen in a long while. I'm annoyed I'll have to
wait so long to see it again, frankly.

Will surely win multiple Oscars and other awards.
