
Like all the best English comedies, the humor in "The Lady in the Van"
is founded on character and in eccentricity but then we should expect
nothing less from the pen of the great Alan Bennett. This is mostly a
true story we are told and it's the story of a very eccentric lady and
one, or is it two, quite eccentric men. The lady is Mary, or is it
Margaret, Shepherd who might be considered homeless were it not for the
van she lives in. The somewhat eccentric man is Bennett himself. I said
two because in this case we get two Bennetts for the price of one, Alan
the writer and Alan the householder and they are both played by Alex
Jennings.

Miss Shepherd really existed and she's the lady who, at Bennett's
request. moved her van from the street outside his house, where she had
parked it, into his driveway. Initially she was due to stay a few
months but ended up parking there for 15 years. Bennett turned the
story of her stay first into a novella and then into a play and now,
under the direction of Nicholas Hytner, into a film and a beautiful job
he's made of it.

Of course, for the purpose of dramatic and comic effect Mr Bennett has
taken liberties, adding bits here and there including a delightful
phantasmagorical ending. He also surrounds himself and Miss Shepherd
with a host of other characters, some almost as eccentric as they are.
Recreating the part she played on stage Maggie Smith is magnificent in
the title role. Of course, you could say Maggie has been playing
variations of Jean Brodie for the past 45 years. It's easy to see Miss
Brodie in the put-downs of the Dowager, Countess of Grantham had Jean
been born into a different generation or class and it's not much of a
step to see Miss Shepherd as an older, very much down-on-her-luck Jean
Brodie. A third Oscar is certainly not out of the question.

Jennings, too, has Bennett off to a tee and there's lovely support from
the likes of Frances De La Tour, Roger Allam and Deborah Findlay as
sundry neighbors while the entire cast of Bennett's "The History Boys"
manage to pop up in one form or another. If it feels slighter than some
of Bennett's other offerings it may simply be because here he is
writing about someone we would probably pass in the street without
looking twice at. Of course, if on meeting Miss Shepherd in the street
we knew what we know now, we might indeed give her a second or even a
third glance; we might even invite her to move her van into our
driveway. Slight? Not a bit of it.
<|_=00=_|>
The best thing Maggie Smith did for The Lady in the Van was not giving
a brilliant acting performance, but agreeing to reprise her stage role
as The Lady. Without that, this movie would not have been made.

This is a near-perfect "small" movie, but unlike many such films, this
one is neither slow nor boring. The film begins with the sounds of a
terrible car crash, and within ten minutes, we have several mysteries
to chew on: Who is "the lady" really; why can't she tolerate listening
to music; what happened in that car crash? These mysteries keep us
engaged while playwright Alan Bennett tells us a story that at its core
is more about the relationship between Bennett - or rather Bennett's
two selves, the one who writes and the one who lives life - and the
lady living in his driveway.

In choosing to portray himself as two characters  also a feature of
his play  Bennett has chosen a device that could have been a disaster
but in the rendering comes off brilliantly, especially near the end of
this highly engaging film. I don't want to give anything away about
that, so just watch it for yourself and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
At the bottom of the poster it says: 'This is a mostly true story.'
Nicholas Hytner directs a 'revisionist' take on Miss Shepherd, the
tramp-like old biddy who parked her van in Alan Bennett's front drive
for a few weeks that turned into 15 years. The movie version fleshes
out her story with glimpses of her past (a convent, a piano recital, a
family feud, a fatal accident) which the narrator (one of the two Alan
Bennetts played by Alex Jennings) tells us he only found out after she
died. 

A woman in front of me whispered to her companion, who wondered why
Alan Bennett had a twin, that he actually had a split personality.
That's not a bad explanation for the device of the householder Alan who
puts up with Miss Shepherd (and clears her mess from his drive) and the
writer Alan who doesn't think there's a story in this. I'm not sure
that the double-act is entirely effective or necessary: a voice-over
from the real Alan would have worked just as well, wouldn't it? 

Despite the attempts to give the Lady a life before the Van, the
screenplay is more revealing about the playwright, the reluctant
Samaritan who is also having to deal with his northern mother's journey
down the road to dementia. There are even a few references to the fact
that Mr Bennett's sexuality was being questioned for many years before
he finally outed himself.

The movie has more pace than the book and the play did. Maggie Smith is
of course simply magnificent, fully absorbed into the grimy skin of
this unlovable old harridan. Her performance is pitched midway between
the Duchess of Downton and Muriel from the Marigold Hotel, although the
character preposterously blends Hyacinth Bucket with Victor Meldrew.
The 'History Boys', who largely owe their careers to Mr Bennett, pop up
in a series of cameos, along with Frances de la Tour and Stephen
Campbell-Moore from the same play. Jim Broadbent's scrounger is the
least convincing presence and is perhaps mostly untrue.

This looks like being another highly competitive year for Oscars and
BAFTAs, but Dame Maggie is certain to be a contender and could well be
a winner. THE LADY IN THE VAN is not pitch-perfect in the way that THE
HISTORY BOYS was (and the first - best - MARIGOLD HOTEL), but it is
another master-class exemplar of British writing, acting and film-
making.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. "There's air freshener behind the
Virgin". That line should provide the necessary caution for you to be
braced for just about anything to be said by any character in this
latest from director Nicholas Hytner. Billed as "A mostly true story",
it's actually more commentary on how we treat those less fortunate and
how we use others for our own gain. That bleak message is cloaked here
in humor and a wonderful performance from Dame Maggie Smith.

Alan Bennett is an author, playwright and screenwriter known for The
History Boys and The Madness of King George (Oscar nominated for his
script). He is also at the core of this story  every bit as much as
Ms. Shepherd, the lady in the van. While living in upper crust Camden
Town, Mr. Bennett offered to let Ms. Shepherd park her van in his
driveway for a few weeks until she could make other arrangements. This
van was also her home, and the years (as they are apt to do) came and
went until this arrangement had lasted 15 years (1974-1989).

You might assume that Ms. Shepherd was an extremely appreciative
"squatter", but in fact, she was quite a cantankerous and difficult
woman, possibly/probably suffering from mental instability. Maggie
Smith brings a humanity to the role that she had previously owned
onstage and radio. She goes far deeper than the wise-cracking old lady
role we have grown accustomed to seeing her play  though her vicious
dialogue delivery remains in prime form. Throughout the film, we
assemble bits and pieces of Ms. Shepherd's background: an
educated-French speaking musician-turned nun-former ambulance
driver-who "possibly" won awards for her talents. She is also carrying
a burden of guilt from a past tragic accident that keeps her in the
confessional on a consistent basis.

Mr. Bennett is played by Alex Jennings (The Queen, 2006), and the film
actually presents dual Bennetts  the one doing the writing, and the
one doing the living. These two Bennetts are a virtual married couple 
arguing over Ms. Shepherd, and jabbing each other with barbs aimed
directly at known emotional weaknesses. The living Bennett claims to be
so full of British timidity that he couldn't possibly confront the
woman junking up his driveway. The writer Bennett takes the high road
and claims he would rather write spy stories than focus his pen on the
odorous, obnoxious transient living in his front yard. Of course, now
that we have a play and movie, it's difficult to avoid viewing Mr.
Bennett's actions as anything less than inspiration for his writing 
though the extended charitable actions cannot be minimized.

With director Hytner and writer Bennett reuniting, it's also
interesting to note that more than a dozen actors from The History Boys
make appearances here. The list includes James Corden, Frances de la
Tour, and Dominic Cooper. Also in supporting roles are Roger Allam and
Deborah Findlay (playing constantly irritated neighbors), Gwen Taylor
as Bennett's dementia-stricken mother, Jim Broadbent as a blackmailing
former cop, and Marion Bailey as a staffer at the abbey.

Filmed at the same house where the van was parked for so many years,
the film is a reminder to us to exercise tolerance and charity in
dealing with the poor. Even Bennett's grudgingly-offered assistance is
a step above what would typically be expected. While we could feel a
wide spectrum of emotions for the two main parties here, it's Ms.
Shepherd's character who says "I didn't choose. I was chosen". We are
left to interpret her words in a way that is either quite sad or
accepting.

The film mostly avoids dime store sentimentality, and that's in large
part due to Maggie Smith's performance. Few are as effective at
frightening young kids or putting the elite in their place. The ending
scene shows the real Alan Bennett cruising into the driveway on his
bicycle just as the blue plaque honoring the lady in the van is
displayed. We can be certain this gesture would not generate a "thank
you" from her.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on a 1970s biographical drama of the same name by noted British
playwright Alan Bennett, The Lady in the Van is a "mostly true story"
as mentioned at the beginning of the film. That's because Bennett had
to put up with an old homeless woman for 15 years by allowing her to
live in her van in his driveway. Then in 1999, Bennett cast Maggie
Smith as the titular hobo in his own play. Ironically, Smith plays the
same character on screen little over 15 years later. 

Smith plays Mary Shepherd, an old woman literally living out of her
van. She moves from house to house looking for parking space and is
mostly a grumpy old woman who doesn't take kindly to anyone. She is
extremely unhygienic and doesn't seem to care either. She is also a
bully, and a tough one for her age. But there's something about Mary
(no, that's a different film) that is equally poignant. She knows this
and uses it to get almost everything she wants, including couple more
vans! Meanwhile, Bennett, although always reluctant to Mary's emotional
extortion, finds it humane to accommodate her. He is often seen talking
to himself when there are two of him in the same frame. One is Bennett
in the film and the other is Bennett the playwright scripting this
story. This double imagery is also used as an allegory to illustrate
his internal conflicts. One of which is the involuntary fondness he
finds for Mary when he should be taking care of his aged mother living
elsewhere. But after moving into his driveway, Bennett slowly learns
that Mary is not the person he and everyone else think she is.

It's a bit of a mystery for us too until we learn Mary's background,
her real name, and why she's so bitter yet fragile at the same time.
While all this plays out slowly, albeit with typical British humour,
the film is only enjoyable because of Maggie Smith. Her shrill voice,
her piercing eyes, frail one moment, then boisterous the next, Smith is
simply exceptional at her age. At certain points through the film you
just want to reach out and hug her. She is that effective. 

It's not the biggest dramedy of the year and not even the funniest, but
The Lady in the Van is bound to please just about anyone. And like the
titular character, it's a film hard to love, but once you do, it's
equally hard to resist.
<|_=00=_|>
A very entertaining, and occasionally touching, film written by Alan
Bennett, a British National Treasure - though I'm sure he must be
irritated, if not sickened, by being so described. His unique voice is
instantly recognisable: self-knowing, self-mocking, never ever
self-regarding. In spite of a string of stage and screen successes, he
is essentially a man of letters: there is a literary quality about his
work, and a good deal of his humour emerges from the contrast between
the elegance of his sentences and the earthy, realistic observations
they contain.

Bennett adapted his memoir about Miss Shepherd, whose residence is the
eponymous vehicle (one of a series of vehicles, as it turns out) that
occupies his driveway for fifteen years, for the stage, which brought
director Nicholas Hytner and actors Maggie Smith and Alex Jennings on
to the project. All three return for this film version, and an
excellent job they make of it.

Bennett slyly juggles a number of subplots without you ever really
being aware that is what they are. When they are finally identified and
tied up in a package, it feels a little too neat and tidy after all
that sprawl - an interesting comparison is Charlie Kaufmann's bleaker
vision of a writer's struggle with a piece of work, Synechdoche New
York - but Bennett's droll dialogue, and his clear-sightedness over the
way compassion intertwines with guilt, compensates for the sense of
well-made screenplay that dominates the closing section of the film.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
13 November 2015 Film of Choice at The Plaza Dorchester This Afternoon
- The Lady in the Van. Dame Maggie Smith delivers an outstanding
performance as the irascible old lady who moved into Alan Bennet's
driveway. Complete with all her belongings, she and her van moved in
for a couple of months and stayed for 15 years. This mostly true story
is not a comedy, in fact, much the reverse, however, the brilliance
that is Dame Maggie Smith brought a huge range of emotions to the
screen. Having seen her interviewed recently I think she has brought a
large percentage of her own personality to this character and there are
many moments of mirth provided by the dry humour and sheer bloody
mindedness of the lady in the van. A very astute woman who lived in
fear, but also a strong minded woman who faced day to day head on and
completely lived by her own unique rules. Quite a thought provoking
film, brought to us by the very talented Alan Bennett and starring one
of our best actresses. We were also treated to a very accomplished
performance by Alex Jennings who played Alan Bennett. This deserves
awards aplenty!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Maggie Smith never disappoints. She is such an amazing actress and
continues to be in "The Lady in the Van." Such an interesting true
story of a very odd woman, this film is very endearing. The chemistry
between Maggie Smith and Alex Jennings is very enjoyable to watch.
Their relationship had a sort of codependency between them that was
really fueled by a real caring for each other for different
reasons. Director Nicholas Hytner did a great job of portraying the
comedy found in this story. And that is due to the great acting of
Maggie Smith, whom I cannot say enough about. Her recent Golden Globe
nomination for Best Actress in a Motion Picture- Comedy was well
deserved and although she didn't take home the trophy, her performance
is still one to be heavily applauded.
<|_=00=_|>
When you see vagrants sleeping rough in doorways it is grimly
fascinating to wonder how they got there. Was it a gradual descent due
to drink or drugs? Or was it an 'explosive decompression'  an event so
dramatic it capsized an otherwise stable existence? In a gripping
pre-title sequence, it is the latter that sets up the back-story for
Miss Shepherd  the titular "Lady in the Van" played by the marvelous
Dame Maggie Smith.

Based on a "mostly true" story, Miss Shepherd lives in an old Bedford
van progressing from unwelcome parking space to unwelcome parking space
in the well-to-do Gloucester Crescent in Camden (a street that
strangely the Google Streetview car has never ventured down!).

This introduces us to a selection of the local residents, including 
bizarrely  the wife of composer Ralph Vaughan-Williams (Frances de la
Tour). The wily Miss Shepherd can however spot a soft touch from miles
away and latches onto the newest resident, famous playwright Alan
Bennett played (in multiple concurrent forms) by Alex Jennings (doing a
fine impersonation). When yellow-lines necessitate action, Miss
Shepherd wheedles her van onto his driveway for "three months": three
months that turns into 15 years.

I was in two minds from the trailer as to whether I wanted to see this
film or not, and I'm so pleased that I did. What stands out, and what
makes it so enjoyable, is the whip-smart and intelligent script by
Bennett, based on his memoirs. The use of two Bennetts  one 'doing the
writing' and one 'doing the living'  could be considered contrived,
but allows the frustrations and inner demons (concerning his ailing
mother 'up north') to be given a witty and articulate voice.

Despite getting progressively typecast as a vaguely batty old woman,
Dame Maggie excels as the troubled Miss Shepherd  it is difficult to
imagine many other actresses being able to pull off this larger than
life role any better. When pathos is required (e.g. "Why did you choose
to live like this?"; "I didn't choose I was chosen") she delivers it
in heart breaking fashion. But her more comic pronouncements, such as
the one about the number of "young men" visiting Bennett's house at
"every hour of the day and night" obviously being "communists", were
hilarious. What appears on the surface to be a mildly humorous movie
turned out to have some serious belly-laughs.

Less successful in the film is the normally excellent Jim Broadbent,
playing a retired copper with an unhealthy interest in the old lady.
While this may have been a true part of the story, it really didn't
come across very satisfactorily, and the scenes seem brash and out of
kilter with the mood of the rest of the film.

A selection of cameos in the film include Dominic Cooper ("Captain
America", "Mamma Mia") and (proving how long this film has been in the
can) the now US celebrity presenter James Corden.

The slightly surreal ending of the film, set in a graveyard, might not
be to everyone's taste, but I personally enjoyed it and it added to the
kookiness of what turned out to be a pretty kooky film.

The film is directed by Nicholas Hytner. Although having a few notable
movies to his credit ("The Madness of King George", "The History
Boys"), he is better known as a regular director for National Theatre
productions in London, and the film does have something of a 'stagy'
feel about it. But as an example of a quintessential British film,
based on a 'true' subject that seems barely credible, it makes for a
heart-warming and highly entertaining trip to the movies. And in this
week of the dreadful events in Paris, we could all do with that.
Recommended.

(Please visit bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical version of this
review. Thanks).
<|_=00=_|>
The most notable features of Alan Bennett's writing are his honesty and
wry, gentle humour. Despite some plot embellishments the authenticity
of his ambivalence towards his mother and Miss Shepherd and the mixture
of guilt, exasperation and pity which governed his relationships with
these very different women, is beautifully conveyed. Maggie Smith's
brilliance lies in her ability to suggest the mental illness which
destroyed Margaret/Mary's life and still clouds her mind combined with
her shrewd determination to survive while retaining some shreds of
dignity and independence. She senses Alan's inability to turn her away
and he, in turn, seems to recognise a sensitive, traumatised soul in
the stinking, obstinate vagrant. Alex Jennings captures the essence of
Alan Bennett, his fastidiousness, his high moral standards and his
relentless pursuit of truth in his writing. The superb script and
talented cast give a vivid portrayal of this period of the writer's
life and the charm of his Camden neighborhood.
