
Every technical aspect, direction, soundtrack, performances gets a gold
star. But the story just gets sillier with each second, culminating in
a preachy ending which seems to want to shoehorn depth into a film
which has been lacking it for the most part.

The easiest comparison here is with House Party, but where the comedy
in that film was outlandish, it was at least believable and organic.
Malcolm as the hero is given many a test, but whereas a typical Hero
will meet these tests in a way that really says something specifically
about him, the waves really part suspiciously quickly for Malcolm. He
gets jumped by his high school bullies and he gets them to back down by
pointing a gun at them. Implausibly, they are not packing. He is made
to sell the MDMA he found in his backpack - like a drug king pin would
trust someone who he had never met, and surprise surprise this is
Malcolm's opportunity to screw the screwer.

It ends up a clichéd, lazy exercise that, apart from some early
set-pieces, manages to be neither funny nor dramatic.
<|_=00=_|>
Rick Famuyiwa's "Dope" opens by providing its titular term with three
distinct definitions - to paraphrase, the word can mean an illegal
drug, a stupid person, or an affirmation of something's greatness. For
the next one-hundred and ten minutes, the film works to illustrate all
of those features in some way or another through a lens that's unique,
refreshing, and respectful to its characters and their cultures.

Our main character is Malcolm (Shameik Moore), a black teenager
carefully surviving in his crime/drug-ridden neighborhood of Inglewood,
California, Despite being influenced by modern forces like the internet
and Bitcoin, he loves nineties hip-hop and the culture of yesteryear,
and so do his two closest friends, Jib ("The Grand Budapest Hotel"'s
Tony Revolori) and Diggy (Kiersey Clemons), who play in his punk band.
Malcolm is going for what seems to be the impossible, which is applying
for Harvard and forging a successful career path post-high school.
However, in the mix of taking his SAT and writing his college entrance
essay, Malcolm gets caught up in the underworld of illegal drugs and
crime in the most unconventional way possible. After being invited to a
party thrown by a drug dealer (rapper A$AP Rocky), Malcolm works to
craft a name for himself by getting invested in the online
drug-drealing world, using the help of a local hacker and Bitcoin to
create a huge influx of revenue for him and his friends.

Famuyiwa attempts to do the same thing to African-Americans that John
Hughes did with the middle class high school population in the 1980's,
which is cut through the stereotypes, the incredulous romances, and
what adults perceive teenagers to be like to really get to the heart of
them as people. People with choices and decisions to make that are
often times as big or as impacting as the ones adults make. The
difference is, however, adults come equipped with life experiences
where teenagers generally come equipped with their own instincts and
peer pressure in their decision-making.

"Dope" shows the constant struggles of being a moral teenager engulfed
in a society driven by illegal behavior and surrounded by peers who are
nudging you onto a more dangerous pathway than on which you'd like to
travel. The fact that it pays homage to the music and the urban movies
of the 1990's is interesting because "Dope" doesn't focus on an
anti-hero in a gritty neighborhood, much like the films of that era
did. Instead, adhering to the principles of Hughes, it turns to the
geek and, in turn, humanizes and paints him as a character trying to
find himself in the mix of all this madness.

Famuyiwa and cinematographer Rachel Morrison crossbreed the early
1990's hip-hop culture with the contemporary technology of the
mid-2010's, causing a culture shock of epic proportions in "Dope"'s
aesthetic variety. "Dope" has the cinematic look of acid-washed jeans,
the feel of a sun-soaked day at the beach, and the smells of everything
from acne cream, sunscreen, and marijuana ostensibly infused into every
scene. It's the kind of aesthetic that's so detail-centric it almost
channels the likes of Wes Anderson, minus the meticulous symmetry in
every scene.

Shameik Moore must be given considerable praise for his role here,
which can only be described as a breakout performance. His human
characteristics, carefully painted by Famuyiwa, his conflicted
personalities, and his subtle arrogance, all traits that, in the end,
make him very likable, echo the sentiments of Cuba Gooding, Jr. in
"Boyz 'N The Hood," another conflicted soul caught in between being
moral in a morally bankrupt area or taking the easy way out. Alongside
Revolori and Clemons, two supporting roles that, again, go far and
beyond the call of supporting roles, Moore is a talented who you find
yourself being unable to take your eyes off of throughout the entire
film.

Above all the aesthetic and character charm, "Dope" is a surprisingly
optimistic film. It doesn't get bogged down by environmental cynicism,
even when Malcolm has to turn into the kind of people he never wanted
to associate himself with. Famuyiwa takes a brave step in the opposite
direction of his peers, capturing acts like drug-dealing and backhanded
deals in a light that accentuates joy and positivity, but it's all this
that make "Dope" an even more fascinating character study, coming of
age story, and a subversive tale about life in an urban area.
<|_=00=_|>
"Dope" is not the movie that you probably expect when hearing the
title. I want to stress that. The word itself has negative connotations
(with most thinking immediately of drugs when they hear it), and though
it certainly deals with things of that sort, it isn't really that
simple. The few definitions of the word are addressed at the beginning
of the film, most notably as a slang term referring to something that
is "very good". This definition, my favorite of the few, seems to
capture the movie in the best light. 

Essentially, this is a coming-of-age picture. Our main character is
Malcolm, a high-school senior who's obsessed with 90s hip-hop culture,
and who constantly shows this affection by emulating the fashion and
language of the time. He's a straight-A student with perfect SAT scores
and seems to have everything under control - despite a few bullies -
until he finds himself taking a chance invitation to a drug dealer's
birthday party along with his two best friends. From there, he's taken
on a crazy adventure littered with bad choice after bad choice, all the
while juggling college applications and interviews that will surely
determine his future.

Writer/Director Rick Famuyiwa strips the film of any tired clichés or
stereotypes for African-American characters, and surprisingly manages
to infuse details that question the issues of racism and class
discrimination. But above all, he makes a really fun movie. The writing
is sharp and humorous, with the acting from the main trio - Shameik
Moore, Tony Revolori, and Kiersey Clemons - complimenting it
excellently. And though it's undoubtedly rough around the edges, its
wit and ceaseless energy make it irresistible.
<|_=00=_|>
Note: This was written before Chi-Raq came out which was 10 times
worst!

*In Flavor Flav voice* "Don't believe the hype!!" (Public Enemy,1988) 

As someone who grew up as an 80's baby and 90's kid to early teens, I
had high expectations for this film. I was so excited to see this
movie. My background in break dancing (bgirling) is all about 80's-
90's hip hop. I love Kid N Play's House Party, In Living Color, New
Jack Swing and Hip Hop Artists! I enjoyed the classic 1999 movie "The
Wood" starring Omar Epps and Taye Diggs, another movie by the SAME
director as "Dope," Rick Famuyiwa. The beginning of the movie "Dope"
was GOLD with the cinematography style, comedy and 90's nostalgia, BUT
right in the middle this movie CRASHED into a DISASTER as the plot
unraveled and dragged on FOREVER to ridiculous unrealistic
circumstances!! So what went wrong?

The reason there is a lot of HYPE for this movie and high ratings is
because "Dope" serves as a Black Culture 101 and Hood for Dummies for
people who have NOT been exposed to diversity BELOW middle class. The
older age crowd sees this movie as a tool to learn on what's "in" or
cool now for the new generation. Also the people who are at the top of
the Sundance film festival, the decision makers REALLY PUSHED this
movie. Then you have the black folks that just like this movie for the
hip hop and 90s references and turn a deaf ear to the black stereotypes
and terrible message. 

People are SO mind blown and so intrigued with the cool factors of this
film like the rappers and celebrity cast, 90's beats, culture, social
media and party scenes through out the movie, that they MISSED and
IGNORED the underlying NEGATIVE message that says "If you're from the
Hood, you stay Hood. And that's what you'll always be. There's NO way
out, so CONFORM." This movie also had the NERVE to imply that college
was only a WHITE thing and that selling drugs is the ONLY WAY out the
hood for a black male.

*SPOILER Alert* I haven't wanted to walk out in a movie theater in a
long time. When this movie got to the part that was SUPPOSED to be a
clever plot twist, where Malcolm's only ticket out the hood turns out
to be a TRAP to conform and push drugs, I LOST IT!!! Malcolm's Harvard
Alumni interviewer and could-have-been mentor Austin Jacoby was the
drug lord and head of the entire drug operation. He turned out to be
the final mystery person that Malcolm had to deliver the money for the
backpack of drugs to. What a simpleton coincidence! So stupid! Why
would a successful Harvard grad still be pushing drugs to the youth on
the streets?

Here you have someone also from "the bottoms" from the same hood that
made it into Harvard but stayed in the drug game, getting kids to push
dope AFTER making it "successful" out the hood. That communicates "Look
kids, even when you make it to the top universities, you still need to
sell drugs and destroy your black communities and lives. Getting lil
n**** shot up for you." I know there are plenty of people who did shady
things they felt they needed to do to get by while in the Hood, but
once they were out they DIDN'T return to destructive ways. 

The high school security guard is the same OG from The Wood, the blood
gang "Stacey" who appears to turn his life around and takes a regular
job is MORE of a role model than his Harvard connection that stayed in
the drug game. It gets WORST! *Another SPOILER* At the end Malcolm
blackmails or outsmarts Austin and convinces him to get him into
Harvard by threatening to expose his drug operation. He somehow
outsmarts an older OG and elite Harvard alum grad. Then in his STUPID
essay to Harvard he talks about selling drugs in this "woe is me, I'm
from the hood" fashion. He gets into Harvard through blackmailing
Austin and crappy essay. The attempt to be "DEEP" or profound made me
want to walk out because he was justifying selling dope and the end
climax scene PALED in Comparison to 90's movie classics like Boyz N the
Hood, Higher Learning and Above the Rim. The irony is that the male
lead character "Malcolm" looks like Ricky from Boyz N the Hood (1991)
who had a football scholarship to get out the hood (but died before he
could). Ricky chose sports as his way out the hood. Malcolm's way out
was selling dope in pill form on the Internet. This movie does the
COMPLETE opposite of what classic 90's hood/urban movies taught us, but
yet the main cast are 90's obsessed nerds??? 

Another part that was unrealistic and just plain stupid is when the
nerd Malcolm pulls out a gun with shaking nervous hands on the Blood
gangster leader at night in the hood on the street. Then the gang lead
backs off scared of him. What "blood" gangster is UNARMED in the hood,
in the worst side of Cali at night???! Later at the end, that same
Blood leader nods at him in respect to give him "props." The gang
leader doesn't challenge him seeing he is obviously shaking and most
likely wouldn't shoot. He also doesn't retaliate being punked in front
of his gang crew. YEAH OKAY SURE! 

I will end with this: "Dope" was not DOPE! It did not have the "Jazz"
(A Tribe Called Quest) or "JUICE" (1992 movie)! Read in between the
lines. Don't be simple.
<|_=00=_|>
I want to say this is a dope movie, but I personally don't think it
really is all that. I mean I think one of the reasons why some people
like this movie is because of the protagonist. Who is this geek that is
into the 90's, that a lot of geeks and maybe nerds can relate with. He
is unique in his own way, but he is relatable. So before watching this
movie, I had no idea what this movie would be about. I first thought it
would be a endearing movie about a group of retro geeks and the
relationship between then and their pursuits. However this movie is
about 3 friends who are geeks that are into 90's style and music that
gets entangled in a drug trade. This is a coming of age movie that I
really wanted to enjoy because of the unique group of friends in this.
The set up however started out really interesting and enticing, but
started to go downhill after few minutes in. And when the who drug
aspect of the movie kicked in, the movie got boring. I think this movie
would have had something if it kept going with the set up it had from
the beginning. The acting is pretty good and believable though,
especially the interactions. And I did like the message about racism
and discrimination but it just didn't connect that well in the end.
Because it felt like it was going in a entirely different vibe out of
nowhere. It just lacked the impact or the endearing charm I wanted out
of it. I didn't really like this movie nor did I enjoy it all that
much. This movie is a bit bizarre but not in a good way either. Despite
the Slippery-slope direction, this movie just kept faltering. And I am
not those people that nitpick movies for it's exposure or point fingers
at a film because of my own morals. Which some reviewers are bashing on
this film because of. However this movie didn't do it for me.

5.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer was a great visual feast but it doesn't show the scale of
the movie and how excellent it is. 3 kids from Inglewood, CA, a town
we're usually not asked to care about, have to wise up about drug
dealing. I actively tried to find a bad performance, and I couldn't
find a single one. Unlike many other "black" films, this one has
comedic elements and tries to get you to laugh using memes and potty
humor. Typically, this would carry a negative connotation, but in the
case of this movie it is excellently executed and the pace is so quick
that you don't even care how juvenile it is. I encourage everyone to
watch this movie when it releases in June, specifically on the 19th.
I'm sure it won't have the story it did at Sundance, however. Open Road
may change a few elements of the story, which would be a shame. I'm
giving this one a 9/10, just in case the movie isn't as good as it once
was at Sundance, so bear that in mind.
<|_=00=_|>
As I was driving to the movie theater to see "Dope" (R, 1:43), I was
thinking about how that word is usually used as a slang term and in one
of three main ways. Then, as the movie opened, those three definitions
appeared on the screen. (Thank you, filmmakers, for making it so easy
for me to decide how to open this review.) In short, dope can mean a
stupid person, something really cool or refer to an illegal drug. All
this begs the question, which of those definitions applies to this
film? Short answer: all of them.

The movie centers on highly intelligent black high school senior
Malcolm (Shameik Moore) and his two friends, multi-racial Jib (Tony
Revolori) and lesbian Diggy (Kiersey Clemons). Now, I only use these
labels because these characters use them for themselves. (They also
refer to each other using the n-word, a situation which is used both
for laughs and social commentary.) Here's another label the three use
for themselves: geeks. Malcolm, Jib and Diggy geek out over 1990s-era
rap and hip-hop. They see the 90s as a golden age for these kinds of
music and they dress accordingly. In their spare time, however, we see
them practicing in their punk rock band. Yup, the three main characters
use lots of labels, but they defy them at the same time. For example,
even though they see themselves as geeks, it doesn't mean that they're
not cool or are incapable of getting along with non-geeks. In short,
these labels describe the characters, but don't define them. And that
distinction is really what this movie is about.

"Dope" takes place in one of the rougher neighborhoods in L.A., another
circumstance that Malcolm seems intent on rising above. He is just
hanging out with his friends and working at getting into Harvard when a
chance meeting with a neighborhood drug dealer named Dom (A$AP Rocky)
gets him invited to Dom's birthday party at a local club. The party
doesn't exactly go as planned. Malcolm ends up leaving with Nakia (Zoë
Kravitz), a girl who Dom thinks belongs to him, but seems more
attracted to Malcolm for being "different from the others" (and maybe
because he can help her pass her GED). The next day, Malcolm discovers
that he has also left the party with a significant amount of Ecstasy
(aka Molly) and a gun that does belong to Dom. When a cell phone in the
bag rings, the caller demands the drugs. Before Malcolm can hand off
the contents of his backpack, the cell phone rings again. It's Dom,
calling from jail and warning Malcolm not to turn over the drugs to the
other caller. Malcolm is caught in the middle.

He receives instructions from Dom as to where to take the drugs, but he
and his friends are still being pursued by that first caller (Amin
Joseph). Malcom, Jib and Diggy take the drugs to a fancy house where
Dom sends them and they meet their contact's young adult children
(Keith Stanfield and Chanel Iman). Daddy's not home, so the five of
them decide to hang out. Things don't go much better at the house than
they did at the club the night before, so Malcolm and his friends are
forced to improvise. They concoct a plan to get rid of the drugs with
relatively little risk to themselves and the possibility of some
significant rewards. They enlist the help of an old acquaintance from
band camp (who also happens to be both a druggie and a hacker) by the
name of Will Sherwood (Blake Anderson). Their audacious plan may solve
all their problems, or it may land them in jail  or worse. No matter
what happens, the three friends seem destined to shed at least some of
their labels, and maybe gain some new ones.

"Dope" reminds me of the inner-city-set films of the 90s (the very
period with which the three main characters are obsessed), but with
less violence and more laughs. The movie uses humor to add
entertainment value to the story, but also as a different way of
approaching some very important issues, including ongoing problems in
our inner cities and the use of labels in our society at large. The
film's pedigree certainly contributed to its effectiveness. "Dope" is
produced (and partially narrated by) Forest Whitaker, while Sean Combs
and Pharrell Williams share executive producer credits. It also doesn't
hurt that the movie is so well-written and well-directed by Rick
Famuyiwa ("Brown Sugar", "The Wood") and has a strong, though
little-known cast.

Malcolm and his friends are appealing and sympathetic characters, but
make some morally questionable decisions. While the script makes light
of their circumstances, it also slyly comments on them, but without
suggesting definitive right and wrong answers. This is a coming-of-age
movie that is both enjoyable and thought-provoking. There are a few too
many loose ends for my taste and I found much of the plot to be a
little too morally ambiguous, but this is still one of the best urban
dramas in the past 20 years. To sum up this review, let me suggest some
slightly altered meanings for the film's title: Dope can refer to some
of the movie's main characters, the curse of their neighborhoods or
anyone who won't at least consider seeing the film because of labels
they may have already assigned to it. "B+"
<|_=00=_|>
Grab a coming-of-age film with 3 innocent teens, slap an R (MA15+)
rating on it and you get this very 'dope' film. Dope is easily one of
the most interesting and by far unique films of the last few years. You
go in expecting one thing, and come out of it getting something far
from what you wanted. Usually that would be a bad thing, but this film
was so intelligent and different that you can't help but leave with a
smile on your face. I was expecting some sort of run of the mill
coming-of-age comedy after seeing the trailer, but the film is much
more complex than that, incorporating lots of themes and ideas that
make you think while also keeping up the fun entertainment the whole
way through. It was just a really refreshing thing to see in a world
where most films today are just borrowing from other successful films.
This movie has fantastic performances, an entertaining and fun plot
that takes turns you never expect, and a great visual style that makes
this stand out on its own in the Coming-Of-Age film genre. 

Lets talk about these performances shall we, because these are three
that will most likely get severely overlooked this year but i don't
think it is the last we have heard of some of these actors. Your main
guy Shameik Moore did an incredible job at playing Malcolm, this
teenager who is trying to keep in line with school and college whilst
all of these problems come his way that force him to be someone more
than just the geek. He was great at conveying that this guy really
wants to do good in the world but sometimes things happen that force
you to act against your own instincts. He handled the serious intense
scenes well, he delivered so great on the comedy and has definitely
opened the door on his movie career. The other great performance was
Tony Revolori who was so funny and witty and played his character well.
I loved him in last years 'The Grand Budapest Hotel' so i had no doubt
he would be great in this and he did not disappoint. His character
could very easily been the dopey side character who is only around for
comic relief but he proved to be an integral part of the film. But my
favourite performance had to be by Kiersey Clemons who absolutely
killed it in what is her breakout roll. She brought so much life and
personality not only to her character but also to the film and made it
infinitely more funny and entertaining. I can't wait to see her in more
things because i loved her in this. 

Lets talk about the plot, storytelling and structure of this film
because it was mostly very very well made and told. I have to give a
load of credit to the writers of this film because the plot for this
film did not go in any direction i could've thought of in a million
years. It was so engaging and there was a sense of urgency to the film,
like, you always are wanting to know what will happen next and where
the film is going to take you. Incredible writing that worked really
really well. While i was watching the film i wasn't so thrilled with
the first 15 minutes or so, i felt that it was taking too long to
introduce these characters and showing things that didn't look like
they were leading anywhere. But by the end of the film, everything
about the beginning pays off, you get this very interesting before and
after that incorporates some interesting themes about being yourself
and thats where the film does great at incorporating some positive
messages.

The film got a little patchy at times, where it was kind of dwelling on
one thing when i wanted to move on to see what was going on with
something else, but that was very quick and minor and didn't hurt it
that much. In the end, this film was full of awesome, refreshing ideas
that took the coming-of-age genre i love to new heights. Packed with
comedy, some well used action, as well as incorporating crime and drama
elements, this really was a complete package and is an indie film you
should definitely check out and have a 'dope' ride. - 8.4
<|_=00=_|>
After hearing unending hype for Dope coming out of Sundance, I got
excited to see the movie and see if it justified the high price tag and
big release the movie received.

It didn't.

SPOILERS

I won't recap the plot but the movie didn't work for and not because of
a culture disconnect. For the first 30 minutes, I was with the movie
and there was actual tension that propelled the movie forward, enough
where I thought it could be a crazy fun movie. For example: Malcolm
being told to drop off the dope in the El Camino, then being warned the
guy might kill him. Or Malcolm spending time with Lily and she ends up
taking the dope. There was constantly new obstacles for him and
could've ended up being a crazy After Hours type movie about trying to
offload this drug supply, like Fix. However, the college recruiter who
"coincidently" happened to be the kingpin was A) Awfully convenient for
the plot and B) sucked all of the tension out of the movie. "Let's
reschedule for a few weeks from now." The people chasing him are
caught, there's no stakes left and the whole movie just becomes a bore. 

The rest of this movie becomes one big tutorial on how to open an
online store with a ham-fisted speech at the very end, one criticizing
Harvard and white people for asking a question none of them were
asking. This movie comes right out of the wheelhouse of "Quirky
Sundance Indie" that hits it big every year, a token movie accepted to
show how "progressive" they are and widely distributed to show how
"with it" studios are, even if the movie is a big miss. Sundance may
jizz their pants at it but the whole movie is flaccid.

Oh and that's not even getting into the fact that the movie is too long
and full of annoying "quirky" characters like the wigger stoner and the
Bitcoin purse maker, but I've already wasted enough time on this POS.
<|_=00=_|>
"A movie about nerds who love 90's hip-hop showing up a gangster? Yes,
please!" was my initial reaction to this movie when I saw it on
Netflix. So, last night, I stayed up and watched the movie. And...?
Well, I think there's plenty of enjoyable things in this movie, but
there's also just some dumb stuff that I can't get past that make this
movie a little odd to me. 

First of all, I really like Malcolm. He is an enjoyable lead,
relate-able and is well developed, not to mention that the actor gives
a solid performance. It's easy to care about this character. 

I also really liked the set-up of the movie. It had an interesting idea
and seemed to have a good way of carrying it out. 

Thirdly, I also loved the comedy. There are some legitimately funny
moments in this movie. 

But...... Let's get into the bad. 

This is a bland looking movie. The cinematography is pretty standard,
the set design in lack luster, and, outside of Malcolm's clothing,
nothing really draws your eye to the screen. Just blah.

The side characters. I have no connections to these side characters.
Dicky I only remember because she was a lesbian. That's her only
character trait. The other friend is also bland. He's so bland, I don't
even remember his name. But the WORST was Malcolm's love interest. I
don't remember her name, either. She just seems so self- centered, and
all we know is that she dated this one guy and wants to go to Six
Flags. Not enough to make me invested in her. 

Lastly, the film doesn't know when to end. Seriously. It has, like, 4
different endings. I thought it was over when Malcolm revealed his plan
to a man that screwed him over. The music swelled, and the line was
given a lot of emphasis. But, NOPE! There's another ending where
Malcolm gives a big speech, the music swells, and then there's a line
with a lot of focus on it. Is it over? Nope! Chuck Testa! Then there's
a boring third ending with the a fore mentioned love interest that we
don't care about. There was a fourth ending, and that one is the best.
It just ends with a sort of cliff hanger, and I appreciated that
ending. The first ending and last ending are just fine. But, they just
had too much to cram in and it became too crowded. 

So, this film is pretty funny and mostly enjoyable, but I don't think
I'm going to watch it again any time soon.
