
I really enjoyed this film. It was imaginative, fun and just thoroughly
entertaining throughout the whole time I was watching it. It had some
actually genuine heartwarming moments that didn't feel manufactured
like some other animated films I've seen in recent past. The animation
was also just gorgeous. I really loved the look of the film, I thought
it had a really nice aesthetic style and felt like a classic piece of
animation that if CGI was around in the seventies, it would've looked
like this. All in all, I personally loved this film. If you want
something that's just plain fun, bizarre and imaginative- with a touch
of warmth- I'd say check this flick out. But if you're looking for
something with more of a concrete plot and a straight forward
narrative, you probably won't find that here.
<|_=00=_|>
Thus movie sends a hate message to President Donald Trump. It is also a
comedy Masterpiece that is ready using the photo book in a flashback.

Set in the late 1980's (As flashbacks from the photo book told it),
this original movie is inspired from the 2010 book of the same book
(Which is based on). The lead actor Alac Baldwin plays as the titlelar
role that speaks like an adult and is actually a secret agent for
BabyCorp.

My favorite part is him: When he open the rocket hatch releasing ALL
the Forever Puppies in Las Vegas and eventually saves his brother Tim's
parents.

The ending is very heartwarming and the last part sets in the style for
the most parts of E.T. The Extra Terrestrial. The tail end, eventually,
had the new girl born on the movie's release date of March 31st, 2017.

That is one whole movie that is set the audience to play time after the
movie ends.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand how this movie got so many negative reviews. I went
and saw this yesterday and honestly, its one of the best movies I have
EVER seen. The plot is funny and progresses intently while the
characters develop and come together in common interest. This movie is
absolutely hilarious and also heart warming. I 10/10 recommend this
<|_=00=_|>
I learned something important about children right after my newborn
baby girl came home from the hospital. That first night, she slept
like well, like a baby. My two-year-old cried like one. He was
uncharacteristically restless, up and down all night, while his sister
seemed perfectly content (for that first night anyway). Having a second
child in the home is tough to get used to  especially for the first
child. To that firstborn, it can suddenly seem like absolutely
everything has changed and that the new arrival is now more important
than anything or anyone else. When the new baby suddenly seems to be
getting all the attention and when his or her every cry is answered
immediately and every whim is catered to, that baby can seem to be the
boss. It's that phenomenon, which parents with more than one child know
so well, that formed the basis for a 2010 children's book by American
author/illustrator Marla Frazee, and the animated feature film that the
book inspired, 2017's "The Boss Baby" (PG, 1:37).

Tim (voiced by Miles Bakshi) is a typical 7-year-old. He has an active
imagination, he loves to play with his parents and he's happy. He's
happy with the way everything in his life is. Right now. Today. But
that all changes when his parents (Jimmy Kimmel and Lisa Kudrow) step
out of a taxi cab, enter the family home, and introduce Tim to his
brand new baby brother. Tim quickly feels neglected. For example, his
former bedtime ritual of both of his parents coming to his room to read
him stories, sing him a special song and hug and kiss him goodnight
turns into both of them running up and down the hall towards the baby's
room and then passing out from exhaustion on the livingroom couch. But
not only does Tim resent the new baby, he becomes suspicious of him.
That baby doesn't seem to be acting like a regular baby. Tim thinks the
little tyke isn't who he seems to be. Tim thinks that baby is up to
something, and Tim is absolutely right! He catches his baby brother
talking  talking in complete sentences  on a (toy) telephone! Tim
confronts the baby and the baby answers him! This Boss Baby (voiced by
Alec Baldwin) tells Tim that he's on an undercover mission for Baby
Corp., the company which produces and distributes babies all over the
world. Baby (whose actual name we don't hear until late in the movie)
demands Tim's help, promising that once his job there is done, he'll
leave Tim's house for good. Tim's parents work for Puppy Co, which is
developing a new kind of puppy that will cut into the amount of family
love available to babies more than any previous puppy model before it.
With Tim's help (and the help of other babies  voiced by Conrad
Vernon, Eric Bell Jr., ViviAnn Yee and David Soren  whose parents also
work at the company), Baby plans to infiltrate Puppy Co, find out what
they're working on, and stop the company and their CEO (Steve Buscemi)
from turning any more baby love into puppy love.

"The Boss Baby" is pretty creative and a lot of fun! Screenwriter
Michael McCullers (the scribe of the last two "Austin Powers" movies,
"Baby Mama", "Hotel Transylvania 3" and "Shrek 5") successfully expands
the premise of Frazee's novel to make it worthy of a feature film.
Director Tom McGrath (helmer of the "Madagascar" movies and "Megamind")
makes sure the screen is filled with colorful, imaginative and
enjoyable scenes to propel this childhood adventure to its very
satisfying conclusion. The talented voice cast delivers solid
performances and the computer animation lives up to the high standards
that Movie Fans expect from DreamWorks films. The story is a throwback
to earlier styles of animated kid adventures, reminding me of "Toy
Story" and similar older movies). The result is a film that's mostly
kid-friendly (with just a little coarse language and a bunch of toilet
jokes and shots of baby butts) and may even make parents feel a little
nostalgic for movies from their childhoods. "The Boss Baby" is pretty
boss  and is great fun for the whole family. "A-"
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a seven year old boy, who has very busy
but loving parents. One day, his parents bring home a baby boy. He gets
intensely jealous from sibling rivalry, until he discovers that the
baby can talk and is actually working for a company. 

"The Boss Baby" is a really fun film for the whole family. The baby is
super cute, and everyone will fall in love with the baby in an instant.
The sibling rivalry plot is convincing, then the fantasy kicks in. The
jokes are funny and family friendly. Actually everything about the
film, from the plot to the characters are likable, fun and cute. I was
very entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
Boss Baby is not as introspectively original as Inside Out, as deep as
Up, or as incisive as Wall-E.. BUT it is funny and heartwarming.

Certainly it has a lot more laughs and is more engaging than Zootopia,
which I thought was well-"drawn" and had a decent story, but wasn't
funny at all. I have to wonder if some of its high ratings are due to
all the virtuous "notes" it hits with our society's current emphasis on
social justice issues (not saying it's a bad thing, but I find that
people give themes of diversity a lot of subjective credit that is not
necessarily earned).

BUT I digress.. Boss Baby has plenty of quality laugh-out-loud moments,
and has humor that will appeal to kids and adults alike. There were
also some very tender-hearted moments.. especially the boy's bedtime
routine, it was so touching. Also the babies are way cuter than real
babies (which is probably one reason I liked this film, because I'm not
a big fan of actual babies).
<|_=00=_|>
The Boss Baby is an excellent movie for kids and a great movie for
families too. When I saw the trailer I REALLY wanted to see the movie
and I felt like the happiest person on Earth when I saw it. The movie
has funny characters, babies, and more things that would make anyone
laugh. Most of all, I enjoyed the movie because of the relationships
and jokes. The Boss Baby is sure to make brothers and sisters get
along.
<|_=00=_|>
WAS I Surprised!!! Of course with Alec Baldwin being the voice of the
boss baby I knew I would love it before it even came out, not only was
it what I expected but it was better! Of course it adorable, and all
the silly goofy babies do, it gains your attention with the plot by
making you feel for the characters. At the end I shed tears, truly
heart warming. For my 2year old it's and 10/10 comedy, for myself it's
a 10/10 family drama with deeply created emotions ❤️ I would even say I
enjoyed the story-line much more than moana , my favorite animation of
2017
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Templeton(the voice of Miles Bakshi) was enjoying life as a vivid
imaginative 7 year old boy with his two parents Ted(Voice of Jimmy
Kimmel) and Janice(Voice of Lisa Kudrow), who give him as much love as
a kid could possibly ask for. However, that is until he meets the most
interesting suit wearing boss baby(Voice of Alec Baldwin) brother Tim
ever saw in his life. After a while, he ends up helping the boss baby
go on a mission to end the war between babies and puppies. One of the
things I really liked about this movie is how it had very hilarious
parts to the story, but the film still had equally serious scenes in it
as well. Especially, the scene where Tim and the boss baby are at the
airport, and the baby says, "I can't do this without you Tim". Tim
replies, "Yeah, we make a pretty good team". I also, really liked the
message of the story. "Love, comes in different shapes and sizes, but
"There is plenty of it go around". I had nothing negative to say about
The Boss Baby. I definitely recommend everyone to see it. The movie has
action, love, and overall great humor in the film as well. The Boss
Baby is rated PG for mild crude humor, and a movie anybody, any age
will enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Overall it is a miss. I suppose that is a little unfair of me to say. I
should say the film is overrated. It does have some laughs. But I
wouldn't recommend this as heavily as other animated feature films. The
villain is lacking, the story is predictable, half the time the jokes
fall flat and the script is meh. They should have had the baby stay a
boss type and etc. Why turn a script into a plot for the Avengers when
you don't have to do that? Whatever, I'm over it. Six out of ten kind
of deal.
