
I saw this Premiere at Sundance 2015. This is what a Sundance film
should be. You start watching at a distance. The subject matter of
prostitutes, pimps, drugs, sex, homosexuality and gender roles is
foreign to most and even repulsive to some. But that's the beauty. It
draws you in...you start to care about the characters, you start to
laugh with them. You then admire their pluck. You feel their
frustration, sadness and even shame. Then you identify with it. Then,
eventually, you admire it. Finally, what you see are human beings with
the same, or even better, values that you have. The music is cutting
edge street sound that propels you along the LA sidewalks and, combined
with the colors of the film (i.e. tangerine), it pulls you into the
brash and jolting life on some of the worse streets of LA. The power of
the film is that, in powerful ways, that street community seems a
better home than you have in safe suburbia. This is what indie film
should be.....it takes a different subject matter, perhaps something
disturbing, draws you in and changes the way you view the world.
Forever. Not just during the course of a film festival.

Even better, this film was shot entirely on three iPhone 5s. At the
Premiere, the audience audibly gasped when this fact rolled on screen
during the credits. Another thing an indie film should do...change the
way you look at how films can be made. (I'm actually going to try to
make a film this summer...seriously).

This film should have won the Sundance NEXT award....and probably would
have if it was not by audience vote. This is not mainstream..it is an
independent film. This film will change your life.

P.S. Both female leads were powerful and legitimate, in every sense of
that word. But Kiki Kitana Rodriguez has screen presence and karma
enough to fill Dodger Stadium one hundred times over. I could watch her
for yours, and hope we all have a chance to do so again.
<|_=00=_|>
Right up front let me tell you this is not an easy film to watch. It is
vulgar, raw, painful and shocking at times. It is, however, going to
stand for some time as this generation's example of how to write a
story, tell a story, and create characters that are not only
believable, but memorable. Tangerine, the gift we get on Christmas in
America, is a story about people who live in constant chaos, in an
unsafe and harsh America where not everyone get's sterling silver from
the man in the North pole. It is a visually stunning achievement and
reminds us that those of us who make art are first and foremost
storytellers. Bravo to those who were brave enough to produce, act in
and make this story come to our movie screens. Watch out Hollywood, the
next generation of artists making movies has arrived.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. It's hard to imagine a better choice
for opening night of the 4th annual Oak Cliff Film Festival. After all,
this year's theme is the "No Wave Movement" of the late 1970's, and
writer/director Sean Baker's most recent film (and a Sundance favorite)
is the perfect complement. Co-written with Chris Bergoch and filmed
entirely on iPhone 5s' (with cinematic apps), this gritty, no-frills
film spotlights real problems of real people on a real day  on the
real streets of Hollywood and Los Angeles.

Personally, I haven't seen many (ok, any) films that focus on two
transgender prostitutes (both, persons of color). However, the exciting
thing is that the story pays little attention to the vocation of
Sin-Dee and Alexandra, and is more a story of friendship, heartbreak,
and the sub-cultures that make up a particular community of the L.A.
area. This is not the glitzy/celebrity side of Hollywood, but rather
the underbelly of a melting pot city where the paths of transgender
streetwalkers and Armenian cab drivers intersect.

Sin-Dee (Kiki Kitana Rodriguez) and Alexandra (Mya Taylor) are opposite
personality types, but clearly good friends as they chat while
splitting a donut in the opening scene. We quickly learn that Sin-Dee
is fresh out of jail after serving 28 days, and she doesn't react well
to Alexandra's news that their pimp (and Sin-Dee's boyfriend) Chester
(James Ransone) has been cheating with a "natural" woman (played by a
very talented Mickey O'Hagan) while she was incarcerated. A woman
scorned provides the energy of the film as Sin-Dee tracks down this
mysterious girl whose name starts with a "D". It also provides new
meaning for dragging someone all over town (kudos to Ms O'Hagan for the
physicality and bruises).

The sassy banter is filled with brutal put-downs and smart-ass
comebacks, as the three actresses play off each other as if loaded with
short-fused fireworks. The story with taxi driver Razmik (Karren
Karagulian) shows a family man drawn like a magnet to the world of
Sin-Dee and Alexandra  he even finds a reason to skip out on Christmas
Eve dinner with his family. His mother-in-law Ashken (Alla Tumanian) is
most suspicious of his activities, and that leads to the frenetic and
hilarious confrontation at Donut Time.

Many individual scenes are funny, while others are tension-filled.
There is even a scene in Razmik's cab featuring veteran actor Clu
Gulager ("The Virginian"), and Armenian celebrity Arsen Grigoryan plays
another taxi driver. The acting throughout is strong and humanistic,
and the iPhone photography is shocking in its depth and range  we
would never suspect the "equipment" being used. This approach allowed
for the organic feel of the street  think of Banksy making a movie 
clandestine with no sets (or permits). Baker's style is reminiscent of
John Waters and John Cassavetes, and that's quite a compliment. The
film also features the pitch perfect description of Los Angeles: "a
beautifully wrapped lie".
<|_=00=_|>
Glad to see the theater packed for this one. The way it was shot feels
like a documentary, but the raw subject matter and unpolished acting
were in-your-face in the best ways. There's no time to judge these
fast-moving, trans-gendered prostitutes, and why would you?
Everything's f***ed up. Family people are not what they seem,
everyone's motivations are unique, people are desperate for acceptance,
affection and enough money to make it to the next day. They play the
hands they're dealt, like all of us, spinning around and around, trying
to get answers and making stupid mistakes along the way. In the end,
it's still a friendship movie, not a package with a shiny, redeeming
bow. Sick of safe, sanitized, statistical NPR? Here's your movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Aside from being a thoroughly enjoyable film, "Tangerine" has the
remarkable distinction of being shot entirely on an iPhone 5S. How such
a feat was accomplished is beyond me for while it does appear to be a
low budget piece it looks fantastic. Furthermore, maybe because of the
unique film techniques, it feels very real, like you were just tagging
along for the duration.

The story takes place over the course of about 12 hours, following the
lives of two transgender prostitutes on Christmas Eve. Sin-dee has just
been released from jail, and her best friend Alexandra lets slip that
her boyfriend/pimp picked up with another women while she was away.
This sets Sin-dee off on a rampage as she scours the L.A. streets
looking for the new girl and her cheating man. The story weaves from
Sin-dee's quest, to Alexandra picking up a few tricks throughout the
day, and subtly follows a cab driver who has a thing for Sin-dee, while
his family works out his proclivities. Through all of this, the film is
not condescending, preachy, or insensitive to anyone. It is brutally
honest, hilarious at times, realistic, even touching and sad.

I loved this movie. From the colorful characters to the perfect pacing
to the creative cinematography, "Tangerine" is one film every lover of
cinema should watch at least once. Oh, and a super soundtrack! I hope
to add it to the collection one day.
<|_=00=_|>
My friend put me on to this, with no mention at all of what it was
about... so totally unexpected. What I really liked about Tangerine is
that it didn't pull its punches. None of the main characters are 100%
hero or villain... everyone is sad/funny/cruel/kind at some point. I
can't say I'd want to hang out with ANYONE in this movie... but they're
all presented as complex characters, people, which is great.

I can see why John Waters liked it, it does remind me a bit of his
earlier films with their various crazed characters in crazed worlds...
though Tangerine feels much more real and gritty than any of those
Waters films, which were heavy with fantasy.

Anyway, it's excellent... I hope it garners a huge following and we
start getting more films like this and less superhero trash.
<|_=00=_|>
A fabulous character study, gritty slice of life, walk on the wild side
comedy . . . any variety of possible descriptions come to mind.

But no matter how one tries to frame this uniquely crafted work,
despite its very low production budget (this entire movie was filmed
with iPhones?), it's still surprisingly entertaining.

I could try to encapsulate the drama (and yes, drama, as in on the
street, way over the edge drama) between the two main characters, and
the meandering ill fated adventures that sprout up along the way, but
actually, better that you simply watch and experience for yourself.

No spoilers, not even a hint . . . but what I will suggest here, the
time spent to watch this will not be wasted.

Kudos to a very clever bit of street drama compressed into a simple but
engaging journey into and through a collection of lives that are all
too real out in certain sections of town, which in this case happens to
be West Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
Apart from a pretty decent and modern soundtrack, there is very little
to like about this film. The film has a plot and content that would
make any Sundance film-festival fan drool at how "edgy" and "raw" it
is. It's got hookers, drugs, and Hollywood sleaze (because who knew
that Hollywood could be so decadent?). The characters are neither funny
nor interesting. They are, however, played by quite talented actors who
are actually themselves trans-gender. I'am so totally bemused as to why
this film is so well acclaimed. If it is only acclaimed because of
having play trans-gender people play trans-gender people and for some
reason that makes the film automatically good, then I must say, the bar
is being set considerably low.
<|_=00=_|>
The film has one single credible performance - that of Mya Taylor, who
has to carry the film despite not being the central figure. The
remainder of the cast runs the gamut from "not great" (pretty much
everyone, frankly) to "painful-to-watch" (Kitana Kiki Rodriquez as
Sin-Dee). It varies wildly in tone, lurching from comedy to drama to
melodrama to camp - often within the same scene. I left wondering what
the point of the film was, other than to embarrass all those involved
(as well as the audience). There are several sub-plots in the film,
only one of which is handled very well. Two others are insufficiently
fleshed-out/resolved, so that it all seems like much ado about very
little, indeed. As a cautionary tale about "how not to make a film,"
this piece is a success. But otherwise...take a pass. I stayed until
the end, despite wanting to leave for pretty much the entire film. I
wish I had followed my instincts.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not so concerned with "high-concept" in motion picture as in the
execution of it. So much hype surrounded this film. Long-standing indie
journalists and industry professionals urged me to see it. I tried. I
realize that we're talking about hotbed issues. Well, controversy may
be enough to sell a movie, but it isn't enough to make it great, or
even good. The movie felt amateurish. The acting was so bad that I
found it unwatchable. David Lynch is correct. Here is an example of how
the motion industry has effectively destroyed itself. The emperor isn't
wearing any clothes. Renaissance is needed.
