
I have to start by saying the first film was my favourite film of the
last few years and I'm a huge fan.

But let's be honest, this was a huuuge let down of a sequel after an
amazing first film. The first had a good story, fleshed out characters,
believable villains, genuine affection, drama, tension and a soundtrack
that was original and used brilliantly.

This film had a weak, bloated story. Almost every scene filled with
forced, cheap gags. Unbelievable and disappointing bad guys who tried
to wise crack their through and lost any menace. Acting was poor apart
from Yondu and Nebula who was woefully underused.

This was was like a comedy parody of the first film. A goofy, TV sequel
that had none of the magic of the original blockbuster.

At one point Drax wisecracks that he does big turds. I'd venture none
as big as this one.

Avoid
<|_=00=_|>
With so much talent in this film, it's so disappointing that the
writers were right . Don't waste a dime on developing a sensible plot
because the hordes of fans will eat this crap up like it was a 5 star
meal. Hence the 8.1 star rating which reflects a demographic with time
on their hands and a studio with plenty of marketing budget.

On the bright side - the CGI is great. The sets are beautiful. There
are some very funny moments. The cast still has some chemistry with
each other. And I've seen movies that were much worse and unwatchable
than this one. But I wouldn't be honest if I didn't give this a very
generous 5 because of the horrendous, deficient plot. And after this
film I'd have to say that I've about had enough with this series. We've
heard the story, had some fun with the characters and it's clear that
what was fun, fresh and original is what it should have been - a one
film wonder leaving Hollywood to develop another story. 

Without giving away the big reveal or true spoilers, I'll explain the
problem that are evident throughout the entire film:

(1) Repeated jokes as if we're supposed to be warmed to it, e.g. how
dumb and oblivious baby Groot is (except when he needs not to be.)
Funny at the opening moment and gets more difficult to stomach as we
make our way through.

(2) The fact that our heroes are never really in danger. They are
always somehow able to avoid dangers of the most extreme kind for
prolonged periods while they joke during the encounter and then you
know they will be saved by some unknown force to be named shortly.

(3) The abject stupidity of supremely smart characters. Because we need
those whose level of intelligence is off the charts to continue to do
some really stupid or missing the obvious for a prolonged period of
time but just enough for our heroes to have the time to do something to
save themselves and the galaxy from certain destruction.

(4) The explanation of the villain's plan made absolutely no sense. It
was the usual pseudo-brilliant but amorphous hogwash that only made
sense when you were 5 years old in the world of make believe without
having to think about whether there was any logic.

(5) Occasional product placement. Fedex anyone? It's one thing to have
a "special moment" and another to believe we're too stupid to
understand why it happened. And then there is Baby Groot who exists and
will continue to exist solely for merchandising... Too cute to kill
off. ;)
<|_=00=_|>
As someone who was floored by the first film, I was eager to see how
the second installment in Gunn's trilogy(yes, it's a trilogy now) would
pan out. To be honest, I was a bit anxious, as we are familiar with
Hollywoods track record when it comes to sequels. However there are
rare moments when the sequel lives up to it's predecessor. As is the
case here, as Gunn delivers the same charm, humor and emotion as the
first film. The big difference is the focus on Peter's story, As our
heroin meets his long lost father Ego(brilliantly played by Kurt
Russell), who shows up at the knick of time, as Rocket pisses off
Ayesha(Elizabeth Debicki) who sends a space armada after them. To add
the cherry on top of this pie is the soundtrack(Sam Cooke's Bring it on
Home to Me), that was meticulously chosen. If you were a fan of the
first, don't doubt, Gunn delivers a space opera that lives up to it's
hype. I have high hopes for the future of the MCU, it's clear that the
studio let Gunn's creativity speak for itself and boy did he have a lot
to say.
<|_=00=_|>
At the time of writing, there are only 7 out of 120 user reviewers that
did not like the movie. I know I will receive a multitude of unhelpful
votes for voicing my honest feedback about this movie. However, I hope
that my feedback will be helpful for people who are able to judge a
film in an objective manner so that they, at least, will be able to
save their hard earned cash.

Firstly, the main antagonist is a Marvel character that has been
completely changed for this movie. It bears no background similarity to
the character in the comics whatsoever. I understand that the Marvel
movies are all about making a spin on the comic book story arcs, but
this difference was far too large for me to accept.

Whilst watching the movie, I had to ponder whether I had stepped into a
Marvel Superhero version of "Fast and Furious". There was a continuous
message that family is important and how the protagonists became who
they were due to disenfranchised childhoods. Whilst this is a valid
point, I do not feel that it belongs in a superhero action movie as it
serves no purpose. Worse was when the message contradicted itself when
we see Peter Quill betrayed by his Father. The clumsiness of this
contradiction did nothing to alleviate the sickly sweet message that
the movie was trying to convey. I get that James Gunn is trying to send
out a message to the younger generation but I would think that kids go
to watch a superhero movie for the action, and will not really
appreciate or acknowledge the message that he is driving.

Unlike the first movie, there was a distinct lack of character focus
and their abilities. It could easily have been an action movie without
superheroes. In fact, the movie seemed to be focused on two characters
when it came to showcasing their abilities. One of these had a sequence
that was inspired by the Quicksilver scenes in the X-Men movies. The
other was extremely underwhelming and was defeated far too incredibly
when you consider the differences in age and experiences. None of the
characters were interesting with the exception of Nebula and Mantis.
However, Pom Klementieff played her role like a stuttering female
cyborg that I even thought the role was played by an East Asian actress
before I checked the cast members. The actors paid to play the new
characters were miscast in my opinion. Sylvester Stallone's performance
reminded me of his Judge Dredd and not in a good way.

It was clear that the popular factors in the first movie were taken and
overdone in the second movie. Drax was made to look like a dumb fool
once again but even more than in the first movie. While the CGI effects
were good, the cuteness factor of Baby Groot served only to market the
movie to kids and geek girls, and to rake in merchandise profit. There
was also constant mention and focus on the cassette mix which was
totally unnecessary (again, for merchandise promotion).

With the exception of Captain America and the first two Avengers and
Thor movies, why do the Marvel movies have to be over-saturated with
humor? It's one thing to market the movies to a wider audience but it's
totally another thing when it's taken too far, and the humor becomes so
clich√©d.
<|_=00=_|>
***Potential Spoilers***

+Visuals were okay but not that great at some point it kinda looked
animated 

+Acting was perfect 

-but the plot was Horrible 

-Some of the comedy sequences felt Forced

-Villian was underwhelming 

-Overacting -Pacing issues

Marvel overused their formula in this one & it just felt Choppy &
bloated there are jokes but by jokes i mean there are too many if you
are fan of Forced ripoff jokes then this movie is for you there wasn't
even much action You have a guy name Drax the Destroyer but you given
him only one Action sequence Come'on **Spoilers* Nebula tries to kills
herself to kill Gamora, and later on both of them forgive each other ?
It just felt messy 

The only thing i learned from GOTG 2 is that never go with high
expectation while seeing a movie
<|_=00=_|>
The most astonishing thing about this movie to me is how fast I forgot
the entire experience.

I kinda remember that cool opening scene with Groot - but after that?
Guardians of the Galaxy 2 moves from one action scene to the next with
a bunch of random banter about an extended family... which is
completely contradicted in the final 15 minutes.

I also remember a bunch of absurd happenings during the action scenes.
Improbable results, luck, weird environments that do not follow any
known physics and characters screaming at one another over the ambient
sound.

To paraphrase someones wisdom - the script wasn't the result of time,
hard work, skill and craftsmanship. Things happen on the screen because
the screen writers say so. This is what many superhero films have
become: glorified CG cartoons that feel like really long TV episodes.

Ironic too - in an age of great TV writing, many blockbuster movies
have been reduced to mass world wide appeal instead of any unique
writer/director vision.

I really didn't like this movie 3/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a very fun superhero film. It did not provide us with
very heavy storyline, the premise was quite simple and best of it all,
it was having lots and lots of funny moments. My wife and I truly
enjoyed this movie as we had laughs all over the movie and there were
even some emotional moments as well which was very lovely to see at the
end (and made my wife very emotional). I love the chemistry among the
Guardians, and I loved Baby Groot's very cute and adorable behavior. I
also loved the opening scene which I think was very cool.

In addition to the good chemistry among the stars, I also felt that
Mantis' character was fun to see, especially whenever she was
interacting with Drax. In this sequel, it was also surprising to see
Drax' very funny characterization and his comments. Both Yondu and
Nebula also had larger important role in this movie compared to Volume
1. There was even a surprise new character played by Sylvester Stallone
whom I understand would be having larger role in future Marvel movies.

Apart from those fun interactions and the nice light story, the movie
itself was not the type of full of action scenes. Mostly it was done in
the early stage, middle part and the ending part. The sound effects
were good, the effects involving Baby Groot and Rocket were awesome,
but I felt the CGI effects were not that nice, especially during the
scenes in the Ego planet where it really looked computerized. However,
it was not really a bothering scene. One thing that was quite curious
for me is the trailer to this movie was already showing Kurt Russel
portraying Peter's father, which I thought would be best kept hidden to
avoid spoiler. But then as we continued watching it, I realized that it
was more like a part that was supposed to intrigue us.

I personally felt that this movie was better than Volume 1, in term of
the story and characterizations. And for those of you who knew that
Marvel's movies would have some end credit scenes, better wait till the
very end, since this film had got not 1, not 2 not even 3, but 5 post
credit scenes altogether.

So if you enjoyed the first volume, you would enjoy this one even
better. I would recommend you to watch the first one before seeing this
one to have a better understanding on the movie. Though I am pretty
sure that most likely you would have seen it. Now if you are a fan of a
much heavier superhero movie, than this one may not suit your thirst,
but I am confident that you would still be entertained watching this
one.
<|_=00=_|>
What's Hollywood's obsession with family these days? Wonder if it has
to do the the growing culture of nepotism elsewhere. Regardless, a
script cannot rely on simply yelling "FAMILY" as the motivation for
EVERYTHING. And this movie works that clich√© to DEATH. *LITERALLY*

Not worth a 1/10, more like a 6 plus (which I'll adjust when they stop
manipulating the ratings. Forgettable at best, and you know the story
is crap when all you can remember is CGI baby Groot. Suffers terribly
from Bond villain syndrome, in that villains needs too much exposition
(AKA weird and unexplained motivations).

Actual line in the movie, after one character tries to murder another,
"You needed to win, I just wanted a *RELATIVE*." *slow claps* that
TOTALLY explains attempted murder. Did I mention there's attempted
genocide too?! For reasons that only Gunn will know.
<|_=00=_|>
*SPOILER FREE REVIEW*

As a huge fan of the first film, I went to watch the movie as soon as
it came out. And I have to say I wasn't disappointed at all.

Guardians Of The Galaxy Vol.2 Offers so much thrills and an awesome
cinematic experience, The action starts right from the opening scene
and it doesn't end until the last 2 seconds of the film. The people
behind the movie just knew how to not make the audience bored, and they
succeeded at that.

I have to say that 3D ticket here is worth the additional price,
because honestly, if any movie deserved to be really watched in 3D it's
this one,It adds so much depth to the scenes and makes the movie alive.

The plot is interesting enough to keep you engaged and the pacing never
really drags even with the movie's long duration.

The soundtrack just fits right into its place and it really helped the
background quality, providing the best classic songs. The movie is also
really humorous and I found it as funny as the first.

Due to the movie's high budget, the scenery is Amazing! The movie feels
like a very entertaining roller coaster, it was a joy and all the crowd
were very pleased.

In the end, Guardians Of The Galaxy Vol.2 Is a MUST-SEE for fans of the
first one and a VERY ENJOYABLE ride for everyone else. It's simply one
of these movies that are always fun to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched the first movie I believe at least 50 times, one of my
favourite movie since the last 10 years; however this Vol. 2 really
disappointed me. I think it's a goofy movie for kids, a bit different
from the first one. The "funny" scenes have been dramatized too much,
so much that they became stupid jokes. The movie itself is too long, no
funny movie should ever be so long. You cannot keep people laughing for
more than 2 hours...even if the movie was a REALLY funny movie (which
it was not). I was expecting coming out this Vol. 2 for so long...I
guess I created too many expectations for it. Go to watch the movie
thinking that would be "just OK", my 2 cents.
