
Honestly Universal should be paying me for the amount of hype i've
created for this film among my friends and their friends. I was without
a doubt super excited for Krampus for two reasons. Firstly it's a
horror film that isn't from Blumhouse, honestly with every horror film
these days being "from the producers of Paranormal activity, Insidious
and The Purge" I was starting to think Jason Blum made a pact with the
devil to produce all mainstream horror films. Secondly this was the
kind of film I hadn't seen in ages, something along the lines of
Gremlins but more horror focused was what I've been wanting for a long
time. So after seeing Krampus I was not disappointed at all. Was it a
horror masterpiece on par with The Exorcist? No it wasn't but thats not
at all what I wanted. I wanted a fun imaginative horror film and one
that finally does justice to the long overlooked legend of Krampus. The
idea of a Christmas horror film is nothing new but all the well known
ones (Black Christmas, Silent Night Deadly Night) are always slasher
films with human villains when Christmas had it's own traditional
villain with Krampus why has it taken so long to bring him to the big
screen?

But anyway Krampus is unlike any film i've really seen before it's both
lighthearted and funny but also surprisingly horrifying. I mean it when
I say there's some nightmare fuel in this film even if i didn't find it
that scary It is still in my opinion a legitimate horror. The Visit
proved to me that horror and comedy can mix well. When a horror film is
100% serious thats OK as long as it's warranted. When a horror film
takes itself too seriously though it can make it a boring watch. A
great comparison is A Nightmare On Elm Street from 1984 and it's remake
in 2010 the remake was largely panned because it was too serious while
dealing with some ridiculous subject matter whereas the original made
it into some morbid humour which worked much better. Krampus does the
same although it is obviously more of a comedy than Elm Street. 

Krampus himself looks fantastic being made entirely of practical
effects and carries a great presence in may opinion he is a classic
horror villain in the making. Of course he isn't alone and is
accompanied by demonic toys and wicked elves who's sadistic and playful
nature makes for some truly horrifying visuals. Oddly enough though
this is still a Christmas movie and does manage to bring me those warm
holiday feelings. I think this film in it's own right will hold a
special place in my heart as a holiday movie with a wickedly twisted
side that I just loved so much. 

In conclusion Krampus won't win Oscars but I think if you go in wanting
to have fun and experience some scares along the way you'll be more
than satisfied. Krampus is one hell of a Christmas gift.
<|_=00=_|>
Since no one written a review its on me i guess.

I really Enjoyed the Movie so sorry if i don't really have much
negative to say.

The Good: 

-Scary scenes are actually scary. (suspence build up pretty well, i
liked seeing the "Monster" which I usually dislike in other Horror
Movies) 

-Krampus is pretty accurate. (And Scary) 

-Additions to the old myth are either working well or are too funny to
not include. 

-Brings the world closer to the real old Christmas we "enjoy" in
central Europe. 

-Funny half of the movie working well. 

-Scary half works perfectly fine. 

-Overall pretty good contrast to the rest of the commercial holiday.

The Bad: 

-Maybe a little slow on the start. 

-Maybe overall a bit too harsh for some viewers. (but no blood or
overuse of the F Word, but still pretty scary but the closer the end
the more serious it gets with less comedy)

The cinema was pretty much enjoying it some people hated it i guess.
But i felt it was quite good and had a good evening.

I would say overall if i wanted to watch Krampus in the very beginning,
which i didn't intend to, i would be happy with the actual Movie.

It Keeps its Promises and does very well what it intends to do. Don't
expect something like Tucker and Dale, Shawn of the Dead or Braindead
more a mix of Jeepers Kreepers and and regular Christmas Comedy, but
does this much better. (i disliked jeepers creepers and all this
Christmas comedy but liked this)
<|_=00=_|>
I first heard of the story of Krampus from a Christmas episode of
American Dad!, and I've been surprised that none of the reviews I
watched online for this film mentioned that since it's the one of the
only times Krampus is mentioned in pop culture. Perhaps now that this
movie is out, we will hear more about him. I sure hope so, because this
is the perfect Christmas tale for the kids and families out there. It's
a story that we could all benefit from, in fact.

The film starts out by showing us the insanity that we all know as
Christmas shopping. It's all about how materialism and family strife
can wreak havoc on our emotions during holidays. The problems all
trickle down to the children, who should really be enjoying and
celebrating the season instead of getting caught up in the stress the
adult deal with. So, our main character rips up his letter to Santa,
and wishes for all of this to be over with. 

Krampus, being the evil side of Christmas, grants the wish. The
characters are slowly plunged into a horror story. Their Christmas
story becomes a story of survival. Will they be able to get along for
the sake of surviving Christmas? 

There were only a few things that I really had a problem with. That's
why it gets an 8 instead of a 9 or 10. The first reason comes from the
fact that I am a serious horror fan, and felt disappointed at the lack
of blood and gore in the film. That reason may keep some genre fans
away, but also makes the film more accessible to the kid and family
audience, whom the film is really for. The other problem I had with the
film was with the editing during the scenes with Krampus' helpers,
because it was quite jumpy and made it hard to see everything going on
the entire time.

Again, this is a good movie. I highly recommend it as one of the best
new family Christmas movies. Krampus is exactly what we need to balance
out the holiday. This will definitely be remembered as more than just
another holiday themed horror movie. It will, hopefully, become a
staple for Christmas viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
As a frequent cinema goer I can appreciate when a filmmaker tries
something new. I like it when a movie takes a risk. But it is called a
risk for a reason. Michael Dougherty took some risks with Krampus and
while I admire the effort, I didn't care for the resulting product.

Krampus is that movie that tries just a little too hard. Everything
feels forced. The comedy. The "scary" moments. This movie desperately
wants to be this generation's Gremlins and it isn't. Not by a long
shot.

This movie is not without its positives. The actors in this movie do a
very good job and I was very close to caring about their characters'
fates. But the good acting is wasted on the movie thanks to its clich√©d
dialogue. And the exception of this would be Conchatta Farrell. She
plays the same loud, brash, sarcastic old broad that she annoyed us
with for years on Two and a Half Men. I can't help but think that a
better actress who could play the type of character they were aiming
for, like a Kathy Bates, would have made the character more sympathetic
and the movie a little better.

The biggest problem with this movie is it doesn't ever really decide if
it's a horror or a comedy. It gets more serious at the end as horror
comedies naturally do but by that time you really don't care about
these characters. It was a horror movie that didn't make you root for
the bad guy per se, but man was I waiting for everyone to die. There
are scenes where these people are getting attacked by their toys (yeah,
I know. Stupid.) and you can't tell if you're supposed to laugh or be
terrified. I laughed at how unterrifying the creatures were but I'm
sure that wasn't the filmmaker's intent.

And as for the creatures, once again I appreciate the deviation from
the norm and using practical effects, but they are really cheesy and
look too puppet-y. First off, we see some toys come to life and attack
the family. Sounds like a real scary Christmas scenario. But the toys
that come to life are a jack in the box; something that hasn't been
under a Christmas tree in about 50 years, a porcelain doll that
wouldn't be a suitable gift for ANY of the female characters, and an
obviously CGI killer teddy bear. But my biggest complaint is the actual
Krampus creature itself. The movie shows you flashes of the villain and
even got me excited to see what this thing looks like. Then when they
show the Krampus it looks like a prop from a local theater production.
At that point, I wish they had never shown him, the mystery would have
been way better.

The movie's story is just flat out inconsistent. For a good while you
forget about the Krampus completely because of the endless attacks from
his minions. You never get any kind of explanation as to where everyone
else in this town went to. The grandma character was most frustrating.
They used the very annoying foreign language ploy to get more dialogue
on the page. As in the character says something in a foreign language,
another character asks what they said and yet ANOTHER character
translates. See how I just wasted three sentences to explain something
that could have been done with one? Yeah, THAT annoying. She also
happens to be the living exposition machine. Why is this happening?
Grandma will explain after the fact when saying this earlier might have
saved a person's life but whatever, I guess. And at the end they kill
off about 4 or 5 characters within a matter of seconds. It's as if they
realized they had too many survivors at the end and just sloppily had
the creature take them out.

The most disappointing aspect of the film is its comedy, or lack
thereof. I know how subjective comedy is but you see every joke coming
from a mile away like you do this film's jump scares. Maybe it's the
Conchatta Farrell thing bothering me still but the jokes feel like they
were written by the staff of Two and a Half Men. It's just set up,
break, punchline, repeat. They never take advantage of any physical
comedy that could come out from a story like this.

Overall, you could see that everyone really tried on this movie but the
execution left so much to be desired. I wouldn't recommend seeing this
in a theater simply from a financial standpoint. If you're still
curious about this one by the time it gets to disc, go ahead and rent
it if only to feed your curiosity. No offense but if you're a teenager
you might really enjoy this one. I saw plenty of teens enjoying this
one and laughing at the jokes I groaned over. So who knows? Maybe I'm
just too old for this one.

4 out of 10 stars
<|_=00=_|>
Plot: A boy who has a bad Christmas ends up accidentally summoning a
Christmas demon to his family home.

This was a fun movie to watch, the kind of film I've been wanting to
see done with much love and respect to the fans of the genre. Each of
the cast does a good job portraying their characters even if the
characters are not the friendliest people in the world. The practical
effects are terrific and are a huge relief from all the CGI these days.
Even though I don't hate CGI, a lot of filmmakers tend to overuse it
these days. This film only used CGI when necessary which is something
that most filmmakers should learn.

I only have 2 problems hence why I gave this an 8 and that is the
ending is kind of weak and not every joke worked for me, but that's it.
This film is a really good throwback to the 80s with a really good
cast, script, story and great practical effects. Please go see this,
these type of films need to be made nowadays, not reboots of movies and
TV shows.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow! Now this is a Horror cult classic! I haven't seen a movie like
this in years! It was certainly a great surprise! While people compare
this movie to Gremlins I guarantee you it is nothing like Gremlins.
This movie is its own movie! The acting was top notch, even when there
were elements of cheesiness that occurred they all managed to keep it
great! The director also did "Trick Or Treat" which is another
Halloween cult classic. But Krampus surpasses "Trick Or Treat" by a
long shot. The story was good, and it keeps you really glued to the
screen wandering what will happen next. There are also many scenes that
are hilarious. Most of the humour came from Aunt Dorothy. 

Many people online will complain that the characters/actors were too
unbelievable and so unlikeable. This is the whole point of the movie.
This is a story of a broken with family with no love, no respect and no
desire to love Christmas. And then Krampus comes to town! 

The Practical Effects were used so well. I like the fact there was no
CGI used for this movie (with the exception of the Ginger Bread Men).
It's kept old school, and it never fails to amaze us. 

Without spoiling anything...the story does start out quite slow. But as
soon as the blizzard hits...you know you're in for the roller-coaster
ride. Kramous's minions are awesome and scary, to say the least! When
Krampus's appears his face will give you nightmares! The ending was
very original and very unexpected. I really hope this becomes a movie
(like Home Alone) that comes on TV every year for all of us to
appreciate the spirit of Christmas! All in all, it is a cult classic
and it was quite a surprise on how good it was. Had no idea this would
be a movie I would love so much. Really highly recommended! 4.5/5
stars. -Autistic Jay
<|_=00=_|>
The Cinematic Mind reviews Krampus (Dougherty, USA, 2015) ****/*****

A few days before Christmas, we meet a dysfunctional family who are not
getting on very well. A young boy (Emjay Anthony) loses the hope and
spirit of Christmas because the holidays aren't the same as they used
to be with his family and proceeds to destroys a letter he wrote to
Santa Claus triggering the release of a massive blizzard and the
summoning of the titular Christmas folklore demon who strikes against
the family and it isn't alone.

From 2007's Trick 'r Treat director and screenwriter Michael Dougherty,
this is the second holiday themed horror film he has done. This sub-
genre is known as the X-MAS Horror! For me, they are very mixed-bag for
me! My favourite would easily be Black Christmas (1974) in my life as
one of cinema's most underrated slashers of the 1970's with one of the
most bone chilling endings in a horror film and Gremlins, enough said.
Others include The Nightmare Before Christmas, Christmas Evil and
Silent Night Deadly Night (I consider it a little overrated). The
potential is huge but also can be a task to handle. However, this is
movie besides Rare Exports: A Christmas Tale are the greatest modern
X-MAS horror films of recent times considering I was making fun of the
title alone and thought it would be TV movie quality. The results
altered once the film began.

The setup is a brilliant throwback to the stereotypical mean-spirited
family from Christmas Vacation and Home Alone and a great satire on
consumerism taking over the holidays with a riot at a Shopping Mall
with "It's Beginning To Look A Lot Like Christmas" by Bing Crosby in
the background. Ahh! The lost of being vintage and nostalgic. I call
glorious irony.

The acting is surprisingly strong. Adam Scott as the classic
overworking father, Toni Collette as the anguish wife and David
Koechner as the overbearing mean spirited uncle who provide great
conflict in a dysfunctional nightmare at each other. Even the child
performances not once cringe me at all! Once the characters start to
realise what the following events are taking place and coming to learn
lessons about the actual meaning of Christmas, I quote I dropped in
awe. A celebration gift to all the memorable horror films and Christmas
horror films of the 80's/90's.

From Gremlins, The Evil Dead to Poltergeist, Nightmare Before Christmas
and one of my favourite scenes, a homage to Rankin/Bass with a
back-story of Krampus presented in animation. The comedy is hilariously
quotable. Mainly from the cynical drunk great aunt played by Conchata
Ferrell. However, it never ruins the thrills of the suspense and
creativity of the creatures the film thrown at us. For my universal
acclaim, the production design, the music score by composer Douglas
Pipes and the practical effects of Krampus and the minions brings to
life the dark corners of Christmas in a way I wanted to experience.
From the vintage jingles to the chilling suspense pieces. This is an
example of me wanting to check out the art of Krampus and resulting in
myself in collapsing all over the designs. They took the budget of $15
million and the crew carry out this stimulating picture given on what
they had on their shoulders.

However, why do I did prefer Trick 'r Treat still more? Simple! The
execution wasn't fully there. Krampus felt underused at times! When
Krampus is in it, my mind is blown away in excitement, I wanted to
discover the hellish nightmare of Krampus. There might had been a
little too much of the minion/toys more than Krampus. There needed to
be more set pieces with the character without this disjointed middle.
Also, the ending nearly irritated me as it nearly involved one of my
most hated cliques in horror history until the rest of the ending
happened, it at least never destroyed the ending with the message of
the film and what it turns out to be. I wanted a little more than that
because I felt it could had a longer runtime. It breathe a sequel that
could happen.

Still, I'll consider this during a time where most expensive Horror
films are underwhelming unintentional comedies with ugly third rate
CGI, Dougherty and his crew decided to continue the practical dream to
us Horror fans and brought us a dark and fun early Christmas gift! In
conclusion, 'Twas the night Krampus entered my life and surprised me
tonight! Merry Christmas and let's hope the force would awake and rise.
Tell me what you think of my review.
<|_=00=_|>
Going into this movie I expected it to be a horror comedy with more
comedy than horror. I was wrong.

Like many horror films this film starts out light and then becomes
continually darker. The start is a great parody of modern day Christmas
and rather funny. The movie gets darker fast and the middle produces a
great mixture of light comedy and dark horror. The last third is
surprisingly dark. The end you'll either hate or love. 

Horror fans will be glad they have a movie to watch every holiday
season. Those seeking more comedy will be disappointed but not by much. 

The cast is excellent and the performances by Scott and Koechner stand
out. Ferrell and Tolman provide great side characters. The rest of the
cast provide good performances with none making me wish there was
another in their place. Characters are well written and the development
is one of the best in a horror film. Characters are supposed to mimic
family and much like many Christmas stories the family is more likable
as it progresses. 

The plot is decent. A warning to commercialism like most Christmas
movies and specials these days except much darker. The horror in the
film plays like a home invasion. There are pure comedic moments that
don't ruin the tone of the movie. There are pure horror moments that
sets the tone. There are only a few horror/comedy mix moments allowing
a dark tone for the movie without being too outlandish.

The only problems I had was with the lack of subtitles and need for
Max/Tom to translate for the German grandma and the ending will give
you mixed feelings. 

Come for horror and stay because Krampus leaves you with a nice present
under the tree.
<|_=00=_|>
Three days before Christmas, a suburban family gets together to
celebrate the holidays. 

One child named Max wants to continue the family's Christmas
traditions, but tensions between members of the family keep everyone
from having a good time and the family lose their Christmas spirit,
especially Max, who rips up his letter to Santa and throws it to the
wind after his cousins read it out at the dinner table Shortly
afterwards, a severe blizzard appears and cuts out power in the entire
town and Christmas will never be the same. 

Now Despite it's Christmas Background this film is anything but cherry.
In fact this film is one of the best main stream horror films produced
in quit some time.

In this film we get a cross between "Night of the Living Dead" and
"Gremlins". If your fans of those films then you will enjoy this movie. 

If you have small children please do not let them watch this.
<|_=00=_|>
Christmas usually a time of cheerfulness and presents thanks to the
jolly Santa is flipped upside down when Krampus comes to town. The
events follow an obnoxious family, who are crude in their comedy, and
have poor decision making. Funny man Adam Scott and horror vet Toni
Collette make a unique couple but are relied upon heavily being the
only serious roles written for the film. There is an appropriate blend
of comedy and horror, which is seen in the absurdity of characters,
evil gingerbread men, and killer toys, not so much the written
dialogue. Once Krampus is seen fully his appearance is pretty cool
looking like an old decrepit vile Santa. The ending was rather a
letdown but overall it was a decent fun horror flick. It would be best
to watch Krampus during Christmas time because it does have a great
holiday feel to it, worthy of a watch for sure.
