
"I saw him beat someone badly, just for talking to me." Leah (Lathan)
and her boyfriend have different plans for the future and decide to
split up. When she meets the charismatic and charming Carter (Ealy) she
easily falls for him. He says and does everything perfect, but when she
sees his dark side things change. Afraid of what he may do next Leah
breaks up with him, but Carter doesn't let go so easy. This is a really
good movie that could have been so much better. The movie gets really
close to the tenseness it is striving for, but ends up falling short.
Carter does do some very scary and terrifying things, but nothing that
hasn't been seen before. The movie really left a lot on the table that
would have really helped it out and made the movie as tense as the
filmmakers wanted it to be. The movie is good and I liked it better
then No Good Deed, but it was just too cliché to really have the impact
it wanted. Overall, not bad and worth watching, but not as tense as it
could have been. I give it a B-.
<|_=00=_|>
Successful lobbyist Leah Vaughn (Sanaa Lathan) is unhappy in her
relationship with her boyfriend David King (Morris Chestnut), as he
does not feel ready to commit to her wishes of starting a family,
causing them to break up. Two months later, she ends up meeting the
charming Carter Duncan (Michael Ealy), who works in IT for another
company. They quickly grow close, and he manages to work his way into
the hearts of her friends as well as her mother and father. On their
way home from a trip to San Francisco, a stranger inquires Leah about
Carter's Dodge Charger at a gas station. Thinking that he was flirting
with her, Carter viciously attacks the man before the mortified Leah,
and he takes off when the station's owner orders them to leave at
gunpoint. Leah decides to break up with Carter that night, distraught
over his actions and his desperate attempts to apologize.

Over the next several weeks, Carter stalks Leah at her job and leaves
numerous phone-calls, even after she changes them. Unbeknownst to her,
he also intrudes into her house with her spare house key, feeling
around her belongings, hacking into her computer, and abducting her
cat. She finally decides to go to the police, meeting with Detective
Hansen (Holt McCallany). He advises her to keep note of any further
attempts he makes to contact her, and one night, she finds a
threatening note and a single red rose attached to her car. The next
morning, a restraining order is filed against Carter at his job, and he
is subsequently fired. Some time later, David contacts Leah about
rekindling their relationship, and Leah eagerly agrees. One night, Leah
and David find Carter watching them at a restaurant, and David grimly
warns him to stay away. They still notify the police, and after Hansen
interrogates Carter over the violation, Carter feigns innocence,
stating that he had no idea she was there and that David was aggressive
towards him. Hansen lets him go.

One night, as Carter is inside Leah's house, her neighbor, Mrs.
McCarthy (Tess Harper) catches him, leading him to chase her back to
her house where he kills her by pushing her down the stairs, causing
her to break her neck. He also watches over Leah and David as they
sleep and have sex. One morning, it's discovered that an email of a
video showing Leah having sex with David was sent by her work account
to her co-workers and her business's clients, and are forced to suspend
her. Another night, Carter sabotages David's car, causing it to flip
down a hill and seriously injure him. Carter goes down to the wreckage
and kills the weakened David by suffocating him with his rubber gloves.

Both Leah and Hansen are certain that Carter is involved, though they
lack the evidence necessary to incriminate him. After investigating
further, Hansen learns that Carter is not his real name, and that he
changed his identity after a similar series of harassment. He subtly
tells Leah to take care of him on her own if necessary, leading her to
buy a shotgun and shells. Carter seems to assume a new identity, as
Leah spots him with another woman. She frightens her off and files
another restraining order against him in front his new employers, once
again getting him fired. She then manages to find a hideout of his
where he monitors her, as well as finding her cat. She destroys his
numerous computers and leaves, daring him to come after her again.

That night, Carter breaks into Leah's home, and after luring him to an
empty room, she aims her gun at him. After managing to knock the gun
out of her hand, a struggle ensues, which ends with her slashing his
arm and shooting him twice with bean-bag ammo in an attempt to
immobilize him. After he continues to advance, she shoots him with an
actual shell, killing him. A now relieved Leah reports Carter to Hansen
as an intruder, and police cart his corpse out of her house.

The perfect guy is a perfect thriller movie with a sexy black woman I
wish I could hug and kiss.
<|_=00=_|>
My review is on a drama, thriller movie that took you on a
roller-coaster ride. In the movie Leah (Sanaa Lathan) a 36 year old
lobbyist in L.A breaks up with her boyfriend Dave (Morris Chestnut)
because of a decision they couldn't agree on. She moves on to find what
she thinks is a better man named Carter (Micheal Ealy) thinking he is
the man of her dreams. As days pass and their relationship grows
stronger, true sides of their personalities begin to show and the man
that Leah thinks Carter is turns out to be the complete opposite of her
hopes. You won't believe the ups, downs, twists, and turns of the movie
called "The Perfect Guy" directed by David M. Rosenthal. David M.
Rosenthal did a wonderful job in directing. From picking great actress
to having a good script and also having the movie relate to other
well-known movies, in my opinion this is the best movie I have seen in
a long time. Talk about David picking good actress, Sanaa Lathan, she
is one gorgeous eye candy for me who love women and is very talented.
As for Morris Chestnut, he plays a very good role at being a family
man. He plays the family man in many familiar movies such as "Not
Easily Broken" and "The Best Man Holiday." And That Michael Ealy, can
you say one of a kind. Michael can play many different roles like
stalking, to cold-hearted, to even being a loving, kind man. These 3
together in a movie is like a dream come true. No matter what type of
movie they are playing in together the movie is going to be off the
chain. Any script that's handed to them is acted out with all they got.
The script that they acted out in this movie was awesome. Most movies
have a lot of profanity or unpleasing words that makes you disgusted
and not want to watch it anymore but this movie was very enjoyable and
entertaining to watch. It reminds you of so many different movies with
twists of love, thriller, and drama such as "A Thin Line Between Love
and Hate" directed by Martin Lawrence and "Obsessed" directed by Steve
Shill. In conclusion, this is my favorite movie of all time. In my
opinion, the movie was great and there need to be more movies to come
out just like this one. I feel if you have never seen this movie that
you need to go see it as soon as possible. It just came out this year,
September 2015, so it is not too late. If you aren't one of those
people to go to the movie theater make sure you buy it on DVD because
this is worth money and the trip to Walmart, Target, Kmart, etc. You
can miss any movie in the world that comes out after this one but be
sure not to miss this one. "The Perfect Guy" will have you on the edge
of your seat with anticipation.
<|_=00=_|>
You can't judge a book by its cover  or people by first impressions.
Both are truisms that I've seen play out often  in my life and in the
lives of others. Excellent art work doesn't necessarily mean that the
book underneath that cover is any good (or the movie behind the poster,
for that matter). More importantly, when looking for a life partner,
regardless of how charming the man, or alluring the woman, what's
underneath is what matters in the long run  and the best way to make
life-defining judgments about a potential mate will always be T-I-M-E.
The problem comes in when the cover of that book is so utterly
impressive that you commit to reading it, but end up regretting it  or
when you go ahead and put in the time, then start to sense that you
won't like that last chapter. These are the kinds of situations that
become real problems for the main character in "The Perfect Guy"
(PG-13, 1:40).

Leah Vaughn (Sanaa Lathan) has it all well, most of it anyway. She has
good looks, a devoted boyfriend and a great job as a lobbyist in L.A.
What she doesn't have is a life-long commitment from her man. At the
age of 36, and after two years of dating Dave (Morris Chestnut), Leah
decides that she's tired of waiting for him to decide when he's ready
to marry her and start a family. She tells Dave to leave, and again
finds herself alone, but not for long. She meets another very eligible
bachelor, but this one seems to know exactly what he wants. Carter
Duncan comes off as charming, kind and generous as he is good-looking
and sexy. He quickly earns Leah's affections, impresses her friends
(Rutina Wesley and Kathryn Morris) and wins over her father (Charles S.
Dutton). Carter really does seem to be the perfect guy.

Then Leah cracks open that book. Carter soon shows that, underneath his
cover, he has some serious imperfections. Leah thinks it's best to
close the book on this initially very promising relationship. Carter
doesn't quite accept her decision. Harassment, stalking and some very
creepy behavior follows. Then, Dave re-enters the picture. He asks for,
and gets, another chance at being Leah's forever man. Carter likes this
development even less than the restraining order that Leah sent his
way. Now we have a full-blown love triangle  and one of these men
turns out to be full-blown crazy. A sympathetic police detective (Holt
McCallany) does everything he can to protect Leah, and her neighbor
(Tess Harper) looks out for her, but Leah ends up having to figure a
way out of her situation mostly by herself.

"The Perfect Guy" is formulaic, fairly predictable  and fun. We've
seen this basic story in "Fatal Attraction" (1987), "Sleeping with the
Enemy" (1991), "Double Jeopardy" (1999), "Enough" (2002), etc., all the
way up to 2015's "The Boy Next Door" and beyond, but this one earns its
place among those earlier films. The dialog is crisp and real and, for
a nice change, the script doesn't portray the cops as indifferent and
powerless (although some moviegoers may feel that the extent to which
one detective helps Leah sends a dangerous message). This film nicely
updates the genre by showing the very real perils of being a stalk-ee
in the early 21st century. Rarely have an obsessed lover's actions been
more unsettling, more intrusive and more frightening than in this film.
For her part, Leah's dignity, spirit and resourcefulness are also very
impressive. A very solid supporting cast back up the excellent
performances of the three main characters, and all three are also
pretty easy on the eye. (Plus, it's nice to see more ethnic diversity
in the thriller genre.) "The Perfect Guy" may not be a perfectly
original movie, but its appealing cast, smart script and
well-constructed story make it worth a look. "B+"
<|_=00=_|>
I read this description of the movie:

"After a painful breakup, successful lobbyist Leah Vaughn (Sanaa
Lathan) jumps into a passionate relationship with a charming stranger
(Michael Ealy). When her ex-boyfriend (Morris Chestnut) resurfaces in
her life she has to figure out who she should trust and who she should
fear." 

And after reading that I thought that this would be a thrilling movie
in my taste. But even though I love Sanaa Lathans acting and the main
plot this was nothing other than a big disappointment. 

"She has to figure out who she should trust and who she should fear".
Absolutely not. Leah and the audience knows from the very first second
who's the villain and who's not in this movie. That's what's make it
such a boring and predictable movie. 

It was the typical "get the neighbor that suspect that something is
wrong to be quiet so let's push her down the stairs", and "let's
destroy the wheels of the car and make it look like an accident" and so
on. Nothing you haven't seen before in these kind of movies.

So predictable movie. No plot twist what so ever. Don't think it's
worth your time. Can strongly recommend to watch Disturbia and Boy next
Door instead that has plots similar to this one but are MUCH more
thrilling and unpredictable.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie based on various recommendations from friends.
Inam a sucker for a good thriller. The actor mix is perfect and , even
though some parts are predictable, you will definitely enjoy the movie.
I loved the main trio and their performances. This movie can be
considered a life lesson because you don't really know who is that you
are dating out there. Watch till the end,nice twists.

I liked that the characters are not typical and that some boundaries
are actually pushed in this movie. I went w my bf and a friend and all
three of us agreed it is a nice movie, different than all the usual
ones .
<|_=00=_|>
Wednesday, 16 September 2015 I went to see the movie; "The Perfect Guy"
with talented and pretty Sanaa Lathan. I like her in all of her movies
and she is pretty eye candy for men who love women. Morris and Michael
are equally good in their roles.

The movie is well worth the money. I enjoyed all of it, as did the
audience by their reaction while I was watching it.

However, in the 80's when I was in college in cinema studies, I
remember one of my professors telling the class I was in that every
movie or TV idea has been done at least once or even twice. Look at all
the versions of vampire movies of old style to action vampire movies
such as Blade to romantic such as Twilight or movies about space.

This movie is a good twist on such movies as "Fatal Attraction" with
Michael Douglas & Glynn Close, "Thin Line between Love and Hate" with
Martin Lawrence or the more recent, "Obsessed" with Idris Elba and "Boy
Next Door" with beautiful and talented Jennifer Lopez.

I think the writers did a good job with this version. I give it a 9 and
two thumbs up. I also like the fact that Not a lot of profanity cursing
in it and no real nudity, which was a plus.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those movies that could have been so much more than what
we get on film. The characters had great potential, and there were 3
fairly good performers in the 3 lead roles. And a great supporting cast
highlighted to me by Holt McCallany as Detective Hansen. The weakest
performer to me was Michael Ealy. He played his character from the
beginning as too one note. Even when all the friends and family were
seeing him as a good guy in the beginning of their relationship, the
way Ealy acted and used his eye movements I never could like him at
all. The pacing to me was really bad too. They jumped over so much of
the big moments in the first of the movie as if to get to the part of
him stalking her. It was like they were rushing to get to what they saw
as the good part. But the good part was so predictable. You could
almost see everything coming before it happened. I never felt any
tension or any feeling of the characters being in danger even though
they were. It was a movie with a lot of potential but a big let down.
<|_=00=_|>
The title and story, albeit clichéd and predictable - very much so, The
Perfect Guy still ends up being an entertaining romance thriller.The
movie does a good job at moving at an appropriate pace, cutting out all
the unnecessary drama, which helps a whole lot in keeping the thrill
alive.

Sanaa Lathan is incredibly gorgeous and exudes a certain level of
class, which makes her an absolute joy to watch. Ealy and Chestnut give
satisfactory performances and the score also, gets a well deserved
thumbs up.

My biggest problems with this film, apart from its platitudes, is 1; 

Leah Vaughn complaining about being dated out, then went on to sleep
with Carter in a club... A very dodgy looking club at that. It almost
didn't quite make sense, however though, when you look at it from the
angle of; "The director trying to portray bit by bit, from different
scopes, the type of person Leah is "getting in bed with", you sort of
see that scenes purpose. 

2. The ending. Carter was smart all through the movie, calm and
composed, and instead of being defeated by an intelligent counter
attack, he was defeated by what felt like, brute force.

Nonetheless, The Perfect Guy was enjoyable. It didn't attempt to be
more than what it was. A very solid 6.4/10.
<|_=00=_|>
A friend recommended I watch the movie, said it's good. I'll admit, I'm
a tough critic, yet I'll always state my claim and justify my
decisions. I'm also a techie, so you'll get to see why the movie falls
short.

The movie starts out great, the love/romance, leading up to the
disagreements, reasons for disagreements as well as an ultimatum is
nearly perfect. Next comes a seemingly better option for the distressed
female star.

Jumping from a seemingly broken relationship, to a nearly "Perfect
Guy", she thought she was surely in for the best of what life has to
offer. Jumping into quickly opening up her life to her new found love,
she begins to see just how wrong things are. This is where things take
a turn for the worse, and the thrilling parts of the movie begins.

Issue #1: The problem of the key: The main character and even the
police took way too long to ask about a possible key to get into her
house. She knows she doesn't have a hidden camera, so how did a video
from that angle get recorded? 

Issue #2: Problem of the stalker's apartment: No real smart tech person
is going to have hacking gear at his apartment. Especially when
hacking. This stupidity in movie making must stop. Leased connections
can easily be traced, show something realistic, like using public WiFi,
a disposable laptop, etc. 

Issue #3: Problem of a search warrant: After the main character's video
got leaked from her email, with a suspect already questioned, a court
order should have been obtained to search his apartment. 

Issue #4: The ex boyfriend coming back in her life was good, however
lacked substance. They should have discussed relationship goals going
forward, I don't believe that was laid out clearly.

Issue #5: The fight scene at the end was absurd, in my humble opinion.
She could have shot him with the non-lethal bullets in the bathroom and
then shoot him. Her bright idea of a struggle, lose the gun, then get
it back is a terrible idea at best. He could have shot her after taking
the gun. 

If the above issues were corrected, I'd think this movie would be much
better. Non-the-less, it was a good watch, can't take it all away.
