
Let's face it, dolls and poltergeists have been overdone in the past
decades. It's always the same plot. However, it has NEVER been done
like this. At first, it was a bit predictable. Nanny comes in,
encounters creepy family, goes with the flow, experiences some
disturbing shizz, still goes with the flow because continuity. There
were some jumps that were nicely executed and it certainly kept the
viewer interested. But movies like this usually head in one
direction... This one, on the other hand, brought in something
refreshing. I can honestly say I never saw the twist coming. There were
very subtle hints, if any. Overall, it was above average yet unnerving.
It wins a few points on creativity, so it's a 7.5. Rated it 9 to
balance the score and encourage new opinions.
<|_=00=_|>
I give it an 9 stars because the end kind of sets it up for a sequel,
but hey, the rest of "The Boy" is beautifully stylized and paced
similar to the spooky, suspenseful and disturbing '60's British made
thrillers like Betty Davis' "The Nanny"and Debra Kerr's "The Innocents"
only with an added surprise ending and faster pace.

From the trailer this movie is not what you think it is and not one of
your run of the mill "Child's Play" Chucky doll revenge type '80's
flicks. I sort of knew this going in just from the fact smart actors
such as Lauren Cohan rarely make bad decisions on movie choices such as
this and by god she makes it all believable just as she does in
"Walking Dead".

This is a very maturely written, photographed and acted movie reminding
me of a really good Twilight Zone episode that gradually unfolds
revealing the layers of mystery in this case on the reasons for why an
elderly couple would be caring for a life size boy doll which is
disturbing on its own right from the get go.

There'll be more questions than answers as the movie progresses where
the end will allow the viewer to fill in the blanks with an implied
causality from connecting the dots looking back which is the best way
to write a movie and view it. Don't explain everything. The audience
has a better imagination and intellect.

This will probably be a classic as time goes on as I believe "The
Orphan" both odd and unique thrillers.
<|_=00=_|>
When you're crazy, do you know you're crazy? It's a question I've heard
asked in movies and in real life, but it is quite the poser (at least
for those of us who are not crazy as far as we know). In other words,
when you're doing things that other people would call "crazy", at what
point do you move from "eccentric", or even "weird", to genuinely,
certifiably using the clinical term "bat-sh** crazy"? These are some
of the questions you'll be asking about more than one character in the
horror thriller "The Boy" (PG-13, 1:37). But you'll soon find out that
insanity is only one possible explanation for the unusual behavior of
various characters and the many strange happenings throughout this very
entertaining film.

Greta Evans (Lauren Cohan) is a young Montana woman (around 30) who is
restarting her life. To escape an abusive relationship with her former
boyfriend, Cole (Ben Robson), she doesn't just leave him  she leaves
the country. Greta gets hired as a nanny (a job she's never done
before) by the wealthy Mr. and Mrs. Heelshire (Jim Norton and Diana
Hardcastle), an eccentric older couple living in a big, isolated house
in the English countryside. Unusual stuff, but things definitely move
to weird-slash-creepy when Greta first sets eyes on her young charge.
The "boy" that Greta is supposed to care for turns out to be a
marionette-like porcelain doll. Greta thinks it's all a joke, but the
Heelshires aren't laughing. They lost their son, Brahms (Jett Klyne),
in a house fire on the boy's 8th birthday. They coped with their loss
by starting to care for a doll which looks like their son and is about
the size of an 8-year-old boy. They've been calling this doll "Brahms"
and treating him like a real boy for about 20 years. Now, it's Greta's
turn.

After giving Greta detailed instructions regarding Brahms' care and
leaving her with a clipboard containing a list of ten rules (and
whispering a cryptic "I'm very sorry" as they head out the door), the
Heelshires drive away for their first vacation in "a very long time."
Greta is now alone with Brahms in that big wireless-less house. Her
only contacts with the outside world are her friend, Sandy (Stephanie
Lemelin), whom Greta calls regularly from an old rotary-dial phone, and
Malcolm (Rupert Evans), the handsome young local man who delivers
groceries and brings mail to the house about once a week.

At first, Greta treats the doll as most of us would, tossing it aside
and ignoring it. But the longer Greta ignores that list, the more
strange things begin to happen in that house. Her clothes disappear.
She gets locked in the attic. She finds a mess in Brahms' bedroom. She
starts to hear noises and see shadows. Greta is creeped out and begins
having scary nightmares about Brahms. Then, the doll starts showing up
in places other than where Greta left him. When she calls Malcolm over
to witness all this, and he sees that Greta is now treating the doll as
if he's real, Malcolm starts to treat her as if she's bat-sh** crazy.

"The Boy" is very well-directed and pretty original. William Brent Bell
(who also helmed 2012's "The Devil Inside") masters the slow build,
making us wonder throughout the film who's crazy and who's not, as he
gives us a few good gotcha-type scares along the way. His cast is
better than in many horror flicks and they keep us interested during
the times that not much happens. Stacey Menear's script keeps us
guessing and then brings everything together in a mind-blowing twist
that few will see coming and which shocks, without resorting to cheap
tricks. This film skillfully blends some elements of earlier horror
movies like "The Shining" (1980), "Child's Play" (1988) and "The
Others" (2001), but has a fresh and even more modern feel to it. All
aspects of this fun and exciting horror thriller are on target  from
its creativity, to more technical aspects, such as its set, camera
work, visuals and editing. Missing this movie, or letting anyone tell
you the ending before you see it for yourself, would be kinda crazy.
"A"
<|_=00=_|>
NO spoilers

OK, OK, i understand most peoples problems with this flick. It has some
gaps, and some missing story elements. I read a couple of reviews, and
people complained about things not being explained and impossible
scenarios. But this move was super entertaining. I did not want to turn
away, it kept me glued, and was fun. What else do you really want from
a horror or mystery movie? It was original, and inventive, and the
acting was good. Was it a perfect movie, no... but it was definitely
worth watching, and if your on the fence about it, don't be, watch it.
And i am picky.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm an avid IMDb user. This is actually my first time writing a review
though. I felt inclined after browsing through other's reviews saying
how horrible this movie was. It was actually a lot better than I
expected. I wasn't in a huge hurry to see it, but I'm happy I watched
it. I haven't been a fan of many newer horror movies with the exception
of It Follows, but I recommend watching this with an open mind. There's
a twist that makes it worth while and I must admit, I didn't see it
coming a mile away. Perfect ending to my mini Friday the 13th marathon.
-- -- -- -- ----- ----- -----------------
---------------------------------------- ---
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a lot better than I expected with good acting, good
character development, and a good plot. When I first heard about this
movie I thought it was going to be anther disappointing horror movie,
but instead it was a really surprising and well pacing movie with an
amazing twist no one's going to see coming.

The characters in this movie are likable, and smart. Even though I
never heard of anyone who acted in this film, I think they did an
amazing job delivering, and making the movie more intense and
entertaining. 

The director does an fantastic job with this movie. Letting the viewers
know what's going on though the whole movie. Making scenes very
suspenseful and having a good pay off.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Boy" presents us with an interesting premise from the start. A
young American woman takes a job as a nanny to an elderly couple's
child in Britain. Only when she gets to their large, creepy mansion
does she learn the "boy" is really a doll that the couple treats as if
it is alive and their son. Much of what ensues after this is fairly
predictable. We know the doll is going to end up doing creepy things,
or at least we'll be led to believe this is the case. We also know
there will be something more going on than what meets the eye. Lauren
Cohan does a very good job, which is essential because she has to carry
most of the movie. Many scenes are with her and the doll alone. Also,
the setting and the doll itself do a great job of creating the mood.
The film does well at holding the viewer's attention; however, once we
see the final "twist" we understand that it was really the only
reasonable explanation--although it is really not all that reasonable.
There are a few scenes where the dialog and impact fall a little flat.
I recommend the film to those who really like this genre, because there
is enough there to make it worthwhile; however, do not expect a
masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are looking for a horror movie with more originality than usual
this may be your film. Most horrors are standard genre films that rely
on cinema clichés to frighten us and audiences have become immune to
plots with spooky dolls, isolated nannies and scary mansions. The Boy
(2016) stands out by combining all of these horror tropes into a single
story then overlays them with a plausible thriller about parental
grief. It tries to be a serious film without the lame humour which so
often sugar-coats horror movies into comedy-thrillers. But the downside
is also typical of the genre: it runs out of ideas on how to finish the
job.

Greta (Lauren Cohan) is fleeing a bad relationship and applies for a
nanny job caring for an 8-year old. She arrives at an isolated mansion
in the English countryside and the child turns out to be a life-size
doll called Brahms. The older couple's son died in mysterious
circumstances twenty years earlier and Brahms is their way of dealing
with unresolved grief. The creepy parents abruptly depart for an
extended holiday, leaving Greta with strict instructions on how to care
for Brahms. At first she ignores Brahms but soon weird things happen
like the doll changes position and strange sounds echo through the
house. Greta is alone and terrified until she befriends the local
grocery guy Malcolm, but all hell breaks loose when the violent
ex-boyfriend turns up unexpectedly. Poor Brahms becomes the unwanted
child in some high-tension scenes but predictably the doll gets its
revenge.

Although not a great fan of horrors, this one kept me engaged until the
final quarter where a tired old stock-standard formula is used to tie
the narrative ends together. Until then, the film maintains a menacing
Gothic atmosphere and enough surprises to keep you guessing what will
happen next. Lauren Cohan is well cast as Greta and the story moves
along at a lively pace. If you are not willing to suspend disbelief and
go along with the story premise, you are unlikely to see it through and
you are probably not a horror fan anyway. A good test if it will work
on you is to grab a toy doll and stare into its eyes; if your mind can
fantasise it staring back at you with malicious intent, you pass and
should see The Boy.
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS WILL ABOUND HERE. TURN BACK IF YOU DON'T WANT THEM PLEASE

This movie combines all of the worst aspects of what is wrong with
horror and Hollywood writing, in general, in 2016. It's a mediocre,
unoriginal and bland thriller that relies on generic jump scares to
create most of its' tension. After, at the least, maintaining a clear
narrative the movie unleashes on of the most ridiculous twist endings
since HIGH TENSION.

Lauren Cohen stars in this movie from Universal (that signifies how far
they have fallen from their glory years of horror). She is an American
girl who has moved to England to escape some dark moments in her life
and take a job as a nanny. Only this is no ordinary nanny job, she is
to watch a doll. As if that wasn't bizarre enough, the "parents" of
this doll have a laundry list of very particular rules for the nanny to
follow. Almost immediately, they leave her alone with the doll. Of
course, like most of us would do, she doesn't take these duties
seriously at first, ignoring the doll and going on about her life
isolated in this country home. Then, things start to go weird, as items
disappear and finally she is trapped overnight in an attic.

After these events, our heroine starts to take the doll seriously and
realize that there is a spirit in the house who demands care of the
doll or will unleash devilish tricks on her. Most of us have an innate
unsettled feeling with dolls and mannequins and the movie does a good
job of playing with this fear. There are some genuinely creepy scenes
where the doll will unnerve even the most jaded horror fan.
Unfortunately, the movie falls down generic Hollywood horror traps far
too often, though, as almost every real "scare" in this movie is the
most boring of boring types -- the jump scare. Yes, the music ratchets
up, the mood intensifies and the camera zooms in slowly only for
something to jump out at us with a loud noise, accompanied by jarring
music. It's such lazy film making.

Lauren Cohen doesn't help much here, either. She's a pretty face that
most know from THE WALKING DEAD, but even as an ardent fan of that
show, I found her to be a generic actress there. Try as the show might
to make Maggie interesting, Cohen just brings no real emotion to the
role. Here, it's much the same. She's the pretty girl next door and
that's about it. It's hard to feel much for her because the actress has
done nothing to bring sympathy to the role.

Still, all things considered, for the first 75 minutes or so the movie
has done an average job of presenting an, at least, entertaining (if
unmemorable) thriller, then we get to the twist. Hollywood seems to
have a fascination with the twist and I think that horror falls into
this trap the worst. This is the most horrid kind of twist. Look at a
classic twist like THE SIXTH SENSE. The viewer can go back and re-
watch the film and there is ample evidence everywhere that the viewer
could have seen this coming. The twist does something to support the
previous narrative and make it all the more impactful. 

Too many amateur writers seem to feel it is okay to just pull the rug
out from under the viewer and say "Aha, I got you". No, you didn't
"get" anyone with this ending. You spent all of this time building a
tense mood around a spirit who may be possessing this doll, then soiled
all over it. There are so many things the writer could have done
intelligently with that premise, but the real threat is much more
generic. What was the point of having a doll in the first place? Why
all the rules? Why the doll? Why bother? You could have done a ghost
story and left out the twist. You could have done a creepy mystery guy
movie and left out the doll. By combining these, you've only created
something ludicrous. It's tempting for a writer because an
unintelligent viewer will typically confuse an out of nowhere twist
with good writing, but this just isn't the case. A twist means nothing
if you didn't support it along the way, build towards it and use it to
bring meaning to what has come before. Otherwise, all you've done is
left one narrative unfinished and tacked on a different story at the
end.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd like to start off by saying despite the 5 out of 10 rating, I do
recommend this movie, for reasons that will be made clear if you decide
to read this before seeing the movie...

For the first, I'd say, 75 minutes of The Boy, you think you know (or
at least I did) where the filmmakers are taking you... sort of. It
seems like a kind of mashing together of the sort of English
rural-secluded countryside of an older horror film like The Innocents
(and that's to the movie's credit), and the 'doll is here and what is
it *doing*) of Child's Play. I'm sure there were some other influences
for this work - one of which I didn't know about until I was told of it
much later on social media - but this starts off as a kind of batty (in
a good way) horror story about an older couple who leave a woman
(Lauren Cohan) in charge of taking care of Broms: a little 8 year old
boy who happens to also be a doll. And nevermind that he's a doll -
he'll need lots of comfort and caring to, such as reading to Broms and
making sure its tucked in at night and fed and played classical music
and what the hell is going on here?!

This has an intriguing premise and I was kind of surprised by the
quality of the filmmaking (at least for a January movie, when in recent
memory you get schlock like The Devil Inside or even boring dreck like
The Forest from the start of January), and the director and
cinematographer and editor all pay attention to pacing and setting the
mood and not really relying too heavily on jump scares, which are the
death of horror cinema. There are a couple, but it's not the name of
the game - it's more about 'where is Broms now, what is he doing, or
what will Greta do next with this thing, and is it all in her mind?' It
turns out the latter isn't true, and it seems like you can figure the
movie out pretty easily... 

And then the filmmakers do something that is absolutely bat-s*** insane
and turn everything on its head in the dumbest way imaginable. As it
turns out (and this why I clicked 'spoiler' at the top), the movie
really takes a lot of inspiration from a *1970's TV movie* called Bad
Ronald (unseen by me, nothing to do with McDonald's fyi), which has the
plot description of a perverted teenage boy who lives in the walls of a
house after being left behind by his parents (who die) finds new people
move in. Um... OK, that may work for that movie, but in the case of The
Boy, the reveal of who Broms really is, makes for the craziest logic
that I've ever come across for a mainstream horror movie - it combats
The Village if you can believe it - and yet it doesn't really earn the
brainpower to go back and think 'wait, how does that connect to this
and that and... damn it.'

It suddenly turns what's been a not great (there's one story hole with
mail that I won't get into here) but interesting horror movie with a
solid lead in Cohan into a nightmare. I don't mean that in any positive
sense! In the last several minutes it turns into some later-period
Jason Voorhees or Michael Myers flick, as Broms - the *real* Broms -
has super-human strength despite living IN THE WALLS OF HIS HOUSE and
still wears a Broms-doll mask over a hipster beard. It's so insane that
you can't turn away, despite the jaw dropping past the floor and down
the aisles to the bottom of the theater.
