
TMNT 2 is silly and flamboyant enough to work as a live-action cartoon
movie. It embraces its crazy plot (the story operates in a world where
mutant turtles have been taught martial arts by a mutant rat, 'nuff
said). However, the film suffers a lot of what we can call "convenient
circumstances"  unaddressed plot holes are deliberately ignored by
forgetting events and characters being conveniently placed at locations
to advance the plot without explanation whatsoever. Also, it may be
nitpicking but there's no attempt to explain how these turtles become
experts in crafting CIA-level tech.

The level of humor in this film is clearly catered to a young audience.
For adults, you may get a healthy dose of nostalgia if you were once
that kid who were really into the cartoons, otherwise you'll find the
script stale. The fun interactions between the brothers are still
present but what gives them more depth here is when they start to
experience teenage anxiety  issues of belonging and identity. I'm
keeping it vague so as not to spoil anything, but yes, they actually
have a subplot this time! Sadly, things aren't sustained as the film
rushes through, ending it in favor of a big climactic action sequence.

Speaking of action sequences, the movie never strays away from the
basic Michael Bay blockbuster formula (he's the producer, of course):
over-the-top CGI-heavy destruction, one action set piece after another.
If the first TMNT movie offers a fun-filled chase down a snowy
mountain, the most adrenaline-pumping action sequence here starts with
skydiving and ends with a waterfall jump. The film also takes the
liberty in ripping-off previous blockbusters  a retrofitted
garbage-slash-war truck (Mad Max), a via inter-dimensional sky portal
alien invasion (The Avengers) and a police car chase/prisoner escape
scene (The Dark Knight and Fast and Furious). And as if to acknowledge
the debt, Raphael mutters to himself, "What would Vin Diesel do?"

Remarkably, there is an improvement in the CGI department, more
specifically with the look of the ninja turtles  less gritty, more
friendly-looking. The voice actors are not to be faulted in giving
better distinction to their characters' personalities the leader
(Leo), the muscle (Raph), the brains (Donnie) and the wild one (Mikey).
And just to make sure that viewers won't be confused again, they are
re-introduced twice in the film (which is odd). Megan Fox, as the main
human protagonist, however still fails in-I can't believe I'm about to
say this- effectively engaging the audience. She fares better as an
anti-hero or villain (Jennifer's Body). Her sex appeal is even pushed
to a breaking point during an inexplicable costume change scene to a
sexy school-girl outfit to keep the males awake. Will Arnett's
character Vern, sidelined as an comic-relief is a good choice for he
does little to advance the plot. Stephen Amell obviously got the role
of Casey Jones due to his physical work in "Arrow" and the fact that
they needed someone equally attractive as Fox. He does his best,
especially in action scenes, but him joining forces with the turtles is
rushed and poorly done. Shredder, recast with Brian Tee, returns as a
human and not some sort of a transformer is still lackluster as a
villain. Super-villain Krang who looks hideous and remotely realistic
could've better served with a more fleshed-out backstory. Of all the
villains, arguably the comical mutant duo, Bebop and Rocksteady, steal
the show.

There is no doubt that Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows
is better in nearly every way than its predecessor. It is
turtle-focused and it re-wires the franchise to the right direction. I
am not all "Cowabunga!" for this sequel (the plot still rots my
brains), but if you're looking for two hours of frothy entertainment
and 'Bay'-esque action sequences are your guilty pleasure, bring some
pizzas because you're in to a one (s)hell of a ride.

Full review: http://goo.gl/xoNRno
<|_=00=_|>
Mindless, superhero, brain candy, zoom. Bad jokes, great effects,
explosions go boom.

My neck muscles are tighter than piano wires and I've sweated enough
this week to fill a swimming pool. At the end of a long week of mad
work, sometimes you just want to sit down and switch off your brain.

So, thank you, turtles. I like it when you hit stuff.

Is this a dumb movie? The obvious answer is yes, of course it's dumb,
it's more superhero schlock: kiddie-fare enjoyed by 30-somethings.

But I don't know. Any fight scene with martial arts is a bit like a
magician's sleight of hand. It's too fast to follow completely, but if
done well we can see sophistication in the movement, and a fight is a
bit of a story in itself. There's the setup, escalation of conflict,
then boom, resolution. The best parts of this movie are not of the
turtles talking but when things go all smashy-smash-smash. Smash.

Smash.

Where the film drags is with its human characters, who have way too
much screen time. Casey Jones is a 30-something who talks like a
12-year-old ("Someday, I'm going to be a detective!") and Shredder,
regrettably, is mostly without his mask and doesn't throw a single pie.
Megan Fox is wearing less makeup this time around, but in "acting,"
less is more. Baxter Stockman is likable, but doesn't turn into a giant
fly.

But it's inoffensive, fun to look at, and a nice thing to shut your
brain off to while recovering from a long week of sweaty haste.
<|_=00=_|>
It was inevitable that the sequel would be imminent out within a couple
of years to keep the memories of the first film fresh in people's
minds.

But my memories of that film were of this reboot being a complete waste
of time, but with a decent set piece involving snow, and nothing more
than a Michael Bay produced cash machine with no soul.

The turtles face a new challenge when Shredder escapes from custody and
joins forces with Baxter Stockman, a mad scientist who plans to use a
serum to take over the world. 

Along for the ride are Bebop and Rocksteady, two dimwitted henchmen who
provide plenty of muscle. 

Luckily, the turtles have their own allies in April O'Neil, Vernon
Fenwick and Casey Jones, a hockey-masked vigilante...... 

As the pizza-loving heroes prepare for battle, the notorious Krang also
emerges to pose an even greater threat.

And this time it's pretty much the same, apart from the fact that there
isn't a decent set piece in its ridiculously long running time, in
fact, you'd be hard pressed to call this a actual film as it has not
coherence, no narrative, it just goes from one place to another, and
for a film focusing on giant Ninja Turtles, it's one of the most boring
experiences I've had at the cinema this year.

It's a CG nightmare, with soulless, hate worthy characters spouting and
idiotic script to lifeless looking CG characters with attitude.

It's as if Bay has just made one long commercial for toys, cars and
clothing, and we've had to pay for the pleasure. 

But Bay has really outdone himself with this one, it's actually worse
than Age Of Exhaustion, and by looking at the box office for this,
people are becoming tired of his action movies.

Really, if you were a fan of the Turtles back in the day, seek out
Secret Of The Ooze, at least it has Vanilla Ice in it.
<|_=00=_|>
I was pretty disappointed with this movie. My disappointment started
off with April needing to download some information from this scientist
but she has to follow this other guy to get close enough. Well, she
could have just followed behind him nonchalantly, but no, she has to
put on this skimpy school girl outfit while walking and pretend to be
part of this other group of cheerleaders or something. Well, her pants
seem to just magically disappear in one scene to the next. It was
pretty pointless and senseless, and it was just a scene to say, hey
look how hot she is.. groans. Which brings me to my next point of how
terrible Megan Fox's acting is. They just seem to throw her in there
for mostly eye candy and nothing else. Why do they keep putting her in
movies??? But it doesn't stop there. The entire movie was well, dorky
at best. The pace was a bit fast even though the movie was really long.
Also, how the hell did Donatello access an alien spaceship and get the
name of the leader?? That doesn't even make sense. The language would
be completely foreign and, well, too alien to even decipher if it were
even able to connect to it somehow. Also, there isn't enough rhino or
pig DNA in us to make a pig/man or rhino/man, it's just not possible.
Nothing in this movie makes sense. This movie is just too kiddy and
cartoony but even the original cartoon series made more sense then this
crap.

I decided to give this 5 stars because it has good graphics and is
kinda funny sometimes. If all you are looking for is cheap thrills and
cool CGI action scenes, then you may enjoy this. But if you like a
movie with substance, look somewhere else.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all I guess most people didn't ask for a sequel of TMNT, come
on. Or at least, no one was excited about another one. But if you
decide to produce/direct a new one, why is this a copy/paste from other
movies?? Was it necessary?? The sound effects are EXACTLY THE SAME from
all Transformers movies. And also they called Jablonsky for the music,
which of course is EXACTLY THE SAME from Transformers. And the best and
most innovative idea: "a portal". LOL! Looks like the portal must be a
cast member from these type of movies. New ideas? Anyone? Michael Bay,
I assume you were too involved, stop doing this. Lack of compromise and
a bunch of lazy people have produced/directed this movie, which as you
see, wasn't necessary.
<|_=00=_|>
You know the feeling. Fever and ill. You think OK, lets watch some
easily digestible movies. I choose the two new Turtle movies. I was
pleasantly surprised while watching the first one. It actually was
pretty true to the original comic even it it wasn't as dark. Then this
one was up. And what an awful followup. i actually regret wasting my
time watching this.. and i have the fever! For crying out loud. Why...
i mean.. Shredder isn't even a big part of this movie. In the first he
is a skilled warrior and in this he is but a legman.

No this isn't OK. i don't want to live in a world where the Twilight
saga is a better alternative then the Turtles?

What happened? I was actually going to watch batman vs Superman now,
but i cant take any more crap. I don't care how bad ass you are. if you
see an alien who wants to strike a deal with you about world domination
then first give it more then 2 secs of thinking time. seriously. Was
this movie written by an 10 year old?? Oh yeah i guess so. its a
Nicolodian jam! Thank you for destroying yet another childhood IP. 

Spoiler warning: This movie sucks!

/Seth Out!
<|_=00=_|>
Heroes in a half shell....(wait for it) TURTLE POWER! TMNT: Out of the
Shadows is awesome, just plain awesome! Okay, I am slightly biased. I
have been a fan of the four, shell laden mutants since I was 4. 

However, the first movie disappointed me. It lacked that little
something, flavour possibly? Earthly comedic value? I don't know, but I
didn't come away from the showing feeling like I had seen something
that was justifiable to the franchise. 

This movie was different! It is childish with an adult feel. The script
is well prepared and executed. Cinematography and special effects are
on a par with brilliance. 

What makes this movie great is the paid homage to old characters that
we have come to know and love. Bebop, Rocksteady, Baxter Stockman and
Krang - are all introduced in this sequel. The writers have really
thrown their eggs into one basket and it worked. So very often, screen
time and plot can suffer because of character introduction and the
subsequent make up of their involvement within the walls of the story.
However, this did not hinder the movie one bit. The characters were
introduced and spaced well. Dialogue was fluid and the script flowed
well enough to keep my attention. 

Fox was her ever sexy, sleuthy self as April and the Turtles were, well
Green and Mean. (Michaelangelo is still the steal of the performances).
The story is thick with old and new method, it is great for the older
fan of the franchise and superb for the new fan. 

The action is mixed well with underlying emotional out play. The one
liners are directed well and the overlay of tense if predictable
moments are enough to make you want TMNT OFTS play on. 

If there was a "bad" egg in the movie, it is Stephen Amell who plays
Casey Jones. It is not that I think he is a bad actor, but he isn't
Casey Jones. He seems stiff and unresponsive to the rest of the cast, I
wasn't feeling that old Casey Jones appeal with his portrayal. Elias
Koteas encapsulated the essence of Casey in the very first live action
picking way back in the early 90's. It was his feverish, awkward charm
and humour that worked well with the lovable vigilante. Amell just
didn't portray that. He wasn't endearing enough - hopefully this may
change if they do number 3. 

Overall though, the movie is well worth a scope. Yes, it is ridiculous.
Yes, it cannot be taken seriously. Yes, it is about 4 mutant turtles
saving the world from a giant pink piece of hubba bubba. 

But it is the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. The movie itself does not
take its own self seriously. It is alive with humour, fast action,
gizmos and gadgets, sci-fi aliens and ships, April O' Neill, one liners
and all the turtling you can handle. 

It is a must see. I dare you not to enjoy it! A rare movie that fits
into the category of Sequel being better than Original. This should
have been the first movie in the rebooted franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of the heroes in a half-shell, I guess I'm just gonna have to
accept that this is about as good as this iteration of the Ninja
Turtles will get. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows is
better than its 2014 reboot, but only by a teeny bit.

Out of the Shadows finds the turtles trying to stop the evil Shredder
from bringing an alien from another dimension to Earth in order to take
over. Along the way, the turtles make a new ally in Casey Jones (played
likably by Stephen Amell), go toe-to-toe with two new mutant minions of
Shredder (the fan favorite characters Bebop and Rocksteady), and may
have run across a mutagen that could potentially turn them into humans.

There is a lot going on here and it's actually a miracle that the movie
makes sense for most of its runtime. While there are a few plot holes
here and there, there are none quite as gaping as the multiple ones
that the first movie had. On top of that, there are some genuinely
thrilling action sequences in the movie, with the standout one
involving the turtles in their tricked out garbage truck trying to stop
Shredder from escaping the 18-wheeler that is transporting him to a
different prison.

When it's all said and done, once the original Ninja Turtles theme song
plays over the end credits, you realize you actually had fun with Out
of the Shadows. While neither of the two movies in this particular
iteration match up to the first two Ninja Turtles movies from the
Nineties, Out of the Shadows will entertain.

I give Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows a 7 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
Okay. So we broke down and watched Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out
of the Shadows (2016), we didn't have high hopes in the beginning as
the trailer and of course the previous film; but we did give it a shot. 

Now before I begin this, I want to point out that I know it takes a ton
of work and a lot of people working to manage this type of films;
especially all of the cgi involved as most of this film is in green
screen with a ton of outsourcing to do all of the art to save funds;
and it shows in the film. Let's begin

We didn't go to the theaters to see Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out
of the Shadows (2016), for two reasons the first being we were way too
busy, and the second it wouldn't have held our attention as upon
watching it that was proved true. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of
the Shadows (2016) is not a bad film, it's fair; they just got
completely sidetracked trying to piece the real actor scenes in with
the created animated work that the glitches show so much it is hard to
watch. If I were around the age of 10, this film may have been more
enjoyable as it did have that cartoon vibe to it, and of course the
Turtle scenes was more like watching the intro videos and cinematic
within a video game.

As for the acting, well Megan Fox was put in the Jennifer's Body look
again to help keep the eyes on the screen as they spent a lot of time
putting her in outfits to keep that going on. Her acting was the same
as in every film; so much that you could tell if it were transformers,
Jennifer's Body, etc; but she did do well with what was going on. As
for the rest of the acting, it was so-so; Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles:
Out of the Shadows (2016) looks as if all the money went into the art
department, Megan Fox; and what was left went into putting the pieces
together to make a film.

The story itself, well.. Truthfully they did follow the basic Ninja
stories and there isn't quite much that could be done so of course it
was up to part; other than the many spots that the story just skips a
beat throwing in stuff that didn't belong or well you'll see if you
watch it.

For the hard work that went into the art department we give this film 3
stars
<|_=00=_|>
While I was really mix on the 2014 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Movie
because I grew up a fan of the series I got to say this movie did a lot
to make it up to the fans.I saw this one twice in theaters once in 3D

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out Of The Shadow really feels like the
classic cartoon coming to life on the big screen with The Turtles
returning along with the big screen debut of Krang, Rocksteady and
Bebop

It really felt like they wanted to make up for what happened in the
first movie and I have to say this one really gave us the feel and
thrill of what the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles are all about.

The action in the movie is pretty balance out and you won't be
disappointed they really took it up a notch with the fights.

The music in the movie really helps bring the story and the emotions
out because music is part of what makes a movie important otherwise
it's no fun.

The story of the film really works for fans of Turtles old and new they
made it work out for a win win for all generation of Turtle Fans. 

The acting is actually good the cast did their part to make the movie
work and did their best plus you can tell that they are fans of the
series even some of the cast said so which really is a plus in my book
you can feel the emotions from the characters that you grew up a fan
of. It really shows what emotions can do for a movie like the Turtles. 

Comedy in the movie is much better everyone in the theater were
laughing so hard and they actually clean up the comedy a bit to make it
more funny which helps from the last one.

This Turtles movie really redeem itself from it predecessor and being
that I saw it twice it was really worth the price of the ticket

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of The Shadows really deliver in more
ways than one and much improve sequel 

I give Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows an 9 out of 10
Heroes in a half shell Turtle Power!
