
Okay, I'm old school dude. Like Golden Age of Science Fiction old.
Maybe I'm too tolerant. But I'm not the only one! There is a lot of
slamming going on here. The truth is this isn't a bad movie. If you
want to be cynical then go right ahead and not enjoy yourself. This
isn't science fiction. It's fantasy. Most of the gripes I read are
legit. There are plenty of things that aren't scientifically correct.
The plot is a new twist on an ancient concept. It's a STORY. I like the
movie because it was fun to watch. Entertaining. And for a change, not
a shot was fired except for rockets. So cut it a little slack and go in
and be entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see the movie as an accompanying adult with my little sister
and her friends, who are all 13. The plot seemed promising at first. A
kid born on Mars, that's a cool take on Martians, right?. That was not
the case. About 30 minutes into the film, I started twitching in my
seat, about how little sense it all made. Got worse the more it went
on. In my opinion, it was a mediocre story built around a great initial
idea. I can't rant without spoiling, so I'll just say that the love
story is weak and develops too fast. The kids are supposed to be 16 in
the film, yet the 22+ looking Britt Robertson makes Asa Butterfield
look more 14 than 16. In my opinion, it's unrealistic and pointless to
see unless you are into a super super easy watch and won't get
disturbed by stuff like 3 inch thick see-through laptops 16 years into
the future; 16-year-olds crashing a plane into a building and jumping
off on the last minute before a great explosion like Bruce Willis in
Die Hard; half the movie being 16-year-olds making out and stealing
cars; and of course a super predictable ending.
<|_=00=_|>
Some of the reviews I have read must have come from those without a
beating heart. I finally took the time to watch this film as the
reviews were not great. I had an understanding it was a little sci-fi
and a lot teenage love story going in. I found the screenplay to be
brilliant by such young actors. I also understand there should be some
fantastic things in a movie that includes sci-fi so while some of what
the teenage couple set out to do seems unrealistic, it fits for what
story the director and writer were trying to give us. I wish more
adults could express the feelings this movie tries to tell us not to
hide, and to enjoy every moment of life that is afforded to us. I found
this movie not only heart warming but uplifting and inspiring. Thank
you for such a much need film of this type. It has been a while. Take
the fantastical with a grain of salt and pay attention to what it is
trying to share, we may just all benefit from that thought process
rather than the cynical one.
<|_=00=_|>
Is there anything more infuriating than people who know nothing about
science trying to make a film/write a book about science? It seems like
they didn't have a single person on board who knew anything about
ANYTHING. I'm not even a scientist and I could have come up with a
dozen ways to work around all these "issues" that were driving the
story onward.

This film is a plot hole after another plot hole, the most infuriating
part being that the whole story didn't need to happen.

!!!!!Here come the spoilers!!!!!!:

1. There's no way the mother would have passed the health checks while
being pregnant. They're pretty thorough. Not only that, she appeared to
be a good 5+ months pregnant when the mission started - absolutely no
way in hell no one would have realised (even discounting the vigorous
health checks).

2. WTF did they feed the newborn baby? The mother died, and I presume
no one thought to pack baby formula for the astronauts to drink.

3. They could have brought the child back when the mission was due to
return. First of all, 2/3 gravity isn't a big enough difference to even
on its own to cause irreparable damage. I'm certain they could have
helped get his body used to a higher gravity by exercising him and
making him wear weights or something. Even without all that, they could
have simply helped his body and his heart adjust to Earth's high
gravity by for example putting him in a freaking water tank, idk. There
are ways.

4. He (Gardner) has instantaneous communication with earth, and access
to the internet (and presumably everything it has to offer), he's
apparently a genius, and he was indeed raised among humans - even if
they were only "scientists", rather than "loving parents" who would
teach him all about life - yet somehow half the time he's acting like a
socially retarded 5-year-old who has never seen even a picture of
horse?! Uh-huh. This whole person-from-a-different-time-or-space-is-
overwhelmed-by-the-present thing has been done a million times before;
it's an old joke, and this time they failed massively.

5. Even though he's now old he could have still done the physical
therapy I mentioned earlier. Better late than never!

6. I love how in the beginning of the film they make a point to mention
that Earth's resources are pretty much depleted and all that jazz, but
then 16 years later they can afford to send a rocket to space just to
send a Martian and his father back home. You know how many resources it
takes to build a rocket and fuel it? Even if the rocket was part of a
mission that was already going there (conveniently leaving so soon
after Gardner nearly died), those seats are valuable, and there are no
spares.

Alas, that's not even all of it, but those are the biggest, most
glaring plot holes that drove me nuts due to the fact that they
rendered the whole film pointless.

And all this is ignoring the generally poor story line, shallow
character design, crappy writing, and mediocre acting. Ugh.
<|_=00=_|>
The screenplay mechanisms which lay out the overall story (space boy
wants to live on earth and meet up with pen-pal girl and unknown
father) are consistently forced, clunky, and a distraction to the point
of being groan-worthy. 

A little more behavioral (her portrayal of anger and angst, et al., was
over the top) and physiological realism (his repeated on-screen
sprinting, his bone-strengthening 'operation,' et al., were a joke)
would have given the story more credibility. All the casting, special
effect, locational ingredients were in place, but were wasted for the
lack of a believable and more seamless script. 

Films that fall considerably short like this make one realize how very
special those movies are that are able to put all the movie making
elements together and entertain the eye, heart, and intellect.

P.S. This movie will most certainly be viewed by and be appealing to
young impressionistic teens, and to the extent that the content of
movies seeps into their subconscious and affects future behavior, the
multiple carefree auto thefts with no consequence, and more
particularly the glorified attempted suicide-by-drowning scene at the
end were very poor, unnecessary, and irresponsible story-line choices.
<|_=00=_|>
You know how it goes. The boy (Asa Butterfield) meets the girl (Britt
Robertson), there's mutual liking and they want to meet... but there's
a space between them. So he will travel to Earth from the Mars colony
where he was born. 

Also starring: Gary Oldman, Carla Gugino, and B.D. Wong, because even
the coolest teenagers need some adults around.

"The Space Between Us" rides on the current wave of Young Adult, or YA
for short, novels and movies which has dowsed the cinemas for the last
ten years or so. 

It's still about romance, some sci-fi and action like the most of them
(or at least the most popular of them) but it brings some refreshing
changes to the menu.

It's based on an original screenplay and not novel. It offers sci-fi
and action without relying on done to death YA clich√©s (dystopian
society, dating or fighting supernatural beings, etc). It puts
characters in real danger so you can't always predict whether
everybody's gonna make it. It doesn't have clear-cut good and bad
guys...

And last but by far not least, the movie has a nice classic Steven
Spielberg-ian feel which puts the sense of wonder and adventure back to
sci-fi which, in my humble opinion, is often missing or buried under
all those visual effects and pizazz setpieces. 

Even good old Spielberg himself is not always able to pull it off: the
movie makes you actually care about the characters because there's a
real human backbone to the story. It's entertainment but it also has
heart.

All this rests very much on the lead man Asa Butterfield who was 18
during the filming and turns 20 this April. 

Former child star of "The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas", Scorsese's
"Hugo" and "Ender's Game" fame, this guy has grown to become a fine
young actor indeed. 

I very much enjoyed his soft but sure performance as an innocent and
fragile alien braving the world unknown to him. He has found a
seemingly perfect balance between strange, childlike and soulful that
the role asks of him, and I'd be glad to see him getting some awards or
nominations for this standout work. 

He even has this memorable, Pinocchio-ish appearance and style of
moving which seems suitable for a person not used to Earth's gravity.

The other characters stay more in the background, so this turns out to
be Asa Butterfield's show, and he more than fulfills the promise. 

The next most interesting performance comes from Oldman who ventures in
the land of brashness and theatricality, in a good way. The aging
thespian hasn't offered this kind of colorfulness for quite some time
(in a big movie, at least) and I enjoyed it to the point of feeling
that his character was underused. Holding him in the background makes
sense in the context of a whole story, though.

If you find my score surprisingly high, please remember that it's made
for a YA crowd, or at least a teenager in all of us. I would not
recommend it alongside 8 out of 10 movies made for older viewer groups.
Probably.

But 8 is not too generous. I liked "Space" very much and its overall
quality more than compensates a shallow story which surely would work
better longer. This could be a bona fide modern classic if the
characters and events had more room to develop and breathe. Maybe in
the form of (mini-)series or something.

If you like "The Space Between Us" and look for something similar to
watch, I would recommend 2014's "The Fault in Our Stars" for moving YA
story, or 2015's "Tomorrowland" as an uneven but good example of how to
combine sci-fi and action in a YA movie.

I choose to end this review with an off-topic anecdote which I just
happen to like very much:

Q: Why did astronaut leave his wife? A: He needed more space
<|_=00=_|>
This is basically a movie about two teenagers on the run. They meet for
the first time. The girl is streetwise and assertive. The boy is geeky
and naive. They drive off through an America with lots of great
scenery, and there's humour and romance and some feel good music. This
is what is at the heart of the movie and it works well.

What doesn't work well is the back story, about the boy being born on
mars. It makes for a pretty uneven film that starts out as a sci-fi
movie with a crew of astronauts heading out to the stars, then morphs
into something completely different. The special effects in space are
wasted, because this part of the story didn't really need to be shown.
Plus, some of the incidental music doesn't work too well.

The makers should've just stuck to the story of a lost boy who wanted
to see the world, and a girl who just didn't fit in and was willing to
show it to him.
<|_=00=_|>
I WANTED to love this movie. But this movie needed at least two
re-writes and they said no. The actors did their job but the story was
weak. And it was so Ham-handed with the romantic bull. I am really
angry in the sense that this will inspire Hollywood not to make scifi
movies -
<|_=00=_|>
It's very hard to find something new in the movies today, but this film
felt very fresh from everything else out there. The premise of the
story is very unique and different. The acting is very good. After a
shocking twist, the end turns out a little bit predictable but I didn't
really mind... at all. I really enjoyed watching this film. Totally
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't be confused, this is a teen romance picture. It's just that one
teen is from Earth, and the other is from Mars. I actually found it
very sweet. Mars boy without a clue, and Earth girl with all the
answers. Great acting, great direction, fantastic score. The special
effect were a bit dodgy. This film was was supposed to come out in
August, then pulled to December, and now it's released in February.
Please see this film!!! I found it very uplifting. The performances of
Asa Butterfield, Britt Robertson, Gary Oldman, Carla Gugino, and BD
Wong are fantastic. I have to keep writing because IMDb won't let a
review of anything less than 10 lines ling post. Did I mention this is
a kid friendly film? Thank you.
