
I've been to the premiere at the Film Festival in Zurich and I was
moved by the movie, not because of the love story, but because of the
irrefutable truth. The movie left me thinking and researching about its
topic: Colognia Dignidad, a cult in Santiago de Chile. It conjures many
ethical questions and portrays what humanity is capable of. The movie
grips and doesn't let go of you till the end. The contents is real,
except for the love story that forms the golden thread. One has to
imagine that the movie portrays the life and the ways of Colognia
Dignidad almost like a documentary without felt exaggeration, but it is
still a movie with a story. Superb acting by Emma Watson and Daniel
Brühl made the movie an even more intense experience. The only
criticism I can make is that the love story is average in comparison to
the rest. I believe that the characters actions don't always make much
sense. All in all, it's one of the best movies I've seen this year and
cannot be compared with the commercial films normally shown in cinemas.
<|_=00=_|>
When a German Diplomatic official attends the premiere in Toronto to
refute the premise of the film its a sign that the material strikes
pretty close to home.

Very memorable Q&A at the 2015 Tiff. Hats off to the director that
didn't flinch at all when confronting the questioner.

Its one of those films that you can honestly say "real life is stranger
than fiction"

Its obvious that the film makers used this convincing story to attract
the very talented cast. Even the despicable bad guys (and gal) were
very well cast in addition to our heroes. 

I'm glad this film wasn't released amidst the flurry of films prior to
the awards season. Everyone should take the time and let this material
and these performances sink in.

Well done. Good work.
<|_=00=_|>
Colonia was no simple thriller. This gripping movie stands perfectly as
a deconstructing look at the sickening evils that really happen in our
world. It stands as a great expose of the human mind and the sickening
things that we as people are capable of. It is a testament to mankind's
evil heart. Standing as an example of the ignorance and violence in
religion and cult life. Not only was this film revealing (and therefore
shocking) but it was also well written, and well casted, Emma Watson in
particular standing out as she usually does. The films director is also
a talented man who I hope to see more from in the future. A great
example of independent film, Colonia was gripping and kept me
interested all the way through. Would highly recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
A religious cult in Chile run by ex-Nazis?!? It may sound like a
bizarre work of fiction, but the location portrayed in the historical
drama "Colonia" (NR, 1:50) was all too real (except for the fictional
romance at the center of the film). But before I get into my plot
summary, I think that a little historical context is in order: In
September 1973, a U.S.-backed military coup wrested control of the
government of Chile from democratically-elected socialist president
Salvador Allende and placed power in the hands of army
commander-in-chief Augusto Pinochet. Under his 17-year rule, dissidents
were persecuted, arrested, kidnapped, deposed, tortured and murdered.
Pinochet's government used the remote Colonia Dignidad (Colony of
Dignity) as a place to torture and murder some of the regime's
political opponents. The public face of the colony was that of a
charitable and educational organization. It was actually a religious
cult where former Nazi medic Paul Schäfer imposed a strict Baptist
interpretation of the Bible on all of his followers, many of who had
emigrated with him from Germany. He forced them to live in dormitories
segregated by gender, and with parents separated from their children,
whom Schäfer sexually molested.

Daniel Brühl plays Daniel, a political activist from Germany who has
been living in Chile for a few months working with a group of young
people supporting President Allende. Daniel's girlfriend, Lena (Emma
Watson), is a flight attendant who takes advantage of her week-long
stopover in Santiago to spend time with Daniel. When a military coup
suddenly drives Allende from power, the new government starts rounding
up political dissidents, including Daniel  and Lena, who happens to be
with him when he's arrested. In a soccer stadium, a man wearing a black
hood identifies Allende supporters, including Daniel, who is whisked
away in a van. Lena is able to trace the markings on the vehicle to the
secretive and remote "Colonia Dignidad" compound, about 200 miles south
of Santiago. She makes her way there and asks to join. "I want to know
the way of the Lord," she says, wearing a small cross around her neck.

In her attempt to rescue her lost love, Lena is sacrificing her freedom
 and putting her very life at risk. A harsh old woman named Gisela
(Richenda Carey) takes her to meet the cult's leader, German expatriate
and lay preacher Paul Schäfer (Michael Nyqvist). "Once you join us, you
must remain," explains Schäfer. Lena agrees, in spite of observing his
Christian fanaticism and some of his innate creepiness. Gisela relieves
Lena of the small bag she had brought with her, gives her a few items
including a set of linen, and assigns her a bed in the female
dormitory. Most of the women show no interest in talking to the new
arrival, but Lena befriends another young woman named Doro (Jeanne
Werner) and, later, another named Ursel (Vicky Krieps). As Lena joins
the women in their daily work in the fields and in other food
preparation activities, she learns what she can about the camp and
keeps her eyes peeled for Daniel.

Daniel has survived severe physical abuse at the hands of the Chilean
secret police in the colony's subterranean torture chamber, but he is a
bit worse for the wear. Besides his physical injuries, his speech is
slurred and he now talks and acts like a child. Lena finally catches
sight of Daniel when she steals a glance through the window of the
colony's assembly hall during a men's meeting and is obviously
concerned about his state of mind. Soon after, at a rare meeting with
the cult's men and women all together, Lena takes the risk of
approaching Daniel, hoping that the two of them can come up with a plan
to escape the cult, something no one has done before. But there's much
more at stake than "just" the fate of two young lovers. Besides the
terrible ways that Schäfer uses and abuses his followers, it turns out
that he's also into some other nasty business that further reduces even
the slim chance that Daniel and Lena have to get away for good.

"Colonia" takes a little-known chapter in history and spins it into an
interesting and entertaining tale of romance and danger. The story is
perhaps best understood as a combination of "The Boys from Brazil", M.
Night Shyamalan's "The Village" and Ben Affleck's Oscar-winning "Argo"
if you can imagine that. This film's unusual setting contributes to its
originality, as does telling a story in which it's the woman who comes
to rescue the man. The actors are well cast, and this accomplished
multi-national ensemble consistently offers up lived-in performances.
The direction, by Florian Gallenberger (who won an Oscar for his 2000
live action short film "I Want to Be"), sometimes feels a little
disjointed, but he mostly keeps things moving and builds some serious
tension into the movie's plot. The script (co-written by Torsten Wenzel
and Gallenberger) is creative and smart. There may not be much actual
dignity in the Colonia Dignidad compound, but this film dignifies
itself with some quality story-telling. "A-"
<|_=00=_|>
I was holding my breath from beginning to end. This movie is so
exciting from the minute it starts a real thriller with a damn good
story. I enjoyed it and definitely recommend watching it. It really is
worth your time and chapeau to Emma for this performance! Also it is a
real eyeopener that there is so much going on in the world that we (I)
am not aware of. The way they portrait it in this movie is just
excellent without over doing it. The actor Daniel also is really really
good his performance is magnificent. I think there should be a lot more
movies with the purpose to make people aware of what is going on in
this film. It is definitely not boring in the slightest way and you
wont regret watching it!
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of two German citizens who are in Chile under
Pinochet dictatorship. They get locked up in a camp of a religious
sect, and get mistreated, abused and tortured. 

The story is super engaging, keeping me glued to the screen from start
to finish! I applaud Lena's courage to go into the camp just to see her
boyfriend, though it can also be argued that it is the silliest thing
to do. It shows that love is blind, and rational decision is clouded by
love. The conditions in the camp is horrible, made worse by the wicked
headmaster who wrongly uses religion to control and abuse people. There
is one scene that vaguely suggests sexual abuse, but it is so vague
that I had doubts until the words appear at the end of the film.

The ending is super intense. I find myself grabbing onto my chair,
leaning forward and simply hoping that things will work out. The
desperation of the characters transmit through the screen to me, and I
just hope so sincerely that they will make it.

I didn't expect such an intense adventure. I enjoyed watching
'Colonial" thoroughly.
<|_=00=_|>
The film attempts to spin a thriller story inside the larger and more
important history of Colonia Dignidad, a torture, rape and death place
run like a religious cult by a pedophile Nazi ex-nurse preacher in
collaboration with both the Chilean and German authorities. It sounds
corny, yet it's true. Before and during the brutal military
dictatorship of Pinochet in Chile, this guy ran the colony for 33
years, only being accused, then running away, then being caught and
convicted... at 84 years old, much too late for anything. His right
hand man is still living in Germany, close to his many victims that
returned home, because the German constitution forbids deportation of
its citizens.

The movie depicts the horrors inside in typical American fashion,
focusing on what restricts personal liberty and rights, but shying away
from actual physical blood violence or nakedness. The scene where
Schaefer enters the shower of the young boys and starts undressing for
a full second was comically reminiscent of the old movies when people
kissed and then there got up from the bed a scene later.

Even so, the psychical and emotional torture is shown quite readily,
shocking the viewer into asking: how is this even possible? Just look
it up: cults sprout all over the place with millions and even billions
of people happy to partake in whatever horrible fairy tale psychopaths
can imagine, as long as they don't feel responsible.

As a movie, though, the film fails in several directions. Many have
said that the characters weren't sufficiently developed. The movie was
not about the characters, but about the colony, so no, I don't agree.
However many dramatic moments seemed crafted specifically for the
movie, especially towards the ending. As such, I believe the biggest
sin of the film was not deciding from the get go what it wanted to be.
We spend the last twenty minutes of this almost two hour movie trying
to develop empathy towards the characters that were neglected until
then, while the epilogue is the lazy text over saying what happened -
or more like not happened - to the people involved.

To the question about the reality of the story, the romantic story of
the two is fantasy, while the things inside the colony are likely worst
than how they have been portrayed. Strangely enough, while the movie
made this horror more visible, to actually find well documented
articles about it has become more difficult, as many are talking about
the film rather than reality.

Bottom line: solid acting, horrible reality, kind of bland adaptation.
A movie certainly worth seeing, but not a fun one at all. To be
recommended at least for making this visible to large audiences.
<|_=00=_|>
Inspired by true events, Colonia is a Hollywood-style thriller about a
couple who finds themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time- the
torture prison of a religious cult under the influence of the Chilean
secret police in 1974. At a time when Chilean youth began
revolutionizing in the streets, one man's involvement with the movement
along with his girlfriend's association in his anti-government views
causes the couple to put their relationship and love for each other to
the test. Directed by Academy Award winner Florian Gallenberger
(Shadows of War), Colonia opens in theaters Friday, April 15th. Bill
Withers' "Ain't No Sunshine" accompanies archival footage of protesters
rioting in the streets while the film itself is saturated in prime
colors- magenta and royal blue. This juxtaposition of violence and R&B
gives an artistic edge to the film's opening scenes, but unfortunately,
this visual isn't sustained throughout the film. We meet our
protagonist Daniel (Daniel Brühl), up on stage pumping up the masses of
people, when, out of nowhere, he spots a bright yellow flight
attendant's outfit (like a ray of Mr. Withers' sunshine) from the muted
colors of the crowd. The woman is Lena (Emma Watson) and they
immediately embrace. Their relationship isn't made entirely clear, but
she only has four days in town and they plan on spending it together.

While enjoying their time together, Daniel receives a phone call that
shifts the political tide and changes everything. This results in chaos
erupting in the streets, leading to their capture by the Chilean
soldiers. Daniel gets abducted and taken to a hidden cult in a rural
area called Colonia Dignidad, run by ex-Nazi Paul Schäfer (Michael
Nyqvist). Left with no other choice, Lena willfully joins the Colonia
as a desperate, last-ditch effort to find her boyfriend, risking her
own life to bring him home as she discovers that those who enter the
cult never leave.

Emma Watson and Daniel Brühl play Lena and Daniel with an innocence
about them that has you rooting for their success. Watson is
unquestionably beautiful and smart, her outspokenness gets her into
trouble. Brühl takes a more unconventional risk with his character by
playing the role of a mentally challenged person in an effort to trick
his captors into thinking he is not a threat. Watson and Brühl are
crucial to the film's success, but individually speaking, these roles
won't likely result in a significant boost to their careers.

Colonia can't escape the comparisons to Eli Roth's The Sacrament or the
documentary Kidnapped for Christ (if you haven't seen it, it's
available to stream on Netflix, and is a MUST- watch), which may hurt
Colonia's overall success because it is not as riveting by comparison.
Audiences know what they are getting with an Eli Roth film, and a
documentary has its own sense of wonderment, but Colonia tends to jump
from the political thriller to love story to religious brainwashing in
a patchwork way that feels a bit all over the place, and it is this
"clumpy" genre blending that may be the film's weakest point. Plus,
Daniel and Lena's relationship is never fully established in the
beginning of the film, so we are left to wonder why she would risk her
life to save this person.

At its core, Colonia is an interesting story, but not a very memorable
film. It doesn't provide enough tension to overshadow The Sacrament,
nor does it have the foundation to be a solid romance. The fact that it
is based on a true story is what keeps the film afloat and the
inclusion the smuggled archival photos of the real Colonia Dignidad at
the end is a much-needed gem. Yet, even with cinema-savvy actors Emma
Watson and Daniel Brühl, Colonia can't quite seem to gain the traction
needed to be a standout film.

For more, visit: www.cinemacy.com
<|_=00=_|>
I loved it. It really worth's your time!!! Great cast!Really emotional
and at the same time extremely shocking! What those people got through
is really admirable. They believed, they tried, they succeed. Even
though I got really frustrated that those awful people had not been
punished appropriate, I am glad that at last someone did something to
stop them. The corruption of that time is unbelievably similar to our
time. The only difference is that now, it seems to be a more honorable
corruption, known by everyone, legal at this point of view, very well
hidden and at the same time we supposed to be more civilized. We just
hide this madness better.This movie shows as that corruption exists
everywhere, even in embassies. Don't miss it!!
<|_=00=_|>
Stumbled across this title. Looked interesting. Gave it a shot and was
pleased with what I watched. Not knowing a single thing about the movie
or the real history behind it, I went into this thinking it was going
to be about something totally different. I was even surprised when at
the beginning I saw the name "Emma Watson". I knew good things were
gonna happen. So as it unfolded, I thought it was gonna be some
political thriller where the boyfriend gets kidnapped by the army goons
and then he has to escape. Imagine my surprise when it took a turn to
Chilean/Deutschland Jonestown!!! Didn't see that coming! The old hag
nazi b!tch was excellent. You just knew right away that you wanted her
to get clubbed over the head with a blunt object. Thanks Emma for
granting my wish. I didn't care for the love story, but it drove the
film. Anyhow, I don't want to give anything away, just suffice to say -
this is worth your time watching!
