
Usually, fart jokes are associated with bad raunchy comedies in the
likes of Adam Sandler's recent career, or really uncreative family
movies. Insert, 'Swiss Army Man'  the Sundance title that's generated
the most vocal reaction amongst festival goers for it's ridiculous, now
infamous, farting dead body played by Daniel Radcliffe. This is only
how the film begins, and let's just say it toots even louder from
there.

Paul Dano plays Hank, a man lost on an island. Right when he's about to
give up on life, he discovers the aforementioned farting body and finds
an unexpected answer to why his life is worth living. He discovers that
many elements of this body can help him survive and find a way back
home, and keeps himself sane (or perhaps insane) by talking to it.

The writer/director duo Dan Kwan and Daniel Scheinert, collectively
known as "the Daniels", have a reputation for ridiculous and highly
entertaining short films and music videos, and this feature represents
a conglomerate of numerous ideas that sound bad yet somehow all work.
As Hank develops a relationship with the dead body (one that starts out
similar to Wilson in Cast Away), the intriguing absurdity keeps you
engaged for the rest of the film. This is the type of film best seen
with little information beyond the initial premise, as it is full of
mystery boxes waiting to be unraveled. Thanks to the great use of
locations and production design, the world- building is fantastic and
the wackiness becomes downright fun.

On top of being a silly movie that doesn't pretend to take itself
seriously, 'Swiss Army Man' sneaks in themes of societal behavior and
what is considered weird vs. what is normal. It's rare to find a movie
that is so unpredictable in an engaging way, and because the movie
begins with something so ridiculous and only goes deeper from there, it
allows for limitless ideas on what is going to happen next and
continues to be fun to watch. The reason the film may be polarizing is
because of how silly it all is, but going in knowing it will be this
way is all you need to jump in and enjoy the show. There is little more
to say without giving too much away  essentially, if you can accept
absurdity and be along for the ride, this movie may just sneak up and
treat you to a great time overall.

For more, visit: www.cinemacy.com
<|_=00=_|>
The Jury Prize for Best Directing caused more than a few controversies
at this year's Sundance Film Festival with some audience members
walking out, while others complained about the film's uncouth behavior.
What might get lost in the mix is how impressively this unique and
uncompromised debut feature can be seen through completely opposite
lenses.

One way of responding to SWiSS ARMY MAN could be to contagiously laugh
at the screwball actions of Hank (Paul Dano), a man stranded on a
desert island with a dead body (Daniel Radcliffe). Another way would be
to question Hank's reliability as a narrator and view this surreal,
spiritual spiral as an existential journey into complete madness.
Either way, Daniel Radcliffe's performance as a dead body is the kind
of profound achievement you might expect from a Harold Pinter or Samuel
Beckett play.

Swiss Army Man is not just the most infamous film at Sundance this
year; It is the perfect Hollywood calling card for first time
filmmakers Dan Kwan and Daniel Scheinart, as well as being a completely
neo-sincere film. Movie lovers should put aside all of its buzz and
just experience it for themselves. Love it or hate it, it's one film
from 2016 that most definitely will not be forgotten.

Review taken from 2016 Sundance Film Festival wrap up.
<|_=00=_|>
"If my best friend hides his farts from me then what else is he hiding
from me, and why does that make me feel so alone?"

Never would I expect a farting talking corpse would've turn out to be a
good movie. Even on paper, this idea sounds awful, but it's one of
those things that manages to work out. I always hear people complain
that movies just ain't that original anymore, with the endless reboots
and the unnecessary squeals. And then you get something like this
that's so different. Something so bizarre, weird and original that it's
executed in a way that it actually works as a movie.

There's something deeply beautiful and very relatable about "Swiss Army
Man" that I know a lot of people won't agree. It isn't for everybody. I
mean, just look at the reviews for Sundance and the reports of walk
outs during the movie. But then again, what do they know.

Daniel Scheinert & Daniel Kwan bring a sweet and a very surreal study
of the human condition that's done so uniquely. Making farts jokes seem
so poetic.

This is Daniel Radcliffe at his best and while he's character may be
dead, there's still heart within him. Paul Dano who really has been
impressing me over the past years is really great in this. Radcliffe
and Dano brought a sense of friendship and a real chemistry that after
awhile it kinda over shadows the wackiness of whats going on. Some
people may find the scenes between them too disturbing or creepy, and I
can totally understand that. But it's something that's hard to explain
really. Even if you try to put together why something like this worked,
but it never fully clicks in your head as the correct answer. Well,
what can I say. Movies make you feel something man. 

Overall rating: I'm no gonna lie, I teared up a bit while watching
this. Yes, a farting corpse movie actually made laugh, cry and think
differently on things. 

WOW.
<|_=00=_|>
When you look up the word 'original' in your dictionary, you might find
a poster of SWISS ARMY MAN next to the definition. This is simply the
best movie of 2016 in my book. It's outrageous, it's visionary, it's
full of humor and heart. To those of you who often complain that
there's nothing original to watch in theaters anymore,
writing/directing team Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert have come to
the rescue.

Paul Dano plays Hank, stranded on a deserted island, about to commit
suicide because to him, all hope is lost. And suddenly he sees a corpse
named Manny (Daniel Radcliffe) who changes everything. Hank is
determined to use his new multipurpose friend to go on an epic
adventure that Hank hopes would bring him back to the woman of his
dreams.

Brought to you by the guys behind "Turn Down For What" video, SWISS
ARMY MAN is what happens when you let filmmakers run wild with their
active imagination. It's a story about a man scared to take chances on
love and life until a dead man who farts a lot has to show him how much
fun letting loose and taking chances can be despite the outcome.
Writing/directing team, simply known as DANIELS, pack this film with
all kinds of surprises, like one of those nesting dolls, just when you
thought you've seen what Manny can do, he can do another thing and
another and it doesn't stop. And I'd like to see it as DANIELS
channeling their limitless creativity through Dano's character, Hank,
because Hank is the one who's got the skills to utilize Manny in order
to create something that's either fun or simply useful.

Never have I seen a movie that celebrates farting as much as this. Some
might dismiss SWISS ARMY MAN as absurd but this film wears absurdity
proudly like a badge of honor. And to me the fart jokes and the corpse
jokes, the erection jokes, they even have Jurassic Park jokes, are all
just the vehicle that drives this friendship story. You have one
character who's dead inside, and one character who's literally dead,
interacting in a way that looks insane to some, but DANIELS crafted in
a way that makes Hank and the audiences feel hopeful at the end. So
this ain't some kind of "Weekend At Bernie's" long lost cousin. Paul
Dano and Daniel Radcliffe fully immerse themselves in DANIELS' vision,
although I'm sure at first they may have had trouble imagining what
they read on the script. But the commitment of those two actors is
evident on screen, they don't hold back. Accompanied by fantastic and
super catchy score/soundtrack, SWISS ARMY MAN is a cinematic
celebration that you can't get enough of. Bound to be a favorite to
many; bound to be an instant classic.

-- Rama's Screen --
<|_=00=_|>
Like abnormal? See this. Like intelligent? See this. Like funny. SEE
THIS! Swiss Army Mans diversity was not only noticeable but its
strangeness was not only quirky but hilarious. This is easily the best
comedy of 2016. It has Daniel Radcliffe who was perfect for Manny, and
Paul Dano who was also perfect for Hank. I swear there is no way of
telling this is Daniels first film from the perfected direction and
writing. The humor has funny build up and is really farcical. I think
this film did everything correctly with how it wanted to do it. I
recommend this to film goers who like strange but intact.

11/10 Golden Potato
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was truly beautiful. Don't get scared of the dead body and
farts, stick with it until the end. It contains beautiful scenes of
friendship and love and acceptance of all human beings. Really teaches
you about a deeper mening about life. The desperation of being unloved
and all alone, and the lengths we go to fight it and find some deeper
mening in life. It's not just about action and saving the girl,
sometimes you just have to find the one person in life willing to
accept you for you. Perfect movie for the society of today, where so
many suffer from depression and loneliness that could be cured if
someone would just be willing to take the time to accept weirdness. 

Its a perfect mixture of humor and seriousness. If you don't appreciate
it, you should probably watch it again. It truly moved my heart.
Weirdest best movie I've seen. 

Truly beautiful.
<|_=00=_|>
Some people will love this film and some people will hate it. I can see
both sides of this argument & I'm not going to try and persuade anyone
to watch it or avoid it. This is just a few of my thoughts on why I
personally didn't like it.

The film just didn't connect with me, it started off reasonably well as
we are introduced to the two characters but after that it becomes a
real slog which is seemingly going nowhere. We have constant fart &
boner jokes and not much else. Then we have them moving from one place
to another and going over the same jokes again which to me just wasn't
funny. I didn't laugh once throughout the film.

Although the film is undoubtedly unique, it just doesn't work for me as
I felt no emotional attachment to either of the characters and at times
I was utterly lost as to what the film was actually trying to be. The
performances of Dano & Radcliffe were fine but for a film described as
'Adventure, Comedy, Drama' it was lacking in all 3 aspects. The whole
soundtrack with the two characters singing parts of it was also pretty
annoying.

After an hour I had lost all interest and simply didn't care how it was
going to end. So the film is obviously not for me but I can appreciate
some parts of it and people with different taste will like it and
that's fine. 

4/10, didn't like it but it had two good lead performances and at least
tried to be original. I feel this could've worked better as a short
film or maybe TV mini series.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I would like to clarify that I am a movie lover. I watch
everything, from utter crap, like Adam Sadler movies, or Will Ferrell
to the "deepest" and most challenging or provoking movies. I consider
myself intelligent enough to grasp a concept or two. 

Having said that, this movie was one of the worst wastes of time I have
ever experienced. I stayed with it, till the end, so that I can have a
valid and grounded opinion. I really expected something that would
change my opinion towards the end, but this "something" never came. 

This movie is rubbish. I have not read a single review (looked at 10-20
of them) that can actually justify what the heck this movie is about.
The only thing that I read constantly is how much of a masterpiece this
movie is and how it handles serious issues etc. What are those issues?
Does anyone care to elaborate? Or is this one of these movies that
conveniently has a thousand hidden messages that can be interpreted in
a million ways? Well, I have news for you. You can look at literally
any movie like that. Even Fast and the Furious...! 

This movie is apparently about a Nekrophile, that somehow finds a body
that is washed ashore and "adopts" it. He is ready to commit suicide or
something and then he discovers the body and starts to interact and
talk with it, forming some kind of a bond that even results to them
kissing! At some point, he actually put a cork in the body's bottom, to
keep water inside so that he can drink out of it (or some other
elaborate metaphor, too difficult for my simple mind). Lots of "clever"
metaphors here and there, that should make you think about death and
life and how some things we pay attention to really don't matter, etc. 

In the end, as it turns out, although the guy seems to be taking some
journey to return home after being hypothetically stranded somewhere,
he was actually in a creek behind a residential area the entire time.
Wow! Didn't see that one coming! And he's some kind of a lunatic or
bipolar or I don't know what. In the end, Radcliff, disappears into the
sea, farting his way in its blue vastness. Should have turned the DVD
player off as soon as he did the same thing in the beginning of the
movie. 

Don't waste your time!
<|_=00=_|>
One of the most insanely creative and original film ever. Its often
strange with crude humour about farting corpses and boners, but there
certainly is a deeper meaning to it rather than being crudeness for the
sake of it. 

This film is truly a magical experience that dares to defy conventions.
Its a thought provoking film that would make you question our
conventions and need to be normal while exploring loneliness. With
beautiful cinematography, powerful performances by Paul Dano and Daniel
Radcliffe, well paced with an excellent soundtrack this certainly is my
favourite film of the year (so far). 

Its certainly not everyone, it wouldn't be surprising if most people
dismissed it saying 'What the hell'. Certainly recommended if you are
into quirky, offbeat and creative films.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
If you watched the trailer for this film, you're probably aware that
it's going to be pretty weird. Though you never expect it to be this
weird.

The uniquely and refreshingly strange tone is established right away.
Paul Dano plays Hank, a young man who is stuck on an island about to
commit suicide when he sees a dead body (Daniel Radcliffe) washed up on
shore. Long story short, he discovers that this corpse has special
abilities. It can satiate his thirst, chop wood in half, spit bullets
out of its mouth, among other things. Soon, the body starts to talk.

For almost the entirety of the movie we're trying to figure out if Dano
is simply hallucinating or if the corpse really is coming to life. Many
details are left for the imagination. But they don't even really
matter.

Much of the film is spent with Dano teaching Radcliffe about the world
and how amazing it is. Yet Dano becomes conflicted as this is the same
world he was trying to leave. Radcliffe has already left and wants to
be back in it. They're passing each other going in opposite directions.

The filmmakers never have an issue keeping the surreal tone of the
movie. The only problem comes in the end where it seems as though,
unsure of where to wrap things up, it strays a little and becomes
slightly disjointed.

Even if you think you know where the story is going, you never do.
That's what makes it so great. It gives you what you could never ever
expect. There are times it gets almost too weird--even for this
film--but then again, there's nothing like it, so what do we really
compare it to?

It's never the weirdness that makes you not like the film. If anything,
it could be the fact that it never truly says what it means to--or
wants to. But in a universe so loose and free, you sort of have to be
able to read between the lines.

Twizard Rating: 95
