
Don't let ANYONE spoil you ANYTHING about the film.

Don't see the trailer when it comes out.

Avoid clips and any promo materials they may release in the future.

Go in knowing as little as possible.

Just know that watching Green Room is like getting a shot of adrenaline
that doesn't let up until the very end.

It's fantastic, tense, and entertaining.

Take my word for it.

But also...

Don't get too caught up in the hype.

See the film when it comes out.

You'll be glad you did.

P.S. Jeremy Saulnier is definitely someone to look out for.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, want to say R.I.P Anton Yelchin. Such a tragedy for someone
so young and promising to pass. He was incredible in this, I felt he
was really coming into his own as an actor. --- After watching
Saulnier's excellent and understated Blue Ruin, the director
immediately became one to watch out for. A director that knows how to
direct characters with subtlety and nuance, but with intensity and
brutality as well. 

Green Room is perhaps the most stressed out I've ever been watching a
film, and if I'm not clear, that's actually a good thing. Few films
ever get such a visceral reaction out of me, but Green Room managed to
do that, and then some, delivering on many fronts as a contender for my
favorite film of the year. Since the beginning of the year, A24 has
been unstoppable, putting out some of the most unique and incredible
genre movies to be released in quite some time.

Green Room is certainly violent and grim. Its sense of dread and
brutality is unending and relentless, yet never overstays its welcome
or becomes cartoonish or fetishistic. It could've very easily gone into
Saw, Hostel or Martyrs territory, letting the bloodshed become the most
memorable aspect of the experience, but it did something much more. Not
only does the brutality feel real and impactful, unlike the
aforementioned films, the characters feel totally believable and
genuine, completely immersed in their roles. The protagonists are naive
and brash, yet fresh and relatable delinquents. The antagonists are
subdued, quiet and strategic, yet animalistic and complex. From a
character standpoint, it is such a welcome and ultimately more human
change of pace.

For a movie so steeped in violence, it's a very humanistic movie,
filled with rich and complex characters that feel like they're apart of
something completely real and also very intimate and small-scale. The
story is not a black and white 'good vs evil' kind of thing, all
characters have their own shortcomings and sympathetic sides, making
for an incredibly dynamic cast. It's a debilitatingly horrifying film,
yet done with the same amount of care and understatement as Blue Ruin.
It's a white knuckle thrillfest, and one that pits a lump in your
stomach from the intensity witnessed on screen.
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen some crazy violent films from cannibal holocaust to a
Serbian film but no other film that comes to mind executes violence as
un settling as this. For me I mean this in a positive way for others
the violence could be the very thing to turn them off to it and
possibly ruin the movie. May this be a forewarning for some and a
recommendation for those who might be interested.

To start with the usual things to look at as far as acting and writing
I would say this film does an excellent job. The acting from all is
believable and extremely convincing. The writing is good with some
humor and plenty of good dialogue. What the film masters completely is
tension. Jeremy has truly shown his talent as a director with this one.
The tension and situations that spawn violence are all very believable
and realistic only adding to the tension and overall tone. Speaking of
tone they set it incredibly well with one of the first acts of violence
which will stick with me for a long long time. 

Funny thing about this movie is that it's considered a thriller. What I
mean by funny is that as a thriller (which it really is) it is more
chilling and horrifying than most if not all the other horror movies
I've seen recently. There are jump scares but they're done properly.
This isn't a scary due to monsters and ghouls though, it's scary
because of how realistic and effective the violence is to where it
really sticks with you.

As you probably already know this is a film best going in knowing
little to nothing to get the full experience, personally I went in
knowing more than I should have, however, it didn't matter. I was on
the edge of my seat with sweaty palms due to how tense and
unpredictable it is. There is a lot to talk about with this film but a
lot of it cant be discussed without spoilers so all I can say is see it
yourself. If you can't handle violence then I am strongly telling you
to avoid this film. On the other hand this is among the best films I've
seen this year no doubt. As a display of well executed violence and
tension this film will definitely make a name for itself. I hope this
is useful thanks for reading and I hope you enjoy the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
A punk band made up of poor friends tours in a broken van, playing
their songs at hole-in-the-wall places. They unknowingly are sent to
play a gig at a neo-nazi commune. It goes "OK" until they accidentally
enter a room where a girl has just been murdered, and are locked inside
by the neo-Nazis. A mostly-enclosed game of cat- and-mouse ensues
between the band members and the skinheads. 

I liked so many things about this film, I will probably forget to
mention half of them. The slow beginning which really lets you get a
feel for the characters, the progression into an enclosed-location
movie for a lot of its running time (I love one-location movies), the
"opening a can of worms" moment that just makes everything descend into
chaos, and the very funny one-liners which are fortunately very
infrequent so they don't hinder the serious mood one bit (quality over
quantity). It tried to circumvent some genre conventions and
expectations, while still staying true to itself, with thrill scene
after thrill scene. It was just flat out entertaining but also very
well-made, with unconventional editing between scenes, very interesting
sound design, and amazing acting by every cast member. They were all so
likable!

I can't really complain about anything on display here, just see this
film, it deserves it.
<|_=00=_|>
A punk rock band is brought into playing at skinhead club. After their
set, whilst hey are leaving the club, by mistake they end up in the
wrong room and witness a murder. Tension rises between the club
managers and the band who are forced into a room and trapped in there
whilst Darcy (Patrick Stewart), the head of the skinhead fellowship as
well as the owner of the club, tries to put together a plan before
things go too south.

Written and directed by one of the most promising rising directors of
this time, Jeremy Saulnier, "Green Room" is one of those perfectly
packaged thrillers, with originality of premise and style, perfect
pacing and tight well-knit editing and whilst it may be a little
chaotic it never looses the investment in character.

One of the big surprises of 2016, after all the buzz I simply couldn't
wait to check this movie out, its intriguing premise and unique cast
were fascinating and I can confidently say that the film delivers on
both.

Whilst we have had many thrillers in the past where people get locked
into a room and have to find a way to escape, we haven't yet had one
with this unique voice behind it. Saulnier manages to spin around with
the premise and deliver a thriller that is stylish without being noisy
or overdone. The catalyst of the whole plot works perfectly and the
characters who are set up brilliantly in the first ten minutes work
wonderfully in this environment.

The instant world building the director manages to convey through
visuals is absorbing, it places the viewer right in the middle of the
chaos and manages to never loose the geography of the setting. The
cinematography of the film early on delivers some beautiful and
insightful shots that perfectly serve the story and set up, but once
sh*t starts hitting the fan the editing of the film comes majorly into
play and does a superb job. The tense atmosphere conveyed through color
and pace never leaves the screen and pervades the audience in every
second of the movie until the end.

Just as deserving is definitely the make up department which has a
couple of really key moments that hit the viewer like a brick and
contribute in giving a sense of anxiety and fear that once again is
appended to the audience for the whole duration. Ultimately it also
comes down to the three central performances by Yelchin, Poots and
Stewart, whom are all remarkably great, the highlight definitely being
Poots for me who manages to totally disappear in the role to the point
that I didn't know she was in the film until I read the cast list. I
have been a big supporter of her and can't wait to see what she gives
us in the future.

Where the movie slightly looses its flow is in clarity of motivations
and the logistical movements where I found myself repeatedly uncertain.
As I said before, you never loose the thrill nor the location and
empathy for the characters, you are always behind them and want them to
get the fu*k out of that hell. The problem resides in the fact that too
many times I was unclear on why what was happening was happening, why
were the skinheads acting the way they were and why were they going
batsh*t crazy. This also takes something away from Stewart's
performance which on its own stands as great, yet never really plays
into the big picture because of the chaos which ensues not being ever
understandable by the audience.

"Green Room" still remains a more than worthy effort, a great thriller,
a fantastic lesson in editing and a magnificent does of anxiety and
adrenaline.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Jeremy Saulnier exercises high pressure suspense and
astonishing realism in this white-knuckle thriller following his
surprising success with the ultra-violent 'Blue Ruins'. Though it
doesn't fall deep in the category of originality or even groundbreaking
in any sense, the intriguing fashion in which Saulnier executes this
film and the immersive cinematography by Sean Porter used to capture
the harrowing intensity and gloomy visuals result in a highly effective
slasher treat; and even labeling the results effective feels like an
understatement. While the shocking level of bloody violence and gore
more than not make this tough sit-through, especially for the weak
stomach; Saulnier pervades a true sense of realism in a way in which
the film never feels exploitative, but wildly authentic. So this film
follows a punk rock band consisting of twenty-something year olds
including lead singer Tiger (played by Callum Turner), guitarist Sam
(played by Alia Shawkat), bassist Pat (played by Anton Yelchin), and
drummer Reece (played by Joe Cole). When the band is offered a gig by a
radio host named Tad, they find themselves performing at nowhere other
than an old bar run by neo-Nazi skinheads. After a successful
performance, the band and their friend Amber (played by Imogen Poots)
rushes out to their green room where they witness a murder by the hands
of a sadistic skinhead. In fear of being held responsible for the
murders, skinhead leader Darcy Banker (played by Patrick Stewart)
arrives an orders his gangs to eliminate the witnesses, leading the
band to a bloody fight for survival. 

Jeremy Saulnier grants this intensely violent thriller with a gift to
not only leave viewers shocked and squirming in their seats, but
present an atmosphere so visceral to the point of giving viewers the
feeling of not watching a gruesome slasher, but a real-life event
unfolding on camera; and the scariest aspect of this film how brutally
realistic it turns out on screen. Saulnier does such an amazing job on
capturing the brutal intensity of each moment as the characters
desperately battle their way through a violent bloodbath against a gang
of white supremacists that threaten their young lives, and the camera
work done by Sean Porter makes for great use to capture these dreadful
moments. At various moments, the film intensifies to the point where
you may constantly remind have to yourself you are not trapped inside
the bar with the characters. While Saulnier's execution and Sean
Porter's cinematography do justice, they only make up the half of the
equation. The latter half is successfully achieved by Saulnier's
screenplay. Instead of relying on the usual slasher horror stereotypes
like the jock, the pot smoker, or the hot chick, Saulnier populated the
film with characters that feel very believable and the dialogue these
characters deliver more often than not feels typical to real-life
college kids, thus adding to the insane realism. While the performances
the actors are decent, the biggest stand out by far is Patrick Stewart,
suiting the role of the main antagonist. Stewart gives a truly haunting
performance as what is a major departure from his usual typecast.
Though his character is limited to do nothing but giving orders, the
portrayal Stewart lands as this character truly hits hard.

Green Room is an exhilarating slasher-horror thriller with a constant
sense of fright and thrills, making it one of the most spine-chilling
horror films to be released in recent years. Though the extreme violent
and realistic depiction of gore can may make this one a difficult
sit-through, it is a must-see for all horror fans.
<|_=00=_|>
It's safe to say that you couldn't ruin the plot for this film, as
there isn't much of one. If you read the IMDb summary that is pretty
much it with a bit of violence.

The characters are one dimensonal, uninteresting, you can't but not
really care as they are stabbed, shot or eaten by dogs.

The violence is a bit pointless as it isn't combined with a strong
script or a few plot twists. With no interesting dialogue between the
protagonists your left watch a group of uninteresting boring people
butcher each other. In the end the film is predictable, conventional
and offers no surprises.

All in all a wasted opportunity given that the film had a strong cast.
<|_=00=_|>
"Green Room" follows a vagabond punk band traveling through Oregon,
where they book a show at what they come to find out is a neo-nazi
skinhead punk club. The show goes well enough, but after they become
witnesses to a murder, the groupalong with a female regular at the
club are held hostage at the instruction of the community's head
honcho.

I went into "Green Room" with little expectations, unsure of what
exactly to expect; I'd heard good things about it, and the fact that it
was filmed in the area I grew up in further piqued my interest. The
film undoubtedly deserves the critical and public attention it's
gotten, especially from horror fans, though I'm hesitant to necessarily
label it a "horror" film. It's more a suspense-thriller akin to
something like "Panic Room," except with a starkly different setting
and a group of twenty-something punksters in place of the family home
invasion prototype. 

What is perhaps most jarring about the film is that its entire premise
springs out of a wrong-place-at-the-wrong-time scenario that spirals
entirely out of control. The script and direction lend an increasing
oppressiveness that comes on like a vice grip; the audience can easily
sympathize with the arbitrariness of the entire premise, and the
claustrophobic sense of inescapability is well-drawn out on screen. The
film is nicely shot with emphasis on darkness and its titular color,
and the photography of the landscapes effectively capture the
ominousness of rainy Oregon backcountry.

Solid performances from all involved further elevate the film. For a
film that's plot is so constricted, the material demands solid
performers, and we get that from the young cast, with Patrick Stewart
effectively playing counterpoint as the aloof villain-in-charge with an
army of intimidating henchmen. The film's finale is extremely
effective, and, barring a few convenient plot devices, is more or less
believable.

Overall, "Green Room" was one of more tense experiences I've had at the
movies in quite awhile. The way writer/director Jeremy Saulnier is able
to spin such an arbitrary, unfortunate situation into an oppressive,
character-driven splatter thriller is remarkable. It may not be enough
to turn off punks from their waking-up-in-urine-and-beer lifestyle, but
it's enough to make any prospective venues in the Pacific Northwest
backwoods seem at the very least questionable. A recommended nailbiter.
9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie tonight because of the great reviews I'd seen, so
I thought I would give it a watch. I was not disappointed. This was an
excellent film. To briefly and vaguely summarize, these kids in a band
get a gig and accidentally get themselves in a situation they have no
idea how to handle.

I have seen this movie called horror, which I suppose it is, but not in
the context of what is normally considered horror. If you are looking
for slasher/ghost story/monster type of horror, this is not that type.
It's horror in a more real life situation context. I don't want to give
anything away. If you are like me, I like to know the least amount of
information as possible because I like the element of surprise. Let's
just say that there is blood, gore and an excellent story to go along
with it. It is very well written, directed, acted, and it was
refreshingly original. It kept me on the edge of my seat and it was a
bit scary at times. I highly recommend this movie. It is currently
streaming on Amazon (if you have Prime, there is no addt'l charge to
watch). Take some time and please watch this movie. If you like tension
and terror with blood and gore, you will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Like a lot of people I suspect I was hooked by the trailer. This
purported to be a lot of gory fun. Initially I was quite impressed with
the set up - a no-hope punk band touring deadend bars for little or no
money, still hoping to make it in the music scene. Hence accepting a
slightly dubious gig at a remote bar for white supremacists. There are
quite nice little bits which really kept my interest--like when they
arrive at the bar to set up in rural hicksville with Neo-Nazis all
roaming around with their skinheads and they're told not to leave their
gear in the hallway because of the strict fire code the bar has. Heh.
But from that point on the whole thing went badly wrong. One of them
witnesses a "horrific" crime. ? He walks into the "Green Room" to find
a girl stabbed on the floor. Given the place they are in, the free-
flow of drugs, the hideous (imo) music blasted at intolerable levels in
the dark, the smashed bottles, the knives, the violence all natural at
such a gig, why would finding one stabbed girl be such a shock that the
whole band goes into meltdown from that moment on? I didn't get it.
Anyway, they do and so they have to be contained until the situation
can be resolved. Again, I was totally lost by this time. Why did the
Nazis not just kill them and hide the bodies? Feed them to the pigs?
Dogs? Skinheads? Whatever. No, an elaborate plot had to be invented
that didn't involve them being damaged by human means so they could be
set up as having trespassed at another place and attacked by the dogs?
Err... yeah. Overly complex and ridiculous. This could have been really
good. It wasn't. I was rooting for the dog. He was sort of cute, if you
can get over him tearing out a punk-rocker's throat. But it did pass a
wet afternoon. I suspect more beer might have been needed to truly get
this movie.
