
It's just a well crafted picture.

Casey Affleck fits into this role like a glove, and he was amazing in
it. If he were to win an Oscar for this one that would make sense
completely.

Manchester by the Sea has Affleck as uncle Lee, a janitor in Boston
whose brother dies and is forced by the will to take care of his
nephew, a task he's not up to.

The movie is very real and strangely raw to be filmed so beautifully
(but I am a sucker for movies shot in the winter). It's slow moving
enough to notice but not enough to bore you, cause that's life.

What really grasp me about Manchester by the Sea is how clumsy it is.
So many scenes in which the dramatic punches are ruined by everyday
life. It's just not fake like a lot of movies are usually. It had the
guts to keep in all those awkward moments that humans go through
knowing that we would relate, and it does this without skipping on the
romance you would find in dramas like this.

It's all the real emotions people go through when life gives you a
curve ball, yet life does not allow you a time out. Great movie!
Amazing performance by Affleck!! 

A must see.
<|_=00=_|>
After the sudden death of his older brother, Lee, played by Casey
Affleck, is made legal guardian of his son Patrick. He then returns to
his hometown and is forced to deal with a tragic past that separated
him from his family and the community he was born and raised in.

Kenneth Lonergan is such an extraordinary and talented writer; his
beautifully, and richly, textured drama draws upon the timeless themes
of recovery, redemption, and the persistence of guilt in such a way
that feels fresh. The emotion is never overbearing for the sake of
being overbearing, rather it feels all too real, which is a credit to
the writing as much as it is to the fantastic performances. 

This is the 'Casey Affleck show' from beginning to end; you can just
give him the 'Best Actor' Oscar right now and save everyone a whole lot
of trouble. He radiates this aura of subtle magnetism so brilliantly
and effortlessly; there's not a single emotion on the spectrum that
goes unexploited. 

As much as the film is about Lee and his internal journey from tragedy
to something a lot more hopeful, it's also about his nephew, played by
Lucas Hedges, who has a very bright future, and his personal struggle
to cope with his father's death. Despite having a small yet significant
part in the film, Michelle Williams' performance is a treasure to
behold. There's one scene, in particular, where she got everyone in
attendance wishing they brought a tissue. 

Unlike many big-budget studio movies, MANCHESTER BY THE SEA is not
afraid to make the audience work and test the viewer's patience with
its constant, and unannounced, cutting between past and present, as
well as its unwavering unravelling of character background and
motivation. In fact, one of its best aspects is the lack of close-ups.
Almost everything is filmed from afar, which reflects Lee's emotional
distancing. And it's not until later where you finally find out why
this guy has detached himself from the rest of the world. Then, from
that point on, you're in his head; you watch the film unfold from a
point-of-view almost entirely foreign to how you viewed it at first. 

Regardless of the second half's slackening pace and film's familiar
DNA, this is without a doubt the most personal and heart wrenching film
of 2016 thus far. Maybe even the best.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a snob out to distinguish himself from the 97% Rotten Tomato
ravers. I was just really disappointed walking out of the theatre. I
don't know if I've ever seen a more self indulgent domestic weepy. The
film sets the viewer up with mountains of spoon-fed plot tragedy and
setback and then mines every last drop of melodrama and tears out of
such. Affleck's character is a flawless, blameless Everyman and behaves
so heroic it becomes impossible to feel for his plight. Williams is
terrific but barely on screen for ten minutes. What apparently is
intended to pass as compelling real-life dialog quickly becomes mundane
and boring. Likewise, our younger protagonist is a teenage lothario
having far too good a time to be awarded compassion. The non- Hollywood
ending comes across as pretentious, though it certainly comes as a
relief.
<|_=00=_|>
Dealing with the aftermath of a tragedy turns a once warm and ebullient
family man into a solemn, withdrawn, and angry loner in Kenneth
Lonergan's ("Margaret") bittersweet drama Manchester by the Sea, one of
the best films of 2016. Set in the picturesque city of Manchester on
Massachusetts' north shore, cinematographer Jody Lee Lipes ("Martha
Marcy May Marlene") captures the rugged beauty of the New England town
with its bays filled with trawlers and its winter streets and municipal
buildings covered in a shimmering white. It is a town that looks as if
it has not changed in decades, or even centuries.

Lee Chandler, in a haunting performance by Casey Affleck
("Interstellar"), is a janitor/handyman who spends his days painting,
doing minor plumbing work, repairing leaks, and so on or just giving
advice while making sure to avoid any social interaction with the
people he is working for. His nights are spent drinking alone in bars
where he is quick to start fights or at home watching TV in his small
apartment. There is no hint during the film's first half hour about
what has brought him to his present state of disequilibrium, but in his
mumbling inability to express his thoughts, we know that something
unspoken is driving his need for isolation.

Lee has been living in nearby Quincy but, when his older brother, Joe
(Kyle Chandler, "Carol") succumbs to a heart attack, he has to return
to Manchester to make funeral arrangements and attend the reading of
the will and to confront the people that he has turned away from. His
grief over his brother's death turns to shock, however, when he
discovers that he has been named the legal guardian of Joe's
16-year-old son Patrick (Lucas Hedges, "The Grand Budapest Hotel"), a
popular high school student. Since Patrick's mom Elise (Gretchen Mol,
"Anesthesia") is an alcoholic who left town long ago, Lee is the only
person who can assume the task.

It is one, however, that he does not feel ready for. Eventually, the
seminal event that changed Lee's life forever is revealed, depicted in
a straightforward manner without histrionics or pandering, even if the
overused baroque music tends to amplify the drama beyond what is
required. In flashback, we see that Lee was once a happy family man
with a loving wife Randi (Michelle Williams, "Suite Fran√ßaise") and
three young children and we see him joking around with his young nephew
Patrick (Ben O'Brien) on their fishing boat. Assuming the
responsibility of being a father-figure to Patrick, we glimpse the man
that Lee used to be.

The dialogue between the abrasive Lee and the feisty, sharp-tongued
Patrick feels real and without guile but channeling the chemistry they
have together into rebuilding his life is a challenge. Manchester by
the Sea is a serious film but is balanced by humor. In one such scene,
Patrick awkwardly attempts to hide the obvious from his mom about
studying in his room with his girlfriend. Another funny incident takes
place when Lee is used as a cover for Patrick's surreptitious juggling
of his two girlfriends. The issues between them take a more serious
tone, however, when Lee is convinced that he and Patrick should move to
Boston, a suggestion that Patrick rebels at, citing his high school
girlfriends, his being on the soccer team, and his playing in the
school band.

Though Michelle Williams has a small role, she turns in one of her best
performances. In a powerful confrontation with Lee, it is clear that
she still loves him but has felt compelled to suppress it in order to
bury the past and move on. Manchester by the Sea belongs to Casey
Affleck, however, who turns in what is arguably the best performance of
his career. The film does not have the sort of neat resolution that you
may have come to expect but what it does have are real people whose
lives you want to be a part of and you know that that world is not one
that can only happen in the movies, but a real experience of life fully
lived in all its pain and all its joy.
<|_=00=_|>
I've very much enjoyed other Kenneth Lonergan films, and I've admired
Casey Affleck's acting gifts for a long time. Because of the rave
reviews, I was looking forward to seeing this. Unfortunately, the film
went into production with a half-baked script. It probably needed
another 5-6 rewrites to make the characterization more layered, develop
the subplots more, and get to the pith of the central conflict, which
was extremely weak.

The story didn't really get off the ground until the last third of the
film. It's a testament to Affleck's acting, not the story, that the
film managed to sustain my interest. The only thing I'll say about the
music is that the classical music was used in a very ham-handed fashion
to manipulate the audience's emotion.

Affleck plays a character named Lee, who has suffered a tragedy from
which he can't recover. He does his best with an taciturn, undeveloped
character whose aims are vague and is so caught in depression and grief
that he displays little outward emotional expression. The other major
character is Patrick, a teenage boy whose father, Affleck's brother,
has died suddenly.

One of the big wrongs in the screenplay is that we don't get any sense
that Patrick is grieving or even in shock about his father's death
until a contrived scene later in the movie about a refrigerator that is
a weak, unconvincing attempt to show Patrick has feelings about his
father.

The relationship between Lee and Patrick is meandering and with mild
conflict here and there. It's supposed to be the spine of the movie,
but it's so flaccid that the film often lacks focus.

I think this movie has something to say, but it's not fully
articulated, because the film was shot before the script was fully
ready for production.
<|_=00=_|>
I joined IMDb today so I could write this review.

How this has been nominated for 6 Oscars is beyond belief.

The Film starts slows and plods on to dreary end where nothing really
happens, Casey Afflecks performance is wooden to the point where you
cant sympathise with his character and the fact that he was using drugs
and drinking when his house burnt down.

The film jumps about from flashback to present in the early stages and
early on its difficult to tell which is which, Lee doesn't look that
happy prior to the fire , so you never really get a sense of
comparison.

This film may have benefited from just running through the course of
events rather in order than flash backs, there is a sense that some big
secret is about to be revealed - but nothing happens then it ends.

Just a few specifics to comment on which added to the drudgery ;

1. When his wife wants to go to lunch with him it sounds like there is
a huge confession coming ie - it was me that took the guard off the
fire - but No

2. Much was made in the hospital of not having his brothers personal
effects - nothing was mentioned again.

3. The symoblism that was tried for in the frozen meat in the freezer
because his dad was kept in a freezer at the undertakers was quite
frankly ludicrous and in poor film was very badly acted.

4. The son of the dead brother seemed really happy considering his dad
had just died.

5. The overuse of emotional classical music in scenes that were just
not that emotional just didn't work.

I didn't like it.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very pleased to snag a last minute returned, lone available
ticket to the European premiere of this on Saturday as I'd heard a lot
of great things about this film and it had been sold out.

The premise is simple: when his brother Joe dies, Lee Chandler (Casey
Affleck) is forced to take care of his teenage nephew in his hometown,
from which he moved away years earlier to escape his demons from a
trauma years earlier.

It becomes clear early on that Lee had life figured out years earlier.
The film jumps between the past and the present, revealing a time where
Lee was married, spent a lot of time with his friends and family
(especially his brother and his nephew) and was content with life. But
while jumping between the two periods of time, the film travels along
at a slow, tense pace, tentatively revealing facets of Lee's past and
present personalities (which are remarkably different) before hitting
the audience with the full force of what exactly what made him run from
his hometown.

Casey Affleck is astonishingly good and it's no wonder that there is a
strong early buzz around his performance. He essentially plays two
different characters, a man before trauma and a man after. The 'before'
in flashbacks is fairly simple, a relatively friendly and
happy-go-lucky guy who spends a lot of time with his friends and
family, has a close relationship with his nephew, etc. But where he
excels is in the quiet desperation of the present-day Lee Chandler.
With this character there are only rare moments of outward emotion -
but Affleck plays it so that it is painfully clear just how much hurt
Lee is keeping inside. Best Actor Oscar nomination, and highly possible
win, incoming.

Despite the serious subject matter, there is a surprising warmth that
permeates the film. This is a film primarily about a man forced to
confront his demons, yes, but it is also a film about family and the
ties that bind us to our hometown. There is a terrific chemistry
between Affleck's Lee and Lucas Hedges, who plays his nephew Patrick.
Make no mistake, despite its subject matter this film is often
hilarious, with the dialogue between Lee and his nephew providing most
of the frequent outbursts of laughter in the cinema. Owing to his
detachment and fear, Lee is fairly useless as a caregiver to Patrick,
who in turn pushes his limits in being allowed to do whatever he wants
(mostly chasing girls - there are particularly hilarious scenes when he
is trying to get laid).

Affleck's Lee is also forced to confront his demons in the form of his
now ex-wife Randi, played by the ever-brilliant Michelle Williams. It's
actually a relatively small part, but a key one, with an especially
important scene that is played beautifully by both Affleck and
Williams. In the Q&A that took place before the film, Williams talked
about how she had spent 15 years wanting to work with 'Kenny' Lonergan,
the director, as he is such a beautiful writer, and so she jumped at
the chance before she'd even really heard detail about the part. 

And it's clear to see why she would be so desperate to work with
Kenneth Lonergan, whose writing and directing for this film is gentle,
warm and heartbreaking in one package. It's bleak, but hints at hope.
It's understated, but breaks out in small moments of agony without
overdoing it (the middle of the film is particularly gut-wrenching). I
would be very surprised not to see nominations in his direction also.

Beautiful writing and directing from Kenneth Lonergan, and a stunning
performance from Casey Affleck in particular. It's a beautiful, quiet
picture encapsulating trauma, guilt, redemption and familial bonds.
<|_=00=_|>
These type of films don't come around that often, and for good reason.
It takes focus and effort to come up with stories and themes that touch
deeper than the usual Hollywood dirge. The story-line is completely
unpredictable , unlike 95% of the films out there.

What is most intriguing about M B T S , is the way in which highly
depressing themes are kept in check with humour, intelligent scripting
and a subtle feel good factor, which seems to creep in at exactly the
right time. The overall feel is also kept balanced by the intricacies
of the relationships between various characters. Affleck has taken his
game to the next level , his character and mannerisms are completely
believable -he is submerged into type.

As a couple of mid 40 somethings, we grew tired of the typical film
genres some years ago. We long for films like this, and having seen
many of the nominated films for this year (bafta), this one is by far
the clear leader. Hacksaw ridge is just another glorification of war,
predictable, overly violent and boring, silence is good OK but not
special and the list goes on. Manchester by the sea deserves
recognition for standing out in a sea of mediocrity
<|_=00=_|>
Wow! I'd heard all about the Oscar hype surrounding this film but to be
honest, while I thought I would be seeing a solid and well-made indie
film, I went into it without great expectations of having an
'enjoyable' time: the trailer had "angst" written all over it. And ¬ñ
sure ¬ñ it is emotional and harrowing in places. However, I was
completely knocked out by the depth, the intelligence and the humour of
this masterpiece.

'Family troubles' is a common trope for the movies, and I was strongly
reminded at times in watching this movie of a multi-Oscar winning
classic of my youth: Robert Redford's "Ordinary People" back in 1980.
In that film the relationship between parents (Mary Tyler-Moore and
Donald Sutherland) and their teenage son (Timothy Hutton) is rocked by
the accidental death of another family member. Similarly, in
"Manchester by the Sea" a drifting handyman Lee Chandler (Casey
Affleck, "Triple 9", "Interstellar") gets the shocking news that his
only brother Joe (Kyle Chandler, "The Wolf of Wall Street") has
suddenly passed away, leaving behind a mid-teens son Patrick (Lucas
Hedges) with no-one to look after him.

With the other option being an unstable and ex-alcoholic mother Elise
(Gretchen Mol) ¬ñ now divorced and living in a strictly pious household
with new husband Jeffrey (Matthew Broderick) ¬ñ Joe has legally plumped
for naming Lee as the boy's guardian. This is much to Lee's surprise
and annoyance. For Lee is a man-adrift: an antisocial loner with a very
short fuse. Having any sort of responsibility is not in his game plan.

With the ground too frozen to bury his brother, Lee is forced to remain
in Manchester-by-the-Sea for a few weeks: a town he can't stand and a
town that, for some reason, can't stand him. Can Lee's attitude be
softened by his lively and over-sexed nephew? Or will he just continue
his emotional and social decline towards a gutter and a brown-bag?
Where this film surprises ¬ñ with a strong kick to the gut ¬ñ is that
while I have described the high-level story in the paragraphs above
that the trailer depicts, there is a whole other dimension to the tale
that is hidden and truly astonishing. No spoilers, but if you are not
shocked and moved by it, then you need your humanity chip reset.

Casey Affleck is Oscar-nominated now for Best Actor and I would love to
see him win for this. I had a real go at his brother, Ben, for a lack
of facial variation in his performance in "Live By Night". Here, while
Casey has a similar dour and pretty rigid demeanour, his performance is
chalk-and-cheese compared to Ben. He channels a shut-down rage in his
eyes that is both haunting and disturbing in equal measure.

Young Lucas Hedges ¬ñ overlooked by the BAFTAs (he is in the "Rising
Star" category) but yesterday nominated for a Best Supporting Actor
Oscar ¬ñ is equally strong, burying his teenage grief in guitars, sex
and smart phones in a highly believable way.

Supporting roles are equally strong, with Michelle Williams ¬ñ albeit
only having limited screen time ¬ñ delivering truly memorable scenes,
notably the street encounter with Lee (as featured on the poster) which
is electrifying. She is also Oscar nominated for the role.

What really makes these performances shine is the elegant directing by
Kenneth Lonergan, better known for his screenplays on films like
"Analyze This" and "Gangs of New York". He gives the actors time¬Ö lots
of time. A typical example is when young Patrick walks into Lee's
bedroom and stares at some photos on his bedside table before walking
on. It must be a good 20 to 30 seconds used, but time really well
spent. The film spectacularly uses flash-backs to great effect, with
the only visual notification that you are in a different time-zone
being the living and breathing appearance of Joe in the shot.

Lonergan also writes the screenplay, and I mentioned in my introduction
the humour used. There are some outright belly laughs in this film,
which feels incongruous with the morbid subject matter but which also
feels guiltily appropriate (we've all surely had an experience where a
tense funeral mood is lightened by an uncle loudly farting at the back
of the church, or similar!).

Manchester-by-the-Sea is a picturesque place in Massachusetts, and the
camera work by Jody Lee Lipes ("Martha Marcy May Marlene",
"Trainwreck") lovingly makes use of that. There is incredibly crisp
focus, with the opening boat scene looks like it is hyper-HD.

This is a truly stunning film, and one that will live with me for many
years to come. For that reason it receives my highest accolade together
with my best wishes for success at the forthcoming Oscars. If you
haven't yet, go see it.

(For the graphical version of this review please visit
bob-the-movie-man.com or search for One Mann's Movies on Facebook.)
<|_=00=_|>
As I always make an annual ritual of watching the Oscar contenders last
night I gave 'Manchester' a viewing. What can one say? My wife and I
sat through XXX minutes (whatever it was it seemed an eternity) of one
of the most excruciatingly depressing movies I can remember. The
narrative made no attempt to redeem itself with any 'feel good' content
- it was a movie to slit you wrists to! Our lead character played by
Casey Affleck spends the entire movie in an unsuccessful attempt at
redeeming himself for having been negligently responsible for the
deaths of his three children in a house fire and that is as good as it
gets! The director annoyingly kept inter-mingling past and present to
such a degree that you were trying to spot things to establish some
kind of time line. There was an early scene where our main man tries to
grab an officer's weapon to kill himself at the police station. Boy,
don't you wish he had succeeded!
