
I saw Go With Me at the Stockholm International Film Festival and I
walked in not expecting much mainly because of the cast - Anthony
Hopkins and Ray Liotta have both been in some questionable stuff lately
- and i walked out pretty pleased, but it's still a very flawed movie
though.

The acting by Julia Stiles is a little distracting at times and it took
me out of the movie. Anthony Hopkins gave a pretty good performance but
nothing too great.

The biggest problems are in the script and the story. I won't give
anything away but when the main plot kicked off I instantly knew where
it was headed. The cinematography was bland and grey and boring and
there were nothing pretty to look at.

Overall a pretty enjoyable movie and I would recommend checking it out.

6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
If you, just like me, can't get enough of bleak and gritty small-town
dramas, this one might be for you. Blackway slowly builds momentum and
although not as good as Blue Ruin (2013) - one of my favorite films in
the genre - actually feels kind of similar in 'realness' and setup.
Dialogue is quite sparse but complements the low-key grading of the
scenes perfectly. I doubt this film will make any significant waves
with the general public, but Anthony Hopkins performance is as solid as
ever and the story is pretty believable. Over all good performances by
the cast. I would recommend for anybody into drama and or revenge type
films.
<|_=00=_|>
'Blackway' is about as straight forward of a story line as you'll ever
get, and yet it's all the more enjoyable for that reason alone.
Frequently films spend so much time trying to be complex that they
forget to keep the realism factor and allow the characters to carry the
movie. Some reasonably large actors (not so much currently, but in
their time) signed on to this. Ray Liotta has always been a personal
favourite of mine. He's very much suited to the character. He can play
'unlikable' very well. Julia Stiles is a little clunky in her line
delivery at time, but has just enough acting chops in other areas to
get away with it. The stand-out for me though was Anythony Hopkins.
What a delight it is to watch this man act. He may not have the energy
in his roles he once had, but his presence more than makes up for it.
His line delivery is elegant and yet menacing in its own way at the
same time. To think at 78 he is still working as frequently as he is is
astonishing.

Quiet little independent films like this often go one of two ways.
Either they're incredibly dull, simply trying to be more than they are
capable of. Or in the case of 'Blackway' they just perfectly find their
niche and are a delight to watch. It's far from perfect and there's
nothing game-changing here, but if you're just looking for an enjoyable
90 minute experience you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Daniel "brother of Tomas" Alfredson directed two parts of the Swedish
Millennium Trilogy, so it's no wonder this chilly American thriller,
filmed in British Columbia, should feel so... well, Scandinavian. If
the lens were filtered any further the movie would be monochrome. 

Julia Stiles plays Lillian, a stoic young woman living in a Pacific
Northwest logging community, who's being bullied by local gangster
Richard Blackway (Ray Liotta). When she goes to the sheriff she's
fobbed off and told to leave town. Instead, she enlists the help of
old-timer Lester (Anthony Hopkins) and young bruiser Nate (Alexander
Ludwig). Together the trio head into the hills to track down Blackway
and stop him for good  by whatever means necessary. 

With confidence and determination in the face of grotty small town
politics, Stiles is channelling something of Jennifer Lawrence's
classic Winter's Bone performance here. Lillian's outlook is definite
(and defiant) to a fault: "Some people are just bad," she concludes. 

Alongside Stiles, Hopkins soft-spoken style is sometimes at odds with
the confrontational nature of his character, but he's eminently
watchable. And Ludwig is strong as a stuttering soulful warrior who
could have been a swaggering cliché. 

The first hour is all character-building, and this is where the film is
at its strongest. The plot is simple and linear  the ideal foundation
for characters to come alive through their interactions, often enriched
by the vaguest mention of some unseen life; some mourned-for ex- wife.
The dialogue rings true and the characters feel lived in, which is
vital for depictions of tight rural communities. 

There isn't much in the way of humour, but Go With Me is at least in
touch with its absurdity, and it's a lot more fun than Scott Cooper's
ostensibly similar Out of the Furnace. This film is fast- paced and
full of interesting incident  up to a point. Unfortunately in the
final reel the narrative unravels, and the climactic confrontation is a
frustratingly dark, indistinct mess. It leaves you with a sense of hard
work not quite paying off. 

Overall it's a solid movie. Thanks in part to the terrible UK title
(it's called Blackway in the US), it's likely to go unnoticed by a wide
audience, but it deserves attention.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a movie that started well and really set me up for a
suspenseful movie but unfortunately it never really quite delivered. I
thought that both Julia Stiles and Alexander Ludwig were pretty good
and of course Anthony Hopkins, but lets be honest this was a okay
script but maybe the director wasn't to good? disappointing especially
since I've read the book. The scenes of British Columbia is beautiful
and makes me want to visit but also gives the movie a cold feeling
about it as if you were there. Ray Liotta never really struck me as a
great bad guy. But he did okay here, I think this movie didn't quite
hit it's potential.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those movies you start watching, then five minutes later
you start pressing fast-forward every five seconds. I also can not
comprehend why would a movie star such as Anthony Hopkins or Ray Liotta
accept to be part of this garbage. 8 mill $ budget?! For what exactly?!
No special effects, no costumes, no fancy stunts involving expensive
equipment, filming takes place in a bar, a house, a car and in woods.
I've seen more variety in movies such as Food of the Gods, Bad Taste,
Braindead...etc, than in this one... 

There's not much to tell about the story because the story is about one
man that everyone knows, everyone is scared of him, no one knows where
he is and those who know won't tell where he is...and he's just about
everywhere.

Scripting...a disaster. The dialogue goes like this:

-Where's Blackway? -Blackway?! -Yes, Blackway! -Dunno who Blackway
is... -YOU TELL US WHERE BLACKWAY IS!!! -Be careful, you don't want to
meet Blackway... -Oh yeah...and why don't we want to meet Blackway?
-I'm so scared to say this out loud, but..OK, I'll just say it...no one
wants to meet Blackway!! -Yeah, well....we want to meet Blackway, so
tell us right now where he is!!!!! -Dunno who Blackway is...

I had to download subs just so I could count how many times have they
spoken "BLACKWAY"?

S-I-X-T-Y S-I-X times...66!

Don't waste your time on this one..
<|_=00=_|>
"Sure would be better for everyone involved if she just left town."
Lillian (Stiles) has just returned to her hometown after years away.
Once she becomes the target of a stalker she asks for help but only
Lester (Hopkins) is willing to offer it. Now the two of them must not
only find out who the mysterious Blackway is but stop him before things
get too far. This is a movie that is first and foremost tense and a
good mystery story. On the other hand the movie is a little generic and
cliché and would be a really good TV movie if not for the cast. The
cast in this really raises the movie above that. Hopkins is good and
Stiles plays her part well, but there were a few plot points that were
added and either forgotten about or didn't seem to fit with the rest of
the movie. All that said, the movie isn't bad and is a decent watch for
what it is. Overall, a really good TV movie that became more due to the
casting alone. I give this a B-.
<|_=00=_|>
'Blackway' is a dismal waste-of-time, frittering away the talents of a
decent cast on a routine revenge tale. Its story is as threadbare as an
old dishrag, the direction dull, the dialog lifeless, the performances
wooden and the cinematography colorless. Apart from a paycheck, it's
hard to imagine what drew any of the participants to this mundane
material, with no sign the actors and director were doing anything more
than going through the motions. 

The plot of this contemporary Western is pitifully weak. The villain is
revealed as a killer of domestic cats and would-be rapist within the
first five minutes, and the rest of the film depicts three misfits
searching for this bully-boy crime baron among the local lumberjack
community. There's minimal character development as the oddball posse
pursues their prey around the overcast mountain landscape in a rusting
pick-up. From time to time their inquiries result in tired scuffles,
until the film eventually sputters up to a night-time showdown at the
bad guy's forest hideaway. After the adversaries go through their
ho-hum appointment with destiny, another dank day dawns.
<|_=00=_|>
"You're probably just a bad dad." 

"Blackway" is like a badly composed fitness program, an unbalanced diet
or a poorly planned vacation trip. You start off with certain
expectations, but eventually you have to conclude that nothing
essential changed or happened. No top shape, no slender figure and no
holiday experience that'll stick to you eternally. The same applies to
"Blackway". It's not an impressing movie experience. It remains a vague
thriller without much sensation.

It was clear that this community consisted of seasoned loggers in
checkered winter coats. Such a closed society where strangers are
looked at in suspicion and where they react quite aggressively when too
much prying questions are asked. Even if those questions are asked by
like-minded souls. I still don't understand why these roughnecks and
frightening trappers fear one individual. By joining forces (and it's
not even necessary that the whole loggers federation gather, when you
look at their torso) they would have felled, subsequently chopped and
removed Blackway (Ray Liotta) without too many problems. Forget it. The
man seems to be the devil himself. That's why all these tough guys hide
in their safe block huts, I guess.

Fortunately for Lillian (Julia Stiles), there are two helpful scouts
members who aren't easily intimidated and run away swiftly when it gets
dangerous. If you compare their figure with the other typical tree
sawyers, it seems more like a suicide mission. On the one hand there's
the old, tough ex-lumberman Lester (Anthony Hopkins), who's apparently
on a revenge-mission when it's about Blackway and without thinking he
gets his moose rifle. And secondly there's the stuttering, shy Nate
(Alexander Ludwig) who actually has no idea why he's joining this
willingly. I was wondering about the same thing. The three of them
start their mission to find Blackway and to make clear to him that he
should leave Lillian alone. Indeed, that is the ultimate starting point
of the whole story. Finding the former policeman Blackway who has
worked his way up to the status of local bad-ass. The one everybody's
afraid of (even the local police) and who's stalking Lillian. A simple
story-line for a simple movie. "Finding Blackway" instead of Dory.

Ultimately, this was just an average film. You'll see the three
protagonists on their quest and ending in a not so very original
denouement. Along the way we get the mandatory fights and skirmishes
with Nate grimly throwing himself into the battles. At least he's
useful when doing this. Lester limits himself to cold-blooded dialogues
and demonstratively waving his wrapped gun. Blackway behaves as a moose
being hunted down. As expected. Sir Hopkins remains a brilliant actor.
It's a pleasure to watch him acting even though his contribution is
limited to glassy and absent staring. However, the whole time I had the
impression that I was watching a nature documentary with Hannibal
Lecter in it. A kind of "Silence of the woods". Lillian remained
faithful to her role as victim. Although I'm sure she was already sorry
of not taking the advice (endlessly repeated by the inhabitants) after
a while.

All in all it wasn't a memorable movie. Despite the splendor images and
the right atmosphere, it was all rather mediocre. And even the presence
of Hopkins couldn't resolve this. The reputation of Blackway looked
like that of Candyman. His name was pronounced every five minutes
(awe-struck and full of fear) so I got the feeling he could appear any
moment somewhere out of a dark corner. A corner filled with pine scent
of course.

More reviews here : http://bit.ly/1KIdQMT
<|_=00=_|>
Review: This is an average thriller, which I found pretty boring in
places, mainly because most of the movie is about 3 people trying to
find the towns crime lord. Anthony Hopkins (Lester), plays an ex-cop,
who decides to help Lillian (Julia Stiles) to track down Blackway (Ray
Liotta), to put a stop to him stalking her. Lesters trusty sidekick,
Nate (Alexander Ludwig) decides to help Lester and Lillian but they
don't get a lot of help from there fellow town members, because they
are all scared of Blackway. Personally, I didn't understand what was so
scary about Blackway, because he just seemed like the town bully, who
could have been easily been killed if they all pulled together. It
basically took the determination of a young girl, and some straight
forward investigating from Lester, to stop Blackway from causing
anymore harm, which wasn't anything clever from the director but it was
watchable. The showdown at the end was also a let down because I was
expecting some major twist or a reason for Blackways brutal behaviour.
Anyway, it's always good to see Hopkins on the big screen but this
movie definitely wasn't his best and the storyline wasn't anything
amazing. Average!

Round-Up: Anthony Hopkins isn't one to take on many projects, so my
expectations for this film was quite high. By the end of the film, I
was pretty disappointed with the outcome and after watching the trio
spending an hour and a half trying to track down Blackway, it didn't
seem much of a big deal by the end. Anyway, this movie was directed by
Daniel Alfredson, 57, who also brought you Kidnapping Freddy Heineken,
which was another disappointing movie from Hopkins, Echoes From The
Dead, The Girl Who Kicked The Hornets Nest, The Girl Who Played With
Fire and a couple of unheard of movies. His straight-laced directing
style isn't the best in the world and I personally find his movies
pretty boring. I just hope that Hopkins comes back with something
decent, because his last two movies with this director, have been
disappointing and after such a successful career, I just hope that he
doesn't get remembered for his latest work. 

Budget: $8million Worldwide Gross: N/A

I recommend this movie to people who are into their thriller starring
Julia Stiles, Anthony Hopkins, Alexander Ludwig, Ray Liotta, Lochlyn
Munro and Hal Holbrook. 3/10
