
(Please pardon lack of detail to keep spoilers modest.)

Woodlawn tells an amazing, true story of black and white people
embracing change and each other as they also embrace God, while working
to transform haters of all types, using a football team as the delivery
mechanism.

Woodlawn High School of Birmingham, Alabama has been forced to
integrate (mix white and black students), leading to anger on all sides
(but for different reasons). The football team takes on some black
players including Tony Nathan, an impressive runner. The lackluster
team's hard-edged coach reluctantly allows a "religious nut" to speak
to his team amidst the racial tension. The result? The team chooses to
stand with one another in unity and love amidst the racial tension
surrounding them. But in the jet-wash of this transformation come
intense new attacks from all sides, within and without -- including
indirectly from Governor George Wallace, a key inspiration for racism
in Alabama at the time, who subsequently tried to cover it up by
shamelessly using a black player. Will the team, and new potential star
Tony, be able to keep together the commitment to "do something bigger
than yourself?"

This movie has some seriously good talent. Jon Voight and Sean Astin
deliver like the professionals they are, and -- pleasant surprise --
the rest of the cast deliver as well. Further, there was interesting
use of old footage from the time period, and the contemplative well-
spokenness of the black community at the time is thought-provoking.
Modern Christian films are improving as a lot, but not homogeneously,
so you have to watch for one failed aspect (such as cinematography,
writing, acting, or direction) dragging down otherwise good elements;
however, during the the film and even after post-credits contemplation
I was unable to come up with any material flaw.

Personally, I found this story and the way the film tells it
engrossing. Brokenness can be beautiful; truth can be touching. This
country, so tragically in the midst of lies about racial animus, as
well as about our individual identities, needs a fresh injection of
healing truth and reality. This film is medicine for the soul, and its
surprising viewpoint may inoculate viewers against those trying to
divide this country along racial lines.

Touchdown, Woodlawn!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was excellent at setting the stage of what the country was
dealing with in the early 70's. Some of the old footage brought back a
flood of memories as kid. The quotes from the black community could
have been from last week though, haunting how they felt so much like
now. The despair, pain and frustration was tangible. 

Then Sean Astin's character, Hank, brings hope. It seemed that every
place there was strife and animosity, he was in there bringing
understanding and an opportunity to forgive. 

I love the fact it's a true story, hearing from the directors and
producers on this at a pre-screening was really insightful. They did a
ton of research to get the story from the people who were there. Tony
Nathan was such a solid man, the actor did a splendid job portraying
him. The footage was excellent, on the field with real players, you
felt like you're in the action getting muddy. A little side note, the
actor who played Tony was a real player in college from a long line of
college and pros. So you see the actor doing the moves without CG or
stunt doubles. I also love how the end credits provide the "rest of the
story"
<|_=00=_|>
While there is a Woodlawn High School in my town of Baton Rouge, LA,
this one is about a Woodlawn in Birmingham, AL, that seemed in danger
of closing because of the racial incidents that happened when it was
integrated in the early '70s. The coach employs a motivational
speaker-played by Sean Astin-to help heal whatever issues the school
football players had with each other and it seems to do the trick,
especially when one of the black players-Tony Nathan-suddenly becomes
very valuable to the team. I'll stop there and just say this is quite
an inspirational true-life drama to watch in light of recent racial
strife we seem to be going through right now. Oh, and I also liked Jon
Voight's playing of legendary Alabama coach Paul "Bear" Bryant, as
well. So on that note, I recommend Woodlawn.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw s screening of this a couple of months ago. The movie is pretty
good even though i think there should have been a little more
development in some of the characters. It would have came together a
little better in the end. I would definitely recommend it though. This
is a Christian move so of course there will be many haters just for
this fact. Yes it is a little preachy but not so embarrassing as a lot
of others. If this wasn't based on a true story, i would have given it
a lower rating because it seemed to be a little too far fetched ( in a
good way ). But i asked one of the persons at the screening who was
involved with the picture if this really happened as it was shown and
he said yes, it was. This isn't just a football movie. Its a lot more,
so don't go in expecting just another Christian football movie. If you
do want a good Christian football movie, see 'When the Game Stands
Tall' So it is a great story that really happened. There are a few
things that weren't explained fully that left me wanting more but
nevertheless, i liked it. You wont be disappointed..
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was like stepping back in time. My husband and I grew up in
Alabama during this time frame and experienced pretty much everything
in the film; segregation, desegregation, race wars and the Jesus
Revolution. These events are not exaggerated! They actually happened
not only at Woodlawn but in cities all over America. They happened in
the schools and churches in our town...this is truth and we personally
have never recovered from that time period...when God showed up. Must
see story! Billy Graham came to our little town...David Wilkerson came
too...This film accurately and poignantly portrays a vivid spiritual
awakening that we could certainly use a heavy dose of right now in this
country.
<|_=00=_|>
WOODLAWN is a fact and faith based drama directed by Andrew and Jon
Erwin. Jon helps co-write this narrative of a struggling high school
coach Tandy Gerelds(Nic Nishop)as he tries with all his resources to
bring a newly integrated football team together. Birmingham, Alabama in
the early 1970's is suffering racial tension and strife weighing
heavily on a football team yearning for a championship and a school
just trying not to be dismantled for good.

Coach Gerelds is asked by a motivating sports chaplain Hank(Sean
Astin)for permission to talk to the entire team with a radical idea; a
ten minute talk became a two hour session that had the majority of the
team give themselves over to the word of Christ. Challenges are being
met and racial tensions on the team tone down with the team actually
becoming winners. One player in particular, running back Tony
Nathan(Caleb Castille), becomes confident that God has a special plan
for him. The team becomes explosive with Nathan's playing exploits
which are noticed by Alabama coach Paul "Bear" Bryant(Jon Voight).

Christianity will play a major role in this story as the team begins to
succeed and racial barriers are broken down; that in turn helps
Gereld's struggle with the secular school board. Tony's star will shine
brighter and brighter. To be exact, Nathan ended up playing for Coach
Bryant at Alabama.

Real nice hard hitting football action along with a decent soundtrack
featuring "Knockin' On Heaven's Door" by Bob Dylan and "Jesus Is Just
Alright" by the Doobie Brothers.

Also in the cast: C. Thomas Howell, Richard Kohnke, Blake Burgess,
Kelly Grayson, Harry Alexander, Joy Brunson and Stephen Chester Prince.

NOTE: Tony Nathan would go from playing four years for the Tide to the
NFL Miami Dolphins from 1979 to 1987. He would establish himself an
allusive running back and pass receiver.
<|_=00=_|>
As our country continues to see the lines of racial divide grow farther
and farther apart this film is a breath of fresh air. With a well
written screenplay and excellent acting Woodlawn lifts the spirit of
its audience to embrace the truth that peace can be found for everyone
through faith in the one true source of hope and love. We need more
films like this to help shape our culture for the betterment of
society.

Take your family, take your friends, take your sports teams, and see
this film. If we can emulate the change that took place in this town
Alabama then maybe we can make a difference in our nation that has
eternal weight.
<|_=00=_|>
A very hard film to review, a film clearly of the "faith" genre so well
produced, acted, directed, cast that it literally pulls at its own
leash and tries to cross over into the mainstream.

Also lost in the shuffle is the fact that the "mystery" evangelist who
appears out of nowhere and sparks the story fathered two sons who ..
big coincidence here.. produced the movie.

A wonderful performance by Voight who frankly we take too much for
granted. Compare his work here to Ray Dovovan and you will wonder if
you are looking at the same actor.

A film is in many ways the ultimate recipe for a souffl√©. Leave it in
the oven a few minutes too long and it falls.

The irony is that with a little more judicious editing, a little less
preaching, the objective of a true crossover might have been achieved.
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of two football movies coming out at the same time. The
other was My All American. Being football movies they do have a similar
concept, but while My All American seems to be about an underdog
overcoming his physical condition, In Woodlawn, the underdogs use faith
to over come their challenges, the biggest one being off the
field...Segregation.

Based on a true story of a high school football team that fought
segregation with the help of Christ. I'm not that big of a fan of faith
based films, and this movie is faith base. It seemed too easy, even to
the coach of the high school team, for these teenagers, who haven't
even wrapped around their heads going to an non-segregated school, to
somehow band together through the love of Jesus, but who am I to argue
with the touching moments that occurred through those scenes (maybe
that's how it happen?).

For me, the best part of the movie was the football. The way the camera
moves within the players on the football field was hands down
spectacular. I don't think I've ever seen a football movie filmed in
such a matter. I felt closer to the grid Iron than I ever did watching
a film.

Overall, it's an amazing story about how Jesus united blacks and whites
in a place in Alabama on a football field. Go to watch the football,
stay for the inspiring message.
<|_=00=_|>
Woodlawn is easily the best faith-based film I've ever seen (one not
based on a bible story, that is). The film details the true story of
the Woodlawn High School football team in 1973 Birmingham, Alabama, the
year the school integrated, and how this team helped bring the whole
school together by all of the players accepting Christ. This is a story
that could have easily been ham-fisted, but the Erwin Brothers (the
directors of the film) manage to keep the film from ever being too
sappy or preachy. All of the preaching of the film comes naturally from
the characters and who they are, which is a problem with most
faith-based films. Characters will often transform into philosophical
sages when the filmmakers feel it is time to preach, and I think that
just comes across as cheesy and not authentic to non-believers and some
believers. Luckily, Woodlawn avoids that pitfall in its script, which
could have been a little stronger in some areas (in particular in
character depth and their motivations), but unlike most faith-based
films, the good outweighs the bad here. Featuring some truly moving
moments and a slew of well-realized football sequences, Woodlawn is a
faith- based film I actually want to recommend. 

I give Woodlawn an 8 out of 10!
