
Freshman Director Nate Parker creates a picture that is seemingly
inspired by Best Picture winners such as Braveheart, Schindlers List
and 12 Years of Slave, but produces a conventionally formulaic film
lacking aesthetic cohesion, pacing, andÂ subtlety. 

The Birth of a Nation (2016) isn't a remake or reboot of D.W.
Griffith's controversial and widely regarded groundbreaking
masterpiece, but is instead Nate Parker's seemingly ambitious
directorial debut-- a true story revenge tale about Nate Turner, an
African American slave, referred to as "Prophet" by his followers, who
led a Slave rebellion comprised of slaves and free blacks in Virginia
in 1831, approximately 33 years before the Congressional passage of the
13th amendment and abolishment of slavery in all States. After a series
of religious visions and certain atmospheric conditions, Nate Turner
believed he was tasked by God to begin an uprising, his goal was to
awaken the attitudes of whites to the reality of the inherent brutality
in slave-holding and to spread terror and alarm amongst whites-- the
rebellion did not discriminate by age or sex, until it was determined
that the rebellion had achieved sufficient numbers. 

Turner certainly accomplished that, but one could say in vain. The
rebellion left around 60 dead white's- including many defenseless women
and children-- and resulted in the state executing 56 blacks suspected
of having been involved in the uprising. And unfortunately in the
hysteria of aroused fears and anger in the days after the revolt, white
militias and mobs killed an estimated 200 blacks, many of whom had
nothing to do with the rebellion.

The fear caused by Nat Turner's insurrection and the concerns raised in
the emancipation debates that followed resulted in politicians and
writers responding by defining slavery as a "positive good". Across
Virginia and other southern states, state legislators passed new laws
to control slaves and free blacks. They prohibited education of slaves
and free blacks, restricted the rights of assembly for free blacks,
withdrew their right to bear arms and voting, and required white
ministers to be present at all black worship services. So one could
definitely say the revolt was ultimately an utter failure. 

The story about Nate Turner has been something of a passion project for
Freshman director Nate Parker, who-- for all intents and purposes-- had
full creative authority on this production as the writer, director,
producer and lead actor. In what is the most violent slave revolt in
U.S history it definitely is a story worth telling on screen, but one
better told accurately; and as far as violence is concerned Parker
delivers a solid account in its depiction. But Parker certainly cherry
picks his character development aspects and plays down Nate Turner's
religious zeal and tries to show the rebellion as a success and skips
showing us the post revolt brutality instead strangely delegating that
duty to the end credits. 

The washed out aesthetic to the cinematography looks cheap, and is
accompanied by a soaring score that oftentimes is overbearing. Despite
the beautiful Georgia landscapes and a few great shots, Elliot Davis
mostly delivers conventional cinematography, instead of showing the
dramatic material in a visually arresting way, wasting great
opportunities to be a character in and of itself. 

The dialogue is a bit cheesy and unconvincing. This includes a routine
sentimentalism that keeps the movie grounded in a series of
conventional beats. Turner's stump speech feels especially
heavy-handed.

The weakest aspect is the pacing. Unfortunately there's a
conventionality to the somewhat mediocre and predictable storytelling
that remains monotonous throughout. Parker plays it a bit too safe, and
wastes many opportunities to build narrative momentum.

Aside from Nate Turner the characters just feel a bit thin and
underdeveloped and to some extent unbelievable. Parker fails to sell us
on Turner's visions. The best aspect of this film is Nate Parker's
solid performance but the rest of the cast delivers unmemorable
performances with most filling stock roles. 

All in all the delivery of the film seems a bit too heavy handed to
seriously be considered a great film. It's like The Patriot or The
Alamo more than Braveheart or Schindler's list in that sense. Nate
Parker takes a great story but fails to deliver a memorable picture by
using conventional storytelling methods in a bid to drive home an
agenda that'll launch a debate instead of delivering a masterpiece to
be remembered for decades. This film could have really been something
amazing had a better filmmaker (less afraid to take risks) taken the
reigns.
<|_=00=_|>
I strongly disapprove of the fact that this movie has gotten a lot of
IMDb thumbs-down from people who most likely haven't seen it, but just
disapprove of a movie about slavery, as well as one whose director has
a problematic past.

However, that's not what I'm writing about here. I DID see the film (at
a film festival), and my disappointment is based on the movie itself,
not politics or anything else external. "The Birth of a Nation" is
about a very important chapter in US history, yet it sanitizes that
history to a ridiculous degree. I think most non-blatant-racists can
agree that an uprising amongst slaves is a thing that inherently
generates empathy. Yet this movie apparently doesn't agree--it needs to
sanitize the mental health of Nat Turner (who was on record as saying
God directly told him what to do from an early age) as well as pretend
women & children weren't chilled in the Turner uprising. I'm not saying
these things were justifiable. What I'm saying is that they're part of
a complex historical record, and shouldn't have been left out of a
movie that purports to tell the "truth." That would be fine if "Birth"
were one of many Nat Turner movies out there, but it's the only one
most people are likely to see. 

It's also a pandering, middle-of-the-road "inspirational" movie, so
much less complex a take on slavery than the recent "12 Years a Slave."
While that movie was a work of art, this is more like a TV movie in
style and content. I just wasn't impressed by it. I wish somebody would
make great Nat Turner movie. This isn't it. And sorry, a bad populist
telling of the tale isn't better than no telling.
<|_=00=_|>
The Birth of Nation tells the story of Nat Turner as he treks through
his life of brutality and slavery at the hands of brutal plantation
owners in 19th century Southern America only to lead a slave rebellion
to exact revenge on his oppressors. First off, this film is shrouded in
controversy and hype while masking itself with the notion that this is
an important film. In the hands of a more capable director, The Birth
of a Nation could have been a truly mesmerizing film but Nate Parker's
overly ambitious and slightly egotistical vision is hard to swallow for
all the wrong reasons. The film starts with young Nat Turner playing
with the son of his slave master, Samuel. Nat is a special boy as he
learns to read and write at a young age with the help of his slave
owner Elizabeth Turner (Penelope Ann Miller). From that point on, we
see Nat Turner (Nate Parker) and Samuel Turner (Armie Hammer) as
adults. The two are friends but Nat must still walk on egg shells due
to his status as a slave. The story progresses very slowly, showing
Samuel in a financial bind and Nat living a comfortable life (with all
things considering) with his wife Cherry. Samuel eventually exploits
Nat as a preacher to the slaves and even makes money off of him as a
preacher of gospel in order to keep the slaves docile and calm. As he
is carted off to multiple plantations for sermons, he sees the horrors
of slavery first-hand and decides, after a brutal (fictious) rape on
Cherry, to rebel and cause an uprising. The film is a sad one. It is
sad because of slavery, because of the brutality, yes...but the saddest
part of The Birth of a Nation is the idea of what could have been. The
film is a vicious display of violence and brutality with a one-sided
and very historically inaccurate story. While many people are not privy
to Nat Turner's rebellion, it still does not excuse the poorly
constructed storyline based around the idea of a rape and religious
visions in order to fuel the Nat Turner character's motives as if
Parker was not confident enough in telling the true life story and the
real reasons behind why Turner rebelled. Much like this year's Free
State of Jones, The Birth of a Nation screenplay is haphazard and very
amateur in its execution. The women characters are mere pawns that have
little to no dialog and the dialog they are given is so unsubstantial
that it lessens the impacts of their actions...especially when the
Cherry character's rape is such an integral part to Parker's telling of
the story. The acting is powerful at times and Parker gives a good
performance but it is a performance that you can't take seriously at
moments. He is an actor that can have you tear up in one scene and
unintentionally laugh at another whether it is because of a line
delivery or some of his overly dramatic scowls. Gabrielle Union, who
plays Esther, the muted rape victim is also amazing in her role. Armie
Hammer also shows glimpses of a great performance especially because
his character had a much more interesting sub-plot to delve into and
the film really never gave it a second thought outside of a single
scene scored to overtly dramatic music. The filmmaking is the downfall
here. The Birth of a Nation is painfully slow in its first hour and
very chaotic in its second. It reeks of an inexperienced filmmaker and
left me genuinely surprised especially because of the hype that we've
heard about this film. Honestly, I've seen History Channel specials
with better productions. The blue tint is overbearing, the actual
camera work is too close and honed in on its subjects, the sound is
flat and the editing is so erratic that it's very hard to keep track of
what's going on. Overall, The Birth of a Nation is less 12 Years a
Slave and more Free State of Jones. It may be an important story but it
is far from an important film.
<|_=00=_|>
Nate Parker's stirring portrayal of Nat Turner's rebellion is a film
that tries extremely hard to be something more than what it is. This is
not the Oscar contender you read it to be, this is not some revelation
in the vein of Roots, this is just another slavery film. Nate Parker's
film sheds no new light on the brutality of slavery and does his
absolute best to make sure you despise the white villains in this as
anyone should as they are portrayed with much relish from the actors
especially Jackie Earle Haley's menacing slave owner that serves as the
main villain of the film. The problems that The Birth of a Nation has
are ones that exist in it's director's overbearing ego and overwhelming
goal to bring something powerful to the table. Parker succeeds
haphazardly unfortunately. The Birth of a Nation tells the story of Nat
Turner, a preacher turned rebellion leader as he fights racism in the
south with a violent and brutal fist. The film is powerful and Jackie
Earle Haley and Gabrielle Union are absolute gems in this film, with
Union giving the best performance of her career and Nate Parker
giving...well, a performance. The problems here lie with the film
itself. The story plays like a more realistic version of Django
Unchained, even lifting some inspiration from that film a little too
heavily for the scenes in which the slaves are beaten and abused.
However, the film also delves into the religious aspects of Turner so
heavy handedly that it borders along the fine line of a parody more
often than not. The other film that Parker must have had playing on his
tablet while directing some scenes is Braveheart because, the last
battle in particular, is riddled with countless homages to that film
that border plagiarism. Between the way Parker conveys his violence and
the way he immortalizes Nat Turner by making him more of a saint than
he ought to be, the film gradually feels less and less genuine as the
running time winds down. That was my biggest gripe with the film
honestly. Nate Parker failed to convey anything human about Nat Turner
outside of him witnessing the brutalization that went on around him.
There is something divine in the way Parker conveys Turner and it is
just too much for a film that is steeped in this much history and
realism. It fails to accurately portray to rebellion as it happened.
There are very few mentions of what the rebellion actually did in
reality as opposed to what it did in the film. While I am not saying
that Turner's Rebellion was without cause, the film dilutes the harsh
realities of what Turner's Rebellion did. In a sense, I felt it was a
bit disrespectful to the victims of his Rebellion both black and white.
With that being said, this is a film and not a documentary, so there is
some room for some creative liberties, within reason. However, this
does stand as Nate Parker's first directorial effort and, for a first
film, it is a damn fine effort that should lead to more work as a
director. Despite this fact, it still is nowhere near enough to sustain
this as a film worthy of accolades and praise. Quite frankly, there is
a lot wrong with the film. The pacing is either mind-numbingly slow or
so quickly cut and erratic that you can barely grasp what is going on.
Also, the extreme close shots are so constant and abundant that it is
just another contributing factor to it feeling very incoherent. The
story is bland and has been done before and done better despite this
being Nat Turner's first on-screen portrayal, the story has inspired
many films that have come out in recent years such as the previously
mentioned Django Unchained. The sound design, at least on the Sundance
version that I saw, was very flat and felt a bit too post-production
sounding. Despite all this, I can't fully write this film off. There
are some truly powerful performances in the film and some well done
battle sequences to enjoy but other than that, this is an average film.
<|_=00=_|>
I typically love historical films. Having a bachelors degree in history
and an enormous home library consisting of many historical books from
all periods in American and World history, I have a fond knack for this
particular subject.

Unfortunately 2016's "Birth of A Nation" mostly disappoints. This film
feels more like a made for TV movie than a big budget film. The
dialogue felt contrived and the movie was plagued with too many
clichÃ©s. The film also ignores the darker side of the slave rebellion,
in which women and children became innocent victims, along with the
plantation owners.

Birth of a Nation basically paints Nat Turner has an unquestionable
hero, yet the real Nat Turner - if you've ever read any history -
probably wouldn't be considered as a hero by the vast majority of
modern people, considering some of his questionable actions during the
rebellion that left women and children slaughtered.

There wasn't really much of an impact on me by the end of the film, and
I think the film mostly fails to give the viewer a clear or unique
message. In the end, the film mostly feels like a waste of resources.
Historical films should be better than this!
<|_=00=_|>
A good film , though it has extremely violent events , sadism ,
physical abuse , lynchings and other racist excesses . Nat Turner's
Rebellion , also known as the Southampton Insurrection , is set against
the antebellum South , it follows Nat Turner (Nate Parker), a literate
slave and preacher , he was highly intelligent and learned how to read
and write at a young age and he grew up deeply religious and was often
seen fasting , praying or immersed in reading the stories of the Bible
. Then , his financially strained owner , Samuel Turner (Armie Hammer)
, accepts an offer to use Nat's preaching to subdue unruly slaves .
Later on , there takes place the brutal sexual assault by white men on
Turner's wife (Aja Naomi King) , it feeds a rage that sets the
rebellion in motion . Soon after, , Nat leads a slave rebellion that
took place in Southampton County , Virginia, during August 1831 . As
Nat orchestrates an Southern uprising in the hopes of leading his
people to freedom . 

The film packs crude scenes full of brutality and cruelty in which the
African-American slaves suffer humiliations , flagellation , beating ,
degradation , and mistreats by their owners . As Nat Turner witnesses
countless atrocities - against himself and his fellow slaves . As Nat
Turner well played by Nat Parker carries out an upheaval against the
ruthless proprietaries in the antebellum South , this rebellion
occurred in Southampton Co. VA. August 21- 23, 1831 . Nat Parker gives
an acceptable acting as the literate slave and preacher who
orchestrates a bloody riot . Support is frankly fine , such as :
PenÃ©lope Anne Miller , Aja Naomi King , Gabrielle Union , Mark Boone
Junior , Colman Domingo , Aunjanue Ellis , Dwight Henry , and special
mention for Jackie Earle Haley as the villain slave hunter Raymond Cobb
, among others . It displays a thrilling as well as sensitive musical
score by Henry Jackman , adding evocative African songs . Colorful
cinematography by Elliot Davis , being shot on a former plantation
between Springfield and Clyo, Georgia, about thirty miles north of
Savannah . The picture was well shot by Nat Parker and it was filmed in
a month , approx . Nat has filmed with all of the power and realism at
its command but some scenes in exploitation style , including strong
tortures , lashing , rape , grisly killings and many other things .

This Â¨The birth of a nationÂ¨ is correctly based on true events , these
are the followings : Turner rebellion was, according to his own
writings, based on spiritual visions . Turner had various visions , as
"the Saviour was about to lay down the yoke he had borne for the sins
of men, and the great day of judgment was at hand" . Nat attempts to
challenge racism and white supremacy in America, to inspire a riotous
disposition toward any and all injustice in this country and abroad and
to promote the kind of honest confrontation that will galvanize our
society toward healing and sustained systemic change . Led by Nat
Turner, he started with several trusted fellow slaves, and ultimately
gathered more than 70 enslaved and free blacks, some of whom were
mounted on horseback . The rebels traveled from house to house, freeing
slaves and killing all the white people they encountered. Because the
rebels did not want to alert anyone, they discarded their muskets and
used knives, hatchets, axes, and blunt instruments instead of firearms.
The rebel slaves killed from 55 to 65 people, the highest number of
fatalities caused by any slave uprising in the Southern United States.
A white militia with twice the manpower of the rebels and reinforced by
three companies of artillery eventually defeated the insurrection . The
rebellion was put down within a few days, but Turner survived in hiding
for more than two months afterwards . The rebellion was effectively
suppressed at Belmont Plantation on the morning of August 23, 1831.
There was widespread fear in the aftermath of the rebellion, and white
militias organized in retaliation against the slaves. The state
executed 56 slaves accused of being part of the rebellion . In the
frenzy, many non-participant slaves were punished . Approximately 120
slaves and free African Americans were murdered by militias and mobs in
the Ã¡rea . Across the South, state legislatures passed new laws
prohibiting education of slaves and free black people, restricting
rights of assembly and other civil rights for free black people, and
requiring white ministers to be present at all worship services.
<|_=00=_|>
Birth of a Nation is Nate Parker's directorial debut and I was
initially sceptical about watching this film after the harsh criticism
it received and the controversy around the portrayal of the events. The
best way to describe this one for anybody that is not aware of the plot
is "Django Unchained" meets "12 Years a Slave" although toned down
slightly in budget and quality of direction. I loved this film a lot
and the vision and passion that Nate Parker conveys with the script is
unparalleled. Something that I was very concerned about with this film
is whether or not it would fall into the trap of "The Free State of
Jones" because many audiences complained that it was too long and
boring however this film is consistently interesting and thought
provoking from start to finish. Unfortunately, the editing throughout
felt extremely rushed. It was almost as if they were scared to leave
the camera on a character too long in case the audience lost interest
and the editing is overall very sloppy which is one of the major flaws
with the picture. I would have loved to see them take their time with
the shots and extend the film to the 160 Â 170-minute mark to allow for
further character development but I understand why they didn't because
of the hatred that previous similar films received. For the first hour
of the film, it wasn't very emotionally captivating and I struggled to
relate to the characters a lot. The film also loses its footing and
trips over common clichÃ©s within the biographical war drama/ period
piece films which takes away some of the innovation presented by the
mostly superb cinematography. The characters should have been given
more freedom to traverse the world as they often felt detached from the
setting and environment of the film due to a lack of interaction. The
film also features some very thought provoking metaphorical imagery
although it often feels very forced and doesn't blend well with the
structure of the narrative. An additional flaw with the film was that I
felt that Nate Parker was trying way too hard in this role and was
seriously desperate for acting recognition. That's perfectly
understandable as this is his directorial debut although he has often
quite obviously constructed scenes that allow him to stand out and seem
the superior actor in relation to the rest of the cast. Moving away
from criticisms on the film, what I thought it did really well was to
eliminate the stigma surrounding historical settings in the film
industry today where average movie goers often associate historical
events as boring and tedious and I honestly can't imagine anybody being
genuinely bored at this film. It just moves so fast and the events are
truly brutal and relentless. Some of the scenes in this film are
excruciatingly hard to watch and the film isn't scared to push the
boundaries of the "15" certification. This really worked to its
advantage to show the horrifying events although some viewers will be
turned off by the onslaught of violence and torture. The personal peak
of the film for me was the score. So expertly chosen to reflect the
actions on screen and breathe life into scenes that are otherwise quite
bland. The music really worked for me and there wasn't too much to the
point where it felt like a music video much like other titles this year
(Suicide Squad). The gore and injury detail is so well realised,
absolutely horrific and shocking leaving some scenes cemented into
audiences minds for days after watching the film. There was a singular
scene towards the end of the film that absolutely floored me with its
gruelling depiction of violence and rebellion which was followed by an
uplifting and inspiring resolution and overall this film gave me way
more than I could have hoped for or was expecting. The Birth of a
Nation Â 7.8/10
<|_=00=_|>
History favours the brave, but like any form of art, it is also about
perception. Whether that perception is a result of inner expression or
manipulated by external influences, what matters is the manner in which
it is told. Bold, controversial and violent, The Birth of a Nation is a
period drama that is as powerful as it is important. Most of all, this
film functions as a cinematic memorial to one of the first freedom
fighters that would eventually give rise to the American Civil Rights
Movement.

His name was Nat Turner and although not shown in the film, he received
the same fate as the fictionalized William Wallace (who was famously
portrayed by Mel Gibson in Braveheart). Played by Nate Parker in his
directorial debut, Nat is a slave with compassion for his fellow
slaves. He is also in good standing with his master Samuel Turner
(Armie Hammer) but the latter has problems of his own, including
mounting debts and alcoholism. They were friends since childhood and
Samuel's mother was the first to notice Nat's incredible ability to
read (this was a time when literacy was considered a gift, and rare
even for white landowners). With this 'ability' Nat is allowed to
preach the Bible to other slaves with the intention of putting the fear
of God into them. It works for some time, until Nat witnesses the ugly
and often heinous atrocities of slavery. The inevitable happens when
Nat perceives scripture as a double-edged sword Â that which justifies
slavery and that which justifies retribution.

Based on the actual 1831 salve rebellion in Virginia, and co-written by
Parker, The Birth of a Nation is a slow burner during its first two
acts. Visual artistry notwithstanding, Parker's nuance is the cogs and
wheels turning in Nat's head. Did he snap or was he disillusioned by
his own sermons? Although the result is an explosive finale that is
both brutal and disturbing, the answer to that question lies in the way
Nat is perceived. With collateral damage on both sides, history has all
but condemned Nat Turner as a mass murderer, much like what English
history says about Scottish freedom fighter William Wallace. But the
director has us believe otherwise; that Nat was more like a hero whose
actions influenced a far bloodier war 30 years later in the
emancipation of slavery, and hence the title.

Yet at its core, this film is a penetrating enquiry into the ongoing
struggles for justice and equality, the fine line between the use and
abuse of authority, and also whether the history taught today is
factual, or eroded, or sanitised. Whether Nat lost his faith or
manipulated scripture to justify his rebellion is of little importance
because The Birth of a Nation is competently made and told with grit.
Like Steve McQueen's relentless 12 Years a Slave before, the theme on
dehumanisation is rampant and doesn't let go even during its most
harrowing moments. Even so, Parker's narrative may not be as flawless
as McQueen's Academy Award winning masterpiece but it's still an
effective undertaking for a debut director; And given the racial uproar
behind the new Trump administration, perhaps even a well-timed film
that takes a stab at a challenging dilemma Â intention versus action.
<|_=00=_|>
After hearing for most of my multi-decaded life that D. W. Griffith's
"The Birth of a Nation" (1915) was a pioneering masterpiece in the film
world I finally watched it in 2009. Then I gave it a 1 star rating and
wrote this in my IMDb review: 

"I find the intellectual airy fairy commentary in the 10's section of
the reviews here to be disturbing. Frankly, I think you people should
be ashamed of yourselves for promoting this disgraceful homage to
slavery and murder. Slavery is at the very least murder of the soul.
But we all know that was the least of it's offenses. "The Birth of a
Nation" is a bad film because it promotes a reprehensible ideology. The
merits of it's production values are irrelevant. And not that it should
make a difference but for the record, I am a southern white male."
Readers at IMDb have rewarded me with a 46/92 rating. What a surprise. 

What we have here 100 years later in the new "The Birth of a Nation"
(2016), finally, is the truth about slavery. Even "12 Years a Slave"
was too cowardly to go where Nate Turner has gone. THAT film, "12 Years
a Slave", would have you believe that some slave owners were
benevolent. Really... 

This film is unflinching in its accurate portrayal of what slavery in
America was like. It is stomach turning to watch the horrific beatings,
rapes, torture, and just general bondage of people; and what other
choice could there possibly be? Not showing it and pretending it didn't
happen? Then add that it was conducted as routine commerce. Yes, other
humans, slaves, were bought and sold; and there were no legal
restrictions on what you could do to that person. These Crimes Against
Humanity were done in the name of God, Christianity, and the U.S.
Constitution. In the 40's when it was Hitler and the Holocaust we
prosecuted and executed those responsible. Here, we just call it a
difference of opinion and "states rights". Ask yourself this: is it
possible to be a Christian in America during the slave holding years
and, own, beat, and rape, other people because they have a different
skin color than you; and then when you die be welcomed by God into
Heaven? Just wondering. 

The performances by Nate Turner, Amie Hammer, Penelope Ann Miller, and
others, are sensational for their commitment to authenticity. Actors
are notorious for weakening their portrayals by forcing a sympathetic
facet into the inventory of an utterly unsympathetic character. Kind of
like trying to show the human side of Hitler. Armie Hammer does not
fall into that trap. I knew he was in this film but I had trouble
finding him only to discover that he was the behind the unrepentant
face of a vicious slave owner with zero redeeming qualities. That takes
guts and talent. Nate Turner is also good. His only weakness is that he
is wearing so many hats in this production: lead actor, director,
producer, screenwriter, etc. Being in that position is tough and he
does it well. But he does a better job as director for his fellow cast
members. His character, Nat Turner, is lynched in the end; and
apparently with the many portrayals of lynchings inventoried in
American cinema over the last 100 years plus, it has taken an African
American producer/director/writer/actor to present that horrifying
event from the perspective of the man being lynched/murdered. It is
powerful and about damn time. 

Apart from this film's well crafted and honest depiction of the worst
chapter in American history, it has served to magnetically draw out
current day racists. This film turns race baiting on its head by
telling the whole truth about slavery and drawing out racists who
cannot handle it. Need proof? Read some of the reviews here with 6
stars or less. What's most amazing is that these reviewers are not even
ashamed of themselves. So, racists? Unload! I'm looking for a worse
than 46/92 here. Come on. I know you can do it.
<|_=00=_|>
"You got purpose, its in you." Nat Turner (Parker) is a different type
of slave. He is literate and a preacher. He is treated better than most
slaves and remains calm and obedient. When he begins to speak to other
slaves around the south he notices mistreatment and worse. No longer
able to stand by and do nothing he leads a slave revolt that ends up
changing the country. Going in I was expecting "another brutal slave
movie" along the lines of 12 Years A Slave. While it did not shy away
from the horror of slavery it was more about the reasons that led up to
the uprising and had more of a Free State Of Jones feel than 12 Years A
Slave. That fact alone made this easier to watch. I'm not 100% sure how
historically accurate the movie is but it is a movie that should be
seen and understood. Things like this can happen and people can take a
stand not based on how they are treated, but how they see others
treated. That is an important lesson. Overall, easier to watch than 12
Years A Slave and one that is very much worth seeing, but nothing earth
shattering either. I give this a B.
