
The story is complex: Ray is a boy who was born into a girl's body.
Craig and Matthew are his biological and emotional fathers, Frances and
Dolly are his grandmother and lesbian lover, and Maggie, his long
suffering Mum who tries to manage the whole family. Ray is going
through the process of becoming a boy and the film follows him through
part of the journey with all the pitfalls and emotions there is. The
dialogue is genuine, the direction is superb, the acting is first
class, even from Naomi Watts who plays Maggie, an actor I don't really
like but she takes on this role competently. Elle Fanning shines out
like an acting sun, eclipsing everyone around her and becoming the
hinge pin that the entire story revolves around. She displays almost
every single emotion a human is capable of and acts far, far beyond her
17 years. She earned Â£65,000 from this movie, that's a pittance for her
performance, it's probably one of the 10 best I've ever seen. Don't
miss this, it will stay in your memory for a long time.
<|_=00=_|>
About Ray is a fresh take on a family drama that most people can relate
to in some way.

All families have their problems, and this family is no exception. They
show a glimpse of what it is like to have to live in a body that you
don't identify with and the complications that go with it. 

It is a feel good movie that shows that family can overcome anything
together, no matter how dysfunctional.

All of the lead actresses are amazing, and the set is really one of a
kind.

Check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
Trigger Warning(s):

Transphobia (One Scene of Bullying but mostly misgendering)

Noted Actor(s)

Ray (Elle Fanning) | Maggie (Naomi Watts) | Dolly (Susan Sarandon)

Characters & Storyline

Ray

Since Ray was 4 he knew he was born in the wrong body. Now 12 years
later, after a lot of therapy, and dealing with his feminist grandma
trying to convince him perhaps he was just a butch lesbian, it is time.
However, in order to transition to becoming a male it requires not just
his mom signing off on the various paperwork, which would include
getting testosterone, but also the father he hasn't seen in almost a
decade.

Maggie

Your daughter is becoming your son, you live with your two moms and the
one who is your biological mom seems to make snide comments about your
life all the time. It's a bit much to handle and no amount of books can
really prep or help. But life happens and despite how uncomfortable
things are, you have to learn to adapt right? If you don't it could
negatively affect your child and at the end of the day, that's who
matters the most right?

Highlights

A Different Perspective

Whether it is I Am Jazz, Redefining Realness, Star, Orange is the New
Black, Gun Hill Road, Tangerine, Paris is Burning or countless other
media out there, more often than not the focus is masculine assigned
persons transitioning to women. Rarely is there anything about someone
transitioning the other direction, outside of the various roles Elliot
Fletcher (who pretty much corners that market) has played, that
character on House of Lies, and Cole on The Fosters. Be it because less
of an eye is bat when someone assigned a girl transitions to a boy, or
because there isn't the same curiosity and ability to sensationalize.
Either way, it was nice to get a taste, just a taste mind you, of the
issues FTM trans people go through. Be it boys who misgender you and
bully you for it, girls who you have feelings for not seeing you for
the man you are, your family adjusting and maybe some of them even
feeling betrayed you'd leave the ranks of womanhood to become a man,
much less your parents coming to terms with the change.

Susan Sarandon

A part of me wishes that Sarandon's character was raising Ray as
opposed to Maggie. If only because, as noted below, Maggie's drama
almost seems like it wants to compete for attention and eclipse the
movie's central topic. But it isn't just because of Maggie's drama I'd
prefer Sarandon playing the parental role but also because Dolly, her
character, brings something different to the complicated matter of a
family member transitioning. She is the one which helps push the
difference which comes from dealing with an MTF transitioning person
vs. an FTM. Also, she is basically the comic relief but without making
herself, or rather the character, a joke in the process.

Criticism

Maggie

Parents play a major role when it comes to the lives of trans people.
They are perhaps one of the most important figures in finding
acceptance and of course learning what it means to be a man or women.
But the problem here with Maggie is as the movie tries to craft a life
for Maggie it adds all this eye-roll inducing drama in terms of Ray's
father and her relationship with him. Which, at first, you're OK with
since we are invited into these characters' lives while they are in
their late teens, in Ray's case, and likely the 40s of Maggie. However,
slowly but surely, it seems like Maggie wasn't there to share focus
with Ray's or even have her story-line support Ray's. At a certain
point, it seemed like Maggie's story-line was competing with Ray's for
prominence and it was more about Maggie's troubled relationship than
her son trying to complete their transition and start a new life.

Overall: Mixed (Home Viewing)

You know how most MTF movies solely feature that character, their
relationships with people, and tries to disillusion the viewer on their
experience. Yeah, this movie kind of does that but then focuses too
much on the mom and her drama, her relationships, to the point it makes
it so while you may have watched this movie to learn about Ray, you end
up learning a hell of a lot more about Maggie. Which would have been
fine if that was how this was marketed, and maybe why the title was
changed to Three Generations, but no one cares about Maggie. Maggie's
story is tired and old. Which is why this is being labeled Mixed (Home
Viewing) because you come for Ray, to learn about his life and what it
is like to be a young man transitioning, which we don't really see
except in supporting characters. Yet, instead, get another story about
a privileged white woman trying to avoid responsibility and making
things about her.
<|_=00=_|>
Ray (Elle Fanning) is a 16-year-old who was born as Ramona but has felt
for years that he's a male inside a female body. As he tries to begin
the medical transgender process, it will open up much family angst and
discord. Additionally, because of his age, Ray will require the
parental consent of his absentee father which will lead to more
emotional upheaval and the uncovering of some hidden family secrets.

Although the film's heart may be in the right place, I thought the
dialogue often came across as contrived, strident, and melodramatic,
which made it a difficult watch for me. The movie does have a poignant
and uplifting ending though.

All in all, although I felt for Ray, who seemed the only one who was
not conflicted about what he wanted to do, the movie itself did not
seem like the best of vehicles to bring transgender issues to the
forefront.
<|_=00=_|>
Gaby Dallel's "3 Generations" drew criticism for the casting of a
cisgender person in the role of a transgender character. While that is
an issue, the movie itself is worth seeing. It shows how the different
family members deal with the news that the daughter is transitioning to
male. In fact, the lesbian grandmother has the hardest time dealing
with it (I've noticed that a number of gays and lesbians, while
fighting for their own rights, have ignored transgender rights).

I wouldn't call the movie a masterpiece, but I think that it addresses
some good issues. It's the sort of movie that could only get released
in the 2010s, when understanding of gender-nonconforming people became
widespread. I recommend it. I guess that the distribution by The
Weinstein Company now looks unpleasant due to the ugly revelations
about Harvey Weinstein, but that doesn't change the movie itself.
Really good one. As expected, Elle Fanning, Naomi Watts and Susan
Sarandon all turn in fine performances.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading other reviews and thinking about the film, I realize just
how complex it really is. On first glance the main subject appears to
be the character Ray/Ramona played beautifully by Elle Fanning, but
it's actually not. The subject or theme I believe is the three
generations of women in one family, and the problems/identity issues
each one is grappling with. 

Each character is representative, to an extent, of her own generation.
The oldest generation represented by the character played by Susan
Sarandon, Dodo, is an artsy, self-confident lesbian who has a life
partner but is not married to her, presumably not only because they got
together way before marriage was even an option, but because they had a
"who needs a marriage certificate" attitude. Sarandon's character is
the "man" in the family.

Then there's the middle generation, represented by Naomi
Watts'character. She also represents her generation, which encompasses
some "me generation" qualities, including sleeping with her boyfriend's
brother, and having a kind of laid-back almost apathetic personality.
She is dominated both by her mother and her child.

And then there's Elle Fanning's character, representing a youth of
today for whom it's totally natural to believe she was born in the
wrong gender and all she needs to do is take meds and have surgery and
everything will be set right. S/he also has the very confident, almost
arrogant mindset that she's entitled to say anything she thinks or
feels to her parents, grandparents, and anyone else who's within
earshot.

In fact, when Dodo (Sarandon) says to Ray "It's time we have a man in
the family" it like she's handing the reins over to him. This is part
of the film's happy ending which is nice, if unrealistic. But I liked
both the ending and the entire film as it is engaging, has excellent
acting, and is visually very downtown New York.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie tackles a difficult subject very appropriate for today, with
drama but also mild humor. The network of family this teen is growing
in, is a diverse cross section of modern families. And though they are
living a more progressive lifestyle, this goes to show how difficult
this transition period can be for any family. With ties to a child's
birth gender and realizing the changes that come with a decision to
honor one's own feelings of who they are, families struggle no matter
how open minded they may think they are. Or how imperfect they see
themselves. This was done with amazing sensitivity to the fact that
families are comprised in many different ways, showing the emotions
that come when people choose to love, take risks and work towards
supporting one another. This may become a cult film as the world
catches up with this very real struggle, and the love that overcomes
the fear.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this at home as a Netflix streaming movie. 

The story here involves a heated topic in many circles, the idea that a
person may be born into a gender that is not appropriate for who they
really are. Many on the "conservative" side, especially of they are
also fundamental religious, firmly believe that if you are born a girl
that is what you are supposed to be, learn to live with it, wanting to
transition to a boy should never be an option. 

Many on the "liberal" side firmly believe that a person needs to be
true to themselves and if that means switching genders then they are
supportive. In addition there are whole bunches of people who don't
care either way.

This movie was written and directed by women, one of them is a formerly
married mother of three. The core story involves a 16-yr-old girl who
has felt for most of her life that she was really a boy born with
female parts. She pilots her skateboard, she dresses like a boy, she
cuts her hair short. And now as the story confronts us she is
requesting her mom's permission to enter a program to "transition" to a
boy. She wants to get a fresh start at a new school and as a boy. 

A wrinkle is that her dad, whom she has no contact for the last 10
years or so, has to sign the form also.

Elle Fanning who otherwise is good at glamour type female roles is
really good here as Ray, I found myself really believing this girl
could want to be a boy. Her grandmom is played well by Susan Sarandon
as Dolly, who supports her daughter, loves her and wants her to be
happy, but just doesn't know how to react to her daughter's request.
And there is Naomi Watts, good as the mom, Maggie, also mostly puzzled
about how to react. In an interesting additional role Linda Emond is
Frances, the lesbian partner of Dolly.

I think there is no doubt about the leanings of those who made this
movie, but regardless of a particular viewer's own leanings the movie
can be appreciated for the story it tells, there is no running away and
sticking heads in the sand, the transgender issue is here and it will
stay and this movie gives an excellent view of the landscape.

I enjoyed watching it, good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Gaby Dallal directs her own screenplay (co-written with Nikole
Beckwith) in what is one of the most significant films abut the gender
perception changing world in which we live. It is a very intelligent,
humorous, sensitive and wholly entertaining film that has the courage
to open the conflicts that face transgender people and their families. 

Family living under one roof in New York must deal with a life-changing
transformation by one that ultimately affects them all. Ray (Elle
Fanning) is a teenager who has come to the realization that he isn't
meant to be a girl and has decided to transition from female to male.
His single mother, Maggie (Naomi Watts), must track down Ray's
biological father (Tate Donovan Â or his brother Sam Trammell) to get
his legal consent to allow Ray's transition. Dolly (Susan Sarandon),
Ray's lesbian grandmother, living with her life partner Frances (Linda
Emond) is having a hard time accepting that she now has a grandson.
They must each confront their own identities and learn to embrace
change and their strength as a family in order to ultimately find
acceptance and understanding.

The entire cast is exceptional and as always Naomi Watts, Susan
Sarandon, and Elle Fanning are superb Â wholly credible in their
challenging roles. But there are also some fine small parts, such as
the therapist Dr. Brillstein (Andrew Polk) and Frances (Linda Emond)
who stand out as bight lights that enhance the story.

All in all an excellent film on every level and one that deserves a
very large audience. Highly Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
The fine actresses drew me to see this movie. And they do act well. As
for the story - that's another thing. It seems like some indie films
are trying to outdo each other in finding the most bizarre and novel
family combination possible. This one has lesbian grandmothers, unwed
mother who slept with 2 brothers, and the central focus a girl wanting
to transition to a boy. Didn't really get much insight into the mind of
a transgender. The little melodrama is more on the contrived side.

Elle Fanning is a strange choice to play the central character. She
still acts and looks very feminine with her sweet smile and delicate
features. K Stew would have been better in this role. Naomi Watts can
act anything well and she kept me watching a rather tiresome and
unsympathetic character. Susan Sarandon is fun to watch.

Not really worth watching.
