
For the movie I gave it an 8. That's based on 32 years of military
service, 7 combat tours (3 in Iraq) and working with the likes of the
characters in the movie. Sorry for those who's lives were so well
protected that they've never been exposed to the likes of us but,
that's how we talk and act. It's a type-A environment and we use it to
protect ourselves and motivate our brothers in arms.

I am well versed on the facts as provided by the MSM however, as
someone in the biz I also know that the fly in the ointment are the
facts.

1. The firing of mortars is an art and the mortar launcher has to be
anchored to the ground or every mortar will land off target. The
mortars landing on the CIA compound are dead accurate and also require
spotters to assist with any corrections.

2. Aviano AB, Italy is about 2-hours away. Had they been launched, even
if only to do a low fly-by, would have driven off the attackers; just
like I used them in Iraq in Mosul, Tikrit, and Baghdad. I don't know
why the Commander of the 555 (Triple Nickel) didn't launch. It's one of
the big questions that remain unanswered by the media or the movie.

3. Hillary's statement that, "Was it because of a protest or was it
because of guys out for a walk one night who decided they'd go kill
some Americans?" was a red herring. Because it was neither. As later
testimony bore out, it was a planned, coordinated, terrorist attack on
the anniversary of 9/11.

4. All UAS aircraft are armed. As stated in the movie could have
assisted in the defense of the embassy or the CIA compound.

5. General Ham, AfricaCom CC is someone I worked with in Mosul in 2004
for 6-months. Good guy and I know from my experience he would not
hesitate to act if allowed. One day he'll give an interview and get his
whole story. Can't wait...

Rick274 Colonel (Retired) 274ASOS/CC
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie to be very intense and riveting. The audience seemed
to have a need to make an unusual number of trips to the snack bar and
rest room and I found myself becoming frustrated by the number of
interruptions. The movie is not for the faint of heart, as there are a
number of scenes with graphic depiction of injuries. Regardless of your
political affiliation, if you have any thoughts about what happened at
Benghazi, you need to see this movie. Michael Bay does a great job of
portraying what happened. Additionally, with the exception of one
individual who s portrayed as not wanting to take action, he does not
take the obvious opportunity to lay blame at any single individual in
the US government. He clearly portrays a small group of men as heroes.
Without their courage and willingness to fight against what appears to
be an overwhelming force many more lives would have been lost. I do not
often see movies twice, but this movie is likely to be an exception...
In closing, if Michael Bay is 90% accurate in his depiction of what
happened, our government (the US government), owes a huge debt of
gratitude and an apology for their lack of action to 6 very brave men.
<|_=00=_|>
Michael Bay did a masterful job of capturing the attacks on the U.S.
compounds and the gallant efforts to save the ambassador and the other
U.S. staff. He did an equally great job of showing career bureaucrats
at work.

It's too bad the film didn't include scenes showing the president being
briefed on the attack and then going to bed in order to get some rest
before his fund-raiser in Las Vegas. It would have been powerful to
contrast what was happening in Benghazi and the presidents actions
while the attack was still taking place. 

What's truly sad is how these people were abandoned by the politicians.
It's also sad to think the late Ambassador Stevens had made 600 plus
requests to Hillary Clinton for additional security, all ignored.
<|_=00=_|>
The overall experience of the World Premiere was incredible, but this
Movie in any venue would be worth the price of admission.

Like most, I've seen hoards of "Action Movies", but the compressed time
line and episodic nature of this one puts you into a pressure cooker
that leaves you drained at the end. Probably more firepower per minute
than in any true life account ever shown on the Big Screen.

In the final moments, though, you realize just how much these men lost.
Few if any other team of six would have survived such relentless and
massive assaults. But more than anything, it will force you to ask
yourself why our government literally left these men and the people
they saved, to die.
<|_=00=_|>
Riveting Authenticity is the first feeling I had when the movie ended.
After watching these events unfold. If you don't feel for these real
life men, soldiers, heroes, Americans.... You may want to consider a
frontal lobotomy. Or just stop reading and/or watching anything
political. This work is best viewed after removing the talking points/
talking heads. Only recount the actual time line of events from the
Bengasi hearings on c-span. This work gives a mega phone to those who's
voices where dismissed and a heart to those who can never speak again.
Michael Bay clearly did the right thing by taking direction from those
who where actually there. That is evident throughout the movie and
really gives a heightened authenticity. One of the best historical war
movies ever. Several emotions smack you hard throughout this movie. The
acting was very well done by pretty much everyone. John Krasinski
probably impressed me the most. I have not enjoyed much of anything he
has done since the office. This is a rare film in that I will want to
see again. I hope this work can help heal a country that was stabbed in
the gut by the attempt to muddle the facts from that day.
<|_=00=_|>
Telling this story needed to be done and done right. Amazingly, Michael
Bay achieves true greatness with this effort. I'm overwhelmed because
no one could have known Bay had this movie in him as a director.

This is a masterful film in almost every aspect and certainly in every
way that truly matters. Maybe knowing the real life set up and cover up
to these events helps elevate the appreciation of what hits the screen
but the film holds up well even if a viewer is unaware of world
affairs. The premeditated, brutal attack in 2012 on two United States
installations in Benghazi, Libya is a dark chapter in not only the war
on terror but in U.S. history in general. Expertly depicting the events
surrounding those attacks with such tension and emotion is a credit to
this film and those that made it. This includes the remarkable cast who
each were superb in their roles. Maybe the first act was a bit long as
characters were established and maybe the over use of shaky cam early
can be considered technical flaws but when a story is this well told
and this well crafted, flaws like that fall quickly by the waste side.

The movie draws you in and makes you feel like you were there on that
fateful night. Without getting overly political, it informs the viewer
of what happened in riveting detail. It leaves the "why did this happen
and who is to blame" for the viewer to decide. The courage on display
and the charisma of those that serve comes across in a big way. That
(along with current political consequences) is reason enough why this
story needed to be told. Thank God that they did it justice.
<|_=00=_|>
Benghazi.

In this age of bitter rhetoric, the name conjures all manner of furor
and blame. A small stinging wound to honor and prestige - a name to
carry hate and zealotry.

Michael Bay, OF ALL PEOPLE, was able to peer into the 2012 attack on US
diplomatic and intelligence resources, and capture one hell of a war
story. Going into this movie, I expected a number of things. Among them
were gratuitous explosions, jingoistic flag waving, and tough-guy tired
clich√©s. I did not get what I was expecting.

Instead, Bay, his cast, and his filmmaking team have brought out a
solid, technically informed, faithfully rendered account of those who
were caught in the conflagration - how they found themselves there, how
they fought for their lives, and how they made it out...or didn't.
There's no political agenda here. The only agenda is to show warriors
(who are also real people, with cares, and hopes and flaws) engaged in
struggle, with all the courage, and luck, horror, and terrible splendor
that is timeless.

And in the end, there's no war worship - only somber reflection on the
nature of struggle, and what it does to these warriors. This is a clear
and worthy work for that. Bravo.
<|_=00=_|>
I had to give the movie 13 Hours a solid 10. I am a huge fan of true
stories and movies that are based off books, especially when the story
is filmed true to the real. This thrill riveting masterpiece not only
captivated the lives of these six soldiers and the people trapped
between this battle between the Libyan rebels, but Michael Bay did an
excellent job with his use of guns and sound system that he always does
so well. You can't help but stay on the edge of your seats as you hope
these brave men all make it to the end of the movie. This movie has non
stop violence while these heroic soldiers attempt to rescue the
ambassador as well as help the American residents escape. This movie
will have you racing against time as we relive this Sept 11, 2012 event
also called the "Battle of Benghazi."
<|_=00=_|>
As polarizing as this movie is just put your politics aside and watch
it. The attack is a part of history that deserves to be put on screen
in as grand and well produced manner as can be. And in that sense it
succeeds. The filming in Morocco and Malta captures a really on
location feel. 

The battles are well done and engaging, not over the top. It was a bit
confusing at times distinguishing the main characters. Maybe they
shouldn't have had beards for the movie because it made them look
alike. Jon Krasinski and James Badge Dale, Max Martini and Dominic
Fumusa are all good as the heroes. There is just enough background with
kids and wives shown to put a human element to the people. Whatever
your politics is, they were brave. Liked Jon Krasinki's characters
statement about dying over there at the end.

The journey under fire from the embassy to the annex was gripping. The
prolonged gunfire and mortar attack on the annex was quite scary too.
It was chaotic but as long as you kept the 2 compounds separate in your
mind it was okay. Initially, a little bit less back and forth between
scenarios would have been better. 

There are the "bad" good guys - the incompetent CIA people especially
the chief who gives the infamous and disputed "Stand down" order. Wish
they had shown a bit more of the Ambassador's death and recovery of his
body but maybe it was just too disheartening for the screen. 

Some people against the movie are probably just unhappy it was made in
the first place. Apart from the stand down and request for air support
it isn't too directly critical of the administration. There might not
be a way to make a movie about Benghazi that actually could make the
haters happy. 

Watch this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
"Things change fast here in Benghazi." Jack Silva (Krasinski) has just
been reassigned as a guard for the US diplomatic compound in Benghazi,
Libya. What starts off as a routine assignment changes on September 11,
2012. When a group of insurgents breach the Embassy and attempt to kill
the US Ambassador, Jack and his group of 6 have to make a decision.
Follow orders and stay away, or disobey their commander and go help
their fellow soldiers. I was looking forward to watching this, but I
was also a little worried at the same time. The story is interesting
and somewhat controversial and is a perfect idea for a movie, but it
was directed by Michael Bay. For that reason I was expecting a lot of
special effects and explosions and didn't think he was the director
that should be in charge of this story. I'm not ashamed to admit that I
was wrong. This is a realistic war movie that doesn't embellish the
drama or actions, mainly because the story didn't need it. The movie is
not political at all and mainly focus on the soldiers decisions. I
liked it more than I expected to. Overall, not just a surprisingly good
Michael Bay movie, a good movie period. I give this a high B+.
