
Here's a surprise: The Gift is a mature thriller that's more complex
and classy than the trailers suggest. I don't know what caused the
marketing department to make the film look like such a second-rate,
cheap, predictable thriller that somehow had gotten ahold of talented
actors, but now we know the truth. As Joel Edgerton's directorial
debut, it's impressive, considering the sense of craft going on behind
the camera. The cinematography is gorgeous and the pacing is that of a
slow burn, but it's never dull. The premise is also deceptively simple,
turning more intricate and involving as the film progresses.

Edgerton, who also wrote the screenplay, refuses to adhere to genre
conventions, constantly subverting audience's expectations on how the
story plays out. Red herrings, plot twists, shifting perspectives, and
moral ambiguity ensue, but they never feel cheap. Like the best
thrillers, The Gift evolves naturally and realistically. Edgerton and
Rebecca Hall are great, but it is Jason Bateman who impresses. As a
natural comedian actor, he plays one of his rare, serious roles to
terrific effect. But I digress. You should go into this film with a
clean slate, but know that it is a rare, intelligent thriller that
doesn't cheat or spoonfeed its audience. And in that regard, Joel
Edgerton has given us a gift, indeed.
<|_=00=_|>
The Gift is written and directed by Joel Edgerton. It stars Joel
Edgerton, once again, Jason Bateman and Rebecca Hall.

The Gift surrounds a married couple(Jason Bateman, Rebecca Hall) as
they transition into a new job, new house, new neighbors, new friends,
basically a new life. As they shop for furniture Simon(Jason Bateman)
encounters an old acquaintance from High school, Gordon or Gordo(Joel
Edgerton), with a creepy demeanor and an obvious grudge.

The Gift is Hitchcockian. I can't call it anything it isn't. I went
into this movie with medium expectations and left with a newfound
respect and awe for one person. This person is Joel Edgerton. As a
director, he can't do wrong. The shots were inspired and eerie. He cut
at just the right times to ensure the audience is terrified but not
disgusted. As a writer, he can't do wrong. This is honestly one of the
best scripts of the year and I hope it gets an Oscar nomination. It was
so well written. The major player in both the direction and the writing
is that no serious violence was portrayed in any scene in this movie
but yet it manages to crawl under your skin and linger long after the
movie's over. This is partly thanks to the excellent cinematography by
Eduard Grau. Finally as an actor, CAN'T DO WRONG! He was creepy as hell
but yet you some how want to root for him. He plays the role magically
and was by far the best part of this movie. 

Jason Bateman, oh how woefully I doubted you. At first I didn't think
he could pull it off. But he did. He was perfect as well. he was sly
and slimy as well as awkwardly funny and relatable ( before everything
goes down). Rebecca Hall in many ways was the main character. She did
great. Though she wasn't as good as Edgerton or Bateman, she certainly
held her own. Another great aspect of the movie was the soundtrack and
the score. It fit perfectly to the subtly creepy atmosphere. Finally
Since the script was so well written the viewer is left in ambiguity
towards the morals of a character and I find this masterfully executed
with every twist and turn being virtually unpredictable.

All and all I loved this movie. Some might argue that the pacing is a
bit off nut with such a short runtime. Certain things are justifiably
stretched our skimmed. personally I didn't find this much of a problem.
The Gift IS my favorite movie of the year so far and is a must see. The
Gift gets an A+ or a 10/10. Simon says go watch this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
The only more underserved genre for moviegoers besides serious adult
comedies/dramas or immersing fantasies are the classic thriller. The
last truly marvelous, slick thriller that graced multiplexes nationwide
was "Prisoners," an unnerving mystery revolving around the kidnapping
of two young girls, with one father going to desperate lengths to find
them. Since then, marginally passable films like "No Good Deed" have
stumbled into theaters but never left the kind of imprint on audiences
that has them genuinely consumed with fear and uncertainty thanks to
the slickness of a film.

Joel Edgerton's directorial debut "The Gift" is the first thriller that
will leave an imprint on its viewers in a long time for more reasons
than its rich cinematography and expertly paced narrative. It's the
kind of film that gets one to look introspectively at the wrongs
they've committed, in this case, in school, where perhaps a rumor you
helped spread, or even started, went on to scar the victim for life.
Perhaps if you helped spread said rumor, you've moved on, but what if
the person you hurt hasn't forgotten the pain and torment your little
white lie caused? 

"The Gift" examines the idea of an unburied hatchet by focusing on the
young married couple of Simon and Robyn (Jason Bateman and Rebecca
Hall). They've just moved into a beautiful, spacious home, with Simon
finding tremendous success with the company he works for and Robyn
coming to terms with her anxiety and her addiction to prescription
medication. Hoping to start life a new, they are thrown for a loop when
they meet a man named Gordon (nicknamed "Gordo," played by Edgerton) at
a home-appliance store. Gordo is an old classmate of Simon, who barely
recognizes him, yet still, upon even a brief conversation, recalls he's
still four tires short of a car.

Gordo repeatedly makes kind, yet invasive gestures towards Simon and
Robyn, delivering wine, bringing fishes to fill their small pond out
front, and stopping by while Robyn is home alone to keep her company.
While Robyn sees a sensitive, somewhat lost soul in Gordo, Simon sees
nothing but a creep - a persistent creep that has something to prove or
uncover about him that Simon doesn't want revealed. Eventually, when
Gordo's actions turn particularly personal and an apology on his part
is warranted, Simon and Robyn receive a letter asking for "bygones to
be bygones" for something that occurred in the past, to which only
Robyn is left clueless.

The performances here are unanimously strong, particularly from
Bateman, who gives one of his only very serious roles to date here.
Bateman even delivers a powerful monologue before his costar, Hall, who
also does some good work as a troubled woman simply wanting peace of
mind, concerning the "winners and losers" of America and how people are
only held back by personal insecurities and events of the past because
they choose to be. His delivery and conviction here is very strong, as
he deadlocks his eyes into Hall and digs into her, himself, and
everything that occurred in the past in one great scene.

Edgerton, however, has the real challenging role - playing a guy who
can look sweet and nimble, almost neighborly, but also a bit off and
maybe even a little unstable. Edgerton's blank facial expressions find
ways to be amiable, despite his behavior being increasingly troubling,
almost too kind, and the character he creates for himself is one you
struggle to find exactly what's bad about him when "too nice" doesn't
seem to cut it.

Yet Edgerton's craft here is something to really marvel at. Serving as
the writer, director, and co-producer, "The Gift" is essentially his
playground and, in turn, he creates a thrilling funhouse of
Hitchcockian principles and truly absorbing fear. Drenched in dingy,
saturated cinematography, casting a moody light on nearly every scene,
"The Gift"'s atmosphere (thanks to cinematographer Eduard Grau) is a
richly detailed one. The eeriness is very even and understated, and the
fright aspect sneaks up on you like the potentially deeper meaning of a
kind neighbor's gesture. This is a beautiful film in terms of its look
and feel, constantly feeling like its toying with your emotions.

Finally, there's the narrative structure, which is very unlike
Hollywood. Unlike more conventional thrillers, like "No Good Deed,"
"The Gift" doesn't really have that incredulous, explosive moment,
where everything you thought wouldn't happen does and the plausibility
gets sacrificed for theatrics. Sure, there are some great twists,
including one that goes further than I ever expected this film to go,
but never is there that one moment where every ostensibly implausible
thing occurs that effectively derails the entire project in terms of
tone and pacing. "The Gift" remains consistent in creating a feeling of
dread, even when the tables turn and the protagonist and antagonist
lines are blurred.

At the end of the day, however, Edgerton is the real star here. Proving
himself a competent do-all man and not just a gimmicky
actor-turned-director, he molds "The Gift" to his liking and asserts
himself not only as a strong lover of thrillers and Hitchcockian
principles but an actor who can also say, "sit back and watch" when he
goes to do something and actually do it correctly.
<|_=00=_|>
Why as a seasoned movie addict and theatre visitor am I always amazed
at the way the " Blockbusters" get all the press and gossip and
fantastic movies like this slip through the net. Like last years
immense " The Babadook ", this directional debut by Joel Egerton is a
really good thriller and has had nowhere near the media coverage it
deserves. It makes me so angry that the Marvel franchise gets rammed
down our throats on TV and in fast food cafes and masterpieces slip
through the net. Excellently directed and very well acted,this clever
little well - wrapped gift is all we need to let us know that the
proper movie making process is still alive and kicking. Very few
special effects and perfect use of sound( or lack of it in some cases)
with 1 or 2 shocks to keep us going,it carries a clear message of our
past waiting to wreck our future. I think it cleverly slows pace half
way through then wakes up in the last third.Grab it while you can guys
cos this will just go after a week or 2.
<|_=00=_|>
The Gift follows married couple Simon and Robyn who get a unexpected
encounter from Gordo, an acquaintance from Simon's past. At first,
Simon doesn't recognize Gordo, but after a troubling series of
uninvited encounters and mysterious gifts, a horrifying secret emerges.
Little do they know that their perfect lives are about to be thrown
into a terrifying tailspin.

This film standing as Joel Edgerton's directional debut, I must say is
pretty impressive. This was a well crafted thriller put together by
Edgerton, it wasn't as predictable as most thrillers are these days, it
was simply one where our expectations keep getting pummeled to ground
from how the story keeps transitioning.

Everyone in this were simply astonishing, Edgerton played such a
compelling creepy loner with so much aplomb, Hall played her role
perfectly as a depressed woman that can't stress enough with all the
fear and for Bateman, coming from his comedic standpoint, simply
impressed as the husband with one troubling past. Round of applause to
each and everyone!

The film builds an effective sense of suspense and disbelief, you don't
know what to believe from all the turn of events. The story was told so
fluently with the suspense, is wasn't cheap or hasty but more chilling
and grim when it came to the very well paced manner, it doesn't simply
spoonfeed us with everything it's doing but really lets us take the
turn for worst with each surprise hiding at each corner.

The Gift was simply a shot in the dark when it let loose from the
formulaic genre it was hanging off of. This nerve-wracking thriller
maturely sends this main couple spiraling out of control as Edgerton
simply starts to turn their life upside down by downgrading their
relationship piece by piece. You can never tell who's the main
protagonist, Is It Bateman? Is it Hall? Is It Edgerton? You can't
really seem to tell until the surprise-filled ending that takes a
wonderfully warped take on long-ranged karma. The Gift most certainly
gave deliberate pacing, believable characters, and masterful
understanding of cinematic suspense, Edgerton really proved that this
film shouldn't be the last present we receive from him.
<|_=00=_|>
Billed as a mystery and a thriller, Joel Edgerton's The Gift is indeed
both of those and more. The sub genre might be "home invasion" of a
figurative and a real kind, reminiscent of The Hand That Rocks the
Cradle. Equally so it's a home horror film, for some of the traditional
tropes of that genre are in place (e.g., missing dog, running faucet)
waiting around the corner of any room so to speak.

Super security salesman Simon (Jason Bateman) is happily married to
interior designer Robyn (Rebecca Hall). Their new LA home is wall to
wall windows, all the better for bad forces to look in and to
ironically comment on the lack of transparency inside the home as well
as a security expert's vulnerability. Then Simon's old high school
friend, weirdo Gordo (Joel Edgerton), visits with gifts and memories of
a troubled past.

Their home is indeed invaded, not just by nerdy, strange Gordo, who has
a bad habit of showing up at odd times and gaining access at even odder
ones, but by the past, which is creeping up on the couple despite
Simon's will to leave it all behind and Gordo's to "let bygones be
bygones." The film bears its tensions well, distributing its exposition
of the past in the present slowly.

The Gift doesn't just give the present a chance to come to terms with
the past; it also comments on privacy, security, and bullying while
serving up a fine stew of ironies and suspense. As for bullying, not
the first time in a thriller, it plays out from high school days to
adult days in a surprisingly subtle way, forcing us over the long haul
of the film's 108 minutes to see it lurking like a clichéd ghost or
murderer.

Marriage is also a subject in this taut film, namely how much do we
really know about our partners or anyone close to us? This film could
make anyone a skeptic about the goodness of your fellow travelers.
Speaking of which, Gordo is the outsider, whom writer Flannery O'Connor
liked to write about because "he changes things." Gordo is an agent of
change, an avenging angel of the past and a messenger for the future.

Smart thriller for late summer.
<|_=00=_|>
'The Gift' is ostensibly about an upper middle-class married couple 
Simon (Jason Bateman) and Robyn (Rebecca Hall)  who are terrorised by
a ex-classmate of Simon's named Gordo (Joel Edgerton) looking to settle
an old score after their move from Chicago back to the former's Los
Angeles' East Side neighbourhood. And yet, Edgerton, who also wrote the
screenplay, is not just content for his psychological thriller to be
just another B-grade exercise; instead, there are more than a few nasty
surprises in store for an audience jaded by such run-of-the-mill genre
fare, and it is Edgerton's emphasis on character rather than empty
shlock that ultimately pays off in a slow-burn but nevertheless
consistently gripping mystery.

As is typical with such narratives, Simon and Robyn start off as the
picture of marital bliss who are looking to move on from an episode in
the recent past. Simon is starting a new job at a high-profile digital
security firm, and Robyn hopes to get back to her passion as a
freelance designer  but the cracks are there, especially the relics of
a miscarriage. Following a seemingly serendipitous run-at a downtown
furniture store, Gordo leaves a housewarming gift at their doorstep, a
generosity that Robyn feels obligated to repay by inviting him over for
dinner. Thing is, the gifts keep coming, and while Robyn responds by
letting him in out of politeness, Simon is slightly more wary of their
overly hospitable guest. His displeasure comes to a head after Gordo
makes a hasty and prolonged exit no sooner after they arrive at a
surprisingly posh two-storey house upon the latter's dinner invitation.

Upon a stern warning to leave them alone, strange things start
happening around the house. Robyn gets the nagging sense that Gordo is
watching her in the day when she is alone at home, and even starts
hallucinating that he is peeping at her in the shower. The
disappearance of their family dog one day further cements Simon's
suspicion that Gordo hasn't taken too kindly to his admonition. And yet
throughout the ensuing unease, Gordo never does appear in person 
except in Robyn's daydreams  leaving us wondering if it is all a red
herring. Then a letter in Gordo's signature red envelope lands in their
mailbox, with a cryptic send-off to Simon to "let bygones be bygones".
Simon downplays its significance, but Robyn is convinced that Simon is
hiding something.

Whereas the first act was about Gordo playing the typical psycho
stalker, Edgerton reserves the second act for unravelling just who
Simon is  and as you may expect, the answers are less than savoury.
Peeling back the affable charm on Simon's surface, we are led to
discover someone else altogether, so much so that we are forced to
re-examine our sympathies for the man in the first place, and by
extension, our contempt for Gordo's apparent sociopathic behaviour.
Edgerton tells the story from Robyn's perspective, not only because she
is as much in the dark about the man she married as us, but also for
the fact that, as Simon's façade falls apart, she alone becomes the
emotional core of the story and the only one we end up rooting for.

Although Robyn's neighbour and Simon's colleagues do pop up for a
couple of scenes here and there, this is pretty much a story that
stands on just three characters, and Edgerton brings Gordo back in the
last act to extract payback from the person whose arrogance and apathy
many years ago had set his life on an irreversible downward spiral.
There is a sharp lesson here on lies, misdirections and their
consequences, and instead of settling for a comfortable ending,
Edgerton opts for something much more unnerving that keeps you guessing
just what Gordo's motive is all this while. At no point does he settle
for conventional thrills, so those expecting a mano- a-mano between
Simon and Gordo are bound to be disappointed.

Yet those looking for a fine actors' showcase will be pleasantly
surprised, for Edgerton gives plenty of room for each one of his actors
to shine  including, we may add, himself. Bateman subverts his
Everyman likability as he transforms from a nice guy to a sinister
bully that has no qualms ruining other people's lives, and the actor
better known for his comedic roles turns in a fine dramatic performance
with heft and gravitas. Hall is his perfect complement, playing the
part of the kind and vulnerable wife with watchful intelligence and
quiet empathy. Edgerton is in great form himself as the creepy loner
sociopath, who earns our disgust and pity in equal measure as we
discover how much of a sad sack he is and what led him there in the
first place.

To use its very own metaphor, 'The Gift' is like a present within a
present whose pleasure lies not just in finding out what it truly is
but also in the process of unveiling it layer after layer. That may
come off as a drag for less patient audiences or those looking for
late-night cable movie thrills, but those willing to accept a slow-
burn psychological thriller that unfolds at its own measured pace will
find much to like about this well-crafted and well-acted package. It is
as assured and auspicious a debut for a first-time filmmaker as any,
and Edgerton proves to be both smart and savvy as actor-writer-
director in getting the best out of his actors as much as getting under
his audience's skin.
<|_=00=_|>
Yeah, this was a lot of fun. I mean, the story reminds me of many
others (most noticeably, Gone Girl and Side Effects) in that it's able
to turn its story in more ways than one. As a very straight- forward
thriller (the first half of the film) it works marvelously. Edgerton
really has such a confident control of the pacing and the tone he wants
the film to have, and when it switched direction, he's still able to
keep the audience in their toes. What's most impressive is that this
really is such a B-plot in many ways, but Edgerton goes further and
really develops a thoughtful morality tale. Just when the film seems
like it's going to go down the rabbit hole and not come back, he
reveals another aspect of the story that puts it al in perspective.
There are a few implausibilities (like someone else said, not sure if I
can buy that she would be unaware of how he was for such a long time)
but there are enough answers to such questions that are satisfactory
and don't damage the film as a whole.

The three leads are also so fantastic. Edgerton is perfect, and Bateman
also really surprising. Who knew the lead from Arrested Development
(although in retrospect his character never really stayed in caricature
mode really) had this in him? He has some really dramatic scenes that
blew me away. Rebecca Hall is such a great screen presence so her I'm
not surprised about at all. She's just great.

I think what's also really impressive about the film is that nothing
comes out of nowhere. Every turn you sort of have an inkling, and you
see all of the clues planted early. This may seem like a problem for
many ("i totally saw that coming") but for storytelling, it's what
works best in retrospect. The film at its core is really about the way
our past can have consequences not just for us but for others, and the
way it can also shape other people in ways you wouldn't expect. Simple,
but effective.
<|_=00=_|>
The 90's was the golden age of highly stylized stalker thrillers with
flicks like Basic Instinct, Single White Female and The Hand That Rocks
the Cradle, and the actor-turned-director Joel Edgerton hearkens back
to those films with his directorial debut The Gift. In The Gift, young
charismatic Simon runs into an old high school acquaintance named
Gordon, and after a painfully awkward conversation, they go their
separate ways. Simon's wife, Robyn, thinks it's just a chance
encounters while Simon wants nothing to do with "Gordo the Weirdo."
Gordon then slowly starts inserting himself into their lives and brings
to light secrets about Simon's life, and Robyn realizes that she
doesn't know who her husband really is. The thing that makes The Gift
so unpredictable is the ambiguity of the villain. Initially, we think
that Gordon is the villain since we seem him suddenly become too clingy
and start stalking the couple, but as the plot progresses, Gordon
reveals several secrets about Simon that make Simon seem like the true
villain. Each secret revealed about Gordon and Simon twists the plot
even further but not so much that it causes the film to meander through
its story. This is a very controlled movie. None of the suspense comes
from big chase sequences or any real action; it's the revelations about
the characters that keeps you on the edge of your seat. The Gift is a
surprisingly well-crafted and intense thriller film that feels like a
throwback to the best 90's stalker flicks.
<|_=00=_|>
"You may be done with the past but the past isn't done with you.", one
of the many creepy and subtly sinister lines out of Joel Edgerton's
brilliant directorial debut. The Gift is the definition of a sleeper
hit. It has all the right things going for it, a great cast, a great
script and the potential to be a future classic. What starts off as a
slow burn thriller, giving the audience enough exposè to make us really
connect with these characters and sympathize with every single one of
them then slowly turns into a new age Pacific Heights. The film pits
Simon and Robyn, two newlyweds that have just bought a house in Simon's
hometown. While out shopping, Simon runs into Gordo, a guy from his
high school days that is a bit off and at that moment, the film takes
off and we're given enough twists and turns to constitute this as
shocking to say the least. Actor and, now, director Joel Edgerton
knocks this film out of the park, making this a home run for it being
his directorial debut. Hell, if this was his tenth film, it'd be a home
run. Edgerton directs his screenplay and actors with such confidence,
you'd think Adrian Lynn directed it. The three leads in Jason Bateman,
Rebecca Hall and Joel Edgerton couldn't be more perfect. Bateman
delivers a career best performance, ditching his recent string of light
comedies and applying his condescending attitude towards the yuppie
entitlement in Simon. Rebecca Hall, who has yet to deliver a bad
performance in my eyes, makes this no exception. She's fantastic in
this film. Joel Edgerton also proves extremely eerie as Gordo and for
someone to pull off the perfect trifecta such as Edgerton, it puts him
in the same league as Ben Affleck. This is a fantastically twisted
potboiler film that needs to be seen. The Gift stands as single
handedly the best film of the summer and one of the very best of the
year.
