
Actually reviews are not supposed to be based on wishful thinking.

Nonetheless for those members who gave this a high rating more out of
frustration than anything else, I do feel your pain.

The original Bourne trilogy was not merely good, it was superb. As a
top reviewer here with some 1200 reviews under my belt I said more than
once that the original was the best spy trilogy I had ever seen and I
am unashamed of the fact that I have seen each film in that series four
or five times since original release. They are an adrenaline rush, the
perfect mix of story, form, and effect.

Even 2012's Bourne Legacy -- a feature where it was ever so clear that
Damon had been offered a fortune just to walk-on and smile at the
camera, but refused anyway -- was a solid movie, great script, held the
attention, and Renner did a great job.

However, now that I have seen Jason Bourne 2016, I cannot help but wish
that Damon had agreed to participate in Legacy, rather than be lured
back 4 years later for a part he clearly no longer likes, in a
production he would rather not be in.

I tend toward "purist" reviews, that is to say, I don't really care WHY
a film was made as much as I do about how entertaining is it to watch
...? 

(That said, I have to "assume" that Damon broke his vow and came back
simply for the cash. And Greengrass agreed to take hold of the camera
one more time only if he could get a writing credit too. Ugh!)

So, speaking of entertainment, there is almost none in this movie. The
script is a mess. Written by the director for the clear purpose of
showcasing his action and camera-work skills, there is no attempt to
build connection from the top.

The script is so bad that even viewers in love with the original
trilogy -- like this one -- have to keep reminding themselves who
Bourne is supposed to be, and what is supposed to motivate him.

(Not to mention major plot holes here and there. Am I the only one who
noticed that the most WANTED MAN IN America attempted to enter customs
under his own name with no advance certainty that the computer would be
"fixed" in time? Remember, from the second film in the series, this is
a man who "never guesses and never makes mistakes." Other than
accepting to do this film, that is.) 

A good film makes the viewer feel good. The scientists call it
endorphin production. This 120 minute endless chase, from the top of
the movie to the ending, merely produces a caffeine buzz and sets your
nerves on edge. Yes, Greengrass can use this production in his own
personal highlight reel to showcase his moving camera skills. But his
writing skills? Not so much.

Tommy Lee Jones delivers possibly the most superficial performance of
his excellent career and the money he was offered cannot begin to make
up for the indignity of the closeups.

Newcomer Alicia Vikander acquits herself well. Then again, she is a
newbie with a whole string of good movies ahead of her, career-wise,
whereas the actors in this film seemed more interested in taking the
money ... and running.

---------------ADDENDUM NOV 2017-------------

If you are curious to see the kind of film that JASON BOURNE (2016)
should have been in a perfect world -- or a parallel universe, or
whatever -- than have a quick peek at ATOMIC BLONDE 2017. Presumably
when you read this review in the far future, you can snag it on
streaming media or DVD or possibly even beamed directly into your
cortex. Theron, for the first 2/3 of the film, is the Bourne of old.
She is an agent with a mission and a purpose and a predisposition for
removing obstacles from her path with the same ease a gardener pulls
weeds from a flower bed. And the script is intelligent and purposeful.
Yes, she has more estrogen than the Bourne we are used to (well, a LOT
more, actually) but, other than that tiny discrepancy, ATOMIC BLONDE is
more a Bourne sequel than this soppy entry.
<|_=00=_|>
Lacklustre story line lacking intelligence, dialogue, and character
development. 

I am a big fan of the franchise and my expectations may have been too
high for this sequel. Was hoping for same kind of substance and kept
waiting for something impressively unexpected, like previous. Legacy
was a better film. Even fight scenes and car chases from all previous
had a different "feel" than typical action films, but formula made
these redundant and confusing, not fun like others. The predictable
plot had me thinking, hoping for intelligent twist that did not happen.
It's a good rental I suppose.
<|_=00=_|>
Any true fan of Jason Bourne knows Matt Damon said that the next Bourne
after Ultimatum should be named The Bourne Redundancy. He was right!
The story line is stupid and lazy. The directing is also lazy. The
special effects are good. Bourne is no longer a meticulous planner, his
actions are ridiculously reckless and would make you wonder WTH !!!!!
The technology used by the CIA is fantasy technology imagined by the
kind of people who don't know anything about technology or even
science, you would probably laugh at the programming language used by
the CIA in the first few minutes of the movie, and it only gets more
ridiculous from there. This movie also serves as a advertising tool for
some very wealthy and infamous businesses, and those scenes showing the
business names are so painfully long and awkward. The story line also
has to serve those special interests.Go see it and you'll know exactly
what I'm talking about. In general, don't waste your time, other
people's time, and money to see this piece of junk.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie made me want to leave after one hour, and kill myself after
2 hours. I am a huge Bourne fan I was very exited for Matt Damons
return to the Bourne franchise. Also there was fresh face of Alicia
Vikander and not so fresh face of Tommy Lee Jones and Vincent Cassel as
the bad guy so what can go wrong? Well it turns out if you have a
horrible script, plot that only a person who wears helmet indoors can
consider exiting you are left with the biggest disappointment in the
cinema this year.

Spoiler alert everybody! Jason Bourne walks for 2 hours, sometimes he
remembers things sometimes he doesn't - the end.

So to conclude : Do not see this movie! I had to watch the trilogy the
next morning just to get over the disappointment of the new Jason
Bourne.
<|_=00=_|>
The original Bourne trilogy of Identity, Supremacy and Ultimatum were
brilliant displays in effective storytelling and great action. Jason
Bourne, however, isn't quite as proficient in both of those areas. On
the one hand, it's action-packed to the brim, and provides for a hugely
entertaining watch, but on the other, it's a disappointment as far as
bringing yet another intriguing and truly thrilling mystery to life is
concerned.

Let's start on the bright side, however, with the action. Paul
Greengrass does yet another sterling job at directing some hugely
exciting action sequences (including a thrilling chase in Athens that
harks back to Ultimatum's Tangier chase), and in tandem with yet
another excellent performance by Matt Damon as Jason Bourne himself,
the action is definitely the best part of this film.

Where the story lacks, Jason Bourne more often than not gives you some
insane action to revel at. Sure, it's not the work of storytelling
geniuses, but if you're the sort of person who can turn their brain off
for two hours and watch wall-to-wall action and explosions, then this
film will have you in dreamland. It's not a Michael Bay movie, and
Greengrass' style lends a lot to making more vibrant action sequences,
but there's no doubt that fans of big action will love this film.

On the whole, I did enjoy this film, and I was able to recognise its
flaws and just watch it as a big blockbuster. However, I can't escape
feeling disappointed at the film's total failure to tell as intriguing
a story as the first three films in the series.

The enthralling mysteries and gradual revelations about Jason Bourne's
past were what really separated this series from any other spy
thriller. In this movie, however, everything felt a lot more generic,
with a much bigger emphasis on action than clever storytelling and
patient, gradual character and plot development. Unfortunately, it's
that that makes Jason Bourne look pale in comparison to the original
trilogy, and those who are expecting yet another engrossing and
intelligent thriller will certainly be disappointed.

That said, there are bright moments in the story too. It's not a
horrifically dull film, and there are a few details that relate right
the way back to The Bourne Identity. What's more is that Matt Damon,
Alicia Vikander and Tommy Lee Jones all put in very strong performances
to add a degree of gravitas to what is in truth a very clich√©d and
repetitive story, which was good to see.

Overall, I am disappointed by Jason Bourne, in that it doesn't manage
to tell such an enthralling and intelligent mystery as the series'
original trilogy, but its top-quality action and strong directing and
performances still allowed me to have a lot of fun for two hours.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen the other reviews of Jason Bourne and I am starting to
question my own judgement, maybe I am too biased to write a review for
this title. But I can't help it as I absolutely hated the movie. And I
hated it after I had low expectations for the latest title, since I
heard Tony Gilroy wasn't involved in the script. 

The story is atrocious, I realize that it is supposed to set the basics
for another 15 Bourne movies, but the story is so bad that they decided
to overcompensate for it with prolonged action scenes, which are just
terrible. It reeks of desperation to watch nothing happens for so long
periods, just throwing dust in the eyes of the viewers with effects and
low quality action. I realize that this goes beyond Ludlum books, but
Greengrass is pretty much willing to do anything to fill the movie,
other than to continue with the traditions of the original Bourne
series known for Ludlum's excellent story-telling and spy- craft
realism. 

The fight scenes, they're just terrible. Too fast camera shifting, even
more than previous Bourne series, leaves you thinking that those actors
are good for nothing amateurs who can't act a fight scene, so you need
to make sure the viewer never really sees it.

I loved the first 3 movies, even liked the Bourne legacy, and I adore
the books. But this movie is so bad, that it shouldn't be even put
anywhere near them. The acting is good, the story is bad and the
directing is just painful. 

And btw, when you're doing realism spy thrillers, don't make hacking
look like a freaking Pokemon hunt. It's just pathetic and unbelievable.
Go watch Mr. Robot and think again how hard would be to present the
"hacking" with at least proper interfaces instead of embarrassing
yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
How do you make Bourne boring? The original film is probably one of my
favourite films. This one however, I just found myself rolling my eyes
every few minutes especially during the first 30 minutes. After about
1.5 hours I had given up and was just waiting for it to finish.

When are these film makers going to stop it with the totally
unbelievable computer hacking rubbish? In one scene they execute a
program by typing "run predictive algorithm". In another scene, they
spot someone on a surveillance camera and the female character actually
says "enhance". Come on! How clich√©. What is this, the 1980's?? 

It isn't total and utter crap. It is as well made as the other Bourne
films, except for that annoying, erratic fight scene camera work that
seems to be in every action film at the moment, So you can't actually
see what is going on. It has some OK action scenes but they do nothing
to make it interesting. Nothing really happens. The plot is weak and
the film is just plain boring. And I'm a fan of the trilogy! (Not the
odd number 4 film which incidentally is better than this) 

Matt Damon is as good as he can be I suppose. Tommy Lee Jones, who I
like as an actor, doesn't really bring anything to the film because his
character is boring as well. I just can't help but feel they cashed in
and made another one without really caring if it was any good or not as
they knew everyone (me included) would go and watch it because all the
others are so good!
<|_=00=_|>
I am a big fan of the Bourne trilogy and was really looking forward to
this one. Disappointment would be an understatement. Bad story and bad
direction along with a really shaky camera to make it worse. Not sure
what Paul Greengrass was thinking when this movie was being made. I
guess this movie was made with just one thing in mind i.e. make as much
money as possible on the back of one of the most successful trilogies
ever made. Matt Damon was no where close to the Bourne we are used to
see. Tommy Lee Jones (one of my favourites by the way) did not really
put in much into his role. Alicia was OK'ish but I felt like she could
have done a lot better and she seemed too young for the role she was
playing. For the lack of a zero, I am giving this a 1 rating.
<|_=00=_|>
The biggest let down. I love the Bourne series including legacy which
was without Matt Damon. This movie is poorly thought out and has a weak
script which we all have seen and heard before. Camera work is what
really put me off - show me perspective, not in your face cameras with
flashing lights. The camera work is so poor at times that even the car
chase on the Vegas strip with tanks and RVs is less exciting and a
poorer construct than the slow little red car chase in Paris in Bourne
Identity. Tommy Lee Jones looks like 95 years old and the woman trying
to get his job looks like 25 !! How believable is that ? The only thing
good was the movie moves quite quickly from city to city - sometimes
without reason. Save your money and watch something else.
<|_=00=_|>
The Bourne franchise started with "The Bourne Identity" back in 2002,
continued with "The Bourne Supremacy" in 2004 followed by "The Bourne
Ultimatum" in 2007. I do not consider "The Bourne Legacy"(2012) part of
this franchise because Matt Damon didn't take part in it and because it
has much lower quality in script and filming. "The Bourne Identity"was
one of the best action movies I had seen at the time and it really made
an impression on me. The sequels were almost as good as the original,
although they didn't have the same vibe. I will not go into details
about this year's film since I don't want to spoil your fun. If you
enjoyed the previous "Bourne" movies you will find "Jason Bourne" at
least entertaining.

About the 2016 movie "Jason Bourne", it is an American movie directed
by Paul Greengrass(director of "The Bourne Supremacy" and "The Bourne
Ultimatum")based on a script by Greengrass and Cristopher Rouse, it had
a budget of $120.000.000 which definitely paid off in the movie
quality. The movie has a solid cast(Matt Damon, Tommy Lee Jones, Alicia
Vikander), good plot, not so good script, no clich√© lines, great
action/visual effects, it has common sense and it does not defy logic
like most action movies do. "Jason Bourne" definitely lives up to the
expectations. In this movie we have Jason Bourne knowing who he
actually is, cured of amnesia, and battling an even larger enemy than
before. There are car chases, well choreographed fight
scenes,shootouts,explosions and everything else you would want from an
action movie. Even though we are used to seeing Jason Bourne being
chased by a government agency we still love it. Unfortunately, this
movie has a weak script and plot holes, it is far from the quality of
the "Bourne" trilogy. "Jason Bourne" still is one of the best movies
released this year and I would confidently give it a 8.0/10. 

I have watched over 1200 movies and this one is for sure a good one. I
advise you to go watch "Jason Bourne", you sure will enjoy it! 

This review may be altered by the fact that I am a "Bourne" fan.
