
Perpetuating little white lies is part of everyday life and keeps
society ticking over. But to what point is it acceptable to massage an
ego with a dirty black lie. A real whopper. And is such a lie
perpetuated by love? Greed? Or the pursuit of personal glory? This is
the rather subtle sub-text behind the story of Florence Foster Jenkins.

Based on a true story, Florence Foster Jenkins tells the story of a
truly awful singer (Meryl Streep), cossetted in her closed world of a
1944 New York hotel and pampered by her husband St Clair Mayfield (Hugh
Grant), who is otherwise entwined with the sensuous Kathleen (Rebecca
Ferguson). Together with ex-actor Mayfield, the wealthy Florence is the
co-star of the show at her self-owned "Verdi Club" where she has a
non-speaking role enacting various 'tableau' scenes. But in the
interests of following her dreams she recruits the help of famous
singing instructor Carlo Edwards (the marvellous David Haig) and an
enthusiastic and personable young pianist Cosme McMoon (Simon Helberg,
"The Big Bang Theory"). Carlo is aware of what he is in for (he wants
to keep the arrangement 'on the quiet'); Cosme is not (to great comic
effect).

This classic re-telling of 'The Emperor's New Clothes' ultimately takes
us on a journey to a packed concert at the Carnegie Hall, where many of
the tickets have been given away to rowdy and drunk servicemen. 

It's impossible to describe a film as "delightful just delightful"
without hearing the velvety tones of Hugh Grant saying those words. But
that's what it is. A treat of moving and at times wildly funny
storytelling from director Stephen Frears ("Philomena", "The Queen")
that just works from beginning to end.

Meryl Streep is just glorious in the titular role, oozing charm. Those
UK readers will probably fondly remember the piano playing 'skills' of
the late, great comedian Les Dawson (google it for a youtube clip) who
had to be an absolutely brilliant pianist to be able to deliberately
play so badly. In a similar way, we know (from the likes of "Mamma
Mia") that Streep knows how to belt out a good tune, so it requires
some considerable skill to deliver Florence's songs as well (or as
badly) as she does. Bravo Ms Streep, Bravo!

And Hugh Grant is often quite unfairly criticized for playing Hugh
Grant in every movie (as if Tom Hanks and Harrison Ford are much
different?), but here he turns in a totally sterling performance. The
drivers behind Mayfield's character are never totally clear (and I
won't spoil that here), but in the final reel the motivating factor
becomes crystal clear, and Grant has never been better. (Bravo Mr
Grant, Bravo!).

To round off the accolades for the lead performances, Simon Helberg
turns in a genius comic performance as the goggle-eyed pianist, who
lights up every scene he's in and delivers his lines (e.g. one about a
naval encounter) with perfect comic timing. 

Shining again in a supporting role is Rebecca Ferguson ("Mission
Impossible: Rogue Nation") who once again is dazzling. Among the bright
young acting newcomers of the likes of Vikander and Rooney, Ferguson
(who is approaching her mid-30s) brings a level of sophisticated
glamour and maturity to the screen that is strongly reminiscent of the
great starlets of the 1940's and 50's like Kathrine Hepburn or Lana
Turner. She is fast becoming one of my favourite actresses. Also worthy
of note is Nina Arianda as gold- digging starlet Agnes Stark 
effectively playing (at least at first) the "little boy in the crowd"
in the Emperor's fable.

Written by TV-writer Nicholas Martin in his big-screen debut, the story
is slowly and subtly unwoven, only progressively revealing the plot
points in an intelligent manner. Other screenwriters take note: this is
how to do it.

Cinematography is by the great Danny Cohen ("The Danish Girl"; "Room")
and with the Production Design, Costuming and Special effects crew
1940's New York is vibrantly brought to life. 

While the film's leisurely pace might make the younger set fidgety,
this is a treat particularly for older viewers looking for a great
night out at the cinema. The film got a good old-fashioned round of
applause at my showing when the credits came up. "Delightful just
delightful". Go see it.

(Please visit http://bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical version of
this review and to comment with your thoughts. Thanks).
<|_=00=_|>
Genre labels shape your expectations of a movie but they are also
manipulated by promoters to influence audience response. Both
Marguerite (2016) and Florence Foster Jenkins (2016) are being sold as
"hilarious comedies" whereas in reality they both tell a sad story of
self-deception and mental frailty, albeit in funny ways. Marguerite is
a comedy of manners, while Florence is a tragi- comedy, the genre that
shows the sad truth behind the apparently ridiculous. Both films are
bio- pics, with one satirising vanity the other telling a tragic tale
about a mental illness that is displayed on an operatically grand
scale.

Unlike the fictitious Marguerite who is 'loosely based' on the real
person, Florence is closely based on the wealthy and generous arts
socialite Florence Foster Jenkins who came to public notoriety when she
hired Carnegie Hall for her operatic recitals in 1944. Both films (and
still available YouTube recordings) show the full force of how badly
the real Florence sang, but that's where the similarity ends. Early in
the film we learn that Florence (Meryl Streep) has defied medical
science by living well beyond the usual lifespan of a syphilis victim,
a disease she contracted on marrying when 18 years old. She endured
decades of archaic mercury and arsenic medication with progressive loss
of mental functions and chronic exhaustion. Her second marriage
remained celibate by mutual agreement and her husband (Hugh Grant) was
free to have affairs but was devotedly protective of Florence. The
cinematic impact of these facts change the film from a satire to a
study of pathos and tragedy as Florence is seriously unwell and singing
is the only thing keeping her alive.

While Marguerite amplifies the ridiculous as seen from the other side
of the Atlantic, Florence is an American-owned story and any ridicule
is tempered with compassion. The combined acting virtuosity of icons
Streep and Grant will most likely earn the film Academy nominations as
these timeless stars are superb in their parts and their chemistry
together is wonderful. Top production values are evident in the period
set and costumes, and the whole film has an elegant authenticity that
underscores the seriousness of mental degeneration, whether its on the
stage of Carnegie Hall or elsewhere. Audiences might leave cinemas
still chuckling at the singing of Marguerite and Florence, but many
will leave Florence with sympathy for her desperate desire to be
something that nature made impossible.
<|_=00=_|>
There's something rather wonderful about people who manage to do things
incredibly badly - William MacGonagall, the world's worst poet, and
Eddie the Eagle Edwards, the world's worst ski-jumper, spring to mind;
but Florence Foster Jenkins is in the pantheon as the world's worst
singer. I have a CD of the few recordings she made, and not the least
remarkable aspect of Meryl Streep's performance is that she superbly
captures La Jenkins' extraordinary singing voice. This, however, is
only one part of a beautiful performance, in which Streep gives us a
touchingly vulnerable Jenkins. I saw this film expecting to laugh - and
indeed there are some great comic moments. What I didn't expect,
however, was to find myself sympathising with the title character so
much, to the extent that I found myself rooting for her - not to give a
magnificent recital, but at least to BELIEVE that she had. Hugh Grant
plays Jenkins' sort-of husband (they never actually married in real
life, though the film implies that they did) and manager. It's a fine
performance, and he's lost none of his ease with comic scenes. He also
has some heartwarmingly touching scenes in which he gives Jenkins the
(platonic) love she is so desperate for, and when he tries to shield
her from the truth. Even so, I was never quite sure how to reconcile
this side of his character with the double-life he leads without
Jenkins' knowledge. Simon Helberg is excellent as Jenkins' much
put-upon accompanist, and Nina Arianda provides a good turn as a
gold-digger who displays some unexpected heart. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Surely only those with some knowledge of musical history and
consequently at least some love of music, or perhaps a penchant for
eccentricity like myself, will ever have heard of Florence Foster
Jenkins, reputedly the world's worst singer, so without a ready-made
audience why a biopic now, (two, if you count the new French film
"Marguerite")? Maybe someone somewhere saw in this tale of a deluded
grande dame a star vehicle for a talented actress of a certain age as
well as an audience-pleasing combination of comedy and pathos and
that's exactly what you get. No real knowledge of the subject is
necessary to enjoy Stephen Frears' hugely enjoyable biopic "Florence
Foster Jenkins" which combines comedy, pathos and a close to career
best performance from Meryl Streep, (who else), to terrific effect and
if you think Streep can play anything, in her sleep if necessary, pause
a moment. On a technical level she may be the most versatile actress in
the world but much too often she's been accused of failing to connect
on an emotional level. I've always felt her Margaret Thatcher a great
piece of mimicry but hardly worthy of a third Oscar and there are those
who will claim that her Florence Foster Jenkins is nothing more than a
shameless ploy for that elusive fourth Oscar. I will simply say that if
she is to win that fourth Oscar surely it has to be for this great
performance. Streep clicks on every level; this a tragic-comic
performance of the first water in which Meryl never puts a foot wrong
and yes, technically it's a marvel too with Streep doing her own
appallingly off-key singing, (no mean feat for an actress with a superb
voice). This isn't just the best thing she's done since "Doubt" but one
of the best things she's ever done.

Amazingly it isn't all a one-woman show; the big revelation here is
Hugh Grant as Jenkins' husband, the man who loves her, you might say
exploits her, and does his best to protect her. It's the least Hugh
Grant-like performance of his career and he's never been better.
Likewise "The Big Bang Theory's" Simon Helberg as Cosme McMoon,
Jenkins' accompanist, is outstanding in a difficult role. It's also
beautifully written by Nicholas Martin, looks great, (the period detail
is spot on), and is very well directed by Frears. As we head into the
silly season of superhero blockbusters and the kind of of films
designed to keep the kids quiet in the summer months this splendid
biography may be the last good movie we will see at our multiplexes for
months.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the most surprising film ever. You know it is about a woman who
can't sing for toffee but who hosts huge concerts to not exactly
appreciative audiences. Why on earth would this make for a compelling
film? The surprising thing is that cast, script and direction are
perfectly in tune with this compassionate biographical treatment of a
woman driven to be the musician she dreams she is. Knocked by paternal
disapproval, marital failure and physical illness, Florence 'thinks
positive' and takes action. She knows what it is to suffer and is
ready, at the drop of a hat, to do what she can to be of service to
others via her self declared life-passion 'music'. It is both a joy and
heart breaking to live in this woman's world. Meryl Streep is
absolutely perfect in this role and makes this difficult story
heart-rending and laugh out loud all at once. Definite go see!
<|_=00=_|>
A kind of 'companion piece' to THE KING'S SPEECH. After the monarch who
couldn't speak publicly we are invited to meet the soprano who should
never have sung to an audience. This is the more-or-less true story of
the 1940s New York socialite who seemingly did not know how
monumentally awful her singing was. Florence Foster Jenkins was a Woman
of Substance in more than one sense: a mega-rich heiress, built like a
leaking sandbag and possessed of an immense ego.

It's a gift of a part, and Meryl Streep goes for it at full throttle,
combining elements of Ethel Merman, Hyacinth Bucket and Nellie Melba to
stupendous effect. The supporting cast are also given juicy roles to
wallow in and, boy, do they wallow! Hugh Grant's lightweight shtick
works perfectly for Florence's second husband, who openly keeps a
mistress but dotes like a puppy-dog on his ailing wife, indulging her
musical delusion with a passion that fully matches her own. David Haig
plays Florence's vocal coach in the manner of a pantomime horse.

Simon Helberg steals many a scene as her gay accompanist who finds it
hard to keep a straight face but comes to be caught up in the typhoon
of Florence's enormous self-belief. There are some delicious cameos
among the members of the New York elite who support the fantasy with
varying degrees of sincerity. The finale, Florence's sell-out concert
at Carnegie Hall is a comedic if not exactly a musical triumph.

This is a slight story, crisply scripted, elegantly photographed and
stylishly directed (by Stephen Frears). Streep steams through it like
an ocean liner  there's more than a hint of Queen Mary the 'former
first lady' as well as Queen Mary the excessively luxurious vessel. Yet
another Oscar could easily come her way. In Dustin Hoffman's QUARTET I
felt slightly cheated that the principals never actually sang. Here you
look forward with a kind of awed dread to the moments when the fat lady
sings!
<|_=00=_|>
12 May 2016 Second Film of Choice at The Plaza Dorchester Tonight -
Florence Foster Jenkins. I was very much looking forward to this film,
and it did not disappoint. It is the story of Florence, a woman devoted
to music and passionate about singing. Unfortunately she cannot sing.
Money however seems to buy you what you want and Florence hires the
best teacher and along with a pianist (played by Howard from The Big
Bang Theory, and quite wonderfully too) strives for her dreams in a
very single minded fashion. Streep is the most versatile and
accomplished actress of her generation and as we have seen many times
before can turn her hand to practically anything. Hugh Grant who
usually bumbles his way through a film with his Britishness and
buffoonery came across as a tender and caring man who loved his wife
deeply, and would do anything to prevent her from being hurt. Along
with a simply spiffing score this film was a delight from start to
finish, all the more poignant because it was based on a true story.
<|_=00=_|>
Florence Foster Jenkins is a wealthy New Yorker who lives for music.
Her husband StClair enthusiastically indulges her passion: she sings
for the musical appreciation club she has created, and they all love
her. The only thing is, well, she's not very good. But she's harmless
and kind and tries her very best, so everyone (including her new
pianist accompanist, Cosme McMoon) goes along with her. And she doesn't
seem to be aware (or worried) about the fact that St Clair spends very
night at another apartment with his mistress.

Based on a real person, this film tells the story of a woman whose
talent so woefully falls short of her ambition that the result is
funny, yet she would be mortified if she realised that is what people
actually thought. StClair cushions her from the unkindness which would
otherwise come her way: this protects her, but also encourages her to
push her (lack of) talent further, to the extent that she arranges a
concert at Carnegie Hall which will inevitably expose her to press
hostility. This is the dramatic heart of the film, the story of which
is otherwise relatively slight. Having said that, there is a similarity
between this film and Eddie The Eagle  superficially they appear to
celebrate mediocrity but they actually celebrate the indomitability of
the human spirit (see also Ed Wood).

We already knew Meryl Streep can sing: here we found out how
brilliantly she can't sing, too: this is an hilarious portrait of
someone who specialises in being half a tone out just when she needed
not to be, who knows what technique ought to be but can't actually
manage it (but thinks she can). This is Les Dawson piano playing,
parlayed into operetta. She makes Florence wonderfully human. I also
loved Simon Helberg, going from Beatle-wigged nerd in The Big Band
Theory to brilliantined accompanist with a very funny line in reaction
shots. Oh, and the lad is not bad on piano either. There are some nice
turns in the supporting cast, especially Nina Arianda as common-as-muck
nouveau riche Brooklyn wife Agnes Stark.

But, for me, this film belonged to Hugh Grant. His quasi-aristocratic
StClair, gracefully (for the most part) balancing his support for
Florence with his parallel life with mistress Kathleen, it is a nuanced
performance of humour, skill and kindness  I was never in doubt about
how truly he loved Florence.

This was an excellent film.
<|_=00=_|>
Florence Foster Jenkins, to put it mildly, was a notoriously inept
singer, often screeching her way through songs (a prime example being
Queen of the Night's "Der Halle Rache") with no ear for intonation,
tone, meaning of song/text or rhythm.

It must not have been easy making Foster Jenkins somebody interesting
or relatable, but 'Florence Foster Jenkins' manages to do so
brilliantly. 'Florence Foster Jenkins' also does a much better job than
most biopics to sticking close to the facts, having regard for
historical accuracy, not leaving things rose-tinted and not having
characters that are basically come and go vignettes.

Admittedly, some characters are more developed and interesting than
others and some have little screen time. However, this didn't come over
as a huge problem in 'Florence Foster Jenkins' because everything else
was so successful. The 40s period detail is evocative, sumptuous and
extremely beautiful to look at, and the film is exquisitely
photographed and tightly edited.

The music is magnificent, with a score from Alexandre Desplat that fits
superbly and sounds great on its own, Desplat's distinctively hypnotic
style immediately recognisable. Also striking was how 'Florence Foster
Jenkins' combined humour and pathos, it does so perfectly and both
elements are brilliantly executed. The comedy is genuinely hilarious
and the pathos masterfully moving. The direction does really well in
making a potentially dull story dramatically engaging, warm and
uplifting, one also admires Foster Jenkins' determination.

Best of all is the acting. Meryl Streep's performance in the title role
is a triumph, making her a compellingly real character and succeeds in
intentionally singing badly despite that in real life Streep is a far
better singer (almost anybody is, well apart from the TV talent show
rejects). Hugh Grant's performance here is one of his best, perhaps his
best since 'About a Boy' and he has rarely been more nuanced or
sympathetic in a role very much removed from his usual romantic-comedy
roles. Simon Helberg's supporting turn is spot-on, instead of being
annoying or too effeminate Helberg is hilarious, suitably camp and
loyal.

Rebecca Ferguson similarly excels, David Haig relishes his deliciously
shady and not too pantomimic role and Nina Arianda brings charm to a
potentially shallow and irritating character. These roles are difficult
to pull off but they are pulled off quite adeptly.

In summary, entirely captivating. 10/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
The film is based on the true story of the New York socialite Florence
Foster Jenkins. In 1944 she hired Carnegie Hall to perform as a soprano
soloist. With no musical ability whatsoever but a large inheritance to
enable her to indulge her love of performing, Florence Foster Jenkins
becomes an unwitting musical clown which sustains the comedy throughout
the film. The character is played with gentle comic affection by Meryl
Streep.

Hugh Grant is well cast as Florence's doting and enabling husband St
Clair Bayfield. It is to Grant's charisma and acting ability that he is
able to portray an adulterous scoundrel who is milking his wife's
inheritance and turn it into a devoted and loving husband. His
brilliant charm offensive is one of the remarkable things about the
movie.

Hazel Finn
